N
Schools and the National Recreation

Movement

of America, Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick, himself worked in a public school system at the time he

became president of the Association. In his capacity as president, he spent much time address-
ing conventions of teachers and educators on the subject of play and playgrounds.

Joseph Lee, LL.D., Harvard, for twenty years the second president of the National Recreation
Association, served for about ten years as a member of the Boston School Board. The subject he
chose for perhaps his greatest book was “Play in Education.”

One of the first tasks of the Playground Association of America, when it was formed twenty-five
years ago, was to begin the preparation of a Normal Course in Play for normal schools and colleges
and universities. Professor Clark W. Hetherington, the Chairman of the Committee on the Normal
Course in Play, travelled for one year under the auspices of the Association to help educational insti-
tutions in training teachers for leadership in play. .

Representatives of very many school boards asked in writing for continuous help from the" dis—t
trict field workers of the Association in keeping in touch with what other school systems and other
groups in other cities were doing in the field of play and recreation and such service has been given
school boards for many years.

Many organizations under the leadership of Dr. Philander P. Claxton, then United States Com-
missioner of Education, asked the Association to campaign for state laws making physical education
in the schools compulsory. This task was accepted and carried through. Dana Caulkins and former
Governor Brumbaugh of Pennsylvania gave their full time for a period to this project. Later james
Edward Rogers of the Association staff has helped to clear information between the state physical edu-
cation offices. '

Practically all the departments of the Association have been called upon to give service to the
school men of the United States,—music, drama, games, and other sections as well. In order that
all the Association’s service to. school leaders may be more effective, the full time of one of its able
and experienced workers, Eugene T. Lies, is now being given for two years to a study of play and
recreation in school systems.

School men are members of the Association. School men have helped to make the recreation
movement what it is. The Association has always worked closely with the National Education Asso-
ciation and with representatives of the United States Office of Education. Much of the time of one
staff worker, John W. Faust, has been given to the Congress of Parent—Teachers Associations, which,
of course, is closely tied up to the schools.

It is because the Association leaders believe so profoundly that all the facilities of the schools
should be utilized for play and recreation and for the life of the people that the Association is put-
ting forth every effort to make its service to the schools of America effective. Of course this does
not mean that the Association will not continue as before to give equal service to those whose con-
cern is in recreation in the home, the church, under the recreation commission, under the park board,
and in private groups. Play and recreation in the school has some contribution to make to recreation
in practically every other agency. So much of modern life is free for recreation that it is important
that the full strength of all agencies be utilized and that the experience of each group be available
for all groups.

The Association itself in a very large part of its work is an educational institution—a cooper-
ative group in which cities go to school to each other, to learn from each other’s experience through the

Association as their agent. The leaders of the Association have always visualized their task as
largely educational. '

THE first president of the National Recreation Association, then called the Playground Association

HOWARD BRAUCHER
309

September Days

Courtesy Eastern Division U. S. Farcst Service

"Give me a crisp September morning tor a tramp—
one of those electric mornings after the first great
change in the atmosphere that comes with the break—
ing of summer's backbone. It may be toward the last
of September, or it may be at the very beginning of
the month—seasons differ,- but some time during

310

l

September will come the First ideal morning to put on
one's walking shoes and to start off on an all-day's
tramp. Nothing less would appease that keen craving
in your" blood. The miles must ring beneath your
walking stick. It is a joy just to leave them behind
you."—]ames Buckham

 

 

Recreation Department, ll'r'nston-Salem, N. C.

~ School Play

By Charles F. Smith

Director of Scouting, Teachers College, Columbia University

SUCCESSFUL teacher
A must have a thorough

understanding of her
appointed subject, but aca-
demic superiority alone is not
sufficient to reach the hearts
of children. A teacher’s social
qualities more largely influence
character than does didactic learning. The teacher
who would measure up to these standards should
ask herself this question: “Where can I find a
better opportunity to use and develop companion-
ableness and sociability than. by playing in the
classroom or on the playground?”

Many teachers in small schools who are called
upon occasionally to act as play leaders feel diffr-
dent about the undertaking because they have not
had the advantage of thorough training in recrea-
tional leadership. For the benefit of such indi-
viduals it is well to have descriptions of games
which draw upon experience to point out circum-
stances and conditions which are liable to occur
to the confusion of beginners and 'ways to avoid
them. It should be reassuring to untrained play
leaders to know that the National Recreation
Association, through its Department of Corre-
spondence Consultation, will assist teachers who
submit their problems.

Mr. Smith, author of "Games and
Recreational Methods," has per-

mitted the National Recreation As-

sociation to publish these extracts
From a chapter of a book on games
soon to be published.

 

Under no circumstances is a
teacher advised to conduct
classroom recreation single-
handed. Why should she
when she has a roomful of
potential helpers? Willing as
they may be, however, they
cannot operate efficiently with-
out training and organization. The following sug-
gested outline for systematizing a classroom is
easy to operate. .

Classroom Recreational Organization

Row Groups. No time need be consumed in
the classroom in selecting teams or choosing sides,
as each row may act as a unit.

Row Captains. Each row may select its own
permanent captain or game leader.

Record Keepers. Each captain may select one
person in his row to act as his assistant and keep
team records.

Property M on. One responsible worker in each
row may take charge of the game equipment.

O§icers’ C onferences. The teacher should meet
with the Row Captains about once a month to plan
programs, coach the leaders and discuss current
problems. The teacher should establish intimate
informal relationships with this advisory board.

311

312 SCHOOL PLAY

Appropriate Games. Mental recreation in the
form of games has a legitimate place in the school-
room as a supplementary means of teaching sub-
ject-matter, but the necessary physical recreation
comes only through physical activity. Very active
and hilarious games which would disturb other
classes should be avoided. It is a mistake, how-
ever, to select games in which children feel an
undue restraint because they cannot express the
joy they feel; and such games have the further
ill effect of soon destroying
children’s spontaneity and en-
thusiasm for schoolroom play.

Misrepresentation Destroys
Interest. Games should never
be paraded under false colors.
To illustrate, a teacher might
say, “We will now play
Schoolroom Basket Ball, which
I am sure you will like,” and
then proceed to explain a
simple bean bag relay, concluding with dropping
the bag into a basket. The children who know
basket ball immediately feel that their teacher is
trying to fool them, as they put it, and they usually
become prejudiced against the game.

Rainy Day Games. Wherever possible physical
games which bring the entire body into action
should be played without unnatural restriction, but
games of the less active physical type have an in-
disputable place in the schoolroom on occasion, es-
pecially on rainy days during long noon periods.
This is the time to use paper and pencil games,
tricks and puzzles which will engage the time of
those who wish to play without annoyance to the
teacher and pupils who wish to study.

IV by Play in the Schoolroom? How many chil-
dren can maintain good posture, concentrate in-
tensely, abstain from whispering and other social
communications throughout an entire day without
physical and mental strain, particularly on a
gloomy rainy day? Why does the nervous sys-
tem reach the breaking point at the end of the day,
as demonstrated by the increased tendency of
children at that time to communicate, handle books
and pencils needlessly, slump in their seats and
quite generally manifest restlessness. Then, too,
why are these things more annoying to the teacher
later in the afternoon. The nature of these dis-
turbances is as self-evident as the remedy.

Physical Activity a Remedy for Restlessness.
\Vhen the class shows evidence of becoming un-
ruly, let the teacher try as little as five minutes of
physical activity with keen competition and laugh-

'\

clusion of al

Leadership

Careful preparation of program and
equipment—a logical sequence of
activity—a clear but brief explanation
of the games—encouragement of the
play spirit—the deveIOpment of lead-
ership amon the players, and the in-

cl—these are a few of the
elements of good leadership which
make for success in the game program.

ter, and the proverbial “blowing off of steam”
will be accomplished for both herself and pupils.
The time thus spent, in addition to clearing the
mental atmosphere of the classroom, gives the
teacher an opportunity to enter the environment
of the children so that they think of her as an
approachable being sympathetic toward their ideas
of work and play.

The following suggestions for teaching active

o games should prove helpful:

Attitude of Teacher
While Leading Play

1. Create play spirit by ap-
pearing enthusiastic and happy
during the play period. Chil—
dren dislike an unhappy, pes-
simistic, negative play leader
whose commands are a series
of “don’ts.”

2. Use a pleasing. yet hrm
tone of voice, without being dictatorial. \Vhy
want to play games “by the numbers,” as soldiers
are drilled?

3. When explaining an unfamiliar game, use
notes and employ terms understood by all.

4. Elucidate the explanation of team games step
by step by actual demonstration, using one team
to execute the action immediately following the
instruction. In other words, make the explana-
tion a “talkie.”

5. \Vhen the explanations are misunderstood,
let it appear that the explanation was not suffi-
ciently clear, rather than blame the players. An-
swer necessary questions courteously, but do not
encourage questions. g

6. \Vhy blame children when they make mis-
takes? They usually do their best.

7. Permit and encourage the players to assist
in planning the program. They participate more
wholeheartedly when they feel they had a part in
preparing the program.

8. Self-control and good sportsmanship need
not be expected unless the example is set by the
leader.

9. Either make capital of mistakes or overlook
them. Appreciate humorous situations. Laugh at
funny actions, always making it clear that the
individual is not being laughed at. Laugh with
the class. Everybody enjoys a joke without a
sting.

10. Train and use as assistants those who dis-
play ability, including even younger children. It
is ideal to let all pupils take turns in leading, but

SCHOOL PLAY 313

practically it saves time
and increases efficiency
to train those who have
native ability.

Game Technique

1. In a crowded room
let alternate rows com-
pete. Then let the win-
ners of the “odds” com-
pete against the winners
of the “evens” to select
the “Grand Champion
Row.”

2. Provide as much in-
dividual action as possi-
ble by using the seat-
shifting method. For
example, in blackboard
games let the pupil in the
first seat run to the board while the remaining
pupils each shift one seat forward, and the first
pupil, on his return, takes the last seat. In run-
ning games let the first runner start from the last
seat, while the others shift back one seat.

In many relay races one or more players can
be permitted to run twice to compensate for absen-
tees or shortages. When this is not practicable
use extras as assistants, umpires, judges, score-
keepers, time keepers, etc. To develop esprit de
corps among regular teams it is unwise to ask a
player to leave his own and join another row, thus
competing against his regular teammates.

Recess Program Making

Before selecting games for recess program, the
leader might ask himself:

1. Will the activity require more time than the
period permits?

2. Does it have suf’hcient range to be playable
by players of varying ages and abilities?

3. Does it engage all of the players practically
all of the time?

4. Is it seasonable?

5. Is it so intense that the players may become
overheated ? '

6. Is it so inactive that players may get cold
while waiting for their turns?

7. Will it succeed under boy or girl leadership
with but little adult supervision?

8. Is it so rough that players may tear or ruin
clothing?

9. Is it a game of sufficient elasticity so that
players may enter or leave at will?

 

Many school grounds in our large cities provide much needed
space for recess and after-school play and vacation playgrounds.

Over-Supervision. If very simple games of
low organization are selected for the recess period,
there will be less tendency toward over-supervi-
sion. The leader of free play periods should be
reminded that children should be given oppor-
tunity to develop initiative through wholesome
recreation of their own choosing.

Over-Organization and Precision. The leader
whose experiencehas been limited to schoolroom
or indoor party games of the less physically active
type must change tactics when leading recreation
on the playgrounds. Here one of the principal
factors of success is vigorous and continuous play.
Sufficient rest during the short recess period is
provided by forming and reforming teams and
giving necessary explanations. New recess games
should be explained briefly by the demonstrational
method and carried on with all possible speed,
every word of unnecessary discussion being
omitted. To make the most of the short time, the
instructor should, with enthusiasm and gusto, con-
stantly stimulate the players to greater physical
effort together with all consistent speed. There
is no intention to discourage the organization—
minded classroom teacher whom we wish to com-
mend, but it must be considered that children may
not at recess time enjoy the more formal type of
highly organized games which in the classroom

or gymnasium may stir them to enthusiasm be-
fitting the occasion.

Secure the C onfidence of Children. The inex-
perienced teacher who plays with children during
recess periods may be shocked at some of their
impulsive remarks and actions. This should not

314 SCHOOL PLAY

prove alarming, for when allowed freedom of
expression or when under tense conditions, chil-
dren reveal their true selves and imitate their
elders. When the teacher catches children off-
guard, this, if ever, is the time to exercise forbear-
ance, appreciate the situation, and rebuke them
quietly and reasonably whenever the offense is
serious. Be a companion rather than a policeman.

An ideal attitude of mind conducive to the suc-
cess of a classroom reacher in the conduct of re-
cess periods has been well defined by Henry S.
Curtis in “Recreation for Teachers.” Dr. Curtis
says, in part:

“It is also necessary that the teacher should love
those things that children ought to love, and do
those things that children ought to do. The
teacher with an enthusiasm. for outdoor life will
be, on that account, a more wholesome model to
set before children. She will be more popular
and more c0pied.

“Teachers as a body should resist any tendency
to place the organization of play,.e5pecially at
recess times, under physical directors. The teacher
who can play with her children should find the
recess no less relief than they.”

Games of higher organization which boys and
girls generally prefer require a longer play period.
Games suitable for such play are quite numerous,
but those under Ball Games are most desirable.
\Vherever possible athletic games should be given
preference.

Leadership Develops Organisation. The differ-
ence between two school recreation or recess
periods,—one in which all are enjoying worth-
while games, and the other which shows the
majority restlessly idle—supplies another testi-
monial for well-conducted leadership. \Vhere
there is efficient leadership there is organization.
The teacher or
principal con-
fronted for the
first time by
th e organiza-
tion of a recess
period need not
hesitate on that
account, for
s u c h . a stu-
dents’ organi-
zation can be
effected with
surprising ease
a n d simplic-

1t . ‘ '
y Courtesy Vacation Playgrounds, Board of Education, New York City

In free play perlods children need only a “starter” from
the play leader. Their own Initiative will do the rest.

 

Student Cooperation. To secure student co-
operation in recess organization it has been found
expedient to allow students to elect their own cap-
tains with power to recall them at the end of one
month. This month becomes a trial period dur-
ing which the captains so selected are systemati-
cally coached by teachers; and the invariable re-
sult is success, whether or not the teachers so
engaged have themselves had previous expert
training in physical education.

Captain System a Success. Conclusive evidence
of the success of the “Captain System,” as con-
ducted in the Detroit Public Schools, may be
found in “Health by Stunts,” Pearl and Brown.
Additional proof of the leadership ability of boys
and girls is furnished by the patrol system of the
Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts. Admitting the merits
of Scouting’s Troop and Patrol System, certainly
our school teachers throughout the country have
the ability to produce results that are equally
praiseworthy. W'hen considering the success of
the organization cited we must not overlook the
most important factors which contribute so largely
to their success, namely: (a) a definite program,
(b) just enough, and not too much, adult super-
vision, and (c) graded training courses for leaders.

For generations we have recognized the play
leadership ability of boys, but we have been
rather slow to appreciate that trained girl leaders
are equally successful. And, why not? 'A precise
statement of this apparent fact is found in “Health
by Stunts”:

“The method used so successfully with the
boys,—that of introducing and teaching the se-
lected activities by means of the captain and squad
system,—was adopted for the Detroit girls also.
The leaders are chosen and sent to regular train-
ing meetings and then given the reSponsibility of
carrying o u t
the program
just as the boys
are. There was
some d o u b t
about finding
in girls of this
e l e m e n t a r y
school age, the
quality of lead-
ership, and the
results w e r e
therefore a ll
the more en-
couraging, for
t h e y showed

SCHOOL PLAY 315

that they could rise’to the occasion equally as well
as the boys. The deve10pment of leadership initia-
tive, and self-confidence in the girls who are to
have the tremendously increased responsibilities
that women must carry in another generation is
surely of vast importance. If they can be en—
couraged to think, judge, and act on their own
responsibility, they gain an asset that should prove
of great future value.”

Training Boy and Girl Leaders

1. Establish an official organization, such as,
Play Leaders’

Club, which is
recognized by the
entire school.

2. A Leaders’
Club could afford
three adult advis-
ers, each respon-
sible for one of
three periods,—

A. Recess pe-
riods d u r i n g
school hours

B. The period
between morning
and afternoon ses-
sions

C. The period
immediately after
school

3. Play leaders
may be recog-
nized and encour—
aged by the award
of a distinct in-
signia such as an
arm band or rib-
bon.

4. Meetings called for the express purpose of
training leaders, should be held regularly through-
out the year, and quite frequently at the begin-
ning, preferably once a week.

5. In the early stages of training, leaders need
more encouragement than criticism. Later on
criticism will be accepted in the spirit in which
it is given.

6. The program for a leaders’ training meeting
may consist of three parts:

Part I—Very brief discussion of business
matters

Part II—Brief check-up on games and contests
conducted since last meeting

Part III—Greater portion of meeting devoted
to actual practice and coaching in games to be
played during next period of days or weeks

7. The entire school might adopt a Code of
Sportsmanship, which should be stressed and ex-
plained to make effective the important objective
of character training.

Suggestions for Code of Sportsmanship

_1. Play fair,.and square.
2. Play hard to the end of the game. Be cheer-
ful, don’t quit in the middle of a game just

 

From children’s sand play to ball games for
older boys. A typical scene on a school playground.

because things seem to go wrong.

3. Never lose your temper, even though appar-
ently wronged.

4-. Be loyal to your team and your captain.

5. Respect all officials, even though their deci-
sions are against you.

6. Never show disappointment.
the Winner.

7. Win or lose, have a lot of fun.

8. Victory by deceit is loss of ’character.

Since one of the first steps in character training
is the deve10pment of ability to differentiate be-
tween right and wrong, it is very important for
each school to adopt its own code of sportsman-

Congratulate

316 SCHOOL

ship, upon which teachers can base their teaching
and preaching.

Below is a suggested “Leader Ask Yourself”
list of questionsused by a Leaders’ Club in the
Speyer School, of Teachers College, Columbia
University:

LEADER—Ask
Yourself

"1. Do I know
exactly what I want
my class to do at
each moment when
I am in charge?

“2. Is my class
organized so that each boy is responsible for some
particular thing in each activity?

“3. In what ways is Speyer better because I am
here? Because my class is here?

“4. Do I set the pattern for my class?

“a. Am I obedient?

“b. Do I do my work a little better than
I am required to do it?

“c. Do I always play fair?

“d. Do I ever nurse a grudge?

“e. Do I ever threaten the fellows?

“f. Do I help the one who tries and fails?

“g. Do I try to help all the others, even
the most successful ones, to improve on
their own records?

“h. Do I keep my mouth shut when some
one else is speaking?

“5. Can my class manage its own affairs in an
orderly manner without help of some older
person ?

“6. In exactly what ways is my class cooperat-
ing with other classes to maintain and improve
school spirit?

“7. Am I a leader?”

spread. Not only leaders

A Few Typical Games

The following games are typical of the many
games available through game books which have
been published:

Holding the Line

20 to 100 Boys Rough Variation of
Pom Pom Pull Att'ay

This is a team variety of Pom Pom Pull Away,
in which players are held instead of being
tagged. It is popular during football season, but
is recommended only when boys are appropriately
dressed in football or roughing clothes. It is
more suitable for after school play than for short

Grades 5 to 8

The development of pupil leadership is becoming wide-
ip in games and other playground
activities, but junior leadership in safety projects and self

government is making progress, as participation for all, not
only in activities but, as far as possiblei‘in their planning

and management, gains recognition as t

 

PLA Y

recess periods, as it requires even sides and does
not permit players to leave and enter at will.

The playing held is marked out the same as in
Pull Away. The players are divided into two
teams of equal number. One team lines up across
the center of the field and the other lines up behind
one of the goal
lines. At the sig-
nal the individual
members of the
team behind the
goal line charge
across the field in
an attempt to reach
the Opposite goal
within thirty seconds. The players in the center
of the held rush forward to meet them, endeavor-
ing by catching and holding to prevent them from
reaching their goal within the allotted thirty sec-
onds. Time is called and the teams change places.
At the end of an even number of innings the
team with the greater total of players who have
reached their goal within thirty seconds, wins.

Notes for Leaders. The person who acts as
timekeeper may also keep score.

Two or three boys sometimes unite and concen-
trate upon the capture of some star player who
is their hero. If for this or any other reason it
becomes necessary to modify the element of
roughness, it may be done by forbidding more
than one player to hold an opponent.

Twelve O’Clock Midnight

Grades 1 to S 8 to 16 Boys and Girls
Dramatic Tag Game

This game, which is also called Fox and Chick-
ens, will be recognized as a variation of Lion
Hunt. It is designed for children in the lower
grades. Until they learn it well it requires adult
leadership.

One player is chosen as Fox, and stationed in the
Foxes’ den,—a circle large enough to surround
all the players. The other children are Chickens
and choose their leader, or 'Mother Hen, who
makes a chicken coop (circle drawn on the
ground) large enough to contain her entire brood.
The two circles should be drawn about thirty feet
apart.

The Mother Hen starts the game by leading
her family, all holding hands toward the Foxes’
den. She stops every five or six feet and asks,
“\V hat time is it, Fox ?” He replies, naming any
hour but twelve, midnight. The Mother Hen
leads her brood still nearer and repeats the ques-
tion. Finally, when the chickens are quite near,

e desirable goal.

SCHOOL PLAY 317

the Fox suddenly replies, “Twelve o’clock, mid-
night,” and chases them. They scatter and run
for the chicken coop. All chickens tagged by the
Fox before they reach their chicken coop must go
with him to his den and help capture the remain-
ing chickens. The last chicken caught becomes
the Mother Hen and the former Mother Hen be-
comes the Fox.

Notes for Teachers. The dramatic possibilities
of this game should not be overlooked. The
Mother Hen may be coached to call her brood by
clucking while the chicks pitter-patter along and
respond by peeping.

The Fox must be coached to be a good sport
and give the chickens a fair chance to escape,
i. e., call “Midnight” and Open chase before they

get too close to him.

Stand Wall Ball

Grades 5 to 8 6 to 16 Boys Low Organization
Equipment: One Tennis or Similar Rubber Ball

This variation of Spud is a popular after school
game among older boys. It requires a wall or
very high fence and a soft rubber or tennis ball.

The players station themselves in front of the
wall at any distance they may choose. One of the
players, the Thrower, throws the ball against the
wall between two real or imaginary lines parallel
to the ground. As the ball hits the wall he calls
the name or number of one of the players, who
must catch the ball either on a Hy or first bounce.
The others try to block him just as football play-
ers block each other from receiving a forward
pass, but they are forbidden to touch the ball.
The Thrower continues, each time calling a name,
until one player fails to catch the ball. All play-
ers then scatter and the one who failed calls,
“Stand,” and tries to hit a player with the ball,
just as in Spud. If he fails, one spud is scored
against him; if he succeeds the throwing continues
until a second player fails, and so on.

Stump the Leader

Grades 4 to 8
6 to 16 Boys and Girls
Low Organisation

Even so simple a game
as Follow the Leader can
be much improved by just
a little adult guidance. As
usually played, Follow the
Leader provides little op-
portunity for anyone but
the recognized leader of a
group to show his superior

tical help.

For Teachers

abilities. In Stump the Leader everybody has a
chance.

One of the less skillful players should be chosen
for the first leader. He starts the game by dem-
onstrating the most difficult stunt he can perform.
He then stands by while the others try it, sending
those who fail to the end of the line. The second
player in line then tries to “stump” the leader by
performing a feat which he thinks the leader can-
not duplicate. If the leader succeeds, the stumper,
having failed to outdo the leader, goes to the end
of the line. If the leader fails he goes to the end
of the line, and the stumper becomes the new
leader.

Red Light

Grades 1 to 6 Low Organization

10 to 40 Boys and Girls

One player, who is chosen to be It, stands at
the extreme end of the field or gymnasium with
his back to the center. All other players are
grouped at the Opposite end. The one who is It
counts up to ten as rapidly but as clearly as pos-
sible, then shouts “Red Light” and turns around
quickly. While he is counting, the other players
are running toward him, but as soon as he says
“Red Light” they must st0p at once and must not
move while he is looking at them. If he should
see a player moving, he sends him back to the
starting line to begin again. Then he turns around
again and the game proceeds as before. The first
player who reaches the goal line on which the one
who is It is standing, wins the game, and may be
It the next time.

The game is a variation of “Ten Steps” in
which game the players are supposed to go some-
where and hide, and it can be played either on the
playground or in the gymnasium. It gives prac-
tice in quick action and quick muscular control;
it encourages timid children to take chances; and
it affords continuous exercise.

Center Catch Ball

7th Grade through High
School Equipment, 1 Basket

For the aid of the teacher and other workers Bag]
with children untrained in play leadership, the
National Recreation Association has prepared
a number of ublications containing very prac-
mong these are "School Play"

(free), a pamphlet of elementar information-

"Games and Play for School

with suggestions for graded games; “88 Suc-..
cessful Play Activities" (5.60),- the “Conduct
of Playgrounds" ($.25), andl"Recreative Ath-

letics"($1.00). Many other sources of help are
available. Write for lists of the Association's
publications on recreation, music and drama.

10 to 30 Boys and Girls
Low Organization

Players stand in circle
formation, with one player
in the center. A ball is
passed rapidly from one
player in the circle to an-
other, always being thrown
over the head of the play-

(Continued on page 354)

oralen (5.255

Play Days in the School

 

Play day in its present form, with all it
means of ioyous participation for large
numbers, has come as a welcome new devel-

opment in the physical education program.

GREAT deal of action by large numbers
A of enthusiastic, joyful boys and girls is
one of the outstanding characteristics of
a play day. Fun, happiness, emphatic expression
of the ego and satisfying achievement are the re-
sults that come to each child who participates in
play day activities. Obviously the leader of such
a play day must have a clearly conceived philos-
ophy of education, the ability to do accurate plan-
ning, a talent for persistent attention to details of
organization, and a basic unending interest in the
values and importance of play to children.

In the older track and field meets which were
the precursors of modern play days, the number
of participants was small and the emphasis was
on individual achievement and the winning of
championships. They were modeled after the
meets held for intercollegiate competition in track

318

and held sports, and served to stimu-
late and exploit a small group of su-
perior performers, but they discour-
aged and practically prohibited the par-
ticipation of most children. It is prob-
able that some justification can be
given for providing opportunities for
specialized competition by the children
with superior motor ability, but the
commonly accepted principles of democracy do not
warrant such a procedure until adequate provision
has been made for the majority of boys and girls.

Planning a Modern Play Day

The plan of organization for competition in a
modern play day takes into account the interests
and abilities of children at the various age levels.
Provision is made for a variety of activities and
a form of organization that will make possible,
under capable guidance and leadership, whole—
some participation for every child. The programs
for play days vary, each community usually mak-
ing its own program and including features that
are of particular interest to the group concerned.

These newer field days or play days have rapidly
gained in favor during the past ten years, and a
large number of cities and counties are now spon-

By Jackson R. Sharman, Ph.D.

Associate Professor of Physical
Education '
School of Education—University of
Michigan

soring them each year. Several states, through
the divisions of physical and health education in
the state departments of education, have organized
and promoted competition according to the play
day plan and have been successful in securing
participation by a large proportion of the pupils
enrolled in the schools. Among the states that
have been successful in this undertaking are Ala-
bama, California, Florida, Minnesota and Ohio.

The form of play day adapted for high school
and college women has been standardized to a con-
siderable extent through the influence of the
Women’s Division of the National Amateur
Athletic Federation. This organization has vigor-
ously directed its efforts toward the elimination
of inter-institutional competition fOr girls on a
’varsity team basis, and has suggested the play
day as a desirable substitute for competition of
’varsity teams. The pattern for a play day con-
ducted according to the ideals of the Women’s
Division usually provides for
some school to act as host and
to invite a number of other
schools to participate. Each in-
vited school is expected to send
the same number of girls. After

Dr. Sharman, who was one of the
pioneers in the promotion of the
modern play day movement, speaks
from long experience in the field of
physical education.

 
  
    

Recreation workers and physical educators are find-
ing in play days important values for their program.

the visiting girls “arrive at the location for the
play day, they are organized into clubs or groups
so that each girl will play on a team made up of
girls from several different schools. The program
extends over one or two days and usually includes
participation in folk dances, team games, group
games, relays, challenge contests, stunts, field
events, swimming, posture parades and entertain—
ment features. In the many institutions which
have conducted play days of this type, the indi-
viduals Who have taken part in them are enthu-
siastic about their values and possibilities. There
seems to be no doubt that meetings of girls con-
ducted on this basis have a place in our physical
education and recreation programs, and that they
have made an important contribution to the de-
ve10pment of programs that are socially, educa-
tionally and hygienically sound. i

In planning for a play day such as is conducted
by many cities and counties, preparation of the
program should be made several
weeks in advance of the date
for the play day. The program
should include an accurate de-
scription of all the events and
should be supplied to the schools

319

Jan P1,.“ [Lil's IN 7111: 5111001.

 

Courtesy Watches-fer County Recreation Commission

in order to secure uniformity of
execution. Descriptions are
needed because many of the
events included in programs for
occasions of this kind can be
interpreted in several different
ways.

It is important that the field of play be dia-
grammed to show where each group will assemble
and the exact Spot where each event will take
place. A satisfactory method of diagramming a
field is to make a checker board of the area by
running white lines lengthwise and crosswise of
the field about ten yards apart in each direction.
The lines running lengthwise should be numbered
and the lines running crosswise should be marked
by letters. After a field is marked in this way it
is easy to designate any spot on the field by re—
ferring to the intersections of lines. The diagram
of the field should be reproduced by blue printing
or mimeographing, and copies should be sent to
each school or group invited to participate. It is
essential. furthermore, that specific and detailed
directions be furnished to all teachers or leaders.
These directions should explain where each group
is to assemble, where its members are to stay when
not participating, how each group is to proceed
in getting on and off the field for the various
events, and how the children will be returned to
their home communities and dismissed.

Teachers from the schools participating in the
play day should be used as officials. By following
this plan it is possible to give the officials some
training and instruction in advance and to have
available a satisfactory number of intelligent con-
scientious persons.

'11 regard to such equipment as balls, bats, nets,
.. .pes, “ ands, and batons, the simplest and easiest
arrangement is to ask each group to bring with it

The more formal track and field
meet which emphasized individual
achievement, superior performance
and the winning of championships,
is giving way in many counties,
communities and school districts, to
the more inclusive play day.

the necessary articles and to be
responsible for taking them
safely back home. Heavy arti-
cles that are difiicult to trans-
port, such as jump standards,
balancing beams and basketball
goals, should be provided by a
coinmittee appointed for this purpose.

Grouping the Participants

There are two methods of grouping children
for participation, and each method is used in about
the same number of situations. One is for each
school to divide the pupils into about six color-
clubs or groups before the children leave their
home community. This arrangement permits chil—
dren who are assigned to each color—group to play
and compete on the same teams with pupils from
other schools who have been assigned to the same
color-group.

The value of this plan is that it permits
children to make wholesome social contacts
with children from other communities. The dis-
advantage of the method is that the technique and
skill of playing is somewhat low when teams are
organized in such an informal manner without
Opportunity for previous practice.

The second method is for each school to organ-
ize teams and groups for each of the events on the
program in advance of the time set for the play
day. The plan permits groups from the different
schools to play and compete with groups from
each other school. The advantages of this ar-i
rangement are that it is easier to administer the
program and the quality of performance is better
because the members of each group have had
opportunity to practice together. The disadvan-
tage is that teachers and pupils are likely to over-

(Continued on page 350)

 

H. Armstrong Roberts

There are valuable lessons learned in football and other
major games which vitally affect the boy’s later life.

69"

Moral Lessons From the Great Team Games
By Joseph Lee, LL.D.

great team games of which football is the
gypg others may fairly easily be taught, and
still a third class can be taught but only by peo—
ple possessed by the truths that they would teach
and with the aid of high tradition. Both of these
favorable conditions I think are necessary.

First: Through the inevitable stress of these

SOME things are taught inevitably by the

major games something of courage and persistence
and of that combined strength and elasticity of
purpose that wears best and is most unconquer-
able is certain to be taught. A football player, in
carrying out a difficult and complicated assign-
ment involving movement accurate to an inch and
timed to a split second combined, with readiness
to meet sudden emergencies with instant and

321

322 MORAL LESSONS FROM

decisive action, receives
a training most valuable
in all of the affairs of
life. He has passed a
milestone in the growth
of character.

Team sense, also, the
fusing of one’s individ-
ual personality in a
larger whole, will be
taught in football and
measurably in other of
the major games—
taught at least to almost
everyone. Some, it is
true, are born prima
donnas and with diffi-
culty sink their his-
trionic bias in the in-
Spiration of a common
purpose.

These are great and
valuable lessons—cour-
age, address, team play
—-—the basis of effective
life, the germ of patriot-
ism. They are valuable
eSpecially to our mod-
ern youth, turning him
toward active life in
place of the passive ex-
istence of perpetual en-
tertainment and sensation so prevalent today.

And lessons taught by games are really taught.
They are set by Mother Nature and are inculcated
by her favorite school masters, the vital instincts
—instincts that taught our fathers through the
many thousand years of man’s apprenticeship the
things that he must do to live. These are our
earliest voices, speaking with an authority that no
human schoolmaster has possessed. To them the
child’s whole nature is attuned. At their call the
forces of his body and mind are mobilized and
he outdoes himself, is carried each day a little fur-
ther toward what nature intended him to be. It is
the deepest experience that leaves the deepest
mark, and it is to play that we must chiefly look
for the forming of man’s mind and character.
The chief function of the human teacher is to let
alone. We outsiders can provide the playground,
games, even much valuable suggestion, but when
the game is on we must, within wide limits, let it
play itself. Nature, in order to inculcate the hard
and vital lessons that she has to teach, must be

 

Board of Recreation, Tampa, Florida

THE GREAT TEAM GAMES

free of interruption
from the school com-
mittee.

And there are other
lessons that play itself
will teach—the making
of special rules for in-
stance, whether over
the fence is out or just
which stone or piece of
wood does actually con-
stitute first base. And
there is the making of
judicial decisions and
enforcing them—some-
how deciding, by force
of lung or arm or
otherwise, whether a
particular player is out
or safe, and in general
what is or isn’t fair.
To a great extent,
though not altogether,
the best thing for the
development of charac-
ter that the grown-up
leader can contribute is
his absence.

And there is an inter-

The teaching of fair play and of chivalry—by far the team or international
most important lesson as it is also the most difficult. law in games. The

game itself is interna-

tional. There is no use trying to play unless there
is agreement on the rules. And there is no use

even then unless there is some provision for en-
forcement. There must be not only international
law but there must be an international tribunal.
An international legislature is also necessary as
the game develops. These institutions all exist,
and groups of leading players, present as well as
past, find themselves legislating and passing judg-
ments on matters in which their own teams or
their own institutions are involved. Nor does it
appear that those who are most loyal to their own
team or group are least so toward these inter-
team institutions upon the full functioning and
acknowledged authority of which the very exist-
ence of the game depends. '

Second: It is comparatively easy to teach a boy
to be a good loser and a good sport. These les-
sons, indeed, are learned by most boys in their
games without the need of teaching and belong
in large measure to Class One previously men-
tioned.

MORAL LESSONS FROM THE GREAT TEAM GAMES 323

Then comes the third class—the sort of thing
that can be taught, but only under favorable con-
ditions. Of this class of teaching, fair play is
by far the most important as it is also the most
difficult. Many people will be shocked at being
told that fair play does not come natural, that boys
are apt to cheat or take unfair advantage in their
games. Such things seem to us improbable when
in the calm detachment of our grown-up life we
think of the very decent set of boys whom we
know. But if we happen to be watching a game
in which our own college is engaged we sometimes
become awart of tendencies within ourselves that
give us pause. We all believe in fair play, of
course, even in chivalry toward opponents, but
we do not always exemplify these virtues at a
football game.

And if we cannot always feel and act according
to our own ideals, how is it with the boy in a cru—
cial game? Suppose you were back in college and
were playing fullback in the final game against
your dearest rival. And suppose that an opponent
is about to score what looks like the deciding
touchdown and that you can stop him by some act
contrary to the rules but which you think the
umpire will not see. Would you, rule or no rule,
stop him all the same? Will you save the day for
dear old Pocohontas or will you be the unknown
hero of fair play? Such choices—wthough not
always quite so momentous in their consequences
-—are presented to our boys every day. Nor to
the boy’s moral sense and power of discrimination
is a clear-cut alternative presented between the
good course and the bad. He is subjected to that
confiict of moral purposes that is the essential ele—
ment in tragedy.

Yet often the right choice is made usually.

A friend of mine who was captain of a college
team played, in the great games, opposite a man
who was regarded as the fiercest of the other side.
He told me that this man would not, seen or un-
seen by the umpire, break by a hair’s breadth a
rule of play. And this was in the old days, back
in the 80’s, when almost any sort of play, within
the rules or otherwise, was often countenanced

provided that it made for victory. There are such
men on every team, and always have been.

How can such an attitude be taught? In the
first place, there is, once more, the virtue of the
game, a rule above the rules that belongs to it as
an institution. There is much talk against pro-
fessionalism but there is a deeper professionalism
among both professionals and amateurs that is the
salvation of the game and of the players, just as
in a soldier there is the honor of the uniform; in
the church, the honor of the cloth; in law and
medicine, a professional standard that cannot be
bought. Such is the meaning of professional. Such
is the great law—play the game. In the profes-
sional, too, there is a pride. These things we do
not do; such advantages we will not take; rule
or no rule, win or lose, they are not within our
program.

And there is chivalry. There grows from com—
mon service of the laws of sport a respect for
your opponent that will decide your attitude and
your manners toward " him.

The game, pride, chivalry. And behind them
there is the little group, the small company, in this
case, the team, which without written laws sets
up unformulated standards that are final. Such
was the Round Table. Such were the peers of
Charlemagne, the monks of Cluny. Such were
the little groups to which the Greek philosophers
attributed the higher growth of morals. It is
through such groups, combined with noble lead—
ership, that all rules of behavior, transcending in
authority all laws and formulas, have come to be;
and few have such intensity of experience in the
application of their laws as has the football team.
Its standards are the fruit of practice, not of
theory. They are hard wove, likely to endure.

And finally, taking on supreme authority, there
is the conscience of the individual, the sense of

honor, the one great gift we owe to chivalry. It
is the apotheosis of the game, attainment of that

higher spirit of the team that will oppose the team
itself in reverence for what it stands.

It is this Spirit team games help build up.

 

“The guardians of the child have the duty to
present in their own lives such patterns of honesty,
sincerity and courage as shall challenge the child’s
emulation. In an age when mechanical devices
bring distant wonders, and the spread of wealth
provides ease and comfort beyond our wildest
dreams, it is of the gravest importance that all

adults realize that by no such trickery is the matter
of wholesome life produced. It is only in the ex—
ample of sincere living that the child finds the
dynamic impulse for his own wholesome devel-
opment.”-—From Report of Committee on Delin—
quency, White H ouse Conference on Child H ealth
and Protection.

Education

of the

Emotions

By George E. Johnson

Graduate School of Education,

Harvard University

the generative forces back of all behavior, are

but slightly appealed to directly in the ordin-
ary school subjects. So far as conventional in—
struction goes, the emotions are about as little an
object of concern in education as they would be
if educators had never heard of them. \Vhere in
book instruction, at least, shall we find exercises
and direction of the deep-seated passions that con-
trol human conduct, love, hate, desire, fear, anger,
disgust, sorrow, sympathy, elation; or for the
emotional expression in situations involving
rivalry, risk, sense of fairness, self-assertion, co-
operation, sacrifice, loyalty? Effectual expression
of these lies in motor activity and the more direct
the circuit between emotion and action, the more
intense is the educa-
t i o n a 1 experience.
Theater going, for ex-

T HE emotions which. in the last analysis, are

|i
.J/

"A school may have buildings, play-
grounds, equipment, a wealth of material
devices, favorable organization, a staff of
a dozen experts and specialists, and even
have the title, ‘Progressive School' carved
in stone over its portals, and yet be a
dead school. And a school suffering
from the lack of all these advantages may
yet be a progressive school. Why? Be-
cause there is a progressive captain in the
pilot-house and a progressive crew on
the decks. If this be treason, make the
most of it!"—Arthur C. Perry, Jr., in
Progressive Education. \a,

old foundations, to old roots of both body and
soul, and includes activities involving the emo—
tional elements I have previously mentioned, is
almost our only hope of adequate training of the
emotions. It offers almost the only field where,
with reference to the deep emotional elements of
character, children and youth may become “doers
of the word and not hearers only.” . . . Perhaps
the most fundamental problem in education, espe-
cially in a democracy like ours, is the conditioning
of the emotional life of children and youth to
right expression in individual experiences and in
social relations.

Now it is in the activities of play that these
deep emotional states are aroused under condi-
tions approximating those of their more primitive
expression in uncivi-
lized man. It is here
we hnd opportunity

ample, may stimulate
the emotions. It may
suggest id e al action
with relation to emo—
tions, but it cannot
train the emotions.

Public education is ,‘

perhaps, the - weakest
in this matter of train-
ing emotions. Play,
since it harks back to

324

"It is the co-mingling of these two elements—the
predictable, the recurring the familiar, with the un-
expected, the unpredictable, the novel, that makes
the world for us as we, in education, face it. Educa-
tion is not a preadiustment to a foreseeable life, but
lies in such adjusting and controlling as bring better
conscious control and better habitual management
of the familiar and habitual constituents. Man's
thinking is the unique factor in this control. At
the present time change is more rapid, more per-
vasive than ever before. All acting, all conduct,
is a building of the self, whether as thinking, or feel-
ing, or bodily movement. The whole organism gets
into each response."—William H. Kilpatrick.

to train and direct
these emotions under
stress with reference
to social needs and
ideals. It is here the
v e r y war-dogs of
man’s character are at
the same time invig—
orated and m a d e
(Continued on
page 351)

Drama

in the

School

By Mabel Foote Hobbs

National Recreation Association

school has solved many problems presented

by another extra-curriculum activity. The
dramatic method of teaching, whether it be in
reading, geography, or history, has taken care of
drama for the smaller children. But the group of
children who seem to be neglected are those from
ten to high school age. To these youngsters,
drama is just a “poor relation” whose merit is

B Y giving a definite place to drama, the high

 

“For my part I’d rather bear
with you than bear you.”

grudgingly recognized and to whom attention is
paid with equal reluctance.

If a play is to be given, the cast finds no time
allowed for rehearsal during the school day, so it
sacrifices a part of its precious after-school hours.
And, for the child of junior high school age, this
sacrifice is made not without great effort. After
all, playing, not play—acting, is the important
thing to him, when he has been dismissed for the
day. Being in plays holds a certain lure for

 

“I do beseech your Grace, let me the
knowledge of my fault bear with me.”

him, but after a day
filled with classes, the
lure of acting is consid-
erably lessened when
compared to the attrac-
tions afforded by a spirited game of baseball on
the schoolyard, a game of marbles with the boys
on the block, or even “making something out in
the garage.” Criticism of the child can not very
well be made. What adult, after working all day
in the office, would joyfully contemplate staying on
for several hours- to act Peter Grimm as a part
of his work? The child, after his lessons are
finished, feels that all labor is ended. It isn’t as
if he were a college athlete training for the big
game of the season. And, if he were, athletics as
extra-curricular activities taking up a dispropor-
tionate amount of the time and energy of students
have been justly criticized.

A plea For a place
for drama in the
school curriculum

“I will kill thee a hundred and fifty
ways; therefore tremble and depart.”

 

325

326 DRAMA IN THE SCHOOL

Another problem which faces drama in the
junior high school is that of competent direction.
Too often a tired teacher whose particular job
anyway is instructing in chemistry, has charge
of the rehearsal. That the English teacher should,
perhaps, have charge of play direction has been
suggested. That is hardly fair. She no doubt
has just as much work as the other teachers. And
the fact that she can teach reading and composi-
tion does not insure her competency as a director
of drama any more than a man’s ability to play
the violin insures his capacity to give lessons on
that instrument.

Why drama should be disinherited from the
school curriculum just when the child would be
greatly benefited by the sportsmanship and team-
work training gained through participation in
plays, to say nothing of the benefits to the child
in poise and voice culture, is a puzzle. From ten
to the early teens, children begin to ask for the
organized formal drama. No longer are they
satisfied with the pure creative freedom of their
own imaginative plays, when they might change
from a mouse to a lion simply by saying, “I am
a mouse. Now, I am a lion.” Nor are they satis-
fied with the dramatized story. It begins to be
rather silly to pretend to be Washington crossing
the Delawarefas a dramatic paraphrase of the
' written page in the history book. What these chil-
dren do want is a real play.

Lacking time for the development of the longer
plays, junior high
school children and
their teachers will find
a wealth of fine dra-
matic material in the
very short plays. These
require a minimum of
rehearsal and satisfy
the children’s wishes
and needs for formal
drama. Further, these
short plays fill the gap
between the informal
drama of early child-
hood and the drama-
tized story of the first
years of school. Being definitely organized in
structure, these plays prepare the child for the
professional plays which practically every high
school feels it must produce as the “Junior” or
“Senior play.” Most Broadway successes, esoteric
enough for the country at large, are potential plays
for the high schools. \Vithout any preparation for

 

Charming scenes from “As You Like It” presented
by the children of Friends’ Seminary, New York City.

these plays in the intermediate grades and junior
high school, it is rather foolish to expect the child
in his junior or senior year to walk the boards
as a professional actor.

Very short plays in the junior high school, pre-
pared under the direction of a competent teacher
versed in dramatic technique, will go a long way
towards solving the problem not only of giving
the children the benefit of drama in the inter—
mediate grades and the junior high school, but
the problem of the high school in Janesville or
Middletown which is trying to produce either a
Broadway or Little Theatre play with possibly one
or two in the cast who can really act.

A Few Plays for School Production

The following is a suggested list of plays for the in-
between age. It is diflicult to make a definite de-
marcation between the plays of the child of ten and
twelve, and those of twelve and fourteen. The twelve
year old can often participate in the plays Suitable for
teen age, but frequently finds as much pleasure taking
part in the less 50phisticated plays for the younger
boy and girl.

For Children 10-12 Years of Age

Book of Marionette Plays by Anne Stoddard and
Tony Sarg. Marionette plays are exceedingly p0p-
ular with younger children. The book contains
Red Riding Hood, Jack and the Beanstalk, Hansel
and Gretel, The Singing Lesson, and Rip Van W’in-
kle. Hansel and Crete] and Rip Van Winkle are
especially recommended. Greenberg. $2.

Child’s Book of Holiday Plays by Frances G. \Vickes.
A splendid collection of lays for the New Year,
St. Valentine’s Day, May ay, Hallowe‘en, Thanks-
giving and Christmas. The Christmas Jest found
in this collection is one of the most beautiful plays

ever written for chil-
dren. Macmillan. 80c.

Elf of Discontent and
Other Plays by Rita
Benton. A collection
of nine plays which
have proved popular
with children of all

ages. The .Happy
Prince espeCIally rec-
om mended.

Eight Little Plays by
Rose Fyleman. An
unusual collection of
whimsical plays. In-
cludes Darby and Joan,
The Fairy Riddle,
Noughts and Crosses,
The “leather Clerk,
The Fairy and the D011,
Cabbages and Kings,
In Arcady, and Father

Christmas. Doubleday,
Doran and Co., $1.25.

Fernseed in the Shoe by Ethel Van der Veer. 9 char-
acters. Easily adapted to a cast of girls. A ro-
mantic young lady of mediaeval times puts fernseed
in her shoe, thinking to see fairies. She meets in-
stead, not the prince of fairy land, but the very
prince of the realm. In addition to an interesting
plot, this little play is valuable for its poetry.
French. 35c. Royalty $5.

A Garden Cinderella by Edith Burrows. 2 acts. Plays
1 hour. 11 characters and extras who may take the

DRAMA IN THE SCHOOL 327

parts of flowers and insects. Little Green Worm,

scored by the flowers, becomes a beautiful moth.
Penn Publishing Co. 25c.

George Washington Plays edited by A. P. Sanford.
16 plays based on the life of Washington. For the
patriotic program we recommend this book to the
school director. ESpecially helpful for the George
Washington celebration of 1932. Dodd, Mead and
Co. $2.50.

House of the Heart and Other Plays by Constance
D’Arcy Mackay. Ten short one—act plays, with
suggestions for staging, acting and costuming. The
book contains The House of the Heart, often called
the most popular children’s play. Holt. $1.50.

How the Elm Tree Grew by Marion Holbrook. The
play is based on the fact that many trees now grow-
ing in New England were brought to this country
as seedlings by the Pilgrims and other early set-
tlers. Interpretive dance may be introduced. Na-
tional Recreation Association. 20c.

Little Plays by Lena Dalkeith. Short plays with
small casts. Contains Princess and the Swineherd,
Alfred and the Cakes, a splendid Robin Hood dra-
matization, Scene from Uncle Tom's Cabin, and a

longer play entitled Sir Gareth of Orkney. Dut-
ton.' $1.

Little Plays for Little People edited by A. P. Sanford
and Robert Haven Schauffler. This book contains
28 plays based on holidays and festivals. A number

of them are well adapted to school use. Dodd,
Mead and Co. $2.50.

The Masque of the Pied Piper by Katherine Lord in
“Plays for School and Camp.” 12 speaking parts
and extras. Unusual adaptation of the famous

Piper. The book contains several other excellent
plays. Little, Brown & Co. $1.75.

Patchwork Plays by Rachel Field. Contains Polly,
Patchwork, Little Square-Toes, Miss Ant, Miss
Grasshopper and Mr. Cricket, Chimney Sweeps’
Holiday, and The Sentimental Scarecrow. All new

and delightfully whimsical plays for camp use.
Doubleday, Doran and Co. $1.25.

One Act Plays for Young Folks edited by M. Jagen-
dorf. A collection of thirteen plays by well known
artists. All are popular with children. Suitable
for school and club programs. Brentano’s. $2.

The Princess Whom No One Could Silence. A

Norwegian folk play. Excellent parts for boys. 8
characters. Drama Bookshop. 25c.

Safety Plays. The Education Division of the Na-
tional Safety Council has published several safety
plays which have proved very popular with schools
and clubs. How Knowledge Driveth Away Fear,
Bruin’s Inn, and The Lost Camping Place espe—
cially recommended. 25c each.

Short Plays edited by Webber and Webster. A splen-
did collection of 20 short plays with supplementary
suggestions for producing. The Stolen Prince, a
Chinese play by Dan Totherch, and The Boston
Tea Party by Constance Mackay are eSpecially rec-

ommended. Houghton Mifiiin Co. $1.28.

Short Plays from American History and Literature
by Olive Price. Volume I contains five plays from
early American history, an Americanization playlet
and a commencement pageant. Price $1.25. Vol-
ume II includes seven historical plays. Fresh an—
gles and artistic treatment make these little plays
unusually delightful.

For Children 12-14 Years 'of Age

The Blackbird Pie by Clayton R. Wise. As few or as
many characters as are available. Plays 45 minutes.
Costumes are easily made from crepe paper. A
colorful and intriguing dramatization of Sing a Song
of Sixpence. Baker. 25c.

The Captain’s Dilemma by Marion Holbrook. 1 act.
2 boys, 3 girls. A new interpretation of the court—

ship of Captain Standish. Good assembly material.

All girl cast possible. National Recreation Associa—
tion. 10c.

Dramatized Literature by Mildred Allen Butler. A
collection of nineteen short plays prepared for class—
room use. Includes such titles as The Return of
Rip Van Winkle, The Mad Tea Party, and The
Pauper Becomes a Prince, from Mark Twain. Har-
court, Brace and Co. $1.00.

The Dyspeptic Ogre by Percival Wilde. 1 act. 10
boys, 9 girls. Boy Scouts rescue a larderful of little
girls from the ogre’s kitchen and the ogre learns

that for_years he has been eating Irish stews instead
of little girls. Baker. 35c. Royalty $10.

Flying Colors by Mabel Travis Wood. A one—act
play for high school students, dramatically present-
ing the part that Tom Brace’s interest in the safety
of the citizens of Centertown played in electing him
mayor of the city. 5 characters. Education Di-
vision, National Safety Council. 25c.

Forty-Minute Plays from Shakespeare by Fred G.
Barker. A dozen excellent cuttings especially ad-
apted to school use. The Macmillan Co. 80c.

The Gooseberry Mandarin by Grace Dorcas Ruthen-
burg. 3 men, 1 woman. The amusing tale of a
Chinese mandarin whole ancestors have planted
only gooseberries in the garden and who secretly
yearns for a banana. French. 35c. Royalty $5.

The Happy Man by M. E. Irwin. 1 act. Outdoor
setting. 6 girls, 8 boys, extras. The story of the
king whose only hope for recovery from a serious
illness was to wear the shirt of a happy man. When
the happy man was found he had no shirt. May be
rehearsed in parts. Oxford University Press. 20c.

The Knave of Hearts by Louise Saunders. 1 act. 8
boys. 2 girls and extras. The Knave of Hearts be-
comes a thief in order to conceal the fact that the
Lady Violetta is a disgracefully bad cook. Long-
mans, Green and Co. 50c. Royalty $5 if no ad-
mission is charged; otherwise, $10.

The Last Voyage of Odysseus by Perry Boyer Cor-
neau. 2 acts. 4 boys, 2 girls and extras. Odysseus,

when a very old man, plans a second voyage with
the children. Old Tower. 40c.

Magic Lanterns by Louise Saunders. Figureheads,
especially recommended, is a short play for three
boys and two girls. It is the story of a tempera-
mental princess who is wooed by a prince in the
guise of a fisherman. Also contains Our Kind, Poor
Maddalena, See-Saw, and King and Commoner.

Charles Scribner’s Sons. $1.50.

Nevertheless by Stuart Walker. 1 act. 2 boys, 1
girl. Two children and a burglar discover the
meaning of “nevertheless.” Appleton. 50c.

The Pie and the Tart by Mathurin Dondo. 1 act. 4
characters. Exterior. Two vagabonds secure a
toothsome meal through a bit of dextrous thievery
executed with nimble Villonesque humor. The one
woman’s part may be played by a boy or the lines

may be spoken behind the scene. Appleton. 50c.
Royalty $10.

Plays for Young People by Florence Anne Marsh. A
collection of plays written especially for junior high
school students. The book contains 11 plays; 3 ex-
cellent ShakeSpearean cuttings including the Tam-
ing of the Shrew, Merry Wives of Windsor, and
the Comedy of Errors, as well as a short dramati-
zation of Robin Hood, Kidnapped, The BishOp’s
Silver Candlesticks, Rip Van Winkle, and other
pOpular stories. A collection which will be welcomed
by all teachers. Allyn and Bacon. 80c.

Two Blind Men and a Donkey by Mathurin Dondo.
1 act. 6 characters. Exterior. A clever comedian

extricates two blind beggars from a dilemma. Ap-
pleton. 50c. Royalty $10.

(Continued on page 351)

Correlation

of

Recreation

and

Vacation Playgrounds, Board of Education, New York City

The modern school is making its contribution to the
solution of the problem of the right use of leisure.

girls for social efiiciency, are necessarily giv-

ing considerable attention to a recreation
program. Not only the mental life of the children
is given emphasis but their whole personalities.
social, moral and physical, as well as mental, are
enriched with the View of preparing them for
complete living in a democracy such as ours. In
this preparation no item of their training is em-
phasized more than are the recreational activities.
Nothing surpasses in importance the play activi-
ties, the club affairs and the numerous extra—
curricular functions, indoor
and outdoor, which give op-
portunities for self-expres-
sion and social relationships.
These functions are a deh-
nite part of the educational
scheme in the modern school.
This type of school is
going one step further by
correlating the recreation

328

SCHOOLS of today, in training boys and

Mr. Anderson, Director of Health

and Physical Education, Kansas
City, Mo., formerly had charge of
the community centers of the Cleve-

land Board ol Education. His con-
ception of the responsibility of
schools for training for leisure comes
from experience in both school and
community recreation.

 

 
 
 
   
   

 

By Alfred 0. Anderson

Director, Health and Physical Education
Public Schools, Kansas City, Missouri

program with the other subjects of the curricu—
hnn. Since the attainment of social efliciency
is one object of education it is maintained that
practically all subjects can contribute something
to the solution of the problem of the right use of
leisure. Furthermore, this school assumes the log-
ical responsibility of making it possible for its
graduates to practice a sane recreation program
under school supervision after the days of formal
learning are past. So we have come to look upon
our public schools as institutions that establish
habits and knowledge of recreation through plan-
ning of extra-curricular,
curricular and post-curricular
programs of leisure-time ac-
tivity.

Extra-Curricular
Activities

The extra-curricular pro-
gram ofTers the richest field
for the development of rec-

CORRELATION OF RECREATION 329

reation habits.
Clubs and
teams are the
media used.
Through a
competitive
game series
f r o m t h e
fourth grade
through high
school a won-
derful Oppor-
t u n i t y i 5
opened up for
the average
boy and girl to
become recrea—
tion minded.
No better op-
p o r t u n i t y
exists for com-
batting spectatoritis and the other diseases of this
nervous age than to give every boy and girl the
chance to play a favorite sport.

In the elementary school the plan is worked
out of having at least one boys’ team and one
girls’ team in each room. These teams, grouped
two grades to a league, play before school in the
morning, during the recesses, at noons and after
school in directed schedules of such games as new-
comb, batball, dodgeball, endball, volleyball and
baseball. For the supervision of such a prOgram
two classroom teachers with special training and
extra compensation are secured. Assistance in
teaching and officiating the games is given by the
principal, the physical director, the other class-
room teachers, and even by junior and senior high
school students. The results of such an officially
organized extra-curricular program in the ele-
mentary grades are evident when compared with
the haphazard playgrOund turmoil of the old type
school. When following such an organized play
program, the school is not only preparing children
for complete living, but the children are actually
enjoying rich experiences while yet in school.

In the secondary school a similar program of
after-school athletic recreation opportunities is
worked out with the home rooms or the gymna-
sium classes as a basis for the competition. Hun-
dreds of teams, instead of one or two, are giving
every boy and girl a chance to play the major
athletic sports of the day. Only the lack of courts
and fields and the exaggerated emphasis placed

 

Development of responsibility in the use of play
materials comes with appreciation of play values.

on the varsity
teams are pre-
venting a fur-
ther expansion
of this whole-
some portion
of the school
recreation pro—
gram.
Although
teams repre-
5 en t i n g t h e
physical recre—
ation activities
are considered
most impor-
tant, it must
not be forgot-
ten that other
clubs spon-
sored during
the home-room periods and after school also
offer rich opportunities for the development of
hobbies in a variety of forms that have splendid
carry-over values. Bands, orchestras, glee clubs
and dramatic groups, clubs in handicraft, model
aeroplanes, art, first aid, collecting and photog-
raphy, harmonica. bands, literary and social clubs
are samples of the multitude of faculty super-
vised recreation opportunities offered by the
modern school. Inter-club affairs and school
functions such as banquets, socials, dramatic, lit-
erary and music festivals, as well as dances, bring
the entire school together for mass recreation on
school premises and with the co-operation of a

recreation-minded faculty.
Extending even beyond the confines of the

school there are projected clubs for hiking, arch-
ery, horse-back riding, bowling and skating. All
these efforts are designed to give the boys and
girls a training in social efficiency through the
establishment of wholesome recreation habits. All
of this broad athletic program of intra-mural ath-
letic teams, all of this scheme of club and school
activities prepare for a wholesome and construc-
tive use of leisure hours,—the leisure hours boys
and girls are enjoying while at school, as well as
the spare time that will be theirs when school
days are gone.

Correlating the Curriculum With Recreation

But the efforts to build up a recreation program.
(Continued on page 352)

Leisure ‘
and the

By Berna] R. Weimer, Ph.D.

ITHIN the past few years there have
Wappeared several challenging books on

the problem of leisure time and how to
use it most effectively for the enrichment of the
individual and the welfare of society. Not only
economists and sociologists but educational
authorities are' recognizing the importance of this
problem. Dr. Goodwin Watson in his suggested
reorganization of the high school, The l/Vorld
Tomorrow, 1930, would create a department of
leisure. He further states that the “really chal-

lenging task for education is the enrichment ofa

leisure.”

It would be highly desirable"
for the various departments of
the colleges and universities to
realize the importance of leis-
ure and, if possible, make some
definite contribution t o w a r d
solving the problem of increased
and often misused and abused"!
leisure. However, in this day of standardized
pre-professional and professional courses with
the consequent emphasis on the purely vocational,
there is little wonder that the content and aim
of most college courses have shifted to the purely
practical, economic, fact-accumulating end. The

which will

student is being trained only to make a living—1“)

,d

not how to live§
Planning the? Curriculum to Meet New Needs

If curriculum changes are planned to meet this
need, the content and the procedure followed in
such courses must of necessity differ in some re-
spects from the usual “line run” of courses. A
new technique becomes imperative. A course with
avocational objectives cannot make use of the
set, formal lecture type of instruction. Any influ-
ence with a tendency to deaden or restrict freedom
must be removed. The spectre of “grades” must

330

Dr. Weimer, who is Pro-
, iessor of Biology, Bethany
- College; West Virginia,

visions a college curriculum

train men and
women in the art of living
and the wise use of leisure.

 

College Curriculum

New emphases, and changes in
the content of certain courses are
necessary if youth is to learn to
live—not merely to make a living

be securely locked in the closet and the greatest
possible allowance and freedom given for the
various individualities touched. To be most effec-
tive, the content of the courses must appeal to the
individual—“spirit, mind, and ‘body”—and must
have carry-over qualities for use in later years.
It should outline and arouse an interest which
would involve little expense to pursue and, fin-
ally, it must be absolutely free
from any economic urge.

A general survey shows sev-
eral fields which appear to offer
material to meet this new need
provided the emphasis is shifted
somewhat. These fields are
Directed Reading,—call it liter-
ature if you like—Music, Dra-
matics, Art, Natural Science and, of course, Ath-
letics or Physical Education.

/In reading or literature courses having as an
aim the use of leisure, the pupil or student must
be guided to read because he wants to read, be-
cause he enjoys it and because it is more fun than
loafing. \Vhat shall he read? The best in litera-
ture, certainly—provided he enjoys it. Enjoy-
ment and pleasure, and freedom of choice are
some of the primary requisites of leisure time
courses. Read to improve yourself? Twaddle!
Read to make more money? God forbid! Read
to confound enemies and make envious friends
even though you are bored to tears? Never! To
quote Dr. Goodwin Watson (Progressive Educa-
tion), “If Wordsworth and Milton bore him
(the student) it is more wholesome and sincere
for him to work out his units in modern maga-
zines than to pretend a liking for something that

LEISURE AND THE COLLEGE CURRICULUM 331

is recommended only by the ap-
proval of tradition. For many
people the ability to discriminate
among articles and stories in pop-
ular magazines, novels, plays and
picture shows may be more im—
portant than a nodding acquaint—
ance with standards of excellence
they never use and cannot ap-
preciate.”

Much has been written about
the influence of the dime novel
and the wicked Wild West on
the waywardness of youth and
late childhood. Yet anyone who
has experienced it will not soon
forget the thrill which came from
reading one of these adventures
while hiding away in the attic or
in the “spare” bed room. It is
true beyond doubt that misused
leisure is a more potent factor in
making gangsters, racketeers, and
others of their breed than are
the books they have read. Now
it is not advocated that the above
mentioned writings be made a
part of a college reading course, although I must
confess that some of our classics and best litera-
ture are more blood curdling and present more
sex problems! CI‘ he emphasis in a leisure course
must be on tolerance, sympathy and mutual under-
standing, even at the sacrifice of tradition and
authority in literature. A true solution of the leis-
ure time problem consists partly in furnishing
folks with something they like to do and enjoy and
which, while it may not offer any positive benefit
to the individual and society, certainly offers no
haerIn this day of lawlessness, of ruthless dis-
respect for life and property, any remedy is worth
trying. In the words of Lowell, reading “is the
key which admits us to the whole world of thought
and fancy and imagination, to the company of
the saint and sage, of the wisest and the wittiest
at their wisest and wittiest moment. It enables
us to see.with the keenest eyes, hear with the
keenest ears and listen to the sweetest voices of
all time. I t annihilate: time and space for “333/

Old Subjects With a New Emphasis

Music, art, dramatics, and athletics are the tra-
ditional and best developed fields from the stand-
point of leisure time activity. Yet a new em—

 

Courtesy Detroit Department of Recreation

“One must try to draw or paint a picture, mix some
colors, make some daubs—before a Rembrandt or a
Titian will give its fullest measure of appreciation.”

phasis needs be placed on music and dramatics in
this day of the radio and the talking picture lest
these valuable units in a leisure time curriculum
arouse less interest and support when the eco-
nomic emphasis is removed. “Canned music,”
“canned voices” and “canned acting” can never
replace the actual artist. Yet the curricular or—
ganization of such courses must be such that any—
one with the slightest desire to enter these fields
can do so. Too often dramatic, -art and'xlmusic
courses are so hedged around with prereqiiisites
that only the favored few who have already been
initiated, can enter. ,

Qt the same time, the goal of such courses
should not be appreciation, Ibut participation) The
deepest appreciation and enjoyment of either art
or music comes only after one tried to do some—
thing of the sort himself. Real understanding of
a great symphony or a great orchestra can come
only after you have tried a slide 'on a trombone
or drawn a screetch from a violin.

The same is true of art. One must try to draw
or paint a picture—mix some colors, make some
daubs—before a Rembrandt or a Titian will give
its fullest measure of appreciation. (From the
standpoint of a leisure time program, participa-

332 LEISURE AND THE COLLEGE CURRICULUM

tion must be the watchword. Something to do.)

Work which will carry over from school days to
real life. It may be objected that this is the
work of the grades. So it is, but on a higher
level, just as our other College Courses are grade
school courses on a more mature plane. Elemen-
tary work is designed to correct social abuse of
leisure time by little fingers and voices. These
college courses are designed for bigger fingers
and deeper voices.

The field of Natural Science affords the back-
ground for a college course which has the qualifi-
cations previously suggested for the leisure time
curriculum. For such a course the world round-
about would serve for both laboratory and class-
room. This of itself would make for that natural
freedom which is so desirable and bring the added
interest which is always attached to something
alive.

The advice of Agassiz to “study Nature, not
books" has been with us a long time. So long, in
fact, that its very familiarity has bred in us a
sort of contempt for its wisdom. The consequent
result is that instead of studying nature at first
hand under natural conditions, there has been set
up the largely artificial conditions of the labora-
tory. Today it may be truly said that biology is
not only too formalized but entirely too “formal-

dehyzed” as well.

Bethany College Plans Its Course

Perhaps it may be of greater interest and make
for more objectivity if a course of this type were
outlined. Such a course is offered at Bethany
College and styled in the catalogue of the insti-
tution as Our Outdoors. The catalogue statement
specifically states that the course has no practical
or economic aim but is outlined as “a series of
field studies on plant life, animal life—particu-
larly ornithology and entomol-
ogy—physical geography, and
training in the essentials of
camping.” Many institutions
of higher education offer sepa-
rate courses in ornithology,
entomology, and these other
fields just mentioned, but the
average student has time, in
his crowded “required” and
vocational curriculum, for only
one or perhaps two of these
courses. In most cases the in-
structor in charge is intensely tion.

interested only in his one particular field which
in itself narrows the boundaries of the course
even more and restricts the range of interest.
{the most important aim of an avocational course
is to enrich the field of interest for playtime
pursuits) In place of turning out two-semester
hour specialists who know more and more about
less and less, the plan' is to qualify avoca-
tionists who know more and more about more
and more. The observation may be made that
it will be less and less about more and more.
However, it is felt that the content of the course
can be enriched and strengthened in a large meas—
ure 'by the elimination of much of the lost motion
attendant upon the usual field trip.

To outline the course more fully no one
teacher is reSponsible for all the various activi-
ties. It is a cooperative undertaking on the part
of qualified members of the various scientific
departments in the college coordinated and corre-
lated by a director. All meetings of the group
are held outdoors in the field. Along with the
instruction in natural science and astronomy, is
taught the practical elementary principles of
camping; such as, selection of camp sites, camp
sanitation, and camp cooking. This part of the
course is in charge of the Director of Physical
Education. The program calls not only for study
in the field but living outdoors as well. \Veek-
end camping trips are in the course schedule.

The adventure—for such is the spirit of this
new departure—begins in midwinter. At this
time of the year bird life is more easily studied
for leaves are of? the trees and migrant species
are gone. There are no wild Howers and few
insects. Thus there is lacking the multiplicity of
life forms which are present at other seasons
which, by their bewildering abundance. make the
task of making their acquaintance seem hopeless
to the novice and drives him back into the class-

room to his books or to his
“sessions” at the fraternity
house. However, with the nu-

It is an encouraging sign that in in- CICUS 0f nature kHOWICdge

creasing numbers colleges are intro-
ducing courses in the training of
recreation leaders. A study made by
Dr. Marie M. Ready of the Bureau of
Education, Department of the Interior,
showed over 125 colleges, universi-
ties, normal schools and other teacher
training institutions
athletics, games, rhyt mics, club lead-
ership, play theories, drama, pageantry
and other phases of community recrea—

gained in winter study, the
stage is set for the many
new Horal and faunal arrivals
which some with early spring.
Most of the work in geology,
astronomy, and camping can
be carried on during the win—
ter as easily as in the spring
and summer.

(Continued on page 353)

iving courses in

The

S I stood on the sta-
A tion platform one
morning and saw
the 8:22 train go by with
its load of commuters, I
seemed to be looking at a movie, each window a
frame of the film and each picturing “Man read-
ing newspaper.” It is a fairly universal practice
for the morning and evening tr00ps of workers
to read the papers.

Interest in the news, and available time, to-
gether form the lure of leisure reading. And if
leisure time is not obtainable for reading the news
en route, time will be found during the day or
evening for glancing at the headlines or running

through the favorite section.

What Do Americans Read?

The American people read the neWSpapers; this
fact is well established. They make the old conun—
drum a reality: “What is black and white, and
read all over?” One
survey of 314 adults in
a metropolis showed 98
per cent of the men and
93 per cent of the women
r e a d i n g newspapers.1L
Nor is it any wonder;
for this marvelous pro-
duction, written, edited,
printed and distributed
wit hi n twenty - four
hours, contains not only
news and comments, but
many magazine features which give entertain-
ment, advice and instruction. It is read for in-

formation and recreation and chiefiy in leisure
time.

paniona

Next to the newspapers come, as would be
expected, the periodicals. The same survey of
314 adults shows 76.5 per cent of them reading
magazines.

@eriodicals are edited to satisfy the leisure time

 

1Quoted in Gray, W. S.. & Munroe, Ruth. The reading inter-
ests and habits of adults. Macmillan, 1929. $3.50.

By Francis K. W. Drury

Executive Assistant in Adult Education
American Library Association

"The teachers of English in American high
schools may wield an influence of inestimable
worth provided they have a passion for souls
and a passion for books. . .
of their ositions English teachers may be com- .

Ele explorers into alluring fields. Their It-
first and greatest opportunit and privilege is
that of creating a desire on t e part of students
to explore with them.
reading saturates a youth, a great work is well
started."—Berenice Beggs.

. . . Once a love of

Lure of Leisure Reading

reading of their sub-
scribers.)T’ime insists on
saving time for the busy
executive; the Literary
Digest boils down the
news for concentrated consumption; the Saturday
Evening Post lures with fact and fiction in at-
tractive form; the American Magazine presents
the success appeal; the class magazine gives the
news for its Special clientele.

(Periodicals and books embody the three typical
forms of presentation: information, to give us
facts; inSpiration, to lift us to higher planes of
thought and feeling; recreation, to provide mental
and spiritual outlets and to help us forget our
troubles in the experiences of otheis

@eisure reading, then, may be with a purpose,
for the good of it; or without a purpose, for the
fun of it. wAudiences are attracted by similar
motives to the theatre, the movies, and the radio.

'They want good'entertainment and are disap-

pointed if they don’t get
it. But amusement pure
and simple is sure to pall.
It is like a diet of sweets
and cake. The meal
must have some body to
Our entertainments
must be enjoyable. They
satisfy better if they
make us think, and feel,
and see; best, if they
make us act.

(Books likewise may
spur to self-activity. To insure reading, they
should be brief and readable. Pe0ple ex-
pect the exceptional in print and are right-
ly irritated if the book is not interesting.
They demand that a book shall be written in an
enjoyable, humanized style. Nor is this too much
to ask of an author. What he has to say must
hold the reader or he can be “tuned out” as
readily as a radio program.

When can this recreational reading be done?
One can usually arrange to do what he really

333

. By the very virtue

334 THE LURE OF LEISURE READING

wants to do. In this case, each reader must lit the
time into his own schedule. The important thing
is not to neglect or postpone it. Like all other
leisure activities, its profit arises from the in-
creased ability to do the day’s work better. We
all hope some-day to hnd an Elysian field where
we may sit and read the books which we have
passed by in the daily strenuous life of home or
field or office. But retirement to such a Utopia is
a vain. hope for millions of Americans. Many a
housewife has set aside and stored up unread
magazines in the h0pe, fond but false, that some
day she can get them out and read what now she
has deferred'.

The housewife likewise must budget her time,
though woman’s work is never done, and seize
upon the scattered minutes for her reading. In
the recent survey already mentioned, the 110
women averaged 76.7 minutes a day for reading,
divided into books, 26 minutes; magazines, 22
minutes; and new3papers, 28.7 minutes. The 204
men averaged 98.9 minutes per day for reading:
books, 28.8 minutes; magazines, 25 minutes;
newspapers, 45.1 minutes.

What Shall We Read?

(\Nhat, then, shall one read for recreation? Cer-
tainly what one likes best—“in brief, sir, study
what you most affect.” It may be the current
best seller, or the book of the month, or what
people are talking about. Or it may be a sterling
favorite which has come down to us from other
days.

It is at this point that the library comes in to
help and advise. Lists of books, new and old, are
available with annotations. Is it fiction that you
wish? Or biography, or travel? Do you wish to
enjoy art, cultivate literary appreciation, or under—
stand the meaning of history? Ask the librarian
of your public library or your state library exten-
sion agency for books of creative criticism, for
interpretations of literature, for outlines and
guides which will help you to get the best. Librar-
ians are now serving people with books, as con-
trasted with serving books to the people. “It is
table service as against a lunch counter.

The Reading with a Purpose series of the
American Library Association is especially de-
signed to guide the reader who approaches a new

I“

field and asks for directions. Many other aids
are known to the library worker, such as Novels
too good to miss2; Books for home reading“;
library lists on biography, essays, travel, and mod-
ern drama; The winged horse‘, the story of the
poets and their poetry; and How to read history”.
All of these allurements are yours if you will yield
to their siren call and ask for guidance at the
library.

Leisure Reading for Education

Leisure reading, however, may be not only for
recreation but for education. You are resolved to
develop yourself, to better your position, to learn
more about your job, to improve both your voca-
tion and your avocation.

Here again books, pamphlets, and periodicals
can help you. Your friends and acquaintances can
tell what helped them, your former instructors
may advise as to the best or the latest, and your
librarian can act as a reader’s aid in guiding to
reading matter which is reliable. A library, if sup-
ported properly by its community, can furnish
material on nearly every subject—child training,
camp activities, out-of-door hobbies, poultry rais-
ing, salesmanship, radio, and a thousand and one
other subjects.

First aid is ready at hand in a list entitled, 1000
useful books“. Similar lists are also available in
many special subjects, as business books’. Read—
able books in many subjects8 is a good place to
start, designating as it does “first” books, simply
written.

Libraries are developing a more intensive per-
sonal service for adults so that a course of reading
and study can be outlined and the reader can start
on a voyage of discovery with adequate sailing
directions. Carlyle wrote, “Blessed is he who has
found his work.” With such a chart of reading in
hand, the leisure time reader and student will be
equally blessed if he now works his find.

 

2Novels too good to miss. H. W. \Vilson Co., 958 University
Avenue, New York City. 35c.

8Books for home reading. National Council of Teachers of
English, 211 \Vest 68th Street, Chicago. 20c.

‘Auslandcr, 1., and Hill, F. E. The winged horse. Doubleday,
G927. $3.50 and $1.50.

l‘Davies, \V. \V. How to read history. Doran. 1924. o.p.

930ne7§housand useful books. American Library Association,
1 0. c.
(p 7Newark Public Library. 2400 business books. H. \V. \Vilson
Co. 1920. Supplement: Business books, 1920-1926. \Vilson, 1927.
Together, $11.00.

sFelscnthal, Emma. Readable books in many subjects. American
Library Association, 1929, 40c.

The Relation of Recreation

to Vocation

It is not at all presump-
tuous to state that psy-
-chologists in the future
may so analyze each vo-
cation from the stand-
point of its enrichment
of life that certain recre-
ations may be prescribed
to compensate for any
deficiencies the vocation
may present. Any marked
repressions or narrowing
inHuences will thus be
balanced by a program
of recreational interests.

/

HYSICAL Education has often been ac-

cused of claiming too many objectives. The

editor has never been convinced that the
claims of our profession have been extreme, al-
though he is quite ready to agree that many of
the objectives have failed in their fulfillment,
owing to inadequate programs or faulty emphasis.
Nevertheless, the possibilities of attainment still
remain.

It is this faith that justifies the addition of a
new 'objective to the many that have both been
accepted and disputed. In short, there seems to
be every indication that Physical Education will
more and more become an assisting factor in vo-
cational guidance. This new approach to mea-
suring the child’s vocational tendencies has one
advantage over all other approaches in that it
considers the spontaneous activities of the child,
that is, his self-chosen and self-directed activities,
which after all, are more apt to be the true guides
to his interests, capacity, and character. Too
many of the vocational approaches of the past
have placed the child in artificial situations and
therefore have failed to obtain the desired results.

 

The Recreations of Students as a Factor in
Vocational Guidance

The average parent will quite readily agree to
the idea that the courses his son or daughter

By Elmer D. Mitchel]

Director of Intramura] Athletics,
University of Michigan

elects in school will be an infiuencing factor in
his later vocation. He will agree even more read-
ily that the subjects his child particularly likes
will be a much greater determining factor. What
would this same parent say, however, if he were
told that his child’s recreations are indicative of
a later choice of lifework?

Possibly some observant father has noticed his
son negotiating a profitable stamp trade and has
decided that a shrewd business man was in the
making; or has stood by while his Boy Scout son
put a splint on an injured dog and has visioned a
future surgeon. in the family; or has proudly
watched his son manipulate the homemade radio
and has planned an Engineering course in college
for him. If so, the parent might be willing to
concede that recreational activities have some re-
lation to vocation.

This conclusion that there is a decided relation-
ship between an individual’s play and his later
choice of a career, was brought to my attention
rather unexpectedly while engaged in a survey of
the recreations of the University students. The
findings of this study showed to a surprising ex-
tent that each department, such as Law, Engineer-
ing, Medicine, had its own special recreational in-
terests. This led to the new point of View that if
the profession showed a type for recreation, then
undoubtedly, vice versa, the recreation would fur-
nish an index to the profession. This conclusion
was strengthened by a reading of the work of a
Swiss psychologist, Pierre Bovet, in which he
drew the same parallel, "pointing out as one ex-
ample that diplomats were usually tennis players.
He stated that tennis, like diplomacy, is a game of
give and take. It is also a well mannered contest,
depending on ability and skill; a balanced sport
as well as a fighting one. Spurred on by this sug-
gestion, I began to make a more scientific study
of student interests. As a result, the records of
over five thousand entering men students have

335

3.36 RELATION OF RECREATION TO VOCATION

been studied during the last four years. This is
a mere beginning, for we feel that the results will
become increasingly accurate and significant as
larger totals are obtained.

With the evidence from these sources, we were
able to get a fairly clear picture of the preferred
recreations of the students in each department.

To be more explicit, the students of Law and
of Journalism, whose interests are very similar,
indicated as a group decided preferences for class
room subjects of social nature such as History,
English, Languages, Economics, Sociology, and
Civics, and at the same time for recreations of the
social type such as school debating, dramatics

newspapers and publications, politics, and parties.-

In physical activities, they preferred the type of
athletics which is usually featured by country
clubs—to be exact, golf, tennis, swimming, hand—
ball, dancing, etc. In passing it might be added
that these students are the greatest “joiners” on
the campus and participate in a larger number of
school activities than any other group.

In contrast to the Laws, the Engineering stu-
dents show an entirely different line of interests.
Their interests run to physical properties and to
natural phenomena rather than social. They are
apt to dislike History,- English, and Language; but
to enjoy Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Man-
ual Training, and Mechanical Drawing. They are
especially interested in experimental and collect-
ing hobbies. These hobbies closely resemble their
work. It is a small jump from model aeroplanes
to aeronautics; from homemade wireless and radio
sets to electrical engineering. In their active sports,
the engineering students as a group prefer the
informal type, such as swimming, hunting, fish-
ing, skating, skiing and hiking. While many as
individuals may take part in organized games like
football and basketball, their interests, totalled as
a group, fall below the average in these sports.
Even within the Engineering groups, differences
can be defined ; for example, the Civil Engineer,
whose work is to be of a vigorous, outdoor nature,
has a stronger preference for outdoor sports than
the Electrical Engineer whose work is necessarily
more confining. The architect, who is an asso-
ciate member of the Engineering School, differs
in that he has a smaller variety of interests and
concentrates heavily on them, particularly on hob-
bies of an artistic nature.

The Physical Education student, whose train-
ing has largely been in big muscle games, seldom
expresses a preference for manual training or

shop work. From the standpoint of enjoying an
active outdoor life, the Physical Education group
and the Forestry groups are quite similar. But
they do differ radically in their choice of Sports!
The Physical Education group stands head and
shoulders above other groups in their liking for
team games. The Foresters, on the other hand,
are outstanding in their likening for informal rec-
reations, such as camping, woodcraft, scouting,
boating, hunting, and fishing. Both, however,
have a very decided liking for physical activities.

Boys taking the Business Administration
course and those taking the Literary course show
but small differences when compared as groups.
This is easy to understand because many of the
Literary students intend to enter business upon
graduation. Both of these groups run above the
average in their liking for participation in school
activities and in active sports; and they have a
decided preference for the social studies and the

languages. V

The Medical student really presents a problem
—not that he does not enter into recreations but
rather because he is average in all his recreative
interests. In his studies he does show a decided
liking for the sciences of Chemistry, Biology,
Physics, and Mathematics, but in his activities
and recreations he is neutral. This might‘be con-
strued as a trait peculiar to the profession as phy-
sicians must be willing to sacrifice their leisure
to the demands of their work. They do take part
in varied activities when time permits but as a
group do not grow enthusiastic about any one.

The Dental students are somewhat similar to
the Medical group in their liking for the sciences;
but in activities and recreations, however, they
are more like the students in the Business and
Literary Colleges.

The future teachers, as would be expected, dif-
fer largely among themselves in the subjects they
like and are planning to teach. From the stand-
point of school subjects they do not form a uni-
form group in their likes as do the other profes-
sions. \Vhen, however, we turn to school activi—
ties and recreations, we find a distinctive type in
this respect: of all groups they participate least
in ntunber of activities and amount of time spent
upon them. \Vhether this is because the teacher
is naturally retiring or whether he grinds on his
subjects to the exclusion of other school inter—
ests, I am not prepared to say. In particular, his
physical interests are few; and, if anything, his

(Continued on page 353)

 

This novel housé was made by Houston children for their puppet show, “Hansel and Gretel.” The
roof, chimney and porch were Graham crackers; the walls, orange gum slices; the door, hard

candies, and the posts, peppermint sticks.

The Season in the Playground Theatre

An increasing participation in Playground Dramatics
is characterizing the Recreation Movement 'today

AST season’s drama reports from municipal
L playgrounds furnish many interesting side-

. lights on the little amateur’s world. The inva—
sion of drama by children may presage, it seems,
the beginnings of a tradition of beauty for the
children of America. Vast possibilities for sound
cultural development lie in children’s drama. Con-
sidering it is only a few years ago that drama
began to be generally received in the recreation
movement, it is exhilarating to note that Memphis
held its fifth annual inter-playground tournament
this year and that Dallas, in its annual one-act
tournament for junior, senior and intermediate
groups, has 'attained' such a high standard that
only royalty plays are used in the senior group.

Playground children now write their own plays
and pageants and produce them not only for their
friends on the playgrounds but frequently for
the convalescent wards in hospitals and sanitar—
iums. Local papers carry articles and photo-
graphs making the communities conscious of these
children who are as eager to develop the tech-
nique of acting and production as they are to
excel in games or track events.

With the coming of drama to the playground
‘a distinctly new note is sounded in recreation.
The competition that brings zest to play, the skill

sought after in the game, the adaptation of the
individual to the team, the beauty of poised bodies
performing feats—all these are found in drama
and with them the joy that comes only when the
individual is lost to himself in the service of one
of the great arts.

The following notes will give a bird’s—eye view
of a few of last year’s achievements.

Tournaments and Contests

This year the Memphis inter-playground tour-
nament might have been called a Jacob and Wil-
helm Grimm Festival. Each of the thirteen play-
grounds participating selected a Grimm fairy tale
and arranged a pantomime of the story. All chil—
dren participating had attended rhythm classes
during the previous winter and spring and the
technique acquired was applied in working out'
the pantomime. All participating wore the regu-
lation blue rhythm costumes to which were added
only such simple accessories as flowers, a scarf,
or wings. Along with the drama tournament the
playground directors seized the Opportunity for
introducing a handcraft competition in the form
of a program contest. The three most artistic

programs from each playground were submitted
to the tournament judges.

337

338 PLAYGROUND THEATRE

The Dallas, Texas, one-act play contest this
year included 18 junior, 11 intermediate, and 10
senior entries. Royalty fees for the senior plays
were raised by the boys and girls themselves by
selling tickets on their playgrounds.

Five hundred boys and girls took part in the
Play Day held in Springfield, Illinois, last August.
One of the most interesting competitive events of
the day was the drama contest in which four
playgrounds took part. The plays presented were
Mother Autumn and the North Winds, The
Magic Ring, The Princess and the Crystal Pipe,
and The Stolen Prince. The patients of St.
John’s Sanitarium were entertained by the chil-
dren of the playground with dramatic programs.
This group also presented their plays before the
Domestic Science School for Girls at the Illinois
State Fair.

Plays Everywhere

Throughout the summer season, groups from
the various playgrounds gave weekly programs
of from two to five plays in the beautiful Chil-
dren’s Outdoor Theatre in Mosswood Playground
in Oakland, California. Many of the plays pro-
duced were written by playground directors and
a few by the children themselves. In addition to
these matinees, the Vagabond Theatre visited
eleven centers, thus carrying on a wide and vigor-
ous program. H. E. Troxel, supervisor of edu-
cational dramatics, feels that the writing and pro-
duction of plays under the sympathetic guidance
of a special director of educational dramatics is
a great step forward in democratizing this par-
ticular phase of children’s drama.

Perth Amboy, New Jersey, introduced drama
on its eleven playgrounds last summer with such
results that the director of recreation plans to
double the time devoted to this branch of recrea-
tion next year. Each playground produced one
play during July and August, and from‘August
18th the talent of all playgrounds was combined
for the production of an Operetta, The Snow
Queen, which proved a fitting climax to a most
successful summer of experiment.

Less than a year ago the Flamingo Park Play-
ers, named after one of the playgrounds, were
organized in Miami Beach, Florida. Since then
16 plays have been produced and, in addition, a
number of studio performances have been pre-
sented. More than 50 different persons partici-
pated in these plays. Recently the city abandoned
the old City Hall for the new one. The group of
players have asked the City Commission that the

 

Con rtesy School Life

At Los Angeles' Puppet Theatre

old building be turned over to their group as 3.
Civic Theatre and when the Commission learned
that more than 700 people were interested, they
granted the request. The old City Hall is now
being renovated and remodeled, most of the work
being done by members of the players’ group
themselves.

Puppetry

Houston children are becoming expert in the
making and manipulation of puppets. This year
the marionettes were made on a larger scale than
ever before, the standard height being 12 instead
of 8 inches. Papier-maché heads proved more
p0pular than ever. Fourteen of the 18 play-
grounds for white children adopted this new form
instead of the old method of stthng a silk stock-
ing with cotton. For the tournament the play-
grounds were divided into four districts and pre-
liminary contests were held with a judge for each
group who selected the two best shows from each
district. These two competed in the finals at
the central library. The four negro playgrounds
gathered at one ground for their tournament and
much unique and attractive work was exhibited.

The response to puppetry on the part of the
children attending the playgrounds maintained by
the Los Angeles Board of Education, far exceeded
the expectations of the Department of Physical
Education, in charge of the work. Scraps of
wood from lumber yards, obtained at no expense
except that of transportation, were used in making-
the bodies of the figures. Even the smaller of the

PLAYGROUND THEATRE 339

children molded heads and hands from papier—
maché, made from newspapers shredded and
mixed with flour and water paste. The costum-
ing was done entirely by the children, and the
figures were dressed in scraps of material brought
from their homes. Pieces of yellow or brown
yarn were frayed out and made to stimulate brun-
ette or golden locks. Out-of-door theatres were
constructed from waste material and small stages
were set up on the grounds of the schools, some—
times on the school steps. Among the puppet plays
presented were Peter Rabbit, the Three Witches,
Little Red Riding Hood, and puppet minstrel
shows. Ali Baba and His Forty Thieves were
created by the children and produced in various
centers. These figures were colorful, as were the
pirate figures, which were especially appealing to
the small boys. Little girls gloried in fashioning
wicked stepmothers, and Cinderellas, and wild
witches in peaked hats armed with the traditional
brooms.

Playground Dramatics in East Orange

In a program of dramatics at the Elmwood Park
Field House in East Orange, New Jersey, screens
made by local carpenters are used. The frames,
constructed of heavy wood, are made with grooves
which permit of the insertion of panels of com-
position board which can easily be changed as
the scenes required. This change of scenery in—
volves very little extra expense. The panels are
decorated by older boys and girls who use water

 

East Orange, N. J., Boys Make Their Scenery

color scene paint. When necessary, a panel can
be washed off and used for another scene, but
with the interchange of panels this need not be
done and the panels are stored for future use.

During the past summer a play was given every
two weeks during July and August. Children as
young as four years of age took part and the older
group plays had casts of 16 and 17 year-old boys
and girls. The costumes are for the most part
made on the playground or at home by the chil—
dren. The material is furnished by the play-
ground, and the costumes become playground
pr0perty and are kept for future use in the cos-
tume wardrobe maintained by the Board of Rec-
reation Commissioners.

Note: One-Act Plays for Young Folks by
M. A. Jagendorf gives detailed directions for mak-
ing screens and panels.

Pageants Popular

-A city-wide pageant entitled Spirit of Play was
presented last summer in Altoona, Pennsylvania.
Indian and pioneer children were shown enjoying
games and free play in spite of the hardships of
war and wilderness. Later episodes pictured ur-
ban life before the playgrounds were established
and finally showed a present day playground in
full swing. It was a well organized pageant, tell-
ing the playground story most effectively.

As part of the annual field day, The Enchanted
Forest was produced by children of the Utica,
New York, playgrounds. Midsummer night
r e v e l s in
f a i r y land
f u r ni shed
t h e theme
f o r th i s
pageant and
gave oppor—
tunity f o 'r
m a n y de-
lightful
dances b y
fairies,
e l v e s ;
b r o w n ies
and 1 e p r e—
chauns who,
by command
0 f K i n g
O b e r o n ,
p r e s e nted
their revels
before one

.440 1 ’1.. 'l YUR U ( .VU T1115. ITRI:

fortunate little mortal who had won the good will
of the fairy king. Following the pageant came
athletic games and sports of various kinds.
Nearly 3,000 children were transported to the
Frederick T. Proctor Park for the occasion
through the courtesy of local merchants.

The adventures of the happy piper and his
followers, the spirits of joy and play, in their
\isit to Laughter Town were presented in August
by the playground children of Cincinnati, Ohio.

The pageant, written by Mabel Madden, in charge
of the community activities of the Public Recrea-

tion Commission, was given in the Zoological
Garden in connection with the annual Health and
Pure Food Show.

The fifth annual playground pageant, The Land
of H eart’s Desire, was presented in Birmingham,
Alabama. Here, too, an original pageant was used
to fit the particular needs of the children. Agnes
Coughlin, director of recreation, was the author.

A pageant based on local history, written by a
member of the staff of the Department of Play
and Recreation, was the season’s drama contribu-
tion in Roanoke, Virginia. Six episodes depicted
the growth of the community from a period ante-

dating the Revolutionary War. A number of the
costumes were made under the direction of play-
ground workers in the handcraft hours on the
playgrounds and many were borrowed from
townspeople whose ancestors were represented in
the pageant. About 7,000 people witnessed the
spectacle.

The children of the municipal playgrounds of
Cambridge, Massachusetts, observed the 300th
anniversary of the settlement of their city by pre-
senting the beautiful pageant, Our Cambridge
Heritage. One of the most interesting episodes
was that showing Puritan children in games of
the period.

Thirty-five hundred girls representing Detroit’s
140 playgrounds took part in the sixteenth annual
pageant of the Department of Recreation held in
August as a climax of the summer playground ac-
tivities. The presentation this year was a dramatic
interpretation of the popular children’s story, Dick
l'Vlrittington and His Cat. The cast of 3,500 girls
was gaily costumed and provided a colorful sing-
ing and dancing background for the story. The
story of the pageant was broadcast over a local
station. .

 

In Salt Lake City, as well as in East Orange, the children make the scenery for their playground
productions. This young craftsman is working on the stage setting for "The Crooked House,"
presented by children of the playgrounds maintained by the City Recreation Department.

RUEK CLASSIFICATION i

gnu-«ram [mama "twirme

 

PRGPDRT_IBN-ELEMENT5
m EARTH‘S rgusr

Activities that were an outgrowth
of a unit on rocks and minerals.

Elementary Science Provides
Leisure-Time Activities

By Goldie M. johnson, Supervisor of Elementary Science
Montclair Public Schools, Montclair, N. I.

HILDREN are naturally interested in the
‘ things that are going on in the world about

them. Realizing this the Montclair Public '

Schools are giving their children many opportuni-
ties to become better acquainted with that environ-
ment through the study of elementary science. As
a result the children are finding answers to many
of their questions that would otherwise go unan—
swered. Science is stimulating them to perform
many worthwhile leisure-time activities and it is
acting as an aid to them in following any Special
interest that they may have in science or in the
carrying out of their hobbies. '

The Purpose of the Program

An aim of the elementary science program is to
provide experiences that will aid the child to in—
terpret his ever—changing environment, and help

him to secure a larger understanding of the forces
causing these changes. It is desired that he will
have a better understanding of the physical world
that surrounds him as the condition of the soil.
rocks, climate, atmosphere and light. It would
be impossible now to forecast what the child’s en—
vironment will be in the next twenty—Five years,
but truths and principles of science will remain
practically the same. There is a desire to intro—
duce the child to an understanding of the scientific
principles and methods which remain constant in
an everchanging world. If children become ac—
quainted with the scientific principles now they
may use them to interpret their environment in
the future. It is hoped that through a study of
these facts and principles children will become
more science-minded and will learn to think for
themselves. Science is really becoming a part of

341

342 LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES

the Montclair child’s everyday life and thinking.

Another aim is to help free children from many
superstitious beliefs. One often hears this state-
ment, “Oh, but if you count the stars you will get
warts,” or, “If you kill a snake and hang it on
the branch of a tree, and leave it there, it will
rain before night. I know it will because I tried it
twice and it rained both times.” When children
learn a few facts about what stars are, and about
what causes rain, they will usually reason that
their superstitious ideas cannot be correct and will
replace these beliefs by scientific facts.

The science work in Montclair is carried on by
the regular classroom teachers aided by the science
supervisor. A definite science program has been
developed in all grades three to six inclusive.
Though there is not, as yet, a definite program in
the primary grades, much science work is being
done there and plans are being made for the de-
velopment of a program for all of the elementary
grades. .

In the deve10pment of the intermediate grade
program the children were often given their choice
of subjects to study. In determining the chil-
dren’s interests leading questions were asked, as,
“In what are you especially interested in science ?”
“What are all of the things that you think we
might include in a study of science?” “\Vhich of
these topics would you like to study ?” “How
many of you have a science hobby ?" These ques-
tions, followed by pupil discussions, brought out
many topics within pupil experiences. Children’s
interests were found to lie in all of the fields of
science—astronomy, biology, chemistry, geology
and physics, and children chose to study topics in
each of these fields. The tentative course of study
thus developed provides a content that will cover
children’s interests in all of the fields of science,
that is, it is a well balanced science program.

How It Is Done

Much of the science work is done in science
units, which may or may not be correlated with
English, social studies and reading, but the science
unit is taught for science sake. In these units
children are given many opportunities for leader-
ship, self expression and individual activities
which are often carried on during their leisure
time. For example, units have arisen from pupil
collections that were brought to school. After
one week-end several children brought in a string
of eggs fastened together by a gelatious substance.
The question arose as to whether or not they were
toad’s eggs or f rog’s eggs. This necessitated a bit

of research which disclosed the fact that toad’s
eggs are those that are laid in a string, while
frog’s eggs are in a round like mass. The eggs
were cared for, and hatched into about seventy-
five tadpoles. Before this unit was completed
newts’ eggs, tadpoles, young newts with gills and
older newts were brought to aid in building the
class aquaria. Many children by this time had
made private collections of their own which they
cared for at home.

A study of astronomy is a very popular unit, as
children like facts about stars. They enjoy study-
ing such t0pics as, (a) what stars are, (b) their
size, (c) their distance from the earth. They
often follow this by a discussion of the theories of
how the earth was formed. Often charts of the
Solar System and drawings of planets with rings
or satellites are made and exhibited. During the
study of such units several classes met at their
school buildings in the evening to locate constella-
tions, certain stars and planets. They often
brought telescopes from home to aid them in their
observations. Several children made special trips
elsewhere to look through larger telescopes and
gave reports to the class on their return.

Many classes follow the unit on stars and the
formation of the earth by a unit on rocks and the
changes in the surface of the earth. In this they
discuss, (a) how rocks are formed, (b) how soil
is made, (c) the classification of rocks, and ((1)
changes the surface of the earth has undergone.
\Vhile they are studying these topics classes often
make individual and class collections of rocks and
minerals. \Vith the aid of the teacher and super-
visor the children identify and label their im-
portant rocks.

Many field trips are taken by classes to give
them first hand experiences. An old quarry in
Montclair makes an ideal place to study rock for-
mation and erosion. Trips to this quarry are
usually led by children who have already ac-
quainted themselves with the quarry. Some
classes go to the Museum of Natural History in
New York City where they examine models of
canyons and various other formations of the
earth’s surface. They also gain an insight into the
kinds of rocks and the elements of which our
earth is made.

One such trip was taken by a sixth grade class,
which stimulated them to work out many indi-
vidual projects in connection with the unit. Most
of these projects were correlated with art, English
and social studies. In art, pastels and paintings
were made of the Grand Canyon, the Great Falls

LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES 343

of the Yellowstone and Crater Lake. A study
of the location of minerals and their effect upon
the history of the United States and civilization,
was the stimulus for the making of a map which
showed the location of minerals in the United
States. Poems and stories about the elements and
about trips which were taken, were written for
English. Several purely science projects were
worked out as, a chart that showed rock classifica-
tion, and relief maps. An excellent rock collection
was made and exhibited in a case that 'was con-
structed by a group of boys in their shop work.
During the weeks in which this unit was in prog—
ress practically all school activity was centered
about the unit and the class gained a better under-

standing of the earth. )3
_ Popular P ojects

One unit lends itself particularly well to indi-
vidual pupil projects, and that is the study of elec-
tricity. For example, one unit started with the
study of magnets. The teacher opened the field
of experimentation by demonstrating how unlike
poles of magnets attract, and like poles repel one
another. Later the principle of the compass was
shown by a needle which floated on a cork in
water. The subject of electro-magnets followed
and the children were told of certain books that
would help them. There was no extra time in this
teacher’s program for the making of projects, yet
as the unit progressed through simple principles of
electricity, individual home-made devices appeared
in the school room. Electric buzzers and bells
were wired. Some children went a step farther
and made electric questioners by using a buzzer
and battery. Some questioners revealed the loca-
tion of capitals of the different countries in South
America which the class was studying in social
studies. Other questioners located chief cities in
the countries of South America or told the chief
products of those countries. Simple electric buz-
zers were made, a simple two-way sending and re-
ceiving telegraph set was built, and one boy con-
structed a little toy motor. These children were
very proud of their results and enjoyed exhibiting
and demonstrating their projects to the class and
to visitors.

Other units are also favorites. One is the study

of water and air pressure which incites experi-
mentation to show that water and air have pres—
sure. Another is the making of vegetable and
flower gardens which is greatly enjoyed by
younger children who take great pride in their
gardens. These gardens-are cared for in the
summer by children who live nearby.

Planning the Summer Program

Because of the children’s interest in collections
and various other science activities the supervisor,
near the close of the first year in which science
was taught, began talking with the children con-
cerning things which they might wish to do dur-
ing the summer. The children were pleased with
the idea and suggested things that they could do
at the sea shore, at home, or at camps. Each class
decided which of their suggestions were best, and
these suggestions from all of the classes were in—
corporated into one list together with a supple-
mentary list of books which might prove useful.
A sheet of suggestions was given to each child
with the understanding that he was to do the ac-
tivities only if he wished to do so, and to do only
those that interested him. At this time, also, the
activities were explained and demonstrations made
when necessary.

The first week of school, the following Septem-
ber, found children bringing their trophies of
shells, rocks, leaf booklets, cocoons and various
other objects as a result of their summer’s work.
The result of these activities, in many cases, de-
termined the first science work that was done in
the class rooms that fall.

Parents also became interested in these activi-
ties. In one school the Parent-Teacher’s Associa-
tion held a Fair at one of their meetings for the
children to exhibit their summer’s work. Prizes
were awarded for the best collections and exhibits.

During the past June, when the subject was
mentioned, the children responded enthusiastically
in favor of doing activities again this summer.
New suggestions were made and it was decided
that certain activities of the previous summer were
to be used again. As before, the activities were
mimeographed and one copy was given to each
child as a vacation guide.

Recreation Progress

N going to Canada for its 1931 session, the
I Recreation Congress visits a country some

of whose cities have been conducting public
recreation programs for
more than a quarter of
a century. The first or-
ganized playground in
Hamiton, Ontario, to use
an example, was Opened
twenty—seven years ago.
In the last ten years the
cities of Canada have
been making steady and
in some cases rapid rec-
reation progress.

EXpenditures for pub-
lic recreation in fifteen
cities last year were
$902,893.25, more than
triple the outlay in 1921,
ten years before. In the
same period, playgrounds
under leadership grew
from 204 to 303, and
year round leaders of
recreation from 47 to
161. The proportion of
men to women workers has undergone a pro-
nounced shift. In 1921, there were 207 men.
twenty—eight less than the women’s total. Last
year the number of men had increased to 567.
against 347 women.

Toronto, the convention city, has one of the

notable public recreation programs in North
America. Its parks are extensive and beauti-
f ul, many of them being peculiarly inviting be-
cause of unusual topOgraphy. Among other
facilities there are 57 parks and 21 board of
educational playgrounds under leadership, 45
tennis courts, 41 athletic fields, 39 baseball dia-
monds, and three bathing beaches. There is an
extensive program of league sports.

Toronto is a homogeneous city, 90 percent
of its population being of British origin.
Seventy percent of its families own their own
homes. The mayor of the city in explaining
why Toronto’s crime rate was relatively low,
said among other things, “\Ve have practically
done away with slums. Then we have recrea-

344

 

Out-of-doors In Canada means
recreation for all ta 8 t e s

in Canada

tion for improving children’s time. \Vhen a child
grows up non—criminal, he remains that way when
older.”

Cities, east and west,
are also carrying on ex-
tensive programs of pub—
lic recreation. Montreal
has 303 playgrounds ad-
ministered by the muni-
cipality and 13 by the
Parks and Playgrounds
Association. This city.
Ottawa and Quebec are
well known for their
winter sports programs.
Vancouver in the west is
notable for its six bath-
ing beaches and 106 ten-
nis courts. Calgary. Van-
couver, \Vinnipeg. Ot-
tawa, and Montreal have
municipal golf courses.

Outside the cities.
C an a d a, as is well
known, has unusual at—
nis courts. Calgary, Van-
sportsman and fisherman.
Those who attend the Recreation Congress will
find every comfort that the best hotels afford,
and every outdoor attraction that the sportsman
and recreationist could wish for.

The open road of Canada has
its own incomparable charm

‘1

 

 

ON April 30th fifty chil-
dren took part in sixteen
one—act plays at South
Park Community House
No. 3. A list of plays selected by the librarian at
South Park was posted on the bulletin board. The
children chose their own book and play, selected
the actors, set their scenes, and secured their cos-
tumes. At another community house a group of
twenty club girls, under the direction of Miss
Fannie Kelman, produced The C oming of Spring,
found in Essentials of English (Lower Grades)
by Pearson and Kirchwey. This is a Greek play
based on the story of Pluto, Mother Ceres and
Proserpina. A Greek circle dance for nymphs
was incorporated and a Greek plastic dance used
as a background. Rubinstein’s Melody in F in
song was used with very lovely effect and cos-
tumes for the nymphs, tie—dyed, added beauty to
the scenes. The play was unanimously awarded
first prize. It was given in connection with a
Junior Stunt Program as a closing activity at one
of the community buildings.

Playground Drama
in Buffalo

 

EARLY in July the

Evansville, Indiana, City
Council voted in favor of

a $210,000 bond issue for
playgrounds. Of this amount $200,000 will be

used for a playground in the center of the negro

district and $10,000 for a neighborhood play-
ground in the eastern part of the town.

A Bond Issue
in Evansville

THE May, 1931, issue of
the Research Quarterly
contains an article regard-
ing a study of play facili-
ties of 71 elementary schools in 71 cities of over
20,000 population, by West  Altenburg. The
study has to do particularly with gymnasiums,
school playgrounds, and surfacing.

Play Facilities
J in Schools

ON May 12th the Evans-

ville, Indiana, Civic Choral
Society, accompanied by
the Evansville symphonic
orchestra, presented Haydn’s Creation. This
choral organization, promoted by the Department
of Municipal Recreation, represents the union of
the Choral Arts Society, composed largely of
Evansville college students and the ensemble choir
made up only of people belonging to church choirs
of the city, augmented by others interested in sing-
ing. The enrollment has now reached three
hundred.

Dr. E. E. Harper, director of the chorus,
writes: “Professional instructors of music sang
together with their most inexperienced students.
Soloists of professional standing sat beside men
and women who could not read their notes and
who were compelled to learn the words literally
by rote. Executive heads of great industrial,
manufacturing and commercial organizations,
prominent in civic life and philanthropy, shared
seats with men who each day go to humble tasks

345

A Civic
Choral Society

346 WORLD AT PLAY

1' I" .«O on" "W '" " '
l i I' -

“CHICAGO”

The “CHICAGO Line" of playground equipment includes:
Slides, see-saws, strides, ladders, and scores of other products,
all “CHICAGO” built—of better materials, sturdier construc-
tion, more careful workmanship.

“CHICAGO” Equipment is slightly higher in price, but is
Write for NEW far more economical—for it is safer,
Catalog "B" stronger, and more serviceable.

CHICAGO GYMNASIUM EQUIPMENT CO.
1835 West Lake Street. CHICAGO, U. S.A.

Official

Pi tching Shoes

For professionals—amateurs—old
or young—indoors or out, there’s a
Diamond Shoe to suit any condi-
tion. Also stakes—carrying eases—
rule hooks, percentage charts and
score pads. Every one who enjoys
healthful recreation will enjoy
horseshoe pitching.

D I A M O N D
CALK HORSESHOE co.

4610 Grand Ave., Duluth. Minn.

 

 

and work for a daily wage. College graduates and
advanced college students shared the benches of
the bleachers with men and women who had never
had an opportunity even to attend high school.
Men and women who had always lived in the city
welcomed as comrades in this enterprise men who
drove to each rehearsal from the country.”

 

Sunny Play Day. Last year the Parents As-
sociation, University Elementary and High
Schools, Chicago, inaugurated Sunny Play Day,
so-called from the name of the donor of the
University gymnasium. This year the Play Day
was repeated with great success. There was no
special program, during the afternoon the regu-
lar daily schedule of the physical education
classes being carried out. This included baseball
and group games, swimming, relays. and kick ball.
The demonstration program was followed by a
box supper for parents and the evening of fun
featuring dads-and-daughters versus sons-and-

mothers chammonship baseball game, and in-
formal dancing.

Twelve “Don’ts” Dramatized.—So that en-
tire families might enjoy the use of the Los An—
geles municipal plunges at wholesale rates, special
group tickets, conforming in appearance to the
family meal tickets, were in use last summer at all
the city’s swimming pools. For the price of $2.50
the ticket entitled families to enjoy swims totaling
$3 in value. Cards enabled any member of the

family to use any municipal swimming pool or
beach bath house.

The Playground and Recreation Department is
working on the preparation of a motion picture
film based upon the twelve “don’ts” advocated for
beach-goers. By dramatizing these rules in the
form of a film and showing it before organizations
and groups of all kinds, it is hOped to reach many
people with information regarding safety precau-
tions.

Community Centers in Waco.—“No tire-
some lectures but just an evening of pleasure,” is
the inducement offered by the Department of Rec—
reation at Waco, Texas, in inviting the adults of
the community to attend monthly community gath-
erings at the school centers. The invitations were
given the school children to take home to their
parents. A typical program consisted of a sing—
song, solos, dramatization of old time songs,
dancing numbers, active games for all, and quiet
games.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

WORLD AT PLAY

After School Playgrounds.—The after
school playground, conducted as an experiment
by the Department of Public Recreation of Read-
ing, Pennsylvania, and financed .by the Junior
League, reached 700 children during the four
weeks’ demonstration period. Special activities
included sketching, art, folk dancing, nature
study, games and storytelling.

The Park Department of Springfield, Massa-
chusetts, last spring secured an additional appro-
priation from the city which made it possible to
open in May about twenty-five after school play-
grounds five days a week from 3:30 to 5:30.
Trained leaders were placed in charge who had
passed the civil service examinations and had
taken the training course. On July lst, when the
summer program began, the after school play—
grounds were discontinued until September lst.
After that date the after school playgrounds will
be reopened for two months.

Parkersburg Conducts Training Course.—
The Board of Recreation of Parkersburg, West
Virginia, conducted a sixteen weeks course in
playground practice and theory, with a two-hour
period once a week. The first hour was devoted
to lectures and discussion; the second was given
over to observation and practice teaching and
demonstration covering games, athletic events and
fundamental coaching, drama, story-telling, hand-
craft, apparatus, tumbling, boxing and wrestling,
hiking, nature lore, picnic events, special events,
and first aid. There were thirty-one enrolled in
the school. At the termination of the course mem-
bers of the class did practice teaching for a period
of four weeks on the spring playground. Seven
of the class were appointed to playground posi-
tions as assistants or leaders for the summer
season.

Dramatic Programs in Jacksonville—The
Department of Recreation of Jacksonville, Flor-
ida, has a cooperative arrangement with the
Drama Guild whereby this group provides dra-
matic programs at popular prices. The Depart-
ment of Recreation pays the expense of engaging
the auditorium and meets the royalty fees, while
the Drama Guild pays the expense of directing
the plays and providing costumes.

A County Drama Tournament—During
the month of October the Los Angeles County,
California, Drama Association, comprising forty-
two drama groups, will hold its first annual Drama

m ‘

Bri

   
 

7‘ u
I"" -

Clean

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

PROTECTING children at play is the aim
of the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the dan-
gers and dirt in dust! It's so easy and
it costs next to nothing.

An application of Solvay Flake Calcium
Chloride on gravel or earth surfaces
effectiver ends the dust nuisance. And
Solvoy Calcium Chloride kills germs.
The photomicrographs pictured here
show you the results. 347cu|tures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the some dust
treated with Solvoy Calcium Chloridec

After treatment

Germs
in Dust

   

Before treatment

Make this a dustless outdoor
season on your playgrounds.
Send today for full information

and booklet No. 1159.
SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

 9,. Alkalies and Chemical Products Monufoc.
w tured by The Salvay Process Company

%

CHLORIDE

61 Broadway New York

 

TRADE MARK REG U S. PAT OFF

ALCIUM

FLAKE—77%—80%

0 LVAY

347

SUNSHINE
FRESH AIR

 

I

 

 

Please mention Ricmnox when writing advertisers

348 WORLD AT PLAY

KENDALL

COLLEGE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Formcriy Chicago Normal School of Physical Education

Be a director of Physical Education. playground supervisor. dancing teacher,
or swimming instructor. Two-year diploma and three-year B.P.E. courses
for young women high school graduates. Accredited. Free appointment
bureau. Facuin of trained speciaiists. Complete equipment. Fine
dormitories. Cataiog.

FALL TERM SEPTEMBER 14th

REGISTRAR. 5026 GREENWOOD AVE.

BOX 59 CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
—

Festival extending over a period of two weeks.
Seven productions will be staged every other
night. One of these will be a historical pageant
or a mass production of Shakespeare’s Julius
Caesar or any other drama which will give oppor-
tunity for the participation of all the active mem-
bers of the entire organization. Twelve niatinees
will be devoted to the art of dancing, musicals and
children’s drama. A comprehensive exhibit in-
cluding costuming, scenic equipment, lighting ef-
fects and make-up, will be assembled. The inter-
vening evenings of the tournament will be devoted
to six conference -meetings on the community
drama movement. Preceding the program one
evening during the Festival the group present
will be divided into small units, each with a
demonstrator. Instruction in make-up and other
demonstrations will be given. Previous to the
Opening of the Festival a series of lectures will
be given at luncheon clubs and civic and commer-
cial organizations throughout the county by prom-
inent Speakers who will discuss the social, moral
and economic value of the drama and will make
known the objectives of the County Association.

Four Years Old.——-On May 25th the recrea-
tion movement in Irvington, N. J., had its fourth
birthday. Members of the Recreation Council
and their wives and city officials celebrated the
occasion with a dinner and party. Reports were
submitted by the chairmen of committees of boys’
work, music, basketball, bowling, girls' activities,
garden clubs, junior athletic federation, baseball
activities, diamond ball, girls’ day, Memorial Day,
and various other activities. This was followed
by a Russian ballet presented by a young girls’
group from the folk dancing class who had made
the costumes, from boots to headgear, in their
handcraft classes. The same group after a change
of costume gave the sailors’ hornpipe. The read-
ing of a message from Governor Larson, Dr. John
H. Finley, and others was followed by the play-
ing of five table games, which successfully broke

up any reserve there might have been! Musical
numbers were presented and there was much en-
joyable community singing led by a master accor-
dian player, an Italian in costume, who proved
to be an exceptional song leader. At the close
of the evening a number of the officials present
spoke on various phases of the work.

The Play Astronomer Adjusts His Tele-
scope.—Under the attSpices of the Physical Edu-
cation Department in Norfolk, Virginia, public
schools, of which Kirk Montague is director,
3,000 children last May presented The Nation:
at Play, while the astronomer in dark robes cov-
ered with cabalistic insignia showed through a
telesc0pe the wonders of the world at play. The
telescope was leveled first at America, then Den-
mark, Ireland, Germany, Holland, Scotland,
]apan, Hungary, and England. The pantomime
of the astronomer and the American boy and girl
was the link which held the program together
during the hour and forty minutes of folk dancing
and play activities.

In addition to the folk dancing, there were re-
lay races, mimetics, marching, stunts, a Maypole
dance, and games. The children were dressed in
costumes of the various nations giving a most
colorful and beautiful effect. Of the demonstra-
tion, Mr. Montague writes: “The most frequent
comment was on the obvious good time that the
children themselves had in doing it. This Spon-
taneity was doubtless heightened by the fact that
there were no rehearsals and that the children did
it just as they had every day on the playground.”

The costumes were made at home. The depart-
ment purchased nearly $500 worth of cambric and
the children were given the material with a pic-
ture of the costume, which would facilitate mak-
ing it. The cost to the parent averaged 43 cents.

Roller Skating Races in Reading—The
preliminaries of the second annual roller skating
races of Reading, Pennsylvania, were held at six
centers, streets being blocked off with the co-
operation of the police department. Dashes,
single skate races, and novelties were included in
the program for boys and girls of different height
classifications. Winners of the first three places
competed in the finals at which ribbon prizes were
awarded. Through the efforts of the Department
of Public Playgrounds and Recreation, three
streets are now set aside for skating and hundreds
of children enjoy this play every day.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

WORLD AT PLAY , 349

Brooklyn’s “Hopefuls” Parade.-—-—Young
Brooklyn citizens from two to five years of age
in every section of the borough, donned gay cos-
tumes, and in baby carriages, express wagons and
bicycles decorated by doting parents, marched in
the Park Department’s annual Baby Parade held
early in June. More than 2,000 children took
part in the demonstration held under the auspices
of the Park Department’s Recreation Bureau,
and twenty-live of the borough’s parks saw the
children who play in them every day march
around the playgrounds in gay array.

A Reducing Class Which Is Recreation.—
A reducing class doesn’t seem like much fun, but
as the plan has worked out in Reading, Penn-
sylvania, the reducing part became a'by-product;
the real thing was the fun the women had. As
one member of the class afterward wrote: “My
gym class, the reducing class, was one of the
most enjoyable evenings in the week. It was a
time I looked forward to and was time well spent.
Not only did we learn about our diet and reduc-
ing, but this class took us back to our childhood
days where we played all sorts of games, made
new friends, and really had an evening of whole-
some fun. It took us away from our regular
routine, and gave us an altogether different out-

look on life——-really made us more {it for our
daily tasks.”

The lesson proper consisted of rhythms, exer-
cises. suitable for the women to take in their
homes daily, folk dances which greatly increased
in popularity, a small amount of apparatus work
toward the end of the year, and relays and games.
In the game program the plan was followed of
working up from the very simple games to highly
organized ones such as baseball, which the women
enjoyed thoroughly. And although instruction in
dieting and exercising was given in consultation
with doctors, and calories and charts played their
part, it was really the recreation which seemed
most important to the women in the end. They
soon became interested in sports and began par-
ticipating in outside activities such as tennis.

The Children of Long Beach Present
Pageant—More than 2,000 school children of
Long Beach, California, took part in a pageant
at Catalina Island, presented for the benefit of
4,000 Rotarians attending the sixteenth annual
convention of Rotary’s Second District. The
pageant depicted the progress of civilization and
was a stupendous spectacle. Preceding the pa-

 

Licensed under Patent: 01'
October 23. 1923. March 25,
1924 Patent Office

"Jungian-m“ Trade Mark
Registered United States

Healthy Youngsters

need plenty of fresh air and exercise. The
Spalding Junglegym provides both of these
necessities. No supervision is necessary for
this apparatus. It is the favorite spot on the
playground with the children and keeps
them continually amused. Appealing as it
does to their natural instinct to climb, it
is a pleasant way for the children to de-
velop physically as Well as mentally. It
requires but a small amount of space

and is capable of handling 75 children.

,MJW’ 

Mass.

Playground
Department

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

350 . WORLD AT PLAY

geant proper came a five ring, “Bungling Broth-
ers and Hind Paw Circus.” The Recreation Com-
mission and the Long Beach city schools cooper-
ated in making possible the pageant.

The 1931—32 Budget in Los Angeles.—
A budget of $868,400 has been approved for the
work of the Los Angeles, California, Playground
and Recreation Commission, 1931-32. This
amount represents an increase in income of about
$38,000 over the present year’s budget and a de-
crease of $50,000 as compared with the year
1929-30. As many additional facilities will be
placed in public use during the next fiscal period,
many economies must be effected to meet the ex-
tra burdens. The average annual cost of individ-
ual playground operation will be reduced from
$9,505 to $8,970. Forty-eight playgrounds will
be added as against 41. Income will be derived
from the department’s 4 cent tax rate to the
amount of $738,000 and from other departmental
revenues to the amount of $130,000.

Per Capita Cost of Recreation.—The annual
report of the Department of Recreation, She-
boygan, \Visconsin, states that the department
served 402,340 pe0ple during 1930 at a per capita
cost of .035. The per capita cost for individual
activities are given as follows: Classes at the
high school .104; men’s gymnastic classes .237 ;
league activities .003; summer playgrounds .027 ;
after school activities .042; ice skating rinks .039;
band concerts .088; coasting 0.17 ; bathing
beaches .034; high school pool (summer) .033 ;
community service .040.

Code of Sportsmanship for Fans Adopted.
-——The Code of Sportsmanship for Fans, pro-
moted by G. G. Eppley, director of municipal rec-
reation at Evansville, Indiana, and chairman of
the Recreation Committee, Indianapolis Kiwanis
Clubs, has been adopted by Kiwanis International,
and the new administration is planning to work
out methods of promoting a sportsmanship pro-
gram throughout the United States and Canada.
The Code of Sportmanship was published in the

August, 1930, issue of PLAYGROUND AND REC-
REATION.

Service to Rural Districts.—The Recreation
Department of Waco, Texas, services twelve
rural schools, furnishing motion pictures and giv-
ing leadership in handcraft projects including bas-
ketry, wood work, sewing, and leather work.

There are also some music and drama activities.
The service is given in c00peration with the
women’s bureaus in the various rural commun-
ities.

Regarding “Better Times.”——Better Times,
New York City’s \Velfare Magazine, acclaimed
at the time of its first appearance as “the smallest
newspaper in the world,” will be published after
October 1st by the \Velfare Council of New
York City. During the twelve years of its exist-
ence, under the leadership of George  Hecht,
the magazine has performed a large service. It
will continue to present the most important and
interesting news of all charitable and social agen-
cies in New York City and will record the activi-
ties of the Welfare Council which Better Times
helped to bring into being.

Learning to Know the World They Live
In.——One of the interesting features of the pro-
gram of the experimental classes conducted by
the Public Education Association at Public
School No. 41, New York City, is the opportun-
ity given the children to learn about their sur-
roundings. Many city children have little knowl-
edge of the world in which they live, and these
trips are exceedingly informational. The tour
begins with simple trips to the blacksmith and
to the market in the neighborhood. \Vith the
first grade the children begin to work on the
geography of New York. They watch the boats
going to Hoboken; they are taken around the
city so that they will understand New York as
an island. Later they go out in. frhe harbor.
During the outdoor period they have lessons in
rhythm, music, and the use of apparatus.

Play Days in the School
(Continued from page 320)

emphasize the importance of defeating groups
from other schools.

A typical play day program includes an intro-
ductory march which might be used as a posture
parade, an assembly for singing patriotic songs
and repeating the pledge of allegiance and salut-
ing the flag, games for children of primary grades,
games for children of intermediate grades, folk

_ dances, stunts, and athletic sports and team games

for children of junior and senior high school

grades.
The play day in its present form is a new de-

velopment in physical education. It shows the

EDUCATION OF EMOTIONS 351

 

PROPER PLAY EQUIPMENT
WILL FILL
YOUR PARKS

ARKS and Playgrounds everywhere are filled
with youth, building health and happiness

through the constant use of American Playground
Devices.

Years of sound engineering principles are built

into every American device, assuring youngsters
absolute safety and protection.

American Playground Device Co.
ANDERSON, INDIANA

influence of such older kinds of celebrations as the
festival, the track and held meet, and the physical
education demonstration. It is still in the period
of change and evolution but it has already devel--
oped to a stage which justifies its place in a com-
prehensive program of physical education that
seeks to provide opportunities for wholesome par-
ticipation for all boys and girls.

 

——

Education of Emotions
(Continued from page 324)

obedient to the leash. It is here that youth
achieves both emotional strength and control.

I do not wish to make over-much of this rather
unusual claim of the opportunity of play in the
field of emotions, but I am convinced that train-
ing in the control and use of the emotions under
great and primitive-like stress with reference to
standards and ideals of character and conduct is
of gravest importance. Otherwise where shall the
people be made ready for the emotional crises of
life, greater and smaller? There is nothing better
than training in being “good losers” to prevent
personal tragedies or fatal discouragement and

Our service department will gladly help you
with your plans as to arrangements and practi-
bility of different devices.

quitting under the difficulties of life that sooner or
later come to all. In this connection the oppor-
tunities of play are greater than those of the or-
dinary subjects pursued in the classroom.

Drama in the School
(Continued from page 327)

The Purple Iris by Antoinette Withington. From a
story of Old Japan. 5 women, 2 men. Possible for
a cast of girls. A nobly born girl, foster-daughter
of a gardener, reveals herself to the Empress with
the gift of a purple iris. An exquisite little play.
Womans Press. 50c.

Six Who Pass While the Lentils Boil by Stuart
Walker. 1 act. 7 boys, 2 girls. A fantastic comedy
in the manner of a fairy tale. David hides the
Queen from the executioner until the hour for her
beheading has passed. Appleton. 50c. Royalty

$10.

Sir David Wears a Crown by Stuart Walker. 1 act.
13 boys, 4 girls. A sequel to Six Who Pass While
the Lentils Boil. David is rewarded for saving the
Queen. Appleton. 50c. Royalty $10.

Troubadours of Provence by Marion Holbrook. 1
act. 4 boys, 4 girls. A May Day fragment based
on an old French custom. French song included.
An appropriate assembly play. National Recrea-
tion Association. 10c.

The Princess and the Swineherd by Gwendolen Seiler.
A play of twenty-two more characters. 3 acts.
Simple scenery. Delightful music. Lovely cos-

Pleasc mention RECIEATION when writing advertisers

352

TENNIS NETS

All

I 35 Fulton Street

CORRELATION OF RECREATION

.— also .—
Backstop Nets

Soccer Nets

Coll Practice Nets

in fact

 

This house has long

been headquarters
for all the above.

W. A. AUGUR

SAVE MONEY

Get a Better Job!

In building or
resurfacing your

TENNIS COURTS—
PLAYGROUNDS —

ATHLETIC FIELDS —
0

Use

RUBICO SURFACING
0

Take advantage of our un—
equalled experience, p l u s t h 8
economy of specralized engmeering.

W rite—now—for complete information

RUBIEN CONSTRUCTION CO.

Westl'teld
Specialists in Athletic Field Construction

New Jersey

Sport Nets

 

New York

 

tumes. A play version of one of our most pOpular
folk tales. A touch of sophistication in the drama-
tization makes the play popular with junior high
school groups. Macmillan Co. $1.75.

All plays listed may be purchased from the Drama
Book Shop, 48 \Vest 52d Street, New York City.

Correlation of Recreation and

Academic Work
(Continued from page 329)

do not stop with the splendid habit forming oppor-
tunities of the teams and clubs; they are continued
into every branch of the school system. Thus the
curricular subjects lend themselves readily to the
support of these programs especially in the upper
elementary grades and the secondary schools,
where the pupils want to know the reasons for
doing things. At these ages knowledge as well
as habits and attitudes must be encouraged.

The correlation between many subjects of the
curriculum and recreation is worked out in this
modern school where social elliciency is the aim.
The Physical Education Department teaches the
type of games that have carry-over values; the
manual training course starts handicraft that will
be continued at home; music is taught that is in-
teresting to modern youth; reading, made prac-
tical, sends pupils to libraries for more; history
shows the relationship between prosperous nations
and their recreational habits, and sociology, psy-
chology, and the languages offer many opportuni-
ties to emphasize the value of wholesome leisure-
time pursuits. A short history of the recreation
movement, locally and nationally, is made a part
of the curriculum.

In this emphasis on the recreation program,
however, the public schools have not always been
successful, as demonstrated by a survey made in
one large city. This survey was made to deter-
mine the choices of children for school curricular
subjects and the relationship of these choices to
the interests which children had in the out-of-
s'chool activities. In the after-school leisure time
activities the children naturally chose physical
activities, music and reading, but during the school
hours these subjects were evidently taught without
a proper understanding of their recreational
values. It was found that arithmetic and history
were more popular than the physical education;
that with the boys geography was a greater fav0-
rite than reading, and that to the girls spelling
was more interesting than music. The conclusion
would seem to be that these subjects had not been
properly taught from the viewpoint of their value

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

LEISURE AND THE COLLEGE CURRICULUM 353

as recreation activities. The boys and girls were
not being prepared for leisure. But in the mod-
ern school both the curricular and the extra-cur-
ricular plans focus on a program of recreational
knowledge and habits.

The Responsibility of the Modern School

After having created this splendid foundation
for a constructive use of leisure, does the responsi-
bility of the modern school end? Does this
school at graduation bid youth “Good Bye” and
“Good Luck” and then be done with them? Or
does this school feel that it has created certain
habits of recreation that will and are expected to
persist in after school days and that something
should be done about the matter?

The school has been a training ground in team
play and club activity during many happy days.
The school has taught the reasons for the value
of wholesome play. Its courts, gymnasiums and
auditoriums have been the happy media of train.
ing for leisure enjoyment. The modern school
sees its recreation-trained graduates living in the
neighborhood. It then places at their disposal
these recreation facilities during the evening
hours. The school supervised recreation center
or community center for adults is a logical de-
velopment.

Thus the public school not only promotes recre-
ation habits and knowledge as a part of its pro-
gram through curricular and extra-curricular
emphasis but it also provides recreation centers
for its graduates and the entire neighborhood in
the post-curricular days. In the training for
social efficiency the school program of recreation
is a necessary consideration.

 

Leisure and the College Curriculum
(Continued from page 332)

Doubtless there are many who will say that
what has just been outlined is the same
as has been carried on in the schools for
many years as Nature Study. Yet there are
several characteristics which seem to give new
atmosphere to the course. In the first place the
usual nature study course is knowledge-accumu-
lating; whereas, this avocational science course
has a decided habit-formation element in it.
Again, the course outlined is more a correlated
science, a broad, overt attempt to get away from
the usual compartment type of field course. In

the next place, the students in the college grot1p
have more mature minds than those most often
found in a course in nature study in the grades.
It is coming to be recognized more and more
that what really determines what and how much
value is derived from a certain study, is the intel-
lectual maturity of the pupil rather than the
amount of material in the course.

(T he wide range of interests presented by these
field studies of birds, insects, plants, stars, and
rocks will make for freedom and development of
interest by the individual. His field of playtime
pursuits will be enriched and his scientific horizon
widened. It 'is hoped that new hobbies will be
found and developed which can be ridden while
walking or camping in the sunshine or under the
stars, and new interests aroused which will de-

velop not only the mind 'but the body and spirit
as well)

QRelation of Recreation to Vocation

(Continued from page 336)

participation in school activities is likely to be

found in school plays, debating, science clubs and
musical organizations.

I have purposely limited my talk to statistics
about boys. Since I have collected fewer case
studies of women students, I am not prepared to
state conclusions about them. It would seem that
the women students entering certain professions
show the same general likings for studies and
recreations as the men in the same field. Each
year shows a larger percentage of women.enter-
ing the professions and so it will be important to
collect more scientific evidence of their interests.

I feel that the conclusions I have been attempt-
ing to draw are further substantiated by the fact
that the boy who is entirely undecided about the
course he wishes to select is invariably without
strong leanings either in studies or in his out-of-
school activities. His record is therefore color-
less. I feel nevertheless that even in such a case
his interests—or lack of interests—will link him
closer to certain groups than to others. We have
tabulated results for fourteen different fields of
specialization, and by throwing out the lower
levels, this student would be assisted by the pro-
cess of elimination, even though his decision would
still have to be made from a number of apparently
close choices.

On the other hand, the boy who is especially
brilliant at anything he undertakes, will be guided

354

 

SCHOOL PLAY

mThe constant prog-

ress of a billion dollar field
is accurately and interest-
ingly reflected in the pages

of “Southern City." “A

AAAHeI'e you will find
news of the latest activities
of public officials through-
out the South—news of
undertakings accomplished

and plans for future

activities.

SOUTHED~

DIXIE’S ONLY SOUTHWIDE
. CITY BUILDING PUBLICATION

Baker & Ivy Streets
‘ATLANTA, GEORGIA

immensely by his recreational analysis. This boy
is apt to present A’s in all the subjects that he
takes and all the activities that he undertakes so
that it would be hard to say which vocation would
be most pleasurable. He would no doubt make
good in any that he entered. Therefore a study
based on the activities to which he would natur-
ally gravitate if left to himself will be most illum-
inating. '

Before concluding this discussion, I want to
point out that not only does the evidence indicate
a close relationship between recreations and pro-
fessions in the school period of life, but there is
every indication that a strong connection between
the two will be found in actual business and pro-
fessional life. Consequently, if a certain profes-
sion shows that its members favor certain types
of recreation more than others it would behoove
the specializing student to acquire a proficiency
in them if he has not already done so. No doubt
the fact that the members of a certain profession
for the most part are alike in their recreations
shows that the latter satisfy a certain need in the
way of a well rounded life. It is not at all pre—
sumptuous to state that psychologists in the future
may so analyze each vocation from the standpoint
of its enrichment of life that certain recreations
may be prescribed to compensate for any deficien-
cies the vocation may present. Any marked re-
pressions or narrowing influences will thus be bal-
anced by a program of recreational interests. This
possibility grows stronger as we note the rapidly
increasing hours of leisure and the consequent
necessity of cultivating wholesome leisure-time

interests.

School Play
(Continued from page 317)

er standing in the center who tries to catch the ball
or at least to touch it as it passes over him. \Vhen
he does so, he changes places with the one who
threw the ball last. The game continues in this
way indefinitely.

It is sometimes an added element of interest to
time the one in the center in order to see in how
short a time he can touch the ball, and to keep a
record for each player and announce the winner
at the end of the game. This game makes excel—
lent preliminary practice for basket ball, as it in-
volves quick throwing and catching. and quick
jumping to intercept the ball.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

New Books on Recreation

Character Through
CreativeJIbExperience

By \\'illiam C.‘ Bower. University of
Chicago Press, Chicago, Illinms.
Pice, $2.50.

THIS is a book which possibly most

recreation workers would not
quickly choose from an array of new

volumes which they might come upon
at a book store. Nevertheless, they
would profit greatly from a careful
reading of it. It presents what we
all sorely need, a sort of synthesis of
the best in modern educational psy-
chology and thus goes to the very
heart of progressive education. In
doing this it leads right into the
whole problem of personality or char-
acter building through creative ex-
perience.

13‘ not the best recreation procedure
ever attempting to bring about in-
tegrated personality through creative
experience? The author of this
closely thought through dissertation
says much about the Good Life,
meaning not the goody-goody life but
rather the deeply satisfying, the richly
abundant life. He makes numerous
referencesto play and recreation situ-
ations with their values and possibil-
ities for furthering this Good Life.
The leader can set the stage, inspire,
give techniques and help the learner
to see and strive for values.

Marked progress can come in the
quality of recreational leadership in
America when books like this are read
and inwardly digested by the leaders.
Reviewed by Eugene T. Lies, N .R.A.

Pantomimes for Stage

and Study

By T. Earl Pardoe. D. Appleton and
Company, New York. $3.00.

HERE has been little available

hitherto on the art of pantomime.
Here is a valuable book for the actor,
amateur or professional, who wishes
to improve his acting technique by
study and practice in the art of pan-
tomime. The opening chapter deals
with the important part the body
plays in all expression. The reader
is then provided with a graduated
series of exercises intended to effect
ease of bodily movement; other chap-
ters give particularized exercises.

 

A unit of Owen D. Young’s gift to his
native town, Van Hornersville, N. Y.

The American School and University,

1931-1932

(Fourth Annual Edition) American School Publishing Corporation, 470
Fourth Avenue, New York. $5.00. (50 per cent discount to school ofiicials.)

ERE is a book full of fundamental information for educators and present-
ing the experiences of many leaders in the field. It deals with the design,
construction, equipment, utilization and maintenance of educational buildings
and grounds, and with problems of expansion and economyf The volume is
profusely illustrated, and there are in addition a number of valuable lists of
educators, school and landscape architects and distributors of equipment.

Dr. Edwin C. Broomehpresident of the Department of Superintendence,
National Education Assocxation, says in the foreword: “Carefully planned

modern school buildings are designed to express a new educational philos0phy.
This philosophy, in brief, means that education today is intended to raise the
level of intelligence of the entire community, from the smallest children to
the oldest adults, and to furnish Opportunities for the deve10pment of all
phases of intellectual aSpiration. Education today must be all-inclusive, and
must be so planned that it serves the needs of all types in the community.
This is what democracy means if it means anything, and democracy must pay
the price. The up-to-date, well-equipped school buildings which we see in
every progressive community in America are not the result of the ambition
and imagination of schoolmen so much as they are the expression of the
aspirations of the community.”

Making Things
With Tools

The Play-it
Book

By A. Neely Hall. Rand McNally
and Company, New York. $1.00.

T is a difficult matter for the pres-

ent-day teacher and recreation
worker to be suiiiciently informed in
handcraft projects to keep up with
the desire of the modern girl and
boy to make things. Boats, kites,
model airplanes, houses, things on
wheels, equipment for backyard fun,
noise producers, motor toys, Christ-

mas and birthday gifts, and other ,

articles are described in this illus-
trated book by a past master in de-
vising things for boys and girls to do.

By Jean T-Iosford Fretwell. Rand Mc-

Nally and Company, New York.
$1.00.

GAMES for days of all kinds have

come into being under Jean F ret-
well’s planning. Play-Lot Days, One
Day on the Sidewalk, A Rainy Day,
A Day in the Woods, A Summer
Day on the Lawn, One Day at the
Beach, A Picnic Day, Days in Bed
and Afterward, When Mother Was
Gone All Day, and Snowy Days-

here are suggestions for all of
them!

355

356 NEW BOOKS 'ON RECREATION

CURRENT DEVELOPMENTS IN AMERICAN COLLEGE SPORT.
Howard J. Savage, John T. McGovern and Har-
old W. Bentley. Bulletin NO. 26. The Carnegie
Foundation for the Advancement Of Teaching, 522
Fifth Avenue, New York.

Bulletin NO. 26 Of the Carnegie Foundation is as
thought-provoking as its predecessors. The relation Of
college and school athletics to the educational process
is the theme Of this publication as it has been Of the
others. “It insists,” states Henry Suzzallo, president Of
the Foundation, “perhaps more clearly than in previ-
ous discussions published by the Foundation, that final
responsibility for the effective administration Of American
college sport belongs not to the alumnus, the downtown
business man or the newspaper writer, but to university
or college Ofiicers.”

The study shows that important changes are taking
place in American college athletics. The past three
years have brought a slightly renewed insistence upon
the status Of the amateur. The ethical bearings Of ama-
teurism have once more been canvassed and become
better understood. One principle in the administration of
college athletics has become clearer, though not uni-
versally applied—the final control and guidance of col-
lege athletics is a part Of the administrative and in-
structional functions Of college Officers and teachers. The
decline Of gate receipts from football had led tO the
prOposal that college Sport, bOth intercollegiate and
intramural, should be endowed. Almost every current
indication is tO the effect that the undergraduate is tiring
Of “big time" athletics. “The return tO a more sincere
appreciation Of the values Of sport and sportsmanship is
under way,” states the report in conclusion. “The road
at times seems long, but the American college will not
weary in well-doing.”

THE SCHOOL FESTIVAL. Adelaide Linnell. Charles Scrib-
ner’s Sons, New York. $1.00.

Miss Patty Smith Hill in the introduction to this help-
ful book, makes a plea for the greater use Of festivals in
the school program because of the “happy results which
they contribute to a curriculum along literary. musical.
esthetic, industrial, historical and social lines.” The school
festival, she points out, is mOst developed when it is
deeply rooted in the curriculum from its inception tO its
conclusion. \Vhen festivals become so-called “extra-cur-
ricular" activities, they are a menace to physical and
mental health Of both children and teachers. Sources and
materials and technical problems are taken up in the
book. Examples are given of festivals built from original
material in the form of the children’s own stories, ideas
and experiences, and from stories which are favorites
with the children. Suggestions are offered for festivals
for Christmas. Thanksgiving, and other special occasions.
Not only teachers but recreation workers will find a
wealth of material in this little volume.

THE STORY OF SCIENCE. David Dietz. Sears Publishing
Company, New York City. $3.50.

“TO cause science to come tO life amongs scientists is
risky if one cares for his prestige. TO dare to relate the
story of the solar system so that a mere layman can see,
believe, and read again, is s'till so unusual that it should
receive special mention. Along comes David Dietz, a
fellow who is a lecturer in science for \Vestern Reserve
University, and at the same time a popularizer of science
for the Scripps-Howard Syndicate, with a book entitled
The Story of Science. Personally I am not surprised as
time and time again I have heard the children at the
Nature Guide School clamor to stay up a little later tO
hear one of Dietz's bedtime stories. Up tO this time their
experiences may have been limited to the twinkle, twinkle
variety. The book should be called Stories of Science.
His short, lively chapters and apt way of making facts
attractive will make the book a favorite with the ever-
growing fraternity that believes that ‘truth is stranger
than fiction.’ Here is a book for the alert leader that will
enable him to give a Dietz adjustment to what might
otherwise be idle talk or astronomy dust.”——Reviewed by

lVilliam G. Vina! (“Cap’n Bill”), Director Of the Nature
Guide School.

PLAYS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE. Florence A. Marsh. Allyn
and Bacon, New York City. $.80.

An excellent bOOk for teachers who are directing the
play-acting interests Of pupils Of junior high school age
is this little volume Of plays. Some Of the plays, or units
of them, can be presented during a period Of the school
day in the class room or the auditorium. In 45 or 50
minutes the pupils can assemble a few stage properties,
put On their costumes, present the play and restore the
room to normal order. The text includes scenes from
famous novels and stories, episodes from American his-
tory, a favorite fairy tale, episodes from the life Of Robin
HOOd, and small complete units from three of Shake-
speare's plays. There are general suggestions for giving
plays and other practical material.

HOUSEKEEPING IN CAMP. Prepared by The Committee
on Camp Procedures of the Committee on Vacation
Homes and Camps Of The Children's Welfare Fed-
eration, 244 Madison Avenue, New York City. $.30.

A committee Of eight camp directors has prepared this
Manual of Prcatical Procedures tO Safeguard Health.
Many of the details which might easily be overlooked
are discussed and step by step practical matters involved
in cam administration are taken up. Chapter headings
are Bc are Camp Opens; Health and Sanitation; Organi-

zation of Staf; Between Trips; Camp Closing; Camp
Library.

TnE MAKE-11' BOOK. Rachel Taft Dixon and Marjorie
gagtwell. Rand McNally and Company, New York.
1. 0.

If yOu want tO know Of countless things tO dO with
scissors and paste and Odds and ends, this attractive, il-
lustrated book Will come to you as an invaluable help.

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association
OFFICERS

om: H. quv, First Vice-President '
our: G. \VINANT, Second VieePresident
onErr Guam. Third Vice-President
GUSTAV!!! T. Ktnv, Treasurer
Howno S. Buucnn, Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mas. Enwnn W. Bloom: Carlisle. Pa.
WILLun Bun-Enwon'rn, Moline. Ill.
CLARENCE M. Cum: Philadelphit, Pa.
HENRY L. Conun- Portland. Ore.
st. ARTHUR G. Cuqun, Jacksonville. Fla.
F. TRUBE! DAVISON, Locust Valley. L. I. N. Y.
Mus. Tnonas A. Emson West Orange. N. J.
OHN H. FINLEY, New York. N. Y.

061-! Flames, New York. N. Y.
Roan-r Guam, Baltimore. Md.
Mus. CHARLES A. Goonwm, Hartford. Conn.
Ans-rm E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle. Wash.
\qumu HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York N. Y.
Mns. CHnLEs v. chxox, hiichigan City, Ind.
Mu. Funcxs DELACY HYDE, Plalnficld N. J.
Gvsnvos T. Kuuv New York. N. 
H. McK. LANDON, fndianapolis. Ind.
Mas. CHAELEs D. LANIER. Greenwich. Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER. Charlotte. N. C.

osnru LEE Boston. Mass.

own!) E Looms, New York. N. Y.
J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield. Mass.
0110 T. MALLERY, Philadel hia. Pa.
\VALTE: A. MAY. Pittsburg , Pa.
CARI. E. MILLIKEN, Augusta. Me:
Miss ELLEN Scmrrs, LaJolla. Calif.
HAROLD H. Swnr'r, Chicago Ill. '
FREDERICK S. Tnswoxrn, New York,  Y.
Mns. JAMES W. \Vxnswonn Jn., Washington, D. C.
. c. \VALSB, New York, N’. Y.

OHN G. WINANT, Concord. N. H.
.L in. quun H. Woonm JR. Plainfield. N. J.
annmcx M. \Vanunc, ew ork. N. Y.
C. S. Wuron, Scranton. Pa.

10$.er LEE, President

