In Times of Unemployment

GREAT as is the loss of money in time of unemployment it is as.
nothing compared to the loss of spiritual power, vigor, and will

to progress. There must be conscious effort to keep this lossuuof
courage and morale down as far as may be. The iyhole‘ rhythm of
living is disturbed. Men wander lonely, not at home; loSt—in a* uni-
verse that seems to them like a foreign country. Even the landscape
seems to change.

Winning back our stride is spiritual, cultural, as well as eco—
nomic. The whole art of living is involved. Recreation is a poor
word. What it_ is that man wants to do, to be, to become is now
supremely important. More men are today thoughtful as to what
really matters than ever before. Money—even labor has been taken
away. Is anything left? Is there music, drama, art, sport, life? Or

is there only an empty shell?

Never beforehas there been need of more fundamental thinking"

as to play, recreation, living.

Anything may happen in Germany,’ in England, in Australia,
and even in the United States except as we provide adequate oppor-
tunity for living the kind of life that man wants, fOr the kind. of
creative activity for which man is hungry—-—and this does not mean
a heavy cost per person, if the community and the nation have done
their part.

In times of unemployment recreation centers are “just as im—
portant as banking centers.” Recreation is a form of relief—just
as essential as food or other relief. In so far as doing happy things
together keeps our courage up—recreation is the more necessary for
all of us in times of depression, for depression is in part a disease
of the spirit which requires a spiritual remedy.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

469

Merry Christmas to All !

Courtesy Bureau of Recreation, Scranton, Pa.

Scranton’s community Christmas tree will stand 45 feet high and there will be a 6 foot
star at the top. The tree will be made up of 200 trees ranging from 6 inches to 18 feet in
height. These will be nailed to a 65 foot wooden pole. There will be approximately 1,600
lights on the tree itself, the globes being of many different colors. The star, which will have
125 additional lights, will revolve at the rate of 3%, revolutions per minute. The c00peration
of the Bell Telephone Company, the Scranton Railroad Company, the Scranton Electric Com-
pany, the Park Department and a local electrician, who are assuming a large percentage of
the cost, will make the actual expense to the Bureau only about $250. The Bureau of Recrea-
tion has blue prints and detailed information about the construction of the tree and the star

which anyone interested may secure on request.

 

Our Joyful'st Feast

By Augustus D. Zanzig

National Recreation Association

This year there will be community

Christmas celebrations everywhere.

Music will add beauty to them all.

and of all the other occasions for music,

the one that sets the most people a-singing
is Christmas. It is then that the impulse to sing
takes hold of almost everyone, from the crooning
infant to the oldest and most conlirmed “mono-
tone.” It would be difficult to prove this omni-
presence of Euterpe or Santa Claus or whoever
else is the deity of carol—singing. But let even
the most shy person find himself at Christmas
time in a group that has been drawn into the mys—
tery or delight and the full melodic flow of “Silent
Night” or any other of the best beloved carols,
and he will sing with fervor even if every other
time and every other kind of song leaves him cold.

0 F all the seasons and holidays of the year,

The Meaning of Christmas

This is, of course, mainly because the spirit of
Christmas is essentially that of childhood with
all its joy, friendliness, expressiveness, and the
sense of wonder. It can awaken again in each one
of us the child that we were or have longed to
be. It is a time of rebirth or recreation, a time
for what is the very essence of the best that we
mean by recreation. So it offers us not only one
of the primary opportunities of the year for com-
munity and home recreation, through caroling,
gathering around the lighted tree, festivals, plays,
and other happy Observances; it offers us also a.

 

Each year the celebration at Wash-
ington centers about a living tree.

0

clear view of human nature at its best, of a state
of being which, while it is not the only kind that
people seek and need in recreation, is supremely
good and is all too rarely realized in the prevail—
ing sorts of recreational activities. For example,
in our singing of Christmas carols we often attain
the spontaneity and expressiveness that have for
generations been common among certain foreign
peoples, but which all our tons of energy given to
peppingup community singing groups too rarely
equaL

In an article by Edward Yeomans in the No-
vember American Magazine of Art, he quotes
from a letter written to him by an American boy
who was bicycling through the Bavarian moun—
tains. This boy is not a sentimentalist, but a
sturdy, sport—loving medical student. He says,
“On Sunday, by the side of the road, people had
stopped and were singing part songs—~one man
leading. We dropped our bicycles and joined in
——-everybody that came along joined in. It was
great. It,looked like a stage affair, perhaps for
our benefit—all those Bavarians in green coats,
bright vests, and leather shorts, feathers in peaked
caps. It didn’t seem possible that this was the
natural thing in Bavaria; that this was a fine day,

471

472 OUR JOYFUL’ST FEAST

and that singing tine music
on a fine day was the very
best way to celebrate. But it
was possible—and natural.
Come on America !-—-what
have you to offer? Answer,
nothing.”

Now, America has caroling
to Offer, even by groups who
stop by the side of the road
to celebrate. Candle-lighted
windows are Opened, though
only slightly on the cold win-
ter night, so that the people
indoors may hear and per—
haps join in the singing, and
a lantern borne by one of
the carolers may reveal red
capes and caps borderedgwith “snow,” or even the
more colorful costumes of the waytes and mum-
mers of “merrie England.”

The supreme symbol of the Christmas spirit is
the Holy Child of the Christians, but its essential
meaning 'is so fundamental in human nature that
the pe0ple of every sect and race may enter freely
into that spirit. Rooted in the happy ceremonies
and feasting that all northern pe0ples had as
pagans carried on to celebrate the winter solstice—
the return of the light—it has flowered in the cele-
bration of the birth of the child who is beloved
by Christians as the Light of the \Vorld. But
even the pagans seem to have looked upon the
natural event, the rebirth of the sun, as a time for
a new beginning in their own lives, for a renewal
of hope, joy and good-will among themselves.
The evergreen trees, and the holly, mistletoe and
ivy, are all symbols of the everlasting youth of
life, as is the child, every child. It is no sacrilege
to remember that every boy or girl is, in a sense,
holy, bringing the hope of a better-than-what-is;
and so is the joyous, kindly and self-forgetful
spirit of childhood that is in every man and
woman.

So now is come our joyful’st feast,
Let every man be jolly.

Each room with ivy leaves is dressed,
And every post with holly.

There are many kind of carols; some for every
mood and taste. Many of them, like “Deck the
Hall With Boughs of Holly,” “Good King
\Venceslas,” and the wassailing songs, have no
direct relation whatever to the Nativity, yet they
are fully expressive of various phases of the
Christmas spirit. But one of the loveliest and

Bring a torch. Jeannette. lsabellal
Bring a torch. to the cradle runl
It is Jesus. good folk of the village;

Christ is born and Mary's calling;
Ahl ahl beautiful is the motherl

Ahl ahl beautiful is her Sonl

It is wrong when the Child is sleeping.
It is wrong to talk so loud;
SilenceI all. as you gather around,

Lest your noise should waken Jesus:

Hushl hushl see how fast He slumbers;
Hushl hushl see how fast He sleeps!

Softly to the little stable.

Softly for a moment come:

Look and see how charming is Jesus,
How He is whiteI His cheeks are rosyl

Hushl hushl see how the Child is sleeping.

Hushl hushl see how He smiles in dreams.

simplest of all carols is the
French “Bring a Torch,
Jeannette, Isabella,” the
words of which are presented
in this article.

The Créche

In France. the place that
in our children’s hearts is
taken by the Christmas tree.
the stockings by the fireside,
and the coming of Santa
Claus is taken by the creche
or manger. It shows the
scenes of the Nativity, with
the cradle, the Mother, the
shepherds, the ox and the
ass, and perhaps the Kings
and the Star. It is made or arranged by the
mother or father with all the mystery and surprise
that attend the dressing and lighting of our
Christmas tree. After supper on Christmas eve
it appears on a table and all the family from the
babies to grandma and grandpa gather round it
singing Noéls, the old carols of France, and then
pointing out to each other the details of the be-
loved representation. For it is likely to have new
little figures each year. Beside the créche stands
a little bowl full of green growing blades. Three
weeks before Christmas, on St. Barbara’s Day.
December 4th, the children 611 a proper-sized
bowl with earth, and plant lentils in it that have
been soaked overnight. By Christmas eve it is a
pretty mass of bright green.

Later than usual the children go to bed with
the promise that they will be awakened in time
to hear the Christmas bells that fill the streets with
the invitation to come to the church and see there
the most beautiful créche of all. The children are
awakened, with great excitement they dress in
their best clothes, and young and old join the
hurrying groups of neighbors all going to the
church. In olden times torches were carried along
to light the way through the often narrow, crooked
streets. The words of the carol are derived from
this custom.

Knowing this, -it is delightful to read of the
first créche that was made to show what happened
at the Nativity. It was arranged by St. Francis
of Assisi, that lover of mankind, in 1223, to tell
the unlettered people of Grecia, in Italy, the
Clu'istmas story. He caused a manger, ox, ass,
and all the trappings of a stable to be prepared
in the little village church. Mrs. Oliphant tells

OUR JOYFUL’ST FEAST 473

of it in her “Francis of Assisi” (Macmillan):
“Francis and his brethren arranged these things
into a visible representation of the occurrences of
the night at Bethlehem. It was a reproduction, so
far as they knew how, in startling realistic detail
of the surroundings of the first Christmas. . . .
“The p0pulation of the neighborhood
gathered round the village church with tapers and
torches, making luminous the December night.
The brethren within the church, and the crowds
of the faithful who came and went with their
lights, in and out of the darkness, poured out their
hearts in praises to God; and the friars sang new
canticles which were
listened to with all the
eagerness of a pe0p1e
accustomed to wander-
ing jongleurs and min-
strels, and to whom
such songs were all the
food to be had for the
intellect and imagina-
tion. . . . “We are
told that Francis stood
by this, his simple dra-
matic representation,
all the night long, sigh-
ing for joy and filled
with unspeakable
sweetness. His friend,
Giovanni, looking on,
had a vision while he
stood apart, gazing and
wondering at the saint.
Giovanni saw, or
dreamed, that a bea‘u-
tiful infant . . . lay in
the manger which he
had himself prepared,
and that, as Francis
bent over the humble
bed, the Babe slowly
awoke, and stretched out its arms towards him.
It was the child Christ, dead in the hearts of a
careless pe0ple, . . . but waking up to new life,
and kindling the whole slumberous universe
around him at the touch and breath of that su-
preme love which was in his servant’s heart. . . .”
It is said that from this “play” given by St.
Francis grew all the Mystery-plays of later days
and much of our Christmas caroling. Hymns or
chants celebrating the Nativity had been sung
even in the earliest days of the Christian church,
but from the spirit and simplicity of this play and

 

Playground children of San Francisco in a
beautiful production of the manger scene.

its “new canticles” a freer, more popular sort of
Christmas singing arose, the sort that we recog-
nize when we distinguish carols from hymns.

Christmas Carols

The carol, “Bring a Torch, Jeannette, Isabella,”
is presented herewith because when it is known it
becomes as beloved as any other; and it is quite
different, adding another color to the already
richly varied expressions of the Christmas spirit.
A choral arrangement of it (fit also for unison
singing) with accompaniment, can be secured from
the E. C. Schirmer Music Company, 221 Colum-
‘ bus Avenue, Boston,
for 12 cents.

The following col-
lections are the best
inexpensive ones:

Sheet of Christmas Carols,
words only. The Na-
tional Recreation As-
sociation, 80c per hun-

dred.

O, Come All Ye Faithful

Silent Night

Hark! The Herald Angels
Sing

0 Little Town of Bethle-
hem

Deck the Hall

Here We Come A-Carol-
ing

It Came Upon the Mid-
night Clear

Good King Wenceslas

The First Nowell
God Rest You

Gentlemen

Community Christmas
Carols, words and mu-
sic. The H. W. Gray

Company, 10c each.

Adeste Fideles
The First Nowell
Good King Wenceslas

Merry,

God Rest You Merry,
Gentlemen

We Three Kings of Orient
Are

The Cherry Tree Carol

What Child is This?

Good Christian Men, Re-
joice

The Holly and the Ivy

The Wassail Song

Silent Night

0 Little Town of Bethlehem

Standard Christmas Carols N0. 1, words and music.

Theodore Presser Company, 10c each or $6.00 per
hundred.

Adeste Fideles

Away in a Manger

The First Nowell

God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen
Good Christian Men, Rejoice
Good King Wenceslas

Hark! The Herald Angels Sing
I Saw Three Ships

Joy to the World

(Continued on page 530)

TORONTO—A Royal Host

to the Recreation Congress

 

J. Earl Birks
Toronto

reation Congress held

in Toronto in Octo-
her, one of the factors
which stands out as con—
tributing so definitely to
its success, not only
from the point of view
of visitors from the
United States, but also
from the standpoint of
benefit to Toronto and

IN reviewing the Rec-

the Dominion generally, is the out-

well this was done and
will remember pleasant-
ly the -genuine, cordial
interest found on every
hand; the generous
transportation facilities
furnished; the demon-
strations; the social
events arranged; the ef-
ficient information serv—
ice always available.
Second, to make the

Congress known.

 

Margaret S. Gould
Toronto

How thoroughly

standing work of the Toronto Ar-
rangements Committee.

The committee, representing all the
important phases of community life
in Toronto, was organized under the
leadership of W. G. Watson, Honor-
ary Chairman, J. Earl Birks, Chair-
man, William Bowie, Vice—Chairman,
Oscar Pearson, Vice-Chairman, and
Miss Margaret S. Gould, Secretary,
to prepare for the Congress. Other
members of the committee were Gil-

 

William G. Watson
Toronto

this was accomplished is indicated by
the fact that over three hundred citi-
zens of Toronto actually registered
and took part in the Congress.
Third, to obtain for Toronto the
largest possible benefit from the Con-
gress. Already this effort is bearing
fruit. The committee has become
permanently organized to conserve
and further extend the interest in rec-
reation created by the Congress.
Other community groups have re-

 

William Bowie
Montreal

bert Agar, Jessie I.
Archer, S. H. Arm-
strong, P. L. Bartlett,
Barbara Blackstock,
Louise M. Burns, C. E.
Chambers, Mrs.  W.
Dyas, A. D. Hardie, D.
M. LeBourdais, Mrs.
W. L. McFarland, Mrs.
G. Cameron Parker,
Mrs. H. P. Plumptre,
J. J. Syme and Jean
Walker.

The committee set itself several tasks. First,
to express the hospitality of Toronto to its vis-
itors. Every Congress delegate present knows how

474

ported a revival of in-
terest and the initiating
of new - recreation pro j-
ects.

Here is a local ar-
rangements committee
that saw the possibilities
of the Congress, worked
untiringly to realize
them, and is already
seeing the results in a
community response to
recreation. Special com-

 

Oscar Pearson
Toronto

mendation and appreciation are due to the ofiicers
for the splendid leadership furnished the group,
and for the unusually effective work done.

The Eighteenth Annual Recreation

Congress and Unemployment

The importance of recreation in the

present unemployment situation
was the outstanding subiect of dis-
cussion at the Congress at Toronto.

which confront community recreation today

as a result of our present unemployment sit—
uation were the subject of many of the most im-
portant talks and discussions at the Recreation
Congress in Toronto. Thoughtful and forceful
presentations were made by Dr. John H. Finley
in his opening address and Dr. L. P. Jacks in his
talk before a group of more than 1,500 listeners.
The subject was the heart of the messages to the
Congress from the President of the United States
and the Premier of the Dominion of Canada.

THE special responsibilities and opportunities

ways of using unemployed labor in the develop-
ment and extension of recreation areas and facili-
ties; in providing recreation opportunities for the
larger enforced free time of the unemployed and
in protecting the play life of the children of
America.

As a result of the numerous requests coming
to the Association for concrete suggestions, a
composite statement of the various activities of
different cities so far as they have been reported
to the Association, is presented. This is an at-
tempt, not to prepare a complete listing of all the

Recreation and unemployment
was not only discussed at the
special meeting of recreation
executives and at a special meet-
ing arranged for the discussion
of it, but pervaded also many
of the other discussion groups.
It was the liveliest topic at the
multitude of personal confer-
ences held between meetings
and many were the requests
made for speciHc data relating
to local recreation service to
the unemployed.

The evidence was over-
whelming that the unemploy-
ment situation is a vital factor
in community recreation work
in nearly all communities pro-
viding recreation service. It is
evident that local leaders are
thinking of the most effective

"During the war time the gov-
ernment recognized man's spiritual
needs and spent millions of dollars
on recreation tor the soldiers. '

"Playground teachers and recre-
ational leaders. able to make tolk
sing and laugh. were hired by the
government and sent to camps in
America. Italy. France and Eng-
land to give men 'spiritual tood.‘

"During the Santa Barbara earth-
quake not only were soup kitchens
established but bands were organ-
ized. public dances held. and com-
munity 'sings' planned as a part of
the rehabilitation rogram.

"ln times of epression more
money and still more money should
be spent on recreational work and
character-building activities. Some-
thing which will help the tamily. and
especially children. from destitute
families. get away a few hours into
a 'make believe' world."

reports from all cities, but to
present an outline of all the
possibilities for use of the un—
employed in local recreation
work and for the provision of
recreation opportunities for" the
unemployed. No one city is do-
ing all that is outlined, probably
no one city can do them all, but
it is hoped that each city will
study this composite list and
use it as a basis for planning its
own local program designed to
meet this special problem.

Use of Unemployed “Labor”

In planning for the use of
the unemployed in recreation
systems, cities have thought
immediately of the use of un-
employed labor in the extension
and improvement of areas, fa-

475

476 THE CONGRESS AND UNEMPLOYMENT

cilities and buildings. Unskilled labor has been
successfully used in improving old areas and in
grading and improving new ones. To develop
the greatest opportunities for use of labor of this
type, it is essential that imagination and aggres—
sive promotion effort be brought into play so that
new areas can be secured through bond issues and
appr0priations, through donations of individuals,
through setting aside of areas by real estate sub-
dividers, through the leasing or free use of vacant
areas for sufficiently long periods to justify im—
provement.

The generosity of private
individuals in the donation of
park and recreation areas in
the past has meant a great deal
to the movement. A recent
study of the Association indi-
cates that approximately one—
third of the present total
municipal park and recreation
acreage of the country is do-
nated acreage. In some cities
the donated acreage is the total
acreage. Today as never be-
fore the donation of land of-
fers to the public—spirited
citizen a dual opportunity for public service—an
opportunity to make a permanent contribution to
the parks and recreation needs of his locality, and
an opportunity to provide work for the unem-
ployed.

Many real estate developers in recent years
have been setting aside land in new subdivisions
for permanent park and recreation use. Doubt-
less many more would be glad to do so now if
they could be assured that cities would accept and
improve them. Cities have sometimes been obliged
to refuse desirable areas because of lack of funds
for improvements, thus losing forever, perhaps,
needed open spaces. A cooperative plan now can
help the city, the unemployment committee and
the realtor. \Vhy not suggest that the realtor
donate the land, the unemployment committee the
labor for its improvement and that the city accept
the land, supervise its improvement and provide
leadership where required?

Oftentimes much can be done through securing
contributions of materials for the erection of such
small buildings as shelter houses. Park and rec-
reation departments have found it possible to se-
cure special appropriations for the purchase of
tools and materials necessary to the effective use
of unemployed labor, these additional funds to be

The unemployment situation in Mil-
waukee, WisconsinI has been reflected
in the greatly increased attendance at
the social centers. The attendance for
October, I930, showed a very large
increase over that of October. I929.
It was found that the greatest in-
creases have been in those districts
where the greatest number of unem-
ployed persons resided. In the manual
training classes last winter men made
toys for their children so that Santa
Claus could come as usual. Women.
tooI made Christmas gifts and an un-
usually large number were in the sew-
ing classes where they could learn
how to make over their clothes.

restricted to such purposes. Among some of the
types of improvements made through the use of
this special labor are:

Resurfacing of tennis courts, playgrounds.

Construction of new tennis courts.

Construction of new playgrounds.

Construction in park areas of special facilities
for such games as roque, croquet, bowling on
the green.

Construction of new and improvement of Old
golf courses.

Building wading and swim-
ming pools.

Trees felled and brush re-
moved.

Replanting.

Concrete water fountains.

Bridle paths.

Grading.

Cinder paths.

Stone walls.

Earth and other filling. -'

Concrete curbs.

Concrete walks.

Dirt roads.

Pipe fences.

. Gutters, drains and ditches.
Rustic bridges.

Culverts.

Earth paths.

Concrete fence posts.

Concrete benches.

Brick sewers.

Use of “White Collar” Unemployed

Cities generally have found that additional
supervisory workers are required if this special
labor is to be effectively used. They have secured
such supervisors through the assignment of
“white collar” workers by unemployment commit-
tees to park and recreation departments, for serv-
ice as foremen.

The use of “white collar” workers is in most
cities an important problem of the emergency em—
ployment committees. Some cities have been able
to secure effective supplementary leadership and
supervisory service through the use of individuals
secured through emergency employment commit-
tees. These workers have been carefully selected
for their previous experience and natural ability
for use in evening recreation centers for adults;
for manning playgrounds and other outdoor areas
where such areas would be otherwise closed be-
cause the regular budget for leadership covers

THE CONGRESS AND UNEMPLOYMENT 477

only a short season. They can serve effectively
also as activities specialists, where they have been
selected because of their professional or technical
training and experience, or because of Special
ability arising from their own personal hobbies.
They can be used effectively with arts and crafts
groups, and for the conduct of music, drama and,
physical activities. In addition to being used suc-
cessfully in existing centers and on existing
grounds, they can be used in special centers
Opened to meet the recreational needs of the un-
employed.

In the use of unemployed individuals in these
ways, it is essential, of course, that provision be
made for special intensive training and that rea-
sonably adequate supervision be provided by the
department through its executive or his staff.

Recreation Service to Unemployed

The recreational needs of the unemployed have
been reflected in a tremendous increase in most
cities in the use of existing outdoor and indoor
recreation centers. In many cities budgets have
not been increased sufliciently to permit the regu-
lar employment of the additional personnel needed
for such centers, and in some cases this additional
personnel has been secured through local employ-
ment committees as mentioned above. It has
brought about the necessity in many cities also of
opening new centers and extending the regular
program. It makes possible a special appeal for
the wider use of school buildings, church centers
and other indoor facilities well adapted for recrea—
tion use. Many localities should find it possible to
secure the opening of more school buildings with
the schoOl boards meeting the Special expense for
light, heat and janitor service. School boards are
often willing to make exceptions from the general
policy requiring such expenditures to be met by
the groups using the centers, where the additional
use is a result of and a direct contribution to the
unemployment recreation program. The addi-
tional personnel for these centers might be se-
cured as suggested above.

In addition to the recreation service to unem-
ployed through the present program and its exten-
sion, in many cities there may be the need for es-
tablishing special centers for the unemployed for
their use during the daytime 'from. nine or ten
o’clock on, inasmuch as no work opportunities are
usually available for them aften ten o’clock in the
morning.

There is undoubtedly a question as to the wis-
dom of encouraging the unemployed to spend

their time together in large groups while waiting
for work. Time not actually spent in registering
or looking for work might better be Spent with
family groups or other normal groups not exclu-
sively “unemployed” or” labeled “unemployed.”
Many emergency committees are using registra-
tion systems so that those needing work can wait
at home or _within easy call of home. However,
when men do gather together themselves, regard-
less of employment methods in use, or where
they feel they must keep in close touch with the
employment office, it is obviously advisable to have
them congregate in centers where provision is
made for them to occupy their involuntary leisure
and not to leave them entirely to their own
thoughts or to morbid and destructive discussions
among themselves.

The cities which have established such centers
have found them successful, and have located
them in connection with, adjacent to or located as
near as possible to the emergency employment
registration centers. In most cities these special
centers are restricted to those unemployed who
are conscientiously endeavoring to lind work and
follow the system of having the unemployment
registration card as the basis for use of the recrea-
tion center. Such centers might well be located
in larger vacant store spaces, lofts, armories, fra-
ternal and other club rooms, and similar places
where space can be secured without cost and
where it is adequate and conveniently located.

Some cities also have the problem of providing
special recreation centers in connection with lodg-
ing houses.

In those cities where special centers are already
in operation, it has been found that the following
activities have proved popular:

Music participation

Musical programs furnished by outside organi—
zations

Reading material

Checkers, cards, puzzles, pool, shuffleboard, ping
pong, handball, boxing, basketball, quoits, ten-
nis, box hockey

Special programs, such as boxing shows, minstrel
shows, home talent nights, outside talent nights,
moving pictures

This list is not complete but indicates the type

of activities which have been appreciated and en-

joyed where already provided.

In many cities there will be opportunity to in-
terest churches, fraternal orders and similar

groups in Opening their rooms and facilities for
(Continued on page 530)

Today's Unemployment

and

Tomorrow's Leisure

Play, recreation and leisure. What
have these to do with education?
A philosopher gives us the answer.

F I were to address you
I tonight as a recreation

expert who could instruct
you in the technique of games
and pastimes, I should be
assuming a qualification
which I do not possess my-
self. My qualification to
speak to you tonight, if in-
deed I have any at all, is of
quite a different kind. I
speak to you as an educa-
tional dreamer, but as a
dreamer who has lived long .
enough to see one of the best of his dreams
come true in the very work of this recreation
movement.

For many years I have been appealing to my
fellow educators to bring recreation into the
sphere of positive education, to make use of the

478

philosoP

movement.

 

Dr. Jacks, Principal Manchester Col-
lege. Oxford. England, and Editor of the
"Hibbert Journal." is spending this year
in America under the auspices of the
National Recreation Association helping
to intergret to community groups the

y underlying the leisure time

By L. P. jacks, LL.D.

"The words play. recre-
ation. leisure, are the
names ota great Oppor-
tunity tor awakening
the dormant creative-
ness ot human beings

which other circum-
stances of their present
lot are tending to sup-
press. and which edu-
cation has hitherto

neglected."

 

play instinct as one of the
great driving forces for
training the body, the mind,
and the character of human
beings, and I have been ap-
pealing to them to carry the
work of education beyond
the point where it stopped
short in the acquisition of
knowledge, to the far higher
point of creative activity.
For many years I have been
pleading that the liberal edu-
cation of the body, which is
a much higher thing than athletics as commonly
understood, should be carried on with the liberal
education of the mind.

For many years I have been urging that edu-
cation must prepare for leisure as well as for
labor and that it could never prepare for either of

TODAY’S UNEMPLOYMENT AND TOMORROW’S LEISURE 479

them effectively unless it prepared also for the
other. This is what I have believed in, hoped for,
aimed at, and dreamed of, and here tonight my
dream has come true in the work which this con-
ference has done, on which it has met in Toronto
to promote. I rejoice to see this day.

Last night I saw something very wonderful in
this hall which filled me with hope and which
seemed to me to reveal the whole secret of our
recreation movement. I saw a crowd of human
beings rapidly transformed by a simple and beau-
tiful art into a joyous communion, happy in each
other’s society, not merely having a good time,
but having a good time all together, which is a
very different and much higher thing, and it
seemed to me that this crowd, transformed into
a happy community by those simple arts, was a
kind of first sketch of the brotherhood of man.

The transformation of the crowd into the com-
munity—that, I venture to think, is the summary
mission of your recreation movement. What was
done last night within these four walls, and in
ten minutes, remains to be done for the human
family at large—the transformation of the human
crowd into the human community the wide world
over. But it will not be done in ten minutes, as
it was done last night. Yet it will be done one
of these days, and when it is done it will be
found that our recreation movement has played
a part second to none in bringing that to pass.

My old habit of dreaming, which I thank God
I have not entirely lost, old fellow that I am, came
back to me in full force as I watched the pro—
ceedings in this hall last night, as I saw visibly
before me a crowd transformed into a community.
That is the way, ladies and gentlemen, to “build
your Jerusalem among those dark satanic mills in
England’s green and pleasant land” and in every
green and pleasant land the wide world over.

What Has Play to Do With Education?

Play, recreation, and leisure. What have these
to do with education? If this question had been
asked twenty years ago, or even ten years ago,
it might have been somewhat difficult to answer.
If anybody had stated, at all events in the country
where I come from, twenty years
ago that play, recreation, and leis-
ure lie inside the field of educa-
tion and not outside, that they are
things which education has to pro-
vide for and not merely to toler-
ate, he would have been dismissed
as a faddist.

The discovery of the edu-
cational! possibilities of the
play side of life may be
counted one of the greatest
discoveries of the
day. It marks' I am convinced,

' the dawn of a new era in hu-
man education.

I speak from experience. Twenty years ago,
a few of us began saying this very thing. We
said that an education which trained young people
for work but not for play, for labor but not for
leisure, for toil but not for recreation, was a half-
done job. The repetitional method, we said, of
training young people for knowledge, mostly' in
the form oft-book learning and then turning them
loose on the world with the creative part of them
undeveloped, with no aptitude, with no skill, no
interests for the occupation of their leisure, was
a procedure that is humanly inadequate and so—
cially dangerous. Not the way to make good citi-
zens, not the way to make healthy men and
women. That is what we said, but for the most
part we were just voices in the wilderness.

We said that to small audiences. We could
never have got such an audience twenty years ago
as the one I see before me tonight, to listen to
these things. They were small audiences, giving
hardly any response to our pleas. There was
much contempt among professional schoolmasters
and university professors, and there was no en-
thusiasm for this recreation cause at all, and all
we got for our pains was the reputation of being
“grannies.”

How different things are today! While I look
upon this splendid audience tonight, I feel some-
how as though I had emerged into another world.
This great Congress is a witness to the change that
has taken place in the public minds about recrea-
tion since then. All over the civilized world today
education for leisure is coming to the attention of
thoughtful men and women; it is opening up new
prospects and arousing new hopes for humanity.
This change is taking place in every country of
Europe. There is not a country in Europe today,
except one or two of the most backward, which is
not thinking and planning about education for
leisure.

These words, play, recreation, and leisure, have
become momentous words in the educational vo-
cabulary. A vast new field of educational possi—
bilities has disclosed itself on the play side of
life, and multitudes of educators are now begin-
ning to see that there, on the play side of life, at
the leisure end of life, lies an op-
portunity for building up that
higher and nobler humanity which
the old system of education, con-
centrated at the other end, gave
little promise of achieving.

The discovery of the educa-
tional possibilities of the play side

present

480 TODAY’S UNEMPLOYMENT AND TOMORROW/'5 LEISURE

of life may be counted one of the

greatest discoveries of the present
day. It marks, I am convinced,
the dawn of a new era in human
education.

What Does Unemployment
Mean for the Unemployed?

Now, what are the causes of
this rapid growth of interest in
the problem of leisure? What
brought it about? It has many
causes, far more than I can enter
into tonight, but there is one which
has a special interest at the mom-
ent, because it is connected with
the dark times through which all

Since the world began, no
human being was ever made
happy by having happiness
poured into him from outside
or ever will be to the world's
end. The happiness that man's
nature demands and craves
for is impossible until the cre-
ative part of him is awakened.
until his skill hunger is satis-
fied. Man's happiness. the
happiness for which he was
created. comes from within
himself. Till then and till his
happiness begins to well u
from within through this selz
active creative life, man is
living on a starvation diet; he
is devitalized; he is in low
condition: he is wanting in

Now, we have all studied the un-
employed in statistics and we have
drawn our economic and political
conclusions, and not very comfort-
able conclusions, either; but some
of us have gone a little bit further
than that and we have been study-
ing these unemployed, not as statis-
tics but as human beings. We have
been asking, what are these un-
employed human beings doing with
themselves? How are they spend-
ing their time during the long
weeks and months of this false
leisure we call unemployment?
The answer to that question varies
in different circumstances and ex-

industrial countries are now pass-
:ng. I refer, of course, to the ter-
rible phenomenon of unemployment, now un-
happily prevalent all over the world. \Vhat does
unemployment mean for the great majority of
the unemployed? These dark times are com-
pelling us to face that question, and it may be,
that in compelling us to face the question, our
economic dilhculties are rendering us a great
service by revealing a new field for educational
activity which we didn’t see before or which we
saw but imperfectly. But now that we see it
clearly, it may inspire our educational efforts
with new visions, new energy, new wisdom, and
new ardor. If these dark times do that for us,
we shall have something to be thankful for.

It is one of the uses of adversity that it often
turns our minds to the things that matter most
and compels us to revise our standard of values.
I rather think that adversity may be doing that
for us at the present moment.

What, then, does unemployment, as it now
exists, mean for the majority of the unemployed?
What it means in the economic sense we all know,
but what does it mean in a human sense as affect-
ing the life, the character, the health and the
happiness of the unemployed, the human aspect
of it, which concerns the educator as separate
from the economist or the politician? Well, in the
human sense, it means that millions of men and
women, through no fault of their own, find them-
selves the possessors of vast amounts of leisure
which, quite literally, they don’t know what to do
with-—simply empty leisure, leisure without pur-
pose, leisure without means. They find them-

selves in the possession of a vast amount of that
sort of leisure.

mind and in body.

ceptions have to be made at many
points, but there can be no doubt
as to the general tendency in the way this leisure
is being spent by the unemployed. For the vast
majority of them, it is a period of human stag-
nation. For the vast majority of them, the
dominant tendency of it all, humanly speaking, is
downward, downward physically, downward men-
tally, and downward morally.

These people, speaking generally, will return
to their work if ever they do, not in better con-
dition as human beings, but in worse. Here and
there, no doubt, you will find a man or a woman
who will seize the Opportunity of his unemploy-
ment for reading, or for studying, or for acquir-
ing some art‘ or craft or for the cultivation of
his soul, but for one who spends the time in those
ways you will find one hundred, nay, a thousand,
who merely stagnate.

I was in Madison Square last week and it al-
most broke my heart to see those hundreds of
human beings just stagnating there, and I have
seen the same thing many a time at home.

\Vell, the sad thing from the educators’ point
of view is this, that the education which these
people have received in the public school has pre-
pared them to do little else than stagnate when
they fall out of work. Many of them, indeed,
have had to be called avocationally trained, espe-
cially the white-collared draft of unemployed.
They have had avocational training. They have
been trained, and possibly well trained, for the
jobs by which they have earned their living.

One of the white-collared unemployed writing
me the other day said this: “So long as my job
was there, my education helped me along splen-
didly, but now my job is gone, I am as empty as

TODAY’S UNEMPLOYMENT AND TOMORROW/"S LEISURE 481

a barrel. My life is dull and drab and every day
is on the verge of becoming vicious.”

Perhaps I may say, in passing, that the unem-
ployed are not the only peOple in modern society
who find themselves in that empty-barreled con—
dition when they pass from their work to their
leisure. I have heard of men retiring from busi—
ness with large fortunes to their credit, but with
their barrels just as empty as that of my young
friend when he lost his job. If you study the
way people generally are spending their leisure
time today, employed as well as unemployed, rich
as well as poor, you will find that a great deal of
it consists of a lilling up of empty barrels with
rather questionable stuff. Much that goes by the
way of amusements is just that. How many of
our places of amusement, how many of our plea-
sure resorts, how many of the movies and the
talkes might well write up over their doors,
“Empty Barrels Filled Up Here.” . _

Perhaps I' am impressing this thought a little
too hard, but I think it is guessing fairly. well at
the condition of multitudes both rich and poor
who depend for the lilling up of their leisure on
ready-made pleasures and external excitements.

Now education for leisure is no attempt to har-
bor that condition. A man or a woman educated
for leisure will not depend upon other people to
keep amused. That, I might state, is the defini—
tion a person gave for leisure, that he who is
educated for leisure doesn’t depend upon someone
else to give him amusement. He will amuse him-
self. He will be, as the Germans now say, “self-
active,” in his leisure, and not a mere passive re-
ceptacle for pleasant experiences that have to be
poured into him from outside.

Creation Fundamental to the Philosophy of
Leisure

That leads me to say a word that shall not be a
very long one about a fundamental truth which
underlies this work of our movement and which
accounts at all events for my old lirm belief in
the value of what we are attempting, a funda-
mental truth of the philosOphy of leisure as I un-
derstand it. Man, as we are now coming to under-
stand him, is by nature and in essence, a creative
being. Creation, in one or other of its endless
forms, is the essential function of man. It is the
keyword of human nature. We are told that man
was made in the image of His creator. How,
Ithen, can he fail to be creative, himself? His
body is a creative instrument, wonderfully and
fearfully made for creative purposes. His mind,

as a corresponding function, his mental faculties,
might be delined as a kind of organized con-
spiracy to direct and vitalize the creative activities
of his body.

Man is a skill-hungry animal, hungry for skill
in his body, hungry for skill in his mind, and
never satisfied until that skill-hunger is appeased'.
After all,---‘Iivhat a discontented miserable animal
man is until he gets some kind of satisfaction
for this skill-hunger that is in him! Self—activity
in skill and creation is the summary mark of hu-
man nature from childhood right on up until
man’s arteries begin to ossify.

This conception of man has for centuries been
put forth; that he is skill-hungry and creative is
not a new conception. It is as old as the phil-
osopher, Aristotle. The revival of this idea of
human nature as skill-hungry and creative in mod—
ern times marks a profoundly significant advance
in the right understanding of ourselves, of our
children and of our neighbors, and unless I am
mistaken, it heralds a revolution in education.

We used to be told, and we are often told
today. that man was created for the enjoyment of
happiness. I would be the last to deny that.
There is a profound truth here, but it is a truth
that is very often misunderstood. We misunder-
stand it when we think of man as though he were
empty—barreled, waiting to be Filled up with happi—
ness from sources outside himself, that is the way
to misunderstand human happiness. Since the
world began, no human being was ever made
happy in that way, by having happiness poured
into him from outside, or ever will be to the
world’s end. The happiness that man’s nature
demands and craves for is impossible until the
creative part of him is awakened, until his skill-
hunger is satisfied. Man’s happiness, the happi-
ness for which he was created, comes from within
himself. Till then, and till his happiness begins
to well up from within through this self-active,
creative life, man is living on a starvation diet;
he is devitalized; he is in low condition; he is
wanting in mind and in body.} Created for the
enjoyment of happiness, yes, but on those terms
no amount of ready-made pleasures purchased on
the market, no intensity of external excitement,
will ever compensate for the loss of creative im-—
pulse, or for the starvation of his essential nature
as a skill-hungry being. That is a fundamental
truth, and to me there is no truth about human
nature that I find more certain, more important,
more vital, whenever the education of human be;
ings, either of children or adults, is in question... 

482 TODAY’S UNEMPLOYMENT AND TOMORROW’S LEISURE

And now, what has this to do with the work
of this Congress? What has this fundamental
truth to do with the play and recreation that we
study? As I see the matter, these words, play,
recreation, leisure, are the names of a great oppor-
tunity for awakening self-activity, the dormant
creativeness of human beings which other influ-
ences and other circumstances of our times are
unhappin tending to suppress.

The Significance of
Mechanization

We all know what has hap-
pened to England, what has hap-
pened all over the world. We
know how mass production and
mechanization has affected the
whole field of work, agriculture
not excepted. We see this process
of mechanization going on every-
where with increasing rapidity.
We are looking forward to times
when mechanization will be far
more advanced than it now is, and
some authorities, some of the
highest authorities, are predicting that in the not
very distant future the w0rking day will be re-
duced to four hours, or even to three.

Well, what would that mean? What would
an approximation to it mean? It would mean
the creation of an enormous amount of free time,
enormous in the total to be used, or misused as
the case may be.

From a human point of view, as distinct from
the economic, this process of increasing mechani-
zation is unquestionably injurious. From the
human point of View it has greatly reduced the
area where personal skill is possible, without, of
course, destroying it entirely, and that is a human
misfortune because personal skill in one or other
of its countless forms is an essential element in
the human life.

But happily that is not the end of the story
about mechanization. If mechanization is extin-
guishing skill at the labor end of life, it also is
creating leisure at the other end, and may not
that leisure that machinery creates by reducing
the hours of work offer to man an opportunity for
recovering the skill, and of enjoying the skill,
which the machine is destroying at the other end?
There are some of us who think that it does so.

In the increasing total of work-free time that

is now certain, we see an opportunity for making
good what has been lost through mechanization,

to ossifyp

Man is a skill hungry animal,
hungry for skill in his body,
hungry for skill in his mind,
and never satisfied until that
skill-hunger is appeased. At-
ter all, what a discontened

and miserable animal man is
until he gets some kind of

satisfaction for this skill-hun-
ger that is in himl Self-activity
in skill and creation is the
summary mark of human na-
ture from childhood right on
up until man's arteries begin

and far more than making good, we see in it an
opportunity for the highest form of human edu-
cation. Not for a moment will we allow that
education for leisure is a trivial thing, a mere
device for adding a little enjoyment to a dull and
joyless life. We claim it an essential thing, essen-
tial to health, happiness, character, intelligence,
vitality of our great population. There can be
no doubt that if we succeed in setting on foot
a sound education for leisure, the
effects of it and the reaction to it
on the mechanical end of our civ-
ilization will be profound and far-
reaching. Great readjustments
will be necessary and some of
them perhaps will be painful. In-
dustry would have to adapt itself
to a new condition; new and
higher demands would spring up
at the leisure end of life. That
part of industry which is now oc-
cupied in meeting the demands of
a wasteful and uneducated leisure
would tend to disappear, and there
is a good deal of our modern in-
dustry, when you come to think of it, which is
occupied in just that, in administering to the
demands of a wasteful and uneducated leisure.
Ugly and worthless things would cease to flood
the markets; goods of high quality would take
their place. Houses would be better built, cities
would be more beautifully laid out, clothes would
be made of liner stuff, food would be more whole-
some.

So, in the long run, machinery itself, mass pro-
duction itself, might become infected with the
passion for excellence, the passion for excellence
in the place of the passion for gain, and so turn
into an ally and a supporter of the higher edu-
cation of mankind.

In what I have said—I have of course confined
myself to the general aims and motives of our
movement—a thousand questions arise as to how
this is to be done and how that is to be done, but
for the moment I brush them all aside because
my belief is that so long as we know what we
are after, so long as our purpose is clear and our
hearts courageous, the difficulties will not be
found insurmountable and the dangers, of which
there are many, will not be fatal.

The truth is that you and I in this recreation
movement, have embarked on a very great adven-
ture. We are like Columbus, setting out to dis-

(Continued on page 532)

Recreation
in the

Unemployment
Crisis

By John H. Finley, LL.D.

First Vi ce-Presi d en t,

National Recreation Association

E are to be congratulated in holding our
W Recreation Congress in Canada which

has come to be a great recreational area
in America. There are no tariff walls on either
side to prevent recreational exchange; no duties
on the northern side on the alluring scenery, the
shadows of trees, the songs of brooks or the bet—
ter health that returning visitors take back with
them in their bodies and spirits.

Canada is thought of as a land of summerings,
but increasingly it invites the South to share its
winter days. Someone has said that since the
youth of my latitude come in such numbers to
you in winter for the sports, while the aged go to
Florida and other subtropical regions, we shall
become the zone of the
middle age.

PRESIDENT HOOVER GREETS THE

 

Courtesy Playgrounds Association of Philadelphia

Such games as box hockey are meeting with
whole-hearted and enthusiastic approval.

living in a state of hibernation for fifty years
with no more aging than would occur normally in
two and one-half years. A de-h-ibernating de-
partment of the Government would, in cooperation
with the Labor Department, call the sleepers back
to activity when the demand was again active for
particular skills.

But a better method of human endurance of
the slack periods is to fill them with activities that
make for human happiness. Who, after all,
would wish to hibernate as the bear or certain
other animals when there is such an interesting
world as this to keep awake in? While we live,
let us live and be as happy as we can, playing the
game, more and more conscious that the whole
planetary population are our fellow players.

The original meaning of “play” was exercise,

or free movement or ac-

tion, but Shakespeare in
“All’s Well that Ends

An English scientist has
recently suggested eco-
nomic hibernation as the
solution of our present
unemployment troubles, it
being regarded now as sci—
entiiically possible that
human beings may become
hibernating in their hab-
its, going into an unwak-
ing sleep or torpor for
periods. It is stated that
.the body might be kept

RECREATION CONGRESS

"Since wisely directed playgrounds tor chil-
dren and organized recreation activities tor
youth and adults contribute so much to the
health, morale' and happiness of the public. I
take great satisfaction in greeting the Con-
gress of Recreation Leaders of the United
States‘and Canada assembled in TorontoI and
in wishing them every success in planning to
sustain and extend recreation facilities and pro-
grams. All agencies which help to build health
and character are especially necessary in these
days and merit whole-hearted and generous

support."

Well,” uses it as a syno-
nym for lack of employ-
ment. The two defini-
tions are united in one
when play becomes free
exercise of body or mind
in hours or days or weeks
or months of unemploy-
ment, voluntary or en-
forced. Play, or its equiv-
alent, recreation, which is
the very opposite of idle-

483

484 RECREATION IN THE UNEMPLOYMENT CRISIS

ness, becomes 'the free exercise of the unem-
ployed. And I believe that those who are seeking
to provide proper recreation for the nations in
this period of slackened employment Iggy? as im-
portant a part to play as those who are seeking
to adjust production and consumption and to dis-
cover the economic rhythm of our planetary life.

President Hibben of Princeton said to the stu-
dents at the opening of the new academic year
that the spirit of the universities should be one of
elation that the opportunity had come to them to
show their readiness and ability to meet a situa-
tion with the moral equivalent of that which war
has developed in many. And as in the war the
.recreational agencies were evoked to maintain the
morale of those to whom the brunt of battle fell,
so now they are as greatly needed in supporting
'the morale of those who face the vicissitudes of
today and the anxieties of tomorrow.

The nation’s resources are being organized to
see that, as Thomas Lamont said, “no deserving
person lacking employment shall at the same time
lack shelter and food.” But it is the responsi-
bility of those who are in normal times concerned
'with the recreational life of communities to see
that no person lacking employment shall lack such
enjoyment of life as they can offer. They can-
not perhaps do anything directly to shorten these
periods of enforced leisure but they can make
them less miserable, less demoralizing, less stag-
gering, even less distressing economically. And
especially must the children whom we have in-
vited to this planet and particularly to this part
of it and promised the inalienable rights of “life.
liberty and the pursuit of happiness,” be given
protection.

Improving Recreation Areas as a Relief

Measure

In many communities where relief has taken
the form of providing op-
portunity for work, rather
than food, clothing or
shelter, that work has
been largely applied to the
improving of recreational
areas and parks. Youngs-
town, Indianapolis, Du -
luth—all the way across
the continent — such a
public policy has b een
adopted. New recreation
areas and special recrea-
tion facilities have also
been very widely pro-

in.

from the morale-

A MESSAGE FROM THE PREMIER
OF CANADA

"I am delighted to send a message of good
Wishes to the recreation leaders who have gath-
ered in Toronto from the United States and
Canada to discuss the facilities and adminis-
tration of public recreation. The right kind of
recreation is a necessity in modern communi-
ties. During these trying days of economic de-
pression public expenditure should not be CU‘l‘ for recreation purposes

uilding activities of parks,
playgrounds, community centers and other rec-
reation facilities. Best wishes for a most success-
ful convention and a most pleasant visit to the
Dominion of Canada."-—R. B. Bennett.

vided, new children’s playgrounds, athletic fields,
tennis courts, shelter and field houses, bridle
paths and tracts, and many other recreational
features.

Moreover, appropriations have been generously
made for improvements through the direct em-
ployment of local labor. Birmingham. Alabama,
for example, raised a half million dollars through
a bond issue, the funds being used to develop
tennis courts, swimming pools, an outdoor the-
ater, to improve thirty-one different park areas
and make more effective their recreation service.
Here, too, the list of what has been done by lo-
calities is a long one. For the Pacific Coast alone
the total made available through special tax ap-
propriations and bond issues for park and recrea-
tion improvement last year totalled eight and a
half million dollars, with additional bond issues
totalling nearly three million dollars already
scheduled or proposed.

Localities probably will be facing increased de-
mands this coming year for tax appropriations
for direct relief. \Ve may find it increasingly
difficult to get appropriations or new bond issues
for general park and recreation improvements
because of these other more direct demands upon
local public resources. \Ve must work, however,
for continued tax funds for the expansion of
recreation areas and facilities, where such expan-
sion contributes directly to relief of unemploy-
ment. \Ve must use imagination and ingenuity in
securing new areas through other than public
purchase. The study of donated park and recrea:
tion areas made recently by the National Recrea-
tion Association indicates that probably one-
third of the present total municipal park acreage
in the United States has been acquired through
the generosity of public spirited citizens. The
park and recreation movement owes much to
those who have donated
such areas to their com-
munities. Is not the pres-
ent a particularly appro-
priate time for a revival
of this practice? Are
there not open spaces in
or near many of our 10-
calities which are suitably
located and apprOpriate

and which might well be
donated for 'such perma-
nent public use? The cost
of purchasing such lands

RECREATION IN‘THE UNEMPLOYMENT GRISIS 485

would be a difficult item for many" localities to
finance at the present time. Where they can be
secured without cost, where labor can be fur-
nished through the use of unemployment relief
funds, there is here a splendid opportunity for a
double contribution to public welfare.

We can safely state that the recreation move-
ment has been doing its bit to provide work for
the unemployed. It must continue to do so.

Recreation Opportunities Essential

There is time to present only a few facts, but:
they indicate clearly that we must provide recrea-
tion opportunities for using the present tremen-
dously increased leisure time. The report of the
recreation service in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in
1930, as given to the Common Council, showed
a greatly increased attendance at the social centers
of Milwaukee. An analysis showed that the
greatest increases in use occurred in those districts
where the largest number of unemployed persons
resided. Other cities have similar reports to
' make: Richmond, Virginia, recently reported an
increase of one hundred per cent in the use of
existing facilities; Memphis, fifty per cent; De-
troit, Lynchburg and Los Angeles all report de-
cided increases in the demands made upon tlzem
for public recreation service. This increased de-
mand is not limited to just a few cities. It is
general throughout the country. *

The attendance at community buildings in
about one hundred cities, devoted exclusively to
recreation activities, increased from an average of
45,.” per building in 1929 to nearly 67,000 per
building in 1930, showing an increased use of
such existing facilities of forty-five per cent. An
analysis of the use of more than 1,000 indoor
recreation centers, other than community build-
ings, located in more than one hundred cities
throughout the country, showed an average in-
creased use per center of sixty-two per cent.

The history of community recreation indicated
that we should expect some increase in 1930 over
1929, but the extent of the increase was so great
that we are obliged to infer that the unemploy-
ment situation is responsible for a large percen-
tage of it. Certain other figures are of like im-
' port. The average increased use of all summer
camps maintained by community recreation or-
ganizations was sixty-six per cent; the average
increase in attendance at public bathing beaches
was 130%. A number of recreation leaders re-
port that these increases are due-in part to the
fact that families usually going aVvay for the sum-

mer-were unable to do so last year, being obliged
to rely on nearby beaches for their contribution
to summer recreation,...and that. families which
formerly took their.children to the country with
them or‘ sent their children to camps privately
maintained, were financially unable to do so last
summer and called upon public recreation camps
operated at cost to provide for their children what
they previously had provided from their own
pocketbooks.

Some cities have established special additional
recreation centers for the unemployed, usually in
connection with: lodging houses or emergency em-
ployment offices. We all know probably of the
outstanding example of this service in Philadel-~
phia, where a special center organized by the Play;
grounds Association of Philadelphia, had an aver-
age weekly attendance last.winter of more than
22,000. Cincinnati, Highland Park, Michigan,
and other cities have made Special provisions of
this nature. .

We have specific local testimony and reliable
figures covering most of our larger urban centers
which clearly indicate that we not only have a re-
sponsibility for meeting the recreational needs of
the unemployed, but that we are meeting them.
Who knows what the demands next year will be?
They will surely be as great and possibly greater,
and they must be met. They cannot be met, how-
ever, except as local support of recreation ser-
vice is fully maintained and preferably increased,
and only so long as support is forthcoming to
maintain the national leadership essential in this
phase of the depression, just as national leadership
is essential in the employment and relief phases.

The Children Must Not Suffer!

Public statements are being made occasionally
that while the people of our country are starving
we have no right to spend money on recreation;
We have no right to contribute money to the char-
acter building program of the country. Such
comment is as unsound as it is unfortunate. In-
dividuals of wealth do have tremendous pressure
upon them for contributions for relief purposes.

'Our local and state governments are under terrific

pressure to increase tax apprOpriations for re-
lief. Local resources, public and private, are be-
ing mobilized to meet the need for ‘food, clothing
and shelter. This is only right. But America
can feed, clothe and shelter its unemployed until
work has been found for them, and it has the re;-
sources'to do so without taking from the child
those things which are rightfully his and which“

486 RECREATION IN THE UNEMPLOYMENT CRISIS

he must have if he is to be the type of citizen
who tomorrow will provide the quality of leader-
ship for America essential to its sound progress
and position of world leadership.

Those who are devoting their full time and
thought to the present situation and who are
familiar with all of its implications, do not agree
with the pr0phets of expediency. Mr. Walter S.
Gifford, Director of the President’s Organization
on Unemployment Relief, sent the following letter
last month to the National Social Work Council,
composed of more than twenty of the leading so-
cial work agencies of the country:

“The President’s Organization on Unemploy-
ment Relief is an emergency organization con-
cerned with problem's growing out of unemploy-
ment and, therefore, emphasis is put Upon unem-
ploymcnt relief programs. It is obviously impor-
tant, however, that localities give careful con-
sideration to a well rounded community program
and undertake to carry forward health work,
where needs will be increased; child care which
will present even greater demands if the welfare
of children is to be looked after; and that con-
siderable group of activities of so-called character
building agencies for whose services there has
probably never been a greater need, if the morale
of young people and adults is to be maintained.”

The President of the United States in his mes-
sage to this Recreation Congress states that all
agencies which help to build health and character
are eSpecially necessary in these days and merit
whole-hearted and generous support.

We all ought to be greatly encouraged by the
way in which the American people last year have
resisted the temptation of expediency and have
followed the more constructive course. The rec-
ord of local recreation service last year shows
that public financial support has been generally

maintained and even somewhat increased. In the .

item of trained leadership alone an increase of
more than one million dollars was reported over
the previous year, and a large part of this was
undoubtedly for leadership in play activities for

children. We find that not only did previously
existing playgrounds increase their service twelve
and a half per cent, but that 467 new playgrounds
were Opened for the first time and that the total
playground service of the country increased 38%
over that for 1929. We cannot get away from
these facts. Children must be protected and our
American communities are seeing that they are
protected and we are confident that they will con-
tinue this support during the coming year.

The fine record of service of the recreation
movement in 1930 is one of which we can be
proud. It is one which we must use every effort
to maintain and strengthen. Although our locali-
ties have tremendous pressure on them from many
sources, they will not consciously move backward.
It is essential that recreation leadership continue
to interpret the movement to localities to keep
before them its special contribution and its proper
place in the local picture. We must give
not only good service, but we must interpret it
ably.

Our communities will stand behind us when
they understand our message.

It is written in the Book of Genesis that the
Lord blessed the day of His unemployment, His
leisure time, whether it was a day or an age, and
hallowed it. This suggests our high purpose:
to help our fellowmen to hallow the periods of
their leisure which, even in most prosperous
times are, for millions, two whole days and large
fractions of the five remaining days, so that their
lives may be blessed by them and not cursed.
Yours is as high a mission as that of those who
teach man how to labor, and I say that on the
authority of Dr. Jacks. The old Latin saying
was that to labor is to pray—“laborare est orare,”
but I can believe that the prayer which most de-
lights Him is when it is our chief end to glory
and enjoy forever all that we make when we play,
play creatively and joyously.

“Remember the days of leisure to keep them
holy.” That is the interpretation that should be
given the Fourth Commandment.

How Two Recreation Departments Are Helping

THE newly organized brass band fostered by the
Playground, Commission of Cedar Rapids,
Iowa, is helping greatly by furnishing music for
many groups which cannot afford to engage bands.
Playground gardens furnished 30 bushels of gar-
den produce for the use of the city’s relief
kitchens.

In cooperation with the Detroit Federation of
Women’s Clubs, a bazaar will be opened before-
Christmas at which the women of the handcraft
classes maintained by the Department of Recrea-
tion may sell their products to the club women
of the city. This is a practical and much appre—
ciated form of service.

Millions for Progress

By David Cushman Coyle
Consulting Engineer, New York City

was lost, for lack of a sail the ship was lost.” Saving at the
Spigot and wasting at the bung is the characteristic problem
that confronts those who try to improve the quality of our civilization.
There is not money enough to furnish decent conditions of living for
everybody, and so the bill for sickness and crime and plain loss of

” F OR lack of a pin the block was lost, for lack of a block the sail

Mr. Coyle is the author
of an article entitled
"Public Works and Pros-
perity" which appeared in
the October issue of "The
American City" and of an
article on stabilizing busi-
ness, published in the No-
vember issue of the "Ar-
chitectural Forum." It is
his hope that the article
which he has prepared for
"Recreation" will help
stimulate thinking. He is
eager to be challenged on
his theory and will be glad
to have comments from

morale runs to fantastic ligures. How to find money for the ounce
of prevention is a vital question if the cultural level of this country is

readers of "Recreation."

 

to be raised against the weight of all our past omissions.

A Chance for a New Deal

It is plain enough that this is a time when the
old ways of looking at things have been washed
loose, and there is a chance of a new deal. It is
a time to examine the confused mass of ideas that
are floating about and see which ones can be put
together to give us a new and better pattern.
There are some ideas that will fit with the need
of more money for the constructive work of cul-
tural advance. First, there is the widespread de-
mand for public and semi-public work for the
sake of employment. Here is surplus labor—a
million men or so even in boom times—not only
unused, but forced into demoralization and de-
pendence. Here is a tremendous program of civic
betterment that cries aloud for fulhllment. Those
two facts fit into one pattern. Then there is a
third fact that is now widely recognized. We are
overbuilt and overequipped on the commercial
and industrial side. If good times should come
back, they would be based on a blind rush to over-
build still further, an dthey would inevitably lead
us into another crash. There is a vital need to
withdraw money from the capital and credit avail—
able for investment in commercial enterprises, so
that the existing enterprises may have a fair
chance to prosper. This fact also fits into the
pattern.

Here we have all the necessary factors, all of
them torn loose by the stress of the times and
hurting enough so that everybody is thinking
about them. If -they can be tied together so that
they will stay put through the next period of pros-
perity, we can get less overbuilding, more employ—
ment, a sounder buying power, and a great pro—
gram of cultural advance. That means a longer
wait for the next depression, and better resources
to meet it when it arrives. There are a great
many things the matter with our social structure,
and no one measure can be expected to cure them
all. It is very significant, however, that three of
our worst troubles should happen to be linked
together so that they all require the same pro-
gram. It stands hrmly on three legs.

The Problem

The problem resolves itself into this: How can
the capital which is normally destined to go into
industrial overexpansion be diverted into public
and semi-public work, so that the labor which is
normally destined to work itself out of a job
can be used instead for building better living
conditions? '

Before this problem can be solved it will be
necessary to take a broad view of the whole pur-
pose of the industrial system, in order to disen-
tangle some of the moral judgments that were

487

488 - MILLIONS FOR PROGRESS

appropriate in the past but are now no longer
valid under present conditions. It is, in the first
place, no longer true that the value of an enter-
prise is measured in any way by its capacity to
produce money dividends. For instance, if a new
factory with all the latest machinery can take the
market away from the older factories, so that they
are forced to run on short time, the total overhead
of the industry as a whole may be increased; so
that the saving in cost to the public may be more
than cancelled ' by the public’s loss of buying
power. In that case the excess equipment, though
iit is profitable to its owners, may be a loss to the
community as a whole. It may be hard to prove
lthe loss in a given instance, but it is obvious that
éif a thousand men work on double shifts in one
ifactory, there will be less overhead than if they
work single shifts in two factories. And one of
{the most evident facts in America is that too much
lequipment is not a productive investment for the
lnation. On the other hand, if the community in-
lvests money in a playground, with a total clear
Ecost to the taxpayers of $20,000 a year, and if the
icost of petty thieving and juvenile court is cut
$20,000 a year, the other advantages can be con-
sidered as clear velvet. The terms “productive”
and “nonproductive” have no direct connection
with whether the particular capital invested shows
a book profit. The question is whether America
is richer or poorer in the long run.

-Another moral judgment that needs to be re-
vised is that large concentrations of capital are
the foundation of prosperity. When the most
pressing need of the young nation was more pro-
duction of salable goods, that was perhaps true.
Now it is not. The kind of prosperity that is
caused by large masses of investment money is a
stock market boom combined with an orgy of
overbuilding; it is not a healthy food for business,
but a stimulant which is always followed by a sick
spell.

Accordingly we need have no compunctions in
advocating a drastic reduction of the concentra-
tion of investing power, and the use of the money
to build projects which will produce not unsalable
goods, but desirable improvements and buying
power.

A Suggested Solution

The legitimate source of funds for a large
building program. is the great mass of capital
which normally would be used in promoting in-
dustrial overexpansion. This capital is tapped by
the upper brackets of the income and inheritance

L. I

F,.

taxes. These taxes, as Mr. Mellon says, discour—
age enterprise, that is, competition, and too much
competition is what ails American business. It is
therefore apparent that national and state gov-
ernments, which have the power to levy income
and inheritance taxes, should be the chief agents
in raising funds for a public works pr0gram.
Semi-public work can also be stimulated by pro-
viding a heavy rebate for approved contributions.
Bonds should be more freely used to make the in-
come of good times pay for work in hard times.

By this development of our present tax system,
we can effectively reduce three of our most press-
ing difficulties to some semblance of control. The
money comes out of overbuilding, and goes into
badly needed improvements, by way of reducing
unemployment. That will leave us in shape to
tackle some of our other problems with a greatly
improved vitality.

It is necessary to look at public work in its true
perspective. Construction in all its forms is one
of the most powerful causes of prosperity. Dur-
ing the up-swing of the business cycle new build-
ing is active, and furnishes a market for industry
of all sorts. At the peak, the newly built indus-
trial plants come into action to intensify competi-
tion, increase overhead, and destroy profits. Busi-
ness is poisoned by the effects of overbuilding,
and collapse ensues. Public building, on the other
hand, has the same nourishing effect on business
while it is in process, without any toxic action
after it is done. To transfer capital from indus-
trial constructon to public works is therefore to
give business a valuable food in place of an indi-
gestible one.

Note: This is not the place to discuss at length
the underlying economic theses, but they may be
mentioned briefly just to indicate what they are.
(1) To force the rate of obsolescence far beyond
the rate of amortization is inefficient. (2) In a
developed system where the openings for sound
investment are limited, the right to invest does not
inhere in the possession of money, but is affected
with a public interest. (3) Sound policy requires
that the ability to pay taxes be held to be propor-
tional not to income but to surplus, i.e., income
less expenses. (4) Finance is the servant of busi-
ness. (5) The strengthening of the existing eco-
nomic system is a sufficient benefit to justify taxa-
tion of its chief beneficiaries.

Anyone wishing to communicate with Mr.

Coyle regarding his article may address him at
101 Park Avenue, New York City.

Why Maintain and Increase Recreation in

Times of Depression and «Unemploymem‘? 

There is iust as much damage to a city

in closing recreation facilities in a time

of depression as in closing down banks.

By Cyrus F. Stimson

National Recreation Association

HY not exclude the character—building,
W constructive and preventive agencies

from sharing in the Community Fund
and public relief drives in times of extraordinary
business depression, unemployment and great
need of charity supplies for food, fuel, housing
and the material necessities of life? Is the rea-
soning sound and the counsel sane which urges
such exclusion or limitation and tends to return
to an outgrown, primitive, unscientific attitude of
mind in civic standards and social service prin—
ciples?

Years ago when Dr. Hopkins left a forty year
pastorate in Kansas City to assume the presidency
of Williams College, Mr. Simeon B. Armour,
eldest of the famous packing house Armour broth-
ers, characteristically voiced his sentiments to the
effect that Kansas City might better have lost one
of its great packing plants than to have suffered
the removal of this great civic servant and leader.
It was Mr. Armour’s way of stressing the values
to a community of a type of leadership which had
infiltrated through the whole life of the city, built
up and expressed in many young men trained to
civic ideals and social service and leavening the
life and spirit of the city with
human values far richer than
mere material prosperity.

When we defend and ex-
pound the value of recreation
in public and private agencies
in times like these, we include

in principle and substance the values.

It is not so much the economic ef—
fects of the depression which are to be
feared as the harvest of the spiritual
depression with its far—reaching con-
sequences. America is facing rnany
problems; none is more serious than
that of the conservation of human

It

whole group of like or allied services of the char-‘1
acter—building and preventive and creative service
types, without taking time and space to call the
roll known to everybody. ‘
In the great war we all remember how all these
agencies, severally or in grouped coordination,
were mobilized and supported in emergency mill
lions of total expenditure, in order to sustain the
fighting morale and help maintain a sound nor—
mality of health—in body, mind and spirit.

Profound Issues Are at Stake

In my judgment we are now enduring, and for
a considerable time ahead must continue to fight
through with a will to mastery and victory, a
period of crises far graver than that of the great
war. Viewing the whole situation as to its funda-
mentals, we have at stake more profound issues
and more far-reaching consequences for good or
ill. If we understand the issues and meet the
needs, our mastery may be magnificently produc-
tive. If we fumble, muddle and fail, our losses
and defeat will be monumentally destructive.

These times demand an increase in facilities and
leadership of all the planning, conserving, pre-
ventive, social and civic agencies, and a militant
resistance to all short-sighted and misguided
moves tending to weaken or suspend their com—
bined constructive power. If we allow them to
be starved or scuttled in this
profound emergency, we shall
do it at the peril of far-reach-
ing demoralization and waste,
and lend aid and comfort to
the forces of dislocation and
disruption.

Recreation is a public utility

489

490

serving community
interests interlocked
with public health,
education and citi-
zenship values fully
commensurate,
even in a financial
investment and in-
surance sense, with
such physical utili-
ties as streets, sew-
ers, water and
lights, but in real
human values, in-
calculably m 0 r e
vital, since they
serve the whole
spiritual man, mak-
ing for his health,
contentment, hap-
piness and creative
activities.

We hear the cry

WHY MAINTAIN AND INCREASE RECREATION?

"There is an ancient Greek saying: 'Cities were founded
that men might live and continued that they might live well.'
America has sought to realize this ideal in many ways. The city
community has been more and more clearly seen as a place in
which individuals and families should be able to live more vig-

orous. more satisfying. happier lives. We have set for our-
selves a higher standard than any of the nations.

"American cities seek to extend to all citizens opportunities
for health. recreation. education. social intercourse. enioy-
ment of beauty. and the development of character. To do
this agencies. public and private. have been created. Gradu-
ally they have built up a remarkable system of clinics. health
centers. visiting nurses. hospitals. societies for family care.
social settlements. gymnasia. playgrounds. public baths. clubs
for adults. for young people. for boys and girls. libraries.
schools. evening classes. art galleries. museums. public con-
certs. Large numbers of trained and experienced people are
devoting their lives to the carrying on of these activities.

"At a time when special appeals are being made for emer-
gency relief. it is vitally important not to withdraw suoport
from the fundamental and permanent social services. To fail
them now would be to lower American standards. to sacrifice
the future to the present. to undermine hope and courage just
when they need to be reenforced. Emergency relief must be

a temporary addition to the community's budget. public and
private. not a substitution for established obligations."

George E. Vincent. Ph.D..

instability, insan-
ity, crime tenden-
cies and other ab-
normalities in the
end—a vast load of
cost which society
must ultimately
bear.

On all sides we
hear that insanity
is on the increase.
until now in many
states over half the
beds are occupied
by patients men-
tally ill. Over-
crowding almost
everywhere p re-
vails in such insti-
tutions, even as in
jails and peniten-
tiaries. In the lat-
ter it appears that

that recreation and
s i 1n i la r services

must be cut down or eliminated as economy meas-
ures, or as luxury spending or for other like rea-
sons put in money-cost terms. Look this line of
argument squarely in the face as to facts. Re-
cently the costs of caring for uvenile delinquency
for one year in a city of less than 20,000 popu-
lation, from arrest, through custody and court
trials to commitment and institutional care, proved
to be $77,000. The cost of a year-round, public
recreation system for that city had been worked
out, as to leadership and program operation, well
distributed to serve the neediest sections, as $5,000
to $7,000. Thus the cost of legal care of delin-
quency was fully ten times as great to the tax-
payers who clamor for economy as that of the
recreation system.

Experts in social diagnosis increasingly em-
phasize the fact that the gravest loss and burden
of the business depression and unemployment now
prevailing is not on the material and economic
side but on the moral and spiritual sidef9x The
material and economic recovery may come more
or less quickly, its losses be repaired, and the new
estate be better than the old. The harvest of the
spiritual depression—the fruits produced by fear,
worry, broken peace and destructive sorrows in
multitudes of homes affecting the children of ten-
der years and high sensitiveness—will not crop
out for many years, but is sure to produce nervous

President-emeritus of the Rockefeller Foundation.

the majority of the
inmates are under

twenty-five years of age and many of them en-
tered their criminal careers through evil ways
of play, idleness, bad comrades and misdirected
energy in plastic youth. The loss to the nation
from crime runs into billions annually and tends
to increase with alarming acceleration. The cost
of all these preventive and character-building
agencies is a relatively few millions. The logic
of economics as well as civics obviously demands
a large increase in the volume and range of the
recreational and preventive services. It costs
vastly less to prevent than to correct or to punish
without ultimate rectification, the delinquent and
the criminal. The non—institutional care of delin-
quents by society runs from $12 to $16 per case,
while the institutional care runs from $400 a year
upward. The care of adult criminals in institu-
tions runs much higher still. The operating cost
of play programs to taxation ranges from $.50
to $1.50 per capita of total population. If total
park costs are added to recreation activities. the
per capita costs will range from $1.00 to $3.00.
For the individual participants in various activi-
ties the unit costs run down to a few cents each
-—-sums so slight as to seem almost trivial.

Preventive Value of Recreation

So much for the familiar but very important
negative line of thought. As often put, it costs

WHY MAINTAIN AND INCREASE RECREATION? 491

so much less to fence off the dangerous cliffs than
to pick up the dead and wounded and care for the
wreckage at the cliff bottoms. We all know that
no model reformatory, penitentiary, insane hos-
pital or institution for the custodial care of men-
tal defectives is run today without a well staffed
and outfitted recreational program as vital essen—
tials of effective care of the inmates. Surely this
must be decisively suggestive of the value of rec-
reational and character-shaping agencies for the
normal child, youth and adult.

It is surely no time to dismantle and starve
these recreational forces now that millions of
adults are driven for long periods of time into en-
forced leisure; when other millions of youths are
excluded from labor and urged to go back to
school or college; when multitudes of them can-
not find means for that use of their involuntary
leisure, and child labor is severely condemned
more than ever and thus more millions of chil-
dren have added idle time. On every hand we
hear reports of doubled attendance or more by
adults at children’s summer play centers and in
community centers in winter. Besides, many
thousands of families are packed into congested
quarters, sometimes several families housed in
space too small for one family, and the children
of such crowded housing are driven into the
streets, denied all the normalities of home life,
with chance neither for play nor study in their

homes.

This special condition of times of poverty and
want demands a very extensive increase in neigh-
borhood organization and the training and direc-
tion of large numbers of voluntary play helpers,
so that such children may be cared for in acces-
sible school or parish or settlement centers. There
is also a special need for the city-wide education
of parents as to the vital rights and needs of chil—

dren for home play and parental and adult sym- .

pathy and participation‘in bringing cheer, happi-
ness and laughter into the home life to offset the
prevailing depression, worry and gloom.

We shall not settle this question of the need and
rights of the recreational and “character-building”
agencies to an unreduced position in the Com-

\

munity Fund and emergency drives related thereto
unless we look more deeply than the present
period or crisis, no matter 'how severe it be, into
We must face the fact that
profound readjustments of masses of workers to

the longer future.

shorter work hours and work week are under
way, alongwith other readjustments in nominal
and real wages, profit-sharing in various forms,
increases in forms and substance of cooperation
between labor and capital—all brought about by
sheer force and compulsion of the progress of
invention, advances in sciences as applied to in-
dustry in all its forms, from agriculture to every
form of technical production. This revolutionary
evolution, in the ultimate, must mean a permanent
expansion of leisure time for the laborers of every
grade, in every race and region. With this com-
pulsorily expanded off-duty time will come un-
doubtedly, progressively, a cultural rather than a
living wage for all workers.

This new era is essentially now upon us, but
it strikes us down 'rather than lifts us up by rea-
son of our universal and inter-continental unpre-
paredness to meet and organize the benefits of the
new cycle in our racial evolution and destiny. The
problems of stabilization of employment, building
reserves for labor support along with reserves for
capital security in times of prosperity to meet the
periods of slackening consumption, and the mas-
tery of a better distribution and consumption of
goods and services and a freer fiow of universal
trade, are now acutely distressing and constitute
an almost universal, revolutionary bewilderment
and perplexity for even the wisest leaders in the
field of intermeshed economics and politics.

Therefore, it is the emergency duty of the hour
for all educational, civic, social and business lead-
ership, together with the moral and religious
forces for stabilization and sound planning, to
hold up every arm and agency of the preventive,
constructive and creative sort, against depletion or
displacement by any set of forces or sentiments,
that we may, all together, better meet the full de-
mands of the current and coming emergency, and
make such real advances now as the impending
and certain future requires of us.

Recreation
in. the

. Unemployment Relief Program

.4_  b -

ND! 2
pEPlOD Ol: EFFODT Aegean
CHARITY
AT This
By Charles H. English POINT

Philadelphia Playgrounds Association

Have you thought of what is hap-
pening, mentally and spiritually,
to the men who are unemployed?

physical necessities of life and merit first
consideration by a community in its effort
for unemployment relief. Society generally rec-
ognizes its obligation for providing employment
to those who are willing to help themselves and
thereby maintain economical independence.
Under normal conditions the established relief
and welfare agencies of society maintain a service
capable of meeting normal exigencies. The pres-
ent economic upheaval has caused imperative and
overwhelming demands upon those agencies which
are now regretfully informing the public that they
cannot alone cope with the present situation. They
urge that all community resources and reserves
must be marshalled into a cohesive force in order

F OOD, shelter and medical care are prime

POINT OF YICIDUJA (SS

ANTI - SOCIAL

BEHAVlOl? ‘~. ATTITUDE5

service agencies, rec-
reation leaders were
among the first to
realize that they had
an important contri—
bution to make in
this crisis. The re-
cent Recreation Con-
gress held at T0-
ronto revealed an
amazing ramification
of recreational serv-
ices that are being
rendered to cities in
all parts of North

America by govern-°

mental and private

Line A to D in this chart
represents the line of nor-
malcy. The length or dura-
tion of the cycle A to B—
periocl of effort—is a vari-
able according to the age.
'eclucation. or economic
experience of the indi-
vidual. The same factors
influence the positive or
negative behavior curve.
The section B to C repre-
sents the period of anti-
social behavior and atti-
tudes. while C to D is char-
acterized by indifference
on the part of the unem-
ployed man.

to provide the necessities of life to an ever in-
creasing number of its citizens.

Responding to this emergency call are many
community agencies who are not classified as re-
lief organizations. In this group of community

492

recreation organizations.

From experience these leaders have found that
in order for the individual to maintain a normal
balance, he must have something in addition to
that ordinarily provided by relief agencies. He

i
kl

RECREATION IN THE‘.RELIEF7 PROGRAM

needs leadership in rational thinking; he needs
provision fOr wholesome emotional outlets; he

[needs the opportunity to regain self—respect; he

needs guidance in adjusting himself to a new vo-
cational status; he needs substitutes for anti-
social behavior tendencies; he needs to be shown
new ways to enjoy his leisure, perhaps to use the
free facilities offered by the community; in short,
he needs assistance in building up his morale
which has been in a majority of cases badly shat-
tered.

It is common sense to assert that communities,
in developing their plans for unemployed relief,
should present to its needy citizens a balanced
ration of physical necessities, employment and
means for maintaining morale.

In Philadelphia
an outstanding ex-
ample of such plan-
ning has been suc—
cessfully developed
in the operation of

.its Shelter for

Homeless Men.
The committee in
charge was a sub-
division of the gen-
eral Lloyd’s Com-
mittee on Unem-
ployed relief. The
personnel of the
Shelter Committee
brought together
religious leaders,
social workers,
business executives

and recreation or-  ‘5’ OPPOFlUHltl}
ganizers. At this  . b t0 Will/Ole?
Shelter provision empomry l0 lfC'l'lleUE 0f

was made for pro-
viding speaking ac-
commodations and
food for 3,000
men, who also re-
ceived medical
care, personal serv-
ice and recreational opportuni-
ties. Any man who was Willing
to work or who had been on
work assignments was permitted
to enjoy the privileges of the
Recreation Department.

The first step in the develop-
ment of the Recreation Club was

0nd

employment.

 

' _not dole. different kind

of work.

lion-d2 ndence men hovmd
. Aimilar experi—

J

A suggestion as to community
responsibility is involved in this
chart. After a man accepts char-
ity what is the responsibility of
the community? There are at
least four major steps—self-
respectl location adjustment.
social integration. and sustained

  

ob

493

to furnish the usual facilities that would be in-
teresting tomen—checkers, card games, library,
pool, gymnasium, entertainments and the like.
The second step was to study the men so that a
program could be developed which -would meet
their needs and not merely be a form of amuse-
ment. These homeless men may be divided into
two majorgroups. In one group are those above
the moron type, of which 14% were graduates of
high school and college. The second group are
society misfits, of low intelligence, and many of
the professional panhandler type.

Mental Attitudes

It was discovered that the men of the first
group, from the time they were thrown out of
' ' work and their ac-
ceptance of charity,
had gone, generally
speaking, through
three cycles of ex'—
perience. The first
cycle was that of
“Effort” in trying

————a

£55704 GAE
C/f/ZE/VJH/D

to locate w o r k,
with i t s morale
USTAI D levels p a s sin g

through the median
line of encourage-
ment and failure.
The duration of
this cycle is a varia-
ble due to such fac-
tors as age, past
experience, train—
ing and nationality.

,4 ml. . .

ngortunitq llVlnd The second cycle
to participate wage. mlght be called
In whole/Jame that of “Anti-
recreation Social Behavior.”

H e re we see a
sharp dip in the
negative reaching
in some cases the
point of vicious-
ness. Fortunately
the majority turned back before
becoming aggressive in anti-
social acts. As one views the
outlook this winter it is fair to
assume that many more will
reach the stage of viciousness due
to the limitations of human suf-
fering. The third cycle is one of

directed ,bu

QHCQ.

494 RECREATION IN THE RELIEF PROGRAM

!

“Indifference.’ Drifting with the tide, loss of
pride'a'nd self respect, abnormal views of life and
inability to create the spark of ambition to pull up
from a shattered, depressed mental attitude, are
characteristics of this period. Men who represent
this group develop an intensely individualistic
type, sensitive to the point where they refuse to
divulge their inner thoughts and attitudes. Thus
surface indications are misleading.

The second group, accustomed to maladjusted
experiences, many of them parasites upon society
at all times, are more easily understood and pro-
vision for their needs is relatively simpler than
for the first group.

With this understanding of the problem the sec-
ond step in the program was to develop objec-
tives. For the first group the objective was in
general to help the unemployed man regain a
healthy state of mind and body by,

1. Providing for wholesome, interesting exer-
cise through sports under the direction of a
trained leader.

2. Creating a means of helping him to regain
self respect and self control.

3. Give him a normal outlook upon life by sub-
stituting for his negative reactions a positive pro-
gram of spiritual values and activities that bring
joy and contentment of mind.

4. Assist him in finding a way either to improve
his skill in a recent vocation or to train him in
an entirely new vocation adjusted to his ability
and aptitude.

For the second group the program is designed
with the major objective of keeping him from
clogging up the machinery of finding employment
for those who have dependents and to make the
Recreation Department so interesting that he will
choose to remain at the Shelter and not molest the
public by begging or committing minor robberies.

The Program

Health and Morale. These foundational ob-
jectives were always kept in mind in developing
the program for the first group.

It was found that music, either in the absorp-
tion of fine music or in participating in its many
forms, was the best cohesive medium for breaking
down abnormal individualism and raising morale
to higher planes. So mass singing, house orches-
tras, a minstrel show and exceptional musical
programs presented by outside volunteer organi-
zations were provided.

Reading material was furnished by the City
Library and a section of the quiet game room was

designated for those who enjoyed this form of
relaxation and mental stimulus. Reading was the
most consistent p0pular activity in the Recreation
Department. One could be so absorbed in read-
ing as to forget the troubles of life and it re-
quired no cooperation from his fellows.

Next in popularity were checkers, cards and
puzzles. However, pool, shufiie board and ping
pong ran a close second. The active games of
handball, boxing, basket ball, quoits, tennis and
box hockey were usually enjoyed by the younger
men who had vitality and needed to express them-
selves through vigorous activity.

Men not on work assignments were admitted
to the Recreation Club at 10:00 A. M. daily. He
had the opportunity to choose the form of recrea-
tion of his liking during the rest of the day.

In the evening a program was arranged for the
entire group as follows:

Monday, Boxing Shows

Tuesday, Minstrel Show

Wednesday, Sport Night

Thursday, Open Night

Friday, Outside talent

Saturday, Moving pictures

Sunday, No activity—~special program

A training quarters was provided for the boys
who desired boxing. The director was a former
professional boxer. No man was allowed in the
ring without a medical examination and at least
two weeks’ training. The shows were under the
direction of the State Boxing Commission and the
bouts were either matches within the club mem-
bership, outside boxers, or mixed. The ring used
was the one in which Gene Tunney won his crown
in Philadelphia some years back. The boxers al-
ways felt a thrill to perform on his “hallowed”
stage.

The Open night entertainments were provided
by musical or dramatic organizations in the city
which sought to render service to the men.

These entertainments not only served to amuse
the men but have been an active agent in building
morale. To laugh and enjoy wholesome fun is
an asset in such a gathering. The negro is a
decided help in this matter of building up spirit.
His spontaneous merriment, his general attitude
and laugh-provoking antics place him in the front
ranks as an aid in sustained morale.

A New Vocational Approach

This coming season it is planned to inaugurate
a new plan to assist the men in their vocational
adjustments by a cooperative effort involving the

INCREASING RECREATION CENTERS 495

aid of the Public Schools. The plan calls for the
installation of a series of major vocation units
presided over by skilled teachers but with no idea
of teaching the skills of each unit. Rather, the
idea is to have on hand a sample, if you please, of
types of vocational machinery so that the men
may test their interests and there may be awak-
ened hidden or thwarted desires in preparation
for a new kind of a job. When an observer is
satisfied he has found his new interest, he will be
directed for intensive training to the nearest
school where that subject is taught.

In addition to the above method it is planned
to have instruction in packing of merchandise (to
supply stores for Christmas Season), training for
men servant positions, janitorships, and like serv-
ices. Instruction will be given in those types of
handicraft which may be readily sold, such as
hand tooled brass ash trays. The opportunities
for art expression will be offered in training in
music, especially dance orchestras (if this can be
classified as art), in poster and sign work, and in
any other form in which a sufficient number of

men register to warrant the assignment of an
instructor.

An attempt will be made to provide instruction
in those activities which the men desire during
their enforced leisure which is not now offered
them free by existing public or private community ,
organizations. a

Good fellowship, a congenial atmosphere, a
spirit of contentment and happiness are all bene-
ficial in dealing with these unfortunate men, and
the recreation leaders are constantly endeavoring
to attain it. The present crisis, however, calls for
an extended program, a plan that strikes deeper
into the roots of maladjusted individuals and uses
the usual program of play and recreation as a
means to a richer and more significant end—that
of assisting men through subtle leadership and
manual manipulation of facilities to achieve a
well functioning physical machine, and a balanced,
mental pattern that has hope, clarity of ideals,
ambition and patience to abide the time when they
can again enjoy peace and a richer life.

Increasing Recreation Centers

ECREATION departments, their facilities
overtaxed, are faced with the necessity of

developing flexibility in their programs; of
adapting them to meet existing needs; of finding
ways of using facilities so as to serve the em-
ployed in their leisure as well as the unemployed
at times which do not interfere with their search
for work. This presents a real challenge to rec-
reational leadership.

Very often existing facilities are proving inade-
quate and it is necessary to secure additional cen-
ters. The first drive is usually for the use of
more school buildings, and boards of education
are giving splendid cooperation. Lacking school
centers, recreation departments are using build-
ings of all kinds.

The Board of Education of Ossining, New
York, has turned over to the Recreation Com-
mission a building originally constructed for a
Y. M. C. A, which for the past few years has been
used as a school gymnasium but is now not
needed. It was about to be torn down when the
Commission approached the Board of Education
with the request that it be turned over for use as
a recreation center.

The Playground and Recreation Commission
at Dubuque, Iowa, has renovated the third floor

of City Hall which has been unused for years
and has installed four indoor horseshoe courts
lighted for night use.

When it was found that the situation in York,
Pennsylvania, necessitated the obtaining of addi-
tional centers, the old York Academy gymnasium
was renovated and equipped with hot and cold
water for use in an athletic program. The
armory, too, has been opened for the use of men
and boys, and additional centers have been estab-
lished in three churches. One will be opened from
one to five on Tuesdays for quiet games and
drama. The gymnasium of the second church
will be available on Wednesdays from one until
five for basketball, volley ball, music and drama.
In the gymnasium of the third church there will
be basketball, volley ball and horseshoe pitching.

The Recreation Division of the Department of
Public Welfare of Louisville, Kentucky, has
opened a center for the unemployed in a room
located above the Welfare Department ofhces
where the unemployed come for relief. The
room has been equipped with games and the pub-
lic library is furnishing books and magazines.

Cities everywhere are finding that public lib-
raries are glad to supply books and magazines and
that appeals through the local press are effective.

 

Courtesy Playground: Association of Philadelphia

Games of the type of table pool and shuffle board
are popular wlth both partlclpants and spectators

Public Recreation in Periods

of Economic Depression

11F. Chairman. Otto
T. Mallery, s u g -

gested that we call
this a “lift period”
rather than a period of depression. His observa—
tions indicate that this period of readjustment has
been more productive of results than similar
periods have been, and there is a greater effort
now than ever before to understand the funda-
mental causes of our economic distress and its
ramified effect.

W'eaver \V. Pangburn of the National Recrea-
tion Association pointed out that the present situa-
tion, involving as it does a strong drive for muni-
cipal economy and concentration of publicity on
relief needs, makes it imperative that recreation
leaders undertake basic interpretations of their
work and do not follow routine publicity methods.
it is not enough to secure a great deal of news-
aper space on activities. Through one medium
.ir' another we must explain to those who support
he programs what the fundamental objectives
and \ dues are in public recreation.

490

By John Walter

President, Kitchener, Ontario, Recreation
Association

To realize educational
publicity of this type.
some kind of a well
thought out plan is es-
sential. That plan should cover, at least in rough
form, a period of a year. At least four elements
should be recognized in the organization of such
a plan: (1) Ideas and objectives practically cer-
tain of public approval; (2) The various mediums
of publicity; (3) The week to week and the
month to month schedule of activities in the
recreation program; (4) Current events, such as
meetings and reports of other social agencies,
some of them predictable and others unexpected.

Basic objectives in recreation which the public
really respect are: (1) The heavy demand made
on the personnel and facilities of recreation de-
partments. This certainly should be given ample
publicity, since it reflects the value put on organ-
ized recreation by the participating public.
(2) Health. (3) Safety of children. (4) Char—
acter growth in children. (5) Happiness (most
men and women want to help guarantee the

' RECREATION IN AN EGONO-MIC DEPRESSION 49%

happy play of children even during these times
of stress). (6) Work opportunities provided in
deve10ping parks and playgrounds for the unem—
ployed. (7) The courage and morale building im—
portance of recreation for those jobless who have
not sunk into complete despair or indifference.

It would seem that the interpretation of these
objectives and values would stand the acid test of
current critical public opinion. Certainly recrea-
tion leaders can demand that innocent children
shall not be made to pay the price of the condi-
tions of depression and unemployment for which
they are in no way responsible. Any reduction in
play leadership at this time is utterly false econ-
omy. In one large midwestern city where the
playgrounds were deprived of leaders, the rise in
neighborhood robberies and gang tights was im-
mediate. Even the playgrounds themselves be-
came the centers of hoodlumism and vice.

In many communities the neighborhood play-
ground and [indoor recreation center are the
refuge of children and youth whose homes are
wrapped in an atmosphere of gloom and unhappi-
ness because of the unemployment of parents and
the empty family purse. As a school superin-
tendent in an Ohio city recently said, “The chil—
dren of depression are just as important as the
children of prOSperity.” And someone else has
said, “Second only to the physical hunger that
comes from lack of food is the spiritual hunger
that comes from lack of activity.”

These fundamental reasons for play and recre—
ation are being successfully employed in various
cities. A powerful plea for the health, safety,
and happiness of- children in Lima, Ohio, resulted
in saving the summer playground budget of
$5,000. The New York Times recently ran a
column length story in
which the. plea of Com-

community recreation programs. If these funda~
mental objections and values are given studied‘
interpretation through a variety of mediums, Mr.‘
Pangburn. predicted there can be little doubt that
good recreation programs will be sustained and'
will receive a more intelligent and consistent pub-:
lic support than ever before.

Oscar'Kuolt of the Council of Social Agencies,
ROChester, New York, suggested that the solution
of the problem is to an important extent the task
of the organizer of public recreation whose re-
sponsibility it is to stress the constructive side of
the program. Recreation workers, he felt, have
been too prone to rely on newspaper publicity for
getting their story across. It will have its part,
but alone it will fall far short in the present crisis.
Too many people still think recreation is the ice:
cream and cake of the community program, and
for this reason publicity must be worked out very
carefully and thoughtfully with reference to fun—
damentals and objectives, for these are the vital'
things. Efforts should center around character-
building and we must crystallize our thinking on
things which are of basic importance. We must
know our facts and we must get a new set of
facts to interpret recreation to the community.
“Has recreation really reduced delinquency in my
city? Is it vitally touching the individual?”
Recreation workers must have definite instances
to present and evidence that their claims of ac—
complishment are real. Social workers, clergy-
men, private character-building agencies can help
the recreation worker. Get their cooperation and
the facts they can give you. It is better to have
these groups fighting for you than to tight for
yourself.

Mr. Kuolt urged the building up of a series of
discussion groups through-
out the community to dis-

munity Councils for an ap—
propriation of nearly $300,-
000 for playgrounds was
supported by strong state—
ments by prominent citizens
centering around the health,
character developing, safety,
and citizenship values to
children of public play—
grounds. An excellent edi-
tor-ial in a Lansing Michi—
gan, new5paper, entitled,
“Recreation Studies Lans-
ing,” brought out the
morale building benefits of

The Council of Social Agencies of Mont-
clairI New Jersey, through its Group Agency
Division and the Recreation Committee, has
opened a communit center in a factory
building urchased y the city last year
which willDbe used chiefly for recreational
activities for the unemployed. The Park De-
partment has given most active cooperation
in the preparation of this center and has
installed steam heat in the large social hall
and restained and refinished the walls. The
Scouts, the Y.M.C.A. and all agencies with
the exception of the schools whose hours do
not permit them to do so. are furnishing
leadership for recreation between the hours
of 9 A.M. and 4:30 P.M. All necessary facili-
ties for making the room a club room for
quiet games are being installed.

cuss the value of recrea-
tion with recreation work-
ers as discussion leaders.
One recreation worker,
speaking before a church

‘ group which had expressed

the opinion that the present
financial depression was no
time to be stressing recrea-
tion activities, put this ques-
tion: “What would y 0 u
think of a plan to declare a
moratorium on church ac-
tivities, diverting the money
,saved to relief?” He then

498 RECREATION IN AN ECONOMIC DEPRESSION

skilfully brought in the moral value of recreation,
and the group was won over to his way of
thinking.

It is important to emphasize the fact that we
have carefully built up a program which is not
merely for the people who need relief but for all
people and it would be a tragedy to stop. “Don’t
do your talking,” said Mr. Kuolt, “entirely on
the basis of recreation but on the whole social
program.”

The community in organizing its recreation
program for the unemployed need not do the
spectacular thing, but it seems possible for all
communities to demonstrate the practicability of
giving work to the unemployed at constructive
community projects. Rochester as a result of
taking advantage of the work relief program, has
a new golf house, seventy-five acres of park land
opened up, new ovens, Scout cabins and tobog-
gans. Last summer when people began to use
these facilities they were not so prone to oppose
the recreation program.

William Bowie of Montreal said that in his
city a meeting of the character-building agencies
resulted in the housing of several thousand men
in a large Catholic school. From the ranks of
the unemployed leaders were drawn for activi-
ties in the shelter and the men of specialized
talent were sent out to help in the city’s recrea-
tion program. An expert aviation workman, for
example, in return for food and shelter was glad
to train boys in carpentry and woodwork. This
plan has been successfully followed in Philadel-
phia where workers are sent from the unemployed
to orphanages, settlements and similar institutions,
and leaders have been supplied for public recrea-
tion centers which would otherwise have been
closed in the morning because of lack of funds.

Mr. Bowie pointed out that the community has

many resources to tap. There are service organ-
izations and similar groups with money to con-
tribute, but they are watching progress before
they step in. What is needed is leadership.

Robert E. Coady of Cincinnati, Ohio, urged
that recreation workers use great discretion in the
publicity they give to the centers for the unem-
ployed. Many of the men are sensitive and the
psychological effect of too much publicity is bad.
In making elaborate plans for centers recreation
workers must be sure that they are used; other-
wise criticism will be aroused.

In a meeting of character-building agencies in
Reading, Pennsylvania, held to discuss unemploy-
ment problems and to prepare for the winter pro-
gram, it was decided to open more school build-
ings and to stimulate the recreation program in
these buildings instead of opening special centers.

In a number of cities there has been a cut in
budgets but an increase in the use of facilities be-
cause of the unemployment situation. Recreation
workers are learning to use ingenuity.

The consensus of Opinion was that the use of
recreation programs in centers where unemployed
men are being housed is very helpful in building
up morale. At first it may be necessary to use
outside talent in providing the recreation pro-
gram. Gradually the men will begin putting on
their own programs—a more desirable plan.

The point was made that many people in a
community because they have always paid for
their recreation do not know about the public
recreation facilities, and so it is important to
make use of posters listing free opportunities.
Posters should not be too large and it is'well not
to try to cover everything in one poster. The ex-
perience in Philadelphia has been that a number
of agencies which never before offered free serv-
ice are doing so now.

A Plea for the Protection of Children

“As Director of the President’s Organization
on Unemployment Relief, I urge the same unity
of effort to protect children as in meeting with
problems of adults.

“Hunger and poverty in children leave scars
for the future to reckon with. With adults the
task is largely remedial. With children the watch-
word is prevention. Public machinery directed
to the protection of childhood, such as public
health, welfare agencies, educational systems,

should be the last to be affected by measures of
economy. Communities will need to take care of
recreation and facilities for play, both public and
private. Our libraries, our parks, museums and
playgrounds are important havens in a troubled
time. Let us everywhere be on the guard against
any retrenchment which pinches the young.”—
Walter S. Gifford, Director, The President’s Or-
ganization on Unemployment Relief. From White
Home Conference Happenings, November, 1931.

What We Have Learned

HAT happened to
us during the war

By Joseph Lee, LL.D.

men and the verdict of
a philosopher, and now we

is happening again President, National Recreation Association have the VCTdiCt 0f experi"

in this period of depres-

sion which one of our speakers said should be
thought of as a “lift” period. We couldn’t tight
the war without recreation, and we can’t win out
during the present situation without resorting to
it. It has won its place as one of the essentials in
war and peace.

I am going to quote what two great statesmen
have said. The last sentence in President Hoover’s
message to us was: “All agencies which help to
build health and character are especially necessary
in these days and merit whole-hearted and gener—
ous support.” The Prime Minister of Canada
telegraphed: “During these trying days of eco—
nomic depression public expenditures should not
be cut from the morale-building activities of
parks, playgrounds and community centers and
other recreation facilities.”

We have these two strong pieces of testimony
as to the position that recreation
occupies in our lives in war and
in peace. That ‘is the verdict of
statesmanship.

We have next the verdict of a
philosopher, Dr. L. P. Jacks,
Professor of Philosophy at Ox—
ford and Editor of the Hibbert
Journal and head of the great
movement for adult education.
He said that recreation is essen—
tial for adult life and for our
education. Dr. Jacks was not the
first phiIOSOpher who said that. It was said by
Plato and Aristotle. There was a certain city
which adopted gymnastics and music as the whole
of its educational program. That city—Athens—
gave, I suppose, about half of the genius that ever
appeared in the world. Here is real testimony.

W e h a v e
heard the ver-
dict of states-

Each yearl as the Recreation
Congress closesI Joseph Lee
gives his general impressions of
the addresses and discussions
which have seemed to him espe-
cially significant. This brief in-
terpretation by Mr. Lee of the
Toronto Congress will be of in-
terest not only to delegates but
also to those who could not at-
tend but who wish to know the
trend of the discussions.

A Summary of Summaries

ence.

I talked with Mr. English of Philadelphia of
his work in providing recreation for the unem—
ployed, and he told of some of theithings which
are happening to these people who are out of work
—how they are cut off from the great root of life,
from the pleasure of being wanted, of having a
place in the world; how they want a chance to
be somebody, to be able to say, “I am one of the
crowd; I am holding up my end; I am a member
of the team.”

The cure that we all believe in is initiative, the
encouragement of initiative through recreation.
In this lies the secret of what we can do through
the recreation program for the unemployed in
helping them give expression to their feelings and
awakening them to the possibilities of life.

Encouraging things have been said in this
Congress about music. The radio [is now giving
us some of the very best music.
The lowly harmonica is begin—
ning to build up an appreciation
of music. More folk music is
being used; some of the ,best
music in the world is folk music.
It is never vulgar and never has
been; it may be simple but it is
always beautiful. There is no
necessity at all for making a com—
promise with anything vulgar in
music.

A great deal was said about the
making of leaders, about the use of junior leaders
on the playground. I think that is very valuable.
I have been told by one of the delegates that in the
German Youth Movement this junior leader
method is used almost exclusively. Let us never
forget the great quality of a leader—his knowl—
e d g e of the
beau— (Contin-
ued on page 532)

499

 

Phota 1:) D. IV. Thom

Summaries of

What They Said at

the Recreation "
Congress

bages and kings” were about the only sub-
jects which were not discussed at the sec-
tion meetings of the eighteenth annual Recreation
('ongress, and since the Congress was held in
Toronto, kings might well have been included!
The plan adopted several years ago of having
a summary of each section meeting presented the
following day, has met with such approval that it
has become an established part of the program.
Each morning, at a general meeting, five or six
delegates who have been commissioned to digest
Me findings of the previous day’s meetings, pre-
‘t'lll their reports. They are limited to a definite
In it with the result that a dramatic competition

’1 SHIPS and shoes and sealing wax, cab-

l4- 3.1...‘1‘0'1 as each summarizer attempts to com?

pleu. his report before he is summarin halted by
500

.r'" -- * nui-

In her national parks America has
rich possessions of rare beauty

:1 nonc-too-gently sounded musical note from the
timekeeper!

Brief reports are given here from eighteen
section meetings at Toronto covering a wide
range of subjects. It is unfortunate that lack of
Space necessitates cutting these summaries to a
minimum, but they will at least give the gist of
the discussions which took place.

Providing Recreation and Preserving

Beauty in Parks
BY ERNEST K. THOMAS,

Superintendent of Parks, Prozn'dence, Rhode Island

T is not surprising that an organization like
I the National Recreation Association should

have as the keynote of at least one session the
question of beauty in connection with its recrea-
tional facilities.

We have been criticized in the past because we
have not appreciated beauty. \Ve have devastated
our forests, polluted our streams, neglected our
beaches, and have failed to preserve our beauty
spots, but today there is very definite evidence
that all over the country, all over the world, people
are becoming conscious of the fact that there is
value, yes, even a dollar and cent value, in beauty.

There are movements afoot, such as the move-

SUMMARIES 501

ment to preserve roadside beauty, the planting of
trees, the conservation of our forests, the protec-
tion of our streams, lakes and beaches, all of
which indicate there is a growing interest in the
preservation and value of beauty. Therefore, rec-
reation facilities should not only be useful from
the standpoint of recreation, but they should be
beautiful from the point of view of beauty, and
the session that I am to review for you sets forth
seven questions which I shall attempt topanswer
from the discussion which took place at this group
meeting.

“Are beauty and rec-
reational uses of park
a r e a s incompatible?”
The ' answer is, No,
provided there is mut-
ual understanding and
cooperation between
the executives and the
right kind of leader-
ship, so that the great-
est possible human use
of the areas may be se-
cured. This involves,
of course, careful plan-
ning and the develop-
ment of a definite pro-
gram.

“Do attractive play
areas have greater use
t h a n unattractive
areas?” Yes, play areas
should be beautified as
much as possible.
While an attractive
p a r k or playground
adds to the value of ad-
jacent property, such
areas should be made
attractive for another
and even more impor—
tant reason, namely, to foster the love of beauty
which is a natural human instinct, especially the
beauty of growing plants, trees, shrubs, flowers
and grass. Therefore, people, young and old,
will be attracted in greater numbers and will
derive more benefit if the areas are beautified.

“What are some examples of the successful
combination of beauty and usefulness in areas of
different sizes and designed for different func-
tional uses ?” If the play areas are to be beauti-
fied by the use of plant material, then the planted
areas must be protected. A fence around the play-

3““

Courtesy U. S. Forest Service

  

 

Millions of people each year enjoy the beauty
which the Government is conserving for them.

ground is usually considered a necessity. Inside
the fence trees, groups of shrubs or flowersm‘iay
be planted; then a second fence, just high enough
to mark off the planted area from the walk or play
area, will be helpful. Another method which
avoids the lower inside fence is to arrange the
planting area between the. sidewalk and the fence,
settingéth'e fence back to the required distance
from the property line. Even a privet hedge and
a few trees around the boundary of a play area
Will add much to its appearance. Low fences and
privet hedges may be used to divide the area for
the use of different age
groups.

In the larger areas
more Space can be de—
voted to landscape fea-
'tures, thus adding to
the attractiveness and
usefulness. M e a n s
w e r e discussed of
bringing into the area
certain landscape ef-
fects and gardens such
as rose gardens. One
delegate brought out
one interesting point in
connection with beauti—
fication of play areas,
showing that knowl-
edge of plant material
is essential. He stated
that in his community
they had planted a lot
of tall poplar trees
around tennis courts
with the idea of beauti-
fying them and shad-
ing them, with the re-
sult that they shaded
them so m 11 ch the
courts did not dry out
readily after rain.

“What is the place of the landscape architect in
the design of new areas? Of the civil and con-
struction engineer? Of the recreation director?
What are their relationship to each other?”

In planning new parks, playgrounds, or areas
where play activities are to be provided, the park
executive, the playground executive and the en-
gineers should c00perate, each contributing of his
knowledge and services to the best development
of a project that will be of the greatest possible
use to all the people of the community. ‘

502 SUMMARIES

One gentleman reported an interesting play-
ground that is located in the mining district of
South Wales. He said that instead of the con-
crete wading pool they constructed a natural
winding brook around the playground. The chil-
dren built bridges over it, they waded in it, they
sailed their boats in it. We all know what an
appeal a winding brook had for most of us in our
childhood. Another delegate, speaking of play-
ground equipment, stated he thought we were in
the “open plumbing” days so far as the design of
open playground equipment was concerned.

“Should an area used exclusively for children’s
playground be of a minimum size if both beauty
and intensive use are both to be obtained?” It is
doubtful if any arbitrary rule can be stated. If a
five-acre tract of land can be secured, then much
greater use can be made of it, both as a play-
ground and a beauty spot, than if the area is only
one acre or less. It was said that if there must
be a choice between a half acre or nothing in a
certain section where a play area is badly needed,
the small sized area should be taken and use
made of it.

“Does the size of areas in itself have any rela-
tionship to attractiveness of its design ?” The
answer was, “to some extent.” As stated before,
the larger the area available, the greater the possi-
bilities for play areas and landscape effects, for
special gardens, like rose gardens, iris gardens,
water gardens, and fountains.

“Does t0pography govern beauty of develop-
ment ?” The answer was no, although it may be
a help. Play areas may be located on different
levels; the approach from one level to another by
means of grass banks, walls or steps, may be util-
ized in such a way as to add to the beauty of the

area.

Trends in Girls' Athletics
BY ETHEL PERRIN,

Vice-Chairman, Women’s Diw'sion, N .A.A.F.

OT only our room but our doorways and

walls were crowded, and we were just

getting thoroughly warmed up when it was
time to adjourn. There came a request from
the floor for a continuation meeting, so instead
of being a summary this is merely a report of
progress.

Our meeting opened with four discussions fol-
lowed by animated response from the floor. In
the discussion the following points were made:
In one large city the trend in the recreation pro-

gram for industrial girls is away from team games
toward so-called individual sports, and this trend
meets with the approval of personnel departments
in industry because the girls show no signs of
fatigue upon return to work. Play nights are
held once a month to emphasize the social values
of athletics and to arouse interest in new activi-
ties. A home or local grouping is also used to
promote loyalty toward the home organizations.
The training of women officials by the City Rec-
reation Association is an important part of this
program. The raising of qualifications of leaders
has been accomplished. Giving opportunities for
women and men to play together is considered
important in this industrial program.

From our next speaker we learned that there
is a decided trend toward training girls in activi-
ties which they can use in leisure time and that
while the “dubs” are usually taken care of during
school age, when they go into industry they are
dr0pped because they are not show material.

Between the ages of fourteen and twenty there
is a smaller decrease in tuberculosis than during
any other age period, and girls show a smaller
decrease than boys. This fact emphasizes the
danger of over-fatigue for girls and points toward
caution.

Our third speaker, realizing that girls and
women have entered the field of athletics, gave a
strong plea for careful regulations. The reasons
for this were: _

(a) Danger of the loss of femininity. To pre-
serve this a board of control composed of women
is advised, together with women officials, and no
commercialism or exploitation and a wise selec-
tion of activity.

(b) Over-fatigue, the remedy being a limited
participation and wise control.

From our fourth speaker we heard interesting
statistics of successful child-bearing among one
special team of women athletes. We were told
of 2,000 women successfully playing in a “soft-
ball” league. There was a plea for the expert
girl who might be neglected in a program planned
to include everyone.

The reply to this was that the exceptional girl
would naturally have her opportunity in a pro-
gram planned for all, and that stars would inevit-
ably rise to the top, for as was stated, “cham-
pions are born and not made.”

From the fioor came the following suggestions:
We must have many activities in order to give
many chances to excel in something because com-
petition is absolutely essential to a successful pro-

SUMMARIES 503

gram. In other words, “Why be stingy and give
it to only a few P”

Technically trained people should be in charge.

Athletics should be planned for the joy and
well-being of girls, not for entertainment of spec-
tators or financial return.

Finances entered into the discussion and it was
stated that girls’ athletics should be sponsored by
recreation or education departments and sub-
sidized from public funds.

If we change the word “coach” to “director,”
expensive coaches and men coaches can be elim-
inated. Further, if championships are eliminated,
coaches are not needed.

The. purpose of a program of athletics for
women was discussed. It was felt that if the best
informed and most influential women of a com-
munity are taking interest and responsibility in
the program the standards will rise. There
should be a combination of technically qualified
and lay women.

It is not the function of the program to pre-
pare entertainment.

The public should be educated and mothers
would respond.

A unanimous vote was cast for a program which
considered the interests of all girls.

As a result of the discussion at the second
meeting held on October 7th, those present com-
mended the following trends found in many
cities:

(1) The efforts, which are being made in many
cities to provide varied activity programs, con—
ducted for the benefit of all girls, under trained
women leaders.

(2) The growing tendency to make available
to young women and adults under recognized or-
ganizations and qualified women leaders, existing
indoor and outdoor facilities.

(3) The requirement of many progressive rec-
reation and school departments
of an adequate medical eicam-
ination and follow up work as
a basis of participation. This
includes a reasonable and sane
attitude toward, all temporary
physical unhtness.

(4) T h e recommendation
that girls be limited to three
or less track events in any one
day or only one team game in
any one day.

(5) The emphasis placed
on the joy of the sport, in-

thing of the

odically.

Now that the Toronto Congress is a
pastI interest centers
about the first International Recrea-
tion Congress to be held in Los An-
geles July 23d-29th, I932. In an article
in the January. I932. issue of Recrea-
tion. Mr. Harry Lamport. President of
the Los Angeles Department of Play-
ground and RecreationI will extend an
invitation to all interested in recrea-
tion to attend the Congress and to see
the Olympic Games which will follow.
Reports of progress made in planning
the program will be published peri-

cluding the right kind of competition, and on
character-building, rather than on championships
or on the interests of spectators. .

(6) The tendency to support all girls’ activities
with community funds rather than make it neces-
sary to have gate receipts to maintain the pro-
gram.

(7 )«Thcf'encouragement of girls to play for
the sake of the game rather than for awards of
value.

(8) The trend toward publicity of a kind which
deals with the sport or game itself rather than
that which stresses the spectacular story and the
individual girl.

Recreation in Small Towns and Rural Districts
BY ARTHUR E. WOOD,

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan
T HOSE who attended our discussions will un-

derstand me when I say that there was a cer-

tain zoological aspect to our group inasmuch
as several of our speakers claimed they were the
only ones, so far as they knew, of the species,
each doing a rather unique piece of work.

For example, the first speaker, Mr. Richard C.
Sidenius, Y. M. C. A. secretary in Wentworth
County, Ontario, told of working throughout the
county with the churches in the recreation held,
suggesting programs to Sunday School teachers
with whomihe holds conferences and organizes
teacher training classes in play leadership. He
told of one Saturday afternoon course for Sunday
School teachers of 282 persons from 82 churches
throughout his district. This work was carried
on without any separate organization for mem-
bership, without any special building. It has
secured the enthusiastic support of churches and
seems to be arousing them to take an active part
in the play leadership in these small communities.

Another speaker was Mr.
Harold E. Key, musical di-
rector of the Canadian Pacific
Railroad, He told most in-
terestingly of his work in the
organization of folk song fes-
tivals in Canadian cities and
towns where people were
brought together to present
the lore, the songs, the cus-
toms and costumes of people
of foreign heritage. At Winni-
peg, for example, a festival
of nineteen different races was

504 SUMMARIES

held during a period of four days, ending with
one large program with over 370 people on the
stage, producing a mass of glowing colors. To
show this wasn’t being done just in large cities,
he called attention to a small group of Black
Forest Germans in a community of Little Britain
where they were encouraged to come out and
give public expression to their folk dances and
their folk music.

When asked why the railroads should under-‘
take this extraordinary work with people, the
very interesting answer was given that in large
part the railroads of Canada are Canada; that
is to say, the unification of this vast territory
depends upon the railroad, and the railroad, in
turn, depends upon the organic unity of the Cana-
dian pe0ple, and this work certainly furthers that
purpose.

Then followed Mr. Hemmerly’s talk on recre—

ation in a small town, of Salisbury, Connecticut,

of 2,500 p0pulation. Five villages cooperate in
a recreation program. He spoke of the great
need of leadership and for a good program, and
especially for the games that will attract the
country people to the village exhibits and bring
together a large number of peo-
ple. He told how the teachers
in the schools are cooperating
and called attention to the fact
that physical education in the
schools must supplement the
community program. Pageants
are planned and a great variety
of activities outlined on printed
sheets distributed to the groups.

Then Mr. L. F. Kinney, of
Kingston, Rhode Island, told
of his work, the work of the
4-H Club, the Y.M.C.A., reach—
ing boys and girls of farms.
He spoke of the need of bring—
ing in specialists from outside
to train leaders. As it is, rec-
reation has to be sandwiched
into the program of extension
service because, being paid for

not sufficient public sympathy
with it. So now there is given in their meet-
ings, on home economics and other agricultural
subjects, an hour to play leadership.

Mr. Kinney spoke of the need of breaking
down the distinction between the 'city boys and
country boys in regard to their social activity

 

Enjoyment of the out-of-doors—
out of taxes, there is perhaps real recreatlon for everyone!

and behavior, whereupon Dr. C. B. Smith, of
the United States Department of Agriculture,
emphasized the great need for social training of
country children and also for nature study among
them. He suggested that for supplying the train-
ing necessary state superintendents of instruction
should put four or five recreation specialists
into the state for training teachers in play.

In connection with this it was decided in Wis-
consin that the state supply its part of the funds
for musical supervisors in schools, and it was
mentioned that similar arrangements were being
made in New York and other states. In Quebec
extensive music programs are carried on in both
types of schools. There is need for developing
in the schools a hunger for a daily consumption
of music, from childhood up. Another illustra-
tion was given in another field, of a country town‘
in Canada where a community recreation club,
representing all groups, was formed, and the
funds allocated to the groups as needed.

\Vhere community buildings do exist in small
communities there is usually a very inadequate
use of them. In some states they have been al-
lowed even to fall into decay. Mention was
made of the study undertaken
by the National Recreation As-
sociation of these buildings.

The major problems of the
group were leadership, finance,
cooperation of the schools,
training of leaders and, above
all, the stress that must be put
upon spontaneous activities and
the complete use of equipment.

Carrying Over Recreation Training
from Schools to Community

BY C. L. GLENN

Director, Ditu'sion of Physical Edu-
cation: and Athletics, Board of Edn-
cation, Lo: Angela’s, California

HE subject of our section
Tis a very pertinent one in

view of the changes in
trends of education. What are
these changes? Are recreation
leaders familiar with them and
what are they doing about it?

The speaker who opened the discussion, Charles
H. Hunt of Long Beach, California, asserted
that recreation workers are on the wrong foot
when they say that schools are not advancing
recreationally and that they fail to cooperate with

S UMMARI E5 505

outside recreation programs.He was sur'ei‘the
reverse was more nearly true and that recreation
workers all too often are blind to the school’s
development in art, music, physical education,
handcraft, and other leisure time interests, and
are not, consequently, adapting their own pro-
grams accordingly.

There seemed to be considerable agreement in
the group with this opinion. It was also felt
that there are in the type of subjects mentioned
great potential carry-over values and that whether
these values will be realized will depend largely
upon the way in which they are taught. On the
other hand, all too often recreation workers will
overstress in their programs those types of activ-
ities'even among young children which cannot be
indulged in later on in adult years; for example,
basketball, football and other major sports.

It was brought out that the old type of edu-
cators were too academically inclined and did not
have in mind the things that were of value rec-
reationally. There are many such in our schools
and wherever this is the case, recreation leaders
have an opportunity to stimulate thinking in the
other and better direction and to open the eyes
of the people to the tremendous importance of
our modern leisure _time situation and its im-
plications for education. Whenever school pro-
grams are enriched, recreation agencies should
be their most ardent backers especially against
critics who might still be inclined to dub them
“frills and folderols.”

Definite cooperation between recreation work-
ers and educators in the community was an im-
portant point discussed and agreed upon. Each
should know the other’s program and objectives
to the end that efforts may be coordinated.

Mr. Zanzig brought up an interesting point
about music in the schools. He had praise for

the great things done in schools so far as in- .

struction is concerned in both vocal and instru-
mental music, but he felt that in too many places
overemphasis was being placed upon “bigness”—
big orchestras, .big glee clubs, big brass bands,
and the use of big instruments such as the tuba.
He made the point that only a small percentage
of these instruments are ever made use of in
home activities. Recreation workers, he felt,
could perhaps suggest to school people the ad-
visability of not emphasizing just large instru-
ments and large groups, but the homelier instru-
ments and the smaller groups. Mr. Zanzig also
brought out the fact that so far as music is con-
cerned there are thousands of people who have

learned to play instruments which they will not
in all probability use later. Finally, he suggested
that for those who are trained in orchestras,
bands and choruses during school days there
ought to be plenty of opportunity for continuance
in community music organizations. At present
in most cities and towns such opportunities are
not yet plentiful enough. It is here that recrea-
tion agencies can do a great service and thus
conserve rich, human assets.

Quite a discussion arose on this point: In
places where schools conduct a recreation pro—
gram, who should assume the responsibility of
direction? Shall it be a person who has other
school reSponsibilities or one who has no other
duties? We were quite surprised that so many
thought it depended largely upon the plan of
organization and the quality of personnel in the

staff.

The Chairman, Eugene T. Lies of the N.R.A.,
informed the group of the study now being car-
ried on by the National Recreation Association
on the subject of the relationship of our public
schools to the problem of the recreational use of
leisure, which, it is expected, will be of help to
the schools, to the recreation field, and to other
agencies interested in school progress.

Revenue Producing Facilities in Park and
Recreation Systems

BY CHARLES E. REED

N ational Recreation Association

HE group considered the problem of rev-

enue producing facilities from two stand-

points. First, they considered those factors
that have made this an important subject; sec-
ondly, they discussed some of the basic principles
that should guide departments in determining
what activities should be charged for and which
should be provided without charge.

1. Why has the charging of fees for Public
Recreation Facilities and Activities become a live
and perplexing topic?

The rapid acquisition in recent years of recrea-
tion facilities, and the annual expenditure for
their maintenance and operation, represent an in-
vestment of public funds amounting to many mil-
lions of dollars. Because of the recognized bene-
fits resulting from these facilities and activities,
municipalities everywhere are confronted with an
increasing popular demand for more opportuni-
ties of this nature. The increasing margin of
spare time at the disposal of all classes of our

506 SUMMARIES

population accentuates this demand
for provisions whereby self-ex-
pression and human satisfaction
may be realized.

Simultaneously, a more con-
scious interest has been develop-
ing among governmental agencies
and public officials to ascertain just
what is happening in this relative-
ly new held of public service,
where the movement is leading and
what the returns are on the in-
vestment. Just now tax-sup-
ported recreation services are defi-
nitely affected by the national de-
mand for tax reduction and for
economical administration of all
governmental departments. Hence
proposals to charge for the use of
certain facilities and for participa-
tion in various activities provided
by park, school and public recrea-
tion departments, appeal more
readily to the public mind.

The discussion centered primar-
ily on charges for adults, and two
phases of adult charges received
major consideration. (1) the
basis for charging adults; (2) the extent to which
cost of operation and maintenance, improvements,
and capital outlays should be met through the rev-
enue produced by charging.

The attempts to answer these questions came
from the discussion leaders, with others partici-
pating, and from a special study of fees and
charges which the National Recreation Associa-
tion has just concluded, the findings of which
were°presented to this section meeting.

The discussion brought forward certain types
of recreation services for which fees may be con-
sidered: (a) Those requiring large capital ex—
penditures and operating and maintenance e:-
penses; e. g., golf courses, swimming pools,
camps. (b) Special services or conveniences in-
volving extra expense for equipment or leader-
ship, such as bathing suits, towels, lockers,
checking accommodations, instruction in various
kinds of classes; e.g., dancing, music, dramatic
productions, handcraft, gymnastics, and others.
(c) Those services involving the use of materials
ultimately retained by participants: hanclcraft
projects, garments or decorative articles for the
home. such as lamp shades, leather articles. (d)
FaCillii('S and services used by non—residents:

 

As the drama program deveIOps on playgrounds
out-of-door festivals and pageants multiply.

golf, tennis, swimming, because (1) they contrib-
ute nothing in tax funds to support; (2) they
crowd out locals, and (3) they delay acquisition
of own facilities.

\Vith respect to charging for recreation serv-
ices to children, there seems to be general agree-
ment that children under fourteen years of age
should be exempt from fees. If charges are
considered advisable for the use of supplies, ma-
terials or equipment, they should be on the basis
of cost to the department, especially where hand-
craft projects are retained.

Free periods or reduced rates should be ar-
ranged for children when charges are regularly
made. This applies to admissions, suits, towels,
lockers, pools. There should, it was felt, be
lower rates or free periods for swimming pools,
tennis, golf.

There was considerable discussion of the extent
to which a department should try to build up
surpluses by charging. One city, for example,
thought a fee on tennis courts was justified to
the extent of providing a surplus for construc-
tion of additional courts, possibly before applying
any of the revenue to operation and maintenance
costs. Another city, referring to revenue from

SUMMARIES 507

golf, contended that in all cases the revenue should
hrst be applied to operating expenses. The. dis-
cussion and the general findings of the special
study seem to indicate that charges designed to
provide more than the cost of operation and main-
tenance may-tend to defeat the fundamental ob—
jectives of the best possible recreation for each
individual and' for the community as a whole.
The principle that capital expenditures for land,
permanent construction and equipment should be
provided from public funds is widely accepted.

Additional questions of importance were pro—
jected, particularly, from the national study which
embodies the practice and experience of 175
municipal departments, including
those in ten Canadian cities. For
example, the goodly number of ad-
vocates of free recreation services
point to specific disadvantages of
charging, as they see them. They
say, first, that charging is double
taxation; second, that charging
tends to develop commercial stand-
ards; third, that fees restrict par-
ticipation; and fourth, that public
recreation is so fundamentally im-
portant to normal development it
should be on the same free basis
as public education.

Other pertinent and puzzling
questions arise: (a) Should ad-
n1ission fees to public recreation
functions be authorized? (b)
What should be the attitude of ad-
ministering recreation bodies or
departments toward collections at
athletic contests? (c) Should
amusement devices of the commer—
cial type be operated on public
park and recreation areas, using
public facilities for money—making
purposes? (d) What relation does
charging have to liability for acci-
dents to those using public recrea-
tion facilities?

Thus it was evident from the
discussion and the information
submitted at the section meeting
that the problem of charging is
not a question either of free ser-
vice throughout or of fees on the
basis of all the traffic will bear.
From the standpoint of the recrea-
tion movement as a whole, it is

not that simple a proposition. As a general work-
ing basis, however, all are in agreement, no doubt,
that the objective in both freeland charge service
should be to provide the best possible recreation
for each individual and for the community as a
whole, in adequate variety and amount. F urther-
more, that neighborhood needs and living condi-
tions offthosenfor whom such service is intended,
are constant considerations of paramount impor-
tance. __

Nora—The study outlined by Mr. Reed is to
be made available under the title “Charges for
Community Recreation Facilities and Activities
of Public Park, Recreation and School. Systems.

Reports indicate that cities everywhere are taking advan-
tage of every opportunity offered by the “weather man.”

 

Courtesy Minneapolis Board of Park Commissioners

508 SUMMARIES

 

l
l
r
l
r
l
l
l
l

-

Courtesy Amelia Dunne Hoakway School, Chicago, and the Chicago School: Journal

Drama Problems in Recreation Programs
BY JOSEPHINE BLACKSTOCK,

Oak Park, Illinois

UR meeting proved a challenging one,
0 drawing a large crowd and disclosing a
wealth of new material.

Pointing to a future in playground drama that
had stirring meaning, such thrilling new high-
lights were presented as Bloomfield. New Jersey’s
outdoor theater converted from a dump, a model
of cooperative effort in which the playground
staff, the National Recreation Association and
the local town engineer joined hands.

The Montreal Drama League, so wisely and so
thoroughly threaded into the dramatic warp and
woof of the community through an intensive sur-
vey and a linking up with other agencies such as
the settlements, the Y. M. C. A. and the Y. W.
C. A., finally reached a decision to put facilities
for drama into every new playground building.

Westchester County’s remarkable achievement
of a Drama Association included twenty-six
groups of players giving one-act tournaments
<lri'w volunteer directors from Yale and Harvard
staffs for round table discussions on play produc-
tion problems, exchanged players, lent costumes

Through pet shows and story hours playgrounds
help to foster the child’s love of animals.

and properties, and conducted a summer school of
the theater under the direction of a staff member
at Cambridge.

The Madison Square Boys’ Club had a pro-
gram of a notable series of one-act and three-act
plays, often coached without payment by Broad-
way professionals, a challenge to the possibilities
of drama for the boy. Lakewood, Ohio, and
Memphis, Tennessee, conducted well organized
programs of community-wide dramatics.

The presenting of this material resulted in
some vivid and challenging discussions. The
value of dramatization of stories in the play-
ground program, as opposed to the finished play,
drew sharply divergent convictions. One speaker
not in favor of such dramatization stated that the
child should have time to live over the stories
quietly in his own imagination without the imme-
diate reaction: “\Vhat part shall I play in it?”
However, the sense of the group seemed to be
that this form of elementary dramatics was valu-
able in the education of the small child.

Should the child under the age of ten be allowed
to take part in plays presented before the public?

SUMMARIES 509

Here again the opinion was divided, but the
majority seemed to favor allowing the child this
early participation.

The fact that many playground systems are
putting in one—act play tournaments in their
younger children’s program brought out the ques-
tion of the value of these tournaments. The vote
taken showed a large majority of the group op—
posed to the idea. The sentiment seemed to be
that the competition involved was detrimental to
the child as yet not emotionally stable. The Opin-
ion was advanced that if tournaments were held
only competent people for judges, who were ade-
quately paid, should be used.

The question of whether the playground system
With a small budget should permit the only partly
trained play leader to coach
plays, or wait until a drama

The discussions at Toronto were only a I

group feel that the good effects on the child offset
the unfavorable ones.

“Does the proximity of a large city with the
professional plays it offers preclude a wide in—
terest in amateur drama ?” Apparently not, if the
coach is competent, the plays attractive, the per-
formances well advertised. However, the prob-
lem of interesting adults in drama appeared from
the discussion to be a much more difficult one than
that of reaching the children. Here again a sur-
vey of existing club, church and school drama, to
avoid overlapping, seemed to be the solution.

Winter Sports
BY ALBERT B. KELLOGG,
Superintendent of Schools, Claremont, New Hampshire

HE discussion at our
section covered those
seasonal recreation ac-

instructor could be secured,
drew long and heated discus-
sion. Some present were in
favor of drama purely for
the fun aspect, and therefore
would turn over the program
to the play leader. Others
adhered to the theory that
acting is the most difficult
and challenging art in the
world and should never be
left to anyone but the trained

part of the program. Congress members
will long remember the gracious hospi-
tality of our Canadian friends—the tea
given by the Premier of Ontario: the trips
about the city; the singing of the Men-
delssohn choir; the pageant presented by
the employees of Eaton Company; the
dancing of the Ukrainian group from
Hamilton: the presentation by the Mayor
of Kitchener of ma le leaf plaques
painted by the school3 children of that
city. and other courtesies‘too numerous
to mention which made the Congress at
Toronto so memorable a one.

tivities involving the use of
ice and snow, and followed
three lines of thought—
namely, the physical need for
hardening the body by ex-
posing it, properly clothed, to
cold air and winter sunshine;
the activities that could be
included in the program, and '
ways and means for their
successful administration.

director.

The sense of the meeting
seemed to be that as far as possible play leaders
should be secured with at least some elementary
training in drama, and that in order to reach a
large group, rather than a small one, they should
be used to start the children in plays, filling in,
so far as possible, for the drama director.

The important question of whether the boy
should be allowed to start his education in drama
With second rate farces and comedies which never—
theless appeal to his natural interests and then
gradually led to an appreciation of better plays,
was laid before the group. One speaker held
that just as playing the ukulele or a mouth organ
leads to an interest in higher forms of music, so
should these lower forms of drama. There the
group seemed about evenly divided as to the ad-
visability of this method.

“Do the large pageants given as a climax to
the summer activities effectively sell the program
to the public but often exploit the child and over-
work the play leaders?” Here there was diver-
gence of feeling, but clearly the majority of the

It was stated that whereas
the science of medicine is
conquering the bacterial enemies of mankind,
there is a distinct loss in ability to make the vas-
ometer adjustments necessary for health, and the
best way to raise the efficiency is to go out into
the cold air occasionally. To prevent a weaken—
ing effect from the hothouse environment in
which we are wont to hibernate, we might get out
the old toboggan and enjoy the experience of
“whiz and then walk back a “mile.” The idea
was presented that if there is to be any retrench-
ment of the recreation program the cut should be
from summer rather than winter activities. The
low per capita cost of winter sports as well as
their many advantages was advanced in support
of this thesis. _

In determining what sports shall be included in
the program of communities favored by freezing
temperatures and snowfalls, a study of the local
topography should be made. Two general prin—
ciples were advanced in connection with the choice
of 'sites—one, that natural settings with motor
transportation be utilized, thus avoiding the ex-

510 SUMMARIES

pense of remaking nature; the other, that slides
and skating rinks be arranged at the central play-
ground. Each community should settle its own
particular problem with both ideas in mind. The
distance from the center of population of the nat-
ural hill or pond may be condemned under the law
of diminishing returns, for as the distance in-
creases accessibility decreases, and the project may
prove to be only a sport center for a favored few
rather than a place of winter recreation for the
community.

Where deep water is used for skating the
strength and condition of the ice should be care—
fully tested each day. Snow must be entirely
removed from such skating places as its weight
when piled along runways or the sides of a maze
will cause the ice to sink. Where ice is to be
made on a level field, operations can begin as
soon as the ground is well frozen. Ample space
for snow diSposal should be made. Such rinks
may have the advantage of the setting up side-
by-side of a hockey rink, one for speed skating
and one for general or fancy skating. Minne-
apolis reported such a combination. Problems of
illumination, the shelter house for warmth and
the checking of shoes and the location of refresh-
ment concessions may be simplified by such an
arrangement.

A skating place at Newton, Massachusetts, was
formed by building a two foot dike along a
stream. The water was then raised by means of
a dam already existing and the meadow was cov-
ered. The openings in the dike were closed and
the stream again lowered leaving a thirty acre
pond trapped. There would be difficulty in re-
newing the ice here.

The preparation of a ski jump requires a nat-
ural setting, for skiing is primarily a sport for
rolling or hilly country. Bob—sled runs and
tobogganing are simplified by a hill, although very
successful slides for children and even for adults
may be built on level ground. These latter can
be purchased _or made up locally. Glens Falls,
New York, reported the cooperation of the local
manual training teacher and his pupils in build-
ing an ample slide on plans drawn by the en—
gineering department of the Delaware and Hud-
son Railway. Detailed plans for toboggan slides,
ski jumps, rinks, field houses and such can be
found among the publications of the National
Recreation Association.

Having determined what activities should be
given place on our program, the arrival of cold
weather marks the beginning of a battle of wits

with the weather man to keep the facilities in op—
erating condition. A good barometer and ther-
mometer will help, but at times all signs will fail,
and hence there will be less heartache if an
opportunist and temporary program is used. Such
events as weekly competitions for groups divided
by height, with ribbons or an award at the close
of the season to the high gross winners, are popu-
lar. The setting aside of definite periods for the
use of rinks by special groups, such as Boy Scout
troops, Buddy Clubs, women’s groups and others,
is wise, the rink director even arranging the play
details for the visitors. Rink discipline should
be fully enforced and politeness and consideration
demanded. A skating police officer is particularly
useful in this connection. Portable music equip-
ment adds to the attractiveness of skating. “Old
timers” nights and masquerades are found to be
helps in extending the use of the facilities. In the
operation of slides there should always be a starter
and when there are large crowds, assistants to help
sliders out of the runways and to control the
numbers going onto the tower will be needed.

Some form of festival seems naturally to come
in the course of the season. The term winter
“carnival” did not appeal to some of the delegates
in view of the commercialized set up so often
found operating under this name where the hotels,
press and other agencies cooperate to capitalize
on the children’s play. Pageantry, competitions,
fireworks and the rest are valuable experiences.
There must be care in the planning to insure the
desired results. And certainly the values to the
children will be greatest when the period of prep-
aration and training extends throughout the sea-
son. The festival week may include all kinds of
competitions on skates, snowshoes, skis, dog sled
races, ski joring, wood chopping contests, tugs-
of-war in the snow, exhibits of snow sculpturing,
and similar activities.

Experiences from the Chicago playgrounds
were quoted showing how the sculpturing idea
began when the children modeled with their hands
various small animals and snow figures. Then
tools were brought in—chisels, trowels, knives
and rasps which were found to give a fine hair
effect. Next a little girl picked up her snow dog
and carried it away, and the next development
was a parade of ice figures. Architectural forms
followed, and by use of water color dyes beautiful
stained glass effects were evolved. Colors were
then applied to the figures. A group representing
an intervarsity basketball game attracted much at-
tention by the familiar colors of their uniforms.

SUMMARIES 511

The painting of landscapes on snow ice by the
use of oils developed as a fine medium of expres-
sion. Simple ice block towers or piles with col-
ored electric lights glowing within were found to
give beautiful effects on the evening landscape.
The success of the program will depend on the
common sense and energy of the director. We
have the materials at hand for this fine recreation.
Here in Canada it is ice skating; in Newton it is
mass skating; in another town right facilities

bring skiing to the front. In your town what will
it be?

Trends in Preschool Child Play Administration
BY CHRISTINE HEINIG,

Director of Guidance Nursery, Child Development
Institute, Teachers College, Columbia University

HE group which met to discuss trends in
preschool child play administration was not

unique in mixing philosophical thinking with
the discussion of practical problems.

Our chairman started us off with a challenge
in regard to the terminology we were using in
setting play apart from life as a special and differ—
entiated activity implying that its opposite,
“work,” must exist separately. The pertinent
bearing of this quibble over terms had to do with
the fact that for the preschool child there is no
such difference in his activity. He is constantly
trying to get, and is frequently getting, satisfac-
tion from the thing being done.

For the preschool child training should mean
that the child learns how to set a goal and then
carry on to achieve it. Three trends are inherent
in this operation. The first is concentration. The
second, diversity of interest. The third, prepara—
tion for growth and maturity.

Attention to early education is important; in
fact it was felt by some in the group that every
two—year—old child ought to be, and soon will be,
under a school roof for part of the day at least.
Here, it is hoped, he will get that training that
will make him able to live cooperatively with his
fellows.

The question was raised, “How many children
under school age are there, and what is being done

about them by the community, with public funds
and tax money?”

The 1930 White
House Confer-
ence report states
that seven pe r
cent of the total

The requests which have reached us for information regarding
recreation and unemployment have made it imperative for us
to publish in this issue of "Recreation" the material available on
the subiect. It has not been possible. therefore, to present in this
number all of the Congress proceedings. Other addresses and
discussions will appear in the January issue.

population are children of six years of age and
under. One group member stated that forty-
seven per cent of the children in his town were
of preschool age, and yet for six years of those
children’s lives no tax money is being spent on
them. The majority of children of other age
groups go to school for part of the day and get
training there, but the preschool child, except for
three hours of the day when he eats and sleeps, is
“at large.”

Rec0gnizing the importance of the preschool
age, the group was unanimous in feeling that rec—
reation centers had done little or nothing for the
child under six. It was stated by one recreation
worker that recreation centers had in general a
well planned program for the child of six to
eight, but the preschool and preadolescent groups
had been neglected.

Two reasons were given for this apparent
neglect of the preschool child. First, we haven’t
thought of the preschool child in the past; and
second, the preschool child has not forced his
needs, but rather has been pushed away from
recreation playgrounds by lack of protection from
the rougher play and behavior of the older chil-
dren.

The need for play space restricted to the use
of children of this age is the first important
necessity. One center in New Jersey has a Tot
Lot, equipped with small sized equipment suitable
for use of the young child. It was considered pos-
sible to fence off or screen off with planting, a
section of playground for the use of the young
children. One discussion member emphasized the
point that with protection and a welcome guar—
anteed, children of six and under would make
use of the playground.

Another suggestion made to solve the problem
of play space was that of schedule. The best
play hours for toddlers are in the mornings, and
it should be possible to arrange a schedule that
would provide certain hours for the young chil-
dren.

The second great need presented was in regard
to equipment. Recreation centers having ample
space have not equipped that space. It is a chal-
lenge to be met by all of us. Manufactured mate-
rial is not adequately made to fill the need of the
preschool child; it
is not designed
with proper con-
sideration to the
length of his
reach, how high

512 SUMMARIES

he can climb; the things he wants to do with
them are often very different from what the
manufacturers planned. When material is manu-
factured for the preschool child, it is generally
pretty flimsy. The recreation centers spend money
on it the first year and in two years there is noth-
ing left of it. It is possible to have carpenter-
made equipment that is very satisfactory since the
equipment necessary is quite informal. Ladders,
boards, packing boxes—any manipulative mate—
rials with which the children can experiment will
do. A great deal of attention should be given
to the proper use of the equipment, that a mis-
use of equipment, more than its misfit, might pre-
vent the equipment from properly lending itself
to the creative ideas and desires of the child.

The third great need is that of securing trained
leadership. The worker who can plan activities
for this age child and see to it that the child got
something out of it must be especially qualified
from the standpoint of training and personality.
The problem of the high cost of such a worker
was brought up, but the question was left open.
One city is solving the problem for children five
to six years of age by having the recreation cen-
ter offer space and schools to supply well trained
teachers. In a few instances teachers trained in
child development have been secured.

The question was raised concerning the need
and importance of helping parents with the prob-
lems of the children. It was felt that some rec-
reation groups are attempting this parent educa—
tion through group or individual work with them.

Summing up the discussion, it was generally
felt that this age child depend a good deal upon
an understanding of the psychological back-
ground, upon training that is suitable, training
that is expert and capable of handling children
of this age. Such training and individual de—
veIOpment require trained leadership, which is
considered expensive, but several of the centers
have been successful in budgeting their money
so as to get properly trained people.

I should like to add that if this leader is well
trained for preschool child training, she certainly
ought to be able to fit in with the recreation pro-
gram in other of its aspects. '

It was also suggested that perhaps a certain
amount of superficial training could be given to
people who have already been trained in the prin-
ciples of preschool child training to bridge over
the gap until we have the budgets necessary to
secure properly trained people.

As a whole, these two points were made; that

something should be done for the child of six or
under in recreation centers and that proper rec-
reation planning must consider them and provide
the necessary protection, space, equipment, and
leadership.

Joseph Lee: I want to suggest one thing.
What the child wants and needs is the old-fash-
ioned slide, the best kind being merely a board
tipped on one end of a box, the kind you can all
have in your backyards and in your playgrounds
if you are not too proud. The next best thing
is a box with sand in it big enough for the child
to get into it and work. It is better not to have
it on a table, for the child likes to sit in the sun.
He likes to have room in which to work, in which
to play house so the box should be deep enough.
Do not use sand so fine that it will not stand up
when you want to mold it.

The child likes to build up. He likes to play
where there is rubbish of all kinds. A bank on
which to roll down is good. Then, too, you know
children are in the balancing business and the
thing my children used was a piece of board be-
cause it was hard to walk along. Children like
to roll down a bank; they want to run down cellar
doors or slide down them. Any slide they can
walk up or down is all right. Preferably there
should be shade trees where the mothers can sit
without roasting in the sun near the children.

As to trained leaders, why not get the kinder-
garten teachers in their off time? They can come
to the playground in the summer. The kinder-
garten teacher is trained in the teachings of the
greatest genius of child life. Some of you may
say that the kindergarten is obsolete, but if so
childhood is obsolete. The kindergarten is some-
thing no one understands except the teachers who
have been through it, and we have all those peo-
ple trained now. Why not use them?

There are all kinds of apparatus, but just put
anything in the playground and the young child
will use it.

What Physical Education Can Do To Train Children
For a More Adequate Recreation Life

BY JOHN BROWN, JR., MD.
The National Council of the YJM.C.A.’:, New York City

HERE were approximately 200 in our
T group; standing room was at a premium,

and every minute of the time was 'spent in
very lively participation, both on the part of the
discussion leaders and those who discussed the
topic from the floor. '

SUMMARIES 5173

One speaker stated he considered this topic
the most important on the entire program,of the
Congress. Judging from the way those who were
present participated, many others felt that it was
one of the most important t0pics to be considered
in a gathering like this. I personally believe it
is really at the heart of the physical education
and the recreational problem.

If physical education can make its maximum
contribution in childhood, in order that in after
'life the individual may live most completely, only
then will physical education as such, and recrea—
tion in the community, hnd its complete fulfill-
ment.

The heart of the matter was stated rather con-
cisely by one Speaker when he framed this. ques-
tion: “What is physical education now doing,
and what more can it do, to help children live
more completely after they leave school?

Now, a great many practical suggestions were
offered. Many problems were stated, and with-
out seeking to amplify each of these, I am going
to just cite them as they came up in the various
presentations. Only in one instance was an ex-
pression of the entire group asked for by the
Chairman, and that was on the point as to
whether or not those present felt that one not
professionally trained could successfully admin-
ister a program of physical education designed
to make the largest contribution to the after rec-
reational life of the individual. The consensus
of opinion of the great majority of those present
was that only an adequately professionally trained
person could administer physical education and
recreation, and undertake such a great reSponsi-
bility, with any hope of success.

There were one or two who cited instances of
individuals who had not received professional
training, but who were trained in liberal arts and
other courses, who were_very successful leaders,
but I should say the hrst point in time and im-
portance was this matter of need for profes-
sionally trained teachers of physical education
and recreation.

Along that same line there was expressed a
need for a scientifically constructed course in
physical education as a basis for the study of
those undergoing this physical training. Inci-
dentally, one of the speakers made the point that
in such training of professional workers the pres-
ent emphasis is on training for the city, the larger
city school and community, and that more and
more account must be taken of the needs of the
rural school and the rural community.

This very important question was. raised with
referenceeto the curriculum, not in teacher train“—
ing, but in the physical education activities:
Would it be desirable to do away with unsound
discrimination in the present unsatisfactory clas-
sification of- so-called major and minor sports?
And, instead of considering them of major and
minor claSSification, consider them all as identical

sports and stress those which have greatest carry-
over value in after life?

The elimination of awards as false stimuli was
a point raised as a problem. The need of greater
freedom on the part of children to select their
own activities from a far wider ranger in a more
diversified program was another point.

Greater emphasis upon the teaching of the ele—
mentary skills, particularly in the lower grades,
was also urged. As an aid to this, the desirability
was mentioned of dissecting games into their ele-
mentary units for deve10ping these skills, thereby
predisposing children to more active participation
in games to greater pleasure and more profit.

One of the speakers cited an instance in which
he watched for thirty-five minutes a group of
boys playing soccer. During this time only six
of the participants had actual contact with the ball
by kicking it. The others had not learned how
to kick and those who were playing were careful
to see that the ball didn’t go to those who didn’t
know how to kick! We see that same thing in
tennis and in other games. The ones who are
on the teams give the ball to the ones who can
handle it, and so time and again in the discussion
this point came Up—and I think if we get no
more out of this section than this, it will have
been worth while—that it is while we are dealing
with the children in the lower grades we must
see to it that they get sufficient instruction. This
involves time allotment, still another point; time
for practice in participation in the elementary
segments of what go to make up the more com-
plicated games so they will require more skill and
proficiency and have satisfaction and joy in
achievement, and then when they go out to play
on the teams, they will do so with equal facility
and pleasure.

Because of this, there is equal need for the
classroom teacher to be thoroughly trained, not
in all the ramifications of physical education as
such, but in all that is essential in order for her
to be a good classroom teacher for such recrea-
tional and educational activities as the pupils
under her charge should have who are in her
hands; because she has the first contact and be-

514 SUMMARIES

cause she has the pupils while they are still
young, her contact, in the opinion of the group,
is the most important.

Increasing the functioning, and developing the
interests of those who do not choose to run, is
more in order that we may make them want to
run, and run with satisfaction and success. A lot
of people don’t play and don’t have fun in recrea-
tion just because they are too lazy. No one is
made to want to change their minds on that
point.

We must magnify in the minds of the grad-
uate schools the importance of the function of
physical education in relation to the grades, so
this field of service will have greater appeal to
the best graduates. Too often these best gradu-
ates are attracted only by the lure of the high
school and the college field, whereas the grades
represent the fields of larger potential, and more
lasting influence in affecting the later life of the
child.

The last point I shall make is that there is
need for more co—ed participation in education,
in physical education, if we are going to help
the community director in bringing the young
people together for enjoyment in all sorts of
activities. This means a majoring upon types of
activities in which boys and young girls can play,
and there are lots of them if you only think
about it.

There is a need for greater coordination and
active cooperation between those administering
the program of physical education in the schools
and those in charge of municipal recreation, and
a need of an interchange of facilities.

joseph Lee: We ought to be sure, as Dr
Brown has pointed out, that children acquire the
skills which are going to give them a happy life
when they grow up. We must be careful, how-
ever, that we don’t prevent their having any
life at all while they. are growing up. And you
can find games which will at the same time let
children live now and will also contribute to their
skill later on. I have seen cases of children taken
out of school, one of them a child of six, because
the parents thought he should learn the rudiments
of football. In the particular case of the child
of six, the parents were anxious that he should
be a quarterback ten years afterward.

Living now is the great principle Dewey taught
us about education. It is life now, not life at
some other time, and if we put the child in train-
ing for this later period, he runs the risk of
never getting any life at all. When the modern

boy gets through with his French lesson, his music
lesson, his drama lesson and the learning of all
that he should know at some future time, there
is little chance for that boy to live in the present;
and present life is more important.

Recreation in Religious Groups

Bv LYNN ROIIRBOUGH

Director, Social Recreation Union

E were undecided in our session whether
W our subject should be “Recreation in

Religious Groups” or “Religion in Rec-
reation Groups.” 50 we shall have to decide as
we go along which it was we discussed.

Our discussion gave ample proof that religious
groups are taking a profound interest in recre-
ation. Eighty per cent of those present were
primarily concerned with religious groups; twenty
per cent were municipal. Therefore, any criticism
was self-administered. Agencies represented were
Knights of Columbus, Young People’s Societies,
Young Men’s and Young \Vomen’s Christian As-
sociations and churches, both urban and rural.

Our discussions fell into three groups: (1) Ob-
jections and goals; (2) Problems of leadership;
(3) Programs and activities.

The greatest emphasis was on objectives. The
first objective is that religious groups must con-
stantly emphasize the essential unity of a man’s
life; that no longer was there a divorce between
prayer and play. The question whether the re-
ligious life could be complete without recreational
elements was discussed. You will remember it
has been said that the greatest recreation is a re-
ligious experience. so perhaps recreation workers
are awake to that fact.

The second objective is the primacy of the
individual person. It was agreed that wherever
the institution started to build up itself there was
a loss in values all the way around, and that we
should keep constantly in mind that the recreation
program is for the good of the individual human
being, not the institution. No longer dare we
use play as bait, or as a fly-paper to catch people
for religious purposes. \Ve must aim to feed the
normal hunger for play in order that the individ-
ual may share a rich, well-rounded experience.
When a desire to serve an individual need replaces
a selfish institutional motive, a fine loyalty grows
up as a by-product.

The third objective is to discover latent interests
and develop new talents. The question was raised
whether the church should try to put on a com-

SUMMARIES 515

plete program of its own. The average church
spreads itself out so thin that it makes no im-
pression on the community. Churches should avoid
the temptation to duplicate or parallel an already
popular activity, but they should explore new
areas and meet neglected needs. It is not desir-
able that the church enter a competing program,
but.it should become a pioneer in new lines.

A fourth objective is the responsibility of the
church to sharpen up ideals and standards of com-
munity recreation. Much church recreation is not
of as good a standard, as the public variety. It
was felt that it was best to practice fine sports-
manship and then extend the example, and it was
believed in regard to church programs that imme-
diate expediency did not justify low standards in
the hope of reaching a future ideal.

A fifth ob-
jective is to
help develop in
this age of dis-
integration, a
g r o u p c o n-
sciousness and
—-a euphonic
t e r m s 0 m e-
times used—
a “community
unity,” a group
relationship to
r e p l a c e the
present casual
one, and there-
by reintegrate
the loose ends
of society.

By way of
summary w e
might say that
t h e a primary
job of a re-
ligious institution is religious; that it is useless to
sugar-coat play; that to do'so is invariably a Hop.
The youth who are brought to church to play
basketball do not stick. It was thought that when
youth came to church to play basketball or volley-
ball it was primarily for that purpose, to play
what they are interested in at the moment, and
that suitable places should be provided for such
play.

The second center of interest was leadership.
The leader stands at the very heart of recreation.
Hundreds of fine church plants are unused for
lack of leadership, in the midst of a crying need.

Courtesy Detroit Recreation Department

 

One highly desirable thing about the almost universal collecting cipal
instinct is that it so often drives us into the field of nature.

. The opinion was vigorously expressed that the

untrained leader was not worth a row of pins,
and eloquent testimony was given of the good
returns from an investment in leadership train-
ing. It was therefore agreed that discovering and
training leaders was a vital function of religious
groups.

A brief survey showed that leadership training
was already offered by the following agencies:
International Council of Religious Education
Standard Training Classes; the Y. M. C. A. and
the Y. W. C. A. and the Public Recreation De-
partments.

We had two intensely interesting illustrations of
two training projects that had almost identical
results. First, a church training school con-
ducted by the Wentworth County Y. W. C. A.
in which the
H a m i l t o n
P l a y g round
workers were

trained along
w i t h leaders
f r 0 m 8 2

churches. I n
five years more
than 800 lead-
ers fro 1n a
hundred com-
munities were
given elemen—
tary training in

social recrea-
tion.
T h e second

illustration was
that of Detroit
where a muni—
group

under the lead—

ership of Miss
Viola P. Armstrong, has, over a period of five or
six years, done a job very similar to that of the
Wentworth County Y. W. C. A., training leaders
to do this job. First, Miss Armstrong said, in
describing the development, requests came from
churches for leadership from the Department’s
staff, and this was cheerfully given. Second, a
card index was kept of promising leaders dis-
covered in various church groups, and these people
were trained with the idea of making them key
leaders. Third, when requests came in from 720
churches, making it impossible to meet them all,
the Department offered to train leaders in one of

$10 SUMMARIES

the churches. That was carried on over a period
of twelve, twenty or thirty weeks, with the result
that Miss Armstrong has a corps of 150 well
trained volunteers whom she calls on to direct
parties in any church. And the beautiful thing
is that these volunteers go out and lead services
without any expense. It is purely a voluntary
service.

Now let me suggest that the bread cast upon
the waters comes back to her, for she reports an
increase in good will, open churches, open build-
ings, by her having provided leadership for com-
munity programs.

It was brought out by direct contact, through
a leader from another church, that scores of build-
ings were out of use, and by this method of Miss
Armstrong’s a program can be arranged whereby
through confidence and mutual cooperation pro-
grams can be accom-
plished without com-
petition.

Another matter
for discussion was programs and
activities. First, a program for all
ages must be emphasized, the adult
group being felt to be perhaps the
most needy and neglected. Second,
the question arose as to the value of
highly competitive activities, and
the use of awards. Mr. L. A. Buck-
ley, the chairman, quoted Kilpatrick,
who felt that awards were to rec-
reation what scaffolding was to a
building; it was not finished until
the seaffolding was removed. It
was said that we should transfer in-
terest from winning to play for its
own sake and eventually do away
with the use of awards.

Administrative Problems of the

Individual Playground With Good
Equipment

BY ROBERT E. COADY,

Cincinnati, Ohio

HE discussion dealt with three
points — leadership, programs

and the community in which
the playground is located.

Mr. J. J. Syme of Hamilton,
Canada, said that problems of in-
dividual programs can be greatly
simplified by careful planning.

If famllles would play together more
there would be fewer home problems.

 

I l
Courtesy "Childhood and Character,” National Child IVelfare Association, I ma, New York

First of all, the program conducted on the in-
dividual ground must be of interest. The most
interesting program is the one which develops
skill, and those who take part in the activities
encouraging skill will have more enjoyment in
participation. Mr. Syme also emphasized the
fact that extreme care must be taken in the selec-
tion of the play leader for the individual play-
ground. The qualifications of the play leader and
the characteristics of the neighborhood in which
he is placed must both be taken into consideration.

Francis J. Mahoney, of Somerville, Massachu-
setts, told of the use of junior leaders who are
selected by the playground director. These lead—
ers have been successful in various types of ac-
tivities, particularly in the safety program. Som-
erville uses a number of volunteer leaders who

have been very helpful in carrying out programs.

Mr. Ernst Hermann of Newton,
Massachusetts, pointed out the need for
great care in the selection of playground
directors for the individual playground

I

l'

 

SUMMARIES 5.17

and stressed the .inadvisability of transferring
to other centers workers who are satisfactory
and successful where they are, because of pres-
sure from the outside. The play leader who
understands the temper of his community and
is familiar with the background and tradition of
foreign-born groups in his neighborhood will
know the type of recreation which the‘ neighbor-
hood should have, and there should be no inter-
ference with his program.

The individual playground should have certain
standards which are maintained by the observance
of certain rules rigidly lived up to. These rules
should be enforced. The recreation worker who

insists on the maintenance of standards will have
the respect of his community.

Keep constantly watching for potential leader—
ship, Mr. Hermann urged. In our communities
are many young people of leadership caliber to
whom the playground offers opportunity for train—
ing. Boys who have gained the reputation of be-
ing “no good” can become real assets to the play—
ground and to their community if they are given
responsibility on the playgrounds.

Mr. Harold White, of Mt. Vernon, New York,

stated that the plan most successful in his partic-
ular city involved the,close following of a defi-
nite weekly program by the individual playground
director and a plan of supervisorship which, be-
cause the playgrounds are not a great distance
apart, can be pretty constant. He mentioned the
necessity of keeping the good will of the neighbors
of the playground.

Miss Josephine Blackstock of Oak Park, Illi-
nois, felt that we have considered a little too
much competitive games and too little drama and
handcraft. In Oak Park, drama and handcraft
have become very popular. “You Can Make It”
contests have been carried on for two years.
Many older girls have been reached with recrea-
tional opportunities through the instrumentality
of the women’s clubs who are offering a broad
program. Interest in music is keen, and there
are six orchestras on five playgrounds doing some
fine work.

Mr. G. I. Kern, of Cleveland, Ohio, urged econ-
omy in the care and distribution of equipment.
It is the responsibility of the playground director,
particularly in a period of financial depression, to
see that everything made available in the way of

game supplies and equipment be utilized and con-
served.

Music Trends in RecreationPrograms

BY GLENN GRANT,

Los Angeles, California

HE first part of our program was taken up-
Twith a discussion of the scope and function of

music in recreation programs. In addition to-
the usual emphasis on the social value of music,
attention was given to the integrating and liber-
ating effects on the individual that it may have
under good leadership, to the joy of achievement
that comes from singing or playing well, to the
expression of line feelings and qualities that are
not realized in the ordinary experiences of life.
and to the power of music to enhance the mean—
ing of ideas, occasions and institutions—like
schools, camps and playgrounds—~that might
otherwise be dull affairs. Several examples
showing how music may have these values were
described by various members of the discussion
group.

The second part of the discussion had to do
with musical taste, both with regard to the choice
of music and to the choice of an instrument. The
effect of the radio in raising standards of choice

and of performance was brought out, it being

generally agreed that the proportion of broad-
casts that are now being given to high grade mu-
sic is much larger than in the early days of the
radio. A remarkable thing about this is the fact
that the improvement has evidently been due to,
or has at least paralleled, an increasing interest in
such music among the people. It is not being
imposed by governmental or any other authority.
as in some European countries. This and the
great musical advances being made in many high
schools indicate unprecedented possibilities for-
recreational use of high grade music and musical

skill.

We must not, however, neglect the simpler in»
struments and skills. “What value has the har—
monica ?” was asked. The consensus of opinion
seemed to be that the principal things in regard-
ing any instrument are: First, the quality of ex-
perience that it provides for the individual not
what someone else thinks about it; secondly, the-
quality of the music that can be played on it; and
thirdly, the growth in expressiveness and enjoy—~
ment that it makes possible. It was agreed that
any of the conventional band and orchestra in-
struments and the piano undoubtedly have greater-

. " 'possibilities than the harmonica with respect to
each of the three considerations, especially for

518

adults, and that where interest in them can be
aroused and instruments obtained, recreation
leaders should provide for the playing of such
instruments rather than the harmonica. But these
conditions are often lacking, and many a boy who
has found his way to musical enjoyment through
a harmonica would otherwise have been left musi-
cally mute and indifferent. It must be remem-
bered, too, that tunes as lovely as any in the world
can be played on the harmonica, and that good
playing of part-music in a harmonica band is for
boys and girls as effective a means of gaining
self—reSpect and ability to take happy part in a
social enterprise as can be found, short of sing—
ing in a very good chorus or playing in a good
orchestra or band. We must remember that it is
“short” and becomes shorter as the individual
grows older, while singing or the playing of the
piano or an orchestra instrument may become an
increasingly rich means of expression as he grows
older. Examples were cited of boys who pro-
gressed from the harmonica to one or another of
the best sorts of musical instruments.

Mr. William W. Norton of the Flint (Mich)
Community Music Association gave a summary
of the remarkable work being done by that Asso-
ciation, especially with respect to the carry-over
of school music into community musical activities
of many kinds, including a symphony orchestra
of 103 men and women who play for the love of
it and give three free concerts a year that are
each attended by from 1,500 to 2,000 people. The
assistant superintendent of the Los Angeles Rec-
reation Department told of progress being made
in what for several years has been one of the
most outstanding cities in recreational music. Es-
pecially significant is that department’s provision
of rehearsal places, moral support, and aids in
publicity for many amateur groups that are other-
wise independent. A series of certificates awarded
for progress in harmonica playing is also impor-
tant. Each succeeding certifi-
cate represents a further step
that is tested by the playing of
certain pieces listed on an
achievement card. Mr. Lee F.
Hanmer gave proof from ex-
periences of some war-time
song leaders of the expansibility
of even the lowest musical
tastes. Mr. G. Roy Fenwick of
the Hamilton, Ontario, public
schools gave stimulating testi-
mon y of relations between

CH RIerAsl/U

’1 ‘1 
.‘ 'l
25'"ANNUAL SEAL

 

Help Fight Tuberculosis
Buy Christmas Seals

SUMMARIES

school and community music, and Mr. August
Fischer of the Lansing (Mich.) Recreation De—
partment dealt with the trials and triumphs of pro-
viding summer band concerts.

The discussion group, the largest gathered for
any sectional meeting on music in several years,
closed the session with a unanimous expression
of the increasing importance of participation in
good music of the various kinds as a means of
recreation.

How Can Park Departments Extend Recreation
Service?

BY F. S. MATHEWSON

Union County, New Jersey, Park Commission

T was indicated at this session that the pro-
vision of recreation is playing an increasingly
large part in the formulation of park policies

all over America. The rapid disappearance of
“Keep Off the Grass” signs and the promoting
of organized programs of recreation are primary
factors which are enabling a maximum use to
be gained from public parks. The policy built on
these standards, it was felt, is_the desirable one
to be followed in the future.

Where space permits every known form of
physical activity can be promoted in a public park
without detracting from the beauty of the area,
and in some cases, by means of an organized pro-
gram it is possible even to preserve the planting
in certain sections by concentrating turf destroy-
ing activities to restricted areas.

Making parks and their facilities accessible to
the masses was suggested as another way of
extending recreation service. The plans for the
2,000-acre Marine Park now being constructed
in Brooklyn, New York, call for a subway station
in the center of it with bus service to the picnic
areas, ball fields, tennis courts, and other facilities.

One delegate felt it is the duty of the park
department to release at least
one newspaper story each week
in addition to publishing an-
nouncements and the results of
games in order that the public
may be kept informed of the
work being accomplished and
the opportunities for recreation
provided. On the other hand, a
speaker maintained that it is
not the job of the park depart-
ment to “ballyhoo” its work.
Facilities should be provided

1:”

SUMMARIES 519

and the rest left to the public. It was noted, how-
ever, that this particular executive is doing a very
good job of “ballyhooing” through his program!

The park department should make every pos-
sible effort to comply with the requests which
are constantly being submitted for special ser-
vice. This should be especially true in connec-
tion with furnishing facilities for new games.

The park department should cooperate fully
with local churches and fraternal organizations by
assisting them in conducting their social programs,
planning picnics, outings and leagues. It is safe
to assume that most park bodies having recreation
departments supply this service in a greater or
lesser degree at the present time.

One speaker told how in his city where ex-
tremely low tides are experienced, swimming
pools have been built along the beaches where
the sea water is held when the tide goes out. In
this way a maximum number of hours of bathing
is provided for thousands of people. He also
described wading pools with two levels where chil-
dren under competent instructors are taught to
swim. At times when instructors are not present
the depth of water is reduced to the second level,
thereby eliminating danger.

One delegate placed emphasis on the need of
park departments to secure sites for small neigh-
borhood playgrounds if larger areas are not avail-
able. He urged that every effort be made to ob-
tain areas of at least three acres, though proper-
ties of smaller size should be taken if larger ones
are out of the question.

Organized recreation activities conducted by
park departments help to popularize the whole
park service to the public and to secure more
adequate financial support for the entire park
program.

Even though adequate newspaper publicity is
highly desirable, the demonstration of activities
is by far more productive, leading as it does to
the developing of a sentiment that cannot be
ignored by the finance governing body.

In Portland, Oregon, the Park Department pur-
chased forty acres adjacent to a school building
located on a ten acre tract, an example of close
cooperation between two arms of the city gov-
ernment in the interest of human welfare. In-
cidentally, ratables on adjoining property have so
increased that the entire development has been
paid for.

We learned something about municipal finance
through the report that in order to procure a golf
course a certain city had golf classified as a mun-

icipal utility, issued certificates, retiring ten thou-
sand dollars worth a year. In 1937 this property
will be clear of any encumbrance and will be
worth more than a half million dollars to the
municipality.

Every park department should have a function
division whose sole and exclusive duty is to de-
velop and administer recreation services. The
recreation executive should be secured as early as
possible in the development of the system in order
that he may lend valuable aid in the planning of
recreation features and thereby assuring the tax-
payers of the maximum use of all facilities. He
can give valuable assistance, if his services are
requested, to landscape architects and civil and
construction engineers when preliminary designs
are being prepared for areas intended to be used
in whole or in part for active recreation purposes.
The recreation executive, because of his special
interests and training, is perhaps the best person
to make neighborhood studies when functions of
new park areas are being determined.

Certain definite funds should be specially allo-
cated in park budgets for recreation services, thus
permitting the executive to plan his program in
advance, and enabling the citizens to derive there-
from the sum total of all the advantages which
they have a right to expect.

Park departments should take advantage of
every available opportunity to increase their acre-
age by utilizing unused public property in the
form of school grounds and buildings, water sheds
for golf courses and other properties. It is only
through such a policy that park departments can
hope to meet the outstanding need in practically
every city for adequate children’s playgrounds
and neighborhood play parks.

If the parks are what some have termed them to
be, “the lungs of the community,” then they must
not only be provided with adequate facilities with
which to give the pe0ple of that community the-
opportunity to breathe into their systems fresh
air with all of its life—giving qualities; but they
must also furnish an opportunity for absorption
and appreciation of all that is good in art, music,
nature and physical endeavor.

Forms of Family Play and Recreation
BY JAMES H. MCCURDY, M.D.

International Young M en’s Christian Association College
Springfield, Massachusetts

RS. H. MALTBY, of Toronto, first em-
phasized that the home was fundamental

in recreation and raised the question of
how to stimulate character education through

5,3,, .s‘L'MMARIES

play Running all through the conference, al-
though it was not definitely defined, was this
thought, well suggested by Bower in his “Char-
acter Education Through Creative Experiences,”
that education comes through instruction first. It
comes, secondly, through habit formation, but it
comes best through cooperative, creative experi-
ence. And the theme seemed to run, directly or
indirectly, through all the discussion, that, some-
how, with the family group, if the parents feel
they must keep the lid on in habit formation
rather than in creative, c00perative experience,
they will not get what they really want to get.

Mrs. Melvin P. Porter, who, with her uncle,
founded the first playground in Buffalo, told of
the Frisco Athletic Club,
meeting in a barn with a
concrete floor where the
boys ran a boxing show
regularly, charging one cent
per person for admission.
They equipped the barn for
paddle tennis, had a punch-
ing bag, had a membership
of boys of eleven or twelve
numbering about forty-
two.

Another illustration given
was that of a lot in the
back of a home. The lot
was forty-two feet square
and it was used for a swim-
ming pool, the outlet for the
swimming pool being a
wash-tub. The children
brought in their turtles and
fish and had a great time
developing that side of it.
Then around the edge of
the pool they built some
trapezes and had some ap-
paratus of various kinds
for stunts. A good club was developed there.

Another example had to do with a father and
mother with four boys. The father was out of
work. He collected old automobile parts and
built a merry-go-round from those parts. Later
he built also a ferris wheel. Both those amuse-
ments were conducted without any accidents.

Then it was emphasized that it is necessary to
prepare parents properly for recreation. In one
city books were secured through the use of a
bibliography on the subject and parents were
helped to secure the proper sort of literature, par-

ticularly with reference to quiet games, rainy day
games, and various games for different ages.

The organization in Buffalo gave prizes, chiefly
playgrOund equipment, to those who had the most
economical equipment best adapted to their needs,
made chiefly by the children themselves. The
Board of Education also cooperated in furnish-
ing rooms for meetings.

Mr. \Vyman of St. Louis told how men out of
work made toys and apparatus for playgrounds.
Some of the men did so well at this that they
set up a toy-making business of their own.

Shelter, food and clothing are essential for children
in institutions, but there are other vital needs.

 

Courtesy Protestant Home for Unprotected Children, Buffalo, N. Y.

Mr. L. C. Schroeder spoke of home develop-
ment, particularly around New York, showing
that the real estate people, in building apartment
houses, had put rooms for play in the basement,
but almost none of them knew what to do with
the rooms. They thought they might use billiard
tables there, at first, but upon consideration they
were led to put in equipment that would help
the preschool child and the older children. Instead
of putting in a billiard table as a permanent fix-
ture, as they had planned, they put in a billiard
table that was ndemountable, that could be set

SUMMARIES 521

aside. They installed suitable games for pre-
school children, doll houses and blocks. Some-
one made the suggestion with reference to these
rooms set aside for play, that handcraft, bead and
leather work, soap carving, pantomimes, short

portant to have that sort of thing as to have a
bushel basket with which to measure potatoes and
apples, because we want to know how much we
are getting for our money, appropriating bodies
want to know what they are buying and how,

plays and dancing could be
carried out.

Mr. C. H. English, of Phila-
delphia, gave an illustration of
the use of attics under the
eaves. where bunks had been
installed so that at certain
times the girls of the family
could invite in their friends to
spend the night and have a rol-
licking good time. Then the
boys could use those attic
bunks, too, when they wanted
to invite a party of friends.

Rating Recreation Systems

According to Population
and Budgets

BY LEE F. HANMER,

Russell Sage Foundation, New
York

Municipal recreation departments
and social agencies in a number of
cities throughout the country are co-
operating with institutions in the pro-
motion of their play programs. In
Philadelphia. the local Playgrounds
Association employed a full-time di-
rector ot Play in Institutions. In Pitts-
burghl the Federation of Social
Agencies sponsored a training course
for workers in institutions. In Albany.
N. Y.. Readingl Pa.. Louisville. Ky..
and other cities the City Recreatioh
Departments send workers to the in-
stitutions during the summer months.
In Buffalo. a second training course for
institutions has been sponsored by the
Council of Social Agencies.

The National Recreation Associa-
tion is trying to help institutions solve
some of their play problems through
the services of a special tield worker
and a monthly bulletin service.

and city planners coming right
along in close line after them,
want to know what is the ex-
tent and character of the area
that should be designated for
recreational purposes in the
city plan.

You can see at once there

.are a lot of angles to this—the

character of the population,
whether a community is one
of separate homes and large,
generous yards, or whether it
is packed in into an industrial
area with tenement buildings
and apartment houses with
little surrounding space. The
population and the physical
characteristics are important
determining factors; also, the
amount of free time that

THE task set for our group

this morning was to de-

vise a measuring stick by
which communities may determine the progress
they were making in public recreation and the ex-
tent to which they were providing means of a
wholesome use of leisure time. I can’t show you
the stick because we didn’t get it finished!

We had a merry session in spite of the fact
that the subject was so scientific and so very seri-
ous. There were many views expressed as‘ to
how the plan could be carried out, and a number
agreed that it measured up largely to the back-
grounds of the different individuals and the cir-
cumstances under which they were working. That
shows you in a word what was the task of this
group, and so we have begged to have time
out a little bit on this matter to go to some fur-
ther lengths about it and, incidentally, to go
forward.

There were others who were struggling with
the matter of attendance and various other things,
which go into the problem of devising a measur-
ing-stick for this purpose.

It was a real, scientific topic, “Rating Rec-
reation Systems According to Population and
Budgets.” It was agreed we should have such
a measuring device if it was humanly possible to
produce it, and someone said it was just as im-

peOple have to use. and that
is a varying factor, as we
know, at the present time. .

Dr. Jacks pointed out very clearly the other
night what a lot of free time was now lying
around needing to be used, and it is a pertinent
part of the problem whether the community is
providing a means to capitalize that free time and
make it a constructive rather than a destructive
force. You can easily see how this has been pro—
gressing through the years. Not long ago, we
worked six days a week, of ten hours a day, and
now the talk is for five days of seven hours and
even six, and that means a large problem for the
community to teach these people to use their
spare time constructively and well.

Some thought this measuring device should be
constructed for measuring cities and thereby get-
ting rivalry; others thought that such a measur-
ing stick was to enable each executive to evaluate
his own work and thereby find out where he was
in the scale, using those findings to secure an
appropriation for adequate grounds, buildings,
staff and supplies with which to carry on his
work. It was very clearly pointed out, however,
that this device would not be a device for measur-
ing the achievements of a single recreation com-
mission in the community or the school board or

522 SUMMARIES

any other public agency, but rather for evaluating
all those complex factors that came into providing
community recreation, further complicating it.

Then the question was raised as to what extent
we should give credit to the work that was being
done by private and semi-private agencies.
churches, Boy Scout organizations, Girl Scouts,
the Camp Fire Girls—all those activities that were
privately conducted. It seemed to those in the
session, although no vote was taken on it, that
we should need to confine ourselves to this rule—
that we will not go into these allied fields of rec-
reational endeavor, for if we do we shall get so
involved we can never arrive at an acceptable plan.

The question was also raised as to the method
of rating the cities that are using facilities pub-
licly provided by agencies other than those in
the municipality itself. Specifically, that credit
should be given to Newark for the facilities pro-
vided by the Essex County Park Commission both
in and out of the city which definitely provide
recreational resources' to the people of Newark.
Westchester County no doubt would like to know
to what extent they should be given credit for
taking care of New York City at a considerable
expense and inconvenience! How much should
we set down to the credit of New York for the
Bear Mountain recreation park of 40,000 acres
taking care of 30,000 or 40,000 people coming up
from Paterson, Newark and other cities? You
see there is a regional aspect that comes into the
problem to complicate it further.

Then there were some amusing questions which
came up as to the refinement of these problems.
For example, Pittsburgh wanted to know just how
much credit it should have for its intensive use
of the limited number of public baths compared
with cities which may have many more baths but
had not used them so much. Detroit felt that
Pittsburgh should be penalized for having so few,
but Pittsburgh pointed with pride to the fact that
it had enough going on to stir up the smoke and
dust, making the baths necessary.

But we did agree that we would ask the Na-
tional Recreation Association that on our parks
and recreation service we receive a rating of 5,000
points: 1,000 for land and water areas; 550 for
community centers and other buildings; 1,200 for
personnel; 850 for program; 400 for administra-
tion, and 1,000 for finance. It was also requested
that a section on participation be added. It was
moved we ask the sponsors of the Congress to
assist the communities in finding out the measur—
ing stick and to give us the results.

Use of Schools as Indoor Recreation Centers
BY CLARENCE A. PERRY,

Russell Sage Foundation, New York City

H HE use of schools as indoor recreation cen-
ters—is the use growing?” So far as the

discussion went, it was quite evident that
the growth is increasing. When the chairman
asked if there was any representative of any city
in the room where there was no use made of
the schools for recreation work, there was not a
hand raised. Toronto claims that more and more
use is made of the schools for this purpose each
year, and I believe that fact is borne out by the
statistics published every year in the Year Book
of the National Recreation Association.

Now, why should schools be used as recreation
centers? All the reasons that apply to a recreation
program anywhere support the idea of the recrea-
tional use of the schools. The increased leisure
which is apparently going to come in this work-
aday world is going to increase this demand for
school buildings.

Mr. Fred Bartlett, of‘Toronto, spoke of the
fact that with the large amount of tax money de-
voted to school buildings the citizens have a right
to a marginal return on their investments.

Then the special adaptability of school facilities
for practising hobbies and for group meeting
places was discussed, eniphasis being placed upon
the importance of this wider use of the school
plant. In the vocational schools in Toronto there
are salesmen taking courses in engineering, clerks
engaged in woodworking, and people from all
walks of life practising some craft or skill which
they have not been able to enjoy before in the
course of their daily occupation.

Mr. J. J. Syme, Superintendent of the Hamil-
ton, Ontario, Playgrounds Association, showed
that through the use of the schools last winter for
recreational purposes the Association was able
on very short notice to produce a Maypole dance
at a community event. Without the regular use
of the schools where instruction in dancing is
given such a contribution would have been im—
possible. Moreover, such a successful presenta-
tion as that of the beautiful folk dance demon-
stration given by children of Hamilton at the Con-
gress is possible only through the use of the
schools.

It was the consensus of opinion that school
centers should be used by practically all races,
creeds and colors, who should be permitted full

use of these privileges.

SUMMARIES 523

Mr. Bartlett mentioned the non-athletic and
those not skilled, those who do not play well and
those who had no hobby, and said they should be
given a chance to develop one.

The number of activities that are possible pro-
hibited a complete discussion of program, but it
was brought out the school centers are being used
for every sort of activity for which their facili—
ties were fitted. There is, of course, the efficient
use of the gymnasiums for basketball and other
forms of athletics, the pools for swimming and
diving, and the auditoriums for plays and pag-
eants, the manual training departments for wood-
working, the kindergartens for club work, and
naturally there was considerable use reported of
school departments for music centers. A delegate
from Newark reported that in one rather old
center, an old school building in a part of town
that had no advantages, a symphony orchestra of
thirty-five pieces, two azz orchestras, a harmonica
band were organized and engaged in a contest.
In the coming year a young men’s glee club and
a colored chorus specializing in spirituals are to
be formed. Though many old school buildings
are poorly adapted architecturally as community
centers, surprisingly good programs are being
carried on in them.

In cities where stages in school centers are
available, there is a large use made of them for
dramatics in the school buildings. In some cities
they allow not only the high schools to be used,
but also the elementary schools. Of course, one
of the commonest uses of schools is for meeting
purposes. A growing number of all kinds of
societies and clubs find a meeting—place in the
neighborhood schools, especially such organiza-
tions as the Boy and Girl Scouts, the Four-H
Clubs, and similar juvenile organizations. There
are many social clubs in certain cities, and in
Newark these clubs issue a twelve-page monthly
magazine devoted to the activities of the centers.

In New York, Mr. Eugene T. Gibney’s list of
activities is classified under eight heads, and un-
derneath those eight heads are eighty-two kinds
of activities, under which his people make reports.

Two forms of administration were mentioned.
In Newark, where school centers are conducted
under the leadership of the Board of Education,
each center has a neighborhood council which is
of great assistance in adapting the program to
the needs of the community, in advising regarding
policies, and in suggesting leaders. No activities
are followed unless they are wanted by some par-
ticular group. The other form of administration

suggested is a large central bureau with a large
staff, such as that reported on by Mr. Gibney,
governing the activities of the playgrounds during
vacation as well as the program of the community
center. In New York there are two classes of
centers, one known as the official center conducted
by a paid staff of the Board of Education; the sec-
ond, the centers which are conducted by local asso-
ciations.

Company Recreation For Employees
BY HERBERT O. FRIND

Ontario C lab, Toronto

reation had an attendance of five. Today it

was seventy, and delegates from Canadian
industries of all kinds were there. One delegate
at the meeting really represented an industrial
membership of 250,000 members scattered all over
the globe. A delegate from a railroad company
represented possibly 80,000 people, and another
perhaps 75,000 or 80,000 people. It was a far
more representative group than we had expected
to find, and discussion was fast and furious!

From it all we had an impression that a new
era in organized industry has come; new life had
been injected into its organization. There has
come, too, we felt, a new orientation, and to one
who has had a little opportunity to see the Brit-
ish movement in publishing service and in indus-
trial welfare, that is a very significant contribu-
tion. We are just beginning to feel over here
the results of your work in the United States,
and there is now interest in the activity itself and
not in a mere spectatorship among the 90 per
cent instead of the 10 per cent where athletics,
sport and recreation for all are concerned. Tastes
differ and there must be variety in recreation.
Practically every week, every month we see some
new experiment, some new game or method of
recreation which should be recorded for the bene—
fit of all. .

A significant thing brought out was that the
depression is strangling commercialism by sub-
stituting something better for it.

Professionalism was one question discussed.
There is no such thing, the group felt, as semi-
professionalism; pure amateurism is just about
good enough for industry! The section went on
record very definitely in stating that professional-
ism has no place in the industrial program.

The discussion showed a clear cut desire for a
cooperative study of all of industry’s opportunity

LAST year a similar meeting on industrial rec-

  

524

Where

SUMMARIES

PERFORMANCE

Counts

The performance of playground equip-
ment is the determining factor as to its

worth and popularity.

Satisfactory performance is one of the
reasons why American Devices are in-
stalled in hundreds of playgrounds the
country over. They must be good or else
they would lack the popularity they have

rightfully acquired.

Our catalog will be sent upon request.

AMERICAN PLAYGROUND DEVICE Co.
ANDERSON, IND.

Diamond Official
Pitching Shoes

Now is the time to get
well stocked in pitching
horseshoe equipment. In-
door courts are easily in-
stalled and highly popular
where temperatures are
beginning to drop. The
Diamond line of shoes
and accessories is com-
plete from score pads to
ofticial shoes. \Vrite for
information.

 

 
   
   
    

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

  
   

DIAMOD

 

Eagle Ringer
Pitching Shoes

The Eagle Ringer is an
oliicial shoe of extra tine
quality. The shape is de-
signed to keep shoes from
spinning around the stake
and sliding off. Ringers
stay put with this model.

Drop forged, drawn in
oil, from high grade tool

steel—will not chip or
break.

DIAMOND CALK '

HORSESHOE C0.
4610 Grand Ave., Duluth, Minn.

and responsibility in the recreation field. It was
the opinion of the group that organized research
is much overdue. In such research industry will
cooperate, but a solution of the major part of
the problems will be found to be a community
problem as well as a national one. To promote
progress national cooperation would seem neces—
sary with the closest national liaison. It was felt
there should be further discussion of industrial
recreation at future Congresses.

As a direct outcome of the meeting, the Can-
adian representatives decided to organize a study
and research group with a view to more per-
manent cooperative organization in the recreation
field. The expression came from the Canadian
representatives that steps should be taken to con-
sider the question of a national organization in
Canada for cooperation between industrial and
other forms of recreation.

In conclusion, I should like to repeat what
seems to me to be the confession of an industrial
leader who is president of a large concern. He
said: “I am convinced that recreation, especially
outdoor recreation, promotes happiness and con-
tentment among employees. I also believe that a
prOper amount of recreation makes for thcient
workmen. I believe workmen produce more and
better material when they have proper recreation.”

Play in Institutions. Orphanages, Prisons.
Homes for the Aged

Bv LEO J. PALMER, .\I.D.,

Superintendent, New York State Rcformatory for Women

HE findings of our group were, briefly, as

follows: Although many institutions of all

varieties are still unaware of the many ad-
vantages certain to accrue from the successful
utilization of a well organized recreation program,
there is nevertheless an increasing trend towards
the adOption of the modern recreation movement,
and although the movement in this direction has
been slow and is, as a matter of fact, rather re-
cent, the results are both interesting and grati-
fying.

Where this adoption has occurred, the com-
munity has been carried, so to speak, into the
institution, and the inmates have been given the
beneht of more nearly social contacts, a matter of
vital importance because of its consequent social-
izing influence. This is equally true, whether in
a boys’ or girls’ correctional school, or a home
for the inhrm and indigent. Nor does the use-
fulness cease after it has been made to affect an

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

SUMMARIES 525

inmate group. Many institutions are not unlike I
Cloisters wherein their inhabitants, purposely or _J_
otherwise, are cut off from all contacts with the I THE I

outside world, and institutional groups, including

employees, are apt to find themselves thinking  
and acting in terms of a peculiarly distinct com-   

munity. Nothing tends to produce Stagnation of
thought and energy more rapidly, and it is for
this reason that we frequently find the burden
of interest in an institution directed towards the
plant and physical utilities, and the pursuance of . By
strict and unnatural disciplines. Maurlce J- Karpf
It then follows that if the primary purpose of
institutions of various kinds is to provide the
resocializing and rehabilitating influences so nec-

A STUDY IN FAMILY CASE WORK

The author, Director of the Training School

essary; they muSt remain an integral part Of the for Jewish Social Work, presents his book as
communities. The consensus of the group was to a carefully considered answer to these vital
the effect that recreation of a fitting kind tends questions: What knowledge d0 social wo‘rk'

° - 7 7
to prov1de the necessary “carry-over” influence 5” “e‘d' What knowledge, do they "36'
What knowledge do they receive? And how

of the outer community into the more restrlcted may their work acquire a scientific basis?
environment, and not only influences an inmate pn-ce, $3.75-

group but produces within the employee group an

awareness of the social service implications of

their particular jobs. The result is a better piece COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS
of work from the employee and most certainly an I Descripn-m of any book 0,, Wm,
inmate group far more acceptable, socially. —i—

Having pointed out the fundamental needs of

I

DAGA LOOM FRAMES *
are efficient, easy to operate, suitable for artistic weavings, and inexpensive.

The Daga Loom is operated with a patented heddle bar so
easy to operate that a child of kindergarten age can ma-
nipulate it. The loom has a wide shed and takes a warp of
more than a yard length.

It is an unsurpassed frame for the classroom—order by
the dozen.

To the child it represents a loom that is practical for their
weaving needs and which gives all the pleasure found in a
toy.

For the weaving minded individual, it has all the ele-
ments of the large loom, can be taken along when travelling,
handled like one’s piece of knitting or embroidery, and used
as an ideal diversion.

Daga Looms make valued gifts. All models come equipped
with a shuttle and instruction sheet. Warping and decorated
cartons are optional.

F..___

 

The prices on the two models now offered are as follows:

Daga Loom No. 25 (91/2 inches in width) $2.00 with shuttle and instruction sheet
Daga Loom No. 25—$2.50 with a 20/2 warp and packed in decorated carton
Daga Loom No. 35 (14 inches in width) $3.25 with shuttle and instruction sheet
Daga Loom No. 35—$4.00 with a 20/2 cotton warp, packed in decorated carton

Other types and sizes will 'be offered later

EMILE BERNAT & SONS CO. - - - - JAMAICA PLAIN, MASS.

 

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

526 SUMMARIES

THE MEANING OF FREEDOM

This much-discussed topic in education will be fully treated in the December, 1931, issue of

PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION

Among the contributors are, William Heard Kilpatrick, Teachers College; Joshua Lieberman, editor
of “Pioneer Youth”; Hughes Mearns, New York University; Laura Zirbes, Ohio State University; S. A.
Courtis, University of Michigan; Mrs. Josephine Duveneck, Peninsula School of Creative Education,
San Francisco; Mrs. Gudrun Thorne-Thomsen, Ojai Valley School, California; Elsa Ueland, Carson

College, Pennsylvania.

You will not want to miss this unusual number, nor the many features in 1932 of practical, stimu-
lating benefit. PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION is issued from October to May, inclusive, a magazine

which has won widespread recognition in the field of liberal education. A subscription entitles you
to membership in the Progressive Education Association. Note the special offer in the coupon attached

below for your convenience.

PROGRESSIVE EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
716 Jackson Place, Washington, D. C.

Dept. W
Date ............................................................................ ..

Enclosed is my check for $3.00 for which enter my subscribing-membership in the Progressive Education Association
for one year from date. I am to receive one previous issue free of charge.

Enclosed is my check for $5.00 for which enter my subscribing-membership for two years from date. I am to receive

one previous issue free of charge.

Please write clearly your
name and address to which
you wish the magazine sent

recreation in institutions and the fact that all argu-
ment is in favor of it as a necessity rather than a
luxury, the question arises as to its practicability.
The average institutional community, even
though of Special type, after all varies but little
in its interests from the average community.
There is consequently no place for the thought
that the principles of recreation must differ in
their application to institutional programs except,
perhaps, in adaptation to the particular problem
approached.
- There is no institution too large or too small
wherein it is not possible to provide some degree
of recreation. Recreation, however, in the spe-
cialized institutional environment, must be as
properly directed as that in the outside commu-
nity. It would be far better to provide no pro-
gram than to furnish a program impr0perly
handled or managed, and experience has shown
that the latter expedient has too often defeated
its own ends. Too much emphasis, then, cannot
be placed on the value of directing one of the
most important institutional functions through a
person thoroughly familiar with its principles

and manipulations if the results are to be con-
structive.

The problem of securing trained service is an

 

important one. Some communities furnish rec-
reational facilities to the institutions within their
conhnes, notably Albany, New York, and Read-
ing, Pennsylvania. Louisville, Kentucky, pro-
vides a traveling instructor whose duty it is to
furnish recreation activities to the institutional
protégés and instruction to the institutional lead-
ers. The question of how far a community play-
ground or recreation system should go in provid-
ing this service is not one primarily of willing-
ness or effectiveness, but rather one of ability,
depending upon its financial and personnel limi-
tations.

Where the institution is entirely dependent
upon its own resources and cannot afford a so-
called full-time department, it_would do well to
limit the sc0pe of its activities and provide qual-
ity rather than quantity. It is better, in other
words, to employ a well trained and competent
worker on a part-time basis, or use his spare time
for other activities, than to employ a person
trained in one of the other professions and per-
mit or expect that person to handle a recreation
program in his spare time.

As to the matter of results being obtained, a
wealth of material can be called into evidence.
Because of the necessary nature of this report, it

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

SUMMARIES 527

 

THE JOURNAL FOR HIGH SCHOOL PEOPLE

The Junior-Senior High School Clearing House

A challenging journal for liberal secondary-school people
A progressive magazine, revealing present practices and suggesting improvements
Can you afford to be without it?

Schedule of Numbers for 193l—vl7932

Thanksgiving Number “Improving Winter Opportunities."
Christmas Number “Safeguarding Educational Momentum.”
New-Year Number "Surveys and Innovations.”

Winter Number - “Evaluating Our Progress."

Spring Number - “Entering the Last Lap.”

Conference Number “Needs and Opportunities."

Vacation Number “The End of the Cruise.”

  
       
         
 
           
       

 
 

November
December
January
February
March -
April -
May -

Edited by a National Committee Published Monthly from September to May
Subscription Address—
$3.00 a year The Junior-Senior High School Clearing House
40 cents a copy 32 Washington Place, New York, N. Y.

Three Months for One Dollar

So convinced are we that new subscribers want to continue the Clearing House, that we gladly extend this trial offer
to prospective subscribers. However, it carries no obligation beyond the three trial numbers.

GIVE IT A TRIAL — THEN DECIDE

The magazine to be sent for three issues to:

Name .......................................................................................................... .. City .............................................................................................................. ..
Street
or School .................................................................................................... ..State ............................................................................................................ ..

Send this coupon and your dollar to:
The Junior-Senior High School Clearing House, 32 Washington Place, New York, N. Y.

If you prefer, send $3.00 for a one-year subscription. ,

 

 

is not possible to allude to specific illustrations of
.the effectiveness of institutional recreation. In or e, CHI C AG 0,,
substance, however, it is important to note that Win fer, too— playground
the emotional outlet provided has in each instance .. r  I_ F? E quipm e nt
been most healthy in that it has tended to bring  u " _ ,
about a better balance between work and spare
time. It has unquestionably been productive of a
better moral tone or atmosphere, has promoted
group consciousness and spirit and has been the
means in unlimited instances of correcting per-
sonality deviations and conduct disorders.

May we then say, in conclusion, that recreation
in the several types of institutions is not only
practical, but highly desirable; that the prin-
ciples of recreation differ in no way from their
intra-institutional application from the extra-

HICAGO Toboggan No. 300, pictured above, designed

institutional; that because Of the many difficulties primaryst for bob slft‘ljs afnd winter use, has a ddetgciil-
. ab e 3 - oot wave si e or spring, summer an a .
that beset the best and most well meaning efforts Like other “Chicago” equipment, it is carefully de-
. . . . . . signed and strongly built. It has large capacity and
of a layman In any spec1allzed field, It Is deSlrable, will keep a crowd of children healthiully and happily
- . busy with safety.
If not actually necessary, to have any recreational . . .

. _ ' . In preparing for Winter sports, you Wlll need a
pro ject planned and at least Indirectly superv15ed :gglgflgg: caglfggwgd 311°“ PM“! “ “e'm‘”
b a S e   ' _ pecially designed for scrap- -

yl p c a (list In the field, and, finally, that prop ingd Hooded skating pgnds .Wnte for
er ' ' an removing snow rom u n
yf Ii arm: aarid illlperlifsed recreation Is a most grounds and walks. Catalog B
useu an vuaetera i
_ Raft C agent for The CHICAGO GYMNASIUM EQUIPMENT (:0.
treatment, en masse and IndIVIdually, of a soc1al- 1835 w. Lake St., CHICAGO, U. s. A.

ized group.

 

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

World

at

Play

The police

Safety Activities department
in Saginaw at: Saginaw,
Michigan,

has a sergeant assigned to the
schools during the school term for
instruction and supervision in
safety. During the summer he is
assigned to the City Recreation
Department. The sergeant is much
interested in children, knows a
number of games and playground activities, and
in addition to talks to groups regarding safety
in traffic and on the playground, he cmiducts ac-
tivities on streets temporarily closed to traffic for
volley ball, races, and games of low organization.
During the morning he visits the playgrounds, or-
ganizing safety patrols for the boys and safety
clubs for the girls, planning their program and
giving them rules and practical lessons. In the
afternoon he takes responsibility for a street
shower which he operates on a fixed schedule.
making weekly visits to fifteen locations in parts
of the city at some distance from a playground.

Last winter Dearborn,
Michigan, enjoyed its first
winter sports program un-
der the auSpices of the City
Recreation Department, of which H. D. Schu-
bert is superintendent. Ten skating rinks have
been kept in condition and two toboggans, a ski
jump and a hockey pen have been built. One of
the toboggans has a chute of 90 feet, the other
70 feet, and they are built on a natural hillside
making a long slide possible at the bottom. The
hockey pen has a braced wooden arena with forty
Hood lights for night play. A six team local hockey
league has been organized and a Southern Michi-
gan Hockey League with six teams from cities in
the vicinity play most of their games here. A
skating carnival has been held with a large number

528

Winter Sports
in Dearborn

 

Courtesy illinneapoh': Board of Park Commissioner:

of participants in the races and with a game of
broom hockey in which a team of women defeated
a team composed of the Mayor and other city
oflicials.

Michigan is prepared to
provide facilities for those
who enjoy winter camping.
Caretakers will remain at
thirteen state parks during the winter season and
all camping facilities will be available. There
will be no restrictions requiring the campers to
move in two weeks.

Winter Camping
in Michigan

At the Ohio State Plan-
ning Conference, held at
Columbus, Ohio, October
29th to 30th, an entire after-
noon was devoted to a discussion of the various
types of recreation as they affect parks of differ-
ent types. Among the speakers on the program
were John H. Gourley, Commissioner of Recrea-
tion, Cleveland, Ohio, who talked on City Play-
grounds, and Miss Mabel Madden of the Public
Recreation Commission of Cincinnati, Ohio, who
spoke on Recreation as a Social Force. It was
the first time, Mr. W. A. Stinchcomb, Director-
Secretary of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park
Board, stated, that recreation had had a place on
the program of the conference. There was much
interest in the discussion.

Recreation and
State Planning

  

Ye Christmas Piano Book

By Mary Bacon Mason, Oliver Ditson
Company, Inc., price 75c.

LSE\VHERE in this issue there is

mention of collections of Christmas
carols. We are glad to announce the
publication of a book of accompaniments
for all of the carols there mentioned.
which have been made especially easy
to play. so that no recreation center or
home need be without an accompanist
for carol singing, where there is any-
one who has had any lessons at all in
playing. Despite their simplicity the
accompaniments sound entirely adequate.

Emotion

By George W. Gerwig. School Better-
ment Studies. Henry C. Frick Educa-
tional Commission. Union Trust Build-
ing, Pittsburgh. Free.

HIS volume of School Betterment

Studies, having to do with character
training, deals with the emotions. “When
these three, feeling first, thought sec-
ond and these two blended into right
action. are combined, the triple product
is character.” Two chapters in par-
ticular will be of interest to recreation workers—Emo-
tion and Art and Emotion and Sport. In the latter chap—
ter the author states that the sports are the easiest.
most direct and most effective approach to the emotions
of children of all ages. “The quest for adequate emo-
tional expression and freedom through helpful action

nowhere tinds better channels than through the field of
sports.”

The Museum Comes to Life

By Maribelle Cormack and William P. Alexander. Amer-
ican Book Company, New York. $.57.

” HAT could be more diverting and edifying,” says

Anna Botsford Comstock in her introduction, “than
the idea of a little short-tailed wanderer mousing around
the museum, holding intimate converse with the ani-
mals and birds and listening to their thrilling life
stories 1” And this is the delightful plan followed in
this volume with innumerable illustrations which should
make it irresistible to children, giving them at the same
time a vision of the experiences of animals in finding

food and mates and in overcoming or escaping their
enemies.

New Books on Recreation

 

 

Courtesy AIinncafolis Board of Park Commissioners

You Can Make It for Profit

By H. Conrad Hoover. Government Printing Office,
\Vashington, D. C. $.10 per c0py; $4.00 per 100.

HE National Committee on W'ood Utilization of the

Department of Commerce has issued the third of its
series of “You Can Make It” bulletins. This particular
booklet is designed to be of help to those temporarily
unemployed and most of the articles suggested, the
Committee states, will find a ready market because they
cater to the needs of individual homes and do not com-
pete with commodities produced on a mass production
scale. Furthermore, inexpensive tools and elaborate ma-
chinery are not required to make the objects described
in the manual; a few simple tools found in almost any
home will be sufficient to construct the articles. More
than a hundred useful home and other articles are de-
scribed and illustrated in the booklet. One of them, known
as “The Scandinavian Spark,” will be of special interest
at just this time when talk of winter sports is in the air.
It consists of a chair mounted on long steel runners and
propelled by the driver standing on one runner and
pushing with the other foot.

The manual contains in addition to plans, lists of mate-

rials and instructions, suggestions for marketing the arti-
cles made for profit.

529

530

SUMMARIES

“AThe constant prog—

ress of a billion dollar field
is accurately and interest-
ingly reflected in the pages

of “Southern City." AAA

“AHere you will find

news of the latest activities
of public officials through-
out the South—news of
undertakings accomplished

and plans for future
activities.

SOUTHEIQ~

W

DIXIE’S ONLY SOUTHWIDE
CITY BUILDING PUBLICATION

Baker & Ivy Streets
ATLANTA, GEORGIA

KENDALL

COLLEGE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Formerly Chicago Normal School of Physical Education

Be a director of Phnical Education. playground auperriaor. dancing teacher.
or awlmmtng instructor. Two-rear diploma and three-year B.P.E. counea
for young women high achool zraduatea. Accredited. Free appointment
bureau. Faculty 0! trained apeclaltata. Complete equipment. Fine
dormitorlea. Catalog.

MID TERM OPENS FEBRUARY lat

REGISTRAR. 5028 GREENWOOD AVE.

BOX 5121 CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
—

THE PLAY PARTY IN INDIANA. Compiled by Leah Jackson
Wolford, M.A. Indiana Historical Commission,
Indianapolis.

By the act of the Indiana General Assembly signed by
the Governor in 1915, the Indiana Historical Commission
was created to collect and publish documentary and other
materials on the history of Indiana. The Play Party in
Indiana represents a delightful collection of about sixty
folk songs and games gathered from Ripley County. Care-
ful directions and music are given for each game. The
games have been classified on the basis of age of players,
of dramatic features, of dance formation and of geographi—
cal location. Mr. Lynn Rohrbough, Social Recreation
Union, Delaware, Ohio, has been able to assemble a few
copies of this book which he will be glad to supply to
recreation workers at 80 cents a copy.

Our Joyful'st Feast
(C omfnued from page 473)

0 Little Town of Bethlehem
0 Sanctissima

Silent Night
We Three Kings of Orient Are
While Shepherds Watched Their Flocks by Night

We recommend also “The Christmas Book,”
published by this Association at 35 cents a copy.

Its table of contents is as follows:

A Devonshire Christmas
A Christmas Frolic

The St. George Play
The Perfect Gift

A Christmas Carnival in Carols and Pantomimes
Stories of the Christmas Carols

The Community Christmas Celebration
Christmas Plays and Pageants

List of Christmas Music

May this Christmas, despite the depression,
have its beneficent way with more pe0ple than
ever, even among those who need it this year
more than they have ever needed it before!

The Congress and Unemployment
(Continued from page 477)

recreation purposes. Where this is done a com-
munity recreation organization can help effectively
in planning programs, selecting game equipment
and training the volunteer and paid workers of
these agencies in appropriate recreation activities.

Please mention RxcaxA'rmN when writing advertisers

SUMMARIES

TENNIS NETS

a also a
Backstop Nets

Soccer Nets

Coll Practice Nets

in fact

_A_|| Sport Nets

This house has long
been headquarters
for all the above.

W. A. AUGUR

35 Fulton Street New York

 

The following chart summarizes the suggestions
in this bulletin for ready reference:
I. The Use of Unemployed “Labor”

(a) The improvement of old areas

(b) The improvement of new areas secured by
bond issues
. tax appropriations
donations
“setting aside” in subdivisions
. lease
. loan

(c) Construction of new facilities
paths, tennis courts, golf courses, etc.)
II. The Use of “White Collar” Unemployed

(a) As foremen, time—keepers, etc., in improve-
ment work

(b) Assistants on playgrounds, play fields, in
indoor community centers.

(c) Activities specialists

(d) Directors (and assistants) of special un-
employment recreation centers

(e) Special intensive training and adequate
supervision to be provided
III. Recreation Service to Unemployed

(a) In existing indoor and outdoor centers

(b) In new indoor and outdoor centers made
possible by use of “white collar” workers

emewwr

(bridle

1.5:  is 
.. ._“ 3:. ""-

 

  

  

 

 

   
  

    

2!an 

 t '.

 

 

II

I.
_'l

a

slim

l
_r
‘ L' i.
. —
.I

__|_ _
“£41, I _

 

 

 

 

- J‘
El! r.
laid“?   77—...“ r:

w '—

.. ,5... - ..

"Junglegym" Trade Mark’Rogis-
tered United States Patent 0mm

Licensed under Patents of Octo-
ber 23. 1923, March 25. 1924

A Permanent
Playground

With the Junglegym No. 2 as part of
your playground equipment you may
be sure that it will be a popular spot
with the children. This is not a
seasonable piece of apparatus—it can
be used as effectively in winter as in
summer. It requires no supervision

and is capable of handling 75 chil—

dren.

Keep the children out-of-doors

and let them benefit by the safe and

healthful exercise provided by the

Junglegym.

Playground Department

Chicopee, Mass.

Please mention RECREATION when writing advertisers

 

532 SUMMARIES

(c) In special recreation centers for unem-

ployed only
((1) Cooperation with other local agencies

 

Today's Unemployment
(Continued from page 482

cover a new world. \Ve are pioneers, and the
pioneering spirit which led our ancestors into
the wildernesses all over the world is leading us
today, leading us, I think, to the discovery of a
vast continent of human values hitherto unsus-
pected, richer treasures, richer in real values than
all the geographical continents of the world put
together.

Of course, we may come to grief. Nobody
should ever embark upon a great adventure with-
out facing the possibility that he may come to
grief, but that risk may well be faced. it is not
a hard condition for those who believe as I do
that life consists in the facing of risks and is never
so precious, never so well worth living, as when
we face the risks courageously.

Let us, then, be bold enough to face the risks
in the great work that lies before us!

 

What We Have Learned
(Continued from page 499)

tiful art of “let alone.” Little children don’t want

much teaching. Just give them the things they
need. The main thing, although you have to do
the teaching, of course, is to have a place to play.
The child must learn to play for it is a long, long
time before he finds his own soul and can listen
to what you have to say.

Mention was made of winter Sports. That is
a hobby of mine so I must say something about it.
The low per capita tax on winter sports is very
true. People will skate on any level space large
enough without your giving any attention to them.
All you have to do is to provide the ice. Near
to the piazza back of my house I had a coaster
built up to one of the windows. We put snow
at one end and the children would coast there in-
terminably. The cost was practically nothincr.

In training the child for adult play we have the
dilemma of choosing how far he should be trained
for the future and how far he should be allowed
to live now. It is a great problem. How great
was shown by- Dr. McCurdy, who spoke: of the

ll.

very short time a human being has to learn the
skills, to learn to play the piano or to catch a ball.
He has to learn it. in ten or twelve years but he
must live meanwhile.

\Ve have had the joy of finding that recreation
is useful; that it helps us in war and helps us in
peace; that it helps our morale and helps our
minds. It is universal. It makes the whole world
kin. It is the same with all races and all peoples
are nearly enough alike to sing the same songs.

It is not for its uses that play exists. These
uses help, but mental and physical powers exist
that there may be recreation—that men may ex-
press themselves in the fullest and best way and
that they may/express themselves more freely.

As a result of it all, let us not much longer
postpone life itself for the sake of acquiring the

means of living.

 

STATEMENT OF Till-3 OWNERSHIP. MANAGEMENT. CIRCULATION.
ETC.. REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF CONGRESS 01" AUGUST 24. 1912
gigslllncnaa'rtox, plibilshed monthly at New York. N. Y.. for October 1.
State or New York )

County of New York i"-

Betore me. a Notsry Public in and for the State and county aforesaid.
personally appeared 11. S. Braucher. who. having been duly sworn according
to law. deposes and says that he is the Editor of IIECBIATION. and
that the following is. to the best or his knowledge and belief. a true
statement or the ownership. management (and it a daily paper. the cir-
cuiation). etc.. or the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above
caption. required by the Act of August 24. 1912. embodied in section 411.
Postal Laws and Regulations. printed on the reverse or this form. to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher. editor. managing
editor. and business managers are:

Y I?bll\§he§: National Recreation Association. 315 Fourth Avenue. New

or . . . .

Editor: II. 3. Braucher. 315 Fourth Avenue. New York. N. Y.

Managing Editor: Abbie Condit. 315 Fourth Avenue. New York. N. Y.
Vlig'siness Manager: Arthur Williams. 315 Fourth Avenue. New York.

2. That the owner is: (It Owned by a corporation. its name and ad-
dress must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names and
addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more or total
amount of stock. it not owned by a corporation. the names and addresses
of the individual owners must be given. It owned by a firm. company. or
other unincorporated concern. its name and address. as well as those of
each individual member. must be given.)

National Recreation Association. 315 Fourth Avenue. New York. N. Y.

Mrs. Edward W. Biddle. Carllsle. Pa.: William Butterworth. Holine.
Iil.: Clarence M. Clark. Philadelphia. Pa.: Henry L. Corbett. Portland.
Ore.: Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer. Jacksonville. Fla.: F. Trubee Davison.
Locost Valley. L. 1.. N. Y.: Mrs. Thomas A. Edison. West Orange. N. 1.;
John H. Finley. New York. N. Y.: llugh Frayne. New York. N. Y.:
Robert Garrett. Baltimore. Md.: Austin E. Grimths. Seattle. Wash;
William Ilaie Harkness. New York. N. Y.: Charles Iiayden, New York. N.
Y.: Mrs. Charles V. Hickox. Michigan City. Ind.: Mrs. Francis deLacy
Hyde. Plainneid. N. 1.: Gustast T. Kirby. New York. N. Y.: H. McK.
Landon. Indianapolis. 1nd.: Mrs. Charles D. banter. Greenwich. Conn..-
Robert Lassiter. Charlotte. N. C.: Joseph Lee. Boston. Mass: Edward
E. Loomis. New York. N. Y.: 1. ll. McCurdy, Springtieid. Msss.; Otto
T. Mallory. Philadelphia. Pa.: Walter A. May. Pittsburgh. Pa.: Carl E.
Milllkcn. Augusta. Me.: Miss Ellen Scripps. LaJolia. Caiit.: Frederick S.
Titsworth. New York. N. Y.: Mrs. James W. Wadsworth. Jr.. Washington.
D. C.: J. C. Walsh. New York. N. Y.: John G. Winant. Concord. N. IL:
Mrs. William 1!. Woodln. Jr.. i’iainneid. N. J.: Frederic M. Warburg.
New York. N. Y.: C. S. Weston. Scranton. Pa.

3. That the known bondholders. mortgagees. and other security holders
owning or holding I per cent or more or total amount of bonds. mortgages.
or other securities are: (If there are none. so state.) None.

4. That the two paragraphs nest above. giving the names or the
owners. stockholders. and security holders. it any. contain not only the list
of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of
the company but also. in cases where the stockholder or security holder
appears upon the books or the company as trustee or in any other
fiduciary relation. the name of the person or mrporation for whom such
trustee is acting. is given: also that the said two paragraphs contain
statements embracing amant's full knowledge and belief as to the cir-
cumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders
who do not appear upon the books or the company as trustees. hold
stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona tide owner:
and this atllant bas no reason to believe that any other person. associa-
tion. or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock.
bonds. or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number or copies or each issue or this publica-
tion sold or distributed. through tbe mails or otherwise. to paid sub-
scribers during the six months preceding the date shown above is (This
information is required from daily publications only.)

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION INCORPORATED
H. S. Bureaus. Secretary.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this I-ith day or October. 1931.
[Seal] CLARENCE B. WILsox. .

Queens County Clerk's No. 1943. Certiiicate died in New York County

Clerk's No. 502.
i - (My commission expires March 39. 1932.)

otz'

