 

JOHN H. FINLEY

  

   

The Leisure Commandment

 
 

REMEMBER the days of thy

leisure to keep them holy.
Thou shalt do with all thy
might and skill thy share
of the work of the world.
whether on land, at sea or in
the heavens above the earth.
Thou shalt keep as hallowed
thy time of leisure and find
thine hours of unemploy—
ment blest by thy best use of
them.

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

 

265

n
2 _ Wa’.‘
.— —- _—._ -._.— .

Out-ol-Doors in September

.J...
a
a

Photo by J. E. Roger:

School days once again! But with them comes
crisp September weather when each hour spent
out-ol-doors is Filled with keenest pleasure;
when the touch ol coolness in the air invig-
orates, and there is an irresistible call to

liquor-v Sun-Irv w.” re " '
til

seek out hidden, secluded places in the woods,
by the side ol: sparkling water, underneath
spreading trees which are beginning to dis-
card their summer apparel and are covering
the ground with leaVes ol brown and scarlet.

 

   
   
    
  
    
   
  
   
 
 
  
 

By
OHN A. KINNEMAN

Department of Sociology
Illinois State Normal
University

n educator evaluates curriculum mater-
al 05 a means of meeting leisure time
ds created by modern mechanization.

HAVE a neighbor who is a carpenter. He is also
quite a skillful automobile mechanic. When
the brakes on his car need re-lining he sets
out to do the job. If the rear axle breaks, as it
id recently, he is able to make the necessary re-
airs. If there is need for repairs in the motor
e does them skillfully and inexpensively. In this
ork he is ably assisted by his son of high school
e, a lad who has just completed the construc-
ion of a canoe, who finds in automobile mechan-
cs a relief from the tension created by his aca-
emic fields of study. All of these things are done
n their rear yard.

My daughters, aged three and six, are im-
ressed by the skill of our neighbors in making
utomobile repairs. They are also aware of the
elative incompetence of their father when it
omes to making similar repairs. My elder

The Public School and Recreation

 

Courtesy Radburn, N. 1., Association

Professorial dignity is often forgotten when
curriculum subjects become play in the home!

daughter has been quizzing me recently concern-
ing my reasons for taking our car to the repair
shop when adjustments are needed. Recently the
younger daughter, in the presence of the elder,
made some fanciful inquiries concerning my
ability at roller skating, in diving and in cutting
down trees. I had to plead only a limited com-
petence or a total inability in each of these fields.
Finally, I fear somewhat in disgust for her fa-
ther’s meager ability, my six-year—old said to her
sister, “daddy can’t do anything except work.”
That was a wise remark for it summarized the
chief and maybe the most objectionable phase of
my character and is the basis for the burden, in
the form of this paper, which is being placed upon
the readers of RECREATION.

Some Reasons for Recreational Deficiencies

In a desire to fix responsibility for my recrea-
tional deficiencies, I am more disposed to explain
them, (maybe improperly so), as a result of the
impact of the school system than I am to place
responsibility upon my personal inflexibility. To

267

268

do this leaves me in a position where I can ra—
tionalize upon my deficiencies to the point of ac—
counting for shortcomings on the grounds of
early conditioning. In order to fit into this highly
mechanical civilization of the present era I prob-
ably should have been playing tennis at the age
of fifteen instead of doing quadratic equations;
at the times when I was hunting for ablative ab-
solutes and for peculiar accusatives I should have
been playing a comet or maybe a sinful saxo—
phone; the afternoons during my school days
when I was employed I doubtless should have
been playing baseball on the village nine; instead
of attending school with absolute regularity five
days of the week my education would have been
more usable at the present time if I had gone
hunting occasionally; during the hours when I
was memorizing facts about the lives of writers
in the fields of English and American letters I
could have been employed more advantageously,
with a view to establishing habits of leisure, if I
had been reading second or third rate fiction——
material which was not included in the approved
reading lists.

Recreation, in the region in which I grew to
young manhood, was either wasteful or sinful—
wasteful in the sense that it
did not provide immediate
profits in the strenuous
struggle for economic suc-
cess, and sinful in the sense
that many forms of recrea-
tion were tabooed. A few il-
lustrations on the sinfulness
of recreation will suffice.
Having grown up in Penn-
sylvania I felt the impact of
what I have since come to
know as the “Blue Laws.”
Every person familiar with
sports knows that major
league games in the national
sport are not played in Pennsylvania on Sundays.
Within the last decade I was threatened with for—
cible ejectment on a Sunday morning from a
store in a teachers’ college town in Pennsylvania
because I desired to make a purchase of peanuts,
preparatory to feeding the squirrels in a public
park. It was not until the senior year of my col-
lege career, in the post-war era, that ice cream
was sold on Sundays in the town in which my
college was located. The first person to engage
in the nefarious traffic was a dark complexioned

Physical Education.

THE PUBLIC SCHOOL AND RECREATION

Play and recreation are, as Professor
Dewey suggests, "moral necessities," but
only as they possess the qualities of
rapture, contributing to the enriching
and Freeing of the meanings of life. . . .
It may be worthwhile to consider what
our advocacy of play and recreation re-
ally means. Certainly the narrow premises
of a practical hygiene of the avoidance
of crime, even if the latter can be proved,
are admirable but partial.
more vital is needed it we are to capture
the imagination of people. Icsse Fairing

Williams, in The Iournal of Health and

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  

Greek. Within the past six years the chief iss
in the municipal election of one of Pennsylvani
leading cities was the question of whether t
newly elected mayor would permit Sunday ba
ball. It is surprising to know of the large num
of college students in Illinois who have been
strained from dancing by the taboos of their ho
communities represented in the direct negati
of their parents. These citations are made mer
to illustrate some of the difficulties which h
made the introduction of recreational progra
difficult in many instances.

Not only has recreation been sinful but I
people of an earlier generation looked with (I
favor upon recreational activities because p
ticipation in them was not likely to put mo
into one’s pockets. Consequently many of t
people of my age and generation are burdens
themselves and their friends largely because t
schools which they attended tried to fix habits
studiousness and hard work rather than a vari
of tastes which might have value in spending
rapidly increasing amount of leisure time.

The question naturally arises as to what t
school could have done and can do. There .
many things. Without going into the question
the non—functional charac
of the material taught in t
various subject fields of t
school it is obvious, if
examine the recreational 1
terests of our fellows, t
the material of any and eve
subject in the curriculum c
be employed for recreatio
purposes. Evidence can
found in the activities of
few persons of my acquai
ance. It so happens that .
most all of my acquaintan
are school teachers—mos
of the humble variety.
generalizations, therefore, may not cover ev
vocation but that is no proof that persons in ot
vocations than teaching might not find some r
reational expressions in seemingly strange sourc

Something

Educators and Their Hobbies

A few illustrations will suffice. 1 know a p

fessor of mathematics in an eastern college. W

called to Europe for an important piece of w
he chanced to settle in Italy for a time.

learned the Italian language so well that when

    
   
  
  
    

'. urned to his college he sought permission to
7' ch it and did so. This same man was not will-
i 1 to be burdened by long, winter evenings or to
(1 his sole expression in bridge. He gathered
ut him all of the available books and sources
the fine arts and soon there was evolved a

urse for his college on the history of art. \Vith
' 's man, as with so many, avocational interests
come vocational. Despite his lifty years, he
s, when I knew him, an excellent baseball
yer. However, he never tried to ruin the rec-
tional value of the game by trying to break
0 organized baseball. Despite his age he was
- of the gayest dancers in the college commun-
. No one would dare to charge that time might
ng heavily on his hands. \Vith him there were
w a y s t o o

   
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
    
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
   

‘I have a

'nd who teaches physi-
education. His chief
ocation is not golf or
ing, but wood work-
. \Vith more than an
inary share of modesty
has turned out some
e pieces of craftsman-
°p. Not until I met him
a learned of his inter-
5 did I realize that the
ustrial arts might have
s t r o n g recreational
nd. Until then I had
ught that the chief
iction of the industrial
.. was vocational. I won-
if too often the utili-
'an is not the only em-
sis in this field of
y.

know two college pro-
ors in eastern colleges
ne in Education and one in Languages, who
fess that they use higher mathematics instead
solitaire as a diversion during the long even—
5. In addition, it is interesting to note that one
these men is a line ’cellist. I know an old
lical doctor, one of the pioneers in the field of
sical education in America, who was a na-
al authority on birds—their habitats, their
5 and other characteristics. His extended
trips were an event for all who participated

l

THE PUBLIC SCHOOL AND RECREATION 269

in them. Every June, after he had completed in
his school a year of instruction in formal gym-
nastics—marching, club swinging, parallel bars
and other similar forms—he started for Long
Island where he spent the summer giving in-
struction in birds. His imitations of bird songs
would have been paid for in vaudeville houses at
handsome prices of admission had he chosen to
commercialize his recreational interest. I know,
too, a professor of mathematics who is modest
about his musical ability. After knowing him for
five years I learned that he played in a reasonably
select string quartette—not for money, but for

fun.
It was a revelation to me some time ago to
learn of three professional acquaintances of mine
who paint for recreation—not their

 interCSt‘ "Every subiect field in the curriculum should houses: as I Once SuspeCted one Of
things to do. be utilized osameans of spendingleisure time." them of doing When he told me of

his painting, but landscapes, por—

 

Courtesy Seattle Department of Park:

traits, still life and other subjects. I know a
teacher of printing who is a fine band master. I
know of a commercial teacher who, years ago,
turned to public school music and has made an
immense fortune from the sale of his books. I
know another commercial teacher who could
probably make his living on the concert stage.
One of my acquaintances in the printing busi-
ness spends his Sundays and holidays drawing
original plans for houses. \Vhile still a young

270 THE PUBLIC SCHOOL AND RECREATION

man he has built two un—
usual houses as the result
of selecting what seemed to
be the most original plans of
his creation. Who is there
who would have thought
that house planning could
have become a recreation!
The man who courteously
provides our household
with laundry service be-
comes expressive on the
quality and beauty of the
lilies he grows in his gar-
den. One of my barber ac-
quaintances talks at great
length and with much dis—
crimination on the color of
his Buff Orpingtons and on
the markings of his Barred
Plymouth Rocks. A nurse of my acquaintance,
in order to rest from the fatiguing work of her
profession, has developed embroidering, tatting
and other forms of hand work into a fine art.

The School Must Train for the Use of Leisure

These illustrations might be multiplied many
times. However, it is fair to assume that except
for the two men who used mathematics as 'a recre-
ational activity there were none of these persons
who were the direct beneficiaries of the public
school system. The printer was never allowed to
waste his time drawing house plans. He probably
had to do his geometry. The barber has no recol—
lections of his school days except as they meant
a new kind of deviltry or an unpleasant task in
grammar. Surely he received no Urge from the
school in mastering the intricacies of chicken
breeding. And the nurse! Had she been caught
doing hand work in school it is certain that she
would have been put to work on her geography
lesson, dominantly of the place variety. School
work might have been interesting to her if she
had been allowed to study linens, cottons, thread
and designing. These people learned their paint-
ing, their wood working, their music, their art
study, their house planning, their sports from
private teachers, from self study or from their
family environment. It is safe to assume that
the school did nothing for these people in these
so-called “non-essentials.”

It becomes evident, from these illustrations,
that every subject field in the curriculum should

"We view with disfavor the tendency toward
the multiplication of district, sectional, state
and national contests.
embrace every conceivable activity—some
conducted by professional organizations with
a high purpose, but many representing only
thinly veiled commercial interests. Regard-
less of sponsorship these state contests in-
volve almost certain disorganization of school
work, solicitation of funds for their financial
support,special preparation, and great nerv-
-ous strain on the part of the contestants.
Therefore, we feel that such district, state
and national contests should be discouraged,
and eventually, unless of proved social and
educational value, abolished."—From resolu-
tion adopted by Department of Superin-
tendence, N. E. A., at the meeting held in
Washington, February, I932.

  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
   
 
   

be utilized as a means a
spending leisure time. I
fact, as teachers we sho
minimize the importance 1
subject fields and set abo
to use, in fulfilling one u
the major aims of edu .
tion, those materials whi
wo uld have function
value in meeting the nee
for recreation in our mo
ern mechanized civilizatio
10f course if curricul
material in the schools is
be employed for meeti
the leisure gap created I
modern mechanization
will become necessary
develop appreciations f
all persons along sever
lines rather than stardom for a few persons '
one or two lines. Suppose we apply this princ
ple to athletics in order to illustrate the poi
Games and sports on a functional basis of sou
education must be set up so that several bas
principles can be met. We must have gam
and sports for all, not for a few stars. To th
end the large high schools with functional pr
grams provide a large variety of games fro
which the student can choose. This will mea
contrary to almost all current practices,-that i
tra-mural and not inter-school sports shall be e
phasized. Furthermore, in making sports fun
tional the less expensive, wherever everything el
is equal, must be chosen in preference to the mo
expensive. In spite of my personal fondness f
tennis it is evident that volley ball is a more fun
tional game. Not only can more people be a
commodated in the game at less cost but it can i
played all seasons of the year. Finally, tho
sports have functional value which carry over
the lives of the players after they leave scho
This is not true, as every one knows, of our m
extensively maintained school and college spo
——football and basketball.‘ If we are to prep
people for spending their leisure time advanta 
ously we should emphasize in school and colle
such sports as tennis, handball, volley ball a
golf. Men continue to play these games un
rather late in life instead of quitting them w
they leave school.

*Our school programs of athletics are genera
non-functional because American schools

The contests now 

THE PUBLIC SCHOOL AND RECREATION 271

   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
    
   
 
 

rsed by the craze for stardom. It ranges from merely to be familiar with the work of such per-
e colleges, down through the high schools and sons as Thrasher and Shaw in order to have the
to the junior high schools. \Ve have long since contention established. A wide acquaintance with
ased to marvel at the Big Ten Conference and and a keen appreciation of books, in all their

' . workings. We now have state high school forms, might be claimed to be a more desirable
hletic conferences, county high school athletic form of entertainment than gambling; playing

. ntests and even county tournaments for the tennis probably more desirable than “necking”;
ungsters in grammar school or junior high volley ball more appropriate than shooting craps,
hool. The home town always wants a winner even annoying the neighbors with one's saxo-
d the school program, or may be lack of it, is phone more socially desirable than becoming

uned to the town’s demands. The alumni, the introspective.

n about town, the sporting fraternity, the The public school, therefore, needs to develop
orts writers, the salesmen of athletic equipment, an educational program with the view to con-
e barber shop board of strategy and occasionally trolling the extensive problem of leisure time—a
e student body want a winner. To the end of problem of far greater magnitude a decade from
ving a winner we are willing to sacrifice active now than it is at the present time. School gardens,
rticipation for all or many in the interest of a where organized, need to emphasize the growing
ssive participation on the part of the spectators. of citizens rather than the perfect cultivation of
Let it be clear that the field of athletics is not flowers and vegetables. Dramatics, increasing in

- only one in which stardom has run rampant. their development everywhere in schools and col-
usic and literary contests have gone to seed on leges, need to emphasize the phase of personality
nners, badges and cups quite as much as has enrichment which comes from participation,
er been the case with organized sports. To be rather than a kind of social subservience that de-
te champions in debate is the goal of too velops from watching the “stars.” Athletic
ny schools and not the development of the coaches need to learn that their job is one of de-
gest number of persons in effective speaking veloping the largest number of persons in the
in attempting to get at the truth in the course greatest variety of channels rather than win
speaking. We have na- trophies with a few stars.

nal contests for bands ,, , , . _
But the things that communities propose Band and orChestra con
(1 orchestras and state

to do to schools in the hysteria of econ- ductors need to forget the
nteSts for Choral and glee omy far surpass the wildest abberations of

bs. We have state dra- bull-market days. We hear a great deal , .
tic contests. In these about frills. What are frills? Teachers' sal- and Orgamze the” StUdentS

ntests is the end the de_ aries appear to be frills in some cities. with the end of making 31--

’ The health of school children is a frill in
velopment 0f the large“ others. Since night schools are a frill in
mber 0f Persons “Nth a one community we close them and throw Zens through music—not of

w to developing a high 75,000 people into the streets. . : . . . the “Stars” but of a” who
rec of proficiency in en- Only a people that had no conception of _

the place of education in its national life hear the can to thls Par'
could contemplate the ruin of the next ticular activity and are not
generation as the best remedy for govern-

state and national contests

ticulate and socialized citi-

'ing leisure time or is the
(I one of developing a few

1‘5? The answer is CVi- mental insolvency."—Robert M. Hutcbins, tone deaf' Sports and
nt on all hands—it is rep- President, University of Chicago, in School games, including dancing
nted visibly in banners, Life- in its many forms, need to
, s and medals and in the be Organized for the joy

tively low order of appreciation which the

. that comes to the individual rather than for the
testants develop for their supposed art. '

emblems that are pinned on his chest. Litera-

" 5 teaChers We Shoum be able “Qt only to See ture teachers need to learn that a mastery of the

all subject helds the possibility of developing
' l in leisure, but we should also see that skill in
urc provides a source of control. This is so
dent that it needs no elaboration.x The rcla- Velopment 0f the reading habit With a View to
ship between delinquency and improper and making every Citizen 3 g00d Companion for him‘

dequate leisure is so obvious that one needs self at the library or Under his reading lamp.

mechanics of the language is infinitely less valu-
able so far as leisure is concerned than is the de-

Courtesy
Dept. of Parks,

Brooklyn, N. Y.  ".

By GEORGE T. STAFFORD

Director of Focultyond Graduate Student Recreation

University of Illinois.

HE wide range of recreation activities avail-
T able to all students of the University of 11-

linois has been of such interest and benefit to
thousands of young men and women that it was
considered desirable to organize some such pro-
gram for the faculty and graduate students. The
writer was accordingly appointed in the summer
of 1931 to organize and promote a system of rec-
reation for graduate students and faculty mem-
bers. The original idea was that the program
should be confined to activities for men. There

have, however, developed many social activities
for both men and women.

Organizing the Program

A committee known as the Faculty Recreation
Committee was appointed from among the mem-
bers who had been participating in exercises and
games under the leadership of the writer and who
were familiar with various phases of the recrea-
tion program. Care was taken in organizing the
committee to have it a cross section of the faculty.
The next step involved the sending of a letter to
all the faculty members telling of the plan and
asking their cooperation. In the letter was en-
closed a list entitled “Available Recreational Ac-
tivities.” The faculty were asked to check the fa-
cilities and activities in which they were interested

272

Faculty; at Play

 

Though not a curriculum subi

recreation holds a very I
portant place at one univers'

and to state the hours during which they wo
like to participate in the recreation program.
The activities and facilities listed follow:

1. Apparatus work 14. Playground Basebal
2. Archery ‘ 15. Shuf‘lieboard

3. Badminton 16. Skating

4. Basketball 17. Soccer

5. Boxing 18. Squash racquets

6. Calisthenics 19. Swimming

7. Fencing 20. Stadium ball

8. Golf 21. Tennis

9. Gymnastic dancing 22. Tumbling

10. Handball 23. Volley ball

11. Hiking 24. Wrestling

12. Horseshoe pitching 25. Bowling

13. Ping—pong 26. Advice regarding a

cise program

A similar letter and enclosure were sent to
undergraduate students.

The results. far exceeded expectations. 0
five hundred men responded with the reques
be registered in one or more of the various
tivities. Handball and skating (indoors) led
list, with 150 registrations each. Tennis c
next, with 100; then followed golf and bow
with 90 each, and swimming, with 80. T
were 40 faculty and graduate students
wanted to hike. Horseshoe pitching, volley
and playground baseball were equally pop
with 30 registrations in each. Thus it went c

( Continued on page 304)

Recreation and Health Education

Shall play~self education~be subordi-
nated to a program of health education?

1115 Committee finds it-
self confused when Rec-
reation is listed under
ealth Education. In our
pinion, that either betrays
misconception of the sig-
ificance of recreation, in the
resent use of the term, or
t indicates a wholly new
'gnificance as applied to the
am health. Recreation cannot and does not con-
:der the child as an inmate of the world, rather
explorer, an adventurer. Emphasis on health
vors of positivism, of restriction. That is coun-
er to the very essence of those freedoms which
-. re basic to any modern recreation service. The
formal child is not a patient. In his play he
scapes the exactions of a curriculum, escapes
nto those freedoms of choice and action essen-
ial to any eXploration of his latent abilities which
1iS inclination demands.

Health education is imposed education. Recre-
tion is essentially self education through a wide
'ariety of experience. In it abilities are experi-
~ entally discovered or developed. Aptitudes are
scertained, personal choices are evolved and sub-
ected to self imposed disciplines in his play.
1 here he acquires skills and confidence in his abil-
y to achieve skills. In play he gains status,
. ial adjustment, recognition for what he ac-
mplished, and the joy of living and doing. Life
mes to organization around the core of per-
nal achievement. This whole process of self
alization and self expression, the acquirement
f selfhood, is so important in the development
f personality that it is entitled to stand on its

vn feet. In our opinion it must not be sub-

dinated to a program of health education. Phy-
' al health in a child we can conceive of if a
oper balance in food, exercise, rest, sunshine,
(1 fresh air, is maintained, without play; but we

and Protection.

In all parts of the country there are cannOt Conceive 0f emOtional

being held follow-up meetings of the health in a Child denied a
White House Conference on Child Health normal play life.
This article incorpo-

rates the report of the Subcommittee on b . d .
Recreation and Health Education of the ever’ 6 Conceive In terms

Chicago Regional Conference. Here is 0f health in its broadeSt 1305'
a significant statement of obiectives, a sible connotations, implying

defining of terms, which all interested the utmost in mental and
in recreation will read with eagerness.

If health education, how-

' spiritual hygienes and in ad-

justment to the World and
to life in it; if health education is to be inter—
preted in terms of the placement of the individual
in society, his vocational and social adjustments,
as well as his personality development, then that
interpretation should be specified at the outset,
and other factors in the educational process, if
not the whole of education itself, should be in-
cluded under such a glorified Health Education,
along with Recreation.

RECOMMENDATIONS

1. In the Children’s Charter which resulted
from the White House Conference, Article 9
reads as follows: “F or every child a community
which recognizes and plans for his needs, pro-
tects him again physical dangers, moral hazards,
and disease; provides him with safe and whole-
some places for play and recreation, and makes
provision for his cultural and social needs.”

This Committee submits the vagueness of this
article, in comparison with the following in Ar-
ticle 10: “For every child an education which,
through the discovery and deveIOpment of his in-
dividual abilities, prepares him for life; and
through training and vocational guidance pre-
pares him for a living which will yield him the
maximum of satisfaction.”

We feel that Article IO should be incorporated
in Article 9, in our local application, because the
present day concept of the place of Recreation is
best expressed in the interpretation stated in

273

 

274 RECREATION AND HEALTH EDUCATION

Article 10, understanding, of course, that play
and recreation has its proportionate part in the
total program of education.

NOTE: Not “safe and wholesome places,”
but the “discovery and development of abili-
ties” is the very keynote of modern recrea—
tion, in order to prepare for a living yielding
the maximum of satisfaction.

2. We further submit, in the language of Ar-
ticle 9, that a community which recognizes and
plans for the needs of every child, supplementing
its “provison of safe and wholesome places of
play and recreation,” must, in program, opera-
tion, and leaders, grant him freedom of choice
in defining his own notion of play, with sympa-
thetic cooperation in helping him to express this
notion in socially accepted behavior.

NOTE: This freedom of choice, to permit
response to preferences to natural bent or in-
clination, is the outstanding characteristic of
the recreation attack.

3. We believe,
also, that the play-
ground recreation
program, in its
scope, should af-
ford a sufficient
range of possible
activity, that the
child may select
with some hope
of satisfaction, an
activity appealing
to his individual
needs at the time,
and that in ad-
ministration, this
program should
not arbitrarily make him
move on until he has ex-
perienced all of the satisfac-
tions which that activity af-
fords him, and experienced
those satisfactions in the
tempo or progression pe-
culiar to his own rate of
progress.

NOTE: There is a nice distinction here be-
tween encouragement and harmful distrac-
tion. By a “sufiicient range” we mean physical
sports and games, manual arts and creative

 

Live every moment you can in the open.
Observe, remember, and be curious
enough to search for information about
what you see and hear of nature in your
play and on your hikes through fields,
woods and mountains! And your life will
be tremendously enriched by this intimate

acquaintance with the

Martin johnson in Child Life, April, I932.

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
  

activities, elementary opportunities in t
arts, music, the drama, chances to render .
truistic community service, and the like.

4. We believe that equipment which is recr
tionally sound is educationally sound. This me
that the selection of play equipment should
controlled by careful analysis as to the outco
of use of that equipment.

NOTE: Fad equipment, selected at rand
with the hope that it will be “pOpular,”
not conducive to a real recreation service.
may lend itself to holding of events, but .
events do not constitute a recreation progr-

5. Just as the city, in its expansion, reser
underground rights, and takes for streets and
leys and other public purposes, property r
cisely adapted to its needs, so recreation or p
spaces should not consist of merely what is l
in community development, but should be s
cifically adapted as an integral part of the c
munity’s plan to the recreational needs as
have outlin
them here.

NOTE: Prec
adaptation
needs is the o
safe process
developing rec
ation areas.
may mean noo
for quiet ho
of intense ap
cation, or s
cially adapt
construction «
pools, or p
areas. But as
policy, the
velopment should point
its use, rather than have
conditioned by the pre—
veloped area.

“We make a ridiculo
fetish of health nowada
. . . . When we give pl
recreation, and the ot
popular arts their pro
place beside the fine arts, we shall avoid, th
the popular error which degrades play to a me

cal instrument.”——Richard Cabot, M.D. in
Soul of Play.

great outdoors.

Educators’ Point of View—

Intangibles

By FLORENCE HALE

President, National Education Association

E are confronted with the question of whe-
ther or not music and art and perhaps fine
literature are luxuries in the school cur-

.'culum which may be omitted without great

mage to the welfare of the child.

To my way of thinkng all three of these sub-
ects are intangible values and their outcomes are
ore practical in the long run than any subjects
ught in the schools. It would not be difficult to
gue for the practical value of these subjects
part from their high ethical value. First of all,
e must decide what is the aim of education and
1e answer is, in simple language, to teach a child
. w to live. That education is the most desirable
hich enables him to live highly and usefully in
e world about him. \Ve might almost say that
day education must be of the sort that would
table a person to wish to live at all amidst the
- addening maze of things in present day civili-
tion.

0 The subjects of music and art and literature are

ften described as the “intangibles” in education

cause it is rather difficult to put into a brief
.tement just what their contribution is to our
i n of education. However, most of us realize
at the most valuable things we have in the
rld, like honor, love and reverence, are virtues
rd to describe in brief statements—about the
1y things worth preserving, as a matter of fact,
our relationships with each ‘other. So it is with
ese subjects which are things of the soul, as

I 11 as of the mind and of the hand. In these

ys with the noise and perplexities and the rush-

_ life we lead, it is absolutely necessary that in

' r education we teach our children to build up

ources within themselves—cities of refuge, as

nry Turner Bailey used to call them—to which

y may retreat to get courage to face this sort

life. To some, music is a thing of the soul, a

(Continued on page 305)

   

  
   
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
    
   
  

 

Leisure and the Schools

By. DR. WILLIAM A. WETZEL
Principal, Central H. 8.. Trenton, N. J.

NE of the most significant characteristics of
0 our modern society is the rapid growth of
leisure. The harvest of the 1930 wheat
crop would in 1885 have taken twenty million more
men. Prior to 1919 one man could make about 75
electric light bulbs a day. To make 75,000 bulbs
was the work of a thousand men. _ In 1920 an au-
tomatic machine was invented which, with the
help of six men, produced 75,000 bulbs in a day.
That is, six men then did the work of 1,000 men.
Recent improvements have doubled the capacity
of this machine.

Now leisure is not necessarily a good thing.
That depends on the use to which it is put. The
most degraded creature in the world is the
monkey in the cage because he doesn’t know what
to do with his time. i i

It is the people with no hobbies who have to
“kill time” by reading inane books, going to sense-
less movies and gossiping parties.

“Sir,” said Dr. Samuel Johnson, “the reason
why a man drinks is that he is not interesting
enough to himself to pass his leisure hours with-
out it.”

There is no telling where the intelligent use of
leisure may lead. George Eastman was a clerk
and studied photography during his leisure time.
Today the infiuence of the Eastman Kodak Com-
pany extends around the world, and George East-
man was one of America’s most useful citizens.
The \Vright Brothers conducted a bicycle shop
and studied flying during their leisure time. The
greatest authority on snow flakes is not a scient-
ist, but a man named Bentley in Jericho, Ver-
mont. He has photographed more than four
thousand patterns and sold them to jewelers, lace
makers and wall paper manufacturers.

A modern education program must recognize
the demands of leisure. Play is the safety valve

(Continued on page 305)

Surfacing Playground Areas

(Part II)

This second installment on surfacing
describes specific types of composi-
tion, including details on mixing.

NE of the smoothest and most desirable play-
0 ing surfaces is the mixed asphalt type,
similar to that used as paving on im-
portant thoroughfares. It is a mixture of about
90% sand and stone dust with about 10%
asphalt mixed hot laid and compacted to a depth
of I to IV; inches. It is
advisable that this surfac-
ing be laid upon a so-
called binder course of I
inch thickness composed
of 70% stone, 25% sand
and 5% asphaltic cement.
When the base course is
of asphaltic concrete, the
binder course is not need-
ed. A foundation course
of cinders, gravel or brok-
en stone is of course re-
quired. Sheet asphalt is
often used to resurface
stone, clay and other types
of areas which are already pro-
vided with subdrainage. Very
satisfactory results have been re-
ported with this type of surface.
Cold-Mix*:r (Cincinnati)
Sometimes a cold-mix is used with specially
prepared asphalt cements known as emulsified
asphalt and cut-back asphalt. When mixed with
unheated sand or stone they produce a hard sur-
face. Such a surface has been used in Cincinnati
for both playgrounds and tennis courts. In this
city a concrete base 4” thick and reinforced with
steel mesh was used as a base for the bituminous
surfacing, the specifications for which are sum-
marized as follows:

276

 

Courtesy A. .S'. Barnes and Co. “Play Areas”

The layout and surfacing of this
court facilitate use for paddle
tennis, basketball and volley ball.

Bituminous Surfacing: The bituminous surfaci
shall be composed of cut—back tar, of quality meeting t
requirements of the Ohio State Highway specificati
for cutaback coal tar, mixed with hard limestone chi
all of which have been screened through a %” scr
and retained upon a %” screen. These chips sh
be of hard limestone, well graded as to size of partic
and thoroughly dry when mixed with the coal tar.
mixing shall be done mechanically to assure thoro
mixing. Cutwback coal tar shall be used at the proporti
of twelve to fourteen gallons to each cubic yard of sto
Each batch is to be of the same prOportion.

The bituminous material shall be spread only when t
concrete base is thoroughly dry and has set for a peri
of not less than fifteen days. The bituminous surfaci
shall be of uniform thickness throughout after compa
ing with a self-propelled roller weighing not more th

three tons and this thickn
shall 'be not less than one in

I
!
l
9

After the first rolling t
contractor shall careful
check the entire surface w
a straight edge and any
equalities in the surface sh
be removed by raking off
adding new material as 1
case may be. The entire a
shall then be re-rolled a
again checked and the p
cess repeated as many ti
as necessary to obtain a sat
factory surface.

The contractor shall sw
over this surface a sufiici .
quantity of fine sand to fill
surface voids and shall then appl
squeegee coat of cut-back coal t
The bituminous surfacing shall t
be rolled each day for three succ
sive days.

This is one of the most expensive types of s
facing reported and furthermore a squeegee c
may need to be applied every two or three ye
to the tennis courts at a cost of approximat
$100 per court. In Rockford, Illinois, cut—b

asphalt is applied as a binder on a base of li
stone, using pea gravel and torpedo sand a

* For data on this type of surface, see end of report.
T For cost data, see “Surfacing Costs” at end of repo

 

   
 
 
   
    
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
    
   
   
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 

ish. The approximate amount applied is from
to 2% gallons per square yard.

- ykold Courts"

According to reports, “cold” asphalt surfaces
e popular on the Pacific coast. The tennis courts
Stanford University, after five years use, are
orted to be very satisfactory. They are con-
ucted as follows:

I
i
l
|

“Surface mentioned here is called ‘Laykold’ or ‘Bitu-
' ls’ procurable in all localities by one name or the
er. Our courts consist (1) rolled subgrade to which
veed killer is applied; (2) 4" crushed rock sub-base—
lled and re—rolled, and crushed rock added; (3) 2"
ykold’ base consisting of ‘Laykold' and rock mixed in
concrete machine for 1% minutes; (4) one-half inch
ykold’ wearing surface consisting of ‘Laykold’ and
d’s eye rock mixed as in (3) above and then trowelled

then applied. This wash has to be re-applied every four
five years.”

A report from Alhambra, California, tells of a
rt similar to the above except for the top sur-
e which is made of Bitumuls mixed in a con-
te mixer with spruce sawdust. It is applied
ut three-quarters of an inch thick and the day
er being laid it is rolled with a light power
ler. The finished surface is reported to be
lilar in texture to a coarse linoleum and to have
siderable resilience.

k Asphalt "' 1' (Boston)

A special type of surfacing used on the school
ygrounds in Boston and vicinity is a cork as-
lt which has been highly recommended by sev-
l recreation leaders who have investigated it.
* original cost is high but it has proved to
nd up under several years’ use, it is very re-
ent and it does not become as hot in summer
many other types of bituminous surface. The
lowing specifications are from the Boston
001 authorities:

grade for Cork Asphalt 3

ring surface of area to be pav-
to a su-bgrade 4” below finished
des, great care being taken to
e subgrade parallel to finished
‘ es.

Concrete Base

'pou this subbase lay a tar con-
e pavement composed of a base
clean stone that will pass
ugh a 2" ring, well smeared
hot road pitch, one gallon to ‘
square yard, and thoroughly
ed to bring it to an even grade,
atch basin.

a smooth surface; (5) a seal coat wash of ‘Laykold’ ,

SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS 277

Binding Coum

The binding course to be of clean screened rubble or
broken stone not exceeding V4" in diameter, heated to
about 250° Fahrenheit and mixed while hot with hot
pitch and tar composition in proportion of about one
gallon composition to one cubic foot of stone. This
shall spread while hot over the base course already pre-
pared of such depth that after compressed into the base
course it shall, with the base course, give a total depth

of not less than 3" thoroughly rolled to a grade parallel
to and 1” below finished grades.

Asphalt Cork Wearing Surface

The wearing surface shall be composed of clean gran-
ulated cork, free from dirt and other foreign matter,
size not to exceed M,” in diameter, and equal in quality
to that in which grapes are usually packed, sharp coarse
sand equal to the best Newburyport heated to about 250°

Fahrenheit and first quality Trinidad Asphalt Paving
cement in the following proportions:

Cork . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..% cubic yard
Sand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 cubic feet
Asphalt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32 gallons

These ingredients are to be heated and thoroughly
mixed while hot in a mechanical asphalt mixing plant or

by hand in a heated pan, satisfactory to the Superin-
tendent, and spread immediately on the binding course
and thoroughly compressed and rolled to smooth even
surface before cooling. The wearing surface shall be

1” in thickness after compression. The surface shall
then be sprinkled with fine white sand.

Ready-to-Lay Materials

Especially where equipment essential for mix-
ing asphalt is not available, it may be advisable to
use some of the ready-to-lay materials that are on
the market and that are being increasingly used
for the surfacing of play areas. These materials
are mixed at the factory and are shipped in cars

* For comments on this type of surface, see end of report.

1' For cost data, see “Surfacing Costs" at end of report.

Laying certain types of surfacing is a task
involving technical knowledge and precision.

 

278 SURF/ICING PLAYGROUND AREAS

to the job, requiring only a suitable base and sim—
ple equipment for spreading and rolling. A two
inch layer of intermediate size mix is generally
required, which is compacted with a hand roller.
Over this surface is spread a nne mix to a depth
of about one inch. If a smoother surface is de—
sired the voids may be filled by a mixture of sand
and asphalt. The materials may be stored for
future use. A number of cities have reported
favorable results from the use of this type of
surface for tennis and handball courts and general
play areas. Among the many types of such ma—
terials the following were called to the commit-
tee’s attention, Amiesite, Colprovia, Tarvia—lithicf
and 'Warrenite. Several park and recreation au-
thorities have reported that Tarvia—lithic surfaces
are proving highly satisfactory.

Other Special Bituminous Surfaces

Rock Asphalt, a natural bituminous sandstone
is used in several cities as a tennis court surfac-
ing. This asphalt is used as produced, with no
preparation other than crushing and grinding. It
is applied as a layer from %” to 1%” in thick-
ness on a subsurface of gravel, cinders, macadam
pentration asphalt or concrete. Some cities recom—
mend it highly whereas others which have used
it believe the less expensive sheet asphalt to be
equally satisfactory. Two types reported in this
study are Kentucky Rock asphalt * 'l' and Calrock.

Browne’s Velvet* is an inexpensive surface
used widely in the southeast. It consists of a sub-
surface of crushed rock on which is applied hot
asphalt road oil (No. II gravity flux) on which
cedar sawdust is scattered and rolled into the oil.
This special surface was developed by Professor
A. D. Browne after considerable experimentation.
Several recreation leaders do not recommend it
because of its tendency to bleed in hot weather.
The surface in Tampa, Florida, previously de—
scribed, is an adaptation of it. _

Asphalt cinder surfacesi' have .been developed
and are being used on play areas in many cities.
Upon a base of crushed stone or cinders are laid
about foul“ inches of clean, washed cinders, which
are sprinkled and rolled. There is then applied a
coat of bituminous materials which forms a com-
pact surface on which may be added a thin coat
of line cinders. In some cases pre-mixed asphalt
coated cinders are used for the surface, with a
finished surface of hue asphalt coated sand or
stone. As in some other types of courts a green
surface may be secured by spreading dark green
slate granules over the area. “Colas”1‘ is one of

.minous courts are considered more satisfactory

the best known surfaces of this type, althoug
some difficulty due to the scaling of the finishe
surface has been reported.

Another asphalt type court which was broug
to the committee’s attention but on which littl
information is available is Flex—I—Dry.* 1'

Concrete.* 1'

Most recreation leaders agree that concrete
not a satisfactory surface for general play p
poses. It is too hard, lacking resiliency, and
likelyuto prove harmful to the feet of the childr
who play on it. On the other hand it is bein
used increasingly as a surface for special ga
courts such as tennis and handball. Althoug
there is opposition to the use of such courts 0
the grounds that they are harmful to the player
there is testimony to the effect that if thick sole
rubber shoes are worn there are no detrimenta ‘
effects since the shock is absorbed by the shoes. 

 

Many of the; reasons given for the growin I
population of asphalt surfaces apply equally t '
concrete although the latter is not resilient and i l
is very difficult to repair such courts if they crac
or wear due to faulty construction. Furthermor
the cost is greater than in the case of most type
of asphalt surface.

Of the cities submitting information in connec
tion with this study, indicating either their pref
erence or experience with “hard surface” tenni
courts, five favor concrete as compared with six
teen which prefer or use some type of bituminou
surface. In a few cases cost is mentioned as
reason for the choice, but more often the bitu

Perhaps some cities have adopted concrete rathe
than asphalt for their tennis courts because th
construction of concrete surfaces has been stand
ardized whereas there are many different kinds 0
bituminous surfaces involving a variety of mate
rials and construction methods. In only one cit
was concrete suggested for basketball and volle
ball although it is used for handball courts. In .
few cases the bituminous surface is laid on .
concrete base. '

Detailed specifications for concrete surfaces ar
not given here because they are available'fro
any of the large cement companies, and as in th
case of other types of surfaces, they vary wit
local climatic and soil conditions.

* For comments on this type of surface, see end of repor
1' For cost data, see “Surfacmg Costs” at end of report.

SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS 279

 

urtcsy A. S. Barnes and Co. "Play Areas"

is felt that wherever possible turf should be
d as surfacing for older girls’ play areas.

'scellaneous Surfaces
In addition to those previously described there
e a number of special types of patented surfac-
- materials on the market. Some of them are
mparatively new and the committee has little
formation as to the extent to which they have
oved satisfactory. The cost of shipping these
terials is a factor to be considered by cities
ntempating their use. One surfacing material,
own as Rubico,1' has been used in a number of
ies for tennis courts, running tracks and other
y areas. It is a manufactured product pri—
rily of clay and is not essentially different from
high class, clay court. A Rubico Green or Red
p Dressing, a combination of clays, shale, marl
feldspar, is also available in 100 pound bags
dy for spreading. It may be applied to any
i of court and provides a red, fast drying sur-
e. Fifty bags are required for one court.
Another type is known as the “Har-Tru”1‘
en or.red fast drying tennis surfacing. Its
t, however, is likely to discourage its wide use
municipal play areas.

wdust

n the northwest where sawdust is available in
,, quantities it is used with success in the sur-
ing of playing fields. The following statement
Professor Bovard of the University of Ore—

1 describes the method used by him which has '

ved satisfactory.

e use a special sawdust that comes from the cut-off
s in the mills. These saws produce a sawdust that is
little cubes about one-eighth inch on the side. \Ve
l carefully screen it so that all bark, chips or slivers
wood are removed. If the bark is left in it. it pro-

an irritation to the skin on account of the very

ll splinters which come off of the bark. \Ve usually
t by covering the field from two to three inches deep

with sawdust. If the dirt below
is not a dobie or does not con-
tain rocks or a hard shale, we
then disc the field very lightly.
We then add sand—about enough
to cover the field one inch deep.
\Ve are fortunate here in having
a sandy loam which we get from
near the river, which contains
approximately the right amount
of clay. This mixture of sand
and sawdust is again disced, the

field is graded and rolled.

\Vhe’n the field is first made,
the top surface is very liable to
be loose and if it gets too dry
the wind will 'blow the sawdust or a heavy rain will
wash the sawdust out of the field. To avoid this we
attempt to keep the field moist at all times so that the
sand and sawdust will keep the mixture that we have
made by discing the field. If the field gets too hard it
means that we have added too much clay and we remedy
this by adding a little sawdust or pure sand, preferably
we use the sawdust. If the field is too loose or too soft,
we add more sand and more clay. By experience we have
learned the right mixture to make for this type of field.
The mixture for one field usually differs from that
needed on another. A great deal depends on the sub-
soil as to what kind of drainage you have but we have
been able to play on these fields throughout the entire
year, even though after the first of October and up to
the first of April we have considerable rain. The field
is porous which allows the water to come down through
the sawdust which keeps the field from being sticky. If
we want an especially dry field in the winter we add
another surface of sawdust.

An experiment recently tried on a playground
in San Francisco was to cover an area with six
inches of spruce shavings and to apply on them
two inches of loam as a top surface. Reports have
not been received as to the results secured.

INEXPENSIVE SURFACING METHODS
Frequently a city does not have sufficient funds

to permit a thorough surfacing job and it is pos-
sible only to treat the existing surface. A few
suggestions have been made which may be help-
ful but it should be recognized that the results
are not likely to be as lasting or satisfactory as if
a new surface were laid. A great deal depends
upon the porosity of the soil and the slope of the
finished surface. '

From California come these suggestions for

treating a clay surface:

“After the area has been crowned or sloped for pur-
poses of drainage, it could be disced, heavily or lightly
as desired, given a dressing of gravel which should be
rolled; then give the area a light top dressing of sand.

1 For cost data, see “Surfacing Costs” at end of report.

 

280 SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS

Following the application of sand the area could be
dragged with a flexible steel mat to smooth the area.
This being done the area could be Sprinkled with a

heavy hand roller. K
"If there is very little money obtainable for treatment

of the surface, attention should first be given to the
grade or slope of the area (give it plenty of slope), then
with crank case oil, which can be secured for little or
no price, sprinkle the area, then roll. A good ground
man can do a good job with crank case oil.”

Another inexpensive treatment for a loam or
clay surface is to apply and roll into it a thin
layer of torpedo sand. From Santa Barbara it is
reported that a very satisfactory play surface is
secured by merely topping their hard surfaced
grounds with cold oil and sawdust—at a cost of
little more than one-half cent per square foot.
Troy, New York, reports that about a yard of
limestone crusher dust sprinkled over the surface
of a clay court and thoroughly rolled binds well
and aids the drying out of the court after a rain.

One of the most important factors to consider
in improving a playground surface, especially
where the soil is either too heavy or too light, is
the proper testing of it. It is often possible to
improve play surfaces merely by the addition of
the prOper amount of sand or clay loam, depend-
ing upon the condition revealed by the tests. This
treatment is relatively
inexpensive, but the prop—
er amount and type of
materials to be added

 

Courtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

can be determined only after a study of the so' .
condition of the particular area. It is possible t ’
improve even coarse crushed stone surfaces b
adding the proper amount of stone dust, pud
dling, rolling and treating the surface with ca
cium chloride.

SURFACING UNDER APPARATUS

Special provision for surfacing is require
under and around certain types of apparatus i
order to avoid or reduce injury in case of fall
This is especially essential under such types .
the horizontal bar, trapeze, flying rings, hor
zontal ladders and other similar apparatus. It i
also advisable to provide a soft landing pit at t
foot of slides. The materials best suited for suc
use are tanbark, sawdust, shavings and sand
either alone or in combination—or light loa
spaded and raked frequently.

' r

If tanbark is used and the apparatus is co ‘
centrated it is advisable to excavate the enti I
area a few inches and set planks on edge aroun
the border before laying the tanbark to prevent
from being scattered. In San Francisco thre
inches of tanbark are laid on the bare ground und
the apparatus in the small children’s section.

is very light of Weight and springy, affor

 

San Francisco favors tan bark ing a cushion surface, packs Well and i
surface under apparatus. easily drained. The only maintenance r

quired is occasional raking to loosen th

SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS 281

urface, and the adding of more tanbark to re-
lace that which is worn. "This material lends 3.
ft reddish brown color which when properly
laced in wide areas having architectural form

(1 interest and orderly appearance in a general
layground pattern. The color contrasts especially
~ 'ell with the blue-gray of limestone screenings
sed as a border within the fenced portion where
pparatus is placed, these two colors contrasting
n turn with dark green foliage masses with light
; een lawn strips bordering stone or cement walks
utside the fence.”

As a rule the regular playground surface is laid
round such types of apparatus as the see-saw,
iant stride and traveling rings. The area under
he swings, however, affords a problem since holes

re made under the swing seats unless a special
; rfacing is laid or frequent maintenance is pro-

ided. In a few cities a large concrete slab is laid
nder the entire swing area but this not generally
pproved because children falling from the swings
re likely to be injured on the hard pavement.
‘ urthermore it is very expensive. In other cities
: strip of concrete some ten inches wide and four
0 six feet long is laid under each swing. Al-
hough it prevents holes, the objection has been
aised that children are likely to be hurt in falling
n the edges or corners of the concrete slabs

'hich require care to keep them flush with the
round. Experience does not favor their use.

A method which is reported as successful is to
ink in the ground under each swing a creosoted
"on" plank several feet long which prevents
'oles from being dug in the surface. The edges
-. d corners are rounded so as not to injure a
ild falling on the plank. Bituminous surfaces

e sometimes used. Another suggestion has

en made that a narrow ditch be dug under the
'ne of swings and filled with gravel so as to
. rain the ground under the seats and prevent the

ater from collecting there. In any case the

' ound under the swings and around other types

apparatus requiring no special surfacing should

i~ free from protruding rocks and all other ob-

' uctions and care should be taken to prevent the

-rmation of holes which not only collect water
t are likely to cause accident.

COLORING CONCRETE AND ASPHALT
SURFACES

An objection frequently raised to concrete sur-
ces is that they have such a glare as to make
ay on them annoying and difficult. This has been
iminated in several cities by the use of mineral

pigments. For example, in Oak Park, “after con-
siderable experimenting we chose a light shade of
red because it is in pleasing contrast to the green
and shrubbery and because it provides a playing
surface that does not reflect bright sunlight.” The
pigments are mixed with the concrete in the wear-
ing surface. In Mariemont, Ohio, battleship gray
coloring was added in mixing the final wearing
surface at the rate of about four pounds per bag
of cement. Two pounds of lamp black for each
bag of cement were added to the surface finish of
concrete courts in Pasadena. Six or eight pounds
of chromium oxide per bag will give a dark green
color, but this has a tendency to fade, according

to reports.

As noted in some of the specifications in this
report, cement, sand or colored slate granules are
sometimes spread over the wearing surface of as-
phalt courts in order to give color or to lighten the
surface. Difficulty in obtaining a satisfactory col-
oring has been reported in one city.

Marking Lines .
An advantage of asphalt and concrete courts 18

that lines marked upon them last for a long time.
White lines are generally used on asphalt surfaces
and they may be painted on with white road paint.
“It is wise to first apply a coat of aluminum paint
to keep the asphalt from reacting on the white
paint and causing it to turn yellow.” It has also
been suggested that a coat of shellac before paint-
ing the lines causes them to last longer.

Permanent lines may be obtained in a concrete
surface by having the cement trowelled out the
proper width and about one-half an inch in depth
and by filling these lines with white cement and
white sand, if white lines are desired. If the lines
are to be colored, proper materials may be mixed
in as previously described.

Surfacing costs . ' o
It is obwous that unit costs for various kinds

of surfaces cannot be given because of the differ-
ent scales of local prices of materials, labor costs,
soil conditions affecting cost of excavation and
amount of subsurface required, and various other
factors. In reporting costs, some of these factors
are often overlooked or certain items are omitted
entirely. In the case of special game courts, re-
ported costs sometimes include cost of enclosures.

The following table of reported costs is pre-
sented, not as a definite guide to estimating local
surfacing costs but rather as indicating the
amounts which have been spent in several cities
for the construction of various types of surface.
The asterisk (*) indicates that specifications for
or information concerning the particular type of
surface is given in this report. It is assumed that
fencing costs are not included unless specified.
The costs are for 1930 or 1931 unless otherwise
indicated.

282 SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS

PLAYGROUND SURFACE

  
  
     
  
   
   
  
    
     
  
  

Type of Surface City Cost

Top Soil * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cincinnati, Ohio . . . . . . . . . .$ .80 per sq. yd.

Limestone Gravel * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cincinnati, Ohio . . . . . . . . . .$2.97 per sq. yd. .

Rock Screenings * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Wilkes-Barre, Pa. . . . . . . . . .The finished surface (including hauling, sprea
ing, sprinkling and rolling) should cost $.27-.
per sq. yd.

Slag Screenings on Cinder Base . . . . . . . . . . . Cleveland, Ohio . . . . . . . . . . .$ .72-1.20 per sq. yd.

Bituminous * (on Concrete Base) . . . . . . . . Cincinnati, Ohio . . . . . . . . . .$3.10 per sq. yd.

Cushion Surface * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Indianapolis, Ind. . . . . . . . . . .$1.35 per sq. yd.

Cork Asphalt * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Brookline, Mass. . . . . . . . . . .On jobs from 300 to 2,000 sq. yds. from $2.

$3.00 per sq. yd. The cost of surfacing its

(1” thick) about $1.50 per sq. yd.

Colas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bronxville, N. Y . . . . . . . . . . .“The average installation would run about $2.
per sq. yd.”

Cinder-mix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Des Moines, Iowa . . . . . . . ..“For purposes of estimation I would say t
$.80 to $1.00 per sq. yd. would cover all co

of grading and surfacing.”

Kyrock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Harrisburg, Pa. . . . . . . . . . . .$1.15-1.25 per sq. yd.

T‘arvia—lithic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Union County, N. J. . . . . . ..$1.29 per sq. yd.

Colas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Union County, N. J. . . . . . . .$1.31 per sq. yd.

Tarvia-lithic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Newark, N. J. . . . . . . . . . . ..$1.33 per sq. yd.

Sawdust Cushion* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..T'ampa, Florida . . . . . . . . . ..$ .74 per sq yd. (using dept. labor)

Cushion Surface* (Oil and Sawdust). . . . . Santa Monica, Calif . . . . . . ..$ .45-.54 per sq. yd.

TENNIS COURTS—BITUMINOUS

Type of Surface City Cost
Cut-Back Asphalt or Tarvia . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Rockford, Ill. . . . . . . . . . . . . .$l,000. to $1,200. per court.
Asphalt—Penetration Oil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Pasadena, Calif. . . . . . . . . . ..A standard size court with a chain link fe
costs approximately $700.
Westphalt A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Detroit, Mich. . . . . . . . . . . . ..$1,350. (approx.)
Sheet Asphalt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Detroit, Mich. . . . . . . . . . . . ..$ 910.-1,100. (approx.)
Concrete . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Detroit, Mich. . . . . . . . . . . . ..$1,350. (approx.)
Kyrock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Detroit, Mich. . . . . . . . . . . . . .$1,45'0. (approx.)
These figures are ba
on total costs of layin
Colas_  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Union County, N. J. . . . . . ..$1,575.69 per court battery of four cou
Tarv1a-11th1c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Union County, N. J . . . . . . ..$1,560.81 per court two of each type .
they include fencing .
_ equipment costs.
Sawdust Cushion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Orlando, Florida-4928 .. . .$400. per court (2 courts)
Sawdust Cushion * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Tampa, Florida—1928 . . . . .$350. per court (2 courts)
Bituminous * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Cincinnati, Ohio . . . . . . . . . .$3,000. per court
(011 Concrete Base) (This price represents total cost includ
fence, gates, posts, etc., in battery of four.)
Flex-I-Dry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Springfield, Mass. . . . . . . . . .Cost of materials is $450. per court with su

vision for building where two or more cou
are constructed at one time. Expense for c
ders labor and drainage not included. To

1

cost may run up to $1,500. per court.

Concrete . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Pasadena, Calif. . . . . . . . . ..“A standard size court with a chain link fe
costs approximately $1,500.”
Concrete . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Minneapolis, Minn. . . . . . . ..Four courts with backstops cost approxima
1927 $6,000. or $1,500. per court.

“Har-tru” . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..One court—$1,450. plus two adjacent co
$2,550., approximately $1,000. per court for :
cavation and preparation of base.

RESURFACING COSTS—TENNIS COURTS

Type of Surface City Cost
Concrete . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Oak Park, Illinois . . . . . . . . .$1,100. on old court of clay or limestone scr
ings; $1,000. per court in a group of three.
Sheet Asphalt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Reading, Pa. . . . . . . . . . . . ..Four old clay courts resurfaced at total cos
_ 1931 $2,538.95 or $634.74 per court.
RubICO Red T0p Dressing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Westfield, N. J. . . . . . . . . . ..Materials—$100 f.o.b. Labor—one day of

- skilled labor.
Crosco Road 011 Sawdust . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Santa Monica, Calif. . . . . . .$.10 per sq. yd.

-4.

SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS

.COMMENTS ON VARIOUS PLAYGROUND
SURFACES

The following are a number of comments from

recreation ofhcials with reference to their experi-
ence with different types of surfaces:

bouth Parks, Chicago, Illinois

"In one of our larger small children’s playgrounds, we

,have sod surfacing. It is undoubtedly the ideal surface,
ut it can be maintained—even under the feet of small
hildren—only because the ground is a large one for the
ttendance. It is not practical for the small grounds to
ttempt a sod surfacing, nor for those where extremely
eavy use is a probability.
“We have tried sifted cinders, but they are sharp,
ush into dust, which is dangerous to the eyes when
. owing about the grounds, and their black grimy color
ijs objectionable. \Ve have used crushed limestone, but it

Courtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

    
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  

i consider it a satisfactory surface.

“We have put a light coating of

rpedo Gravel or Granite screenings, 1/16 to 93 screen,
ut one stone deep, over heavy black loam. The black
m cuts under the gravel, however, and makes a dusty,
se surface which is objectionable. \Ve have treated
' surface with light road oil, in an effort to hold the
t down, but the road oil makes a grimy condition
ich blackens the hands and faces of the children, gets
0 their clothing, tracks into buildings, and is gener-
. unsatisfactory.

‘O

'D
{I
’l
i.

We have tried cork brick under apparatus, but dis-
tinued its use; our recollection is that the objection

to this type of surfacing was that it heaved during the
winter. At least there was some objection which made
the continued use of this sort of surfacing unadvisable.

“For a time we also tried granulated slag. It had a
tendency to harden, however, and it also was discontinued.

“Our present surfacing in most of our grounds is the
result of some 25 years of experiment, therefore, and
while we do not claim it to be an ideal surface, I have
no hesitation in saying that it is the best that I know
about. . . . .

“This type of surface has several advantages. It is
springy under foot, and yet it has a granular texture on
the surface to provide secure footing. \Vith the calcium
chloride, it remains free from dust, and what dust does
blow up from it is not sharp and cutting if it gets into
the eye of a child, as cinders, for example, would be.
The appearance is pleasing. The children’s hands and
bodies do not show 'black where they have become soiled

 

cks too solidly, and is extremely Areas that are too small in pro- with contact with such a surface. The
bject to being blown about as dust. portion to attendance can be color does not attract heat as a black
also is glaring in color, and we do surfaced with loam and shavings, surface does, it remains cool and at-

tractive, even on a hot day, and con-
sequently does not mar the general
landscaping effect in a park which makes some preten-
sions to beauty of appearance.”

Pasadena Schools, Pasadena, California

“The surfacing that we use to best satisfaction in
Pasadena includes treatment with calcium chloride on
loam Surfaces and in certain field areas we provide turf
with a sprinkling system.

“\Ve favor concrete for tennis courts but for basket-
ball, volley ball and similar court areas the formula as
used by the Santa Monica City Schools we consider the

best.”

(I

283

284 SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS

Oak Park, Illinois

“These two concrete courts prove to be satisfactory
from both the playing and the maintenance standpoint
and as a result we have since rebuilt others until twenty-
four of the twenty-seven courts in our parks are paved
with concrete. . . . . Tennis players in Oak Park are

enthusiastic abOut our concrete courts.”

Mariemont, Ohio

“These concrete courts proved quite satisfactory. . . . .
After two seasons 9. pair of asphalt courts was built
adjacent to the concrete. The superior service of the
asphalt was evidenced by the desertion of the concrete
playing surfaces in favor of the asphalt. The real ob-
jection to the concrete when compared with the asphalt
was the hardness and slipperiness. . . . . Our experience
leads us to recommend the asphalt courts."

A Recreation Official of Wide Experience

“Cork asphalt is the best hard surface I have seen. It
is not hot in summer as the cork prevents that. There
is no ‘hard luck’ with it; does not crack, stretches and
stays put. It is not as expensive as concrete but better.”

Spokane, Washington

“The authorities of this Department like the asphalt
hot mix and it costs us just one-half as much as the Lay-
kold which costs us $1,000 per court. (Hot mix courts
laid by city asphalt plant).

Indianapolis, Indiana

“We have had five cushion playgrounds in service
through both summer and winter which have endured
through all types of weather. They have stood up well,
and we have had absolutely no trouble with this play-
ground. . . . . This yard has more than met the re-
quirements of the Physcial Education Department and
the Buildings and Grounds
Department. . . . .

   
 
 
    
  
    
    
   
   
 
   
 
   
  
 

very satisfactory after five years use.” From Stanfor

University. .
“Out here in the West we find Laykold very popul
for surfacing.” From Recreation Department.

Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

“We are replacing all playground surfaces as rapid
as money is available with the patented Kyrox. We ha
found it the best for playgrounds, tennis courts, voll
ball courts, etc. . . . . It has a degree of resiliency la.
ing in concrete. Although black in color, it is a cle
surface.”

Harrisburg, Pa. .
“\Ne have used Kyrock for playground surfaces, t

nis courts and pleasure driveways and in all cases it

proved to be a A No. 1, first class material.” a

Detroit, Michigan

“I do not believe that concrete is more satisfact
than Westphalt A and sheet asphalt because the concr
is too hard on the feet of the average tennis player. .
Westphalt A and sheet asphalt on the other hand .
more resilient and not so hard on the players and
general are much more satisfactory than concrete cou

“The Kyrock court is satisfactory but its cost is m I
higher than sheet asphalt. . . . . We discontinued Kyr
courts because they were too expensive and our expe
ence with tarvia was not satisfactory.”

Memphis, Tennessee

“The rock asphalt court has proved very benefi
from a maintenance standpoint. However, it isn’t
very popular with the players as the court gets hot .
is very tiresome on them. We have put in only .
gravel, sawdust and oil court by specifications of P
fessor Browne. This necessitates considerable work

it bleeds continuously .
sawdust must be thro

“We have been carrying
out our experiment for
over a period of ten years.
We have tried tanbark,
cinders, gravel, crushed
stone, and finally our own
designed ‘Cushion Play-
ground.’

“No children have been
injured where we have this
type of playground, while
any number of them have
been injured and infections
set in at schools having

tanbark, crushed stone,
etc. . . . .

“We have tried to color
these yards, “but we have
not been successful, as the

coloring materials fade."
Berkeley, California

“In 1926 we built eleven
courts (Laykold or bitu-
muls) and find them to be

Members of the Committee on Surfacing

L. R. BARRETT, Chairman, Director of Recreation,
Board of Education. Newark. N. J. ‘

W. L. QUINLAN, Supt. of Public Recreation, City
Hall, Tampa, Florida.

W. H. BOWLES, Supt. of Union County Park Com-
mission, Administration Building, Warinanco Park,
Elizabeth, N. J.

RAYMOND E. HOYT, Supt., Dept. of Playgrounds
and Recreation, City Hall, Los Angeles, California.

ERNST HERMANN, Supt. of Playgrounds, City
Hall, West Newton, Massachusetts. -

JOHN J. McCORMACK, Supervisor, Bureau of Rec-

reation, Dept. of Parks, Claremont Park, Bronx,
New York City.

*WILL R. REEVES, Director of Recreation, 328 City
Hall, Cincinnati, Ohio.

THOMAS LANTZ, Supt. of Recreation, City Hall,
Reading, Pennsylvania.

ARTHUR LELAND, Supt. of Recreation, City Hall,
Newport, Rhode Island.

JAMES A. GARRISON, Supt. of Recreation, City
Hall, Austin, Texas.

K. B. RAYMOND, Supt. of Recreation, 325 City Hall,
Minneapolis, Minnesota.

* Deceased

    
   
  
    
   
   
  
   
  

Over the surface.”

Oshkosh, Wisconsin

“I have been observ
playground surfacing
fifteen years and my -
periences dictate that
Milwaukee plan is the I
and the second, the So
Park System.”

Springfield,
Massachusetts

Commenting on Fle
Dry tennis courts that
been through one wi
season. “In the early 5
there seemed to be
heaving and the court
not come back to
original grade. It is
personal opinion tha
this should continue
season to season it v I
eventually unravel the
facef’

(Continued on page 3

 
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
   

At the 37th annual meeting oi the
American Physical Education Asso-
ciation held in Philadelphia last April,
Mr. Morgan, Editor, Journal of the
National Education Association, dis-
cussed three important problems. In
this very briel: digest of his paper we
are presenting the main points made
by Mr. Morgan. The complete address
may be Found in the June, I932, issue

of the journal of Health and Physical
Education.

' N what ways is the machine age affecting our
lives? (2)\Vhat changes should be made in
our ways of life in order that we may enjoy

e advantages of the machine age and avoid

s dangers? (3) What can you personally do

I improve conditions?

(I) The machine age has brought about an

creasing amount of leisure, a higher standard

f living, the concentration of population in

ties, the concentration of financial and indus-

ial power, and a change from active outdoor

: sedentary indoor occupations.

(2) As to the changes which should be made,

t us face the facts as they are. The machine

e is here. We may as well make a realistic

alysis of our situation and set ourselves

riously to work to find ways of adapting our-

' lves to it. We should face theifact that fewer

en working fewer hours now do the world’s

ork. We are approaching a time when the
ere providing of food. clothing, shelter and
ansportation must become a minor rather
an a major phase of human activity. We face

e need to distribute this work so that there

ill be a fair share for all. Our age must

velop a sense of economic justice in keeping

'th the new conditions. Preparation for lei-

re is one of the major educational problems

l

Physical Education and the Machine Age

By Jov ELMER MORGAN

Editor,Journal ol: the National Education Association

Washington, D. C.

of our day. The time has come when recreation must
be thought of as one of the major phases of education
for both children and adults.

America has the highest standard of living in the
world, but it is not high enough. Housing, education
and recreation must be expanded. The school of to-
morrow will be a community institution.

The concentration of population in cities
might easily be made an advantage rather
than a disadvantage if the cities were planned
for worthy living. The power which the ma-
chine gives may well be used to make our
cities centers of health and happiness for all.
Garden cities, such as Radburn, New Jersey,
which are growing up are prophetic. The city
of tomorrow will be planned around the home
as its center. The home itself will provide for
sun and light and fresh air. There will be
places for play, both indoors and out. There
will be an opportunity for gardens and neigh-
borhood activities. Schools and homes and
parks will be interrelated. These are some of
the more obvious changes that lie just around
the corner. They are of such vital importance
that they cannot be left to the uncertainties of
commercially-minded realtors. They demand
for their realization city. county and state
planning and a large measure of public finance.
_ The concentration and misuse of financial
power I believe to be a passing phase of our
civilization. In the end the masses will assert
themselves in one way or another. The pres-
sure of the ballot box and of vigorous public
opinion will counteract the tendency of those
who hold the great wealth to seek the control
of government itself. A new leadershp will arise

and in one form or another will assert itself.
(Continued on page 307)

285

Mental Health and Play

 a
.g‘ r ’ V
1
By "I  '
ESTHER L.RICHARDS,M.D.  1:34- I
Phipps Clinic  I
Johns Hopkins Hospita
Baltimore, Md. 3 I

Interest in the play life of the
young child is a matter of rel-
atively modern consideration.

individual life that has aroused so much dis-
cussion in the past and even during the
. present as the subject of play. The history of
play has never been written, but it would
make interesting reading. When it is written
it will doubtless be treated from the standpoint
of periods of civilization that have taken the
play life of child and grown-up seriously, and
periods that have adopted a casual and even
aggressively antogonistic attitude toward play.

The cultural epochs of classical periods of
history featured athletics as a definite part of
the education of adolescents. The building up

286

THERE is probably no topic of our group and

Courtesy Seattle Department of Park:

 

In that play provides satisfaction it i
salutary to the mental health of all childre

of the body was the Spartan’s way of prepar
ing its future citizens to resist conquest, t
reproduce hardy offspring, to master individ
ual emotions that might hamper the striving
of the group. The relation of diet to the build
ing up of bodily vigor was the forerunner
training tables for crew and football team
Play to the Greek boy meant a possibility
achieving distinction in Olympic games. Co
petitive struggle for physical prowess wa
idealized as a form of national achievement b
a race that was doing its best to resist theso
influences of Asiatic culture. There was not.
ing commercial about it, with betting on wi
ners, the paying of large salaries to profe
sional coaches and outstanding players. 1
photography had been known B. C. ther
would have been no pictures of baseball pla
ers signing $75,000 contracts for one seaso
Play in this period of history was a sport pu

     
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
 
 
 
  

l nd uncammercialized—open to all sorts and
| onditions of youth. The esthetic side of play

as not forgotten. Here in those early years
i eveIOped the dance which attempted to inter-

, ret the spirit of a national life.

\Vith the decadent period following the em~
. ires national play became commercialized to
ladiatorial combats in which man and beast
ndulged in orgies of bloodshed to satisfy the
ded tastes of the p0pulace. In the civilization
at followed the settling of Europe organized
y had little place except in the form of
olated activity such as tournaments and
usting. and even this had to be rationalized
r religious purposes to glorify saints and
nctify causes. There was something in the
mosphere of the Reformation that frowned
. play as a waste of time amounting to sin,
(1 this belief hung on to Christianity for
1ndreds'of years. It was particularly strong
the Puritan and Huguenot reactions, follow-
g these movements in their settling of this
ntinent.

England, and here and there a country on
Continent, quietly but progressively ig-
red Puritanical ideas of play, and have grad—
lly built up a wonderful heritage of whole-
me traditions about sports and games. Eng-
d, perhaps more than any other country
s grasped the meaning of the relaxing as-
cts of play. England plays as a nation be-
use it enjoys play. The Englishman whether
‘ golfs or plays tennis or races horses does it
cause he likes it. He learns as a boy in
hool and university and on the village green
take up some form of play, and as he grows
der he turns to his play as a respite from the
rden and heat of the day. He is not after a
ampionship. Year after year we take his
chting and golf and tennis trophies from
‘ , but he still keeps
od-naturedly on — en-
ing the game and not
* prize. It is a magnifi—
t spirit. No nation has
'ered as the English
ve suffered during the
fifteen years, and no
ion has done so little
aning and whining.
ey have taken their
ses and personal be-

MENTAL HEALTH AND PLAY

"In times like these invest in boys and girls.
Men talk about buying stock at the bottom.
When you invest in a boy or girl you are
always buying at the bottom. You are sure
that the youngster is going up and there is
no telling how-far. "I invite every man and
woman in America to take a flyer in Child-
hood Preferred. I predict a great future for
this security. It has investment merit com-
bined with the most exciting speculative
possibilities. You are sure to get a man or
a woman; you may get a great man or a
great woman."—Brucc Barton.

287

reavements, and the torturing uncertainties of
empirical collapse with an equanimity and
grace unequalled by any people I know of.
And I think this spirit is the result of an emo-
tional balance learned in childhood through

the educational possibilities of a real enjoy-
ment of play.

It is by reason of these facts of the past and
the urgency of our needs of the present that
the psychology of play is coming to be a t0pic
of practical interest to us all.

Psychology of the Early Play Life

The mental health aSpects of play may be
roughly divided into two main trends: the
first has to do with the role of play variously
organized in deveIOping the coordinative
mechanisms of child and adolescent and grown-
up and training the intellectual controls of the
organism through planning and judgment and
well-timed inhibitions; the second has to do
with the role of play in'supplying pleasurable
and relaxing satisfactions that are so desper-
ately needed in educating a human being to
emotional maturity. It is, of course, quite
impossible to separate these two roles in any
given child or grown-up. But I feel that it
is the latter aspect which deserves to be the
major goal of educational strivings. Research
in the psychology of the pre-school child has
focused considerable attention on the possibili-
ties of play in the creative development of the
child. It has found that imitation and repeti-
tion are two great outstanding characteristics
of the early play reactions. These reactions
function at the level of natural activities.
Action is the keynote of behavior. The activity
of childhood has always registered on the en-
vironment of home and school in a very posi‘
tive manner. The activities of children were
in the past considered desultory annoyances
accompanied by noise and
restlessness which we
grown-ups either ignored
with as much Christian
patience as possible. or
else tried to subdue with
reprimands and exhorta-
tions that aimed to estab-
lish what we called better
conduct patterns directed
towards making the child
sit still, to stop talking all

288 MENTAL HEALTH AND PLAY

the time, to be less egotistic—in short, to be‘
have in such a way as to give us a little peace.
Wise parents and teachers caught on to the
fact that if they gave the child something to
do, or turned him loose in a playroom or out
of doors he was happy. But until compara-
tively recent times we have given little thought
to directing the child’s activities.

A child wants to carry out himself all the
activities he sees going on around him, and
having once done or said a thing in a given
way he wishes to do it' and say it again and
again. Our recognition of this has resulted in
supplying him with all the toy-sized imple~
ments he sees used by grown—ups. Go into a
nursery school and see the pleasure which
eighteen-month and two and three and four-
year-olds get out of chairs that fit them, toilet-
equipment that they can reach and manipulate
for themselves—doll beds that can be made
and unmade, brooms and dust clothes which
they can use, nails and garment hangers in
rows near the floor. Compare the ease with
which orderly habits of hygiene and living can
be taught to children so surrounded with the
irritations and nagging that ensues when these
little creatures are dependent upon grown-ups
to lift them up to do this or that, to hand
things down to them, to have their hands
washed and their teeth brushed and their
clothes hung up. By the time John and Mary
are big enough to reach all these things for
themselves, they hate the whole business of
washing and hanging up clothes and keeping
their possessions neat and orderly. Again, the
use of hammer and nails and scissors, so de—
structive to environment of the past, have
great creative possibilities under a little direc-
tion and encouragement and guidance. The
development of space perception and space
concepts can be brought out through play-
ground apparatus of swings and teeter boards
and jungle gyms of appropriate size, whereas
these OUtfltS were formerly viewed as danger-
ous. Accidents are rare in nursery school and
kindergarten because the child learns to use
his body constructively, and at the same time
he is enjoying the experimenting.

The next step in the education of a child’s I
sensory and motor capacities is that which has

to do with an attempt to express what we

might speak of as esthetic creativeness. First H

he makes things that are useful to play with
then he begins to make things he likes to loo '
at. We have paid little attention to studyin
this aspect of child nature. There is no doub
but that children at a very early age thin
about what does and does not look beautiful
They notice and absorb tones of voice and ex
pression of faces, and combinations of colo
and sound. In other words, they think abou
what they see and hear, and begin then an
there to form standards of esthetic apprecia
tion which are carried all through life. Thi
thought life most frequently takes a dramati
form of expression in the acting out of a- stor
told, or a song heard, or the bodily reproduc
tion of any rhythm. Children vary greatly i
their ability and willingness to express thei
creative instincts, and it is most important tha
parents and teachers should not force the chil
to develop faster than he shows enjoyment i
developing. It is so natural for an enthusias
tic grown-up to think he has discovered a tal
ent for music or drawing or poetry or manu
skill, and feature this supposed talent to th
exclusion of the great range of interests tha
await a latent birth. The small person ma,
feel that he must produce in order to keep u
to expectations, or he may become timid an
embarrassed and cease to express himself a
all. Self—consciousness must be avoided at a
costs. The prodigy is rare; the child with va
ried capacities for enjoyment and satisfactio
is dirt common. Spread as many opportuni
ties for constructive development before hi I '
as possible, but do it in a casual and inconspic
uous manner. In other words, let enjoymen
and a feeling of satisfaction determine th
quality and quantity of the earliest play life, an
you may be sure that subsequent years will tak
care of themselves. It is the pleasurable and r
laxing ingredient of plav that constitutes i
greatest contribution to good mental health.

I have dealt at considerable length upon th
psychology of the early play life of childhoo
because of its great importance in the growt
of permanent and durable satisfactions in lat
life. There is a popular idea that an adolesce
who has never played can suddenly be thru.
into-a camp or boarding school and learn a
about it in a week or two. I am a believer i
summer camps, but there would be 'mo
happy children if some little campers could
gathered up with families in mountain or se

 

   
  
   
  
    
    
 
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
   

de home and enjoy themselves without sched-
les and routines. A nine—year-old boy who is
ost skillful in the use of carpenter tools and
good auto mechanic already wrote me last
ummer, “This is the first minute I’ve had to
rite since I came, because I’ve been so busy
I oling away my time up here.” He had been
‘ lay modeling and trying to reproduce land-
apes in water colors. A girl of thirteen wrote
e last week, “Please ask father and mother
ot to send me back to that stupid camp again
‘ is summer. I know how to do everything
cy have, and I’d much. rather stay home and

l

er and salve any parental conscience they
my have about summer plans for their chil-
ren by putting son and daughter in expensive
mps. There is something wrong with these
'0 camps if bright, active children are bored

ith them.

Organized athletics for high school and col-
ge has won recognition, but parent and school
terest in systematic play is still in its in-
ncy. Yet every public and private school
_ hich has tried
e p la t o o n
stem, or its

uivalent in
l ternoon play
r young chil-
ren, has never
andoned it
'cept for lac]:
money. But
is in adoles-
nts, perhaps,
t we see the
suits of time
n d m o n e y
cut on  Courtesy Hope Farm, Verbank, N. Y.

we do not

it in the young child.
1e beginnings of adoles-
nt play were found in cal-
henic and gymnasium work.
y impression is that this form of physical
rcise was very unpopular—in fact so un-
pular that it is being replaced as far as pos-
' le by group games and dancing and the op-
. nal substitution of formal athletic exercises
th squash and fencing and tennis and bowl-
. I recall with pain the gymnasium periods

l

ad.” Her parents go to Europe every sum-.

 

One value of the team game is that it
calls for the "submerging of individ-
ualism for the good of the group."

MENTAL HEALTH AND PLAY 289

of preparatory school and college. The con-
scientious girl went through them from a sense
of duty. The rebel haunted doctors’ ofiices to
get excuses. There was no fun in any of it.
In fact, it was all a horrible bore. \Vhen
spring and fall ottered opportunities to try out
for the few teams that existed, only the stars
had a chance. Mediocrity never played, but
was supposed to sit on the field and root.

There was no basketball, soccer and hockey for
everybody.

Role of Play in Supplying Satisfactions

Today a great change has taken place, and
there is a chance for every high school boy and
girl to play some kind of a game. It is in the
game and the dance that the element of great-
est relaxation and diversion lies. It consti-
tues something to strive for, to be interested
in. It brings out the finest qualities in human
nature that call for the controlling of impulses,
the submerging of individualism for the good
of the group, the cultivation of a sense of re-
sponsibility for the achievement of a unit of
which one is a
part. In fact, the
development of
a sense of fair
play is some-
thing which ed-
u c a ti o n finds
very hard to do,
and it is in
clean sport that
o u r greatest
helpfulness lies.
I have seen
athletics make
over adolescent
material that
seemed quite
hopelessly unstable.

For example. in February
1922, Joseph, aged 7 years,
was brought to us by his
mother at the suggestion of teachers because
he was excitable, trembled at every sound,
was so afraid going down the Bay on an
excursion that he make a scene on the boat.
He was the only boy of four children who
lived in a crowded house on a small dirty street
near the water front. The mother was careless

290 MENTAL HEALTH AND PLAY

 

Courtesy Hope Farm, _Verbank, N. Y.

in appearance, noisy and overtalk-
ative. There was nothing for him
to do if he did go out of the house.
The school playground was a crowd-
ed yard. He was miles from a park. Joseph
struggled on through school, began repeating
grades at 12 years and continued to do so till
he left school at 14 years in the 7th grade. In
1928 he g0t his first job as a shipping clerk’s
helper at $10 a week. He was laid off at the
end of a year. His second job was helping an
auctioneer for five months, and he has been in
his third for two years, earning $11 a week.
From a puny, nervous, irritable, whining boy
of seven, Joseph has grown in the last ten
years into a large, husky, fearless chap, well
liked by employers and steady in habits.
When asked about himself and the change in
him, Joseph says that he began to be different
when he got interested in athletics after leav-
ing school. He never got any chance to play
till junior high school, but he continued it after
leaving school, made a local soccer team, has
become skillful in boxing, and plays baseball
spring and summer with no small distinction.
He has the intelligence of a child of twelve
years, and he will never have any more. But
Joseph is as well—balanced an adolescent as
one can find in these days. He is dependable,
steady, and carries responsibility far beyond
his intellectual capacity.

Joseph found his salvation in play by chance.
What if we had opportunities in our public
school systems to offer thousands of other
boys and girls like Joseph a real opportunity
to find emotional stability in wholesome play!

Play is a most important ally
in helping growing personal-
ities to enioy group contacts.

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

The mentally retarde
and dull normal adoles
cent needs this form 0
education as much as, i
not more, than his intel
lectually normal compan
ions, but physic‘al educa
tion hardly ever reache
him before he leave
school, because physica
education is arranged t
begin with the junio
high school period, an
these children never ge
there.

For many years now w
have arranged things a
School No. 76 in Balti
more, so that these re
tarded and dull norma
children at twelve'year.
of age divide their school time between forma
classroom work, athletics and shop work. The
take their team work with the intellectually
normal boys and girls. As you see them play
ing side by side it is impossible for even th
keenest observer to detect the retarded from th
normal in the judgment and poise and sports-
manship shown. They have no special privi—
leges. They hold their own with a conscious
ness of perfect equality in competition. Pla
furnishes for them the educational opportuni
ties of achievement in which the individual
feels that he is accomplishing something tha
is worthwhile. Formal school programs fo
the retarded and the dull normal are weak i
the sense that they do not furnish activity tha
the adolescent can experience success in. Th
greatest factor in the growth and develop i
ment of a human being is his consciousness o 1 '
experiencing satisfaction in the thing that h
does. Satisfaction in the thing done is far mor
salutary to mental health than strivings afte I
the thing dreamed of and contemplated i |
fantasy. i

I

But if play is a balancing factor of the per 
sonality to the retarded and dull normal chilr '
groping for a sense of accomplishment amon
the bewildering impossibilities of school life, i
is of even greater importance to the child an
adolescent who finds group contacts difficult
I refer to the timid, seclusive, reticent, stand
oftish boy and girl who find it hard to mingl

' i

MENTAL HEALTH AND PLAY 291

'ith others and do not

now how to begin.

ometimes they c o m e

0m homes where fathers
. nd mothers feel that the
'ommon herd is not good
nough for their child,
nd pick on this and that
Ompanion as not quite
1itable. They bemoan
e fact that they cannot
’ nd son and daughter to
rivate schools, and take out their regret in
I iting the child’s associations. They encour-
e solitary recreations such as swimming.
oller skating, bicycling. '

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
    

I recall a 12-year—old girl with the intelli—
ence of an average adult who has been
ushed to skip grades and get ready for college
arly. The mother brought her because she
. draped around the maternal parent, depend—
g on her study with her, to supply her
musements, to cater to her whims. And
other is thoroughly fed up with it all now.
his girl has a pitiful scorn of her public
hool companions. She has never played a
ame in her life. She recently stole off to play
and ball with an Italian schoolmate on a va-
nt lot. She backed out into the street, col-
(led with an automobile and suffered a Pott’s
acture of the ankle. It is held up to her as
judgment of Heaven upon her disobedience

associating with a forbidden playmate.
gain a boy of thirteen comes with his parents
ecause he stays away from home, steals
oney to go to movies and neglects his school
ork. Inquiry into his story reveals the fact
at he has been denied all play life, and not
lowed even to attend ball games. Boy. Scouts
e frowned upon as beneath the family dig-
ty. His recreational life is at zero. His
ther and mother had none as children, and
~ no need for him to have any. A colored
rl of 11 is taken into the juvenile court for
aying on vacant lots at late hours. Her
andmother never wants the child out of her
ght.

I

Here is a rich field for parent education, and
is practically untouched by the experts.
ome and school have their greatest point of
nmon interest in the play life of child
(I adolescent. In a school that acts as a

I

“More than any other group in the public
schools the child of superior intelligence
needs a good recreational program. Recrea-
tion is a powerful factor in personality de-
velopment,and no school can consider itself
efficient in the education of the superior
child that does not make extensive use of
the benefits of recreation ...Adequate rec-
reation during adult life is essential to
continued success, and the ability to enioy
recreation requires development from early
childhood."—Bruce B. Robinson in Under-
standing lbc Child, June l932.

community center of its
district in Baltimore I
have seen parent educa-
tion blossom as the rose
through the medium of
gymnasium and outdoor
playground. Fathers and
mothers and even grand-
mothers have their bas-
ketball teams of a winter
night. Make athletic fans
out of the grown-ups of
the family, and you will have no trouble in
managing the children.

The Scout movement in this country is in
my opinion one of the mosr wholesome expres-
sions of education we have in our midst. \Ve
have found in our Psychiatric Dispensary that
if we can sell the Scout idea to fathers and
mothers we have got at the root of their so-
called disciplinary problems. It is of compara-
tively little use to preach honor and a. sense
of fair play and a feeling of social responsibil-
ity for property rights and the upholding of
law unless we can get this over to the growing
indivdiual in terms of how a group feels about
it. We are gregarious, not solitary, in our
thinking and action. \Ve have respect for
what the group does; we subscribe to their
codes; we want social approval more than any
other one thing. A boy .or a girl who becomes
a good Scout is a person whose ideals are
sandwiched with opportunities for the expres-
sion of wholesome ideals. To the Scouts 1
turn more and more for a practical re-educa-
tion of faulty habits of social organization,
and for a building up of those principles of
square shooting which must lie at the bottom
of good citizenship. It is most important that
our Scout leaders—men and women—be care-
fully picked not as technicians of play, but as
wise and enthusiastic leaders of an idealism
practical enough to appeal to sturdy youth.
Sentimentality and moralizing will never help
anybody. 'We learn only from action, and
grow through the trial and error method of our
mistakes.

Play and Personality Development

The field of group play is confronted by a
challenge of educational possibilties hardly
yet realized. From the standpoint of formal

—.— ‘_-'__\_

292 MENTAL HEALTH AND PLAY

pedagogy physical education is still in the
step-child stage of existence. It is tolerated
in some places; it is featured in others; but its
possibilities are, in my opinion, nowhere rec-
ognized as they should be. The playground
is a great laboratory of behavior which is not
contributing to research as it should, because
it is not given half a chance. Nowhere on
school cards of academic or health import does
one find data about how the child and adoles-
cent behaves—unless he commits some fla-
grant breach of bad manners. Yet careful ob—
servation of behavior here would constitute
valuable information concerning the mental re-
actions of boy and girl. Prowess expressed in
the winning of prizes and the carrying off of
championships is recognized as it should be,
but there are other matters of just as great
importance. The timid, cowardly, yellow per-
former is material that should not be over—
looked.
I recall a puny, little Jewish boy referred to
me by his teachers because of great uneven-
ness of work. On individual and group intel-
ligence tests he ranged from 126 to 140 in. his
I.  In shop work he hardly did a thing. It
took him three weeks to do a job that other
boys would do in a few days. I followed him
to the playground and learned from his teach-
ers that he was absolutely no good. He never
held his own in a game. He would dodge
about and.punch some boy in the stomach or
pinch his leg, and then dart away when retri«
bution was imminent. His fellows hated him.
If he was licked he ran howling to the teacher.
I talked with him about it, and discovered that
he regarded shop work and playground as a
“waste of time.” “Why should I make things
with my hands? My fathei wants me to be a
lawyer; my mother wants me to be a doctor.
I should not spend the time in play. You get
hurt and have doctor bills. I should better
stay in the library and read.” It was not hard
to tell where his views originated. The par-
ents were quite honest and sincere in instilling
in Jacob’s mind the idea that education meant
learning things out of books that would help
Jacob make a better place for himself in the
world than his father and mother had. Here
was a little problem in Americanization that
could start at the simple level of human rela—
tionships on the playground. And Jacob was

distinctly worth the effort of saving from a
one—sided professionalism.

   
    
   
 
   
   
     
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 

Psychology is telling us a great deal abo
the introverted type of personality, °
proneness to bend and break beneath t
strains of adult life. A great question bef
mental hygiene is whether we can make t
ingrowing personality out—going in its re
tions ; whether we can teach these individu
as children and adolescents to enjoy gr
contacts and relaxing. Play is our great
ally in such a process. I have in mind a li
boy of seven attending a private school, .
every afternoon at the approach of the pl
hour he got sick in his stomach. He wo
stand around the outskirts of a group
were playing, but would not take part.
day a teacher insisted. He was scared, a
ward, cowered under the noisy criticisms
his playmates. The next day Bob could not
found at 2 P. M. It was discovered that he
crawled into a large rug that had been rol
up in a store room adjacent to the gymnasi
There he lay on his stomach for over an ho
Now, one cannot force a child to play. I .
vised his teacher to let him hang around 1
playground with the understanding that he a.
not have to take part in a game unless
wished, and see if they could not bate him i
doing something. After a few months t
thing worked. Bob will never be a star, but
has learned to get a little pleasure out of ta
ing a minor part where he can be inconspic
ous and yet do something.

a:
:3
a.

Certain it is that we cannot do a thing wi
these “Bobs” if we get them too late. Nobo
realizes this better than we doctors who a
confronted with “nerves” in grown-up m
and women that represent that inability to b
ance the strains of work and care and domes
responsibilities by hours of relaxation in g
or bowling or riding. It is so easy to tell su
men and women to get out more, to cultiv
a hobby, to divert their minds and relax th
muscles, but such advice is wasted energy
less we have life-long habits of play to bu
on. We cannot grow interests in such thi
in middle life any more than we can grow h
on bald heads. Nature does not work that :

I have brought to you no new facts in t
paper. I did not expect to when I agreed
appear in your program. But I accepted I
invitation because ( as a representative of i
behavioristic sciences) I wanted to declare I
whole-hearted interest in the kind of educat

  
 
   
  
    
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
 

which you are engaged. In this economic
risis through which we are passing luxuries
e being cut out right and left from private
L (1 community and public welfare budgets.
' hat is as it should be. But we must be very
reful to differentiate between necessities and
. xuries. Physical education and playground
‘ ork are a necessity not a luxury, and this fact
as got to be put over to public consciousness.
cheering evidence of how we should feel in
egard to such matters was demonstrated in
e action of the New York City welfare or-
anizations on June 15th in their united at-
mpts to prevent cuts in the recreation activi-
'es of the Park and Education Departments’
udgets for 1933. They said, “Although we
alize the necessity for economy in the city
udget and the need for meeting the vital calls
.I the Treasury for relief in food and shelter
n r its citizens. yet we believe that the keeping
p of morale and the saving of children from
e inevitable consequences of idleness are of
' e greatest importance.” (New York Times—
, me 16th, 1932). Another fact of great sig-
. ificance is the report of the White House
onference on Child Health and Protection—
ection III—Committee E on Recreation and
c hysical Education. It presents a remarkably
lear and straight forward summary of what
. being done in cities and states in the way of
creational activities, and it puts its finger on
me very weak spots in organization. Among
ese are two very important faults:

  

1. The efficiency of programs of physical ed-
cation and recreation is at its maximum in the
condary school and college. It diminishes
. one goes back into the elementary school
d practically disappears in the early grades
(1 kindergarten. Yet 15 out of every 100
ildren entering the first grade leave school
the end of the 6th grade. This means that
l illions of children leave school with practi-

. ally no physical education and recreational
pportunities.

2. There are about 11,000,000 children in
ural schools in this country. Four millions of
\ ese are in one-room schools. One and one-
alf million leave school by the 6th grade.
hysical education and recreation even for
ose rural children who go to high school is
rdly a drop in the bucket compared with
portunities which city children have.

MENTAL HEALTH AND PLAY 293

Behind these inadequacies are need of more
funds and lack of adequate leadership.

Both of these deficiencies can come only-
when communities and states are educated to
the point of appreciating the physical educa-
tion needs of childhood. Not long ago, while
sitting at a board meeting of a child welfare
organization the question arose as to whether
we should send a delegate to attend a meeting
where the park and playground needs of our
city were being discussed. I was amazed to
hear the issue debated on the ground that such
work was not included in the province of our
organization. The men and women who took
this view are enthusiastic country club mem-
bers who regard their golf in the nature of a
divine right. Their children go to private
schools well equipped with play facilities.
They evidently have never seen the wretched,
barren, overcrowded, unequipped playgrounds
of our colored children. The crowded, unsan-
itary homes from which these children come
make the playground and school yard the
only spot where the energy of childhood and
adolescence can work itself off. Here is a
great strategic spot to attack delinquency and
social disease and tuberculosis, and all the
other ills that hover like harpies around the
lives of helpless childhood. Every dollar spent
in increasing recreational facilities of city and
rural community is at least a thousand dollars
saved for that city and rural community in its
juvenile and adult expenditures on physical
and mental health and the handling of its
crime.

The world of ours today is revolving at such
a terrific rate that our whole modern life with
its enormous development of machines and
techniques is filled with an unrest that con-
tinually uses up our strength without giving
us time for recovery. Are our diversions re-
creating or depleting? Do they help us in re-
laxing body and spirit. or do they constitute
new excitements and stimulations that merely
add to the strains from which we are trying
to escape? Here are questions with which the
behavioristic sciences of psychology and psy-
chiatry are struggling in their endeavor to un-
derstand the alarming increase in nervous and
mental disorders in our midst. The philosophy
of recreation has yet to be written, and the job
of tackling it lies at the door of our own rest-
less and strained. and discontented generation.

The Importance of Recreation for Teachers
and

In Teacher Training Institutions

By M. ERNEST TOWNSEND

principal, Newark state Normal school Why do teachers need a recreational progr
that will last them through life? Of course t1

reasons are personal and professional, but the
is no hard and fast line of demarcation betwe
the two aspects—for teachers—since what

Newark, New Jersey

HE development of a sound and well-balanced teacher is, personally, so greatly affects his pr
T interest in and knowledge of recreation is, fessional work. The reason is obvious, but I thi
or should be, of prime interest to the Teach- it is a good thing to remind ourselves that this

ers College and to the teacher himself, because it true, because teaching is really the basic indust
is an important of mankind in which we all e
ph ase of the gage at one time or another, r
whole field of Vi9°r°us games °”t‘°i‘d°°'5 5h°UId d° "we" gardless of what else we do. Wh

l: I: l: th ' -
We 0 coun eroc e bad effects of sedentary life one teaches tends to be somewh

personnel.
are, as teachers,

or as teachers of teachers,
more exclusively depend—
ent upon the complete in-
tegration of our total per-
sonality for success in our
profession than is the case,
in all probability, in any
other field. Regardless of
the amount of time and

effort teachers give to the I:
\ ,
I

“materia pedagogica” of ‘ --;       , ‘
their profession, the most I  " '
patent conditioner of suc-
cess lies in personality,
functioning smoothly, ef-
fectively and calmly. If
you admit that premise, '

> ‘ -
 ,M"""$§ my»,   3;; ,-t-L.;:

 

Courtesy Seattle Park Department '

then recreation becomes for the teacher not at all specil-icially colored by the total personality pa '
a desirable dream, but a professional necessity. It tern of the teacher as an individual.

is not too much to say that only to the extent that Cutting across these two basic sorts of reason
the entrant into teaching possesses both the the personal and the professional, for a sou '
knowledge of and personal desire to develop a recreational program for teachers we must ca
sound recreational program, will the entrant have sider now a number of “prime conditioner 1
reasonable expectancy of success in the field. which call for a recreative program.

294

ll

 
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  

l

l he head of a Normal Training School

ives his reasons for believing that
-.achers, for both personal and pro-
ssional reosons, need recreation.

l

Not being a recreation specialist, I am com-
elled to place my own interpretation upon the
l r0rd “recreation.” To me, recreative activity is
v at sort of activity entered upon voluntarily by a
rson for the implied purpose of stimulating and
directing his desire to be a complete personality.
is broader than play—it embraces the arts,
ultures and subtleties of existence. For that rea-
n I think of the pattern of action as a recreative
tivity rather than as “recreation,” since by some
nfortunate chance the latter word has come to
can to me rather definitely, physical recreation.
aving stated this I hasten immediately to dis-
ss that phase first.

he Teacher’s Need for Physical Recreation

Physically, the teacher leads a sendentary life.
e tends to do his work for the most part in-
ors, and much of this indoor work involves
iting, reading, long hours of library study,
iference, and the like. Like most other se-
itary, “indoor” workers, a teacher tends to
'sical lethargy, not so much by original desire
by the habits and the exigencies of his work.
e same applies even more directly to women
hers who have been found to be even more
lined to non-physical forms of vigorous work.
is so obvious as to be a truism that compara-
ly few teachers, men or women, have a sys-
iatic, habitual tendency to outdoor relaxation
(1 play. Now, to recreate themselves it is
ually obvious that" this tendency needs to be
ively fostered, first in the selection of students
I go into teacher-preparation who have evidenced
1ring high school a marked tendency to balance
ir day by out-door play; and then, after their
trance into the professional preparatory course,
build up delimiter a series of skills, habits, and
itudes strongly inclined to physical activity of
recreatlve natUre.

It has been brought out by Carruthers in his
dy, that the characteristic physical disabilities
teachers—laryngitis, colds, disturbances of the

THE IMPORTANCE OF RECREATION FOR TEACHERS 295

digestive system, and other ailments—are charac-
teristic of the disabilities of sendentary, “indoor”
persons. Teachers are not any more—nor proba-
bly not much less—lazy than other such workers.
On the whole, they stick too closely to their jobs
for the good either of the job or themselves. In
our institution, most of whose graduates will
teach in city schools, we try definitely to present
physical means of recreation of “life long” types.
80, although the men engage in team games of the
competitive sort, and the women as well, we give
much more attention to swimming, learning the
strokes of golf, archery, rifle practice, tennis and
the like. \Ve should do much more than we do,
in our Teachers Colleges, in the line art of hiking
and week-end camping, especially since, without
conscious direction, these tend not to be thought
of by the typical urban teacher.

For the teacher on the ob, the fun and zest of
outdoor, physical recreation not only adds to the
span of life and the enjoyment of it, with others,
but it also gives the professional teacher a much
sounder attitude toward the prime importance of
reviving the lost art of physical play in an arti-
ficial, urban civilization. All this comes only by
planning. The pity of it is that few teachers,
either alone or in groups, tend to plan for a part
of their days and weeks to be spent in physical
relaxation, exercise, games, in short—in recrea-
tion. I do not wish you to underestimate the
remarks just made concerning the deliberate
“recreational” selection of teacher-recruits, for
before the “way” is clear, there must be the

“will.”

The Cultural Thesis of Recreation

Then there is the cultural thesis of recreation.
Mentally, teachers fall easily into the habit—and
this is almost as true of college teachers as of any
other—of being informed rather narrowly upon
their own specialty. This is the inevitable penalty
of specialization. The pedant, the one who is
learned but not wise, who is narrow but not deep,
who has knowledge but not wisdom, is the bane
of our profession. Teachers are prone to lay
themselves open to this criticism. Recreative ac-
tivities of a sort to offset this special trend need
to be coldly calculated by the Teachers College,
and to be freely entered into by the student and
practitioner. The means come at once to mind:
a sensitivity to the most beautiful in art, music,
theatre; the opera; travel— not globe-trotting;
the forum; a keen, critical zest for the best of old

296

and new in literature. A catholicity of taste in all
these cannot be directly taught; it must come by
recreative experience. I despise the mere globe-
trotter, who gains his culture by the mileage book
or conducted “trip” alone, and so do you. I des-
pise the “bridge hound” to whom a discussion out
of his little field is only a bore! I shun the prat-
tle of the mere high-brow, who sees only the
“best” plays, and reads only the “best” books. We
need more intellectual vagabonds, who will rub
shoulders, who will browse and wander, and make
their own cultural discoveries, who will “recreate”
their cultural life by an insatiable curiosity about
the life of culture. The Good Lord save us from
the “cloistered purist”! Teaching has too many
of them, who either take the attitude that what is
contemporary must perforce be evil, or those
others who accept the present with bland and
stupid complacency.

From the Emotional and Ethical Points of View

Emotionally, recreative outlets for teachers are
not only as
important as
they are for ' .
the ordinary
adult worker,
but especially
important be-
cause of the
nature of the
t e a c h e r ’ 5
work. Human
engineering
and the whole
field of voca-
tional r ela-
tions have in
recent years
become very
much absorb-
ed in the task
of keeping the
worker emo-
tionally fit.
The work of
Bingham,An—
derson, Pat-
terson, Shillow, and others,
and the researches of
Laird and Thurstone, to
mention a few, are signifi-
cant. Teaching is a particularly “high-speed,”

Courtesy Detroit Department of Recreation

THE IMPORTANCE OF RECREATION FOR TEACHERS

 

Far more often than they do, teachers ought
to engage in physical recreation, as well as
In cultural forms of leisure time'interests.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  

artificial task. Its demands upon emotional st
bility are very great. Moreover, the effect of t
teacher’s emotional integrity upon his pupils
so far-reaching as to require especial attention
this characteristic. There are special hazards .
tached to the profession which demand a w
balanced recreational program to overcome.
fact that society is tending to put a probably
taken premium on women in the profession, .
that employers seem to consider the single w01
more of an asset than the married one, leads
the tendency, upon the part of many mat
women, to avoid the personal obligation for n
ma] emotional outlets of a social character wh

are desirable.

I realize this might be classed as a “delica
topic by the timid souls who have their so
ethics from a bygone age. But teachers are
prone to neurotic or even psychopathic conditi
for us to ignore the situation. It is not good '
our civilization to have this tendency so obviou

prevalent. While recreation alone may not 5
the prob]

undoubte c
beneht wi
arise from
provision
the individ
m a n a n
woman of v
profession
a normal
cial cont
with those
t h e oppo
sex. Perh
marriage c
not be clas
as a recr
tion, but m
riage may
recognized
‘ this count
as it is by
French, a
normal co
tion for a
teache
However that may be,
doubtedly the exclu
society of women
women, in recreation .
social life, or of men for men equally, is abnor

    
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
 

II
. d injudicious. So in the Teachers College, at-
I

ition, as a part of good personnel, should be
id to opportunities for social contacts between
I n and women through dances, theatres, and
er perfectly proper and legitimate planned
nctions which will at once result in discrimina-
.e ability and personal satisfactions of an en-
ring character.

Entirely aside from these considerations which
‘3 indeed bulk large in conditioning emotional
aracteristics, is the necessity for relaxation of
ch a sort as will provide safeguards against
azzled nerves, spells of moodiness, temper-
. itrums, petty hates and jealousies which sap the
ality of so many teachers and render their work
' effective. On the whole, teachers are too much
n the job" in many instances, without realiza-
n that part of that job resides in thst this
creative scheme which will leave them calm and
idisturbed in the pursuit of their work. Some-

e should present to us the mental hygiene of
: creation for in recreation we find the greatest
trument for a good emotional life.

Sociologically, and in the field of ethics, recrea-
n should again play a large part. Here again,
.~t chers, who should be the leaders and the inter-
eters of our social and ethical problems, have
‘ equently so few contacts of a voluntary sort
t 'th the forum, the discussion group, the inter-
ange of intelligent opinion which the complete
nversationalist excels in, that they tend to avoid
agreements on the intellectual level, or draw
cloak of silence which deceives no one but
mselves concerning their abilities. As a result
this, teachers as a class are, in America, the
t ones to whom the public turns when origi-
lity or courage is needed to advance the social
als. Recreative contacts will bring the catho-
ity of view, the depth of vision every teacher
(15. Study alone, in cloistered libraries, will
t accomplish the end.

Difliculties to Overcome

I have already brought to your attention, by in-
ence at least, some of the difficulties which
d in the way of developing for the teacher a
l-balanced recreative life. Let us briefly enu-
rate some of the more obvious ones.

First, we have not as a rule selected people to
into teaching at all with a view to obtaining
: se who give reasonable promise in this direc-
‘ 1. We cannot hope to start completely at the
l inning. The individual who proposes to teach

l

THE IMPORTANCE OF RECREATION FOR TEACHERS

must come possessed both of promise and experi-
ence in recreative life.

Second, for the teacher in service, inertia, and
poor professional planning for recreation is a ma-
jor factor of difficulty.

Third, community prejudices obtain in a ma-
jority of the situations into which the teacher is
placed, which prejudices have built up a feeling
that the teacher must be a paragon of docility,
virtue and colorlessness, which is more in keeping
with a life in a monastery than in a modern
dynamic civilization.

Fourth, the training experience, at least in the
case of those who have gone to Teachers Col-
leges, has been so meager in its opportunity for,
or its countenancing of, recreative life, that little
has been given the young practitioner except pro-
hibitions or warnings. '

The preponderance of unmarried women, who
do not look upon the teaching work as a life
career, is another difficulty.

Our need today is for a thorough appraisal of
the status of the recreative life of teachers. \Ve
need to select those who have demonstrated that
subtle independence and resiliency of life which
is evidenced by an already enduring recreational
pattern. \Ve need in our Teachers Colleges 3
definitely planned attack upon this phase of
“teacher preparation.” We need to foster, by all
legitimate means at hand, the revision of public
opinion and professional opinion as to the prime
importance of recreation as a professional asset.
We need to send our recruit into the teaching
field possessed of a well-balanced repertoire of
recreative skills, attitudes and habits. This will
not happen suddenly, but there is some evidence
that headway is being made.

OBJECTIVES OF SCHOOL RECREATION

A gymnasium and playground for every school.

The teacher fully trained and accredited in play
leadership.

The coach a member of the faculty.

Education for leisure. Training children in rec-
reation activities which will make adult life
more satisfying.

An intramural prOgrani for after-school hours.

A program that stresses sportmanship and ethical
conduct.

Opportunities for scouting and canipcraft.

Summer playgrounds with play leadership.

Provisions for adult recreation.

—Adapted from The Journal of Health and
Physical Education—March, 1930.

297

Recreation

By A. B. GRAHAM

Cooperative Extension Service
U. S. Department of Agriculture

Memories of happy play at home with
family and friends, are sustaining in-

fluences persisting throughout life.

MUSEMENTS, whether in games, music, draw-
A ing, story telling or reading are necessary
for the fuller development of children and
adults and to break the t'ediousness of the every
day program of activities. They help to prevent
emotional starvation.

“All work and no play
Makes Jack a dull boy"

is a maxim we have heard all our lives. But we
may with propriety add:

“All play and no work
Makes no boy at all.”

There are four agencies responsible for the de-
velopment and training of the citizen, whether
young or old; the home, the school, the church,
and society in general. It is so easy to cast the
responsibility from the home to the other three
and thereby lose an opportunity for comradeship
with our boys and girls at home.

Whatever the amusement or pastime it must
be suited to the age and taste of the individual.
The parent who joins with the child in play or
toymaking has introduced himself or herself into
the life of the child in a way With which no

298

133m 1‘ Recreation Commissioners, East Orange, N. J.

Hammering, sawing, nailing. to the accompaniment -
noise! Let boys make something and they’re happ

other interest will compare. It is the child’
world and on its plane of understanding.

In the earlier periods of life it finds itsel
doing the

“Pat a cake; pat a cake; baker’s man!
Bake a cake as fast as you can,

Pat it and roll it and mark it with T

And toss it in the oven for baby and me.”

Then a step beyond when astride father’s fo

it finds itself :

“Riding a cock horse to Banbury Cross
To see an old woman ride on a white horse.”

Toys purchased at a five and ten cent store se
dom develop the constructive power of the chi]
Sometimes it is the destructive. The Whirligig o
pin-wheel made from a square of stiff writin
paper and fastened to the end of a pencil or stic
is better than the multi-colored celluloid type; th
top whittled down from an ordinary spool an
spun by hand, from the standpoint of a su
gestion in construction is of more value than th
spring winding red painted and gold striped one
The pasteboard spiral on a wire on a stovepip
gives ample proof that hot air is going upwar
and opens up a world of wonder. The littl
wagon made from a spool-box and the make-be
lieve automobile, constructed from a soap box -
cigar box, excel all the store painted toy eig
cylinder cars. The rag doll is a favorite and t
play house a real home; the overcoat and a be
quilt or blanket may be a real tepee on the plai
to the child of any imagination. The building a
cob and stick 'houses, the making of the Ja
O’Lantern from a pumpkin, the dotting of ey

l/

 

!
I
i

f

RECREATION IN THE HOME 299

nd mouth in popcorn with a pencil to make
llnaginary faces is fun, not to speak of the train-
ng which may develop talent lying asleep.

Shadow pictures on the wall to represent a
car’s head by clasping one hand at right angles
cross the other, or to represent a squirrel, a
wan, etc., help the child to learn to supply de-
ciencies in the outline of shadow from a single
'ght.

The child that hasn’t ridden pick-a—back on fa-
her’s or mother’s back has missed one of the
oys of make-believe. How a youngster likes to
et above the head of its parent and touch the
L iling if possible! To don the clothes of their
ders is an addition to make-believe land.

Drawing is one of the most natural avenues
hrough which the child expresses himself. As
'ith language itself, it may take a bit of imagi-
ation on the part of the parent to interpret what
as been drawn sometimes, but crude beginnings
rust be made.

A yard of blackboard cloth, which costs about
; dollar, is worth many times that amount as a
lace on which to draw, and is much better than
rawing on the wall paper. W’hat the child de—
ires most is a place where it can draw with
arse lines and not in perfection of detail. De-
ails will come later. The load of sand in the
ack yard may develop a young sculptor, but if it
esn’t the joy of making mimic castles and tun-
ls is worth while, not to speak of the pleasur-
le sensation of
urying a foot or
. in the cool sand

of feeling the
tnd running over
I between the fingers and
es. Mud pies, animal forms
0

de from clay, mud houses.

- but an objective eXpres-
n of what the child sees.
iese are but phases of the

ative instincts of every

ild.
1rFortunate indeed is the farm
y who can throw an arrow

r the barn or tree with a
 otted string tied to a stick;

-. has a bow and arrow, or
10 possesses like David of

a sling with which to cast

stone at some imaginary
liath!

As for the girls, give them a chance
at their natural vocation, home making!

 

\V hat a mimicry of instruments can be secured
from a paper wrapped comb, the reed whistle
made from the stem of wheat straws, a blade of
grass stretched tightly between the thumbs or the
willow or leatherwood whistle. There are other
bits of mimicry, such as imitating the various
sound of animals, the yeap of a small chicken, the
popping of a cork from a bottle, and making the
nose crack apparently by twisting it as one grits
the teeth.

How well does the writer recall learning to
sing “The Little Brown Church” as sung by a
hired girl on the farm in 1874,: and from the lips
of his mother “Bobby Shafto’s Gone to Sea,”
“Old King Cole \Vas a Merry Old Soul,” and
several others. But one that is fresh in his mind
today was learned from a young father in 187
as he sang it coming from the meadow beyond ,the
orchard, “A Thousand Years My Old Columbia.”

The pleasure of winter evenings was added to
by father and mother joining in a game of “I
Spy,” or “Button-er Button, Who Has the But-
ton?” or “Fist Off,” the most interesting feature
of which is to determine who should be “It.”
Here the counting-out rhyme of Anglo-Saxon
origin was repeated, the reciter pointing to each

player in turn as a word was pronounced:

“Eny meny miney mo
Crack a fe ne fi ne f0

Apa duche apa duche
Ake bake ban doe.”

The use of strings to make “crow’s feet,” the
“baby cradle,” and to saw wood, rolled
up handkerchief bunnies, paper dolls cut
from folded paper all added variety to the

long evenings and rainy days.
(Continued on page 309)

Board of Recreation Commim'oncrr, East Orange, N. J.

 

Playground Clubs

The organization of certain playground activities on a club

basis is rapidly gaining favor among recreation officials.

N addition to the program of
I playground activities in St.

Paul with its roster of games,
athletics and handcraft and mu-
sic, the Bureau of Playgrounds
of the Park Department is stres-
sing another phase of child de-
velopment through the organiza—
tion of clubs for boys and girls
under the leadership of women
directors. Twenty-five such clubs have been or-
ganized for the purpose of promoting good citi-
zenship and fostering an appreciation of ideals
of service.

All the club activities, E. W. Johnson, in
charge of the recreation program, points out, are
governed by simply parliamentary rules. The
girls have as their club motto: “We believe that
all members of this club should work for the best
in girlhood,” The boys’ motto is: “Better boys,
better men, a better world to live in.” Club meet-
ings, which are very brief, are conducted each
week. After the business routine has been com-
pleted there follows a program of play activities.

To become a member a boy or girl must prom-
ise to work for the best interests of the play-
ground center with the purpose of making it a
strong factor in neighborhood life. Dues are
necessarily kept to a minimum, not more than
$1.00 a year, and proceeds derived from any
social events to which the community is invited
are expended on the improvement of the center.
The clubs have managed many social events, such
as ice-cream socials, parties, dances, the presen-
tation of plays, progressive game parties, and en-
tertainments. Special programs are prepared for
Memorial Day, Mothers’ Day, Hallowe’en, and
holiday celebrations. Hikes and picnics at the

300

"To discover the common inter-
ests oi the members of a club,
and to evolve a program based
on these interests; to sense
when enthusiasm for a subiect
is lagging; to decide whether to
continue a proiect or drop it,
require the utmost ski||."—From
“Clubs in Forty-eight Settle-
ments in the City of New York.”

  
   
   
   
  
   
    
    
   
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
   
  
   

various parks have given pleasur
to hundreds of children.

The Bureau of Playground
has p r 0 vi d e d shelter house
equipped with electric hot plate
coffee boilers, dishes and othe
equipment so that refreshment
may be prepared and served b
the clubs to the guests from thei
neighborhoods. The Bureau als
furnishes the materials for decorating the ce
ters. Contests have been held for the best decor
ated and most attractive posters with which t
adorn the walls of- the centers. Judges for thes
contests have come from art institutes and de
partments of interior decorating.

In every community center conducted by th
Bureau the clubs are doing a very const‘ructiv
piece of work. Parents are helping through so
called “booster” clubs organized in connectio
with the centers. These clubs have the same re
lationship to the playground centers which paren
teacher associations have to the schools.

Another phase of group organization which i
proving very fascinating is the Municipal Pla
ground Radio Artists Club. Any boy or girl i
the city is eligible for membership in this grou
whose purpose is to encourage talent, to develo
an appreciation of music, and to give pleasur
and entertainment to thousands of people t‘hroug
the channels of the radio. The motto is “to ma
good music popular and popular music good.
The club has a membership of 261 boys and gir
between the ages of six and eighteen years and
waiting list of 62. Soloists, tap dancers, pianist
readers and players on many kinds of instrumen
are among the talent oiifered. A 22-piece orche
tra, a 40-piece band and a gypsy chorus of o

PLAYGROUND CL‘UBS 301

girls, are members of the club which is furnishing

alent for programs, at orphanages, institutions,
gospitals and civic clubs. The Artists Club meets
'regularly the second and fourth Saturdays of the
'month for the transaction of business.

The clubs are playing a very important part in
'the development of the individual boy and girl
and there is evidenced a growing reSpect for the
rights of others, an increasing tendency to care
for public property, and a keener appreciation of
he significance of holiday seasons.

 
  
   

l

In a Southern City

On all playgrounds there are girls who are un-
‘able to play freely with children of their own age
because they are obliged to look after small
brothers and sisters whom they bring to the
grounds. To give these girls an opportunity to
play, a Little Mothers’ Club was organized last
summer on each of the Louisville, Kentucky,
playgrounds. Members of the club were assigned
each day to play with the children, and many of
the girls did excellent kindergarten
work with their small charges. In
a corner of one playground a group
of older boys and girls installed a
miniature sand box and doll furni-
ture for playground babies who
played all summer in “Playground
Junior” as the corner was called.
There are playground clubs for
he boys of Louisville, too. Peter
an and Hiawatha have come to life
t Thruston Square and each has
loyal following. They are in no sense competi-
ors, for Peter draws with him only the younger
hildren while Hiawatha picks up the boys and
akes Indians of them just where Peter leaves
f’f—at the adventurous age of nine. Members
f the Peter Pan Club meet every afternoon in
e recreation building from 3 :30 to 4:30. They
- 2 e their story acting, games. cut-outs and sing-
g with proper seriousness, especially the acting
ut of the Peter Pan story. The boys’ Indian
lub holds councils every Wednesday night and
. keenly interested in the making of bows and
r rrows and other handcraft projects.

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
 

I Clubs of All Kinds

Club organization is emphasized on the play-
rounds conducted by the Sheboygan, Wisconsin
‘ partment of Public Recreation. Among the
ubs organized last summer were boys' clubs,
: irls’ clubs, mothers’ clubs, clean-up clubs, hiking

Directors sponsoring inter-
club contacts, reports a
study at settlement clubs
in New York, ieel that by
giving a club an opportuni-
ty to see itself in relation
to other groups, by letting
it experience cooperation
and competition, and by
according to it whatever
prestige it merits, they are
contributing to its growth.

clubs, safety first clubs, and honor ctuos. Through
these clubs child leadership was developed, and in
many instances the children took charge of com-
plete programs presented on the playgrounds for
demonstration purposes.

Ukulele clubs were exceedingly popular last
summer on the playgrounds of Cedar Rapids,
Iowa. On one ground a group of boys specialized
in Negro spirituals and occasionally “blacked up”
for their concerts.

For Mothers, Too !

The Public Recreation Commission of Cin-
cinnati, Ohio, has organized in connection with
the municipal playgrounds mothers’ clubs which
are brought together in a league. These clubs
are active in helping to provide playground ap-
paratus and supplies, which become the property
of the Public Recreation Commission, in organ-
izing parties for the children and in conducting
dances. The individual club or the league in con-
ducting a dance assumes all tinancial
responsibility, paying a supervisor
from the Public Recreation Com-
mission to be in general charge of
the dance.

From a Study of Clubs

Some of the facts which came
out of the study of settlement clubs
made by the Welfare Council of
New York City may have signifi-
cance for recreation w o r k e r s in
planning for playground clubs. It was found,
for example, that girls are greater club joiners
than boys; twice as many girls as boys belong to
clubs, especially in the early teens. Children be-
gin joining clubs in large numbers when they are
eight to eleven years of age and remain active
members until they are sixteen to nineteen years
old. The life of the average club, however, is only
one or two years, although many have been in ex-
istence tive years or more. New clubs are formed
as rapidly as old clubs disband.

Social and athletic activities are most popular.
Sixty per cent of the girls’ clubs had programs
involving instruction of some sort, but only 15
per cent of the boys wanted instruction. \Vhile
58 per cent of the girls’ clubs dealt with health,
less than 30 per cent of the boys were interested
in such information. On the other hand. 90 per
cent of the boys’ clubs were interested in athletics
as compared with 42 per cent of the girls.

 

 

World at Play

 

THEY wanted a ten-
nis court so they built
one! The topography
of the school site in
Manchester, Illinois, permitted of no suitable
place for a court so the school children before
and after school and during recess, dug the clay
from the side of a hill several hundred feet from
the site of the court and trasported it in wheel—
barrows. “It was a real job,” writes M. G. Moore,
Superintendent, “for it was necessary to make an
18—inch filling on one side of the court and an-
other of 8 inches at the highest point of the
court’s site.” Tree felling, too, entered in. The
only expenditure for the layout was for posts
and netting for the backst‘ops and the iron pipe
posts supporting the net, which cost $2.65. The
total expenditure for this excellent hard surfaced
court was less than $35. It is in_constant use
from twelve to fourteen hours daily. The 'popula—
tion of Manchester is about 450 and of this num-
her there are fifty who play almost every day,
in spite of the fact that there are fewer than a
dozen tennis rackets in the entire village. Tennis
balls are procured from time to time by “passing
the hat.” The outstanding players are a middle-
aged farmer, a grocer, a fifteen year old farmer
lad, and the seventeen year old daughter of a
truck driver.

302

A Home-Made
Tennis Court

 

 

 

|
t
0
.0

-——.-_

“TO be sure, there
some discussion abo
eliminating some 0
the newer things '
education, and here and there people are indica
ing that physical education, being among th
things that have come last' into the progra
should be the first to go. I am not at all of th
point of view. I am trying to believe that if w
study our program with a view to eliminatin
something, we might eliminate what came in tl
18th and 19th centuries, and not those of the 20tl
The things that have come into the education
program in the latter century have presumabl
been thought out in relation to the needs of th
children of the century. Therefore,I think the pr
grams of music and art, programs having to d
with health and with recreational opportunitie
are not'among the first to go, but among the las
because they have been thought out in relation t
the needs of the modern child. I do not want t
dwell on this but I say that' from a certain poi
of view physical education is in a precarious pos
tion.”——Dr. Payson Smith, Commissioner of Ed.
cation, Massachusetts.

Preserving Educational
Gains

NATURE STUD
is an important pa
of the program ,of t I
Atlanta, Georgia, pu 1
lie schools, and in elementary and junior hi

Nature Study
in Atlanta

if A

  
     
  
   
    
   
  
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
    
  
  
    
 

, hools the subject is being strongly stressed.
hirty-six white and ten colored elementary
I hools have their own gardens which are worked
. 1 by the children. In honor of the \Vashington
icentennial 3,971 trees were planted by children
| the past year on school and home grounds.

   

' A Water Safety Campaign—The California
ssociation of Health, Physical Education and
ecreation made an intensive campaign for water
fety an important part of its spring program.
earn to swim campaigns, special life saving
urses and water safety instruction periods in
onnection with the health education program in
T e schools were especially stressed. Recently a
erkeley boy fourteen years old, while spending
week-end at Antioch, rescued a girl who had
epped into a water hole. He brought her to
tore and with his knowledge of the Schaef‘fer
ethod gleaned from his course taken during the
rn to swim campaign, he resuscitated the girl.
This one instance,” writes Charles \V. Davis,
irector of Health Education of the Berkeley
ublic Schools, “has made us feel that our efforts
behalf of the 1,300 youngsters who enrolled
our learn to swim campaign and life saving
truction were well worth while.”

l
| St. Louis Schools Hold Their First Play

ay.—F.ight thousand children took part on
ay 18th in the first Play Day ever held in
. Louis, ,Missouri, for pupils of the elemen-
ry schools. The program, arranged by the
ysical Education Department of which A.
. Kindervater is Supervisor, consisted of a
and march followed by a salute to the flag,
(1 the singing of “America.” Then came song
'tys, folk dances and games (boys and girls
grade 2); circle and progressive dodge ball
mes (grades 3 and 4) ; types of shuttle relay
mes (boys of grades 5 to 8) ; stunts and pyr-
ids (boys of mixed grades); Hungarian
ardas, Virginia reel, and the minuet (girls
grades 7 to 8) ; parade and march, by United
um Corps of the public schools; a mixed
up of Organized games (boys and girls ot
des 5 to 8), and the May-pole dances by
groups of girls.

Folk Dancing Festival for the Schools.—
May let the public and parochial schools
Cincinnati, Ohio, held their eighteenth an-,.
'11 May Folk Dancing Festival at Carson
ld, University of Cincinnati. The Public
creation Commission was in charge of the

l

 

WORLD AT PLA Y 303

event aided by the Cincmnati Board of Educa-
tion and the Board Of Education of the paro-
C'hial schools. Preceding the pageant. “The
Fairies’ Treasure Chest,” the Cincinnati con-
cert orchestra presented a program.

Open House in Berkeley.—One day each
year the Berkeley city government holds open
house sponsored by the Berkeley League of
\Vomen Voters and the Junior Chamber of
Commerce, to which every resident of the city
is invited. This year more than 3,500 citizens
took advantage of the opportunity to inspect
the various city departments at work and tO
observe at first hand the activities being car-
ried on by the city's administration and paid
for by the taxes which the citizens paid intO
the city’s treasury.

Regarding “Manual of Play Activities.”—

In the July issue there appeared a review of
the “Manual of Play Activities” issued by the
Department of Physical Education, George
Peabody College for Teachers, Nashville, Ten—
nessee. \Vord has just been received that this

publication has been withdrawn and it is not
available.

JOURNAL
PHYSICAL EDUCATION

PRACTICAL and SCIENTIFIC

Series of A rticlee
ON

VOLLEY BALL and HANDBALL
TECHNIQUES

Commencing in September

—<>—
Send for Sample Copy
—<>—

Published by

PHYSICAL DIRECTORS’ SOCIETY

of Y.M.C.A.’s of North America

347 MADISON AVENUE NEW YORK
JOHN BROWN, JR., MD. M.P.E., Editor

Price $3.00 Overseas and Canada $3.25

Single Copies 35:.

304 FACULTY AT PLAY

Faculty at Play
(Continued from page 272)

the line of activities, boxing and wrestling being
the least popular, with one registration. These
figures, however, do not represent the total num-
her taking part in the recreation program as many
participated without registration.

Objectives and Results

There were two objectives in mind in develop-
ing the program: (I) To make available all pos-
sible physical education and recreation activities
for the faculty and graduate students, and (2)
to stimulate a better feeling between members of
the faculty and between faculty and graduate
students. Results have been most encouraging.
Though practically no help has been possible
through paid assistants or funds, the cooperation
of the Department of Physical Education in open-
ing the regular classes to faculty and graduate
students has made a broader program possible.
Many have availed themselves of the opportunity
to learn swimming, fencing, dancing and similar
activities with the undergraduates. All the fa-

Tbe most up-to-date and authoritative
information on the subject

THE CHILD AND PLAY

By
JAMES EDWARD ROGERS

DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL PHYSICAL EDUCATION
SERVICE OF THE NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

RECOMMENDED BY :

Hon. Ray Lyman Wilbur: “I like it very
much. It is both stimulating and practical."

Dr. Smiley Blanton, author of “Child Guid-
ance”: “An excellent book."

Hygeia: “Deserves careful reading."

George 0. Draper. Y.M.C.A. College: “Will
be welcomed by all who are interested in the
play of children."

Boston Eve. Transcript: “A surprisingly
cpmplete picture of play facilities and pos-
s1bilities."

Lee F. Hanmer, of the Russell Sage Founda-

tion: “A splendid publication. . . attrac-
tive, readable, and helpful."

New York Times: “Very helpful.”
Price, $2.00

THE CENTURY CO.
353 FOURTH Ava, NEW YORK, N. Y.

8V0, 205 pp. Illustrated

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
   
    
  

cilities and equipment of the Athletic Associati
as well as of the Physical Education Departme
and the Military Department are at the dispos
of the faculty group.

Soon after the opening of the University
news letter was sent out explaining in more .
tail the opportunities for recreation, and an '
vitation was issued to all interested in taking p
in tournaments in golf and tennis. Sixty-f0
men took part in a “brown derby” golf tour
ment, while fifty battled for the championship
the “brown derby” tennis (singles) tourname
Local merchants donated derbies. These priz

headgear will be defended in the spring tor
naments.

An appeal was issued for suggestions regar
ing activities and from those received have grox
the following activities:

A bowling league with fourteen five-men tea

A treasure hunt designed to acquaint the f
ulty and graduate students with their own u
versity (over I50 men and women participated

Faculty—graduate dances at 75 cents per cou
(The orchestra agrees to furnish music for $
provided as much as that is taken in. Thus f
the orchestra has not’ been obliged to take a loss

‘ l

Husbands and Wives “Splash”—a swimmi ’
party meeting each Wednesday night. (Usual i
twenty or more couples attend.) I

An evening swimming class for men only.

Duplicate bridge tournament in cooperati
with the students.

Riflery and revolver shooting on the R.O.T.
ranges (Plans are under way for a telegrap
meet with the faculty of other universities.)

Many letters have been received expressing t
pleasure and satisfaction of the participants
the program. New acquaintanceships have be
formed; the wives of the faculty have come
know one another at the dances and swimmi
parties; many a newcomer has expressed k
pleasure after playing a round of golf with P
fessor Blank who was formerly only a name
him. Wives have secretly confided that their h
bands are better tempered after having had re
lar exercise! And what could be more fun t
to see the faculty putting aside their dignity a
becoming “regular fellows”!

t
0
' .
l

INTANGIBLES 305

Intangibles
(Continued from page 275)

etreat when life proves almost too much for one
o endure. An appreciation of beautiful music
nd some slight skill in its accomplishment are
st the sort of helps most needed at such a time.
or example, it has been proved that music is a
onderful help in the treatment of the mentally
' icted and has been used by some distinguished
)ecialists in the field of mental hygiene. To

thers, art is the city of refuge, where in com- Filmogd. gamma. Coortl an easily inmued. Can
any with the great masters with their lights and :Sw‘iii: £1,335: 0:03;? 5m" "hid a prop" "‘1'

.- iadows and fine sense of values the troubled soul ,nflxm’, ‘fSlff'2f“ELffmzfihl%:h§,5:"i'iz';::
nds the peace necessary to enable it to begin the ‘ "1“{J:?::d,°‘;‘§:}'o,:,:?;nl“$:.E'bib;lf;,“';° help you

ay anew and to face its problems with courage. 1" °‘" ’°“‘ ‘°"“'-

1 0 others, poetry and bits of fine prose are the DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

elps to which troubled minds may go and gain 4610 Gm“! AWN"- Duluth' Minn-

trength to carry on their part in the world.
It is even more true today than ever before
iat “man cannot live by bread alone,” and so it
well that on this program this morning in the
lldSt of a week necessarily full of discussions
'n our economic problems, we should pause for
me session of the program to consider the “in-
ngibles" in our school curriculum, and it would EAGLE RING“
0t be strange if we discovered before the pro-
'_, ram is over that they are the most necessary and
liractical things in our whole educational system.
' his will be true because they are to be presented
y those who are themselves masters of beauty
(1 music and line thinking—From Journal of
e National Education Association, June, 1932.

 

Leisure and the Schools

(Continued from page 275) The" is
i f the youth, and you know what happens when   if you
on sit on the safety valve of the boiler. Whole- . u ,,
me recreation builds character. So we call our speczfy 
l iysical education a recreational program and not

gymnastic program. You Wouldn't think of permitting
children to gamble on the playground.

Then you shouldn't gamble on the
playground.

SUPPLY SERVICE

In Leather, Metal. Celluloid. Wood Carving. Batik.
Rape and Cordage: also Primitive Indian Crafts

for the Educational. Recreational and Occupational
Fields.

When you specify American Play
Devices there isn't a gamble in a play-
ground full. Careful designing. super-
vised selection of quality materials and
skilled workmanship assure safe. reli-
able and dependable performance. Send
for our catalog—see for yourselves the
many wonderful playground devices
We have to offer.

HAN DICRAFT MANUAL

300 ProjeCts. 400 Illustrations
Price $1.00 Paper. $2.00 Cloth

Sent on Approval Price List on Request

MR6“. SPEC‘HLTI'E
, . Learnifmliikmro

COLORADO SWSOLM”.

American Playground Device 00.
ANDERSON. INDIANA

 

306 SURFACING PLAYGROUND AREAS

WHATEVER

your H O B BY
you will find it in K

EVERYDAY Juno

cienee and 

    
 

x .1. 1'  NEWSSTANDS
, (jg; ' 

‘ 4-Color Covet
j Over 450 Illustrations
96 Pages-9:12 Inches

 251w In.th I i
L " 'I'I'IU ‘i' .
r - .. Wk,” t__..l._ _

lA‘lES‘I’ W06. Was, Suoo Km Tim Erma: '
mum, 0mm, W000 mo Mew. Cm“; RADIO Kin-ts

MR. HUGO GERNSBACK'S latest magazine contains the

most important and recent developments in Science.
Mechanics. Radio. Television. Aviation and Chemistry.
For everyone. regardless of age. EVERYDAY SCIENCE AND
MECHANICS will be found to be useful and instructive.
It is thoroughly illustrated with scientific news events
from all parts of the world, and helpful to thousands of
people who wish to advance their scientihc knowledge.

Many excellent pages for students. instructors and for the
home workshop man who finds pleasure in building

things; experiments in electricity. chemistry and formulas
of all kinds. \

Just to mention a few departments:

AUTOMOTIVE HOUSEHOLD HINTS WOODWORKING
AVIATION METAL WORKING WRINKLES
BIOLOGY NEW DEVICES RECIPES “GD
BOOK REVIEWS PATENT ADVICE FORMULAS
CHEMISTRY PHOTOGRAPHY

ELECTRICITY RADIO SHOP KINKS
ENGINEERING TELEVISION and other:

EDPFE'IQ‘L 8 MONTHS FOR $|-°°

Mail Coupon Today!

EVERYDAY SCIENCE AND MECHANICS
100 T Park Place. New York. N. Y.

I enclose herewith One Dollar for which you are to enter my
subscription to EVERYDAY SCIENCE AND MECHANICS for the
next Eight Months.

Add reu ............................................................................................ ..
City ........................................................ .. State .............................. ..

vvv ‘7" 7V v vvvvv vvvv

   
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
    
    
  
    
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
    
  
 

Our large field lends itself to the developme
of the ideal of play. That is why we plan to la
out this field in baseball diamonds, football field
basketball, handball and tennis courts.

Each pupil’s program calls for one daily ho
of recreation, out-of-doors whenever possible, f
lowed frequently by a dip in the pool. This mea
that every hour of the school day we shall ha
more than 500 pupils engaged in some kind t
recreational work.

Now why do we have a fence around the tie]
For the same reason that we have four wal
around a classroom. It would be just as sensib
to try to conduct a recitation in the open at t
corner of Hamilton and Chestnut Avenues as ‘1
do this work on our field without a fence.

There are other outlets for leisure time. Sh0p
drawing rooms, music rooms, stage equipment '
auditoriums, serve a useful purpose. They d
velop the creative side of the individual and e
able him to spend his leisure time by doing som
thing himself rather than sitting to be entertain
by some one else—From N ew Jersey Educati

Bulletin, April, 1932.

 

Surfacing Playground Areas
(Continued from page 284)

Cincinnati, Ohio

(Referring to the loam or top soil playground 511
face). “We have discovered that it is most satisfactor
At the present writing it appears that even after a hea
rain storm practically no water remains on the groun
. . . . We are inclined to continue using this specificati
(rather than the lime stone screenings—gravel surface
until a better surface at the same cost or less can I

obtained.
(Referring to the bituminous tennis courts). “A

other battery of courts has been in use for two yea
and apparently is standing up very well.”

Pasadena, California—Park Department
“It has been our experience that concrete tennis cour
are by far the cheapest in the long run.”

Boston, Massachusetts—School Department

“In Boston we are using for playground surfaces
our school yards cork asphalt pavement. This is the b
pavement that has come to our notice as yet. Includi
the cork in the asphalt makes for resiliency and t
children who fall are not injured as much as from 0th

kinds of surface.”

Tampa, Florida

(Referring to asphalt and sawdust courts). “We ha
found this surface very satisfactory. It is more resili
than any of the other hard surfaces. It is not abrasi
and consequently it does not wear out the leather cover
balls as rapidly as other hard surface courts. The s

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND THE MACHINE AGE

‘1 5 little effect on the surtace although it does soften
o the extent that high heels mark it up in hot weather."

~‘ anta Monica, California

(Referring to cushion surface). “Our cushion surface
ve {ind has eliminated the a'brasiveness of the surface

ormerly used and has greatly reduced the wear

f supplies and equipment as well as on clothes and
hildren. We find this surface very satisfactory for
andball courts, outdoor basketball courts, volley ball
urts and other areas where a permanent court is de-
'red. This is the most satisfactory surface we have yet

found and is at the same time very economical.”

 

Physical Education
(Continued from page 285)

and tear

 

VARIETY

The success of industry in a machine age

epends on widely diffused buying

ur colossal industries destroy themselves if
hey do not succeed in distributing financial
esources among the masses of the people.
Through its power to buy or not to buy, the
. ublic—once aroused—can control our major

ndustrial enterprises.

The change from physical activity to rela-
ive inactivity in many of our occupations has
ed to artificial substitutes for real exercise and
ecreation. The best effects of physical activity
re lost when elements of interest, volition and
*ariety are lacking. It is through education,
hrough the activities of such groups as yours,

Send for the bulletin de—
scribing the events and
rules for conducting them
—a copy may be secured
free—and secure a supply
of the certification blanks
available.

is essential in playground equipment.
for complete enjoyment and diversihed
play. That is the outstanding feature
of this big Louden combination outfit
—nine different play devices in one
unit. It's a complete playground equip-
ment in itself. Ideal for limited space
or appropriations.” Easily installed; no
skilled labor required.

power.

Write for the Louden Playground
Book and new low prices.

J. E. PORTER CORP.
ll8 Broadway

Ottawa, Illinois

EQUIPMENT

Encourage Swimming

oMake the Swimming Badge
Tests a special Feature oi
your program this summer.

The National Recreation Association. which appointed
a committee to work out a series of tests at the request
of recreation ofiicials, issue an attractive emblem to

award the individuals passing the tests. It is made of
white felt three inches in diameter embrmdered in red

and may readily be sewed on the swimming suit.

¢<< PRICE 25 CENTS >>>

National Recreation Association

3|5 Fourth Avenue - - - New York City

 

307

LOUDEN

PLAYGROUND

 

308 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles 2
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

         

MAGAZINES

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, June 1932.

Physical Education and the Machine Age, by Joy
Elmer Morgan.

The Educational Principles of Mary Wigman, by
Hanya Holm.

Personality and Social Leadership in Our Ranks of
Teachers, by Florence A. Somers.

An editorial—The Seventh of the Ten Cardinal
Points.

From Tadpole to Seal—Swimming in an Organiza-
tion Summer Camp, by Marie Manchee.

Thirty-seventh Annual Convention of the A. P. E. A.
Report, by A. Lester Crapser.

The American City, July 1932.
More, Not Less, Municipal Recreation Work Needed.

The Citizenship Values of Rightly Celebrated Public
Holidays.

The American City, August 1932
A School Roof Playground for Small Children.
The Race Problem at Swimming Pools.

Chamber of Commerce in Fort Wayne, Ind. Pro-
motes Community Music as a Leisure-Time
Activity.

Under—Water Lighting for Olympic Pool.

The Survey Midmonthly, July 15, 1932

Ups and Downs of Public Recreation, by Roy Smith
Wallace.

Roof Top Play.

Parks and Recreation, July 1932.

Notes on Track and Field Activities, by V. K.
Brown.

The Totem Board

The July 1932 issue of this magazine is devoted to
native crafts.

PAMPHLETS

Twenty-fifth Annual Report—Board of Park Commis-
sioners, East Orange, 1931.

The Man of All Time—A Pageant of Washington.

Presentedorby the Teachers and Pupils of the At-
lantic City Public Schools.

Backyard Playgrounds

Lancaster Recreation and Playgrounds Association,
Lancaster, Pa.

Milwaukee Playgrounds, by Gilbert Clegg.
A reprint from American Landscape Architect.

Social Recreation Institute, Seattle, Washington.

Annual Report, 1930—1931. Recreation Commission, San
Franc1sco, Calif.

Safety Bulletin Service for Playground Workers

Massachusetts Safety Council, 6 Beacon Street,
Boston.

  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

through a great increase in hiking, boxin,
gardening, golf, ping pong, bowling, tenn'
dancing and horseback riding that we sh
find the natural correctives for the limitatio
of a sedentary life. It is of the utmost imp
tance that we establish, not for a few but f
all, a reasonable program of physical activ'
and that we develop in the school both I
philosophy and the activities which will
useful in the years beyond the school.

(3) Finally, in considering what you can
to improve conditions, consider what the
chine age has done to you. This will help y
to understand its effects on others. What .
yustments can you make to insure not only t
physical°vigor which would have been possi
in 1900 but an even finer and freer devel
ment of your physical heritage?

You can make yourself a student of life
the particular community in which you wo

You can visit homes and talk with pare
about the welfare of their children.

You can exert a steady pressure toward
more rational curriculum built around t
needs of life—the need for more physical a
tivity, for training in leisure, for an increas
devotion to the fine arts of music, dra
human relations, gardening and architectui
These are the materials with which we sh
build our civilization.

You can help to work out standards of ph
sical fitness and activity and to interpret tho
standards to the children, to the parents and
those who manage school and community li

You can work through your profession
organizations to accomplish certain large r
forms which as an individual you would
unable to achieve.

You can study the work of the White Hou
Conference on Child Health and Protecti
and help to make the findings of that confe
ence effective.

Finally, may I suggest this is no time f
paralyzing pessimism. It is a time for inspi
tion, for planning, for higher ambitions, for
deeper appreciation of our national herita
If we teach our young people to expect lit
they will be satisfied with little. If we tea
them to expect much, to look forward to gr
things and to be willing to make large sacrifi
in the interest of each other, we shall p
forward to a new era of social advance .
human progress.

RECREATION IN THE HOME

Q

Recreation in The Home
(Continued from page 299)

The blowing of beautiful soap bubbles, the
laying of tunes by drawing the finger gently
ross the edges of tumblers or drinking glasses
lled to different depths, listening to the bells of
ologne by striking a spoon suspended from the
‘ iddle of a string, each end of which is pressed
. the ears, placing pennies or other coins on the
ace and forehead by slipping them a little to
ake them adhere, are all pastimes demonstrating
lementary laws in physics».

\Ve need not be tellers of stories to our chil-
ren but we can read to them from good standard
tory books. Of course in this field good judg—
ent must be used not to thrill unduly the child
f too vivid imagination. Riley’s poem about the
ar that Climbed the Sycamore Tree and Eu-
ne Field’s Little Toy Soldier and Lolly Pop

nd for the pre-school child and the story of

rol Bird in “The Birds’ Christmas Carol,” add
u the seasonal spirit of home.

Be not too fearful of having well illustrated
'oks that are beyond the years of the child. The
riter recalls so vividly lying flat on the sitting
oom floor poring over a well illustrated volume
f Robert Burns’ poems in which the graveyard
1d witch scene of “Tam O’Shanter’s Ride” was
. vividly set forth that his interest in the poem
as never ceased. The same can be said of “The
otter’s SatUrday Night.” Another was Fleet-
ood’s “Life of Christ,” which contained so many
ustrations concerning His life and which was
red over from time to time. Proverbs illus-
ated so well by picture that “The longest way
I ound is the shortest way home,” that “the eye

the master did more work than both of his
nds,” and many other old maxims and proverbs
. ve helped to make decisions in later life.

The participation of parents who are but boys
' (1 girls grown big, and are only known to be

1 as the birth record or the calendar are con-
lted, will create in the mind of the child the
. ling that it is understood and the home means

actly what Samuel \Voodworth said of it:

Our dear to the heart are the scenes of my childhood
1 hen fond recollection presents them to view;
e orchard, the meadow, the deep tangled wildwood,
' nd every dear spot which my infancy knew.”
' ore: Readers of RECREATION interested in promoting
- e play will wish to know that Mr. Graham has issued
article in pamphlet form which in quantity may be
ured at the following prices: 50 for $2.25; 100 for
3' ; 200 for $7.50.

Read Special Offer!

CODEBALL

ON THE GREEN
The game with a kick in it

Show this ad to a responsible Sport-
ing Goods Dealer in your locality and
tell him to Write us at once for in-
formation as to how we will enable
him to donate a Codeball on the
Green set to you gratis in behalf of
your community.

Among recent installa-
tions are courses at:

Foster Park
Ft. Wayne, Ind.

Picturesque Swope Park
Kansas City, Mo.

Woodside Golf 8 Country
Club, Des Moines. Ia.

Foster Park
Kokomo. Ind.

Lincoln Park
Rock Island, Ill.

University of Indiana
Bloomington, Ind.

Community Park
Dayton. Ohio.

Golf Perfection Fairways
Toledo, Ohio.

WESTERN UNION

CHARLES DEIGHAN,
Codeball Co. of America.
11 South LaSalle Street, Chicago.

Codeball went over with a bang this afternoon
at public demonstration at Stadium. Hundreds
played and were most enthusiastic. People clamor-
ing for more. An announcement that sets would
be located in cities parks brought dozens of in-
quiries as to when they would be installed. Can
you rush us another set?

M. H. HODGE,

Supt. of Recreation,
Rock Island, 11!.

Sanctioned and adopted by the A. A. U.,
as National Sports, 1929.

Codeball Company of America

11 So. LaSalle Street Chicago, Ill.

 

309

310 OUR DECISION 15

<

  

 

ANY inquiries come in for interpretation
and advice on problems concerning rules

of games and athletics. These are often of
general interest and value. RECREATION plans to
conduct a column of such inquiries and answers.
Send in your problems of interpretation of rules;
protests on decisions; inquiries on organization of
leagues and tournaments. Those having general
interest will be used in this column. All inquiries
will receive a direct reply if a self-addressed

stamped envelope is enclosed.

Q. If a man is on second and a man on third
base, and the man on second runs and
touches third, but seeing the other man on
third returns to his base in time to prevent
being touched by the ball, is either of these

men out?

. NO.

. Rule 22, Sec. 8—a base runner far overruns
lirst base, the ball is missed by fielder and
base runner goes to second. Must he re-
touch first base or can he continue where he

may be?

(03:

A. He may continue.

Q. Does it matter which way a base runner
turns at first if no effort is made to go to
second?

A. No.

Q. What is the penalty for a fielder catching a
ball against his body, commonly called a
frozen catch?

A. There is none.

Q. What is the penalty for making an illegal
pitch?

A. The umpire should call it a ball.

Q. In Playground Baseball a batter hits a ball
that settles on foul ground between home
and third base, then rolls fair. Is it a fair
bit or a foul?

A. It is fair.

Q. In section 4 of rule 21, if an overthrow is

for the man running to lirst, can the runner

that held first make as many bases as he can,

or is he too only entitled to one extra base?
A. One extra base.

Q. If a man is on third base and another on
first base, and in the succeeding play the
catcher throws the ball to second base, is

the man on third base entitled to go home.
scoring a run?

A. Yes.

 
 

Br
Clean

  
    
  
     
  
   
 
 
 

igi

SUNSHIN
FRESH AI

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

PROTECTING children at play is the aim
of the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the dan-
gers and dirt in dust! it's so easy and
it costs next to nothing.

An application of Solvay Flake Calcium
Chloride on gravel or earth surfaces
effectiver ends the dust nuisance. And
Solvay Calcium Chloride kills germs.
The photomicrographs pictured here
show you the results. 347 cultures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the same dust
treated with Solvay Calcium Chloride.

Germs
in Dust

Before treatment After treatment

   

Make this a dustless outdoor season
on your playgrounds. Send today For

full information and booklet No. Il59.
'SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION
3.. .__.. Alkalies and Chemical Products Manufac-
tured by The Solvay Process Company
61 Broadway New York
EC TRADE MARK REG u s. PAT OFF
FLAKE—77%—80%

     

New Books on Recreation

Safety Education in Schools

'hite House Conference on Child Health and Protec-
n. The Century Company, New York. $.50.

. ECREATION workers will be greatly interested in this

report of the Subcommittee on Safety Education in
hools of the \Vhite House Conference on Child Health
.. Protection. The report presents the findings of an
ensive investigation of what is being done to safe-
we rd school children and to educate both children and
- community in desirable safety habits and attitudes.
offers information on the administration of safety
ucation, methods and materials for teaching, and ex-
acurricular activities, such as safety clubs, the school
y patrol and other activities. A section on “Measur-
' the Results" tells of the progress which has been
de. An interesting bibliography is offered.

American Universities and Colleges

ited by John Henry MacCracken for the American
uncil on Education. W'illiams and W'ilkins Company,

' ltimore. l$4.00.

m: second edition of this volume presents the salient

facts concerning the 521 accredited institutions of
her learning in the United States, among them details
rding organization, control, preperty, resources, and
uirements for admission and graduation. Part I is
voted to a general explanation of the organization and
ration of higher education with a brief survey of
paration for the profession, while Part II gives a
rate statement of the individual colleges and uni-
ities. The volume is an invaluable reference book
.. the educator.

     
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   

. e Measurement of Athletic Power

1 City. $3.00.

' R. MCCLOY has presented in this volume some
achievement standards in track and field athletic
' ts for boys from 10 to 20 years of age. There are
t chapters: I. The Evolution of Competition in
k and Field Athletics; II. Principles Underlying the
lopment of Standard Tests in Track and Field
tics; III. Scoring Tables for the Measurement of

tic Performance; IV. The Selection of Standard
' ts; V. Athletic Classification and Handicapping by
Height and \Veight; VI. Classification for Physical
ities; VII. The Athletic Quotient; VIII. The Ad-
tration of Tests of Athletic Ability. A number of
, charts and figures are given.

‘I

' l

Charles Harold McCloy. A. S. Barnes 8.: Co., New

Society and Education

By John A. Kinneman. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $2.25.
To suggest material for the Curriculum, as well as to
outline some valuable principles of curriculum con-
struction, has been the purpose of Mr. Kinneman in mak-
ing available the result of his decade of experience in
teacher training institutions, and he has made a special
effort to make prospective teachers see the relationships
which exist between organized society and the practice
of the teaching craft. The first eight chapters of the
text state some of the limits of sociology and contain a
general discussion of the relation of sociology to educa-
tion. The remaining chapters are divided into six main
themes of thought each of which in itself might consti-
tute an objective of education based on sociological prin-
ciples. Part VII is devoted to the Wise Use of Leisure
Time, and under this subject Modern Leisure, The
School and Leisure Time and The Range of Beauty are
discussed.

Chafacter Education Through Physical

Education

Edited by Jay B. Nash. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $2.00.

THIS volume is the third in a series of interpretations

of physical education issued by the School of Edu-

cation, New York University. It represents a symposium

of material by leaders in the field, and throughout the
effort has been made to define character and to differ-
entiate it from mere behavior as well as from personality
or morality. The scape of the subject as presented may
be glimpsed by the chapter headings—Character Defined;
The Bases of Character; Physical Education and Char-
acter; An Evaluation of Physical Education Activities
for Character; Principles of Methodology in Physical
Education; Examples of Methodology in Physical Edu-
cation, and Problems of Administration.

Record of Current Educational

Publications.
Bulletin, 1932, No. 4. Office of Education. Edited by

Martha R. McCabe. Government Printing Ofiice, \Vash-
ington, D. C. $.10.

Tm: articles and books listed in this record, covering

the period from October to December, 1931, have
been selected by thirteen specialists in major fields of

education. The carefully selected annotated and classi-

fied bibliography, which is the result of much research,

includes significant publications in the field of education
and should be of great value to educators.

311

312 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Pyramids Illustrated

By Mathias H. Macherey and John N. Richards.
A. S. Barnes 8: Company, New York. $3.00.

Helpful not only to beginners but to experienced and
skillful teachers is this book representing the result of
much careful research on the part of the authors
who have had long experience in physical education. The
many illustrations accompanying the directions w111 aid
greatly in the teaching process as they show a way of
procedure which the uninitiated may successfully follow.
Two hundred and twenty—one pyramids have been drawn
and described and every conceivable condition of prep-
aration and skill has been taken into account. Nearly
all of the pyramids in the book have been shown at
Eastern District and National Conventions of Physical
Education held in 1922-1926 in Newark. The material

has been tried and found practical.

Recent Progress and Condition of Museums

By Laurence Vail Coleman. Bulletin, 1931, No. 20.
Office of Education, U. S. Department of the Inte-
rior. Government Printing Office.

The study of museums represented in this pamphlet is
the first of its kind. It shows that public museums are
being established at the rate of one each fortnight, and
buildings or wings erected at the rate of one every fif—
teen days. It finds a large majority of the new museums
———80 per cent in the last biennium and 70 per cent in the
decade—appearing in places of less than 100,000 inhabi—
tants, with the point of greatest activity in museum
founding moving steadily down the scale of population.
The study compares the states and also the sections of
the country, and indicates extreme differences in their
museum deveIOpment. It tells of museum revenues of
more than $16,000,000 yearly and catalogues an invest—
ment of $103,000,000 in public museum buildings and of
$10,000,000 in college museum buildings.

A Journey to Many Lands

By Williedell Schawe. World Book Company, Yon-
kers—on-Hudson, New York. $.80.

To enlist the interest of young children in good health
habits is the purpose of this book which introduces the
child to new friends in seven different countries of
Europe and Asia through stories about boys and girls
of these nations who have different customs and envir-
onments. In many incidental but definite ways the stories
stress the value of long hours of sleep, the joy and bene—
fit of playing out-of-doors, the pride in physical ability,
and the need for observing safety rules. Many attractive
pictures in color illustrate important points in the stories.

Personality in Its Teens

By W. Ryland Boorman. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $2.50.

For those who are interested in knowing what goes on
in the mind of the boy, this book will be a revelation. In
It twenty boys have disclosed through correspondence ex—
tending over a period of years their experiences, prob-
lems, emotions, and many of their reactions to life. The
data secured has been analyzed and arranged with re-
gard to such main areas of boy life as athletics, the
home, religion and the like. The study was made pos-
sible through a special research fund set aside by the

Y. M. C.A. College of Chicago.

Habits for Safety

By Harry  Gentles and George H. Betts. The
Bobbs-Merr111 Company, New York. $.67.

The authors have designed this book not for teachers
but for pupils in the public schools. It deals primarily
w1th accident prevention and first aid, and all of the
lessons are motivated by the principle that learning con-
Sists 1n the setting up of desirable habits. Many practical
prOJects are outlined and activities provided for.

Football Line Play

By Bernard F. Oakes. A. S. Barnes 8: Co., N
York City. $4.00.

In this material the writer has endeavored to keep
sound principles and emphasize what is important, a
to give methods which have proved successful in act
play. The many illustrations are of players who w
selected because they were especially adept in perfor
ing the stunts and act-ions in which they are pictur
The book is intended as a reference book for the use
students in four-year coaching courses and sum
school courses, for the use of coaches now in the ii
and for beginning coaches, and as a guide to correct a
successful playing experience by all school and colle

players.
Official Lacrosse Guide—1932

National Collegiate Athletic Association. Spaldin

Athletic Library. No. 113R. $.25.

Known as the official publication of the United Sta
Inter-Collegiate Lacrosse Association, the booklet c
tains the rules of the game and much information
Lacrosse not only in the United States, but in Austral
Canada and England.

The Art of the Foil

By Luigi Barbarsetti. E. P. Dutton & Comp
Inc., New York. $5.00.

Perhaps the greatest living authority on fencing,
Barbasetti has here given the result of a half century
personal experience. The book contains a complete a
authoritative presentation of the theory and techni
of fencing with a foil. It is written with such clearn
that it is suitable for students of fencing, but it is
valuable to instructors and professional fencers.

OfIicers and Directors of the Nationa
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAYUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUREE DAYISON, Locust Valley, L. 1.. N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
WILLIAM HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainlield, N. J.
GUSTAYUS T. KIREY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDwARD E. LoonIs, New York, N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIREN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Washington, D. C.
MISS ELLEN SCRIPPS, LaJolla, Calif.
FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAHES W. WADSWORTH, JR., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

MRS. WILLIAM H. WOODIN, JR., Plainfield, N. J.

 

