Recreation’s Great Opportunity.

In Time of Depression

D n
I“. _

HE horror of a world full of unemployment is equal in certain respects to the

horror of war. Nothing should be said or written to make it appear less horrible.

Everywhere there is uncertainty, insecurity, fear. Everywhere there is need for
courage, for steadiness, for a will to live, a will to go on, at least to hold on.

The money income of the American people for 193I was reported to be 41 per
cent less than for 1929.

The “life income” for 1932 need not be down 41 per cent.

It is a terrible thing to be compelled to receive relief. It is a terrible thing for a
man with imagination to see his neighbors compelled to receive relief rather than
to starve. But there is no gain in brooding. Everything possible must be done to
make such world disasters impossible in the future. Yet—now—in the present, what
can we do to keep-up “life income,” “life values P”

Even certain so-called savage tribes in times of famine depended upon their
“Delight Makers” through music, the dance and sports to try to keep up the morale
of the people.

There are other values besides money. Even in bad times a measure of satis—
faction can be obtained in the family, in the home. There is comradeship and wor-
ship in the church. All human relationships need more attention at a time like this.

Now is the time to face the great national resources the people of our commu—
nities have in music, 1n capaclty for amateur actlng, 1n handcraft, in a greater under-
standing of nature, in readlng, 1n games, 1n soc1a1 recreatlon.

The “life income” may be increased by learning the joy of swimming in the
community swimming pool, by singing in the community choral society, by playing
or even watching basketball in the school gymnasium.

There is no gain in sitting all the time in idleness and letting gloom be added
unto gloom. Even when the world is darkest morale-building recreation can build
up habits of joyous vital living which may be carried over when days of prosperi-
ty return.

A group of persons isolated on the desert, or on a barren island, or snowed in
or frozen in in the polar regions are turned back pretty much on their inner re-
sources, their inner capacities, their own skills, and to some extent in periods like
this péople are turned back more on their own capacities.

A completely socialized society would greatly increase community recreation
in times of depression because there is a greater opportunity in such times of en-
forced leisure to help men and women to obtain skills which shall make for vital
and worth-while life in times of prosperity as well.

Total “life income” may be greater even when “money income” is less, if more
time for the home, the family, the children, the church, be wisely used; if more sat—
isfactions are obtained from all the human relationships of life; if the beauty in the
material world is really noticed, if men learn more of “the art of living.”

Out of the terrible losses of unemployment some gain could be salvaged if we
have wit enough to see it; if recreation leaders have power enough and leadership
enough to make clear what they see and know.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.
645 

When Spring Comes l

-.rr'

This stretch along the des Plaines
River, Illinois, gives us a glimpse
of the beauties to be Found in the
32,000 acres ol native landscape
which the Forest Preserve District
at Cook County, lllinois,now owns.

 

Courtesy Cook C ounty Forest Preserve District

And [now come the days when winter gives way
to spring! Sleds, skates, skis and winter equip-
ment are stored away, and we instinctively seek
the secluded woodednplaces where spring is love-
liest in her awakening from a long winter sleep.

 

646

The Place of Athletics in Modern Education

The building of a finer and richer
life; the development of a well in-
tegrated personality - to these ath-

letics can make their contribution.

By WILLIAM H. KILPATRICK, PH. D.

Professor of Education.
Teachers College, Columbia University

N ORDER to see what part athletics has to play
I in modern education we must first look at edu-
cation in relation to life and to the building
of personality. In this wider setting we can then
better see what to ask of athletics.

First of all, life is or ought to be—some-
thing good to live. Let us have done, once and
for all, with any idea that we should bemoan
or renounce or reduce life. Control and direct,
yes. Take others into account so as to wish a
like good life for them, yes emphatically. But
let us honestly and openly and avowedly seek
to make‘ life as good and as fine and as rich as
we know how—good and fine and rich for

everybody all together.

The Meaning of “Good”

When we use the word
good in connection with life,
there is apt to be confusion
as to what is meant. There
are two meanings to the
word good: This apple is
good to eat; John is a good
boy. The first is a consum—
matory good: This apple is
good to eat and enjoy; the

Dr. Kilpatrick was the speaker at the
opening session of the Wingate
Memorial Athletic Lectures given
every Saturday morning at Colum-
bia University for physical educators
and coaches of New York City
schools and others interested. A
fifteen minute summary of each
lecture demonstration ,session is
broadcast from coast to coast over
the Columbia Broadcasting network
From I2:45 to I:oo P. M.

 

C on rtesy "Scholastic C ouch”

water is good to drink; good music is music good
to hear and enjoy; a good house is a house good
to live in; a good picture is a picture good to look
at and enjoy; a good poem is a poem good to read
and think about and take in; “the good life” is
life good to live and enjoy.

The second good is moral good. It is, I am
here arguing, the practice and wish to live that
the life good to live and enjoy will prevail, really
so to act that by what I do and the way I act
here and now all concerned may best enjoy “the
good life,” enjoy life as far- as possible all to-
gether. In the first meaning of good, we think
of life as being something possibly and properly
good to enjoy. Then in the second meaning, in
moral goodness, we wish this
kind of life, so far as we
can manage it, to prevail for
all; and we propose to act
accordingly, to make our acts
conform to this rule. I
hope it is now clear that I
am here concerned with
finding out how 9 to enrich
life and not reduce it, enrich

life all along, all during life
647

048 ATHLETICS 1N MODERN EDUCATION

 

Courtesy San Francisco Playground Commission

and for all together, reasonably and defensibly
enrich it, not simply do as I happen to wish at
this moment—I must take other moments also
into account. Not simply do as I myself would
like: I must also take others into account. But
after all and all we are honestly and openly trying
—as a kind of summation aim—to make life
a finer thing to live, as fine as we can manage.

Then follows our first main question: Consid-
ering our wish to make life liner and richer, how
does education enter? How shall we think about
education and how manage education so that
through it we can make life better and finer?
Let me hasten to say that' I am not going to at-
tempt any full answer to this question. The time
is too short.

Three Objectives

Keeping in mind that our one big aim is to
make life richer and finer to .live, three things
especially concern us here.

1. Bodily health as the physical basis of all
else.

2. A healthy well integrated personality as
the psychological and moral basis of all else.

3. Ever better thinking in our efforts to
make life better to live.

We must“ not think of any one of these as some-
thing we can get once and for all and then we
have it and can rest content. This is exactly 3.
false doctrine. Life is not run on that basis, as
we nowadays see more clearly than ever before.
If we look about- us we see that life, the world of
affairs, history, experience—whatever term you
like—is an ongoing stream, running always
toward the future, always bringing new things,
leaving off some old things, yes, but rather join-

In a game of basketball the boy's mind, soul and body
are organized and working together for effective action.

ing new to old in ever new combinations and pat-
terns. And this oncoming stream of experience
is always more or less unpredictable—we never
know what a day may bring forth. As we face
this oncoming stream we always have preferences,
some things we have beforetimes liked, we wish
them again or more of them for ourselves and
our loved ones. Some things that have happened
to us or to others we do not like; these we try
to avoid or avert. And as we have preferences, so
we make efforts—as I have said—-—to get or
avert, and the outcome in any case is always
more or less precarious. We wish, we hope and
we try. Sometimes we succeed. Often we fail.

Life, then, is a stream mingled of new and old,
of hope and fears and efforts, with outcomes pre-
carious. It is in this changing, shifting stream that
we seek to keep our health and the health of our
children and pupils as fine, as rich, as we can,
seek to maintain healthy and integrated person-
alities amid the ever oncoming rush of new de-
mands, new possibilities, new problems, and new
dangers. And it is in this stream—in this kind
of stream—that thinking is needed, continually
needed, needed by all if they are to be allowed to
go about loose without guardians. When, then,
we ask education to work for health and for the
integrated personality and for better thinking, it
is for health and personality and thinking in this
ever shifting, ever precarious stream of life.
Education must be correlative of our kind of life,
and both are always in process, always shifting
and becoming.

What Is Modern Education? "

The topic assigned to me on this program asks
as to “the place of athletics in modern education.”

ATHLETICS IN MODERN EDUCATION 649

What kind of education, we may ask, is “mod-
em” or, perhaps better what kind of education is
proper in our modern times? Modern education
is the kind that consciously tries to fit this kind
of ever oncoming, ever shifting, precarious
stream of life. Such a life presents us with an
unending stream of situations, always new but
mingled of new and old elements. We strive to
control the situations as best we can. To do this
we are always thinking and contriving. We con—
t'inually face situations that call for attention and
management. As we face each such situation and
grapple with it, we use old knowledges and skills
but we apply them in new ways, in new propor-
tions. We have to adapt the old patterns to the
new difficulties.

Now education is intimately enmeshed in this
continual grappling with life’s situations, so inti-—
mately that it is an aspect of it, not properly a
part of it. Height and weight are aspects of a
human body, not parts of it. The aspect is always
more intimate than the part. So here. Education
is an inseparable aspect of this
life process. As we face each
new situation, we bring to bear
on it what we have learned in
the past, knowledge and skill
and attitude. As we manage
the new situation we learn
something more from it. Each
experience teaches something,
if no more than to reinforce
the old. But still more, if we
meet our new situations, each
with his best.possible use of the
past, we shall each of us in general improve over
the past. We shall learn better how to manage.
If we keep this up, we shall accumulate better
and better ways of meeting situations. This better
and better accumulation is education par excel-
lence.

Some of you who hear me wonder that I have
not yet said one word about schools or schooling,
and others wonder that I have not yet reached
athletics. I cannot wonder at yOUr wonder, but
there is method in my madness. I have not men-
tioned schools because I think that our ordinary
school is not run very successfuly as an educa—
tional institution. In fact, as we are here con—
sidering education, I think the traditional school
is little concerned with education and often in
much that it does it seems an enemy to such an
education. I hope the time will soon come when
schools shall be run very consciously on a genu-

"At the White House Conference

we learned that the first cardinal
principle in education is that each
individual child should develop his
highest possible level of attainment.
In order to do this we must recog-
nize that a child's leisure hours, his
entertainment and recreation, are
iust as important parts of his indi-

vidual growth as his school hours

and study."---Dr. Edwin Broome,
Superintendent of Schools, Philadephia.

inely educational program. To help bring that good
good day is why I am talking about education and
not schools. The school needs to be remade in
order to become more actively and effectually
educative. It is life that educates, and I am wish-
ing for the schools to learn this fact and to
rebuild themselves on a basis of actual living.

Athletics in the Good Life

I have postponed a discussion of athletics be-
cause I wanted to have a proper pictUre in which
to fit in. Possibly we are now ready for it. we
have seen that we honestly and avowedly mean
to make life good and rich, good to live and
enjoy. We are not selfish in this and we mean not
to be shortsighted. We mean to run life, each
one his own life, on a basis that, as best we can
make it out, promises best in the long run for all
concerned. In such a prOgram we know, each
from his own experience, that there come many
slips and failures. The present wish is often so
enticing that in spite of a broader and better
view beckoning us on, we may
choose the near view, the pres—
ent pleasure, just because it is
near and preSent and ours. Ed—
ucation, then. if it is to help the
really good and reasonably de—
fensible life prevail over mere
present impulse must work in
season and out to that end. Our
problem then is: What athletics
as part of education can do to
help in thus making life better.

Before we come to closer
grips with the problem of athletics one further
thing must be said. When we confront a situation
and respond to it, the whole organism in a true
sense and degree cooperates in the response.
When a boy is trying in a basketball game to put
the ball in the basket', he is not simply moving
his arms. His whole body is cooperating, so to
speak, with his arms. Probably every muscle in
his body, and all their correlative fibers, are en-
gaged in a cooperative effort to get that ball into
that basket here and“ now. But this is still not all;
the boy is thinking as hard as ever he can of all
the pertinent factors in the case, where he is
with reference to the goal, where the other play-
ers are, both teammates to help and opponents to
hinder, and how they are all placed with refer-
ence to his proposed play. And in this, certain
players stand out, to his mind. One opponent is
particularly capable; the ball must' get by him.

650 ATHLETICS IN MODERN EDUCATION

Nor are body and mind all that are engaged in
this one act. This boy is feeling all the excitement
of the occasion. What are these feelings? Is it
anything to win, even including unfair tactics if
he can get away with it? Is he feeling a generous
rivalry that would rather lose the game than
make an unfair play? Or is he so intent on win-
ning that hate and unfairness find full sway?
Mind, soul and body, all that the boy has, so far
as it is now pertinently organized in him for
effectual action, is engaged in that one act. And
—be sure of this—the learning effects extend
as far as does the responding. As he is respond-
ing all over and through, so he is building, or re-
building, himself all over and through. Bodily
movements, thinking, feeling, glands of internal
secretion—all cooperate to make the act a suc-
cess, and learning accompanies accordingly. All
that cooperated toward success——-as the boy sees
it— is joined the better together for future coop-
eration for a like purpose next time. The learn-
ing effect depends on what the boy puts into the
act and how well he is satisfied with the outcome.

Responsibility of the Educator

What, then, shall we say is the part played by
athletics in education? It is exactly the part
played by athletics in the boy’s life. And here is
it true that as one thinketh in his heart, so is he
and so even stronger does he become? Do those
who have to do with athletics use athletics to help
the boys think, ever better and more defensiny
about life and athletics and the part of athletics
in life? If not, they are failing in their moral
duty as educators and are likely miseducating
these boys. Do they say in defense that they are
coaches and as such have to teach boys and girls
how to play the game, that morals and life and
thinking lie outside of their jobs? If so, they are
like the man told of recently in the papers who
practised shooting his rifle at a target hUng in his
New York apartment house window. He was
practising shooting; it was nothing to him that
the bullets shot up the people in the apartment
across the court. But the law holds each one
responsible for all the foreseeable consequences
of his acts. This man should have thought. If
coaches can reasonably foresee consequences to
morals—and they can —then they are as mor-
ally responsible for all these consequences as was
this man for his bullets. They can no more shut
their eyes to these moral results than could this
man ignore what his bullets did.

This is the essence of education, that the whole
personality is affected by all that one does. And
education is responsible for all the effects so far
as they can be discovered and controlled. The
obligation, too, is on all concerned: On the super—
intendent of schools and on the principal of the
school as to how they see athletics. On the citi—
zens and newspapernlen and how they use their
influence. On the principal and teachers as to
what kind of school spirit they try to build. On
the coaches and on those who train coaches as to
what ideals they actually uphold and what prac-
tices they advocate. On the boys and girls as to
whether they think and do the best they can.

Some Pertinent Questions

What now about health, and integration of
personality, and the better thinking? Keep in
mind that all these are for making life better
to live as we face the ever new and shifting
scene that life presents. All who are concerned
with directing education—principal, coach, and
all —should ask themselves: Are we considering
all the children under our care as we provide and
encourage athletics, or are we concerned only
with a few? As we provide public contests, are
we really seeking defensible educational effects
or are we simply putting on a popular show irre-
spective of educative effects? When we do have
contests, do we put all the responsibility on the
boys that they can educativer carry, or do the
coaches take so much on themselves that the
boys’ education is sacrificed to victory and to the
reputation of the coach? Do we remember that
always the whole child, the whole boy, is involved
and that always we are building not only body
but mind and morals as well? Do we in season
and out work always for the fullest, feasible con-
sideration by the boys and girls of what they are
about, that they may choose wisely what they
will play and when and how, so that they ever
grow in seeking and obeying the best insight
they can get?'

If we can answer these questions satisfactorily

we are—in my judgment—giving athletics their
proper place in modern education.

“The object of all education should be the same
—-namely, to provide for every person with whom
it comes in contact such training as he needs to
help him to earn a better living, and what is more,
to live a richer and more satisfying life.”—
George P. H ambrecht.

 

At the earliest hint of spring the boys
and girls of America, with astonishing
speed, mobilize their forces for play.

ITH the first sign of spring an army of
Wyoung players invades closet shelves and

other places which during the winter have
been the hibernating quarters of roller skates,
marbles and all the play material
which make the spring and early
summer months one of the hap-
piest times of the year.

The Jump Rope Goes into
Action

And the first search, with the
girls at least, may be for last
year’s jump rope; or perhaps the
family clothes line suddenly he-
comes very much abbreviated:

In a number of cities jump
rope contests are popular. Girls
from tWenty-five winter play-
grounds in Dallas, Texas, com-
peted in the first jump rope
tournament ever held under the
auspices of the Dallas Park Department. With
the first sunny days in March, ambitious rope
'jumpers began practice for the elimination
matches held in each park for the selection of
the most agile hoppers to be entered in the finals
held in March. Contestants were divided into
three groups according to age—juniors, under ten
years of age; intermediates, from ten to fifteen;
seniors, fifteen years and over. Six events were
scheduled for the first two groups and nine for
the seniors, with an additional “hot pepper”
event in case of a tie.

The events were (1) Jump ten times flat-

Popular

' Spring-Tournaments

footed (run in). (2) Jump ten times single—
footed (first one foot, then the other). (3)
“Lady Bug”. (4) Run in and jump ten times
on one foot. (5) “Run in back door,” jump once,
run out. (6) Run in, jump three times (free
style) and “hot pepper” ten times. Three further
events on tap for the seniors were (7) Run in
and climb ladder. (8) Run in, turn completely
around on third jump, run out. (9) Run in front,

 

Courtesy of Evanston, Illinois, Bureau of Recreation

They surmount obstacles, straddle lines and
perform hazardous stunts with perfect ease!

jump three slow, three “hot pepper,” three high
waters, three slow, run out'.

The Little Rock, Arkansas, Recreation Com-
mission offers young participants a number of
games and stunts:

JUMPING

1. Keep the Kettle Boiling, or Jumping in a
File. Ropes are placed at suitable intervals
around the playground, or radiating from the
center. The players form in two’s, three’s or
four’s, and at a signal all run round the course,

651

652 POPULAR SPRING TOURNAMENTS

jumping each rope in turn. The object of the
game is to get the jumping continuous; the ropes
should therefore be quite low at first. Later they
may be raised slightly, but they should be ad-
justed to the capacity of the weakest jumper.
2. Over the Swinging Rope. The ropes, ar-
ranged as in No. I, are swung slowly from side
to side, and the players must judge their jumps
accordingly. Later, the difficulity may be in-
creased by changing the rate of the swing.

3. Serpents, or Over the Waves. \Vaves are
made in the ropes by.one turner at each moving
his arm upward and downward, slowly or quickly
at will. Players jump over the ropes, watching
carefully, as the height and speed of the waves
will probably be different at each rope.

4. Over and Under. The players jump over
one rope and crawl under the next.

5. Steps. The ropes are arranged in increasing
heights.

Competition. Contests may be arranged, e.g.,
by running a team at a time, one or more times
round the course, and counting the number of
players who succeed in clearing all the jumps, or
the time taken by the whole team to complete

the round.

SKIPPING

NOTE. The number of players to each rope should not
be more than 6-8, and each player should take a share
in the turning. If larger numbers must take part, long

rapes should be used.

1. All in Together. As the name implies, the
children enter as quickly as they can and try to
continue skipping until all are in. Directly the
last player enters, count is kept of the number of
skips that are kept up.

NOTE. The easiest way to enter is from the side.

2. Running in. The children, in groups of five
or more, run in from a little distance, and then.

after a certain
n u m b e r of
skips, out again
without check-
ing the rope.

V a r i a t i o n
—— O 22 e r the
Moon. Both the
preceding games
can be t a k en
with the r o p e
t u r n e (1 back-
ward.

 

Courtesy Pasadena Recreation Department

3. Salt, Mustard, Vinegar, Pepper. The chil-
dren run in, and when all are in they say: “Salt,
Mustard, Vinegar, Pepper.” At the word “Pep-

H

per, the rcpe is gradually turned faster and
faster.

4. French Almond Rock. The players jump
over the rope as it swings from side to side, say-
ing the following rhyme: “Handy-pandy sugardy
candy. French almond rock.” Then the rhyme
is repeated while the players skip in the usual
way. Then all crouch down while the rope is
turned over their heads, to the same rhyme. On
the last word, “rock,” the players rise and the
rhyme is repeated for the third time while they
skip. The entire process may be repeated, or the
first set of skippers may run out and a new
set begin. '

5. Higher and Higher. The rope is turned so
that is does not quite touch the ground and is very
gradually raised so that the players must jump or
lift their knees higher and higher to clear it.

6. Double Dutch. Two ropes are used. The
turners have a rope in each hand; they hold their
arms rather far apart and make the ropes touch
the ground alternately. The ropes may be turned
either inward or outward.

7. The following variation may be used with
the same arrangement of ropes as that given
for the Jumping and Skipping Games. The
ropes may be turned forward or backward, or
alternately, i.e., the first forward, the second
backward, and so on. The players run in single
file or in groups of two, three, or four together.

1. Running under the rope.

2. Jumping a certain number of times and
then running on to the next rope.
Different Steps and Movements Used in

Skipping: _

1. The ordin-
ary jump with
the rebound.

2. The jump
without the re-
bound.

3. Hopping 011
one foot.

4. Double up
0 r d o u b l e
through, i.e.,
two turns of the
r o p e t o o n e
spring.

POPULAR SPRING TOURNAMENTS 653

5. Any dancing step, e.g., reel step, etc.

Points for the Play Leader. The turning of the
rope for a large number should be well done, and
the play leader should encourage everyone to

take a share in this and learn to do it satisfac-
torily.

The Stilt Tournament

For the stilt tournaments conducted by the
Department of Parks and Recreation of Altoona,
Pennsylvania, the following diagram_ of play
space is used:

 

Contestants mount on stilts at “home” and
walk through court, dismount at “base,” re—
mount and return “home.”

Each player starts with Stunt No. I and if
successful, continues through the other stunts
until he fails. At his next turn he starts from
“home” on the stunt at which he failed. The
winner is the person completing all of the stunts
in the least number of turns.

STUNTS
1. Walk through court.

2. Walk without touching any of the lines on
the court. .

3. Walk straddling middle line.

4. Walk only in uneven numbered blocks,
straddling middle line. M

5. Walk with both stilts touching every block.
Fouls

1. Touching a line (except Stunt No. 1).
2. Touching outside of court.

3. To dismount before reaching “base” or
“home.”

4. Fouls count as a miss.

Spring Tournaments on the Chicago School
Playgrounds

During the latter part of April local roller
skating meets are held for the school playgrounds
of Chicago for both the boys’ and girls’ divisions
and the three best in each event are sent to the
finals held in Grant Park. There are three age
divisions—under fifteen, under twelve and under
ten. The events are dashes, coasts for distance, a

one skate race, couple race, relay and backward
skating.

Wagon and scooter races in two divisions——
boys under twelve and boys under ten—provide
fun for the children during the latter part of .
May. The events are coasts, dashes, relays, push
and coast and sit and coast. Marbles have come
back to Chicago as they have to many other
cities, while for the girls spring brings jack
stones, rope jumping, O’Leary, and a low organ-
ized games contest. The rope jumping contest
comprises hve exercises with a single rope and
five with a double. At a certain date eight play-
grounds meet at a central ground to compete.

The contest in low organized games is held in
May in two divisions—junior girls under fifteen
years and senior girls fifteen years and over.
These contests consist of a group of five games
played by a team of eight. They provide recrea-
tion for large groups and are free from the de—
tails and training that the more highly organized
activities require.

Hop Scotch bonnce ball, a combination of Hop
Scotch and O’Leary, is played during the late
spring by the very young children. Although
much practice and skill are required for this
simple game, it proves very fascinating to the
children.

A Bicycle Carnival

A bicycle carnival promoted by the Jackson-
ville, Florida, Playground Department, proved
very intriguing to the boys of that city. Events
included:

Decorated Wheel Parade Newspaper Throwing Contest
Tricycle Race Spearing the Ring

Trick Riding Scooter Race

Potato Race Plank Riding

Slow Race Candle Race

About a week before the carnival city bicycle
road racing championships were held. The junior
events included races of one-half mile, I mile, 2
miles, and 5 miles. The senior events were races
of one-half mile, I mile, 5 miles, and IO miles.
Juniors were riders under sixteen years of age;
Seniors, riders over sixteen years of age.

An Alley Cat Contest

No—not the usual pugilistic type, but a
peaceable exhibit of 222 cats, each in his own
box protected by a wire front. The only re—
quirement for this annual event in Baltimore
is that no cat shall have a pedigree! Balls, cat—
nip and rubber mice are the prizes offered.

Kites and Kite Tournaments

 

Courtesy Birmingham Park and Recreation Board

Very often the prankish March winds cause complications
requiring careful handling, but it’s all part of the game!

F all the early spring tournaments none is
more attractive to children than the kite
tournament, with the fun it means not only

in flying the kites but in making them.

A number of cities have issued instructions for
making kites. The Community Center Depart-
ment of the Public Schools of the District of
Columbia, suggests the following method of con-
struction:

Materials

1. Sticks. These may be obtained by splitting
up straight grained boards, or any woodworking
company or model aircraft supply company can
supply kite sticks. Dowel sticks from a hardware
'store may be used. Split bamboo is ideal for small
kites and even umbrella ribs can be used. ‘

2. String. The string should be light but
strong. _For very small kites, use linen thread;
for large kites fishing cord is good, also piano
wire.

3. Covering. The covering should be of paper
or cloth. Tissue paper can be used for kites up
to three feet in length and in moderate winds.
Wrapping paper should be used for larger kites.
The paper can be glued to the frame and the
strings.

654

There is plenty of testimony to
the fact that the airplane has
not wholly supplanted the kite.

 

Cloth has the advantage of being tougher than
paper but it must be treated with starch, airplane
dope, or rubber cement. It may be glued to the
frame and the strings but it should also be sewed.

Construction

Be sure to use good materials.

Take care to have the frame true and rigid.
It should be as light as is consistent with the
strength and rigidity in order that it may fly high.

It should be as exactly made as possible so that
it will fly true.

Be sure that corresponding dimensions are
alike.

Kites that are to fiy at extreme altitudes should
be cloth covered.

The tail of the kite should provide resistance,
not weight. It can be made of pieces of paper
tied into a length of string. Insert such papers
about a foot apart for as great a length as is re-
quired to balance the kite in the air.

The bridle is the method of connection between
the kite string and the kite surface. It is impor—
tant that it be properly made and adjusted.to the
amount of wind blowing.

Types of Kites

1. Square Kite. This is the'simplest kite to
make. Two sticks of equal length are needed.

KITES AND KITE TOURNAMENTS 655

Join them at right angles at their centers and
frame them with string. A good size would be
sticks, 30 inches long and 5/16 of an inch
square. The string should be wrapped tightly
around the joint at right angles to the edges
and finally carried around the lashing on the
plane where the sticks cross, to tighten the
joint. Glue can be used in such a joint. A cut
is made in the end of the stick and the framing
string forced therein. The string is then carried
around the end of the stick, again inserted in
the cut and carried on to the next end.

2. Eddy. This type is made of two sticks and
needs no tail. The two sticks are of equal length.
The sticks are lashed together at about one-fifth
of the length, at right angles, and are bounded
by an outline string. The horizontal stick is
bowed back a distance equal to the one-fifth
measurement and held in place by a string.

To cover: Lay the frame face down on the
paper and cut out shape with one' inch margin;
fold margin over and fasten down, being sure
to leave the cover rather loose at two spots
marked X.

The bridle is a simple string fastened at two
points, A and C, and long enough to reach to B,
at which point the kite string is attached.

As Morgantown Does It

The Department of Recreation, Morgantown,
West Virginia, School District has issued the fol-
lowing suggestions:

KITE CONSTRUCTION
The kite is usually made of a framework of

wood lashed together with cord, strung with cord '

according to design, and finally covered with
paper. In each case, however, some other mater-
ial may be substituted.

'The sticks for frames may consist of any
wood except hard wood, spruce being the best.
Good sizes are 3/16 inch by 3/3 inch by 3 feet;
1/4 inch by 1/2 inch by 4 feet; 3/3 inch by 1% inch
by 5 feet. These should be
straight grained and well
seasoned.

When two sticks are to be
fastened together, instead of
nailing with a small brad,
they should be lashed. First
wind diagonally around both
5 tick s in both directions
then wind b e t' w e e n stick
around the other windings.
Coat over with glue or

Rules for kite tournaments generally
provide that kites must be in the air for
at least a minute, and in most instances
it is required that the contestant must
have made his own kite. The flyer of
the kite is generally permitted a helper.
Other suggestions for conducting kite
tournaments, including the classification
of contestants, eVents, scoring system 6
and the arrangement of the field, are of- '
fared in a bulletin entitled "Kite Tourna-
ments" issued by the N. R. A. $.10.

shellac. Symmetry is so necessary in the making
of a good kite that the string becomes an impor-
tant factor. A small hard twisted cotton cord is
good for stringing as it does not stretch.

For the covering tissue paper is more generally
used than any other paper. Cheap tissue paper
may be found in all shades and tints of colors.
French tissues are more durable and brilliant.
Chinese tissue paper is the strongest of all tissues
in one direction. It should be used so as to bring
the lengthway of the paper in the direction of the
greatest strain.

The bridle is a very important part of kite
equipment as the kite is dependent on it for the
proper distribution of pull by the kite line; it' also
gives the inclination of the exposed surface to
the breeze. To make the kite fly directly over-
head, the kite line is attached above the normal
point'; to make it fly low, the attachment should
be below the normal.

A three or four ply cotton wrapping cord used
as kite lines is very satisfactory for three foot
kites or smaller. It is best to wind the cord on
a reel.

A tail and other balancers are used to give
poise to an otherwise unsteady kite. It may be
made with a string with a number of pieces of
paper folded and tied thereon with cloth stream-
ers on the end for weight.

ENTREES FOR TOURNAMENT

1. Steadiest Flying Tailless Kite' (Open to
any box, bow or other kind of kite not dependent
on a tail or balancer for stability.)

2. Largest Kite. (Must be of the single plane
variety.)

3. Most Artistic Kite. (To be judged by artis-
try of design, beauty of construction and grace-
fulness in flight.)

4. M 0st Unique Kite. (To be judged by odd,
striking or novel features. Artistic kites are not
eligible. May be a flying
display of several kites on
one string.)

5. Best Character Kite.
(Replicas of living beings
or animals. Kit'es entered in
events three and four not

eligible.)

lOO—Yard Dash. (A
small kite is launched at the
end of a fifty yard string.

656 KITES AND KITE TOURNAMENTS

The flyer runs fifty yards to the reeling line and
reels the string in on a single stick, figure of
eight style.

RULES

1. All kites must fly one minute.

2. Each contestant will be allowed one
helper if he desires.

3. Participants may enter a kite in as many
events as he chooses.

4. The tournament is Open to any boy 12 to
16 years inclusive.

5. All kites must be home-made except in
events one and six.

6. The individual flying a kite is not neces-
sarily required to have made it.

7. Ribbons will be awarded for hrst, second
and third places.

Kite Flying in Little Rock

The events in the kite flying tournament
conducted by the Recreation Commission of
Little Rock, Arkansas, consisted of the fol-
lowing:

Flying for altitude (height); home-made

kites: '

Event 1, Junior boys; 2, Senior boys; 3,
Girls.
Flying for altitude (height); purchased
kites:
Event 4, Junior boys; 5, Senior boys; 0,
Girls.
Flying for altitude (height); fancy or
unique kites; home-made:
Event 7, Junior boys; 8, Senior boys;
9, Girls.
Design and workmanship — plain kites;

home-made:

Event 10, Junior boys; 11, Senior boys;
12, Girls.

Design and workmanship — fancy kites;
home-made:

Event 13, Junior boys; 14, Senior boys;
15, Girls.

Event 16, Most unique kite in fancy kite
events; open to all.

Event 17, Largest kite that will fly; open
to all.

Event 18, Smallest kite that will fly; open
to all.

Classes

Junior—under 12 years of age. Senior—12

years or older.

Jacksonville’s Tournament

The seventh annual kite tournament held
in Jacksonville, Florida, was conducted on a
definite time schedule.

10:00 A. M.—Picture of all contestants. No
kites will be flown until after the pic-
ture is taken.

10:15 A. M.-—Altitude Race. Each contestant
will fly his kite on one hundred yards of
string, and the kite flying at the highest
angle (nearest overhead) will be declared
the winner.

10:30 A. M.—Steadiest Tailless Kite. This event

is open to any box, bow or other kind of
kite not dependent on a tail or a balancer
for stability.

10:45 A. M.—Best Insect, Bird, Animal or Man
Kite. These will be judged principally by
their resemblance to the characters por-
trayed.

11:00 A. M.—Largest Kite.
single plane variety.

Must be of the

11:15 A. M.—-Most Artistic Kite. Judged by
artistry of design, beauty of construction

and gracefulness in flight.

11:30 A. M.——-100 Yard Dash. A box kite is
launched at' the end of a 50 yard string;
the flyer runs 50 yards to the reeling line
where he reels in, on an overhand, non-
geared reel, not exceeding 22 inches in
circumference, the fifty yards of string.
Any kite touching the ground more than
25 feet from the reeling line will be dis-
qualified.

NOTE. A number of patterns for making kites as well

as toys and articles of many kinds will be found in
“Handcraft,” published by the N. R. A. ($1.50)

A wealth of suggestions for spring and summer activi-
ties, contests and tournaments involving not only physical
activities but handcraft, music, drama and art, are incor—

porated in another publication of the Association, known
as “88 Successful Play Activities.” ($.60)

A City-Wide Boat

Courtesy Union County, N. J.
Park System

“Sailing, Sailing, Over the Bounding Main” will be the
popular theme song this summer on many a playground!

ANDCRAFT is one of the major activities of
H the playground program maintained by the
Public Recreation Commission of Cincin—

nati, Ohio. Last year twenty-seven of the muni-
cipal playgrounds offered this opportunity to
boys of the city, and at each of the centers the
groups were as large as facilities could accomo-
date. The activity was organized in the same
way as any other major activity, the boys work»
ing at specific times in organized groups under
the leadership of a special worker. An exception
to this rule was made when a boy had proved
himself especially skillful and was willing to take
over the leadership of a small group at times
when the instructor was busy with other activi—

 

The building and sailing of boats
are important and popular proiects

in the play program oi- Cincinnati.

t‘ies. The instructor, or the boy who served as
assistant, was always present with the group
when they were at work so that assistance and
instruction could be given, loss of equipment and
supplies prevented and the possibility of accidents
eliminated. _

To facilitate the work further, a supervisor of
handcraft was employed to give assistance to the

657

658 A CITY-WIDE BOAT SAILING CONTEST

individual instructors and to their groups. It
was his duty to supervise the equipment, seeing
that it was kept properly conditioned, furnishing
the necessary supplies, and serving in any capac-
ity which would promote the work. The equip-
ment for the boys’ work consisted of a rigidly
constructed portable work bench with a tool
cabinet beneath, a minimum equipment of recog-
nized standard tools, a portable table and saw
horse. Each center was supplied with a hand-
craft book and a set of prints containing a large
number of suggested projects which might be
carried out by boys of playground age.

Boat Building and Sailing

Building of boats has been one of the most
popular handcraft activities for boys. There is
a skill required in the construction and sailing of
boats which in itself is interesting. There is also
an opportunity for furthering this interest
through early tournaments held to exhibit the
various efforts in construction and design. These
contests have an additional usefulness in bringing
together a large number of boys and girls in a
great outdoor social event. So valuable has the
event proved to be in Cincinnati that the Public
Recreation Commission is fostering it as one of
the outstanding projects.

On August 17th the third annual boat contest
was held at Inwood Park Lake. Each contest
has shown a marked increase in enthusiasm and
number of entries as well as in improved work-
manship, skill and ingenuity in the construction
of the boats. At the beginning of the season the
boys are told of the annual contest and many
start their models at an early‘date, though the
majority wait until a few weeks before the event,
when each center is given a list of the events and
a blank to fill out' estimating the number of en.-
tries. This blank is filled out by the instructor
and returned to the director in order to encour-
age the various centers to secure as many entries
as possible. Last year there were about two hun-
dred boats entered in the contest, each boat being
eligible for as many events as the rules provided.

RULES

1. A boat may be entered in more than one
event but can only receive one award of
recognition. If, for example, a boat is
awarded a place in the “lst event,” it
would be ruled out for competition in the
“3rd event.”

2. No boat should be entered unless it has
been constructed in whole or in part on
the playground.

3. A boy may enter more than one boat in

the contest; each boat being subject to
Rule 1.

4. Any boy is eligible to enter a boat in the
contest who has been properly registered
on any playground in the city.

EVENTS

1. Who has the best “sailing sail boat”?
(Judged by a boat race.)

2. Who has the best “show boat”? (Boats
that are used for decorative purposes

only.)

3. Who has the best “constructed boat”?
(Judged for workmanship and not for
sailing qualities.)

4. Who has the “largest boat”?

5. \Vho has the “smallest boat” that will
sail?

6. Who has the best sailing “motor pro-
pelled boat”? (Judged by a boat race.)

In each of the above events four awards
were given in the fOrm of ribbons, the color
of these ribbons being appropriate to the
place for which they were awarded in the
event. They were printed with the usual iden-
tifying phrase and the Seal .of Cincinnati.

The events were all held the same day and
presided over by a group of judges who were
selected because of their experience with boys
in the public school shops. The boys from the
various centers were accompanied by their in-
structor who in turn was able to lend valuable
assistance in conducting the contest.

In viewing these boats one could not help
note the many different types and models
which were displayed. Each boat was the re-
sult of the boy’s own ideas carried out under
the careful supervision of his instructor.

NOTE. From the N. R. A. may be secured patterns
for making three types of paper bOats—a canoe, a Viking
ship and a motor boat. Price $.20.

, Roller Skating

Contests

 

Courtesy Board of Park Commissioners, Minneapolis

When spring comes, the roller skates
which during the winter have played
"second Fiddle" to ice skates, are
taken out, and mode ready For action.

NE of the most exciting and best played
0 street games in the Chelsea district of New

York City is roller skate hockey. For a
number of years various boys’ clubs of the Hud—
son Guild Settlement have formed hockey teams,
playing with other teams of the neighborhood.
These unorganized games, with no pre-deter-
mined schedule, rules or oflicials, usually resulted

in free—for—all fights over some technicality, and ‘

because permission was not secured to block off
the street there was a great deal of danger from
passing cars. But this year, as a part of the sports
program for the Guild’s boys clubs, a league was
organized for the roller skate hockey teams. The
organization and functioning of the league are
described by Dan Carpenter, a student at the
National Recreation School, and Charles Decker
of Hudson Guild, who were responsible for
initiating the league.

A Roller Skate Hockey League in New York

The executive body of the organization is the
League Council which consists of two represen-

lt’s a proud moment in a boy’s life when he receives
his friends’ congratulations on winning the races!

tatives, preferably the captain and manager, from
each team participating in the League. Two mem-
bers of the Boys Club staff are ex-officio mem-
bers of this body. The Council meets once every
two weeks, but may be called together at any
time when a question concerning the League
arises. Its important duties, however, come at
the beginning of the season when the schedule is
drawn up and rules adopted. It also decides on
eligibilities and picks the ochials for the games.
This Council is a very vital part of the League
as it gives the boys a chance to voice their opin-
ions on various disputes and makes for more‘in-
terest in the welfare of the League on the part
of the clubs.

The League is divided into two classes—the
junior division in which the age limit of players
is 16 years, and the senior division with no set
limit as to age, although an effort is made to keep
the age under 20 years. Eight teams are entered
in the present round of play, four from each of
the two classes, and two games are played on
Sunday afternoons—one in each class.

The rules that pertain to the playing of the
game are practically the same as those that gov-
ern regular hockey with the following exceptions:

I. In the junior division there are three peri-
ods of play, each period lasting I5 minutes; in
the senior division there are also three periods,
but each lasts 20 minutes.

659

660 ROLLER SKATING CONTESTS

2. There is no play behind the
goals. If the puck is driven behind
a goal, play is resumed with the
team defending that goal ‘taking
the puck.

3. The playing field is 200 feet
long and the curb of the street
serves as out—of—bounds.

The special rules that govern
the organization of the League, as
drawn up by the Council, are as
follows:

' I. $1.00 entrance fee for each team. This .is to
cover 'the cost of awards and also to guarantee
the appearance of the teams.

2. Junior and senior teams alternate each Sun-
day in playing first and second games. This rul-
ing grew out of a controversy about its being
unfair for either the juniors or seniors to get
their players around so early Sunday afternoons
throughout the season.

3. Any team failing to have six men ready to
play 15 minutes after scheduled time of game will
forfeit that game. Two forfeits will automati-
cally expel a team from the League.

4. Each team must have a list of the players it
will use throughout the season and hand this list
into the League Council one week prior to the
opening game. This ruling is to prevent the
teams from recruiting players from outside clubs.

5. In case a team plays an ineligible man the
opposing team has the right to protest the game.
After every game the list of players used by each
team is checked with the original list.

It is interesting to mention here the way in
which the schedule was drawn up. The schedule
was outlined beforehand, but in place of the
teams’ names the letters A, B, C, D were entered
in the brackets. These letters were placed in a
hat and at a Council meeting one of the team’s
representatives drew the letter from the hat which
indicated his team’s place on the schedule. This
method met the approval of the boys and there
were none of the usual “kicks” registered, such
as: “That schedule was a f rame-up,” or, “We got
‘chiseled’ by having to play the best team first.”

The “Round-robin” system of tournament play
is used, each team in a class playing the others
once. The standing of the teams is figured on the
percentage basis and posted each week on the

"Weather clear, troclz Fast!"
Skates will be oiled and exam-
ined critically For hot boxes
by skating devotees in prep-
arotion for the roller skating
tournament to be held on
April second under the ous-
pices of the Division at Re-
creation, Louisville. The whir
of skates will soon be heard

daily on streets roped off by
the Police Department.

main bulletin board in the Guild.
Individual scoring records are also
kept and posted.

Through the cooperation of the
New York City Police Depart-
ment, Twenty-seventh Street is
blocked between Ninth and Tenth
Avenues, while the games are in
progress, thus insuring against
danger from passing cars. As far
as we can learn, this is the first
time that the Police Department has cooperated
in completely blocking a street so that a street
game could be played.

The expenses of equipment for the game is
almost entirely an individual matter and amounts
to very little. The boys buy their own skates,
hockey sticks, and pucks, and “rig up” their uni-
forms. These “uniforms” are usually very pic-
turesque. A typical goalee stretched out in front
of his goal lighting for the puck, wears his moth-
er’s discarded blankets wrapped around his legs
for shin guards, three or four sweaters to protect
his arms, a baseball catcher’s chest protector, and
numerous other pieces of clothing for protection

' purposes. The other boys wear shin guards of

wood or of felt, which they place under their
stockings or tie around their legs. Gloves, some-
times three or four pairs, are frequently worn to
protect the hands.

The necessity of this equipment is quite ap-
parent to anyone who watches the game because
the play is nearly as fast and every bit as hard
played as ice hockey. The game is kept as clean as
possible, but nevertheless it is hard to eliminate
personal contact and an occasional crash on the
shin when two or three players dash at breakneck
speed after the puck, or when the defense is light-
ing hard to turn back an onrushing offensive at-
tack. Much courage and alertness are required
for a goalee to protect his net with sticks swing-
ing toward him from every angle, but he does not
flinch! If the puck gets into the net, he takes it
like a true sportsman and fights the harder the
next time.

The game is truly a great activity. It develops
in the boy several of the fundamental skills, such
as balance, locomotion, striking, timing, dodging
and co-ordination of brain and muscle. At the
same time, it brings out those qualities necessary
in life, such as sportsmanship, courage, endur-
ance, aggressiveness and alertness. The appeal of

ROLLER SKATING CONTESTS 661

the game is so great that several
former basketball enthusiasts
have now given up the hardwood
courts to play roller skate hockey
in the street.

When the season is finished
the Council, in cooperation with
Mr. McCloskey of the Boys Club
Staff, will sponsor a banquet for
the clubs in the League. Awards
will be presented to the winning
teams at this banquet, 'and Les
Patrick and other stars of the
New York Rangers hockey team
will talk to the boys about
their experiences in professional ~
hockey.

In Other Cities

New York, with its well or-
ganized roller skate hockey
league, is not the only city where
roller skating is popular, though
for the most part the organiza-
tion in these cities is simple and
the program is confined to skat-
ing meets and contests.

Belleville’s Contest
In Belleville, New Jersey, the

Recreation Commission and the Lions Club com—
bined last spring in putting on a meet which was
governed by many of the same rules used for
track meets. No boy was permitted to enter more
than two events and there were three classes or
divisions—boys 9 and 10 Years ; II and 12 years;
I 3 and 14 years.

The following events were run off :

(I) Dash. Skate from one point to another as
fast as possible.

(2) Relay. Have four boys on a team. Num-
ber them I, 2, 3, and 4. Numbers I and 3 stand
at one point and Numbers 2 and 4 stand at an-
other. To start, Number I skates to Number 2,
then Number 2 skates to where Number 3 is sta-
tioned, Number 3 skates to Number 4, and Num—
ber 4 skates to point from which Number I
started.

(3) Change S leates Novelty Relay. Same as a'
relay, except that the team has only one pair of
skates and when Number I skates to Number 2
he gives Number 2 his skates; Number 2 skates

 

Courtesy Board of Park Commissioners, Minneapolis

Roller skating races are always popular, but there are
other events on wheels which also challenge interest.

to Number 3 and gives Number 3 his skates,
who skates to Number 4, etc.

(4) Hurdles. Same as a dash except that par-
ticipants jump over small objects not over 8
inches high.

(5) Obstacle Race. Similar to dash. Contest-
ants crawl through a barrel, jump over a box, or
do something of that type on their way to the end.

(6) Three Legged Race. Two boys take part.
One puts a skate on his left foot' and the other
boy puts one on his right, and they tie their
skateless feet together. The boys use the feet
that are tied together to push with, while they
coast on the two that have skates on.

(7) Wheelbarrow Race. (Two boys). One
boy has skates on his feet- and the other has
them on his hands. (He can hold on to them or
tie them to his hands). The boy with skates on
his feet catches the legs of the other one and
while holding them in the air pushes his partner,
who has his hands with skates on, on the ground,

to a certain place or point.
( Continued on page 690)

When Four Hundred PeOple Play Together

There is a challenge to recreation

leadership in the conduct of social

J'J‘IN

" 9': ' n...-

actrvrty programs for large groups.
“3‘19?

H '1‘ will be so helpful if we can get four or
five hundred delegates into a play pro-
gram on the opening night of the Con-

gress. For many, this will be‘the first atten-

dance at a Congress. We want them to feel
at once that they ‘b‘élong’fg that this is their

‘show,’ that just as we do h‘avezcommon prob-

lems, similar responsibilities, and equal oppor-

tunities on the job, so also can we share
experiences in our social, recreational life.

Let’s play together!” 1

Three or four hundred adults? At once? In
the same hall? That has an interesting chal-

lenge. Certain problems occurred at once. A

number of activities, adaptable for la r gc

groups, could not be used because of frequent
use on previous occasions. Games, as well as
songs, can be done to death. Mass activities
involving strenuous physical activity would
not fit the situation. Dances in which difficult
technical steps were found would soon lose the
interest of many in the group. Quiet games
or activities involving close attention or a sub-
dued setting would lose out in the environment
of a huge hall, large crowd, and noisy onlook-
ers. It seemed best to elminate games requir-
ing equipment or supplies as far as possible.

The purpose of the Play Hour, again, was to

provide an evening of joyous, wholesome,

happy play that would secure a genuine feel-
ing of group sociability.

The plan of activities as conducted followed
this form:

A. INFORMAL GRAND MARCH

1. The crowd was about equally divided.
The men formed a file on one side of the hall

662

The problem which was presented
at the Recreation Congress of
bringing into the play hour about
Four hundred peeple is one which
is continually duplicated at con-
ventions and other large gather-
ings. Arthur T. Noren ol: the
N.R.A., who was in general charge
of the play hour and who had the
assistance of a number of the
delegates as game leaders, tells
how the problem was met.

and the girls on the other, both facing the
front of the hall, where the director stood.

2. The files separated, the leaders taking
them along the wall to the back of the hall
where the two files met and came up the cen-
ter by two’s (in partners).

3. When the double files reached the front
end of the hall, partners stayed together and
alternated, the first couple going to the right,
the second to the left, third to the right, and
so on. When the two files of couples met at
the back of the hall, they came up the center
by four’s.

4. When the files of four reached the front
end of the hall, they divided in two’s again,
one file of couples turning to the right, the
other to the left. When the two files of part-
ners met at the back of the hall, they con-
tinued marching toward each other and the
file at the director’s right formed a bridge by
joining inside hands and holding them up
high, under which the opposite file marched.

(Both files of couples continued to march
forward.)

When the two files met at the front of the
hall, the opposite file formed a bridge under
which the first file marched. The same was
repeated again, each file forming a bridge
twice. They met at the back of the hall and
came up the center by four’s. ‘

WHEN FOUR HUNDRED PEOPLE PLAY TOGETHER 663

5. Coming up the center
again by fours, dividing in the
middle by two’s each file of

couples turned back close upon tions, mixers,

its own line. The files turned

away from the center at each
end of the hall.

6. The files met and came
up the center of the hall in files
of two’s. From this formation
the files marched into a double
circle.

strangers.

This was used to overcome an apparent ti-
midity on the part of many to participate.
Lively, exhilarating march music kindled in
all a desire to get in line and march along.
Formal commands, the atmosphere of the drill
team, and the military attitude were all elimi—
nated. In step or out of step, they all held
hands or.took arms, whistled, sang, or clapped
hands to the rhythm. The two men and women
at the head of the lines had been previously
instructed in the simple formations to be used,
The leaders understood the directions, the rest
simply followed, and there was no need to
worry about the possibility of having to
straighten out a maze of marching lines.
Assistants, placed at each end of the hall,
waved simple traffic officer directions, and in-
sured the success of the start of ‘the'program.

B. OP'POSITES—l-a mixer—double circle fOrma-
tion facing partners. Inside circle was numj
bered one, and the outside circle was numbered
two.

1. Nose and 'ear— the nose was grasped
with the right hand. The right ear was grasped
with the left hand. At the signal, “change,”
the nose was grasped by the left hand, and "the
left ear by the right hand. The positions were
first' taken by the Number One group, who
changed at the leader’s command. Considerable
amusement was-provided for the Number Two
group.“ The actions were then repeated by'the
Number Two group: in order to entertain group
Number one."

2. Rub stomach, pat head—with the right
hand, a clock-wise, circular movement was
made on the stomach, with the left hand, an at-
tempt was made to pat, the top of the head. These
movements were made simultaneously. The ac-
tions were first gone through by group Number
One. At the command, “change,” the opposite
action with each hand was attempted, Group

There are many types of activi-
ties which can be adapted to
large group use-march forma-
singing games,
folk games, novelty stunts and

All these and

many others in the hands of
skillful leaders can be used to
create an atmOSphere of friend-
liness among people heretofore

folk dances.

Number Two then went through
the movements.

3. Invert hands —— Crossing
the hands in front of the body,
the fingers of both hands were
interlocked. The hands were
then brought toward the body
and out, so that the back of
the fingers were uppermost.
This was done by those in
group Number One. The_'op-
posite partner in group Num-
ber Two pointed (being careful not.to touch
the finger) to a finger which he wished Num-
ber One to move. This was done several times.

Usually the finger opposite the one pointed at
moved.

4. Knock off the hand—Closing the l'lStS
of each hand, the right fist was placed above
the left. The elbows were extended in opposite
directions); This was done by thoser‘in group
Number One.‘ The opposite partner in group
Number Two attempted to break apart "the
lists by hitting at the point of contact of the
lists with" his index finger. If done correctly,
Number One could not prevent his lists from
coming apart. The leader ,tricked his own

victim by placing the thumb "of the lower hand
inside the fist of the upper hand.  ' {j

5. Circle leg clockv-wise, make figure six
with hand—f—With the left leg making a circuf
lar movement in clock-wise direction, 7a simi
ultaneous attempt wasmade to traCe a“1a§ge
figure six with the right han'd.' 

6. Elk‘ sign and violin—Those in group
Number One placed the thumbs of the right
and left hands in the right-and left. ears re-
spectively. The, fingers of each hand were
'spread out forming the so-called elk sign.
Those in group Number Two asSumed a pan-
tomime position of playing a violin. The ac-
tion was started by Number One, and, at any
time he wished, he took the position of Num-
ber Two, who immediately assumed the posi-
tion of Number One., The changes were done
quickly, causing considerable amusement and
confusion. The responsibility for the change
of action lay with the Number One group.

These stunts of coordination were used to
break down anti-social resistance quickly. In-
variably the difficulty of solving the seemingly
simple acts produced laughter from both the

664 WHEN FOUR HUNDRED PEOPLE PLAY TOGETHER

participant and the onlooker. Reversing the
situation added to the merriment. Moving one
place to the right brought new people face to face
for a new stunt. Stunts were selected that of-
fered some possibility of success, created a comic
picture, and retained the double circle formation.

C. HOW ARE YOUP—singing mixer—double
circle formation (Canadian delegates forming in-
ner circle, United States delegates the outer).

l. A simple greeting song was sung by the
United States delegates (outer circle).

“How do you do, Canadian friends, how do you do.
Is there anything that we can do for you?

We’ll do the best we can—stand by you to a man,
How do you do, Canadian friends, how do you do ?”

2. Response by Canadian delegates (sub-
stituting “American friends”).

3. Sung through several times by the en-
tire group of delegates:

“We’re all together again, we're here, we’re here,
We’re all together again, we’re here, we’re here,
Who knows when we’ll be all together again,
Singing all together again, we’re here, we’re here.”
The song leader here, in the spirit of the col-
lege cheer leader, without technical directions
or loss of time, got a lively, loud, generous
participation, each group applauding the other.

D. CONVERSATION —a mixer— double circle
marching in opposite directions. The march
was played until the whistle was blown; when
the music stopped, the circles faced, and each
person began to talk simultaneously with the
person Opposite him on these subjects:

!’

1. “My name is John Brown and . . . . . . —-
proceeding to introduce himself.

H

2. “People call me Sally because . . . . ..

3. “What do you think of Toronto?” “Why,
it’s the . . . . . .”

4. “I live in Texas. The climate there is

H

5. “My address is Jersey City. Look me
up . . . . ..”

After a minute, the whistle blew again, the
circle continued marching in the same direc-
tion as before until the five subjects for Con-
versation were covered.

*E. BINGO—singing, folk game, single circle.
Players formed a single circle, girls at the
right of partners.

This song was sung:

1. There was an old dog lay on the mill floor
And Bingo was his name.

2. B-I-N-G-O, B-I-N-G-O, B-I-N-G-O
And Bingo was his name.
CHORUS
3. B - I - N - G - 0 (Slowly spelt)
And Bingo was his name.

During the singing of 1 and 2, players cir-
cled to the left. At 3 they executed the grand
chain to the fifth person who became the next
partner, each letter being held long enough to
pass a player. Right hand was extended to
partner on “B,” left to the next on “I,” etc.
The “O” was a shout of pleasure at securing a
congenial partner for the next round.

The song and action were taught simultane-
ously. No time was wasted on preliminaries,
and the game was taught in several minutes.
At the point when interest lagged, after the
game had been kept going until it had been
thoroughly learned and enjoyed, it was st0p-
ped. The catchy tune was heard being whistl-
ed or hummed for days after the party.

*F. ACH JA—singing, folk game, double circle.

Partners joined adjacent hands, the man
with the left hand toward the center of the
circle and with the girl on the man’s right.
They walked to the right around the circle
four slow steps; partners then faced each other,
released hands and bowed very simply by
bending at the hips, on “Ja” (song below);
then they turned back to back and bowed
again on “Ja.” This was then repeated from
the beginning.

On the Chorus, partners joined both hands
and moved to the man’s left, stepped to the
side, then stOpped, bringing the feet together
(step, close) and so on for four steps and fin-
ishing with the bows as before. It was re-
peated, moving in the opposite direction. Then
each man moved forward taking the next girl
as partner, and the whole dance was repeated.

The words of the song are as follows:

“Wenn der Vater und die Mutter
In die Kirche weite gehen
Ach jal Ach jal
Und haben wir kein Geld,
So hab’n die ander’ Leut’.
Ach jal Ach jal”

*Handy No. 2—Social Recreation Union, Delaware,
Ohio.

WHEN FOUR HUNDRED PEOPLE PLAY TOGETHER 665

CHORUS

“Tra la la, tra la la, tra la la la la la la,

Tra la la, tra la la, tra la la la la la la,
Ach jal Ach jal”

In an earlier music period, by the use of a
slide, the words and the melody were sung
and learned. The German words were simple
and the translation would have detracted from
the song. Beginners hummed the words and
sang out on “Ach ja” and the Chorus. The
tempo was leisu'i'ely as a “couple strolling alOng
under the trees, hand in hand.”

G. STOCK EXCHANGE—a novelty stunt to form
equal groups.

Twenty sets of numbers from one to fifteen
were prepared on pieces of cardboard three
inches square. Each person in the group was
given one of these numbered cards. The num-
bers were passed through the group, each per-
son called out his own number, and soon the
hall took on the appearance of the Stock Ex—
change floor as the “one’s” attempted to find
all of their group, the “two’s” all of their’group,
and the “three’s” all of their group. After a
few hectic' minutes the various numbers col—
lected in units of fifteen in single file at a de-
signated point. Through this means the group
of three hundred quickly formed in teams of
fifteen in relay formation for the next series

of activities.

H. RELAYS—line formation, fifteen in each
column.

1. Turn and check——-At a signal, Number
One turned around and took the right hand of
the person behind him, shook the hand vigor—
ously twice, saying, “How-dy—do.” umber
Two turned and immediately repeated this
operation with Number Three, etc. The last
man in line running forward, at the end of the
game, shouted “How-dy—do” to the judge.

2. Running the scale——-The whole group
sang through the following words:

“There was a little pussy,
Its coat was silver gray,
He lived down in the meadow
And never ran away.
He’ll always be a pussy,
He’ll never be a cat,

For he’s a pussy willow.
Now what do you think of that?”

Following the last word of the verse, N um-
ber One of each line ran to a designated point

and starting with the first note of the scale,
sang “Meow,” returned to place and touched

.Number Two, who ran up forward, sang

“Meow” one note up ‘the scale, returned to
place, and touched Number Three. Each suc-
ceeding runner repeated this operation, until
the top of the scale was reached. The ninth
person and those following sang the same
word, but going down one note on the scale.
The team which first completed the relay,
having each member sing one note of the

"  .5cale, won.

3. Bean and straw pass—Every member
of each team received a soda straw and a
paper cup. Number One man had in his cup
ten ordinary white beans. At a signal, he
passed one bean at a time to the cup of the per-
son behind him by lifting the bean through suc-
tion of the straw. Each in turn passed the
beans to the person behind him. When the
last man had received the ten beans in his own
cup he ran forward to the head of the line.

GENERAL NOTE—To assist the judge in determ-
ining who the last man was, a paper hat
was placed on his head.

Following this series of relays, the group
was brought into double circle formation.

1. SIEBMSCHRI’I‘T (THE SEVEN STEP)
From Five Folk Dances, by Elizabeth Bur-
chenal. G. Schirmer, New York.

I. Goon NIGHT, LADIES—singing game, double
circle formation.
To the familiar tune of:

“Good night, ladies! Good night, ladies
Good night, ladies!
We’re going to leave you now.”

CHORUS
“Merrily we roll along, roll along, roll along,
Merrily we roll along, o’er the deep blue sea.”

Couples formed a circle, partners facing,
men on the inside. Outside circle stood still
on the verse, while the inside circle moved to
the left. On the first “Good night, ladies,” the
man shook hands with his partner. He then
moved left and shook hands with the next
lady, then with the next, and with the fourth
on “We’re going to leave you now.” He kept
this lady’s right hand and took her left also,
and all skipped around the circle while singing
the chorus. This was repeated four times,
bringing the program to a close.

Recent Developments
in the
International Recreation Congress

creation Congress less than six
months away, arrangements for
this significant world-wide meeting
on recreation are rapidly maturing.
The Program

The program committee is arrang-
ing for seven days filled with a vari-
ety of event designated to enrich the
experience of all who attend.

A world view of recreation will be
presented in a series of general ses-
sions, one each morning, addressed by authorities
from many nations who will speak on recreation
in their countries. There will be a group of meet-
ings each morning from 9:15-10:45 devoted to
the discussion of specific topics. Following the
presentation of talks by leaders there will be an
international exchange of experience.

The general evening sessions are to be ad-
dressed by men of international reputation.
Among those thus far scheduled are: Honorable
James Rolph, Jr., Governor of California, Count
de Baillet-Latour of Belgium, Chairman of In-
ternational Olympic Committee; Dr. Theodor

WITH the First International Re-

 

J. Sigfried Edstrom
Sweden

Lewald and Dr. Carl Diem, Presi-
dent and Secretary of the German
National Commission for Physical
Education, Germany; Honorable Al-
bert Thomas of France, Chairman of
National Committee on Leisure and
Director of International Labor
Bureau of the League of Nations;
Noel Curtis-Bennett, C.V.O., Treas-
urer of National Playing Fields As-
sociation, England. Others will be
announced later.

An important part of the program will be in
the nature of demonstrations being planned by
the Local Arrangement Committee. On Satur—
day, July 23, the opening night, a spectacular
water pageant, “The Enchanted Pool,” is to be
presented in the Olympic Swimming Stadium by
the Department of Playground and Recreation
of Los Angeles. On Sunday night, in the Holly-
wood Bowl, a massed music demonstration will
be given, including an amateur chorus of one
thousand voices, a massed band of several hun-
dred pieces, a community symphony orchestra,
and other music features. It will be an inspiring

Through the National Office of Physical Education

Sports Programs are Promoted Throughout Roumania.

 

Photo, M. ('esa, O. N. E. F.
(MD

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE RECREATION CONGRESS 667

experience to join with thousands in singing the
folk songs of other nations. On Monday night,
following the general evening session, all dele-
gates will join in a play demonstration. On Wed-
nesday night, in the picturesque Rose Bowl in
Pasadena, there will be staged an International
Play Day—exhibiting traditional games and folk
dances.

A generous amount of time is being left for a
series of tours being arranged by the Local Ar-
rangement Committee to visit and observe the
many recreation facilities and other attractive
features in and about Los Angeles.

.Special Train to Los Angeles

On Friday, July 15, the S.  Roosevelt will
arrive in New York bringing European delegates
for the Congress. The next day, Saturday, July
16, the Recreation ’Congress Special Party is
scheduled to leave (for Los Angeles. Four stop-
overs are scheduled in Chicago, Salt Lake City,
Oakland, and San Francisco where those on the
Special will be guests of local committees. It is
expected that delegates from New England, the
South and Middle West will join the Recreation
Congress Special and enjoy the advantages of
this organized tour and the hospitality and edu-
cational features to be provided.

The estimated cost of the round trip from New
York, including railroad fare, pullman, meals en
route, and room and meals‘in Los Angeles for
one week is approximately $300. From all points
west the cost is proportionately less. This is an
unusually low rate for a tour of the United
States and a week at the First International Re-
creation Congress. For the additional cost of
room and meals delegates may stay over for the
Olympic Games. Many are planning now to com-
bine this significant meeting with a vacation in
the West. Are you going to be there?

Among the Foreign Delegates

Among the foreign visitors at the headquarters
of the Congress Committee this month was the
Count de Baillet-Latour, the Belgian member on
the International Advisory Committee and Chair-
man of the International Olympic Committee.
The Count went over the detail plans, made valu-
able suggestions and expressed himself as being
delighted with the comprehensive plans thus far
made. He reported the keen interest being shown
in Belgium and other parts of Europe in the

Congress. The Count will be at Los Angeles and
will address the Congress.

As a result of the publicity about the Interna—
tional Recreation Congress in Japan and the
active interest of Russell Durgin, an American
who has lived a number of years in Japan, a

group of leaders, including Baron K. Yamakawa,
Dr. T. Iwahara, Professor B. Otani, Mr. K.

,Inoshita, Mr. D. Ogasawara, Mr. K. Yoshida,

Mr. T. Yanagita, met at the office of the Depart-
ment of Education of the Government and laid
plans for forming a Japanese Recreation Asso-
ciation. Mr. Durgin and other delegates from
Japan are planning to attend the Congress.

In Holland, Dr. W. P. Hubert van Blijenburgh,
a Congress enthusiast, is visiting a number of
cities and is organizing a party to attend the
Congress at Los Angeles and the Olympic Games.

Railroad Rates for Congress

Estimated cost round trip going in Special
Train to Los Angeles and returning by regular
train service, any route desired:

 

 

Estimate Estimate
From New York No.1 No.2
Round Trip Rail Fare . . . . . . . . . . ..$122.00 $122.00
Extra Fare, New York-Chicago. . . . 6.00 6.00
Pullman Berth, Oakland, California. 33.38 26.70
Pullman Seat, San Francisco-Los
Angeles, California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.25 2.25
Meals on Train,,G0ing . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.60 10.60
Meals at Stop-over Points . . . . . . . . . . 7-00 7.00
Hotel Room at Oakland, 1 Night... 2.50 2.00
Hotel Room at San Francisco, 1 ‘
Night . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.50 3.00
Room at Hotel Biltmore, Los An-
geles, 7 Days . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 35.00 24.50

Meals in Los Angeles, 7 Days . . . . . . 28.00 21.00

Tips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00 5.00

Incidentals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-00 5.00

Meals on Trains, Returning . . . . . . .. 18.00 18.00

Pullman Berth, Los Angeles-New
York, Returning Direct . . . . . . . .. 32.63 26.10
$315.86 $279.15

Estimate No. 1 includes: Lower berth, single room in
hotels, larger allowances for meals and incidentals.

Estimate No. 2 includes: Upper berth, two persons in a
room, and lower allowances for meals and incidentals.

Note No. 1: Diverse routes are permitted returning and
passengers are required to specify routes desired at
time of purchase. Tickets routed by special train on
going trip and returning via Portland, Seattle or
Canadian points, an additional fare of $8.00 will be
charged.

Note No. 2: Members who plan to remain over in Los
Angeles for the Olympics should add from $6.00 to
$9.00 per day or room and meals, plus admission to
the Olympic events.

New Members on the International Committee

Six representatives not reported upon before
have accepted membership on the International
Advisory Committee.

668

Ma. J. SIGFRID Ensmomot’ Vesteras,
Sweden, is one of Sweden’s lead-
ing industrialists. Since 1903 he has
been the Managing Director of the
Swedish General Electric Company,
as well as president of various other
industrial concerns in Sweden. He is
a member of the Swedish Academy of
Science of Engi-
neering and Vice-
President of the
Board and mem-
ber of the Execu-
tive Committee of
the International
Chamber of Com-
merce, a member
of the International
Olympic Commit-
tee, Vice-President
of the Swedish
Olympic Commit-
tee, and has been
President of the International Ama-
teur Athletic Federation since its
foundation in 1912.

Eon many years Colonel Virgil Ba-
dulescou has been interested in
Sports, recreation and physical educa-
tion. In preparation for his present
position of General Director of the
National Oche of Physical Education
for Roumania, Colonel Badulescou
studied in several
countries in Eu-

rope and during
the Balkan War

and the World War
took the leadership
in introducing phy-
sical education and
sports into the
army. For the last
ten years Colonel
Badulescou has de-

 

Enoc Aguado
Nicaragua

 

and amateurs go for sports and recre-
ation. A special training program for
winter sports is conducted annually
at Predeal in the Carpathians. Under
Colonel Badulescou's leadership, the
oflice has acquired and is acquiring
land which eventually will be used for
sports and recreation in almost all of
the cities and vil-
lages of the coun-
try. Colonel Ba-
dulescou hopes to
attend the Con-
gress.

Ma. A. W. Jas-

SOP, Director
of Barclays Bank
for Egypt, Sudan
and Palestine. Mu-
nicipal Councillor.
Mr. Jessop has
taken a great in-
terest in sport and recreation for the
past twenty-five years in Egypt, serv-
ing as President of the British Rifle
Club, Chairman of the Y. M. C. A.
Physical Committee, Vice-President
of Hawks Rugby Football Club, and
V ice-President of the Amateur Box-
ing Federation. Mr. JessOp is keenly
interested in the International Recre—
ation Congress and is spreading in-
formation about it in Egypt.

NOC AGUADO is
Vice - President
of the Republic of
Nicaragua. He has
been prominent in
the civic, educa-
tional, and political
affairs of Nicara-
gua, serving as
Dean of the fac-
ulty of Derecho del

 

Julio J. Rodriguez

 

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE RECREATION CONGRESS

Election Council, and a member of
the Reclamation Commission. Mr.

Aguado is one of the leading mem-
bers of the Liberal Party in Nica-
ragua and is very much interested
in the development of recreation for
his country.

JULIO J. Romu-
GUEZ, in addition
to training in his
own country, is a
graduate of
Springfield College
Springfield, Massa-
chusetts. He has
served as a Y. M.
C. A. leader, Di-
rector of Recrea-
tion, Director of
Physical Education
in Schools, and at
the present time is
General Technical Director of the Na-
tional Commission of Physical Educa-
tion for the Uruguayan Government.
Mr. Rodriguez has studied and work—
ed in South America, United States,
and Europe and has a broad training
and experience in play, recreation, and
physical education. As an organizer,
educator, executive, public official,
Mr. Rodriguez has made an important
contribution to the recreation move-
ment in Uruguay.

MR. D 1 M I 'r E R
LAZOV, Bulga-
rian member of the
International Ad-
visory Committee,
is chief of the De-
partment of Social
Welfare of the
Ministry of Inter-
ior of Bulgaria.

Uruguay

A. W. Jessop
Egypt

voted himself en-
tirely to promoting
physical education
and sports in Roumania resulting in the cre-
ation of the National Office of Physical Ed-
ucation—a state department which has es-
tablished a school of higher instruction in
physical education, a military institute of
physical education for officers, a pr0paganda
organization popularizing the practice of
physical education, sports, camping, and
other activities in the general field of re-
creation. Under his direction a recreation
center has been established at Techirghiol at
the border of ,the Black Sea where each year
in the summer time hundreds of children

Dimiter Lazov

He was formerly

55mm; 12:32::   of 
I nak,” the Bulga-
rian organization for physical education,

 

Col. Virgil l. Badulescou

Roumania

editor of Health and Strength, and at pre-
sent is President of the editorial committee
of Sport News. For many years Mr. Lazov
has been an active social worker and edu-
cator. Since the announcement of the First
International Recreation Congress Mr.
Lazov has been active in forming a group
of leaders in Bulgaria into a recreation
organization.

Mr. Lazov plans to attend the National
Recreation Congress and to visit a number
of American cities to study recreation.

A Benefit Circus

for the
Unemployed

By NATHAN L. MALLISON

Superintendent of Recreation
Jacksonville, Florida

It is hard work and there are many

problems, but it'siworth while, too!

HE playground circus has won a justly popu-
lar place for itself in the recreation program.

Why not such a circus, greatly magnified,
with an increased admission fee, presented as the
recreation department’s contribution to unemploy-
ment relief—one of the “drops” which with thou-
sands of others will help to make a “full bucket”?

Such a circus will accomplish a number of pur-
poses. It will provide entertainment and a con-
sciousness of helping for those who purchase the
tickets; it will draw into the. roster of performers
many who are unemployed and help break the
nervous strain under which they are laboring; it
will create a spirit of team play among the city
departments who are working with the recreation
department, andhnally, the funds raised will give
temporary employment to many, tiding them over
a serious period. And since in many municipali-
ties such relief labor is being
used to improve park and
recreatiOn areas, it will help
materially in beautifying the

All circuses are billed as
“monstrous productions.”
Superlatives have a large

part in circus publicity, but do it again!

While Mr. Mallison gives us in this

article a few of the technical details in-
volved in a circus with I,2oo performers,
city, it is not his purpose to tell how to run a
circus. It is intended, he himself states,
more as a general presentation of the
idea by one who had a part in producing
a benefit circus—and who would like to

 

Courtesy Red Cross Courier

If you’re going to rlsk your llfe,
why not do it In a good cause?

in the case of a benefit circus we mean a truly
mammoth spectacle! The price of admission ac-
cordingly rises from 10 cents to $1.00, and peo-
ple are glad to pay it. This type of mirth provok-
ing entertainment characterized by “augmented
acts in amazing abundance,” is also characterized
by plenty of hard work on the part of the organi-
zer who serves as “tail twister” for the whole
idea. The man of the hour in this case is the
recreation executive and his play leaders are the

power behind the throne.

Circus Organization

Speaking from experience, because the writer
has no other criterion, the following organization
is effective in the promotion of a benefit circus
for the unemployed:

Business M wager—This man should have
charge of the ticket sale and, if the circus is to
be the product of all city departments, should
 have a representative charged
with distributing tickets for
sale in each department or
bureau of the city. He
should not in any way be re-
sponsible for the program.

Producing Director—This
individual should be either
the recreation executive or

669

 

(570 .'l BENEFIT CIRCUS FOR THE UNEMPLOYEIJ

drama director and the responsibility of actually
training and producing the show is his. He acts
as master of ceremonies on the day of the circus,
but does it from “behind the scenes.” He sees
that the acts are ready to go on in proper sequence.

Announcer—In a circus of this magnitude, a
loud speaking system is advisable with telephonic
communication from the master of ceremonies
to the announcer. When an act is ready, the
master of ceremonies, using a Hash card with
numbers or his telephone, when possible, notifies
the announcer, “Act 66 now entering Ring N um-
ber 2” and the announcer proceeds with the usual
baHyhoo.

Section Leaders—All participants in the circus
should be seated in special stands with a section
leader and runner in charge of each group.
Groups may be numbered by acts or may be segre-
gated by type as: Ri-ng 1, Platform 1, Ring 2,
Arena, I‘Valk Aromzds, Raised Platform 2, and
Race numbers.

CostimieruThis person with his
assistants is given charge of all
costumes and pr0perties.

M ake-u p M aster—There should
be several of these applying the
make-up previous
to the Show.

General Attend-
ants—T h e duties
of ushers, ring at—
tendants, ticket tak-
ers, and other offi—
cials, are so well
known that they
will not be defined
here.

In actually start-
ing the circus, the
producing director
holds a meeting
with a committee
made up of one
representative from
c ach city depart-
ment. He suggests
a number of acts,
allowing t h e m to
choose the ones they
desire. A great deal
of hidden talent is
usually unearthed
during this proce-
d u r e . Committee-

Cauricsy Red Cross Courier

it’s pretty thrilling when you '
stand poised in mid-air ready
for that breath-taking stunt!

men in turn will suggest original acts which may
be entered on the program. Between the first and
second meeting of the committee, the director
should hold separate conferences with each de-
partment representative, advising him concerning
the details of his particular act. At the second
meeting with the committee, progress reports are
requested and real enthusiasm begins to manifest
itself. By this time the newspaper publicity re-
leased by the director has captured the public eye
and numerous professional acts will volunteer
their services. Jacksonville, Florida, in its circus
for the unemployed had talent ranging from tap
dancing students in local schools to stars of the
New York Hippodrome and continental theatres.
Many of these were unemployed and the circus
provided an emotional release in that it gave them
an Opportunity for the expression of their art.
Some secured short engagements as a result of
their appearance. Many citizens without dramatic

Fl .

 
  
 
  
   

J

The charge for ad-
mission will have to be
much more than two
cents at a benefit cir-
cus, but everyone will
be glad to pay a gener»
ous fee. And a well
managed circus means
a lot of fun for all!

A BENEFIT CIRCUS FOR THE UNEMPLOYED 671

ability volunteered for other jobs and lost them-
selves for awhile in the gay hurly—burly of circus
life. The nervous tension associated with weeks
of unemployment was broken and they were re-
laxed mentally and physically.

The ultimate objective, a fund to aid unem—
ployment, was materially helped by an advance
sale of tickets. Policemen, who usually give tick-
ets, proved most adept in selling them, and the
prospective purchaser was so delighted to dis-

cover he was not being presented with a parking
ticket that he was glad to make the purchase!

i' 'The Program
The Jacksonville program printed below is

shown, not as a model program, but as an instance
of a program that practically evolved itself. A
great deal of care must be taken by the director
in arranging the time sequence of acts on differ—
ent parts of the field so that a musical act on the
platform will not conflict with band music on
the field and vice versa.

Grand Opening—2 P. M.

Elevation of Aerial Ladder (Star Spangled Banner)
Grand Parade of All Participants

Platform Acts—In Order of Appearance—2:15 P.M.

Terpsichorean Trippers—Helen Beard School of Dancing
(Ten Numbers), of Green Cove Springs

Prrofessor Angelo Gonzololld—Strong Man—Confederate

ark
Tantalizing Tessie and Her Tap Dancers—City Fire Boat
Transylvanian Army on Parade—~Troop 15, Boy Scouts
of America

Rah-Rah Review—Bagaley School of Dramatics. (Three
numbers)

Batty Bicycle Boys—Norwood Playground

Sheldon’s Blue Ribbon Chorus of l931—Sheldon School
of Dancing

Buckshot Pete, the Sharpshooter—Norwood Playground

Hula Hula Hattie and Her Hawaiians—Troop 21, Boy
Scouts of America

The Volga Boatmen—Troop 40, Boy Scouts of America

Pritiriski and His Komical Kwartet—Lackawanna Play-
ground

William Tell—Norwood Playground

Highland Dance—Jacksonville Tourist Club

Roller Skating Bears—Riverside Playground

Levitation Lorenzo—Overcomes Gravity—TrOOp 3, Boy
Scouts of America

Field Acts—In Order of Appearance—2:15 P.M.

Concert and Fancy Drill—Edward C. DeSaussure Post
No. 9 Drum and Bugle Corps

Equestrian Drill Led by P. W. Taylor on His High
School Horse—Taylor Riding School

Calisthenics——-Fire Department

Castoria College v. Unicorn University (Football Clas-
sic)—Engineering Department

Exhibition of Equine Hurdling——-P. W. Taylor Riding
School

Figure Marching and Calisthenics—Police Department

Bingville Fire Department—Fire Department

Regulation Drill—Tr00p 12, Boy Scouts of America

Tattered Tumblers—Lackawanna Playground

Clown Baseball—Liberty Playground

High Pressure Demonstration—Fire Department

Jumping Into the Net—Fire Department

Tactics and Calisthenics—School Boy Safety Patrol—
Accompanied by the Recreation Department Drum and
Bugle Corps

Tug-of—War—Police Department v. Fire Department

Rajah, the Iron Jawed Man—Interstate Advertising Com-
pany

Crisco v. Mazola—Norwood Playground and East Jack-
sonville Playground (Chariot Race of Ancient Greece)

Three Legged Shinny Game—~East Jacksonville Play-
ground

Circus Ring Acts—In Order of Appearance—
2:15 P.M.

Senor Salami and the Barcelon Bull—Engineering De-
partment

Traflic Tangles—Police Department

Indian Idiosyncrasies—Jacksonville Council, Boy Scouts
of America

Dare-Devil Daphne, Death Defying Diver—Norwood
Playground

Trained Bear Act—Riverside Playground

Isadora, the Irish Elephant and Ikie, her Baby—Willow
Branch Playground

Zazarazabelle, the Arkansas Pie-faced Girane—DeSoto
Playground

Naomi, the Oskosh Ostrich—Riverside Playground

The Ga110ping Gazoodelumpus—Lackawanna Playground

Whooping Wampus Woofus—Liberty Playground

The Giggling Coops—Confederate Playground

Cantankerous Camels—Norwood Playground

Spark Plug and Halitosis—High School Horses

Wild and Wooly Wizard of the Jungle—DeSoto Play-
ground

Boxing Ring Acts-In Order of Appearance—
2:15 P.M.

Negro. Battle Royal—Five Caddies from the Municipal
Golf Course ‘

Young Siki v. Jax Tar Baby—Two Caddies from the
Municipal Golf Course

Tom Sharkey, 97 lbs. v. Fullie Jackson, 100 lbs., Four
Rounds

Freddie Bianco, 108 lbs. v. Joe Nassau, 110 lbs., Four
Rounds

Barrel Boxing Exhibition—Riverside Playground

Charlie Battle, 112 lbs. v. Julian Jackson, 113 lbs., Four
Rounds

Joe VVatus, 125 lb. v. Red Turner, 126 lbs., Four
Rounds

Wild Willie \Vhoozis v. Roaring Red Riley—Riverside
Playground.

Young Burkel v. WHO Four Rounds

Eddie Wilson, 118 lbs. v. Eddie Bass, 117 lbs., Four
Rounds

Midget Maloney v. Giant Gordon—City Garage

Tommy McGafferty, 165 lbs. v. Bill Sikes, 168 lbs., Four
Rounds

Big Bill SheHield, 190 lbs. v. Frank Mackery, 192 lbs.,
Four Rounds

Dick Gore, 145 lbs. v. J. B. Vinzant, 147 lbs., Four
Rounds

Walk Around Numbers

All Walk Around Numbers will participate in the pa-
rade around the arena at 2 RM. After that, they may
work in the audience and around the held. Straight acts
may be burlesqued by “Walk Arounds,” but should not
in any way be interfered with while being staged. Gen-
erally speaking, “Walk Arounds” should work in vacant
spots on the held. Remember the Show lasts three hours,
so you should rest some of the time. Don’t use all your
ammunition the iirst hour.

Female and Male Escort—Electric—Water Department
The Strong Pulling Little Dog—Riverside Playground
Maggie and J iggs—Norwood Playground

Peep Shows—East Jacksonville Playground

Goofy Gazook, the GolferhMunicipal Golf Course

John D., the Golf Player—Building Department

Largest Hot Dog in Captivity—Confederate Playground
Bearded Lady—DeSoto Playground

Half Man, Half Woman——Liberty Playground

Aunt Miranda—Water—Electric Department

(Continued on page 691)

Community Music

During the Depression

and After

By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG

National Recreation Association

UR first thought with respect to the possible
Ovalues of music in the present emergency is

likely to be of the need for sustaining and
heightening the morale of the people, eSpecially
of the unemployed. Along with this thought
comes the wish to give employment to the many
professional musicians—performers, leaders and
teachers—who are out of work and in distress.
We are interested, then, in finding out in what
ways people, especially, but not only, the unem-
ployed, may be helped to find for themselves in
increased measure the happiness and upbuilding
satisfactions of singing, playing or listening to
music; and also in finding out how capable per-
formers, leaders, and teachers among the unem-
ployed can be selected and helped to find engage-
ments that will bring to them the means of physi-
cal relief, and to others, as well as themselves,
music’s power of giving mental and emotional
relief and courage. For the latter benefit, capable
musicians who are not among the unemployed
will also need to be enlisted.

Some Principles of Procedure

Most unemployed men and women are com-
pletely preoccupied—many desperately so—with
the hunt for a job and for the bare necessities of
life, and with fears for the future. They, and
even those who are not in immediate need, are
hardly in a mood to sing or play for the love of
doing so unless that love is deep and of long
standing. The feeling, day after day, of not

672

 

Music, with its power to give mental and
emotional relief and courage, may be as
vital a force now as it was during the war.

being needed or wanted is itself enough to silence
the natural urge to sing or play. But it is pre-
cisely this demoralizing state of mind that we are
trying to dispel. We must see to it that no one
is without the bare needs of life; but this having
been done, what an achievement it would be if
any number of the unemployed could rise to the
point of singing or playing in chorus, orchestra,
band, or smaller group, or of using in similar
ways some of their energy and some of the many
hours in which they cannot now effectively seek
a job, in acquiring new skills and appreciations or
enhancing old ones, if only for the joy of expres-
sion and of doing something, anything, well, or
of growing in the doing of it! Certain consider-
ations, however, would have to be followed.

1. The opportunities for musical activity would
have to be offered with the idea that any persons
who have the time might like to take advantage
of them. There should not be any special appeal
to the unemployed, no segregation of them. The
reasons for this are obvious. Ideally, any group
would include mothers and other people who are
employed as well as people who have no work.
Some of the many men and women who are now

 

employed for only two, three, or four days a
week are likely to be among the first to respond
to the opportunity.

2. Many a person has at some time wished that
he or she could learn to sing or play well, or to
listen more enjoyany to music, but the pressure
of daily work and perhaps of the easy, sensa-
tional amusements of the crowd has heretofore
kept him from doing so. Now is his opportunity.
For him the educational attitude will be effective;
the best sort of class procedure will please him,
the sort in which the music’s the thing, interest
is held strong and high, and he can feel himself
growing in real musical skill and enjoyment. But
for most people the activities offered would have
to be regarded and carried on as modes of recrea-
tion, though the interest and grthh found in the
class procedure could be as well and satisfyingly
cultivated through this attitude as through the
educational one.

3. No kind of instrument or activity is to be
despised, no matter how crude it may be, if in
any degree it gives or may give to the player or
singer the liberation, inspiration and delight for
which the best music of every sort is admired.
Some people, especially among certain foreign-
born groups, will find as much satisfaction in a
fretted instrument as others will find in a violin.
The thing expressed or striven for, and the qual—
ity of the performer’s own experience are the
important considerations.

4. We certainly want cheerfulness and fun, and
some of us may want the inane, devil-may-care

The Junior Band in Maywood, Illinois, fostered by the
Recreation Department, is helping to dispel gloom!

attitude of certain popular songs. But these are
not enough. Few of us want only to be tickled
or lulled into mere forgetfulness. The unem-
ployed man or woman in distress wants to feel
free again, unharassed by doubts and fears, but
he wants also to regain his self-respect, to be re-
minded of the best that is in him. Music can go
far in answering this need. So the best folk songs
of many different moods, great though simple
hymns and choruses, fine, full—flowing tunes like
the Bach “Air for the G String,” and other music
that has in it the beauty and other qualities of
fine, upstanding manhood and womanhood will
if well presented, have a large place if not the
whole place. For within the many fields of the
best music, including the best popular music,
there is no end of hearty cheer and fun as well
as of a deeper happiness. This principle applies
also to the qualities of performance and the
choice of an instrument. In no other field of ex-
pression can a love of the best be attained by so
many people as it can be in all things musical, and
in no other field is striving for the best more
rewarding. ‘

5. In seeking places for musical activities, and
organizations to provide them, first consideration
should be given to places and agencies already
providing them, such as community centers,
schools, churches, clubs, and libraries, and com-
munity choruses, orchestras and bands. The pos-
sibilities of extending and enhancing what is al-
ready going on should receive full consideration
and action before new places and organizations

673

674 COMMUNITY MUSIC DURING THE DEPRESSION

are established. An adequate though brief survey

of the city’s resources of these kinds should be
one of the first steps.

6. Where concerts are given, the standards of
performers will have to be high because the ex-
pectations of listeners everywhere have been
raised by the radio and sound-pictures. Capable
vocational musicians should be given preference
wherever a remunerative engagement is possible.

We shall examine first the field of concerts.

Kinds of Concerts
I. VOCAL

A. Adult choruses, glee clubs, and church
choirs, including Negro and foreign-
born groups.

B. Small groups, including family groups.

C. School groups of all kinds.

D. Soloists.

II. INSTRUMENTAL

A. Adult orchestras and bands.

B. Fretted instrument groups.

C. Duos, trios, quartets and other small
groups, including family groups.

D. School groups of all kinds.

E. Organ recitals in churches.

F. Other solo recitals.

III. Combinations of coordinate
vocal and instrumental groups
or individuals, as in a festival,
an opera or operetta, and an
organ recital at which a choir
also performs.

IV. Radio and phonograph repro-
ductions. .

Places for Concerts

1. Churches.

II. Community centers and settlements.

III. Evening schools and other school buildings.
IV. Music schools.

V. Libraries and art museum.
VI. Theatres and concert halls.
VII. Clubs and Young Men’s and \Vomen’s

Christian and Hebrew Associations.
VIII. Armories.

IX. Shelters and other centers for the unem-
ployed.

X. Hospitals and other welfare institutions.

XI. Parks and playgrounds (in warm weather).

Concerts may, of course, take place in connec-
t‘ion with other activities or performances such

"No kind of instrument or
activity is to be despised
if in any degree it gives to
the player or singer the
liberation, inspiration and
delight for which the best
music of every sort is ad-
mired. For music, like re-
ligion, is at best a way of
life, not merely a profes-
sion. It is a possession."

as lectures, forums, church services or socials,
plays, and games. It is important to keep in mind
the possibility of having good music in suitable
places and suitable amount where people are al-
ready gathered for such activities as have just
been mentioned, as well as the possibility of hav-
ing concerts to which people must be specially
attracted.

When .50 many people are unemployed, it
should be possible to have better musical per-
formances than ever before, especially in amateur
groups. For example, the choirs in churches
should now be giving unusually great inspiration
to congregations and to people who would come
to the church or parish house to hear a special
concert. As a matter of fact, many churches
have had to curtail their musical offerings be-
cause of shortage of funds, a deplorable condition
when the strengthening power of music in a
church is needed more than at any other time.
To give money for physical relief of the unem-
ployed is the primary need, but to sing in a well-
directed choir is also a way of helping that it is
the privilege of all who can do so to use. This
plea for enhancement of existing musical activi-
ties can be made with respect to
community choruses, civic orches-
tras, band concerts, and every other
good sort of musical endeavor. Op-
portunities to broadcast through 10--
cal radio stations may not only pro-
vide much-needed money for paid
performers, but they should be
sought for amateur musical groups
as an additional incentive for keep-
ing interest and effort on a high
level.

Participation in Musical Activities

\Ve are here considering opportunities for
people to sing or play for the love of it. All the
activities referred to in connection with concerts,
except, perhaps, solo recitals, are possible; and in
addition there is community singing and the in-
formal singing of smaller groups, and also group
instruction in singing (“voice production”) and
in playing. In the latter may be included class
lessons in piano, in any of the orhcestra or band
instruments, and in fretted instruments such as
the guitar, mandolin, banjo, and ukulele. The
better instruments should, of course, receive the
greater support. A recent publication has made
group instruction in orchestra and band instru—
ments without question an activity suited to the
community recreation program. It is the

COMMUNITY MUSIC DURING THE DEPRESSION 675

 

Church and Dykema Modem
Orchestra Training Series pub-
lished by C. C. Birchard and
Company, 221 Columbus ,Avenue,
Boston. The manual very clearly
describes processes that any intelli-
gent musician who knows at least
the elementary steps in learning
each instrument can readily carry on. A band
training series is now being prepared. These
books make it possible for people of any age from
5 to 85 to start learning to play in an orchestra
or band by doing so at the first meeting. The
social and play attitudes that are looked for in
any recreational activity are here in full measure
from the very start. They are, and continue to
be. the principal conditions or incentives for all
the learning that takes place. Given a good leader
(there are now many in the public schools of all
parts of the country), a good pianist, and the
instruments, the development of an orchestra or
band is as certain and satisfying a recreational
enterprise as can be found. Information as to
the purchase of instruments can be secured
through the National Recreation Association.
Reliable dealers in them will offer special rates

and easy payment plans for recreational as for
school groups.

Festivals

Now is the time for festivals! Let the valor
and joy that we associate with the American
spirit have every possible encouragement. The
usual sort of festival given by a chorus, often
comprised of a number of smaller choruses or
choirs or both, and an orchestra; the festival of

Festivals which may, if de-
sired, combine singing,
dancing and playing, "are
like a breath of spring in
the long winter of our de-
pression." A festival may
be very simple and yet
very effective.

dancing as well as singing and
playing, such as was common
in “the spacious days of Queen
Elizabeth”; the international festi-
val which is also made up of danc—
ing as well as singing and playing,
and adds to these, through the cos-
tumes of different nationalities, a
wealth of color and design that are like a breath of
spring in the long winter of our depression; and
the 7-day festival that a celebration of National
Music Week may be—any or every one of these
kinds of festivals is worth all the work and en-
thusiasm and valor that the leaders in it will have
to give it in these times. Proceeds from admission
charges could be turned over to the unemploy-
ment relief fund. It may be a simple affair and
yet very effective, for even the singing of a single
song may be as festive an eXpression as can be.
Let us have such expressions of an American
spirit, generous, free, and beauty-loving, that is
not to be cramped or soured by any depression.

This attitude will be especially appropriate this
year because of the George Washington Bicen-
tenary. Suggestions for George Washington
plays, festivals, and pageants appropriate for
clubs, churches, schools, recreation centers, as
well as some for the whole community, can be
secured without charge from the United States
George Washington Bicentennial Commission,
Washington, D. C. That Commission has pub-
lished, among other things, a very interesting
booklet on “The Music of George Washington’s
Time” which includes tunes that can set anyone
singing or dancing, no matter how old or blue

676 COMMUNITY MUSIC DURING THE DEPRESSION

he thinks he is. A larger. book published by the
Commission and entitled “Music from the Days
of George Washington” contains additional mu-
sic. The Commission can also supply without
charge the books and vocal music for a George
Washington Masque written by Percy MacKaye,
which involves an orchestra as well as a chorus,
many speaking parts, dancing, and children as
well as adults. The National Recreation Associa-
tion has published a pageant-play “In the Hearts
of His Countrymen” by Marion Holbrook, that
can be purchased for 25 cents. Some of the music
publishers have issued George Washington songs,
cantatas and musical plays, the best of which is
an operetta in three scenes entitled “Mount Ver-
non,” published by the Oliver Ditson Co., of
Boston. The Bicentennial celebrations are appro-
priate at any time during the entire year. Music
Week celebrations might well be devoted largely
to associations with the “father of our country,”
who was himself a lover and patron of music, but
any good music that is American in composition
or in spirit—any great music, however simple it
may be—may be appropriate. This year is also
the 100th anniversary of the writing of “Ameri-
ca.” Now is the time to set out in the music-
making that will find its climax in Music Week,
May Ist to 7th! Further suggestions for Music
Week celebrations can be secured from the
National Music Week Committee at 45 West
45th Street, New York, or from Music Service
of the National Recreation Association.

Securing Leaders

We will have to find the best leaders available,
because the main dependence of any group musi-
cal enterprise will be on them, and we should
look first among the unemployed. We may find
there some good professional musicians capable
of the particular kind or kinds of leadership
needed. And we may 13nd such capability also
among musical amateurs who are out of work.
Many an amateur has unsuspected potentiality
for leadership which, through a brief course of
training and, perhaps, some continued guidance,
could be well developed. But before we look for
leaders we must find one or more persons—a
personnel committee—capable of selecting them.

Obviously, the leader of any group should have
attractive social and executive qualities and force
which need not here be described, and he should
know or learn enough about the technique of
conducting to lead the kind of activity for which
he is needed. But having these requirements, his

most valuable quality will be a real love and
understanding of music that has been gained
through much experience of the best music, at
least the best music for the kind of activity he is
to lead. Without this he may succeed in a certain
sort of community singing, he may be more suc-
cessful than one who has this quality in fine
measure but is lacking in some other important
quality, but his success will certainly be greater
if he has it. For music, like religion, is at best
a way of life, not merely a profession. It is =1
possession. The chief purpose of conducting is
to put each individual in the fullest possession
possible of his own capacity to feel and under-
stand the music and to express himself through
it, and that is done mainly through example or
contagion. If the person who can carry out that
purpose is among the unemployed, he should be
engaged to do so. Otherwise, let him be sought
elsewhere.

In the November and December (1931) issues
of the Music Supervisors’ Journal, which reaches
most of the 17,000 school music teachers of this
country, a plea for contributions in leadership by
these trained pe0ple was given prominent place
and should help in making the services of the
best of them available for community music.
Capable leaders among church organists and
choirmasters and other employed musicians
should also be available; and again, there are the
good musical amateurs to be considered as pos-
sible leaders. The personnel committee should be
sympathetic and tactful, but its primary duty is
to choose the leaders who will be of the most
benefit to the people in their charge. No other
consideration should be allowed to determine
their choice.

There should be offered in the community one
or more courses in musical leadership, designed
especially for actual and prospective leaders of
the various kinds of community musical activi-
ties. One such course should be given in the
leadership of children’s musical activities. In
New York City several men and women regis-
tered at the Unemployment Relief Agencies have
been given employment, with payment from the
relief funds, as music specialists on the city play-
grounds and at a number of Boys’ Clubs, and a
special course to prepare or advance them for
such work was arranged for them. Information
regarding the planning and administration of
such courses can be secured from Music Service
of the National Recreation Association.

COMMUNITY MUSIC DURING THE DEPRESSION 77

The remuneration of leaders of adult amateur
choruses, orchestras, and bands ranges from
$5.00 to $55.00 a rehearsal depending on the ex-
perience, standing and demand of the leader and
the standing and standards of the group. The
most common rates are between $10.00 and
$25.00. But where unemployment relief funds
are used a rehearsal might be regarded as a day’s
work at $5.00 a day. Leadership of community
singing and of children’s groups would under the
same circumstances have to be put on a scantier
financial basis. Music teachers and other em-
ployed musicians and amateurs should be willing
to give their services without charge. Monetary
contributions are not the only kind to be expected
and appreciated in the present
emergency.

Securing Concert and Festival
Performers

A concert committee, the one
which we have called the person-
nel committee, should establish
a community concert bureau for
the purposes of selecting singer:
and players for such concerts as
have been listed, keeping a rec-
0rd of places and times where
and when the concerts may be
given, and seeing to it that prop-
er and complete arrangements
are made for each concert. The
performers will be selected first
from among the unemployed,
and when the concerts are given
without charge in hospitals, set-
tlements, or other welfare insti-
tutions, or at centers to which
many of the unemployed are at-
tracted, remuneration might well be given from

the city’s unemployment relief fund. The concert

bureau could also arrange for performances by
unemployed musicians for which a small admis-
sion charge is made, avoiding engagements that
might deprive other musicians of work that they
would otherwise be asked to do. Among these per-
formances might be concerts for children in the
schools, for the people of a neighborhood in a
community center, a Y.M.C.A., or a similar center,
or at a recess time for the workers in an industrial
or commercial establishment. A chorus or sym—
phony orchestra might be formed especially for
such concerts.

In a recreation day shelter for the unemployed

in Montreal daily concerts are given by individ-
uals and groups of the men themselves, about 30
of them taking part each day. The superintendent
of a large shelter of this kind in Philadelphia has
arranged not only for musical performances at
the shelter by some of the men themselves, but
he has also helped them to find remunerative
engagements outside. .

When churches have had to curtail their choral
activities because of lack of funds, it would seem
entirely legitimate to use money from the city’s
relief fund to pay capable persons to sing in
church choirs. Futhermore, some or all of the
members of a chorus especially formed to take
part in a community festival may, if they are

 

Courtesy San Francisco Playground Commission

Children’s rhythm bands provide a happy start
on the road leading to permanent satisfactions.

among the investigated needy, receive a weekly
compensation from the city’s relief fund during
the period of preparation; their efforts, which
would be arduous enough, to be regarded as “made
work” that is as important as any other of the
non-profit making jobs that have been devised
for the unemployed. The festival would involve
an orchestra, too, and it could also require the
making of costumes (more “made work” that
is good to do). The expenses of equipment,
special leadership, rental, and all other needs
other than wages for the needy participants
could probably be provided for through charges
for admission to two or more performances of
the festival. Many persons not among the needy

678 COMMUNITY MUSIC DURING THE DEPRESSION

should be willing to take
full part in the work of the
chorus without remunera-
tion, their singing being an-
other contribution to relief
of the unemployed. If the
festival were to have the
civic and national signifi-
cance of a George Wash-
ington celebration it would
seem unquestionably to warrant support from the

relief fund, but even if it were only the fine
communal expression of joy and strength of spirit

that any musical festival should be, it would still
be a very valuable civic enterprise.

The participation of employed amateurs in other
concerts could also be regarded as needed contri~
butions by them to the work of relief.

Poster Publicity

Posters describing opportunities, free or at
nominal cost, to sing, play, or listen to music
should be conspicuously placed in non-commer-
cial unemployment offices, relief registration
ofi‘ices, libraries, settlement houses, community
centers, clinics and hospitals. These posters will
probably describe recreational opportunities of
several other kinds also.

Organization for the Present and Future

In carrying out such suggestions as have been
given, the need for knowledge of existing re-
sources and of opportunities for their use, and
for arrangements to make the best of the oppor-
tunities, calls for collaboration between persons
representing the various kinds of agencies, civic,
educational, recreational and religious, in whose
interests or work music has or may have a place.
There might be an independent music committee
for the community, or it might be a committee
like one in New York City “for the constructive
use of enforced leisure” which includes music
among its interests and which is itself a sub-com-
mittee of the Coordinating Committee for Unem-
ployment Relief.

Whatever form or place it may take, it should
be regarded as not only for the present emer-
gency but for continued service throughout the
years. It will be building for the future. In all
the relief work we are inclined to take a negative
attitude, a desire to shield the needy and get out
of the present trouble ourselves. Into what we
shall go is a question that is by most of us
scarcely considered except as a kind of dream of

"I believe there should be a more general
study of music. It should be regarded less
professionally and more educationally. It
should be a factor in all general education,
iust as it was in ancient Greece, where
children were obliged to study it asa part of
school life. It should be looked on as a
factor in the lives of all people, a great de-
veloping influence, not as something set
apart for the few who are exceptionally en-
dowed." -— Ignace [an Padcrcwskr’.

a return to where we were
before the trouble struck us.
It would be very stimulat-
ing if we could see and take
hold of Opportunities not
only to share in the relief of
the distressed but also to
contribute to some enduring
endeavors for making the
conditions of life better
than they have ever been. It was largely the pur-
pose of gaining some 'permanent good, of helping
to make a better world, that aroused and sustained
our strongly positive attitude during the World
War, and opened our purses.

The future of music is not one of the major
concerns of our civilization, but even a music
committee could give an impressive example of
a forward-looking and upbuilding attitude in its
work. \Vherever music is taught in the public
schools there should be adequate and attractive
opportunity for continued experience in all forms
of musical activity from the kindergarten through
adult life. In addition to good church choirs,
other choruses, glee clubs, instrumental groups,
informal singing, every community of about
10,000 or more people should possess a good civic
chorus, a symphony orchestra, and good outdoor
band concerts in the warm weather, and regard
these as it regards possession of a public library,
a beautiful park, or a stately public building—as
tokens of the spirit and dignity of the people.
And all this musical endeavor, especially the work
of the schools, should find its happiest results in
an increasing amount of good singing and play-
ing in homes. A committee that undertakes to
aid in starting and maintaining such projects is
engaged not only for a short period; it has before
it the work of years.

“Communities throughout the country have
many splendid, established facilities for helping
old and young toward an understanding and
love for music and the arts. During this difficult
period they should be careful to maintain such
services.

“In times of stress such as the present, all
people need the inspiration of learning something
new, of hearing good music, of expressing their
ideals in some tangible form. . They can
momentarily escape from what seem to be dif-
ficult problems in the joy of creative work.”

——LEOPOLD STOKOWSKI.

A Municipal Hiking Club
Goes to the Country

A hiking club in a southern city

makes a surprising discovery.

E hi-
kers of
Louis-
ville are gathered together primarily to walk into
the country and enjoy this delightful form of
recreation, but we have unconsciously turned

out to be a missionary force welcomed by the
rural groups and coun-

tryside as harbingers
of happy social hours.

When we organized
the Louisville Municipal
Hiking Club it proved
difficult to find small
towns in the surrounding
district of Louisville
which would serve as
objectives for our hikes
of live or six miles, so
we hit upon the idea of
securing a list of the
county schools and par-
ent-teacher associations
and among them find-
ing our hosts. The plan consisted of writing
some of these people a month before the hike
was to be held and asking them if they would fur-
nish supper for the hikers at 50 cents apiece.
The responses were slow at first as these officials
knew little of our group, the number to expect
and the certainty of our coming. At the present
time, however, our plan of ending our hikes at
country school houses and churches has been so
successful that we receive more invitations than
we can accept, and our hosts have had such good
times that they are among our best publicity
agents.

The hiking group, which sallies forth every
week, has grown from about 30 to an average of
50, making it worth while for the Ladies’ Aid
of a country church or the parent-teacher as-
sociation of a rural school to invite us, as they
can make $15 or $20 for their organization. We

By DOROTHEA NELSON

Superintendent of Recreation, Louisville, Kentucky

 

Much interest is added to hikes by the
introduction of nature activities or by
stopping occasionally to build a fire.

h a v e found,
however, t h a t
the chief attrac-

tion is not the money earned but the social at-
mOSphere which the hikers create by giving a

good time to the local groups who assemble on
Saturday night.

The Procedure

In carrying out our
program, we write to a
school and ask if we
may come on specific
Saturdays during the
month. When we have
received our response,
we list the school as our
destination and route
our hike accordingly.
We use busses which
meet at a central place
each Saturday at 2:30,
ride a distance into the
country in the bus and
then walk live or six
miles while the bus goes on to our destination.
We have supper and then we hold an hour of
social games in which we gradually induce the
local people to enter. The country surrounding
Louisville is very rural with a number of schools
around which the community logically gathers
for special occasions. We frequently stay until
10 or 11 o’clock at night telling stories and play-
ing games. Very often the people in these small
communities join us when they know we are
going to some nearby school and travel a number
of miles to go from one schoolhouse to the other.

For the hikers from the city, this is a refreshing
and delightful form of social interchange. It
stimulates them and is conducive to greater
participation in a more simple and happy form
of recreation than the stereotyped social dancing.
They return in a much happier frame of mind,
too, because they have helped give other people

679

080 A MUNICIPAL HIKING CLUB GOES TO THE COUNTRY

a good time and it is surprising what a congenial,
intimate feeling pervades the group because it is
giving service.

It is not customary for large groups to go
back into the brambles and thick hills which
surround Salt River and the Ohio River country,
but when we venture there even the moonshiners
do not withdraw into their cabins for they have
learned to recognize us. It is interesting to see
the “stand-offish” attitudes fade after an hour
of playing games. A number of the bystanders
contribute their own interpretation of the games
and show us old variations which we have not
known. Especially is this true of square dancing
and circle games. Some of the natives do not
“hold” for social dancing and so our ingenuity
is often taxed. They are anxious to “carry” us
to their part of the country and show us what a
good time we can have with them, so we are
never lacking for a place to end our hikes. In
the more or less conventional social life of the city
these jaunts into the country are exceedingly
refreshing.

Rules for a Successful Hike

There are a few rules of conduct we have
found essential if we are to continue to receive

invitations to the country and to have a success-
ful club. These follow briefly:

(1) Respect property and customs and give
no offense to the religious and social traditions.

(2) Always go regardless of weather and give
your guarantee of at least 25 people. If you fail
to appear, it is diflicult to secure another in-
vitation.

(3) Allow only adults to come as distances
and social arrangements are hard to adjust for
children.

(4) Print your schedule far enough in advance
and have a large mailing list, but do not have a
compulsory membership.

(5) Make the club self-supporting by having
each individual pay his share of the expenses
for transportation and supper.

(6) Have a different leader each week rep-
resenting some particular business or profession
as this encourages a variety of peeple to come
and makes possible a more personal invitation
to a separate group each week.

(7) Hike partly in the open and partly cross-
country, and have a leader go with you to scout

hike.

 

Photograph b3 Davis Day

. off to a Carefree Day

Organizing a Bowling Program

By JOHN F0x

Superintendent of Recreation

Millburn, N. J.

HE Township of

Millburn, New Jersey,

has a population of
8,500 people. After four-
teen months of a bowling
program inaugurated by
the Department of Public
Recreation, 240 individu-
als have become enthusi-
astic b o w l e r s in four
adult b o w l i n g leagues
composed of thirty teams.

In March, 1930, the newly organized recrea-
tion department started its program. No pre-
vious work had been done in the organiza-
tion of adults in any kind of league competi-
tion. In the fall with the problem of organizing
winter recreation for the first year, the Recre-
ation Department considered bowling among
other projects. There were no bowling alleys
in town, the nearest ones being two miles
away in Springfield. There was, however, a
Millburn 5-man team which bowled in an
inter-city league and which used the Spring-

field alleys.

This team formed the nucleus of the pro-
gram. The captain of the team, approached
during the summer on the subject of helping
to organize a league in the fall, said he didn’t
believe it could be done; first, because there
were no alleys, and second, because nothing
like it had ever been attempted before in Mill-
burn and he was afraid people would not go
out of town to bowl in a league. He did,
however, promise he would help in an attempt
to organize, and at the final meeting of the
men’s playground ball league for men over
twenty-five years of age he suggested that each
of the eight basketball teams enter a team in

 

the recreation b o w l i n g
le a g u e. The managers
readily assented to this,

and the program was un-
der way.

Before play was begun
an equalization meeting
was held when the rela-
tive bowling s t r e n g t ll
was proportioned as much
as possible. Each of the
teams was allowed to as-
sign one player from the already existing
bowling team which bowled in the inter-city
league. Four bowling alleys were engaged in
Springfield for one evening a week from 7:00
to 12:00 P. M. One shift of fourteen teams
bowled two matches from 7 :00 to 9 :30 o’clock,
when the other four teams took the alleys for
their matches which lasted until midnight.
With the township Mayor throwing the first
ball, the league was under way, and four com-
plete round robins were bowled, the league

beginning October 5th and lasting until
April 10th.

The rules and methods adopted for the or-
ganization may have had something to do
with the league’s success, The outstanding
feature was the fact that the money prizes
which prevail in most bowling leagues were voted
down and bowling was engaged in for the fun
and entertainment it provides. The alley
owner charged the league $20. for the alleys
and each man was assessed 75 cents per even-
ing for a three game match. In this way a
sizable treasury of approximately $250 was
created which was sufficient for a splendid
banquet at the close of the season. Each
bowler was given a free ticket to the banquet

681

682 ORGANIZING A BOW/LING PROGRAM

provided he had bowled in three-fourths of
the games. The gold, silver and bronze medal
awards given cost the league approximately
$50. Then came the thought there must be
other people in Millburn who would like to
bowl though they perhaps were not expert
enough for the existing men’s leagues. Ac-
cordingly, Men’s B League was organized to
which the players literally flocked. Eighteen
teams were selected and play began.

It was found, however, that there were still
more who wanted to bowl so a Men’s C
League was formed to take care of them.

Because of the fact that adequate alleys were not ‘

available this league was limited to sixteen teams.

In 1930 the Recreation Department attempt-
ed to form a women’s league but was not suc-
cessful because there were very few women
who knew how to bowl. Accordingly a class
was started at which instruction was given.
Four women enrolled at the opening session
but the class gradually increased in number
until twenty were bowling regularly when the
class closed the following spring. This fall,
with the women in the previous year's class
serving as a nucleus, a league has been organ-
ized composed of eight women’s teams. Bowl-
ing instructors were present for the first few
weeks to teach the women beginning the rudi-
ments of the game. At the present time the
interest and enthusiasm of the women for
bowling is very high, and so popular has the
game become that two bowling establishments
have been opened in Millburn.

The Rules

Practically the same rulesapply to all the
leagues. They are

as follows:

1. The first ball
counts. T h e r e
shall be no prac-
tice balls.

2. All players to
be eligible for any TEA”
a w a r d and to 
have expenses 
paid for banquet 
mustbowlat 
least three quar- 
ters of all games, 
including the last, TOTALS

three. Any play-
er who does not

A postal card which contains the blank forms necessary to re-
port team scores is given to the competing teams by the Secretary
at the time of the match. Thisreport is then mailed to the Secretary.

TOTALs after

CAPTAIN

bowl the required amount may attend banquet
but must pay own way. Each team may send
five bowlers to the banquet.

3. Gold medals will be awarded to cham-
pionship team and to team rolling highest single
score of season; silver medals to second-place
team in league standing; bronze medals to
third. Gold medals will be awarded to the
highest individual averages in five different
flights. Gold medals for highest individual
score on alleys 1 and 2 and alleys 3 and 4, and
one for a hidden prize.

4. Each team shall submit to the Recreation
Department their members who are qualified
to roll, and no person not listed will be al-
lowed to compete. Players may be substituted
on all teams until January 1, 1932, when the
final list must be in.

5. Foul Line rule must be observed. The
league treasurer will appoint a judge to call
fouls. The judge will be paid 25 cents for a
match of three games on all four alleys.

6. Games will start promptly at 7 P. M. and
9:30 P. M. Bowlers delayed later than start-
ing time will be credited with ten (10) pins
for each frame, 100 pins being allowed for an
absent member. In the women’s league, the
number of pins allowed for an absent member
shall be the same as that scored by the lowest
player on the opposing team.

7. League entry fees will be returned at
close of season providing team satisfactorily
completes schedule.

8. Each captain shall be responsible for col-
lecting 65 cents from each of his competing
players and must. turn it over to, the Treasurer
at the start of the match.

9. If a player
wishes to switch
from one team to
another, he must
secure a written

 

DAT release from his
manager and then
TEAM—————'———— be registered by

the manager of
the team of his
choice with the
R e c re ation De-
partment.

10. One w e e k
completing

the schedule a
CAPTAIN Continued on page 691

In 1925 the Board of

County Commissioners of
Winona County, Minne—
, sota, accepted a gift from
Herbert C. Garvin of twenty—seven acres in
Warren Township. The, property, to “be
known as the Farmers Community Park, was,
it was designated, to be used for the benefit
of the Winona County Farm Bureau Associa—
tion and residents of Winona County as a
county park and recreation grounds. The
County Farm Bureau was to serve as custo-
dian of the property. The park is well equipped
for recreation containing as it does an athletic
field, baseball diamonds, wading pool, two
children’s playgrounds, horseshoe pitching
courts and similar facilities. It serves a large
number of people through its picnic facilities
consisting of eight picnic places, two large
brick ovens and six concrete and steel ovens.
Thousands of people each year attend the pic-
nics held under the auspices of the Winona
County Farm Bureau.

A Gift
To Winona County

Proof that the‘ West-
chester County Recrea-
tion Commission has
placed fine arts in the
front rank with other recreational interests
was found in the first annual exhibit of the
Westchester County Arts and Crafts Guild
held November 23rd to December 6th. The
exhibit included nearly 700 works of art, the
result of the work of residents of the county.

A Home Talent
Exhibit

 

Parks such as Winona County’s are in-
valuable contributions to our rural life.

There were oil paintings, water colors, draw—
ings, prints, sculpture, pastels, miniatures, cer-
amics, fabrics and designs, jewelry, hook rugs,
bowls and vases, and many other articles.

In spite of a decrease
in staff personnel of one—
third, and in funds avail-
able (of more than $3000,
more than ten new activities were added to
the program maintained last year by the Divi—
sion of Recreation in Pontiac, Michigan. The
entire program was conducted at a cost to the
tax payer of less than 10 cents per thousand
of assessed valuation.

New Activities

In Pontiac

In 1923 Portland, Ore-

gon, had nineteen public
playgrounds with an at—
tendance for the season
of 348,321. The city now has twenty—four
recreation centers with an attendance for the
past summer of well over 1,000,000. In 1923
there were fifteen public tennis courts; there
are now fifty-nine, the majority of which are
standard hard—surfaced courts and many of
them are lighted for night play. In 1923 two
swimming pools were in existence with an
attendance of 62,088. At the present time
there are seven plunges with an attendance
for the past summer of more than 750,000, and
plans are being made for additional plunges

683

Portland’s Recreation

Prog ram Grows

684 WORLD AT PLAY

and also for aquatic service on the Willamette
River. Recent new facilities include two well
located district playing fields, an adult center
and a new combination bath house and com-
munity center. Through an arrangement with
the public schools the Park Department in
charge of the work is promoting an increased
program of recreational services for adults at
school centers.

An Interesting Type of Wading Pool—
Elizabeth Park, maintained by the Wayne
County, Michigan, Park Commission, has a
new wading pool with unique features. It is
of irregular shape, winding among the trees
surrounding it and in the center is an island.
The pool is 117 feet across and has a minimum
depth of 18 inches. Although the water in the
pool is already chlorinated, it is further disin-
fected to gu ar (1 against infection and is
changed daily. For picnics in the park there
are 62 field stoves and hundreds of tables and
benches. There is also a community house and
nursery where children may be left in charge
of the matron.

Fun Night at the County Center—A huge
play night in Westchester County’s center——

The Child and Play

By JAMES EDWARD ROGERS

the first of a series of weekly fun nights— was
staged on January 25th when young and old,
men and women, were invited to take part in
an informal program of sports, games and
dances. The entire building was given over to
various play activities, no fees being charged
for the use of facilities. The main floor of the
center, the arena which has seen championship
tennis matches, grand opera performances by
the Metropolitan Opera Company, basketball
tournaments and home shows, became the
scene of ping pong competitions, volley ball,
deck shufi‘ie board, ring toss, Badminton, and
other games. The great downstairs auditor-
ium, recently the setting for Westchester's
first arts and crafts exhibition attracting over
six hundred exhibits, provided the setting for
archery practice. Upstairs in the little theater
those wishing to dance had an opportunity to
take part in early American dances. For the
more sober-minded games of checkers and
chess were offered in miscellaneous rooms at
the center.

The center has housed all the higher forms
of recreation—music, opera, art and dancing——
but the play night is the first time it has been
used exclusively for a fun program.

. Throughout the discussions of the many committees reporting at the White
House Conference on Child Health and Protection was the theme of the child’s

play life and the importance of play.

This theme as it was expressed again and again, has been woven into a
book, “THE CHILD AND PLAY,” which will be off the press about April 5th.

. The chapters cover important phases in the field of child life: Play in the
Home: Play Outside the Home ; Play in the Neighborhood and Community:
the School and Play: Municipal Recreation, and Recreation Leadership. The
book also presents findings under such titles as: Why Children Play: the Chal-
lenge of a New Age, and Children's Play, Today and Tomorrow.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue, New York City

 

WORLD AT PLAY _ 685

Baseball in MilwaukeeuThe Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, Municipal Amateur Athletic AS-
sociation, conducted by the Extension Depart-
ment of the Milwaukee Public Schools, in
making its annual report for 1931, states that
during this year baseball had the biggest year
of its history. Records were broken in atten-
dance and in the number of players registered,
and in the number of teams entered. The
games were watched by 1,274,000'spectators,
an increase of 323,000 over last year, and 7,624
players were enrolled with 454 teams. Other
sports in the program of the association were
basketball, lawn bowling, cross country run-
ning, canoeing, curling, cycling, football, hik-
ing, horseshoe pitching, indoor baseball, ice
hockey,'ice skating, skiing, soccer, roller skat-
ing, swimming, indoor and out-of—doors, ten-
nis, track and field, and volley ball.

Baseball Leagues in Boston—The success of
the city-wide baseball leagues fostered by the
Boston Park Department is evidenced by the
increase of registered teams from 290 in 1930
to 537 in 1931. Three years ago an extensive
canvass of athletic clubs in each neighborhood
hangout, club rooms, street corners and social
organizations was necessary b e f o r e teams
'could be persuaded to give up their system of
independent game planning. That in 1931
practically every team using. municipal dia-
monds was not only satisfied to play under the
Park Department supervision but made appli-
cation voluntarily for a place in the park
league, indicates the confidence of the players
in the new system of city-wide municipal
sport organization. “Nearly two hundred of
the teams were independent street corner
groups to whom a program of this kind has
been a lifesaver in the restless, unnatural and
unsatisfactory conditions into which the pres-
ent unemployment crisis has forced them.”

Industrial Athletics in Oakland—The In-
dustrial Athletic Asssociation of Greater Oak-
land, sponsored by the Oakland, California
Recreation Department, reports that member-
ship and activities have been greatly increased.
Membership now includes representatives
from 60 firms and industrial plants. Among
the activities are basket ball, volley ball, base-
ball, tennis, crew practice, ice skating, swim—
ming and gymnasium classes for both men
and women. For men, the program includes
a golf tournament, a track meet, horseshoe
tournament, ice hockey, and a bowling tourna-
ment. An outstanding event of the season was
the Eleventh Annual Sports Carnival held in

     

Special Certificates and College Degrees for
Students and Teachers

of Physical Education and Athletic Coaching
PENN STATE SUMMER SESSION
July 5 to August 12

Wide variety of graduate, and under-graduate
courses. Prominent coaching staff. 'Modern gym-
nasium. An ideal environment for health and Study.

Special Bulletin on Request

Address
Director of Summer Sessron

THE PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE
STATE COLLEGE. PA.

 
     
       
       
   
     

. SUPPLY SERVICE

In Leather, Metal. Celluloid, Wood Carving, Batik.
Rope and Cordage: also Primitive Indian Crafts
for the Educational, Recreational and Occupational

Fields.
HAN DICRAFT MANUAL

300 Projects, 400 Illustrations
Price $1.00 Paper, $2.00 Cloth

Sent on Approval Price List on Request

enmceerr SPECIALTIES
‘ t2?+“él§"‘8at°§tt‘ét"o .

COLORADO SPRINGSSOLORMO

 

the municipal auditorium with brilliantly dec—
orated Hoats, and championship teams fol-
lowed by a series of nine sport events delight-
ed 10,000 spectators in the arena.

Mid-West Physical Education Convention.
——-The annual convention of the Mid-West
Physical Education Association will be held
in Columbus, Ohio, March 30th to April 2nd.
Demonstrations of class work will be a fea-
ture. There will also be a Mary Wigman
dance recital and reception on Thursday night.
Further information may be secured from Mr.

H. S. Wood, Ohio State University, Columbus.

The Child and Nature Interests—The Oc-
t'ober issue of Progressive Education, devoted
to the child and science, is one which will be
of interest to recreation workers. It shows
through a number of articles the importance
of utilizing the child’s interest in his environ-
ment to give him information on nature activ-
ities and elementary science. Some of the
articles are: “Exploring Our Environment”;
“ Ga t ewa ys to Science”; “Adventures in
Beauty”; “Earth Lore and the Child”; “The
Humanism of Science”; “A Unified Science
Program,” and “Preparing the Child for Sci-
ence.” Copies of the magazine may be secured
from Progressive E d u c a t i o n Association,

Washington, D. C.

686 WORLD AT PLAY

Good Times for M other’s Day

HERE is an opportunity for daughters to enter-
tain their mothers in a number of ways. If a
banquet is desired. here are new ideas for canducting
it cleverly. If it is to be a party. there are sugges-
tions which will help make the occasion a gay af-
fair. There is also an amusing and entertaining play.

Community Drama Service
Price, 25 cents

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue, New York City

Build it Yourself

"’00 hnvo I homo work-h , h ' a, .

with inns for making such hooutiful d
at lugs to: Bock Coooo China 0.3:}:
rdpiiogmiod Sh]  tin-ti? F ituro.
Lom . ren o u .
Anti uoo. Candlo Sticks 31' Cost. 33:

Work I, metal-workinIJIthowork. tooth» I
e‘rnft. toys. can er. brass and pewter work.
hpl:?:.use on forosocf toning} tool "o'How
-to-d muss no. ans 0 or
drown-in mko ovary stop oimpio 3'11 8.6:

SIX MONTHS' TRIAL $1.00 ' c
Bend 81.00 today for trial 6 months' oub-  ‘u

l' t,

miptlon. Money hock if not dolllhtod.

POPULAR HOMECRAFT - _ _
ths :"199

777 N. Michigan Avo. Chico“). ll.

 

The “IT” Suit

m
rm

SWIM SUIT

, ll Patented May 26. 1931
‘ J l Inbuilt Brasslero for “’omen
0 .II I
'1... I

   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
   

Double knlt right
into the suit—Its
,a’ 1 new and different.

 

   
 
  
  
   
  
 

Other Suits

Cotton, 50% wool,

100% wool.

A style for all the
family.

A suit to suit.

 

Speeds, Lo-Baks.
Standards, Tank
and Swim Models.

 

Athletic Shirts and
Trunks.

 

Get them from

your favorite
dealer.

Take no substltute.

 \Get lndera Figurflt.

NOTICE!
DEALERS WRITE FOR PRICES
Manufactured and sold by

 

.'| 9'“ 'l ‘— 9

 

Indera Mills 00. N- v- sales can

Room 611
WINSTON-SALEM Wilson Bldg.
N C U S It

. .. . . . 1270 Broadway
Tel. Dial 2-2603 Tel. Penn. 6-9456

Our National Forests.—The report of the
Forest Service of the United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture for the year ending June
30, 1931, shows a tremendous growth in the
use of national forests. Since 1916 the number
of visitors has increased more than tenfold.
For the calendar year ending 1930 the esti-
mated number of visitors was 31,904,452; a
slight increase from the preceding year, It in—
cluded 326,826 special use permittees and
guests, 1,330,610 hotel and resort guests,
1,980,736 campers, 3,272,680 picknickers, and
24,993,600 transient motorists.

The provision of 156 additional improved
camp grounds during the year has increased
the total to 1,731. The total cost of this system
of national forest public camp grounds to De-
cember 31, 1930, was $383,740, of which $52,-
601 was contributed by public and private
cooperators in cash, material, and labor.

Niels Bukh Demonstration.—On November
2.4th Niels Bukh, President of the Ollerup
People's College of Denmark, presented a
group of his students in a demonstration at
the College of the City of New York. The
program consisted of a demonstration of
women’s and of men's fundamental gymnas-
tics, “position gymnastics,” singing games for
girls, advanced gymnastics, apparatus activi-
ties and tumbling, Danish folk dances in old
national costumes, Danish part songs and a
fundamental consisting of a march, salute and
song. The joy with which the students entered
into the folk dances was particularly inspiring.
Mr. Bukh’s demonstrations are always of great
interest and create much enthusiasm.

A Weight and Height Chart—The OBice
of Education of the United States Department
of the Interior, Washington, D. C., has issued
a blank by means of which the record of a
child's growth in height and weight may be
kept through his school years. Full directions
are given on the chart for recording the infor-
mation. Dr. J. F. Rogers, who prepared the
chart, points out that those who are looking
for a “scientific” (in the sense of exact) means
of determining whether a child is of the “right”
height or weight for his age, will be disap-
pointed. It is possible, however, that with
carefully kept ch a rts extending over the
school period we may learn much regarding
what is to be expected along these lines. The
record forms may be secured for one and one-
half cents each, whether in small or large lots.

WORLD AT PLA Y

Increasing Physical Fitness.——-Recent tests
at Barnard College, New York, reveal that the
girl who will graduate in 1935 is more than
one-half inch taller than the graduate of 1925;
that she not only weighs a little more and has
a stronger grip but also -has a larger lung
capacity and a greater cheSt expansion than
her fellow student of~a decade ago.

American Physical Education Association
to Hold Conventions.—The thirty-seventh an-
nual convention of the American Physical
Education Association will be held in Phila-
delphia, April 19—23. On the 19th and 20th
there will be visits to schools and other places
of interest in and around Philadelphia. The
convention will be officially opened at Wednes-
day noOn and will end Friday night. Addi-
tional information can be secured from Mr.
Alvin L. King, Grant Building, 17th and Pine
Streets, Philadelphia. -

Training in Journalism.—The Bergen Street
Playground of Newark, New Jersey, publishes
a paper known as “The Sprinkler” which the
playground boys and girls themselves issue
each month. An interesting note in the June
number tells of the purchase by the playground
of a set of Collier’s Encyclopedia and a Popu-
lar Science Library of ten volumes. “These
are at the disposal of anyone in the playground
who may be interested in using them. We
hope you will all take advantage of this splen-
did chance offered you right here on your
playground and be proud to keep these books
in excellent condition. If at any time you
would like to read, go into the recreation room
and read where it is quiet and cool.”

A City Plans Ahead.—Irvington, New Jer-
sey, ranks high among the cities developing a
recreation program under a definite plan. The
city has sold the frontage of one of its play-
grounds located on the main business street,
receiving enough money to purchase an inter-
block tract contiguous to the high school ath-
letic field. The tract sold measured 200 by
120 feet. The new playground is 300 by
500 feet.

Saving the City’s Money.—Like members
of a large family pitching in to get the chores
done, residents of Leominster, Massachusetts,
this Fall donned old clothes, rolled up their
sleeves, and in four hours completed about
$2,000 worth of work at the Leominster Cen-
ter playground. As “white collar” workers
and laborers vied with each other in planting

Last Call on Tickets
for the
Olympic Games

0 Delegates desiring to have seats for
the opening ceremony of the Olym-
pic Games, Saturday, July 30,
should send their orders immediately
to Raymond Hoyt, Superintendent
of Recreation, City Hall, Los An-
geles. California.

These reserved seats Will not be
held after March 15.

The cost of the tickets is $3.
each. Money should be sent with
the application.

EAGLE RINGER PITCHING SHOE

 

The Eagle Ringer Pitching Shoe is
the t0p-notcher of the Diamond
line. Drop forged from special
Diamond horseshoe steel—hard or
soft. Preferred by amateurs and
professionals.

Also Diamond Ochial — Diamond
Junior — Double Ringer and pitch-
ing shoe accessories.

The Most Complete Line!

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE Co.
4610 Grand Ave" Duluth, Minn.

687

 

DIAMOND

 

688 WORLD AT PLAY

Recreation Supervisors

ATTENTION

RUEIco RED and GREEN Playground
and Tennis Court Surfacing possess-
ing the following superior qualities
is now available:

Resilient
Purvious

Color Guaranteed
Frost Proof

Quick Drying
Dustless

Will Not Crack
Low Maintenance

Manufacturers of Surfacing Materials
for Every Recreational Purpose

RUBIEN CONSTRUCTION CO.

Westfield New Jersey
Phone 2-1807

0

Largest designers and builder: 0! athletic fields and
tennis court: In America.

FREE AND UNBIASED

SCHOOL INFORMATION

Our Bureau offers you the best advice on all types of
schools. camps. and colleges. This service is given by
conscientious college trained persons who know the edu-
cational field. Catalogs. rates. and relative standings

givm. We do not accept commissions nor dues from
any schools.

In Us Solve Your School Problem
WRITE

EDUCATIONAL AID SOCIETY

168 N. MICHIGAN AVENUE CHICAGO. ILL.

 

trees, grading a baseball field and trimming
shrubbery, women of the town assisted by
furnishing refreshments to the men who were
donating their Saturday afternoon for the pro-
ject. Besides grading the baseball field, the
public-spirited citizens built a wall on the
edge of a swampy part of the playground
which will eventually be made into a skating
rink. One of the last tasks performed by the
volunteer laborers was the erection of play-
ground apparatus. Free bus transportation
was provided the workers from the center of

the town, and the work was done under the
auspices of the Community Recreation Asso-
ciation. One of the tasks, that of cutting down
the trees on part of the playground, proved a
boon to the unemployed as all the wood cut
was sawed into stove lengths by a sawing ma-
chine for the use of the unemployed. A local
contractor donated the use of a steam shovel
and its operator. Town trucks with regular
drivers were used in hauling loam from the
new tennis courts to various parts of the field.

A Preschool Class.—One of the new features
of the program of the Miami Beach, Florida,
Recreation Department is a class for preschool
children which will be in charge of an experi-
enced teacher who will give instruction in sand
and clay modeling and other handcraft work.
There will also be a prOgram of storytelling
and games for Small children. N 0 charge will
be made for this class.

Recreation and Sex Education—At a recent
meeting of the executives of the national boys’
work agencies in New York City, Dr. Benja-
min C. Gruenberg urged the importance of
bringing boys and girls together in recrea-
tional activities. This he held to be the most
important type of sex education. Early in
life, he said, boys and girls should engage in
activities in which they have a common inter-
est. At times they naturally want to do things
separately and suflicient fr e e d o m for this
should be allowed. Dr. Gruenberg has far
more faith in the understanding of the oppo-
site sex that comes naturally in play activities
at the playgrounds, camps and in like situa—
tions than he has in any formal sex education.

To Protect Children—The New Jersey Con-
gress of Parents and Teachers by resolution
has opposed the exploitation of children for
“show-off” purposes and has taken a stand as
disapproving of small children taking part in
evening performances, amateur nights, baby
parades, and general advertising schemes.

Pocono Study Tours for 1932—Hiking, bi-
cycling, and mountain climbing in the lovli—
est parts of Denmark, Finland, Germany and
Austria——these are a few of the attractions
offered by the Pocono Study Tours in plan-
ning a three months’ trip abroad in the spring
and early summer. The plan offers young
people of moderate means and cultural inter-
ests an opportunity to visit Europe under
competent leadership and to gain first—hand
information about recreation in a number of

WORLD AT PLAY 689

European countries. The trip has been planned
especially for young men and women between
the ages of eighteen and thirty and the cost
will be $390. The party will sail from New
York on April 8th under the leadership of Dr.
Jay B. Nash. Further information may be
secured from Dr. Nash at New York Univer-
sity or from Mr. S. A. Mathiasen, Pocono
Study Tours, 55 West 42nd Street, New
York City.

Community Music Developments.—Balti-
more has a newly organized Negro chorus of
250 mixed voices, which during the latter part
of February will appear in a joint concert with
the Negro symphony orchestra organized two
years ago under the sponsorship of Frederick
R. Huber, Municipal Director of Music, who
is also sponsoring the chorus. The orchestra
has a membership of 85 men. Last year a mu-
nicipal appropriation of $1,500 was made for
the orchestra. An audience of 3,500 people
heard the first concert given on December
14th by the Saginaw, Michigan, Oratorio So-
ciety sponsored by the Department of Recre-
ation. The soloists and the leader gave their
services and there was no admission charge.
The concert has done much to bring the work
of the Department of Recreation very favor-
ably before the public. In Cincinnati, Ohio,
two orchestras have been combined into one
civic symphonic orchestra of ninety pieces,
and there are four new community orchestras.

The Department of Public Recreation of
Millburn, New Jersey, has organized violin
classes limited to five pupils each who pay 50
cents for three—quarters of an hour instruction.
This money is paid directly to the instructor.

Dancing classes have been organized on the
same basis.

Cooperation Between City Departments.—
The Board of Education and the Department
of Municipal Recreation of the Board of Park
Commissioners, Evansville, Indiana, are con-
ducting school centers under a splendid plan
of cooperation. The Board of Education is
supplying fifteen school gymnasiums and all
supplies such as balls, nets, and mats free of
charge to the Recreation Department. The
school custodians are donating their services.
The only cost to the Recreation Department
is the salary of the directors.

Southern Physical Education Association to
Meet—The meeting of the Southern Physical

“keep the
children of
the street: ”_

Trouble
Proof

_¢_

Bronze. Brass, Iron.

Does not freeze.

Foot-operated.

Self-draining.

Each drink fresh from
the Water main.

Rustless brass pipe.

Angle Stream.
Mouth Guard.

+

That’s the reason this
Fountain has been adopted by

75 CITIES AND

TOWNS

for Playgrounds
Parks and

Schoolyards

Write for Booklet

The Murdock Mfg. & Sup. Co.

426 Plum St., Cincinnati. 0.
Established 1853

—_——-—

{a
ASTONISHING OFFER “"9

|
ATHLETIC DIRECTORS |

Archery Tackle from the Ozarks where raw material is plentiful
and woodcrafters exceptional. Free catalog "16."

OUTDOOR AMUSEMENT COMPANY. Clinton, Missouri

 

Education Association will be held in Jackson-
ville, Florida, March 30—April 1, 1932. The
opening meeting on the evening of March 30th
will be preceded by an informal reception with
grand march and dancing. In addition to the
addresses and round table discussions, there
will be a number of demonstrations of games
and rhythmic activities.

Children’s Books.——-Speaking at the annual
exhibition of children’s books conducted by
the Child Study Association of America, Mrs.
Anne T. Eaton, book reviewer and storyteller,
said that since there is so little magic in the
world a welcome should be given stories
which make magic. All forms of imaginative
literature stretch the mind and are therefore
valuable. Good literature, it was suggested,
should be put where it will be “stumbled

upon” by the child.

690

ROLLER SKATING CONTESTS

Plan your

PLAYGROUND
Now

Right now is the time to plan
for your playgrounds and equip-
ment. One way to assure your
patrons of the best playground
equipment is to permit our en-
gineers to submit plans and
proposals on proper play de-
vices. “American” equipment is
known for its safety—design—
and durability.

Many new popular items have
been added to the "American"
line. The new catalog shows
our complete list of playground
devices, send for a copy.

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

DEPT. R
Anderson, Indiana

V

 

Roller Skating Contests
(Continued from page 661)

(8) Long Distance Race. Skate from one
point to another one a long distance away.

Boys under 12 years and not over 63”
2-skate race, 75 yards.
3-legged race, 50 yards.
1-skate race, 50 yards.
Home-made scooter race, 50 yards.

11'. Boys under 15 years and not over 66"
2-skate race, 220 yards.
Sculling backwards race, 50 yards.
2-skate coasting, 50 ft. run.
50 yard push, boys without skates.
Pushing boys on skates.

Girls under 12 years
2-skate race, 50 yards.
l-skate race, 50 yards.

Junior Girls under 15 years
2-skate race, 100 yards.
l-skate race, 50 yards.
2-skate coasting, 50 ft. run.
Sculling backwards race, 50 yards.

Girls over 15 years of age
2-skate race, 100 yards.
l-skate race, 75 yards.
2-skate coasting, 50 it. run.
Sculling backwards race, 75 yards.

On Boston’s Park Playgrounds

The events used on the playgrounds of the
Boston Park Department are as follows: For “C”
class (boys 15 years of age and under), 100 yard
dash; 100 yard single skate race; coasting for
distance, and backward sculling 100 yards. Events
in the “D” class (boys 12 and 13 years of age)
are 75 yard dash; 75 yard single skate race;
coasting for distance, and backward sculling 75
yards.

Those winning first, second and third places in
each event on every playground are eligible for
district meets. Winners of iirst, secondand third

. places in district meets may compete in the iinals.

The rules governing the events of the meets
are the same as for track meets in so far as start-
ing and keeping to the lanes are concerned.

In coasting for distance—two skates—a 50 foot

‘ run is permitted in which to gain momentum.

On crossing the starting line the feet must be
together, both of them ‘on the ground. No motion
of arms, legs or body is permitted. The contest-
ant must attempt to go in a straight line.

In a one skate race, the skate may be worn on
either foot. It must be on line at starting. Mo-

- to the Master of Ceremonies at the middle arch of the

ROLLER SKATING CONTESTS 691

tion is applied by pushing with the free foot. No
running is permitted and the skate foot must be mThe constant prog-
kept on the ground as much as possible. .

Skates with rubber, wooden or composition . , ,
wheels are not permitted. Only standard steel reSS Of a bllllon douar fleld

wheels with or without roller bearings are allowed.
Contestants may enter and compete in only two
events and in only one age division.

is accurately and interest-

I 11 Jacksonville, Florida

In the 1932 roller skating carnival conducted
by the Department of Recreation, classifications
were made on the basis of height, as follows:

ingly reflected in the pages

‘ 5 ° ’ ,
A Meet in West Chicago’s Parks 0f SOUthern  AAA

Events for Boys under 57"
50-yard dash.
Single Skate Race.
Tandem Doubles.

Events for Boys 57 " to 61”
75-yard dash.
Single Skate Race.
Cross Handed Doubles.

Events for Boy over 61”
lOO-yard dash.

Single Skate Race.
Sculling Doubles.

Events for Girls over 59”
75-yard dash.
Single Skate Race.
Sculling Doubles.

Events for Girls under 59”
50-yard dash.

Single Skate Race.
Cross Handed Doubles

A' Benefit Circus

(Continued from page 671)

“-Here you will find

news of the latest activities
of public officials through—
out the South—news of
undertakings accomplished

and plans for future

Hobby Horse—Engineering Department
Fishing Act—Engineering Department
Silent Cheer Leader—Engineering Department

activities.

Sidewalk Bike—Engineering Department

Large Bike—Engineering Department

Trained Wolf—Norwood Playground

Mexican Hairless Dog—Interstate Advertising Company
All acts must be seated in steel bleachers while await-

ing call. As the act preceding your own goes on, report

SOUTHEFQFH

DIXIE’S ONLY SOUTHWIDE
CITY BUILDING PUBLICATION

steel stands. There must not be any loss of time between
acts. 0 Walk around, not across the field, when going to
the c1rcus rlng, platform or boxing ring.

Organizing A Bowling Program
(Continued from page 682)
dinner is to be given to the members of the
Recreation Bowling League.
11. Each Captain shall be responsible for
delivering his team’s scores to the Secretary

or mailing them to him the evening of the
match.

Baker & Ivy Streets
ATLANTA, GEORGIA

692 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

165mm,

NOW USING

PADDLE TENNIS

 

REPORTS of Recreation Directors show Paddle Tennis

to be one of the most popular of all playground
games. Last year 165 cities used it as part of their
regular programs.

Paddle Tennis is played exactly the same as tennis.
with special wooden racquets and a special sponge ball,
on a court just half as wide and half as long as a tennis
court. This gives it five distinct advantages:

1. Paddle Tennis permits more children to play at
the same time than any other game—four can
play on a space only 19 x 39 feet.

2; It has all the sport of tennis—adults enjoy it
as much as children.

3- It enables children to learn to play tennis be-
fore they have access to tennis courts.

4- It is an ideal game for tournaments.

5- The equipment is surprisingly inexpensive—a
complete set for four players costs about as much
as one good tennis racquet.

If you have not yet introduced Paddle Tennis, by all
means try it out this season and just see how the
children take to it. If you are already using it, con-
sider for additional equipment the new type "Ten-
nette" racquets available for the first time this year.

Send for descriptive circulars,
rules of play and prices

THE PADDLE TENNIS CO. INC.

285 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK, N. Y.
Sole Makers oi Paddle Tennis Equipment

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

MAGAZINES

The Journal of Educational Sociology, January 1932

A Study of the Out-of-School Activities of High
School Girls, by Ada E. Orr and Francis J. Brown

Parks and Recreation, January 1932

Borego Palm Canyon Region Desert Park Site, by
Tam Deering

How Houston Uses Unemployed on Park \Vork

Beach and Water Frontage DeveIOpment, by W. S.
Rawlings

Working for Winter Sports, by V. K. Brown

New Swimming Pool for Nashville

Ohio Legislature Creates New State Park Board, by
W. A. Stinchcomb

Child lVelfare, February 1932
Amusing the Sick Child, by Miriam E. Mason

The Igournal of Health and Physical Education, January
1 32

Basketball Skill Games, Compiled by Ralph J.
Schnitman

Projects of Our Girls’ Athletic Association, by
Marie Snavely

Recreation for the Business Man

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,

February 1932
. The National Recreation Association, by \Veaver
Pangburn
The Clogging Minstrels, by Gladys Beck Johnson

The Journal of Physical Education, February 1932

Play Days, by John K. Arnot
Social Recreation for Men
Recreational Leadership by Reginald T. Rose

The American City, February 1932

Ridley Park, La Grange, Ga.—An UnempIOyment
Relief Project, by E. S. Draper

How City Planning and Civic Spirit Have Kept
Springfield at Work, by Joseph Talmage Woodrqu

Elkhart, Ind—Gift Restores Lost Park Site to City
and Makes \Vork

PAMPHLETS

Fifth Annual Report—Playground and Recreation De-
partment, Tacoma, \Vashington.

Annual Report of the Department of Public Playgrounds
and Recreation, Reading, Pennsylvania 1931.

Rules, Regulations and Instructions for Playleaders and
Assistants, Cincinnati, Ohio 1931.

Report of the Board of Recreation of Paterson for 1931.

Motion Picture Review of the General Federation of
Women’s Clubs.

Repogt3 of the City Recreation Commission of Elmira,
l 1.

Fourth Annual Report—Bureau of Parks, Allegheny
County, Pennsylvania

Annual Report of W'aco Recreation Department, 1930-
1931

Sixth Annual Report—Department of Recreation, Board
of Education, Hamtramck, Michigan, 1930-31

Annual Report of the Department of Recreation, Lima,
Ohio, 1931

New Books on' Recreation

Official Miniature Aircraft

Instruction Manual

By John C. Henderson and Louis A
Orsatti. Los Angeles Playground and
Recreation Department. $.50.
THIS manual has been prepared for

the Los Angeles Times Play-
ground Aircraft League and is de-
signed primarily for the use of the
boy or girl who is a beginner in the
fascinating science of building and
flying model airplanes. Chapter I
consists of an elementary illustrated
discussion of flight principles divided
into five short lessons with review
questions. Chapter II acquaints the
reader with the tools and materials
used in building models. In Chapter
III directions are given for making
five gliders, while the succeeding
chapters contain instructions for mak-
ing three rubber-powered models which are typical of
types used throughout the United States. Practically
every model described has drawings and photographs as
well as descriptions.

If ordered in quantities of twelve or more, the manual
may be secured at $.35 each.

Choral Songs for Male Voices

Oxford University Press. (The American musical
agency for the Oxford University Press is Carl Fischer,
Inc., Cooper Square, New York City.) $.50.
HERE is another of those rare collections of songs that
can be sung and thoroughly enjoyed by any man, no
matter how elementary his skill and taste, or how ad-
vanced. From the first note to the last there is nothing
but real, live music, fine in feeling and excellently ar-
ranged. In addition to Annie Laurie, Old Folks at
Home, and Swing Low, Sweet Chariot, there are four-
teen other songs of equally universal appeal, among them
being two sea chanties, two great hymns, and several of
the best English, Scottish and Irish folk songs. The
collection is another token of the Welsh love of singing
first-rate music, for it was specially compiled by the best
living Welsh musician, Sir Walford Davies, for the
Welsh Nation-a1 Council of Music that is associated with
the University of Wales.

It is said to be “specially for use in the Mining Areas
and for general use elsewhere.” Let any glee club or
male quartet, young or old, elementary or advanced, sing
these songs as they should be sung, and you can be sure
that they will continue to sing them and other good
songs for a long time to come.

 

Courtesy Cedar Rapids Recreation Department

Official Handbook - l931-32

Athletic Activities for Women and Girls. Spalding’s
Athletic Library. No. 115R. $.25.
IT IS now possible to secure the latest edition of the
handbook of athletic activities for women and girls
prepared by the Women’s Athletic Editorial Committee
of the A. P. E. A. A very practical guide for recrea-
tion workers, physical educators and all interested in
physical activities for girls. The book contains ofhcial
rules for track and field events, volley ball .rules, and
directions for twenty athletic games which are most
“playable.” These games have been included because
they are of proved popularity and of easy organization,
are in themselves satisfying, and are usable in elementary
and high schools in learning skills and the general prin-
ciples of some of the more intricate team games. They
include activities which are adapted to those not fitted
for or interested in vigorous team games and promote
a knowledge of games of an individual type which may
be enjoyed as recreation in after school years.

The Regional Plan of New York

and its Environs

Regional Plan of New York and Its Environs, 130 East
22nd Street, New York. Set of two volumes. $25.00
THE plan for the New York region upon which ten
years of effort and more than $1,000,000 have been
expended, is now completed. It looks forward to the year
1965 and a population of 20,000,000. The plan is present-
ed in two comprehensive volumes. The first is the “ground
plan” containing suggestions of the staff of the Regional

693

694 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

ECREATIONAL '
llTERATURE

(Please mention Recreation when writing companies)

     

 There has been_a steady gain in the number

of cities which have adopted the Murdock
Outdoor Drinking Fountain, and the grand total of
municipalities using this foUntain now stands at 750.
Some communities have as many as 250 Murdock
Fountains placed advantageously in parks, play-
grounds, school yards and other public property. The
Murdock Manufacturing Company is now entering its
seventy-ninth business year, having started manufac-
turing the Murdock Anti-Freeze Hydrant, whose
mechanical and anti-freeze features continue to be
accepted as standard after these many years. Com-
plete information, description and prices for these
Anti-Freeze Hydrants can be found in the folder
"Save Water" which the Murdock Manufacturing and
Supply Company, 426-30 Plum Street, Cincinnati,
Ohio, will be glad to send to you for the asking.

 The RUB'CO Red TOP Dressing, which is a

combination of Jersey red clays, marl, shale
 and fold-spar that is burned in a kiln, then

reground and shipped in 100 lb. bags ready
for spreading, is described in a leaflet which can be
secured from the RUBICO Construction Company,
Westfield, N. J. A leaflet giving the proportion of
mixtures and directions for spreading the RUBICO
Red TOp Dressing, can also be secured from this
same company.

 The Service Department of P O P U L A R

HOMECRAFT has compiled a bulletin for the
special information of those interested in leathercraft.
This bulletin contains the names of firms from whom
leather, lacing, and leathercraft tools and supplies
may be obtained, as well as a considerable number
of projects and design sheets, with the price and
source; it also contains a list of books on leather-
craft.. To secure this list send a self-addressed
stamped envelope to POPULAR HOMECRAFT, 737
N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

 The National Recreation Association calls

attention to a number of its publications of
interest to recreation workers in connection with the
spring and early summer program. Among these are
suggestions for simple plays and pageants and the
celebration of special days—"Suggestions for a St.
Patrick’s Day Program" ($.25); “Good Times for
Mother’s Day” ($.25); “May Day Echoes"—a pageant-
play for grades and junior high schools ($.15), and
“Troubadours of Provence," a May Day fragment for
high school assembly use ($.10). In addition may be
mentioned “88 Successful Play Activities” with its
suggestions for contests and tournaments ($.60);
“Handcraft”—a book of patterns for toys and useful
articles ($1.50), and “Conduct of Playrounds" ($.25).
At the Recreation Congress at Toronto there was
an interesting demonstration of the construction of
doll's furniture from cigar boxwood. Patterns of this
furniture will soon be ready for distribution at nom-
inal cost.. Write the N. R. A. for information.

Plan Committee for the improvement of ways of com-
munication in and about New York. Consideration is
given land uses both in areas of concentrated develop-
ment and relatively open areas and reclamation of sub-
merged land and swampy areas. The second Plan Vol-
ume deals particularly with suggestions, both specific and
general, regarding the structural growth of cities within
the region. Consideration is given to civic art in plan-
ning and architecture, as well as to practical plans for
the improvement of work and living conditions. It is
pointed out that in metropolitan life the neighborhood
more particularly than the house is a man's home. and
specific proposals are made for the planning of improved
neighborhoods with adequate housing, trafiic facilities
and recreational space. 1:. both volumes all plans and
projects are as far as possible made visible through

abundant illustrations.

Guide to Paths in the Blue Ridge.

$2 50Potomac Appalachian Trail Club, \Vashington. D. C.

An alluring invitation to come out-of-doors and enjoy
nature is this attractive guide with its maps and illustra-
tions and its directions for following 506 miles of the
Appalachian trail and 65 mlies of side trails in Virginia
and adjacent states. There are, too, a number of articles
dealing with wild flowers and trees to be found on the
trail, emergencies in the woods, and similar subiects.

American Indian Dance Steps.

By Bessie Evans and May G. Evans. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $5.00.

Here is a fascinating book for all who are interested
in Indian lore. Beautifully illustrated with colored plates
and with outlined figures, the book is valuable not only
for the detailed and carefully worked out directions for
the dances for which music is given, but also for its
sympathetic interpretation of the Indian and his art.

Social Work Administration.

By Elwood Street. Harper and Brothers, New York.

$3.00.

There is much in this book which will be of help to
recreation executives in their problem of administration.
The importance of the board of directors and their rela-
tionship to the executive and to the staff ; committee
management; the qualifications of an executive and his
contacts; the practical details of equipping and managing
an office; eflicient ofiice methods; personnel policies:
budget making, and purchasing and stock taking—all
these are problems with which the recreation executive
is concerned and on which this book throws much light.

Unusual Entertaining.

McCall’s Magazine, New York. $.20.

The second edition of this popular party booklet con-
tains the old favorites and many new ideas. It is an
answer to the question, “How can I have an unusual
party that everyone will remember i” There are parties
for many social groups, including the difiicult party for
boys and girls of high school age.

Program Making and Record Keeping.

gzyoguth Perkins. The Womans Press, New York.

Recently there has been much discussion, when recrea-
tion workers come together in conference, of ways in
which results of programs can best be measured. This
book makes a contribution to the process of program
building and measurement by reporting the results of a
study of a variety of programs in which educational
method has been consciously tried and of the sources of
the educational ideas and principles used. Although it
it written out of the experience in one organization. the
Y. W. C. A., it will be of value to program makers in
other educational organizations.

NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION 695

The Administration of Physical Education.

By Jay B. Nash. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $3.00.

Professor Nash has assembled some valuable, up-to-
date material in this book. After the first few chapters
he deals with concrete problems of administration and
brings a wealth of information, charts, graphs and facts
that are worth while for the physical educator. When
he adheres to his title-topic and gives factual objective
information as to what actually takes place in physical
education over the country, he makes a contribution to
our literature. But when he theorizes and generalizes
and sets up ideal situations that do not exist, based upon
personal preference, the book fails of its purpose.

The first part of the book is devoted not to adminis—
tration organization but to philosophy and principles in
physical education. In books on phiIOSOphy and princi-
ples the author can express personal opinion and prefer-
ence, but in a book that is to be a manual for training in
organized administration the material presented must
state the facts. There are good books on philosophy and
principles written by Clark Hetherington, Jesse Williams
and others. Therefore, if this were a book devoted to
the phiIOSOphy of physical education and recreation, one
perhaps could not quarrel with the personal theories and
‘ preferences of the author—abut it is a book on admin-

istration. -

There is need for a good practical manual on admin-
istration in physical education which will give an ac-
curate reflection of what actually is being done in the
field, especially in organization. This book, however, is
confusing because it is not objective but subjective. The
author states his thesis and then gathers facts to try to
prove his “ideal” recommendations. But even his charts
do not substantiate his recommendations and individual
cases are cited in support of them, whereas examples up-
holding the Opposite viewpoint are as readily obtainable.
The author well says that “administration cannot there—
fore be dogmatic. No two situations are exactly the
same. Conditions may even vary in the same city from
day to day. Administration must never become crystal-
lized. It must be mobile and fluid. It must be able to
adjust to conditions; to analyze elements in situations.
It must be able to predict outcomes with some degree of
certainty.” Unfortunately the author begins to set up
ideal forms of organization which he recommends, and
one feels he is an advocate of a personal philosophy and
is pleading for a certain type of organization based upon
theory and not practice. It is not so much the point of
view of the careful student who gets the facts and tries
to tell “what is" as much as of an individual who tells
“what ought to be” according to certain principles set
up and based upon a personal viewpoint. In brief, there
is too much rationalizing.

Here is a book containing some excellent material. It
is full of useful information, graphs and charts, but it
loses its real value because the author is positive not only
of his theories in organization but also of details on
matters that are still moot questions and still in the
realm of experimentation. He does not hesitate to give
recommendations and conclusions on questions on which
national leaders and organizations are‘ still unwilling to
be dogmatic by taking any arbitrary stand.

Better Homes and Gardens.

Meredith Publishing Company, Des Moines, Iowa.

Better Homes and Gardens, which promotes junior
garden clubs, has issued a series of leaflets dealing with
the planning Of the backyard garden, rock gardens, the
landscaping of school grounds, the making of informal
gardens, and other similar subjects. Better Homes and
Gardens has also issued publications for junior gar-
deners, including an attractive booklet entitled The First

Seven Activities of the Junior Garden Clubs of America
and My Garden Notebook.

Posture and Physical Fitness.

Armin Klein, M.D., and Leah C. Thomas. Chil-
dren’s Bureau. Government Printing thce, Wash-
ington, D. C. $.10.

The results of a study of 1708 children are given in this

- bulletin, which contains a number of charts, tables, and

illustrations.

A Speech for Every Occasion.

A. C. Edgerton, L.L.M. Noble and Noble, New
York. $2.00.

Holidays, patriotic occasions, civic association meetings,
political and professional gatherings, social events, sport-
ing events and many other occasions are provided for in
this compilation of addresses.

Safety and Health in Organized Camps.

J. Edward Sanders, Ph.D. National Bureau of
Casualty and Surety Underwriter, New York. $.75.

The findings of a two years’ study have been interpreted
in this booklet which will be of interest and practical
value to all-concerned with the operation of camps. The
major problems in camp safety are stated to be the re-
moval of the chief accident hazards arising from undesir-
able physical conditions around the property and equip-
ment, and the giving to campers of sullicient education
and supervision to meet safely the experiences provided
by the life of the camp. Problems in the field of health
have to do with the reduction of the exposure to infection
and with the building of health in camp. Very definite
suggestions are offered along these lines.

 

 

Oflicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRDY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORSETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMHER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JoHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
WILLIAM HALE HARRNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. Hrcxox, Michigan City, Ind.
Mas. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVIJS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. LOOIIIS, New York, N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MIss ELLEN SCRIPPS, LaJolla, Calif.
FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, JR., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H. .
MRS. WILLIAM H. WOODIN, J 1., Plaintield, N. J.
FREDERch M. WAREURG, New York, N. Y.

