Recreation and the Way to World Peace

HAT do men and women and children of the various countries of the world do

when they do what they want to do — when they have freedom to do as they

please? What do the countries of the world do to help their citizens in doing
hat they want to do? These were questions which the First International Recrea-
ion Congress faced.

Recreation is nature’s greatest means of education—yes—but it is "education by
onsent." Recreation is the citizen educating himself in ways he has himself chosen.
ot one act of consent at the beginning, but continuous consent. The citizen "self-
etermines” his own recreation and changes his mind as he likes. And so in hearing
f recreation in different countries we were hearing really about the inmost nature of
he peoples of the world—what the peOple really are in their inner desires, and what
2 heard was beautiful and all who were present liked each other. The whole world
eemed a more beautiful place. Australia, India, China, Japan, Poland, Greece, Italy,
nd each country seemed very near to every other country. Something beautiful, price-
ss, seemed to lie at the heart of each country. After all, the “language of the heart’s
esire,” the language of play and recreation seemed much the same among the nations.
' he language of play and recreation activity seemed fairly universal. The light in
he speaker’s eyes, the outreach of the human spirit; the music and songs and dances of
he various nations required no interpreter.

One felt like putting off one’s shoes and baring one’s head—as in the Old Tes-
ment days—for one was in the presence of reality—complete dedication, something
imple and holy.

The delegates from twenty-nine different lands—wise men and women journeyed
rom afar—came together in one place and with deep reverence for the spirit of child-
ood considered how that spirit of play which is characteristic of childhood every-

here can be preserved throughout life in all lands so that all men and women while
oing the work of the world shall still sing, still care for flowers, still have a "splash
f splendor,” still keep the joy of living, still keep the heart of a little child, still
now the secret of eternal living.

Know you one another and thus you fulfill the law of peace. Share your songs,
’our music, your art, your sports, your "heart's desire" and you know you have
hared what has greatest lasting value. Begin with what we have in common and
he rest seems less important.

One international recreation conference has more value for world peace than ten

isarmament conferences.
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

October, 1932

313

 

Autumn in the Woods

Courtesy Forest Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois

 

314

  
   
   
    
  
  
  
  

The Opportunity oi the Church For Service
in the
Field oi Recreation

ET us look in on the By PHILIP C, JONES recreation take a heavy

Church y 0 u n g Associate Pastor, Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church human to“? IS racial

m e n ’ s athletic New York City segregation fair? It is
imittee. Something not a matter of a half
rious is afoot. It hour on the gymna-
esn’t take long to find out what it is. Visiting sium floor now; the giant problems of labor, the
sketball teams always arrive late Saturday even- human cost of recreation and race relations have
gs. Games have to be concluded at half-past ten become recognized. '
lock so that the janitors can prepare the gym- “But why can’t the church employ some other
sium for Sunday School use. Of late the games men to clean up after the games?” comes the
ve had to be obvious ques-

t i o n. M o r e
problems a r e
demanding re-

ortened. The
ayers want an
'tra half hour

the gymna- cognition.
u m fl 0 o r. Where will the
Why do we church get the

money w i t h
which to pay
t h e m ? How

much does bas-
ketball cost the

ve to stop
aying at half-
st ten?”i is
ch 3. simple
stion but it

is real educa- church ? How
nal possibili- much do the

. athletes help to
A Few of b e a r t h e
he Church’s church’s finan-

  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   

cial b u r den?
Who pays for
the broken
locker doors,
hrs a week the towels not
ust the jani- .; ~  -. .. . . . . ., _  - returned, the
3 work? At electric light
t time must they report ' bulbs, the new basketballs?
r duty on Sunday morn- There is much the ChUrch can do *0 PTO- Shall the missionary budget
5? Why must they, being m°t° sucb,h,°bb'°s 3‘ “angler?!” and thf be cut to allow for this ex-
. . many octwltles that are lust for fun ! F . .
egroes, live at a long (115- tra expense? Or Will it be
nce from the church which better to curtail the relief
located in a “white” neighborhood, and thereby program of the church? These are no insignificant
(1 two extra hours to each day’s time? An inno- questions. The wide-flung work of the church;
t question has introduced some real issues: Is its opportunity to meet immediate human need;
church a fair employer of labor? Should individual responsibility for the success of the

315

Problems

Inescapable
siderations :
ow many

 

316 THE OPPORTUNITY OF THE CHURCH IN RECREATION

..—.-=: n

Courtesy Department of Parks, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Christian enterprise; our atti-
tudes t o W a r d institutional
property, have arrived on the
scene.

Some other apparently in-
nocent questions are pertinent.
Does our team report on time when they visit other
churches? When do the basketball players and
the spectators finally “get to bed?” In what
“shape” do they report at the office or factory the
next day? More problems present themselves—
the keeping of appointments; health habits, fair-
ness to employers; family cooperation.

The committee meets to find a way to acquire
further privileges. It finds that there are great
human problems intricately woven into a half
hour of basketball. The meeting could well be
the genesis of a year of study and action. It could
kindle a social passion.

Perhaps the foregoing will serve to suggest the
opportunity which the church has in keeping rec-
reation ethical. It is the business of the church
to insist that the human values involved in all
activities be at least protected, if not enhanced.
Through the medium of recreation, if its leader-
ship is skillful and of social insight, the church
can render an inestimable service.

There will be churches which interpret religion
as an individual matter and which think of the
leader’s function as only priestly or prophetic.

The picnic bids fair to maintain its
popularity as a recreation activity
for church groups, and there are many
city parks which provide facilities.

 

There will be churches w

leaders are not fitted by t' .
perament, training or aptit I
for the difficult task of k

ing recreation on a high eth' '1

level. 
In our illustration above we have thought i
the athletic recreation of a group of young I
We must not think of recreation in this nar
sense, of course. We have in mind many ki
of group experience centered around some c :1
mon interests or skills-—club activities, appre '
tion groups, music, dramatics, athletics, so I
units and many others tending to make life m
worthy and satisfying. 1

The Opportunity in the Field of Youn
People’s Relationship 1'

In addition to the ethical emphasis which
church can make, and should make, in con
tion with recreation, is the opportunity it has in
field of boy and girl and young men and yo
women relationships. The church will do wel
afford young people of both sexes the opport'u
to engage freely in carefully supervised rec
tion programs. Young people will associate fr
whether we like it or not. It were better to
this association on an idealistic plane. Man
choir, many a young people’s society, man
Sunday School, has made a great contributio

I
l
I

C'—

-. --‘ M “‘-

   
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
   
    
   

matter of wholesome arid happy fellowship.
am not a believer in pious segregation in the
- of religion. The implication that the sex
is evil seems to me to be a denial of the very
f in a Divine Creator, though perhaps in say-
that I am not in the true Presbyterian suc-
on! If we constantly segregate young people
ur educational system and discourage social
course in our churches, where and how will
g people learn to understand persons of the
site sex? It is possible that many homes are
en homes because a pious prudery condi-
ed husband and wife lead to inevitable emo-
al incompatibility.
would seem that every church could render
‘ ine service in this field. Education in home-
ing and parenthood could well be supple-
ted by many sorts of social and recreational
ities designed to afford free and satisfying
wship between the sexes. Games, dramatics,
estras, choirs, dances, hikes, clubs and other
eational enterprises suited to varying inter-
, ages, skills, church policy, leadership, equip-
' t and such circumstances are real ministries.

n our city boys and girls are segregated in
school. This seems to be a misfortune, but
ffords our churches a very great opportunity.
‘ 5 do not see girls, and vice versa, except on
’ street and on the screen, or in objectionable
es. Our churches can at least help our young
le to “giggle throug ” to a normal attitude
‘ to a condition of a semblance of poise in the
ence of the opposite sex.

word about leadership in this connection. In
er churches professional direction is available
the recreational program. In smaller ones
isters, untrained in this field, or lay leaders
ilarly untrained, are often called upon to as-
e responsibility. This does not seem to be
a handicap as it would at first appear. Let
leader share—let the recreational experience
nitiated and controlled by the group, with the
er participating, rather than directing, and
experience becomes doubly valuable for all
cemed.
Ve must beware of duplication. Often
rches compete with public schools, play-
unds, settlements, Young Men’s and Young
men’s Christian Associations and other or-
izations functioning in the recreation field.
5 must not be, of course, for it is too costly in
: ey and leadership, and takes too high a toll
energy from those involved.

THE OPPORTUNITY OF THE CHURCH IN RECREATION 317

A senior in high school was a popular and at-
tractive leader in the high school department of
our church. A year ago she was rehearsing for
the leading part in a church dramatic production.
I happened to call in her home one afternoon just
as she returned from school. She seemed very
tired and pale. I suggested that she go to a clinic.
She went to a clinic, to bed, and to the Albany
Hospital, a tuberculosis sanitarium, where she is
recovering. She was being graduated from school,
with countless festivities; she was carrying a
heavy load in our church life. The total program
was too much. We hold ourselves guilty, at least
in part. Here was an opportunity for the church
in the field of recreation, to protect a girl from
such a breakdown. Perhaps our dramatic pro-
duction was actually the last straw.

We must guard against too much recreation.
But I hope I have made my point that the church
can make a real contribution by affording boys
and girls and young men and young women,
through recreation, wholesome social intercourse,
in an atmosphere of idealism.

Making Life “Lots of Fun”

One of the results of our reorganized social
life, if we do have sense enough to have an or-
ganization instead of a machine-made chaos, will
be a decided increase in the amount of our leisure
time. The church will do well to anticipate this
new condition and to be ready to help people, par-
ticularly adults, to make- these available hours
meaningful. We hear a lot about “adult educa-
tion.” I think of “recreational education,” be-
lieving that the trend must be toward an informal,
democratic method in which the education will be
a by—product, rather than the end, in which the
joy of creative expression, the making of life
satisfying will be the end. (Of course, this is
what we mean by true education, isn’t it?) The
growth of the Adult Education Movement is
most encouraging. Adult Religious Education is
going steadily forward. I expect to see great ad-
vances in the very near future along the line of
“educational recreation” or “recreational educa-
tion.” “A vocational guidance” might be another

way to put it.

One of our New York churches has a sculp-
ture group. I should like to join it myself “just
for fun.” Life should be “lots of fun.” Our. re-
ligion has frowned upon our smiles; has forbid-
den our “good times.” It would do better to pro-

318

claim that life is wholesome; it ought to bless our

joys as much as it sanctifies our sorrows. Choral

societies, dramatic clubs, art clubs, appreciation
classes, athletics, nature studies, social activi-

ties. Make your own list. You can think of a

dozen hobbies you’d like to undertake for your

en oyment. '

The church can help to make life joyous, can
afford a real antidote for the tedium of reading
the tabloids or sitting in a rocking chair beside
the kitchen stove. The medium is this “avoca-
tional education.”

The church can help to keep recreation ethical;
it can afford recreational fellowship between the
sexes in an atmosphere of idealism; it can help
to make life satisfying by affording what I have
called “avocational recreation.”

There is one more basic contribution the
church can make through recreation. It can dis-
charge its primary function as a religious insti-
tution. If young people are segregated from the
church in the areas of recreation, they will segre-
gate themselves from the church in the areas of
worship and service. I resent the church’s use
of recreation as a lure. Recreation is a worthy
value in itself, but if the church does afford rec—
reation it is in a position to guide the religious

growth of young people. If it is interested in the
interests of the young, the young will be inter-
ested in the church’s primary interest. Of course,
it is not a matter of “give and take.” Rather,
under good leadership, is it a matter of one or-
ganization helping to unify life. The church
which is interested in young people to the extent
of affording them amusement, recreation and fel-
lowship, is in a position to be of service in the
realm of moral and ethical counselling, religious
education and worship.

I should like to be a little fervent here in say—
ing that the church’s primary function is needed
now, and if it is rightly emphasized it is accept-
able now. Pious phrases will not help. Theologi—
cal emphasis will not help. A purely individual
morality will not help. But a vital social note, a
rigorous devotion to truth, a mood of sacrifice,
a concern for human welfare in every phase of

our social organization will find an eager and co-
operative response.

We are analytical, rational, clever, sophisti-
cated; but we are powerless. We need the emo-
tional motive force which religion alone can give.
That is why we must not “tone down” the em—
phasis on religion. Without it we shall perish!

THE OPPORTUNITY OF THE CHURCH IN RECREATION

 
  
  
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  

Have you ever seen a boy trying to be loyal
his scout troop, his Y.M.C.A., his school class .
his church all at once? (Like the short 5
hero who mounted his horse and galloped sw
in all directions!) The church must not co

for the boy’s loyalties. It can seek to cor
them.

The Church Must Serve!

This brings us to a final caution. Let us
think of the church’s good before we think u
individual’s good. The individuals and the 1
in our recreational program come first. 'Wh
riches their lives, brings joy, makes expe
satisfying as it ought to be? That is of pr
importance. The church must serve. If
sary, it must die to serve.

The experience of the church where it i
privilege to serve, where I have inherited a
tradition of liberal religion in faith and in a
and where an extensive recreational program
seem to make a genuine contribution in the
which I have mentioned, makes me believe i
the church as a whole should give added emph
to its recreational program. What is to be d
in an individual church will depend upon its 1
ership, its locality, its constituency, its equipm
and perhaps on its theology! We may need to
define the objectives of the church; we may n
to change our methods of educating church le
ers; we may need to unlearn some of the theol
our ancestors held with emotionalized tenac
Whatever it costs, we must help to enrich
perience. Recreation is a medium through w
the church can serve with confidence.

4

“Did you ever stop to think that noth :
beautiful ever came into life until folks be
to play?

“The spirit of play, which is the crown of w
and of home life, is also the crown of relig
So much of our religion in America is dour ;
grim. It does not bounce.

“One commonly hears religion presented
necessity. ‘You must be religious.’ the prea
seems to say. Well, I agree that religion
necessity. I do not think that civilization
proceed without it. But a vital religion is
more than that; it is a luxury. It is somet
to celebrate and hold festival over.

“There is great satisfaction in life for t
who take it always in a sporting spirit—for t
Who are living for the fun of it.”—-Harry E
son Fosdz’ck, in Living for the Fun of It.

I
l
9:
g,
t!
i

~t
H

l

t is called the Green Lake Field House

it strongly resembles a beehive, so

ut
eeming with activity is every corner.
HERE is no depression in the community rec-

reation “business” in Seattle. On the con-
trary, a decided boom is in progress that has
en all field house attendance records broken
uring the first month of operation of the 1931-
tz program. Never before in the twenty-year
istory of field house operation in Seattle has
iere been such consistently high attendance in
iese buildings.
Green Lake field house, Seattle’s newest and
{\rgest community recreation center, was opened
1 October, 1929, and has been the center of our
lttendance. Its fourth week of operation this
liall showed an official class attendance of 4,939.
Freen Lake’s structure is one of the seven com-
munity recreation centers in the city built by the
laxpayers and operated and maintained by the
heattle Park Board. A twin to the $125,000
:reen Lake building is in operation in the Rainier
istrict, although it lacks one wing that will be
ompleted as soon as a sufficient bond issue is
oted. The other five field houses are of older

4

 

By BEN EVANS

Superintendent of Recreation
Park Department, Seattle, Washington

design, having been built in Ion. They are
situated in the heart of suburban population cen—
ters with the one excttption of ('ollins field house,
which serves the dountoun residential district.

During its first fourteen months of operation
Green Lake field house served I3o,ooo in its vari-
ous classes. In addition to the attendance at
classes. thousands have made use of the building’s
play facilities. 'l‘wenty thousand children Until
the adjacent twelve-acre play field during the sum‘
mer. As many more used the field house locker
and shower room accommodations during the
swimming season, when part of the field house is
converted into a bath house. The stage is used
for a bag room and the dressing ruunls in each
wing are used for the swimmers. leaxing the
social rooms and gymnasium tioor free for other
activities. These figures do not include attendance
at plays, pageants, athletic games and similar pub-
lic functions featured at the field house; hence
an estimate of the total patronage at the Green
Lake plant for the 1031-32 season will reach .1
quarter of a million.

31‘)

320 A CENTER THAT KNOWS NO DEPRESSION

The Equipment

The held house is located on the shore of Green
Lake, a 250-acre lake in the northern section of
the city. This district is a large residential section
of the city and is tributary to the University of
Washington campus. The building is I46 by HG
feet over-all, and is of reinforced concrete
throughout, resting on pile foundations driven
below the level of the adjacent lake. The exterior
is finished in cement stucco of buff color, and
trimmed in cast stone. The interior is plastered
throughout, with the exception of the auditorium
ceiling which is covered with acoustical material.
The floors of the social rooms and gymasium
are of maple, the rest of colored’cement.

The activities of the building center around
the gymnasium and stage. The gymnasium, 90
by 60 feet, is of ample size to accommodate large
groups of spectators around the regulation bas—
ketball court and is easily convertible into an audi-
torium seating 750 persons facing the stage. The
locker, shower, service room and physical direc-
tor’s office complete the first floor. The second
floor has two large social rooms, a large game
hall, and a kitchen adjacent to the social rooms.

The stage is complete with an all steel gridiron
and fly-gallery with a capacity of thirty sets. The
stage switchboard is equipped with dimmers
in three colors for controlling the footlights
and three sets of border lights, making any
reasonable theatrical effect
possible. The stage is 35
feet wide and proportion-
ately deep.

The locker rooms have
steel dressing booths and
lockers and are serviced
with hot and cold water
showers. Equipment in-
cludes 100 steel lockers on
the men’s side and 85 in
the women’s section. The
heating plant is a forced feed hot water instal-
lation supplemented with a system for heating
and washing the air in the gymnasium. In
addition, the gymnasium can be ventilated by

opening the two continuous monitor skylights
in the roof.

Each of the two social rooms is 20 by 40
feet, with a well equipped kitchen adjacent.
Each has a fireplace, hardwood floors, piano

and appropriate furnishings for any type of
social affair.

cities which,

There are community buildings in some
practically unused, have
become "white elephants" through lack
of proper leadership, financing and pro-
gram planning. Here is an inspiring ex- the
, ample of a community house that is the
center around which the leisure time life
revolves. In its first
fourteen months of operation the house
served I30,ooo people in the various
organized classes conducted.

of the community

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 

l
j.
l
l

The Program

Many activities can be carried on simulta ':
eously during winter months. Basketball a
other indoor games are conducted in the gy
nasium, children’s games on the stage and
game halls, and social functions in the cl
rooms. N'one conflicts in any way with t
others.

A bird’s-eye view of the activity progra
at Green Lake will give a general idea of t
program followed in all similar centers, and
the same time it will show in detail the ope
tion of the largest of Seattle’s public play ce
ters. Classes are held continuously from 2 :
until 10 :00 RM. every day and from 9:00 A.
until 6:00 PM. Saturdays. Each Friday aft
noon sees a large gathering of grade scho
children gathered for a holiday program or f
frolic of some sort, while Saturday eveni
until midnight is reserved for general ad
recreation. Friday evenings are also open
adult recreation, with athletic games as t
usual feature. The daily gymnasium class
are for children in the afternoons and adults
the evening. Handcraft and gift making class
for women are held once or twice a week,
are tap dancing, art and similar classes f
housewives. Natural dancing and tap danci
instruction is given junior girls on Saturd
afternoons. Social roo
are so situated that th
functions can be carried !
independent of all oth
field house activities, wi
result that parti
d a n c e s , musicals, cl
meetings, civic gatherin
and a variety of comm
ity social events are c
d u c t e d simultaneou
with other community 6

1
l

ter functions.

A Week’s Activity

A good idea of the scope of the field ho
may be gained by following through a we
activity. The building opens at 2:00 P
Monday, and the pupils from neighbor
grade schools soon gather at the building.
gymnasium class for small girls, six to \
years, is the first group to use the gymnasi
followed by a class of girls from nine to tw

i

    
    
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  

i ars, another from twelve to fourteen, and a
’ urth of girls from fourteen to sixteen. From
N until 7:00 P.M. the gymnasium is open
, outside organized groups for practice ses-
; ns. From 7:00 to 8:00 o’clock a group of
'11 school boys has the gymnasium followed
’ ring the next hour by a class of business
I n for calisthenics. The last class of the
y is for mens’ sports. During the afternoon
(1 evening the club rooms are used by com—
nity groups, while at various times young-
rs play games in the large upstairs game
ls or on the stage. This program is dupli-
ed on Wednesday.

-l.

 

uesday afternoon’s first class is for senior
men’s gymnasium during the period be-
en the opening of the building and the dis-
sal of school. Then for the remainder of
ernoon boys play in their gymnasium
sses, grouped according to age and size
ch the same as the girls were. The first
ning class is for high school girls, with
ior women using the floor for the final two
1rs. This program is followed again on
ursday.

*riday afternoon the boys and girls gather
he gymnasium for a general mixer, a party,
sibly an entertainment program on the
ge. They play in separate classes for the
t four days of the week, hence the general
er each Friday. In the evening Boy Scouts,
l Scouts. Camp Fire Girls and similar
ior organizations hold their meetings in the
ding. Older boys’ and men’s inter-field
se athletic games, principally basketball,
played on Friday evenings, after which the
lding is open for general adult recreation.
aturday morning sees the boys engage in
'r inter-field house sports competition,
ietimes playing in their home gymnasium
at other times visiting another field house.
cing classes are held Saturday afternoon,
h separate classes for girls of different ages.
se are exceptionally popular and attract
or more junior girls each Saturday to
en Lake alone. Saturday evening is de
ed to adult recreation. The supervisors
erate with parents, guardians and school
ials by not scheduling activities for juniors
he evenings of school days, except on spe-
occasions.

he social rooms are used free of charge
any community group simply by applying

A CENTER THAT KNOWS NO DEPRESSION 321

and reserving the date desired. They serve
for meetings, dramatics, musicals, institutes,
civic welfare meetings, lectures, dances and a
variety of social gatherings. Either an organ-
ized club or an unorganized group in the com-
munity may use the facilities. Card playing is
prohibited, as are meetings of a religious or
political nature. Between five and six hundred
groups will take advantage of these facilities
this year, with a total of nearly 20,000.

Friday afternoon junior mixers are the mag-
net for 25,000 children during the eight-month
season. Eleven hundred attended this year’s
opening party, a circus and wild west show,
but some programs of a different type are limi-
ted to groups of five hundred. These parties
take the form of stunt shows, game parties,
treasure, circuses and similar mixers. Others
are stage programs observing holidays or his-
torical events of national prominence. Such
plays and pageants are held at Christmas and
Thanksgiving, Columbus Day, Hallowe’en,
birthdays of Washington and Lincoln, Arbor
Day and similar occasions. The entertainment
in these cases is provided by the youngsters
who present skits and plays of an informal

nature.

Drama

Juvenile dramatics play an important part
in the field house activities. A Junior Dramatic
Club operates in each center for all interested
in taking part. Instruction is given by the men
and women supervisors under the leadership
of a general director who has charge of all
juvenile dramatics. Frank P. Giles, founder
of community dramatics in Seattle and a leader
of such activities for twenty years, has per-
formed this task for many years for the Park
Department.

A “spring play” is given each year as the
feature of the juvenile dramatics season. This
play is presented in each field house, with a
local cast for each production. Two shows are
given at each center, making a total of four-
teen during its “run.” In many cases changes
are made in casts for the two shows at a single
field house, thus bringing the largest possible
number of children into the performance. Ap-
proximately 500 boys and girls between the
ages of four and sixteen participate in this
spring play each year, while 10,000 or more

parents and interested adults attend the
(Continued on page 355)

Memories That Will Live :

By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG

National Recreation Association

RECRExTION

CONGRESS is an

inspiring and
gladsome affair. The
mere mention of At-
lantic City, Toronto,
Louisville and other
cities that have been
our hosts brings mem-
ories to every Con-
gresser of stimulating
talks, vital discussions,
demonstrations, gener-
ous hospitality and the
best sort of fellow-
ship. Full days they
are, at a Congress;
for many of us they
have been two-break-
fast days, the second
dairy—meal a closing
“cup 0’ kindness” tak-
en in the wee sma’
hours.

That is a National
Congress. The Inter-
national Congress was
even more inspiring
and joyous, its great-
est implications-mseen, heard and we were treated 00

felt many times during the week No delegate to the International three festivals, a Hol-O

—turning one with new hope to- R t. C  lywood Bowl concert,‘
ward the best dreams of poets ecrea Ion ongress WI ever two tours, and sever .

and prophets. And that isn’t all. forget California's hospitality! other bounties, cad!

 

The International Congress was of which alone is
the first one of at least national scope to be held worthy of an article in this magazine.

on the Pacific Coast, in the Golden State, the ro- The international play festival, “Play Unites
mantic West, in Los Angeles! Add to this the the Nations,” was the most beautiful expression ,
presence in the city of 2,000 Olympian athletes of this kind that we have ever seen. (And this i
and the presence in our pockets of a ticket to one “we” is not an editorial one alone.) Nothing cat! I
or more Olympic events to occur immediately have greater significance than this, so we Wu"
after the Congress! Surely nothing more was start with it. i
needed to make a red-letter week. Yet, thanks It was held on Wednesday evening in the Pa ,
to the limitless hospitality of our California hosts, adena Rose Bowl where, from the seats reservT,.
322 ll.

' MEMORIES THAT WILL LIVE 323

     
    
     
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
   

r Congressers, we saw First of all the natural
eant of the Sierras in the afterglow of the
s set. Standing nearly a mile above the friendly
" lands surrounding us, these majestic hills put
priestly robes of purple, the hems studded
~ e and there with a jewel of light, as though
king ready for the evening service. \Ve con-
ued to feel their presence even after the dark-
5 hid them.
he festival prelude was played by a band hid-
w in a specially arranged arbor; a bright majes-
march it was, played by the Pasadena Recrea-
1 Department Boys’ Band. Then came trum-
rs in gay array from the north and south, the
r of them meeting in the center and sounding
irring call. A hundred Sprites of Joy answer-
dancing in from arbored entrances far to
r side of what' we were to discover as the
ne of play. If the reader knows'the fairy-
Scherzo from Mendelssohn’s music to “A
summer Night’s Dream,” let him imagine the
t gay and exquisite dancing to it. The Pasa-
5 Civic Orchestra, likewise hidden in a bower
green, played that music, and there through
. nd eye the very essence of play was revealed!
nother trumpet call brought the messengers
' lay, her kindred spirits of Friendship, Peace,
(1 Will and \Vorld Unity, the music for their
ession being the fine Triumphal March from
-g’s “Sigurd Jorsalfar.” Friendship and Peace
red in succession from the south, and the
r two from the north, each followed by a very
- company of attendants moving along—they
ed to be fioating—in a long line of color.
‘ four curved but differing lines made by these
N 1y high school girls bearing palm leaves or
t al sprays, a line of orange and one of green
the south, and red and
from the north, made

   
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
    
      
   
  

'ng the lines of a great

r. One of our leading
gates, a renowned archi-

'r
eful lines converged in
p.

, dsome groups on the

leaving a clear path to the throne itself for the
Spirit of Play, who was to come later.

Another trumpet call and then we heard the
clear voice of Friendship:

“Hearken, people of every land,

I come with Peace, World Unity and Good \Vill
To bid you welcome . . . .

The Spirit of Play will come

To weave for you a magic spell,

And bring to you her precious gifts

That joy may with you ever dwell.

These precious gifts—music, dance and games,
\Vill help all men to cast away greed,

To right old wrongs,

End worldly strife,

To cherish youth,

Rejoice in freedom,

Know beauty

And find great joy in simple things.

“Oh people of every land,
Give glad welcome to the spirit of play I”

Mr. John Hallam of the Pasadena Community
Playhouse was the voice.

The orchestra now played the Ponchielli “Dance
of the Hours,” and the Spirit of Play appeared,
a lovely creature in white, whose grace and free-
dom made the entire field of the bowl her own
though she danced alone and only in the middle
of it. At the final, most animated portion of the
music Play beckoned to her attendants, and the
orange, green, red and blue lines moved again be-
fore us, this time dancing in the fullness and joy
of the musical rhythm. The closing measures
brought Play and the attendants to the throne
where she was escorted to her seat of honor by
Friendship and crowned by her with a Hora] wreath.

Again the trumpets called. Play by gesture
summoned the nations to appear in dance, music

and games, and the voice of
Friendship was once more

feel like a creating artist In view of the Fact that the proceedings heard announcing the coming

they moved Slowly to- of the Congress are to be published in 'Of many peoples with their
d fulfillment. It was like a separate volume, little IS said In this

article of the sessions, which, as in the
_ past, consisted of general and section
ire being drawn before meetings_ This year there was added from the orchestra, and two
, or like drawing them zest and interest in the presence of al- processions bearing the flags

elf, and all in exquisite m°5t f’ hundmd dd'gatef 50'“ “her of all nations moved from
countries who told of their Sports and

outdoor life and shared in discussions of
_ . mutual problems. The responsibility of ' O .
from Memco, exclaimed government for th. "emotion of thg line on either Side of the
r, “The composition was people proved a subiect of absorbing in- throne. The resulting design

tiful throughout!” These “"9”: t° ti" "Pnsentativ's 0': °§h" presented at the throne was
lands, who expressed great enthusuasm

over the demonstration of municipal, _
county and Federal administration which Play 111811 0“ her throne, the

.V Steps 0f the throne, they had seen in the United States.

gifts of joy. Elgar’s “Pomp
and Circumstance” was heard

the same north and south to
the center and then formed a

lovely indeed: the Spirit of

attendants grouped on the

324 MEMORIES THAT WILL LIVE

lower steps on either side of her, and the hag-
bearers with their many colors extending out to
either side of this central “tableau.” But the rich-
est fulfillment was still to come.

As the music continued, groups from all the
nations came dancing, strolling, leaping, laughing,
playing into the bowl from the north and south,
all in costume. All that is best, brightest and
friendliest in the peoples of the world was re-
leased there before us, a never-to-be-forgotten
token of the liberating power and friendliness of
play. One was reminded of Shiller’s words that
are gloriously sung in Beethoven’s Ninth
Symphony.

One by one the various peoples came to the
center to dance or sing or do both, each heralded
by the trumpeters and welcomed by the voice of
Friendship: British, Irish,
Swedish, Danish, Japanese,
Tyrolean, German, Slavonic,
Czechoslovakian, M e x i c a n
and American Indian, each
group composed of people-—
mostly adults who, though
Californians now, are natives
or children of natives of the
country represented by them.
Each group came bringing
its own folk music and danc-
ing, and was cheered to the
echo by all the others who
filled all but the center of the
bowl and thus added still an—
other and the greatest wing
to each side of the lovely design.

Though each performing group was courte-
ously watched by the others, there was perfect
freedom among the latter. Some joined in the
dancing or carried on some other movement to
the music while remaining in their part of the
field. Some who were too far off to see the per-
formers well played games of their own. During
the Mexicans’ dance in which there were two
claps of the hands at the end of each phrase, not
only did many of the other people on the field
clap with them, but more and more of the audi-
ence also joined in the merry expression; spon-
taneous community dancing, if you please, and a
remarkably joyous affair.

Our own United States were represented by
groups from the Los Angeles Playgrounds,
schools and industries, and from the University
of Southern California, all in a mimetic sports

Joy, thou star From heav'n appearing,
Daughter from Elysium,

We approach thy light so cheering,
To thy altar now we come.

Thou hast pow'r to bind together
What the world would rend apart,

And where'er thy light wings flutter,
Love and peace are in the heart.

Joy, 'tis Joy! From heav'n descended, them,
Turns unseen the wheel of life,

Joy by love and hope attended,
Leading hearts from wordly strife,
Draws the stream from hidden sources,

Stirs the seed in earth confined,
Rolls the stars along their courses,
Moves the hearts of all mankind.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
  

drill. Just before they appeared, a trumpet i
followed by “The Stars and Stripes Forev
brought the Goddess of Liberty to the field

lowed by bearers of the flags of twenty-four
our States and met by another procession of

other twenty-four coming from the other

trance. Liberty took a place directly in front
the foot of the throne, and the flag-bearers st
at each end of the field, thus embracing the r
ples of all the other nations who had come to l

in this country.

Friendship spoke again :

“Oh, peeple of every land,
America now calls to you
To join in a dance for all!”

The orchestra played “Turkey in the Str
and all joined in a Virginia Reel. This done .
the centei' cleared, the S
of Play descended from
throne, followed by her
tendants, and formed f0
dance in the center, the
chestra playing a spiri
waltz. All the other part
pants formed a large br
circle of friendship arou

The Sprites of Joy
began the festival n o
brought it to a close w
their dancing while Play, I
attendants, and all the oth
looked on. Doves of pe
were released, Friends
made a plea for perpetual good-will among
peoples of the world, and a men’s chorus fr
the Glendale Presbyterian Church sang Gouno
“Unfold, Ye Portals l”

We need such festivals everywhere. Mrs. M
nette Brodke Spector, who wrote and directe
so admirably, is Supervisor of Industrial Recr
tion for the Los Angeles Playground and Rec
ation Department. She disclaims any spe
training in pageantry or festivals and insists t
the fine success was due to the unstinted coop
ation of the Recreation Departments of P
dena, Long Beach and Los Angeles, and especi
to the participants who, she says, “were ma
ous in their responsiveness and dependabili
One group came from as far away as Santa 3
bara; all, of course, taking part only for the l
and meaning of the activity. The Sprites of J
the Spirit of Play and all her attendants, and

MEMORIES THAT WILL LII'I". 335

'ternational flag-bearers were enlisted by the
'asadena Recreation Department; the Goddess
If Liberty and her flag-bearers were brought by
i e Long Beach Recreation Department.

, Already there have come requests from the
'rticipants, especially the national groups, that
her occasions be found or provided when they
ay again have the joy of such a festival.

It must be admitted that Southern California
'ith its enchanting outdoor places and depend-
" le weather offers ideal physical conditions for
l ch a festival. And it may also be said that a
ve of life, the prizing of health, beauty and
yous expression for themselves, that makes
. ch an enterprise a natural and welcome one,
l s evidently possessed the hearts of an unusu-
ly large proportion of the people of California.
he superb development of recreational activities
1d facilities is a token of this. But let us do all
'e can to find or increase that prizing of the best
- life in all our cities through festivals that are
ally festive, joyous, are beautiful in music,
lor, motion and design, are richly significant,

‘ id are very well done.

 

The Legend of the Pool

Like the International Play Festival, the Con-
ress itself was opened by sprites of joy. Our
rst general session took place at the Swimming
tadium where, after a welcoming address by
05 Angeles’ Mayor Porter and a response by
elgium’s Count de Baillet Latour, President of
e International Olympic Committee and a mem-
r of the International Recreation Congress
dvisory Committee, the “Legend of the

001” was performed for

s. This Celtic legend of
ermaids, a lost bell and

stolen cap of magic, of
veethearts, and a mid-

mer festival of swim-
ers, divers and simple
Sher-folk had, in the
- antic atmosphere of

05 Angeles taken unto
self also fairies,

ymphs, moonlight and
e dawn, birds, fireflies,

rogs and water-lilies,
lardens, shepherds and
hepherdesses, flower,
ruit and balloon vend-
lrs, milkmaids, a goose-

 

l

girl uith her geese, jugglers and tumblers, gypsies
and village buy: and gi '|~ all in a dramatically
true masque.

Play of the nnagin:mnn‘- -lt “as a perfect
holiday for that pmwr in us that can transmute
even the dullest uorld into a fairyland of delight.
And this pool of the Suinnning Stadium is at
any time far from being a dull place. The Los
Angeles Playground and Recreation Department
was, through its gifted Mrs. Van “'erden. en-
tirely reSponsible for this masque. And one of
its orchestras provided all the large amount of
good musical accompaniment. As in the play fes-
tival, there was excellence of performance and
design throughout. The sports of the mermaids
and then of the swimming and diving “fisher-
folk” in the pool were wonderfully well done, and
the dancing of the other groups was of the same
free and lovely sort that we enjoyed later in the
play festival, already described. The liberation
and joy of this kind of dancing make one realize
again that dancing is the oldest and most funda-
mental of the arts. Dr. Jacks is undoubtedly right
in pleading for such dancing by everyone. The
truth of the chapter on “Rhythmical Human
Companionship” in his recent book entitled “Ed-
ucation Through Recreation” was beautifully il-
lustrated in the “Legend of the Pool.”

The Music Festival

On Sunday evening we saw and heard impres-
sive examples of another sort of “rhythmical

It was a rare privilege the delegates had in seeing the
beautiful and joyous production, the “Legend of the Pool."

 

326 MEMORIES THAT WILL LIVE

human companionship” in the Griffith Park
, Greek Theatre which, in its beautiful architecture,
is itself such an example, a line kind of “frozen
music.” A large band made up of three recrea-
tion department bands from Los Angeles and
Long Beach started the festival with two Sousa
marches which Were followed by a short period
of community singing in which the large audience
showed international possibilities by learning
readily to sing a Round in French. The Glendale
Symphony Orchestra played a Beethoven over-
ture, the Long Beach Civic Chorus sang well-
known choruses from Haydn’s “Creation,” Men-
delssohn’s “Elijah” and Handel’s “Messiah,” and
the Albritton Jubilee Chorus of Los Angeles Ne—
groes were as moving and enjoyable as such a
chorus can be when singing spirituals. The mass-
ed band, directed in the beginning by Harold
Robert who is in charge of music in the Olym-
piad, played the closing overture and grand march
under the baton of Herbert L. Clarke, the re-
nowned conductor of the Long Beach Municipal
Band. During that march a processional of Camp
Fire Girls bearing the Bags of the nations moved
inspiringly down the side aisles to the stage where,
extending across the entire front thereof, they
were greeted by the band’s playing of the “Star-
Spangled Banner” meant to betoken the loyalty
that is paid to every iiag by its followers.

The processional was not the only factor in
making this an international festival. There were
several nations directly represented in the audi-
ence and many more nations, through descend-
ants, in the membership of the bands, orchestra
and choruses. Moreover, the excellent music on
the program is known and loved in every country.
It speaks a common language that makes us all
kin. Perhaps the most impressive thing about this
music festival was the demonstration that it gave
of admirable music admirably performed as a
means of recreation by groups whose origin or
maintenance is due to the
work of a recreation depart-
ment.

John Norviel of Glendale
was chairman of the commit-
tee which organized the
festival.

Tours and a Barbecue
Tuesday’s tour through
Los Angeles, Hollywood,

Beverly Hills, Santa Monica indebted.

,Pasadena and the “Orange Belt,” ending Wit

It would be impossible to tell of all the
many acts of hospitality which made the
Congress memorable, or of the unfailing
courtesy ofcity and county officials. To
these officials, to members of the staffs
of the recreation departments in cities
which entertained the delegates so de-
lightfully, and to the thousands of child-
ren who took part in pageants, festivals,
plays, and similar events, the first Inter-
national Recreation Congress is deeply

  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
    
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  

and the beaches, ending with a delightful tea
the Poinsettia Playground given by the staff
the Los Angeles Playground and Recreation I
partment; and Wednesday’s tour of Glend

barbecue, gave us enough to talk about to u
home folks for weeks to come. The many be
tiful views, the splendid playgrounds and par
the visit to the Fox movie studio, to the magn
cent Huntington Library and Art Gallery, and
the Pasadena Community Playhouse, to say n
ing of a dozen other red-letter experiences, w
not all that made these tours memorable. A gr
of recreation leaders in a bus are likely to b
good “show” in themselves, and in these tours
international show. A group of Hawaiian d
gates, with their ukuleles, guitars and real
waiian tunes and singing, delighted people fr
Oakland, San Francisco, North Dakota and N
York in one bus, and a group of singing Me
cans added to the merriment of an internatio
company in another.

The sociability of the Wednesday tour had
climax in the old-fashioned Spanish Califor
Barbecue that awaited Us in a Pasadena pa
To those of us who knew only the roadside “b
becues” that tire the eyes of motorists, it wa
revelation! A Mexican chorus affiliated with
Los Angeles Playground and Recreation Dep
ment entertained us, and soon thereafter we w
seated in the Rose Bowl to see the internatio
play festival.

The Closing Luncheon

Having started this article in the Rose Bo
we should, in keeping with the Californian se
of beauty, end it there. But we must go on.
closing luncheon of the Congress became als
festival, though not called so. Several of
leading foreign delegates, each speaking bri
of his impressions of the Congress, took us 0
more from nation to na
with a sense of the po
that play has of making
all kin. Each one spoke \
thoughtful admiration
sincerity.

Just before the spea
there came out of the C
fornia of 400 years ag
handsome company of yo
people in the costumes of
time, and danced for

escendants they are of the Spanish adventurers
ho first gave to that land of the Franciscan
Missions and the vast Ranches the glow of ro-
mance that even the gold rush and the booming
nd boosting of cities have not destroyed. Those
adventurers, unlike the settlers in our north--
ipstern states, brought their old world culture
ith them, with all its grace, urbanity and fine
. nse of the behavior befitting a lady and a gen-
eman. Their descendants brought it to us in
ancing to fascinating old Spanish and Mexican
I msic. The charm, courtesy and yet full gaiety
’. those dances, even of the
aster, more vigorous ones,
take one wonder again at the‘
ultural wealth still hidden in
his country of many peoples
tat can enrich American life
I nd help in unifying it if only
' e can recover sufficiently from
century of progress and lost
isure to see it, enjoy it and
ke unto ourselves whatever
. u it each one finds to be true
0 his or her own nature.

In spite of the many good
esthetic infiuences described
lrein, this article will end with
An introduction. But the Irish,
1. least, who are a great, beauty-
ioving people, will not mind
’diat; for it was none other than
h good Irishman who said, “I
lways was behind before, but
i w I’m first at last.” The in-
oduction we are meaning to
. scribe is composed of the ex-
riences of a jolly company of
out thirty Congressers on
I eir way to Los Angeles on the

 
  
   
  

   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 

 

  
   
   
  
   

 

l , MEMORIES THAT WILL LIVE 327

company that included Miss Legg and Miss Bar-
low of England and Dr. de Molner of Hungary.
We later discovered as fellow-travelers the P01-
ish Olympic team and the Polish Surgeon-Gen-
eral, Dr. Rouppert, who was one of the Congress
delegates.

Chicago Greets Us !

After an afternoon and evening of chatting
with frequent changing of partners, we were on
the next morning very cordially greeted in Chi-
cago by a committee of the city’s recreation ex-
ecutives. From then until sup-
per-time we were treated like a
delegation of European premi-
ers come to see the city. The
special bus and private cars in
which we rode were preceded
by two motorcycle policemen
whose sirens sent out an almost
continuous calling that cleared
the way and made trafiic lights
of no account whatever to us.
We were taken through the bo-
tanical Conservatory with its
unexcelled collection of tropical
plants; we had impressive views
of Chicago’s superb parks and
playgrounds, and demonstra-
tions of crafts were given for
us by children in the recreation
center at Gage Park, though it
was a beautiful Sunday. \Ve
toured the great Naval Pier
and from its farthest point
away out in the lake we saw the
city’s majestic skyline. \Ve
visited the Stadium, and we en-
tered the Science Building of
the Century of Progress Ex-

 
   
 
 

ennsylvania and Union Pa-
r- 1c Railroads. If RECREATION
.ere a magazine only for them,

The parks of Chicago, which some
of the delegates were privileged
to visit, are devoted to serving
the people.

position where, among other
striking exhibits, we saw a
model of the entire Exposition

’ could fill a whole issue with

ose experiences. But we must
la: brief if only out of deference to the hundreds
of readers who would only be made too envious
of us by a full account of our exploits.

' To begin with, we boarded two Pullman cars
Pennsylvania Station in New York with the
mfort of knowing that they would be home for

from one end of the country to the other. We

Oere soon entirely at ease in an international
I

ll

 

 

grounds as they will look when

all the buildings are completed;
a wonderful prospect that gave us. But most re-
markable of all, we thought, were the views we
got of the city’s twenty-five miles of fine beaches.
Those we saw were as attractive as the beaches
at our seaside resorts, and the large number of
people using them, fine and healthy looking in
their swimming suits, completed in full measure
a scene such as we go many miles to see and be

_-- _

328 MEMORIES THAT WILL LIVE

a part of and then dream of through all the long
months until the next vacation time. To make
many miles of such a vacation land in the city
and to have it used as we saw it used, all with the
more than willing support of the taxPayers (as
they have supported the great development of
parks) is an achievement of which not only Chi-
cago but the whole nation can be proud.

We were guests of the South Shore Country
Club for luncheon at their handsome and luxu-
rious clubhouse where from our host, Mr. George
Donahue, President of the South Park Commis-
sion, Colonel Gaw who spoke for the Mayor,
Mrs. Purvin and others we learned more of the
idealism that is making Chicago one of the best
cities in the world. In the evening we were given
free use of some rooms at the fine Stevens Hotel
Where we stayed, or walked in the lakeside park
which it faces, until train time bI'OUght us back
to our Pullmans which had been attached to the
Union Pacific train that took us all the way to
Oakland. The talk as we were gathered at the
station was full of praise for the experiences of
that day and for the Chicago people who had pro-
vided them for us.

We must pass quickly over the journey from
Chicago to the Pacific though
there is much to tell of the beau-
ties of desert, hills and sky, of
singing in the moonlight as we
sat or stood on the observation

 

-A few of the guests who enjoyed the barbe-
cue in the beautiful setting of the grove
given San Francisco by Mrs. Sigmund Stern.

Q

   
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  

l

platform, and of short walks in places where tl
train stayed for more than a few minutes, plac 
that in our childhood we thought of as the “wi
west” of Indians and cowboys. Mayor Buckin
ham of Bridgeport, Connecticut, who was wi
us from beginning to end of our journey and u
the Congress, was our spokesman at all soci
functions such as we had in Chicago and, lat
in Oakland, San Francisco and elsewhere. I
was also our photographer. One of the chi
events of the Congress for us, for what we th
called the Alumni Association of the Union P
cilic Railroad, was the Mayor’s showing of t
three reels of motion pictures he took of us a
that journey and in the cities we visited.

On a hot day Mr. Braucher did us the kindne
of having “a birthday which gave us the oppo
tunity to surprise him with an afternoon party i
the cool diner, a very jolly affair.

At Last—California !

Our introduction to California hospitality w
made in Oakland where upon arriving on a fres

sunny morning we were greeted by officials o
the recreation staffs of Oakland and other “ba
cities.” In a fleet of automobiles we were guide
to the Oaklan1
Hotel by three ex I
tremely efficien I

l

l
1

and courteous mo
torcycle policeme
Native flowers, eucalyptu
trees and palms seen on th
way were a fitting accompani
ment to our feelings and curi
osity on being' at last in th
Golden State. After ampl
time for a leisurely breakfas
we gathered in the hotel lobb
were given copies of an itin
erary for the tour, and a ver
bal plan for the rest of the da
which included an offer of th
use of an automobile for an
one who cared to go anywher _.
in the evening. The tour too
us through Oakland, Pied
mont, Berkeley, Richmond an
Alameda and showed us pla
grounds and other recreatio
centers that made one of on
Eastern delegates exclaim, “

thought we were doing pret j

MEMORIES THAT WILL LIVE

|.‘..

.o‘{. ; .
‘D . r.‘ ".'.__.
-s“- 14." -'
. O . ..

..'. 0'

d

l

ell in recreation in our
wn, but I can see now
at we are ‘pikers.’ ”

5 The University campus
'th its celebrated Greek

] heatre also interested us,
r d the lovely homes, hills and views from the
kyline Drive were a great delight to see. Mills
'ollege, a most interesting modern educational
t-nter, entertained us delightfully at tea. Lunch-
'1‘. 1 and gracious talks under the trees in beauti—
l Mosswood Park were followed by a playlet
iven by children in an outdoor theatre nearby.
he place for this theatre, which is now very at-
active, was formerly an ugly park dump. Here
'c saw for the first time what we observed again
nd again during the rest of our stay in Cali-
Irnia: the freedom and spontaneity of the chil-
ren’s dramatic and musical activities and danc-
g, and yet the unusual excellence of it. We saw
ndreds of children at play on that day in dif-
rent places and in all sorts of activities, includ—
ig handcrafts, and we ourselves had a swim in
fine large pool that is in charge of the recrea-
on department of Richmond. If any further
roof is needed of the valuable effects of recrea-

 

 

Down the hill, winding through the towering
eucalyptus trees, come a procession of dan-
cers and singers in gaily colored Spanish cos-
tumes, and For a Few brief moments we lived
again in the early days of California.

329

‘ p .9) .
9 . . ‘
o . "q
"'nn~‘ ‘

. -.-,..

Q



.¢~

I .' .
‘0.

‘Dg'l. .’i

v.
o
" 0

tion facilities and leader—
ship in a city, we can turn
with confidence to the
achievements in health and
joyous expression that are
to be seen again and again
in the California “bay cities.”

After a night’s rest in that good Oakland
hotel in which beds do not shake and there are
no cinders or dust to which four nights on a
train had accustomed us, we crossed on the up-
per deck of a ferry to San Francisco. The most
thrilling way to approach a city such as San
Francisco is by ferry, and we enjoyed it thor-
oughly. The Hungarian Olympic team was also
on the upper deck and they sang for us. In San
Francisco we met the same generous hospitality
that was shown us in the “bay cities.” \Ve saw
fine playgrounds, including a Chinese one, the
Park Commission’s Yacht Harbor, the Palace of
Fine Arts, the fine Lincoln Golf Course, the beau-
tiful Legion of Honor building also administered
by the Park Commission, Golden Gate Park—
an almost magical outgrowth of the imagination
and work of Mr. John McLaren — and the

(Continued on page 356)

Police Commissioner Mulrooney 
on Recreation Budgets

New York’s Police Commissioner tells

why he believes it unwise to begin bud- By J. C. WALSH
get cutting With Children’s Playgrounds' Member, Board oi Directors

National Recreation Association

them stole a motor car .
started out on their rou
They held up two spe
easies and then went int
store. People on the str
knew what was going i
Just then three of our
passed on their way ho
The news put them on d
again. They knew t
place had three doors. T
are trained to know 5
things. One went to e
door. The first man in
killed by a bullet thro
the forehead. The one
killed him was eightee

OLICE COMMISSIONER

Edward P. Mulrooney,

besides being exceeding-
ly efficient in that office, has
come to be recognized as
the most convincing advo-
cate of recreation there is
in New York. The two, in
fact, go together. When he
was appointed he was un-
liiiown except to other
members of the police
force. Presently the news-
papers were full of his ac-
tivities in hunting down
desperate criminals, espe—
cially those who made free
with the lives of police of— the Oldest of the group \
ficers. It was not long be- twenty_five. They had I
fore he had the ear of the Underwood and Underwood limelight this morning, '
people, and when he speaks there were plenty of 0th

0“ SubieCtS Off the line 0f Commissioner Mulrooney combines practise .Of the same ages- You ‘
duty it is generally about with theory. He instituted the Bureau not look at that kll‘ld
recreation. What he says ol: Crime Prevention with Miss Henrietta line-up every morning Wi
may be the same as what Additon as head. Tl'lls marks a new de- out doing some think

. parture in social service that may, in Future . . ‘
Others say’ but hls back- years, prove of utmost importance. And he about Why It IS always

  
   
   
   
 
    
 
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
   
 
  
   
  

 

ground is SPeCial and When has had his statt organize citizens' com- same-n
he speaks it is with author- mittees in all the precincts as an aid to his AS the story was tol
ity. When he was inter- Sand Lot League of over 2,000 members, sounded impersonal, so

not many at whom, he Feels confident, will
Find their way to the morning lineup, espec-
ially For killing police otticers, who are

thing that had beco
through long familia

viewed for RECREATION it
took less than a minute for

him to brush in that back- trainers For the clubs. TUSt Part Of the day’s W .
ground. The Commissioner is .
“The picture,” he said, “is always the same. In callous about his men being killed. Far fro .
the police line-up every morning what is it we He has made that sport most unpopular, in f 1
see? A lot of youngsters from eighteen to twenty- The man who entered a hospital and killed a
three. There must be a reason for that. It isn’t licemen more than a year ago came to a vi 1

in the papers, yet, but just last night three of end recently after doing his best to kill the o
330

ho tried to arrest him, and Mr. Mulrooney was
-, the scene as fast as a train could take him. But
« tching the criminals does not appeal to his mind

constituting a complete answer to the police

' roblem.

“We catch criminals, and then we turn them
rer to others. And then what happens? If you
, 11 think back over what has been said and done
zese last few years you will see that a lot of
e and trouble is devoted to these people. At
| - time you have a wave of sentimentality. The
' 'minal is held to be just a poor unfortunate of
' om no better is to be expected, and society is
I ited to coddle him for his own and the general
i od. Then you get a wave of opinion demanding
' nishments of extreme severity. The law im-
ses such penalties, and then presently there is
.demand for mercy because the penalties are un—
sonable. So the pendulum swings, and neither
ourse produces any definite results. The crim-
l is still there. The State has to spend more
a still more money on him. They try better
ildings, they try better psychiatry, they blow
. t and cold on parole systems, and still the tribe
‘ reases. We here have been wondering whether
- might not be both better and cheaper to start
' the other end. We think he might be caught
fore he becomes a criminal, and see for our—
ves whether he really has to be. That is where
' begin to be interested in the possibilities of
reation.”

  
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
  
   
 

  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  

{You mean that recreation is a help P”

- “Of course it is a help. People may say we are
t theorizing, but we see a good deal that goes
, and we know that where a boys’ club or a
. yground flourishes we have less delinquency
deal with, and delinquency, to the police of-
: r, is the by~path that opens on the main road
, crime.”

“Is it then your idea that if a boy does not
e the kind of play that is good for him he will
n to something that is not so good?”
.. ‘Certainly. A boy’s mind is active, and a grow-
V boy must have play. It is as much his due,
r a certain period, as food. ‘The thoughts of a
1d are long, long thoughts.’ Life in a great
, is hard on children. Many of them live in
' ments piled six deep or more on every block.
‘ homes in them are not all they might be.
ither are the boys’ parents; not always. Lots
good people have been poor, but plenty of poor
ple are not so good. The children may be un-
fed, weak in body, discontented in spirit, and

0

POLICE COMMISSIONER MULROONEY ON RECREATION BUDGETS 331

for relief where are they to go? No place for
them but the street where they are at the mercy
of every bully if they are weak, apt to turn into
bullies themselves if they are strong. That is the
foundation of the gang spirit, whereas what is
needed is the team spirit. We know that the
gang is the nucleus of crime. And we know, too,
that the boys’ club, the playground, have the op-
posite tendency. That is why we are for whole-
some recreation as the first move towards keep-
ing boys, yes and girls, of eighteen out of the
morning line-up.”

“No doubt you have noticed that there is a
tendency to cut down on the appropriations for
such purposes in the present budgetary emer—
gency. Do you favor that ?”

“I sympathize with the budget makers, of
course. I have troubles getting them to see even
the police needs as I see them and to provide ac-
cordingly. But you don’t suppose the difECUItieS
parents are experiencing just now, most of all in
the tenement districts, are making the problem
any easier for the child on the streets, do you?
We here know something about it. We ought to.
Last year we distributed a quarter of a million in
cash and made 800,000 allotments of food, to say
nothing of clothes for 75,000 children. Where

they are without so much, we ought, if we can,

to leave them what little happiness can be got out
of their play. Suppose we took it away. The bill
would come in later, part of it for the police de—
partment, part of it for the maintenance of
criminals. Maybe I am wrong, but my present
belief is that the money spent in maintaining a
few criminals will keep an infinitely larger num-
ber out of the ranks of crime, besides letting the
city youngster have the play happiness he is en-
titled to like any other child. With finances in all
cities the way they are, I don’t suppose we can
look for new capital outlays on parks and open
spaces, but I don’t see eye to eye with those who
begin with children’s playgrounds when they start
budget cutting. Of course, they soon find they
are wrong in doing so, but a little reflection in
advance would have told them that.”

“In the last analysis, if there is to be any per-
manent diminution of crime, we shall have to look
to our adolescents. .' Educators and social
workers know from actual experience that juve—
nile delinquency gives way before supervised
playgrounds and well organized boys’ and kin-
dred organizations.” Lewis E. Lowe: in “20,000
Years in Sing Sing.”

Halloween on the Playground

Comes again the
night when Fun
and Folly“ reign!

 

‘- ..

Courtesy Board of Recreation Cmnmissioners, East Orange, N. J.

Witches, pumpkins, apples, black cats, weird costumes and at ,

ow are you planning to celebrate noises! What a delightful medley of foolishness is Hallo
Hallowe’en on your playgrounds
this year?
Celebrations on almost fifty playgrounds were A Varied Program
the achievement last year of the Los Angeles De- 4:00 P- M. Children’S_ play
partment of Playground and Recreation, and 4135 P- M. Story telllng _
5:15 P. M. Games for small children
parades, bonfires, games, stunts, races, story- 7.30 P Bonme .
telling and costumed dances combined to give ' ' ' Games around bonfire '
enjoyment to the thousands of people who costume paradkprizes for the fun
attended. weirdest and most symbolic ‘
Stilt races—15 yard backward rac l
THE  . yard forward race; sack race 
A few of the programs presented on the LOS 7:45 P. M. Marshmallow toast Wienie roast .
Angeles playgrounds may be suggestive. For Old and Young '
A G I P 7:00 P. M. Bonfire
enera arty 7:30 P. M. Costume parade for small children
8‘00 P' M' 8:00 P. M. Costume parade for older persons
Lighting lire Races for various age groups 8 :30 p. M_ prizes f
Band muSic Apple 'bObbing 9:00 P. M. Wiener ba'ke Potato roast
Short program Fortune telling 9:30 P. M_ Games for young people '
Eumbling and Stunts Story telling 10:00 P. M. Games for older people l
m scramble The Mystery Man Visits the Playground
A Little Children’s Party 7:00 P. M. Bonfire lighted '
3:006 :00 P, M, Bonfire ((1) Introduction of Bobby Burr in plain c1 l
Treasure Hunt Bobby Burr will then retire and don a di l
Hauowe’en from; on hillside He will return at 7:30 and mingle in the a
Stunts at which time the costumed children will 
. u ,, to discover him. .
lntroducnng Eats (b) Parade of all costumed children
7:30 to 10:30 P. M. (c) Awarding of prizes to winners in parade ‘
30115113, Wienie 311d potato roast 7:30 P. M. The hunt for Bobby Burr, the M r
Races: sack race, three-legged, etc. Man 0'
costume Parade: Prizes ' ' 7:45 P. M. Announcement of winner of Bobb r1
Peanut scramble hunt 1
Apple bObbing 7:50 P. M. Games, stunts 
Stunts 9:00 P l

. M. Marshmallow and sweet potato roa l

332

HALLOWEEN ON THE PLAYGROUND 333

hree Day Celebration

ednesday—3 :30 P. M. Hallowe’en play—children
ednesday—8100 P. M. Hallowe'en dance and party
riday—3:15 P. M. Hallowe’en party—children
aturday—7 :00-7:15 P. M. Bonfire lighting

7:45 P. M. Community singing

8:15 RM. Costume parade and awarding prizes
Games
9 P I. \Vicnie and potato bake
10:30 RM. Finale

re Three Centers Combine

:30 P. M. "Fire Spirits” (a true Hallowe'en story
of long ago)

:00 P. M. Dances, games, stunts

:30 P. M. Party for all children under ten years of
age

:30-6 :30 P. M. Evening dinner hour

ION I

:00-7 :30 RM. Ross Snyder Boys' band'concert

:30—8 :30 RM. Stunts—boxing; three-legged race;
stilt races; backward race; tug-o-war; crab race;
serpentine; sack race; peanut scramble

00-9 :00 P. M. For mothers with children under ten
years of age; open house; pink lemonade and
cookies; peanut race; apple eating contest; the

ghost house; games
ISO—9:00 RM. Costume contests: Contest for the

best costume for juniors and the funniest cos-
tumes for seniors; selected by judges and popular
applause. Ribbons awarded.

Io.\' II
00-11:00 P. M. Program of entertainment
(JO-12:00 P. M. Free social dancing on tennis courts

'0.\' III
:00-12:00 P. M. Bonfire, wiener bake, marshmal-
lows, or "what have you ?"

Ghosts Wall:

,1 P. M.
1. Pie eating contest
Costume parade
Apple bobbing
Ghastly ghost game
. Bonfire and wiener bake
. Descent into King Tut’s tomb
. The graveyard at midnight
. Fortunes of the Foolish in Bluebeard's Den
. Pumpkin dance and other numbers

ong the plays given on the various play-

1(18 were Shadows on the
, Witch of Midnight, The

A FEW GAMES FOR CHILDREN

Ghosts and Witches. The players are divided
into two teams of ghosts in lines on opposite sides
of the room. Each team has its witch who, blind-
folded, sits in the center of the room listening for
wandering ghosts. The object of the game is to
see which team is lightest on its feet. The players
take turns walking around the two seated witches
and if perchance a witch thinks she hears a'ghost
she calls out: “I hear a ghost.” If she is correct the
player loses a point for his side. If a witch de-
tects one of her own team, it scores two points for
the opposite side. If a witch’s guess is incorrect,
her team loses a point. Needless to say the key-
note of the game is “caution.”

Black Cat and Bat. All the children, except
two, join hands and form a circle. The one who
has been chosen to be the bat stands within the
circle. The other, chosen to be the black cat,
stands on the outside. The black cat then tries to
catch the bat. The play group favors the bat and
lets him “fly” freely in and out of the circle. They
work against the black cat and try to keep him
from catching the bat by raising and lowering
their arms. They must, however, not bend their
knees or try to keep the black cat out by the use
of their feet. When the black catch catches the
bat, both join the circles at any points they choose.
The child to the right of each becomes the bat
and the black cat for the next game. If the play
group is large it adds to the fun to have two cats.

Apple Race. The contestants for this race
carry four apples in a row on each outstretched
arm to a given point at the opposite side of the
room. They may possibly arrive with one in each
hand but the others are apt to be found anywhere
along the way. The person who arrives at the
goal with the eight apples intact certainly de—
serves a prize!

Witches and Cats. The one selected to be the
witch kneels on the Floor with her back to the
other children and pretends to stir the broth.
The players arrange their posi-
tions every now and then so that

ful lVitrh, The Giggle
h, The Lucky Bunny, Hal-
. en at the Back of the
, Fire Spirits, Hallort'e’eh
' s, The Goblin Stone, Two
lVitchlings, Feathertop,
'ir'e Ghosts.

i

Increasingly cities are providing
Hallowe'en programs which will
keep children 0” the streets and
happily occupied on an evening
which in the past was so often
given over to disorder and the
damaging of property. Recrea-
tion departments are creating a
new Hallowe'en tradition.

the witch cannot tell their loca-
tions. The witch says: “N umber
live, tell me who you are.” The
player fifth in line then answers
with his voice disguised as much
as possible: “I am a big black
cat, Meow-ow." If the witch can

334 HALLOWEEN ON THE PLAYGROUND

guess to whom the voice b'elongs she says: “Cat,
Helen Jones, come stir my broth.” If her guess
is correct, Helen Jones changes places with the
witch. If the guess is wrong, the witch must keep
on stirring and guessing until she correctly re-
cognizes a voice.

Goblin Wants a Corner. Each player but one
has a goal, either a corner or other definite spot.

The one who has no goal is the goblin and goes
up to one of the others and says: “Goblin wants
a corner!” The one addressed replies: “Goblin,
ask thy next door neighbor.” During this time
the others change goals and the goblin tries to get
a “corner” or place used as a goal. If the goblin
has tried several times without getting a “cor—
ner,” he may go to the center of the group and
call “All change.” All must then change places,
thus giving the goblin a better chance to get a
“corner.” After- all the players have changed
goals the child left without a
“corner” becomes the goblin
for the next round.

Have You Seen My Jack-
o'-Lantern? All the children,

except the one who has lost
his jack-o’-lantern, form a cir-
cle. The one not in the circle
goes around on the outside,
taps one of the group on the
back and says: “Have you seen my jack-o’-lan-
tern?” The child addressed says: “How is your
jack-o’-lantern dressed?” The child then de-
scribes the dress of someone' in the circle. For
instance, she might say: “My jack—o’-lantern has
on a blue suit, green necktie and brown shoes.”
As soon as anyone senses that' he is being de-
scribed he runs around on the outside of the ring,
the one who lost his jack-o’-lantern going in hot
pursuit. If the chaser catches the jack-o’-lantern
before he gets round the ring and back into his
original place the jack-o’-lantern must be “it” for

the next game. If the chaser fails to catch his
jack-o’-la'ntern he must take another turn.

The Black Cat and Her Kittens. The Child is
who is chosen to be the black cat leaves the room
and all the rest of the children take their places
around the table. They place their arms on the
table and lay their heads on their arms in such a
way that they cannot see what is going on in the
room. The one in charge of the game then
touches several of the children on their heads and
they become the black cat’s kittens. The black

"Do you like to play with witches?
Have you ever waltzed with ghosts?
They say they’re entertaining

And they’re very merry hosts.

Don't be afraid to come around,

We promise lots of good fun-—
There's bound to be a iolly time
With every ghost 3 live onel"

Iwelcoming the arriving guests. Inside the doo

 
 
  
 
 
  
    
   
  
   
   
  
      
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
   

cat is recalled and her kittens meow for t
mother. She must try to locate her kittens
their meows. The first kitten to be found by
mother black cat must take her place for the
round. After the first kitten is located the i
must keep on meowing until their mother ii
them.

Hitting the Apple. A large paper apple m
from red paper is pinned to a cloth and tacke
the wall. Standing thirty feet away, each pe
is given a turn at throwing a tiny rubber bal
the apple. Each person who hits the apple
ceives a score of five. After five turns around
person having the highest score wins.

FOR OLDER PLAYERS

Don’t forget grown-ups in planning for
lowe’en. At community buildings, held hou
school centers and meeting places of all ki
there should be parties V
decorations galore to add
proper atmosphere.

Decorations
These decorations, the |
partment of Public Pl

grounds and Recreation
Reading, Pennsylvania, poi
out in a bulletin, informa
from which we quote h
make things interesting from the very beginni
Autumn leaves, corn shocks, cut-outs in the £0
of witches, owls, bats and caldrons all help
create the spirit of Hallowe’en.

At the entrance there are two jolly scarecr

a ghost who acts as director and points the
to go. Windows and doors are converted i
transparencies by covering them with yellow tis
and pasting cut-outs in various forms. Inside
party room there may be corn shocks scatte
about with a scarecrow here and there, autu
leaves strung on string or wire and hung fr
opposite corners of the room, and autu
branches used for ornamentation. Jack-o’-lant
and candles in candle holders made from car
and oranges provide lights, and an illumin
skeleton forms the major part of the decorat
Use as many mirrors, large and small, as pos
to reflect and multiply the lights and shad
Burning bowls of alcohol to which salt has t
added give a ghostly light. If there is a fire
colored fire powder should be thrown on the Pl
occasionally.

  
   
  
  

Another type of decoration is that in .which
.- paper is used largely. Contrasting colors
' orange and black. Shades are made from
nge crepe paper for the electric lights. Fringed
per may be hung about the room and in the
rway, and a delicate spider web can be made
winding gold ribbon such as is used to wrap
ts at Christmas time around a constructed
me similar to the spokes of a wheel.

Guests Arrive .

A good preliminary stunt is to take guests
ough a Tunnel of Terrors. Guests on enter-
1 are taken into a dark room and instructed by
ghost not to talk. When all have arrived the
st announces that all are to follow him in sin-
file. He leads them to a door whose knob has
n electrified and informs them that the door
' t close upon each person who opens it. The
st then ushers the guests through the dark
I .
mel of Terrors, each person followmg the
e which has been woven from room to room.
pended from the ceiling so that they brush
l
t face of each guest are hung stuffed gloves,
es of wet fur and similar “horrors.” There
the rattling of chains, a moaning by someone
off, and the blinking of two eyes off in the
ner made by using empty egg shells in which
ric light bulbs are inserted and which are
ed on and off every now and then. The
ts are brushed by a feather cluster and pieces
e manipulted by ghost helpers. The last event
re being escorted back is the bidding of good—
to the High Ghost of the Tunnel of Terrors
i has on a wet glove frequently dipped in ice
r. The guests then return to the party room
ames and stunts.

    
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
 

hing Partners ,4 $4.

v r
Matching apples which have been cut in two
parts
Matching paper pumpkins, witches or bats
which have been separated
Write fortune rhymes of two lines, half as
many as there are guests. Separate the first
from the second line. Give the girls the first
lines and hays the second lines, instructing
them to find the person with the line which
rhymes: Be sure only one of the rhymes has
. 1e same ending.
he witch does her best—or her worst—in
choosing these partners. The men line up in
one row and the girls in another, while the

  
    
 

 

HALLOWEEN ON THE PLAYGROUND 33S

witch, blindfolded, walks down the one line
and then the other tapping one person on
each side. These two step out and become
partners.

Games

Games suggested for large groups include
Skeleton Tag, Clzatty Travel, Pumpkin Relay and
Pumpkin H ztstle. For either large or small grOUps
such games may be used as Skeleton Names, H al-
lowe’en Pass, Corn Cob Swing, Flying Goblin and
Bottle Fortunes. Games appropriate for small
groups include Shady Skeleton, Witch Nine Pins,
Giving Pumpkin Face a Nose, Apple Dart and
Black Magic.

Skeleton Tag. Players form a large circle
and extend left hands toward the center. An ex-
tra player with a group of keys, runs counter-
clockwise around the inside of the circle with his
right hand extended. As he runs he takes one of
the players by the left hand who in turn takes
another player; the line continues to grow until
the leader drops the keys, when all scramble back
to their places. The last one to hnd his place
starts the next line.

Chatty Travel. Players form in a double circle.
When the music starts the circles march in op-
posite directions. When it stops both the circles'
face each other and players “get acquainted” with
those opposite. The next time the music stops the
outer circle tells those inside: “What I would do
if I met a ghost in the cemetery at night.” At the
next meeting the inside circle tells the outside cir-
cle: “What I think would be worse than two
skeletons serenading on a tin roof,” etc.

Pumpkin Relay. nPlayers line up in files each
facing a pumpkin which is twenty feet away. On
the word “go” the first player in each file runs up
and around the pumpkin, comes back, touches the
second person and so on until the last person in
each file has completed his run. The team finish-
ing first wins.

Pumpkin Hustle, Players form in files, an
equal number in each. The first one in each file
carries a good sized pumpkin. On “go” he turns
to his left, goes down the aisle by the side of his
line to the end, then around and up to the right
side. He gives it to the next one and stands in
his place. Each one in turn makes the trip but
must go around the entire line from wherever he
started. The file finishing first wins.

 

Forest Fires

and the Recreationist

By MARIE F. HEISLEY

Forest Service
United States Department of Agriculture

When you go into the forest to seek
recreation, be sure you do not add
to the forest fire's devastating to”.

I] IRE! Fire! Fire!” How many times
have we city dwellers heard that cry!
With what excitement we follow the
fire engines to an unknown destination!
Oftener than not it is to find that it is fortunately
a false alarm or a trickle of smoke. Sometimes
we come to a larger fire when a house, factory,
or other building is ablaze, or perhaps a lumber
yard is going up in smoke. And there have been
times when the engines led to a conflagration
which covered many blocks and caused untold
damage 'before the last spark was finally ex-
tinguished.

The man in the forest, however, has no such
loud alarum to tell him of the presence of fire.
Usually he first detects it by the “smell of
smoke” or by a telltale wisp curling up from the
trees. For his own safety he must try to locate
the fire and if he cannot put it out himself, must
summon help to do so. But even under the best
conditions it is not always possible to get men
and equipment to a forest fire before it gains
considerable headway. It may burn over acres of
ground and require a large force of men to con-
trol it. Sometimes a forest fire develops into a
devastating force that consumes everything in its
path, destroying not only valuable timber but
farms and towns and even human life. Such a
fire is a calamity of major importance, ranking
with flood, pestilence, famine and earthquake.
Forest fire has therefore aptly been termed the
“Fifth Horseman” that rides with the other
Four of Biblical lore over a careless world.

Fire has been the scourge of forests probably
ever since their beginnings. We have numerous
evidences of its existence even in pre-historic

336

  
    

times in the charcoal found in geological deposit
When wood is once reduced to charcoal its stru
ture may be preserved indefinitely. Thus fro
the presence of charcoal in deposits from t

Courtesy Seattle Department of Park:

FOREST FIRES AND THE RECREATIONIST 337

‘~'arious geologic ages we assume that forests ex-
sted and from time to time were destroyed by
re long before the advent of man.

 
   
   
   

Fire—scarred big trees in California show that
reat fires occurred in that State in the years
I 45, 1441, 1580, and 1797. Evidence also points
'0 forest fires in Colorado in 167 , 1707, I722,
753 and 1781. The \Nest, however, had no
'corner" on these early forest tires, for history
I ecorcls a fire in New Hampshire and Maine in
'761 and one in the region south of Mount Kat-
dhin in I 785. One of the greatest recorded for-
st fires of this country also occurred in Maine
11 1825. It is commonly referred to as the Mi-
amichi fire. This fire burned at the same time
 a fire of the same name in New Brunswick,
ut was a distinct tire, separated by many miles
rom its Canadian contemporary. The Maine fire
urned more than 832,000 acres, or the equiva-
'ent to thirty-eight townships, and according to
ne authority, de—
troyed e n o u g h
tanding timber to
. u i l (l thirty-eight

 

Campers were responsible for one twelfth
of the forest fires occurring last year.

cities of from 40,000 to 50,000 inhabitants each.

Since then other great fires have occurred in
this country from time to time. Some of the
worst of these happened in the last three decades
of the 19th century in the Lake States, when vast
forests of white pine covered practically all of
that region. Perhaps the greatest forest fire since
the creation of the National Forests in 1905 was
the Great Idaho Fire in August, 1910. Like the
Miramichi fire the Great Idaho Fire occurred in
a season of little or no rainfall. The National
Forests of the panhandle of Idaho and western
Montana were tinder dry and numerous small
fires were burning in the mountains. A pall of

, smoke hung low over the whole region. Forest

officers were praying for a change of wind that
would bring rain to help them put out these fires
when out of the Northwest came a trickle of
breeze which in a short time lifted the smoke
blanket, and promised to revive the whole parched
countryside. This life—giving breeze,
however, was “a delusion and a
snare.” It rapidly deveIOped into a
wind of hurricane violence which
picked up the widely scattered fires and turned
them loose upon the whole region. Impelled by
the 7o-mile gale, fires that were but a few minutes
before miles away, were howling and roaring
down upon hamlets and camps, upon the lone
cabins of settlers, streaming up green mountain
sides and leaping across canyons. \Vithin a few
hours this tidal wave of fire spread over 2,000
square miles of forest. When after days of
smoldering, it finally burned out, it left in its
wake billions of feet of splendid timber strewn
in charred and shrivelling heaps and blackened
stumps. This fire caused an estimated loss of
over $650,000,000 and the deaths of eighty-five
or more persons. This Figure, however, does not
include the loss in recreation values sustained by

the devastated region.

When Fire Takes Its Toll

W'hen fire sweeps through the forest, recrea-
tional values are bound to suffer. No other agency
can so effectively wreck the beauty of the forest
or create a scene of such desolation. A fire-swept
forest, where the burned skeltons of trees cast
their ghostly shadows, holds no profit for the
recreationalist, be he hiker, camper, fisherman or
hunter. For in addition to destroying forest
vegetation, fire kills forest animals and birds out-

338 FOREST FIRES AND THE RECREA TIONIST

right. Even ground hres which apparently do
little damage to the trees are a real menace to
recreational values. By scarring and weakening
the trees they increase the danger of attack from
insects and fungi which invariably mar forest
beauty. Ground fires, too, destroy the eggs and
young of grOund—nesting birds and kill small
game animals of various kinds. Thus repeated
fires, directly and indirectly through their influ-
ence on the food supply, are responsible for the
decrease in the number of game animals, birds,
and other forms of wild life in our forests. It
has been said that by destroying large quantities
of caribou food in Maine, the Great Miramichi
fire was responsible for driving those animals
into Canada.

Fish, also, are among the victims of forest
fires. Destruction of the forests on watersheds
tends to decrease the low and steady water flow
of streams which is essential to fish life. Fish
are killed by the complete drying up of streams
and also by the increased
temperature of the water
in seasons when the run-
off in streams is small. By
raising the temperature of
the waters of streams,
forest fires are directly
responsible for the death
of thousands of fish. In
the Great Idaho Fire it was found that the water
in some of the forest streams became so hot that
the fish were literally cooked. Forest fires have
, also killed large numbers of fish by changing the
chemical composition of the water. Brook trout
especially are killed when a fall of ashes makes
the water too alkaline.

According to United States Forest Service esti—
mates, 186,894 forest fires occurred in the United
States during the calendar year 1931. They
burned over 51 million acres. Slightly over one—
third of these fires occurred on Federal, State,
and private lands protected by some system of
organized fire control. The remainder occurred
on unprotected areas. Man’s carelessness was re-
sponsible for about nine—tenths of the fires on
protected areas. Careless smokers caused al-
most one—fourth of them, and ranked second only
to incendiaries as causes of forest fires. Campers
rank sixth, being responsible for a little over one-
twelfth of our forest fires. It is thus a fact that
persons who came to the forests for recreation
were responsible for a substantial percentage of

I love to wander through the woodlands hoary,
In the soft light of the autumnal day,

When Summer gathers up her robe of: glory I
And like a dream of beauty glides away. t

Sarah H. Whitman
in The Minnchiker, September, I932

  
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
    

the fires. If this is so on protected areas, pleasur
seekers must have been responsible for even
larger percentage of fires on unprotected fore
lands where there are no regulations about ca
with fire.

Taking Precautions

When recreationists are careless with fire '
the woods or forest, they are “killing the goo
that lays the golden egg.” Neither they the
selves, nor any others will seek pleasure amo
charred snags and burned stumps. It therefo
behooves those whose work involves recreati
in the forests to keep in mind the ever—prese
danger of fire, and to impress upon recreati
groups the necessity for constant care with i
flammable materials in the woods.

' If you should come upon a woods fire, t
yourself to extinguish it. In case you cannot a
this notify the nearest Forest Ranger or Warde
or get other help as so
as possible. A camp ii
is always a pleasant a
junct to a woods part
is also a potenti
source of danger. Shou
you wish to build one, t
first step is to get a cam
fire permit from Rang
or Warden if one is required in that area. Th
clear away all inflammable material, such as leav
and duff, for a distance of several feet, and ma ‘
your fire small, away from old logs, trees, et
Always extinguish the fire with water before y
leave it—and be sure it is dead out. Many
camp fire that appeared to be out has later ru
away and caused serious damage.

It is always necessary that care be used '
smoking, even when merely driving through
wooded stretch of country. Matches and cig
and cigarette butts must be completely out befo
they are thrown away.

On the National Forests, where Uncle Sa
provides excellent opportunities for outdoor re
reation, the careful recreationist is always w
come. But Uncle Sam insists upon observance I
the rules for the safety of the forests, and recr
ation leaders whose work takes them to the N
tional Forests are urged to remember fire dan
always, and to teach those with whom they wo
to be careful with fire in .the woods.

The Joys
of the Road

It’s not the weather that
counts in hiking! And each

season has its own delight.

HERE are 108 people in New Haven members of
the Hiking Club fostered by the Recreation
Commission who would rather walk ten miles
n a Sunday morning than ride a hundred in an
utomobile according to the New Haven Register.
hey know the exhileration that comes from swing-
ng along a well-blazed trail, the happy feeling of
ell-being that follows a scramble up a steep hill-
ide, the comradeship of a crackling camp fire and
he excitement of a tramp along moon-lighted
aths.

Cold weather does not daunt them. Give them
frosty, mid-winter morning and you will not find
hem hugging the warmth of their hresides. Early
orning hnds them well started on their way to
he starting point of the hike. At noon a stop is
ade for a luncheon cooked over a brisk wood fire,
nd by the middle of the afternoon, if this is not an
all day affair, they are back in New Haven.

Rain does not discourage them. While others
pend a restless Sunday scolding the weather man
for spoiling their week-end plans, the members
of the Hiking Club are on the trail, unless the
weather is impossible. Give them a gentle Spring
ain shower, and clad in slickers and rain apparel,
'they will get as much enjoyment out of the hike
~ 5 they would on a bright summer’s day.
And as for snow—they love it! Under a blanket
of snow even the most familiar landscapes be-
come new territory to explore and nothing is per-
haps more lovely than the countryside after a
snow storm. Then too, snow brings opportunity

for winter sports. Skiis and snow shoes are taken
along. Hot coffee is served at luncheon time.

    
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
    
 
   
  
 
  

 

ourtesy U. 5. Forest Service.

Only the hiker can know the satisfaction which
comes when the summit has finally been reached.

In summer interest in the hikes does not wane,
for it is indeed a relief to leave the hot city streets
and stroll through blooming fields and country
lanes. Every season of the year has its own appeal
and summer is picnic time for every lover of
nature.

The New Haven Hiking Club belongs to New
Haven. Its ranks are open to everyone. Organized
about a year ago under the auspices of the Board
of Recreation, its fame is city-wide. And as it
is a civic enterprise it is international and cosmo-
politan in character.

33‘)

340 THE JOYS OF THE ROAD

What makes the Club especially interesting is
the number of professions represented. Yale pro—
fessors, clerks, stenographers, school teachers,
librarians, office workers and men employed in
the shops of New Haven industries stride side by
side or in Indian file over hill and dale together.
The interchange of ideas and tastes makes mem—
bership in the Club educational as well as recrea-
tional.

The walks the members take are carefully
planned far in advance of the dates on which
they are to occur. Records are kept of each hike.
Thus far this year they have walked exactly 281
miles. A special committee takes charge of plan-
ning each trip and all possible material on hiking
places is gathered in advance. Advice is sought
and received from the State Forester, the Con—
necticut Forest and Park Association, whose
offices are in New Haven, the Appalachian Moun—
tain Club and individuals who have hiked in the
vicinity. Usually several members of the Club
go over the trail before the date set for the hike.
A second committee is in charge of the food,
while another arranges the various games and
treasure hunts which are introduced in the sched-
ule to give variety to the program.

The hikes are interesting from another point
of view. Many of the members are interested in
birds; others, in flowers: Still others, in geology.
These members are constantly on the lookout for
interesting additions to these fields of knowledge
and they impart newly found information to other
members of the Club.

Usually cars are engaged to take the Club
members to the starting point as many times the
trail opens off the line of trolley cars. In this
way much time is saved and the members are able
to devote the majority of the morning to the fol-
lowing of the actual trail.

An overnight camp is maintained by the Board
of Recreation. Every now and then a hike leads
to the camp where supper
is served and games and
sports are enjoyed. Up to
the present time the Club
has not stayed over night at
the camp, but plans are
being made for such an
outing this spring.

On some occasions the

Club holds its hike in the
afternoon, and every once

" Now the ioys of the road are chiefly these:
A crimson touch on the hard-wood trees;
A vagrant's morning, wide and blue,

In early Fall, when the wind walks, too;

A shadowy highway, cool and brown,
Alluring up and enticing down

From rippled water to dappled swamp,

The outward eye, the quiet will,

From purple glory to scarlet pomp;
And the strident heart from hill to hill."

By Bliss C arman

   
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
   
    
  
   
    
   
   
 

in a while a moonlight hike is enjoyed. when
members start just before dusk, hike until i
dark, cook supper and then hike again.

Every taste in hiking—for there are taste
this sport as in every other—is catered to. T
who like long distance hiking enjoy the trips
take them far afield. Others that enjoy sh
trails find them in the trails that lead them
of New Haven, and those who find particula
joyment in the moonlight walks can. organi
small group at any time or attend one of
larger hikes of this nature.

According to members of the Board of Re
tion in charge of this particular activity, the
is one of the most successful of the many e
prises sponsored by the Board. Since the I
was first formed its membership has incre
steadily. It is now thoroughly organized
officers in charge.

NOTE: Writing further of the organization f
the hikes, Miss Rose L. Dworski, Supervis
Bureau of Women and Girls, Recreation Co
mission, states: “A group of eight morning hi .
was selected and an attractive mimeograph
folder with details as to time and meeting pla
and length of hike was sent to stores and offic
Bright posters were distributed in store windox
aiid the newspapers printed the schedules.

“Before the eighth hike we knew who 0
leaders were. These were called together
help plan the winter series of sixteen hik
which were varied, some all day and so
morning and some afternoon. By the time t
spring schedule was ready for mimeographi
a definite set of officers and committees ha
been organized and the program arranged f
overnight trips, moonlight hikes and cave e.
ploring excursions, and combined canoe a
walking trips with alternate hikes for tho

not interested in swimming.

“The Connecticut F0
est and Park Associati
has made the Club r
sponsible for keeping t
Quinnipiac Trail, whi
runs eighteen miles nor
of the city, brushed a
cleared.”
Who Are These Min

hikers?

Twelve years ago 1

THE JOYS' OF THE ROJD 3-H

 

Courtesy Minneapolis Board of Park Commissioners.

A “hobo” hike is one of the events of the season for
the Minnehikers—that jovial band of trail followers!

vinter a group of people including Park Board
fiicials and others interested in the out-of-
; oors, began a series of Saturday afternoon
1ikes, each one routed to include some part of
he city park system. The original idea of
those making up this group was to acquaint
eople of Minneapolis with the beauties which
ay within the boundaries of the city. This
idea was gradually extended to include terri-
ory around the Twin Cities, and
"mm these small beginnings
ame the Minneapolis Municipal
Hiking Club as it now is. i
As the demand for more hikes
Lgrew, several Sunday hikes a
Imonth and also Wednesday
.night hikes were added to the
schedule. At first all hikes were
scheduled and led by someone
from the Park Board which was,
and still is, sponsoring the club,
'but gradually veteran hikers be-
gan to make suggestions and to
scout hikes, and finally in 1924
a committee of hikers was ap-
pointed to take charge of the
schedule.
In the early days, the hiking
season practically ended with

p. —db--,

the annual house part} on
Memorial Ha}, tn begin again
the first of September, al-
though many outings and trims
were gotten up by individual
memheis duringr the summer.
The demand fur summer events
became so great, however, that
it was found necessary to issue
just as full a schedule during
the hot months as during the
u" inter.

It is surprising to note that
the attendance on hikes during
the first year amounted to as
many as sixty or seventy on
one hike. It is more surprising
that hikers often had to walk
back to town, thus doubling
their mileage, as no special
buses were at their service.

During the twelve years that the club
has been in existence, approximately
49,274 people have hiked 5,610 miles. And

probably an equal number have attended the
social functions of the club. Statistics for 1931
show there were 114 scheduled hikes during
which 705 miles were traveled, the average
length of hikes being 6.1 miles. The total at-

(Continucd on page 357

And another important date on the calendar of the
Minnehikers is the barge trip up the St. Croix River.

-— —- C
—b -‘__.____—

 

Caurtcsy Minneapolis Board of Park Commissioners.

It was at such delightful
buildings as the Exposition
Community Clubhouse that
delegates to the Recreation
Congress were entertained.

 

At the meeting of Recreation executives he
in connection with the International Recreati

meeting of the recreation ex- Congress, many serious problems were fac

ecutives, presided over by W.
A. Kearns, Director of Physical
Education and City Recreation, San

T THE morning session of the

Diego, California, W. F. Hansen, to say that on the whole, municipal recreation e
Superintendent of Recreation in Tacoma, Wash- penditures for 1932 are not likely to be more th
ington, gave a report of some of the things which from two—thirds to three-fourths of what th '
are happening to recreation under present condi— were the previous year. ‘
tions and of the effects of the unemployment sit- For the most part cuts are in line with simil
uation. The curtailment of budgets for recrea- reductions in budgets for other municipal servic I
tion he designated as probably the most outstand- In cities where the work has been of a very hi
ing effect. order less drastic cuts have been made, even 1

the face of a crisis of municipal affairs. If h

The Present Sltuatlon as to Budgets been found that where there is a special board

l
i

A recent statement based upon the reports from sponsible for the administration and determi ‘
'more than fifty cities indicates that in two-thirds tion of policies the work is on a more stable bas {
of the 1932 budgets are less than for 1931, and It has also been shown that the presence of ‘.
the average decrease is approximately one—third active advisory council in some cities has been ~
of the total budget last year. It is probably fair great help in maintaining the recreation budget.
342

_ “fa

l/VITH THE RECREATION EXECUTIVE 343

Recognition should be given the cities which
e either maintaining work on the same budget
s last year or, in a few instances, on larger ones.

survey of forty-two cities on the Pacific Coast
nd in the \Vest indicates that in spite of neces-
ary budget retrenchments recreation depart-
ents are actually expanding their services. Of
he larger Eastern cities, New York has suffered
'-. actically no curtailment in recreation service
I is year, but is providing enlarged services as a
sult of the assignment of several hundred un-
ployed workers. In Newark, New Jersey, the
_ creation Department has received an appropri-
ion of $295,000, only $5,000 less than the
r evious year. Western cities have made avail-
le more than $9,600,000 in capital recreation
tlays in aid of unemployment.

    
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
     
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
   
    
 
  

CREASED DEMANDS

yYear Book reports for 1931 show an average
rease in playground attendance of seventeen
rcent over 1929. At indoor centers the attend-
ce has increased fifty percent, due in a large
ree to the unemployment situation. In many
'es recreation departments have been called
on to open special centers for the unemployed
to cooperate with other agencies in special
rvice.

In spite of greatly increased general attend-
ce there has been noted a marked decrease in
endance at facilities where charges are made.
many cities special privileges are accorded un-
ployed individuals and groups. In cities where
has been customary to charge a nominal fee for
- use of facilities and where the income has not
i n sufficient to meet the operating cost, budget
.cuctions have raised the question as to whether
. - facilities should be closed or the fee increased.
many instances rates have been raised; in
ers facilities are not being operated, or the
ration has been cut to two or three days a
ek. There is apparently an increasing tendency
charge for the use of
. nis courts, especially for
. ht play. Charges for
rking are also being in-
‘ sed or are being made
the first time. It is obvi-
s that there is a great va-
. y in the practice with
erence to fees and charges
I . lting from the present

4

On. July 23rd immediately preceding the
International Recreation Congress, the
recreation excutives met to discuss mutual
problems. This year, as was to be ex-
pected, they were chiefly concerned with
problems of the present unemployment
period, with budget curtailments, and the
with ways of keeping recreation services
effective and of meeting increased de-
mands in spite of reduced funds and
ces. decreased personnel.

THE EFFECT ON RECREATION PROGRAMS

It may be said, in generalizing, that recreation
authorities are attempting to maintain children’s
playgrounds first; and second, to afford a maxi-
mum of facilities and service for young people
and adults, especially unemployed groups. There
is a great variety in the program adaptations. In
some cities the summer season is shortened; in
others after-school playground programs have
'been eliminated. In some cases swimming pools
have been closed, although no record is available
of any municipal golf courses having ceased
operation.

An effort is being made to provide a larger
amount of service to the greatest number of peo-
ple. Many cities are, therefore, featuring their
picnic service this summer. It is not surprising
that many special features which for the most
part include small groups are being reduced or
eliminated. Among these are drama, art and
craft activities. Little new work is being started
although reports indicate that a number of small
communities are opening playgrounds under lead-
ership this year for the first time. Among them
two small towns, Puyallup and Sumner, Wash-
ington. In Tacoma a Civic Arts Association was
organized last spring and has been very active.

A few cities are increasing their service. Den-
ver has three additional playgrounds, Los An-
geles thirteen, and San Diego two. Los Angeles
is establishing a new beach camp. The play-
ground budget in Santa Barbara has been in-
creased from $6,600 to $8,200. The City Coun-
cil at Whittier has just appropriated $3,300, and
a year-round recreation program is being estab-
lished. Pomona is undertaking supervised recrea-
tion for the first time in several years.

EFFECT ON RECREATION PERSONNEL

On the whole recreation leaders have shown a
splendid spirit of devotion in meeting the rather
general salary reduction and in increasing their
' resourcefulness in making
the recreation dollar bring
the greatest returns. A study
of the service in nearly 100
cities which spent less money
in 193I than in 1930 shows
relatively little decrease in
number of employed
leaders last year, though
there was a decrease in sal-
aries. In some cities a split

344 WITH THE RECREATION EXECUTIVE

season has been adopted with summer workers
recruited from the ranks of the unemployed. Few
executives have left their positions although spe-
cial staff workers have been dropped in a number
of cities, and many playgrounds are being oper-
ated with reduced personnel. In a few cities the
recreation staff has- taken an enforced vacation
and in a few others, as for example, Columbus,
Ohio, and Detroit, Michigan, leaders have been
giving a considerable amount of time without pay.
One of the most outstanding developments has
been the increase in the number of volunteers. So
far as is known there has been practically no
change in the type of local recreation adminis-

tration.

EFFECT ON IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

In 1930 and 1931 many cities improved and
developed recreation areas largely through funds
allotted for unemployment relief. In Tacoma, re-
lief to unemployed was contingent upon work
done in the playgrounds or parks. Reports show
a decrease in such work at the present time,
though it is still in effect in some cities. A num-
ber of public spirited citizens have made large
gifts of land recently, realizing the value of such
gifts at the present time both in making available
additional recreation facilities and in aiding in the
unemployment relief program. As an example of
the way in which recreation departments are
meeting this situation, Los Angeles may be quot-
ed. Funds available for recreation purposes dur-
ing the coming year will be approximately twenty
percent less than they were in 1931-1932. In spite
of this, many new facilities recently developed
will be operated with no sacrifice in leadership
standards. Savings have been effected by reduc—
ing maintenance costs twenty percent, abandon-
ing two leased playgrounds and discontinuing the
opening of ten small neighborhood playgrounds.
A general salary reduction averaging ten percent
has gone into effect, and there will be no expan-
sion in the program of drama, music, and the arts
unless volunteer leaders can be secured. In this
way it is proving possible to carry on under the
reduced budget without seriously curtailing any
important part of the program.

In the discussion which followed, the problem
of “tagged” revenues was raised. Many people,
it was suggested, feel that revenues designated
for one particular purpose are bad. Modern gov-
ernmental trends, one executive stated, are away
from tagged revenues, and if this attitude pre-

  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  

vails the death knell of many fine pieces of wo
will be sounded. A study of the subject is n
being made, the results of which will be ve
significant. Recreation workers were urged to
on the alert and if necessary to see that lobbyi
is done in the state legislations. A number of
executives felt that it might be helpful if 1
group would go on record as favoring the m
age tax. It is pointed out that the matter had b
brought before the executives at previous C
gresses and there had never been unanim
agreement regarding it though many executi
were in favor of it. The experience of the
tional Recreation Association has shown t
where cities have had the millage tax the w
has stood up better.

What is Being Done to Prevent Reductio

Charlotte Stewart, Superintendent of Recr
tion, Salt Lake City, in opening the discussion
this subject stated that there is no panacea i
meeting budget reductions. Every community
different and varying factors will affect budg
Recreation workers must be “sporting” enough
have their work tested, even to test' their wo
themselves from the standpoint of quality of p
grams, financial status of the community, the a
tent to which the public has been sold, whether
not recreation is considered less essential th
other community services and whether public u
ticials are intelligently considering recreation a
other public tax services. Each community m
analyze its problem from these various angles.

Of major importance is the insuring of a d
by day recreation service to the public, and to
this publicity must be marshalled and the stren
of local organizations put back of the recreati
movement as it has been done in a number
cities. Miss Stewart stressed the importance
having citizens’ committees at neighborhood pl
centers, and using P. T. A.’s, service organi
tions and churches. Philadelphia is finding it a
fective to publish in the newspapers letters fr
playground children. The radio is very help
just at this time in getting over to the citizens t
values they -are securing from tax suppor
services.

Protests from parents through civic clubs is
effective means for maintaining sentiment for
adequate budget. Helpful material for public
is to be found in Warden Lawes’ “Twe
Thousand Years in Sing Sing,” in The‘Wick
sham Report, and in the publicity material iss

IVITH THE RECREATION EA’Et’Y'TIlT 345

the National Recreation Association. Delin-
iv ncies and crime may be graphically stressed
rough the use of spot maps.

Parks and recreation facilities represent a tre-
ndous investment in public property which re-
! ire funds to make it serviceable to the people.
1e next generation must not be S&t‘.l‘iHCCd, and
- desire to live must be kept alive. Through all
nimunity agencies must
me the insistence that
, ople shall live as well as
kept alive, fed, and
ven shelter.
1 Volunteers and more of
e people trained in our
lleges must be utilized
i leaders. The possibili~
." in this field of volun-
er leadership open up a
w conception in the rec-
}, tion program. In Salt
ke City, when it was
cided to close some cen-
rs because of the re-
‘ ced budget, parents se-
red volunteers to serve
: der a paid worker. In
e section parents paid
e dollar a week apiece
‘ keep a trained leader on
e playground.
A number of executives
ressed the importance of
ving civic leaders edu-
“ ted to appreciate the
lue of recreation so that
‘~ y will be ready to help
times of emergency.
one city a local attor-
y, in a five minute talk
a critical period when
e budget was being con-

.dered, was able to save the situation.

. The Federal income tax problem was briefly
.scussed. Because playgrounds and parks are
I considered essential governmental functions
creation groups are being asked to pay the tax.
Francisco reported that the income tax state-

nts for the local staffs had been filed but not
lid for the past year as the city attorney advised
ainst it. The issue is now being thrashed out.
the District of Columbia the operation of play-
ounds is considered a governmental function, a

decision which s‘IluLlltl influence the question else-
where. It was suggested that recreation workers
keep in touch with the work of a special commit-
tee appointed rc-vcntly by the t 'alifornia City
Managers AbSUCiallull to determine vthat func-
tions are gtwernmental.

Representatives of eight t'lllto reported a five-
hour day for laborers and caretakers. 1.03 An-

 

One of the many beautiful playgrounds which Los
Angeles provides for the children of the city.

O

geles was the only city reporting a five-day week
for the playground staff. It was the feeling of
the meeting that recreation workers should be
willing to share cuts along with other depart-
ments when this is the only means of meeting the
municipal problem.

When Cuts Are Inevitable What Should Go?

Raymond L. Quigley, Superintendent of Recre-
ation in Fresno, California, in introducing this
subject urged that recreation workers be pre-
pared to defend their program when requests

346 WITH THE RECREATION EXECUTIVE

come from tax authorities for facts regarding
their departments. He suggested the following
possible reductions in cases of emergencies:

I. The elimination of capital expenditures
except as gifts are available or made work
for unemployed provided through relief
funds.

2. Reduction in the cost of lighting by the
regulation of equipment such as the in-
stallation of quarter meters on tennis
courts, and by the turning off of lights
when courts are not in use. The same
principle should be applied to the use of
water and gas.

3. Use of the stagger plan or split work in
arranging of workers’ schedules. In case
of salary cuts the highest salaried officials
should receive the largest cuts.

4. Elimination of experimental work except
as it will result in more efficient work in
absolutely essential parts of the program.

5. Shortening or adjustment of schedule of
hours before playgrounds or centers are
eliminated. The work should be carefully
studied to determine what adjustments
can be made without detriment; in some
instances the number of sessions can be
reduced. If centers must be eliminated
consideration should be given such factors
as distance of the grounds from children’s
homes, the general attendance needs of
the unemployed, and the probable effects
from the standpoint of increase in delin-
quency if provision for recreation is not
made. Playgrounds in all probability
should be the last to go, though the pro-
gram for adults is highly important par-
ticularly in view of the unemployment
situation.

A few facilities may be made at least partially
self—supporting. These include golf, tennis, (and
the use of a 25¢ meter was recommended as an
economy device), and mountain camps. As a
general principle those activities should be re-
tained which meet the needs
of the largest number. There
was a difference of opinion re-
garding the relative import-
ance of the various age groups
—children, young people, and
adults—in their recreational
needs. One executive felt the
teen-age group—from twelve

It will be of interest to readers of
Recreation to know that the proceed-
ings of the International Recreation
Congress held in Los Angeles July
23-29, will not appearin the magazine,
as have reports of previous congresses,
but will be published in a separate
volume, which may be secured from
the Association at $l.50 per copy.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
    

to eighteen—may be more important than
others because younger children have the adv
tages of home environment, while the teen-
group is in an adventurous mood which ne
guidance. Another worker felt the program
adults was more important because their con
reacts on younger people and children. The
jority of the executives, however, felt that
general the grouping in order of importa
should be children, young people, and adults.

There was a strong insistence that high sta
ards of leadership be maintained in the e
gency. In making staff reductions enough trai
workers should be retained to direct the wor 1
volunteers, who must be given some train'
Volunteers can be effectively used without n
ting them in the most important positions. It
pointed out' that the city fathers must be
pressed with the imperative need for ha
trained leaders and they must not be permitte
feel that recreation can be handled entirely
volunteers.

Board members must be kept informed .
given responsibility for educating the public .
maintaining budget and program service. I
effectiveness of advisory recreation councils \
stressed.

l

Keeping the Service Effective When
Budgets Are Reduced

Josephine Randall, Superintendent of Rec
tion in San Francisco, who presided over the
ternoon session, pointed out the necessity
meeting the challenge of the relief agencies w
at first felt all funds raised should go for rel
but which now are realizing their need for
help of recreation to relieve them of probl
which only leisure time activities can m
“Don’t concentrate too much on cutting budge
she urged, “but more on educating public oflic
so they won’t cut.”

Dorothy Enderis, Assistant Superintenden
charge of Extension Department, Milwau
Public Schools, told how a number of cities,
prived of public funds,
secured other sources of
come. In one city a new
per raised money; in Birm'
ham the business men sec r
funds, while in Elmira
Lions Club raised $6,000 ,
keep the work going. Un , .
ployment relief labor ‘ 

l,
r

H:

l WITH THE RECREATION EXECUTIVE 347

Iped in many cities.
rand Rapids, as one in-
‘ance, bought a piece of
nd considered an eye
re, took down a number
f buildings for the use
f unemployed and erect-
u an attractive bath house
'ith salvaged brick.
Local organizations of
1 kinds have come to the
scue. In one city the
. al newspaper took over
e tournaments; in an-
ther a department store
onducted a buggy pa-
acle; in many, various or—
anizations have sponsored
aseball leagues. Some or-
anizations have made the
curing of contributions
f play equipment their
sponsibility. Milwau-
ee’s center for unemploy-
d was equipped entirely
y contribution as far as
iaterials were concerned. The mere collection of
ecks of cards for the centers has awakened
many people to the value of recreation.

“Don’t overdo volunteer help,” Miss Enderis
'arned, “There are situations which demand the
ost highly skilled leadership and there should

a paid worker in charge wherever volunteers
re introduced.” Adult activities can carry on in
iany cases with a little help from the recreation
epartment. In Irvington, New Jersey, with the
udget reduced no funds were available for the
rchestra. The director offered to give his serv-
es, the members volunteered to pay dues, and
he orchestra carried on.

Stimulate other local organizations to provide
5 many activities as possible and help them to
ake their contribution most effective by train-
g volunteers. Milwaukee is to have a social
ecreation institute limited to four representa-
ives from each local organization. People who
ttend will pledge themselves to conduct games.
ne of the great benefits which should come out
f this period is an increase in home play. Mil-
aukee will have institutes this winter in which
able games and other games at home will be
hught

Much of the discussion which followed Miss

 

In Griffith Park, one of the great play centers
of Los Angeles, is a large outdoor swimminq pool.

Enderis’ suggestions centered about the made
work program which many cities are conducting.
San Francisco reported that with $57,000 avail-
able for materials and construction through the
use of unemployed labor will do about $300,000
worth of work. The question was raised by one
executive whether the recreation movement in its
capital expenditures, is acting wisely in tying in
with the unemployment relief program. “Are we
making the economic situation worse by bor-
rowing money and making improvements for
which future generations will have to pay?”

In answer to this it was pointed out that the
bond issues which are being made are not the re-
sponsibility of recreation departments, but are
emergency measures which are keeping people
from starving. Recreation departments are put-
ting men to work, many of them high grade
technical men who are giving real service and are
happy to give it, and are thereby preserving their
morale at the same time they are deve10ping rec-
reation facilities which need improvement. There
is no danger that too many parks and playgrounds
are being created—there have never been enough.
It is in line with modern thinking in the engineer-
ing profession that in periods of depression con-
struction programs should be undertaken within

348 WITH THE RECREATION EXECUTIVE

legal limits for which future generations will pay.
The only possible danger would lie in the in-
crease of facilities which will be damaging if
they are not properly supervised and adminis-
tered. Recreation service would be greatly im-
paired if local recreation departments should in-
stall elaborate plants poorly maintained.

The Special Contribution of Recreation in a
Period of Unemployment

While the recreation movement in a number
of localities is serving unemployed men segre—
gated in shelters, the main issue, V. K. Brown of
Chicago pointed out, is the contribution to the
community at large which is affected by unem-
ployment, and the expansion and adaptation of
the program.

When faced in Chicago with the necessity for
making reduced funds meet the situation, all
workers took a twenty percent salary cut. Then
came cuts in departmental budgets. A study was
made of the use of buildings and it was found
that the unit cost per individual was greater in
the early morning and late at night, so the build-
ings were closed at 10:00 p. m. unless the users
were willing to pay the cost. A lecture group or
fraternal order were charged $10.00 for extra
hours.

To meet the needs of the older boys who were
inclined to use the recreation building more or
less as a loafing place, the plan was followed of
setting up an informal social game program in-
stead of reserving the hall for specific purposes.
There has been a tremendous increase in attend-
ance at such activities as quilting clubs and horse
shoe pitching and a greater spirit of neighborli-
ness is creeping into the program.

Instead of offering med-
als or ribbons as awards for
activities, the South Park
Commission is now making
no awards. Without incen-
tive participation is increas-
ing and more spectators are
coming to the parks. Com-
ing out of it all is a grow-
ing sympathy for the men
out of work and more
neighborliness. At the
South Park centers an ef-
fort is being made to phrase
rulings and prohibitions a
way which will not irritate.

ls Public Recreation a Necessity?

First, one must find out what is meant by
the word necessity. I think life could go on
without recreation, of course. But I'm not
so sure that living could . .. When we speak
of necessities now I don't think we often
refer to the sorts of things that merely let
life vegetate in us, things necessary For a bare
subsistence. Civilization has done that for
us—it has accustomed us to thinking of
other things as necessities, things of the
spirit as well as the body, things that mean

to us living, not merely life. If these are
what is meant by necessities, then it seems

to me there is some ground for considering

recreation a necessity.—V. K. Brown, Parks
and Recreation, February, I932.

  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
    
 
   
 
 
 

The depression is bringing about a better hum
understanding.

Speaking of the provision of recreation f
older men in shelters, Mr. Brown designat
them as “important places for the stability
civilization.” A program should be provid
which has the utmost of activity in it. Op
forums which are seized upon by agitators m
be handled carefully.

The Public Athletic League in Baltimore,
was reported in the discussion, provides recr
tion in the Salvation Army Shelters. It has be
difficult to secure the participation of men in .
tivities. Chicago reported engaging a sociolo
to make a study of the recreation provided at t
Chicago shelters. He criticized the low perce
age of participation on the part of the men a
the failure to provide vehicles through whi
more men could get into action.

Effect of Unemployment on Future
Recreation Policies

Summing up the day’s discussion, Sibyl Bak
Director of Municipal Playgrounds, Washi
ton, D. C., said:

“During the day I have been deeply interest
in listening as the executives of our American I
partments of Recreation have unfolded the hi
tory of our recreation movement in the Unit
States. We have looked back to those days wh
we first began the good fight for recreation.
those earlier years we sought recreational opp
tunities for the under-privileged in our crowd
cities. We urged the value of recreation in chec
ing juvenile delinquency. We pointed out t
necessity of playgrounds that our children mi
be safe. Many of us remember the ardent ar
ments of those early days
the right of the poor
play opportunities ; the ne
of proper activities to che
wayward youth; the sud
disappearance in our gr
cities of the street p
which had served for
decades for our childr
and which the automo
had suddenly checked. T
we passed through a peri
in which the slogan was '
right of every child to
place to play, and for
decade the children w

    
 
 
  
     
    
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  

. ost our only preoccupation. But as we sup-
ed our children with splendid facilities in
‘1 00] and on playground, little by little we found
ll at the adult wanted his share of the use of
se facilities, and we passed into that period
I, ere we began to place the school at the dis-
sal of the adult when the school day was done,
» d when our parks began to develop magnificent
ying fields and courts to which the grown-ups
‘ the community flocked.

1“Today we have learned that all of the people
seeking what we have to offer. Parents de-
. nd our services. While communities are or-
. iizing to back up our efforts. Even the unem-
yed are organizing that they may have their
re in our programs. Leading business men ap-
ar before OUr budget committees and argue for
e funds we need. Lawyers and leaders come
lunteering their services to carry out our pro-
ams. We cannot leave today’s conference with-
t realizing that in more than this quarter of a
tury of service which it has given us, the Na—
na] Recreation Association has been aiding us
reation workers in a tremendous task. I am
inded of the words of King Edgar, in that
utiful poem which serves as libretto to the
ra “The King’s Henchmen,” when looking

k over the labors of his life he sees himself :
Hewing and heaving

Setting stone upon stone,
Building Englandl

“So we workers in recreation, each one busy
on his own task, working through these years,
denly find that we have builded an edifice;
4 1 we face a new era when we carry the re-
nsibility of the morale, of the spirit of the
munity. In our hands is the health of society.
m standing here to look upon what we have
ilded. We are asking ourselves, ‘what shall be
r labors for the future?’ We have today been
apitulating what America has done in recrea-
n before we go forward next week into the In-
national Recreation Congress to hear what
er nations have done. We realize that the times
and of us that we should evaluate our pro-
ms, our budget, our personnel. We must come
a clearer understanding of what we are after
a estimate definitely the effects of all that we
' doing. The useless, the Unnecessary, the triv-
we must slough off. Our funds and our serv-
must go farther than ever before, and our
'ons must go farther.

. ‘Cert‘ain things have been taught us by the
mployed, those with added leisure, and those

l

WITH THE RECREATION EXECUTIVE 349

with nothing but leisure; those who yesterday
were well-to-do, and busy, who today have idle
time on their hands. \Ve find that they desire to
be participants, not spectators; that they are seek-
ing activity, not entertainment; that they ask self-
improvement to overcome futility.

“I am about to return to my home city to plead
for my budget, and I feel a very real gratitude to
those who have today given us their experiences.
We must each one of us determine very clearly
the value of each aspect of our program, of each
area which we administer, of each worker whom
we employ. It behooves us to ask of our financ-
ing body no more in money than we can put at
really valuable work in the community.

“I hope that the National Recreation Associa-
tion will assist the various communities in deter-
mining that recreation is a governmental func-
tion, along with schools and hospitals. I believe
that we are ready to meet the delegates from
other nations who come to this International Con-
gress with a story to tell of recreation in America
of which we all should be justly proud.”

“The use of leisure time without question will
be in the next few years a great peril and a great
opportunity in our country. The rapid introduc-
tion of technological change is bound to release
workers from industry and to reduce daily hours
of labor, shorten the work week and extend vaca-
tions. Surely our American sense of fitness will
lead to the shortening of hours rather than throw-
ing upon the public masses of unemployed human
beings. Provision for adult education, stimula-
tion of physical recreation, appreciation of art in
the form of dramatics and of graphic and plastic
arts, of rhythmic expression, education in self-
expression, the opening up of crafts and of gar-
dening—all these opportunities must be given to
the mass of people or the devil will take his toll.

“Probably great changes will come in all types
of social work, and every department of social
welfare will be challenged, but no one part of
the program that has been carried on will have
greater opportunity or greater strain upon its re-
sources and upon its creative and imaginative
qualities than the department of recreation with
responsibility for taking care of increased and
increasing leisure time. Certainly we must look
to the National Recreation Association and all of
the other national and local associations to meet
these demands.”—Dr. Susan K ingsbury, Director,
Department of Social Economy, Bryn Mawr

College.

WHAT to do when

Doubling Up On
FaCilitieS was the problem fac-

ed by the Lancaster,
Pennsylvania, Recreation and Playground Asso—
ciation. The solution was found last summer in
the use of certain facilities for more than one
activity. For example, the wading pool, emptied
at four o'clock, was used from five until dark as
a paddle tennis court at one end, and at the other
a rubber quoit court and large checker board 15
feet square. Checker boards are stencilled on
benches in such a way that two men astride the
bench may have a checker board between them.
In this way it has been possible to meet the needs

of the older men who frequent the park.

“ M A K E the back

yard beautiful—grow
vegetables for your
family,” was the slo—
gan adopted in the contest conducted last summer
in Cambridge by the Recreation Division of the
Park Department, the League of Women Voters
and the Unemployment Committee. All school
children of the city were eligible. Registration
blanks were supplied and seeds furnished free if
the yOUng gardener could not afford to pay for
them. Three hundred and eighty-eight children
registered; 197 gardens were in the running at
the close of the contest when the Massachusetts
Horticultural Society made awards.

350

Back Yard
Gardens

l i , '
I M,” ’ I
.- are
,7 .
/ ’ (
“awake -
a

T" A... a” . “node”... N

play areas are small

       
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
   
  
   

unapuaaw unpaWAy. . A-‘mqw.h~a.._.¢.n.-c, - p11... . _, ,_

There’s real novelty, Lancaster fi
in playing checkers in a wading po

WHEN the Salt L

City recreation o
cials annOUnced t
. several playgrou
must remain closed for the summer because
lack of funds, the mothers of Whittier Sch
held' a conference. Under the leadership of l
Whittier Parent-Teacher Association they «
tained playground equipment by private donati
and arranged with the Board of Education '
its installation. Thirty-eight mothers voluntee
to direct activities with the advice of the sup
visor of city recreation.

Mothers to the
Rescue !

IT was on June
Twenty-five Years 1907, that the ii

of Service

I
l
l
i
1

Recreation Com
sion of East Oran
New Jersey, then called Playground Commissi
was organized. The first law permitting expen
tures for public recreation had been passed
the 1907 legislature, and East Orange was one
the first cities in New Jersey to take advant’
of this law. Lincoln E. Rowley was appoin
Secretary and General Custodian in 1907, .
today he is still serving in the capacity. Dur
the twenty-five years of Mr. Rowley’s ser
nearly $1,000,000 has been invested for beaut
properties. Maintenance and operating costs
now about $50,000 a year. From the begin
the Recreation Commission has sought to n
all the grounds as park—like as possible witl

 
    
    
    
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
 

IVORLD AT PLAY 351
A rfering with their proper use. Three of the I - ‘ -1
. major properties secured were formerly :' :

 

ps. By improving these areas adjacent prop-
r has been enhanced in value so that in one in-
ice at least it is possible to show that these in-

. . . Playgrounds
ses are already paying the annual maintenance 9
' operating cost. The Commission celebrated  fd 

twenty-fifth anniversary by the publication of t

.
autifully illustrated report.   o o o o 0

Contest in Negro Spirituals.—The City I I

partment of Recreation of Lynchburg, Vir-
ia, has held its fourth annual Quartet and
3' oist Contest for Negroes. Judging for the
rtets was done on the basis of interpreta-
1, effectiveness, stage presence and har-
ny, and ten was the maximum number of
dits which could be given on one point.

the solo work judging was done on inter-
tation, effectiveness, stage presence, tonal

lity, pronunciation and enunciation.

_ or the Anglers of Rochester.—The City of
chester, New York, has secured the coop-
0 tion of the Bureau of Fisheries and other
ncies in its effort to provide fishing grounds
children and adults in its public parks.
7 is utilization of the thirty-five lakes in the
k system will not only provide amusement
"u recreation but will furnish a sufficiently
e number of fish to stock many of the lakes
it“ streams of Monroe County. Large and  900110111)’ all“ health

all mouthed black bass and other game spe- urge this protection!

. “'1” be PropagatEd- Some Of. the lakes PROTECTION of children against the dirt and
I be set asnde for the use of children who dangers of dust! Protection of the playing

‘ . r - surfaces against disintegration which is the cause of
it to .flbl'l \Vlth whatet er equipment they dust! Both kinds of protection are assured with the
'c available. Other lakes Wlll be open to use of Solvay Calcium Chloride on gravel and earth
regulated taking of fish by adults, and still

surfaces.

. . . . Playgrounds everywhere find Solvay treatment the
er lakes Will be utilized exc'luswely for ideal way to end the dust nuisance. Clean and white,
pagation. it does _not track or stain. It is easy to apply and

economical to use. And in addition to keeping down
dust, it actually kills harmful germs that live and
breed in dust.

Let Solvay Calcium Chloride help you lower the cost
of keeping surfaces in good condition. Write today

for booklet 1159 and full information.
SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

Alkali” and Chemical Products Alanufacturod by
The Solray Process Company

61 Broadway New York

SoINAY

YRADE MARK are. U. 5. PAT. 0".

Calcium Chloride

ml... 779; - 30%

 

HELP WANTED

ALESMEN—who call on schools and

colleges, willing to sell an additional

| line consisting of academic caps. gowns.

hoods, gymnasium outfits. hockey out-

. fits. school uniforms. State territory

and qualifications. Excellent oppor-

tunity to connect with old established

firm. Box 208. National Recreation
Association, New York City.

 

 

352 . IVORLD AT PLAY

Park Police and the Recreation Program.—
One of the most important features in the
organization of a year round recreation sys-
tem, Mr. James S. Stevens of Springfield,
Massachusetts, has pointed out, is an adequate
system of guarding its properties and of guid-
ing the vast number of people who visit vari-
ous areas such as parks. Experience shows
that this can be effectively accomplished,
where circumstances permit, through a well
organized and directed force of permanent
park police.

Leadership.—In Plainlield,'New Jersey, it
has formerly been the custom of the Superin-
tendent of Recreation, Roy O. Schlenter, to
secure volunteers from the Kiwanis and Ro-
tary Clubs to help in certain activities. This
year he is putting up to the various clubs the
idea of taking over the sponsorship for certain
activities which involve financing and volun-
teer leadership. For example, he has asked the
Kiwanis Club to take full charge of boys’ base-
ball; the Rotary Club has been asked to take
responsibility for another activity. A much
more enthusiastic interest on the part of these
clubs has been the result, and there has been
an increase in the number of volunteers.

Springfield, with a population of about
150,000 people, has maintained a regular force
of park police for over twenty-five years. This
unit, which is-a regular division of the Park
Department organizations, includes a lieuten-
ant, sergeant and twelve patrolmen. Three
patrolmen are assigned to motor cycles, and it
is estimated that at least 60 per cent of the en-
tire park and recreation acreage is policed by
these men, especially during open seasons of
the year. The park policemen are trained “to
warn, check, guide, inform and instruct park
and recreation visitors and not to arrest and
punish except for some wilful and flagrant
misdemeanor.” Policemen who are trained in
this principle soon come to realize that the
great mass of people visit recreation areas for
enjoyment and not to create trouble.

Church Playground Not Tax Exempt.—
“Land owned by the church and used as a
playground is not exempt from taxation, ac-
cording to the attorney general.”—Note from
October, 1931, issue of The Municipality pub-
lished by the League of \Visconsin Munici-
palities.

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  

A Playground for Preschool Children.
new playground, less than an acre in area,
been added to the playground system of
con, Georgia, which has been laid out in ~
a manner that it can be used for the presc
age child and for childrens’ dramatics.

A Home Recreation Course.-—-A numb
outstanding women’s organizations in C
land, Ohio, together with the Adult Educ:
Association, are sponsoring a Home Re
tion Course extending from January 29t
March 2nd. The City Division of Recre
in association with Cleveland College, 15
ducting a series of demonstrations in cm
tion with the course, the six sessions of w
are held in morning periods. These de
strations, which are given largely as par
include material and suggestions for hom
tivity other than formal or informal pa
such as mixers with or without music, or
active, quiet and table games, stunts, si
dramatics, storytelling, singing games, ga
music story plays, hobbies and magic. HiL
backyard play, home play equipment, -
modeling, social recreation, and Dad and
Boy are among the subjects considered.

Louisville’s Spring Fete—A spring fete .
cluded the winter program in dancing cla
conducted by the Division of Recreatio
Louisville, Kentucky. About 350 childre
all ages, from three to eighteen, were enr
in these classes which met in a shelter h
at Shawnee Park which hitherto had little
except as a dressing room for baseball pla-
Part I of the program consisted of a mi
and dances of the months—New Year D
(January) ; Flirting with the Valentine ( '
ruary) ; Irish Lassies (March) ; \Vater Sp
(April) ; Easter Bunnies (May) ; \Vooden ‘
diers and China Dolls (June); Uncle ‘
Drill (July); Girls at Play (August); Sc
Days (September); Dance of the Pum
(October) ; Greeting of the Pilgrims (Nox
ber); Jingle Bells (December). In Pa
came a number of special dances which
been taught during the winter.

1

Community Nights in Austin—There
wide variety offered in weekly comm
night programs held on the playground
Austin, Texas. Among the activities are
geants, square dances, stunt programs, w
melon feeds, basket suppers, roller ska
meets and one act plays.

. Angeles County to Have Four New
.—The Los Angeles, California. County
(1 of Supervisors, through four county de-
ients —— Surveyors, Regional Planning,
try and Recreation—is launching a plan
. « public park program of enduring beauty
e county and of benefit to the unem-
d. The projects include Alondra Park
0 acres, Pacoima Park, 190 acres in extent,
, ra Park of 14 acres, which will have an
or theatre, and City Terrace consisting
4 acres. The program will not require
ue from any additional taxation but is
ced by a part of available funds for un-
loyment. The parks are planned with a
to their most effective scenic value, but
ecreational opportunities are overlooked.

 
 
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
 
    
  
   
  
   
   
  

enile Delinquency and Boys’ Clubs.—
y in 1930 a boys’ club was organized in
ter, Pennsylvania. A superintendent was
ed and in May the club was opened in
- rooms on the second floor of a building.
ovember larger quarters became neces-
, and several rooms were added. There
ew several hundred boys on the member-
list. “During the'year 1929,” states the
annual report of the Probation Depart-
, Delaware County, Pennsylvania, “thir-
e: cases of delinquency were reported from
ection in which the boys’ club is located,
ince giving the boys various activities to
py their spare time but one case has been
ght to the attention of the court.”

Home Play Game Course—The course
ome Games for Parents was the joint pro-
of the Park and Playground Association
t. Louis and the Department of Zoology
t. Louis University. One hundred and
y parents attended the courses held on the
ings of April 4th, 11th, 18th and 25th. So
lar did the meetings prove that another
5 of courses will be given in the fall. The
e was instituted primarily to interest par-
in the coming Backyard Playground Con-
which last year was so productive for
' out of employment that it was felt im-
nt to pave the way for a more extensive
t this year.

ic in York—Citizens of York, Pennsyl-
, enjoyed a well arranged Music Week
am fostered by the Department of Rec-
on. All concerts were free to the public.

WORLD AT PLAY 353

CHECK your
PLAYGROUND
E Q U | PM E N T

Parks and Playgrounds have been
patronized and utilized more this
year than probably ever before.
Why? Because people have taken
their families to parks rather than
expensive resorts and shows. This
has meant heavy wear and tear on
playground equipment. Most park
boards and schools have appreciated
this situation and have provided
adequate facilities for the children's

play.

Now is the time to check your
equipment. Some of it may need
repair—some replacement—or ad-
ditional devices may be needed.

Permit our engineering department
to assist you in your plans. Send

for our catalog and see the new de-
pendable. durable. and safe play—
ground equipment we offer.

 

American Playground Device 00.
ANDERSON. INDIANA

The program was as follows: May lst, a band
concert by the city band; May 2nd, a program
of Negro music by the Pennsylvania Hotel
quartet and Smallwood school children. On
May 3rd, a piano recital by twenty-four mem-
bers of the Matinee Musical Club playing at
eight pianos; on May 4th, an organ recital at
the First Presbyterian Church; on May 5th,
a program by Juvenile. McDowell and Pi-Mu
Music Club ; May 6th, a program by the Senior
High School. On the same date, a pageant,
“America's \Velcome,” gave an opportunity
for the presentation of folk songs and dances
by children from other countries. May 7th was
devoted to an international music program.
The program closed on May 8th with a concert
given by the Spring Garden Band.

A New Civic Arts Association—Tacoma,
\Vashington, has a Civic Arts Association
sponsored by the Recreation Department and
the Metropolitan Park Department. It is di-
vided into live groups—dramatics, the,dance,
music. arts and crafts, and oratory and debate.
On May 315t the association presented its first
public offering, a dance festival.

554 WORLD AT PLAY

#

The most up-to—date and authoritative
information on the subject

THE CHILD AND PLAY

By
JAMES EDWARD ROGERS

DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL PHYSICAL EDUCATION
SERVICE OF THE NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

RECOMMENDED BY:

Hon. Ray Lyman Wilbur: “I like it very
much. It is both stimulating and practical.”

Dr. Smiley Blanton, author of "Child Guid-
ance”: "An excellent book."

Hygeia: "Deserves careful reading."
George 0. Drayer, Y.M.C.A. College: “Will

be welcomed by all who are interested in the
play of children.”

Boston Eve. Transcript: “A surprisingly
complete picture of play facilities and pos-

sibilities.”
Lee F. Hanmer, of the Russell Sage Founda-
tion: "A splendid publication. . . attrac-

tive. readable, and helpful."
New York Times: “Very helpful."

8vo. 205 pp. Price, $2.00 Illustrated

THE CENTURY CO.
353 FOURTH AVE, NEW YORK, N. Y.

In Commemoration

Of Armistice Day

OR GROUPS planning to cele-
brate Armistice Day the
Community Drama Service of
the National Recreation Asso-
ciation offers a short peace
pageant with production notes.

Schools and community grOUps
of all kinds will welcome these
suggestions.

National Recreation Association
315 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

PRICE $.15

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
  

The Greater Pennsylvania Council.—
Pennsylvania legislature has passed a bill
ating a Greater Pennsylvania Council for
promotion of the economic, social, indust
agricultural, educational, civic and recreati
welfare of the Commonwealth of Pennsylv
and its citizens. The Council consists of
members appointed by the Governor who ~
without compensation. It is the responsib
of the Council to make such studies as ma
desirable in collaboration with existing or
izations. The sum of $225,000 has been ap
priated for the expenses involved. Dr. R
D. Hetzel, President of State College, is C
man of the Council; Dr. Charles Reite

Director.

Community Centers in Lansing—The
partment of Public Recreation in Lan
Michigan, is operating ten school center
contrasted with two in existence three
ago. Attractive folders entitled “After W
ing Hours, Where Play?” have been iss
These describe the facilities and activ
available and extend a hearty invitatio
“play with us.” The folders were given
distribution in the industries of the city w
they were eagerly received.

Publicity for Wilmette’s Playground
Each week the Wilmette Life of Wilmette,
inois, allots to the Playground and Recrea
Board a full page or more for any publi
the Board wishes to bring before the pu
In addition to the recreation page, another
page is given over each week to the J
Press, a paper prepared by public school i
dren under the sponsorship of the Board.

A Trip Around the World with Starn
The Stamp Club conducted by the Departn
of Playground and Recreation of Los Ang
California, is carrying on a new activity kn
as “A Trip Around the World with Stam
Each week certain countries are the sub
of the club’s activities, and the member ha
the most stamps of the country under dis
sion has an opportunity to answer quest'
concerning the country. If he answers all
questions asked he receives five points. I
fails to know the correct answer, the me
next in line is given an opportunity. At
end of the trip the individual with the big
score will receive a package of stamps.

A CENTER THAT KNOWS NO DEPRESSION

'Clubs at Police Stations.—“VVe erect the
llows at the end of the lane instead of a sign-
ard at the start,” said Warden Lawes of Sing
ng in advocating the establishment of boys’
(1 girls’ clubs at police stations or public

hools as part of a crime prevention program.
his opinion the present lawlessness could be

aterially lessened if such clubs were provided
r boys and girls who because of poverty are
rred from organizations where dues are

arged.

Center That Knows No Depression
(Continued from page 321)

ows. Such vehicles as “Ali Baba and the
orty Thieves,” “Master Skylark,” and “Alad-
n and His \Vonderful Lamp” are favorites
ith the youngsters.
A great financial saving is effected by pro-
Icing the same play at each held house. In
is way the same costumes and stage props
e used at each performance, with minor
anges to ht local stage conditions. The re-
It is that finer costumes are provided at less
t. Through diligent saving of these, the
epartment now has 400 costumes stored
ay ready for instant use or alteration for
y held house dramatic venture. Costume
aterials, stage props and curtain fabrics are
lrchased in large lots from retiring stock
mpanies and theatres and then converted
0 use. The low initial expense, coupled
ith the fact that the articles are used many
es, reduces the cost of staging these shows
a rock bottom level without reducing the
uality of the stage facilities. The Department
intains a warehouse—an abandoned fire
ation—-where all this material is stored.
hese accessories are also used by the senior
.matic clubs which produce one-act plays
the held houses through the winter season.
An orchestra is maintained at each center to
company plays, dance dramas and similar
ents and also to give public concerts in the
ilding. Green Lake’s orchestra includes
nty-two members, all of whom donate
ir services in exchange for the use of the
ilcling as their headquarters.

I Athletics Popular

* any children and adults take part in the
(1 house basketball teams. Eight boys'
. ms and four men’s teams represent each

   
    
 
   

ET safety be your first re-

- quirement when selecting

playground equipment. Then
sturdiness. entertainment

value and reasonable price.

You'll find them all. in extra
measure. in the very complete
Louden line. All of the old
favorites. plus several real
thrillers that are exclusively

Louden.
If you have a play-
ground problem. let

our experts help you
solve it—without ob-

ligation. W r i t e as

about it today.

Before buying a n y
equipment send for
complete catalog and
new low prices on

LOUDEN

Playground Equipment
Manufactured by

J. E. PORTER CORP.
Ottawa, III.

JOURNAL

PHYSICAL EDUCATION

PRACTICAL and SCIENTIFIC

Series of Articles
on

VOLLEY BALL and HANDBALL

347 MADISON AVENUE

TECHNIQUES
Began in September

—¢-
Send for Sample Copy

._¢_

Published by

PHYSICAL DIRECTORs’ SOCIETY
of Y.M.C.A.’s of North America

NEW YORK

JOHN BROWN, JR., M.D.. M.P.E., Editor

Price $3.00

Overseas and Canada $3.25
Single Copies 35c.

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
    
   
 
 
 
  

356 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

l Recently Received Containing Articles 2
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

The Totem Board, August 1932.
The Making of Hooked Rugs, by Elisabeth E.

Bowen.
Log Rolling, by Bernard S. Mason.

Parks and Recreation, August 1932. .
Park Subjects to Be Dominant at Washington Con-

ference.
The New Playfield at Neenah. Wis.

Our National Parks—Keynotes of the New Day-! by
Margaret March-Mount.

A Hundred Million Dollars Worth of Parks Donated.

Notes on Track and Field Facilities, by V. K. Brown.

Recreation Service in Los Angeles County Recreation
Area, by Virgil Dahl.

Childhood Education, May 1932.
Let’s Play It, by Margaret Garrett Bice.

The Grade Teacher, September 1932.
Music Education and the Harmonica, by C. I. Val-
entine.

Popular Home Craft, September-October 1932.

Jig Saw Puzzles—How to Make Them, by T. K.
Webster.

Forging and Working with Wrought Iron, by J. W.
Bollinger.

The Journal of Physical Education, September 1932.
The Fundamental Techniques of Handball, by Mel-
vin A. Clevett.
Testing Progress in Volley Ball, by Melvin A. Cle-
vett and Robert A. Laveaga.

The Objective of the Olympic Games, by Count
Baillet-Latour.

Camp Life, June-July 1932.

Circus Guilds, by Clarence Arthur Perry.
H ygeia, August 1932.

Swimmers’ Safety Pledge.

Olympic Village.
The Red Cross Courier, September 1932.

The Old Swimming Hole and the New, by Natalie
Reichart.

The Survey Graphic, September 1932.
This Club is Okay.

Child Welfare. September 1932.

A Taste for Music through Musical T0ys, by Rose
Ella Cunningham. -

PAMPH LETS

Report of_ Melvin Jones, Secretary-Treasurer of Lions
International.

Tampa Board of Public Recreation Report, 1931-32.
Boy Cathedral Builders Guide.

Educational Opportunities of Greater Boston.

Compiled by the Prospect Union Educational Ex-
change.

National Playing Fields Association Annual Report,
1931-32.

National Playing Fields Association, 71 Eccleston
Square. London, SW. 1.
State Legislation Relating to Kindergartens in Effect 1931.
By Mary Dabney Davis and Ward W. Keesecker,
Pamphlet No. 30, Office of Education, Washington,
D. C., $.05.
Some Timely Recreation Problems and Opportunities in
the New York Region.
Information Bulletin No. 8—Regiona1 Plan Associa-
tion, Inc., 400 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Art Workshop Program, 1932-1933.
14 East 37th Street, New York City.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
  
  

center in the annual Inter-Field House Leag
with a total of 1,200 or more' participati
Silver trophy cups are awarded to the leag
winning teams to rest in their trophy case
a year or to become the permanent possessi
of a field house if won three times. The win
of the men’s Class “A” League represents
held houses in the annual inter—league play
for the amateur championship of the ci
Women and girls also participate in bask
ball, but competition is not stressed and th
do not play in organized leagues. All ot ‘
indoor sports are run on the same basis
basketball, with inter—field house competiti
for boys and men, and intra-mural play
girls and women.

The aim of the Park Board is to make I
field house a family recreation center as w
as a civic gathering place. Activities are a
signed to provide every member of a fam
with his or her favorite sport or hobby, wh
all civic groups are urged to make full use
the club rooms and auditorium. Each h
house is the hub of civic, social and recr
tional activities of the community it serv

Memories That Will Live

(Continued from page 329)

immense Fleishhacker swimming pool. The int
est and inspiration aroused by all of these

perhaps be imagined by the reader. Most me
orable of all was the barbecue in old Spani
style that was given to us by Mrs. Sigmund Ste
Chairman of the San Francisco Recreation C0
mission, in the Sigmund Stern Recreation Gro
This was the kind of event that we dream ab
after reading of the lavish feasts and love

color of the Spanish. The Grove itself is exce
ingly beautiful with its many eucalyptus tr
rising beneficiently from the hills surroundi
the pleasant valley in which we dined. After r
luncheon we were held in the delightful Span
atmosphere, or steeped more fully in it, by a ki
of pageant, all too brief, in which there was
most graceful though simple dancing imagina
Young people from the playgrounds of the i
were the dancers in lovely Spanish costu
There was also an Indian dance given by a
Indian father and his two little sons accompa
by the drum-beats and singing of the father, .
there was very good singing of Spanish and I
ian songs by the playground boys and girls.
chorus of Italian boys of high school age

   
   

.der was especially fine and hearty. After seeing
(1 hearing these dancers and singers it was
.. range, in being introduced to some of them
ater, to hear Irish, German, Russian and Italian
’mes as well as Spanish and what are called

merican ones—it was strange and also happily
vealing of the universality of a folk expression.

' The climax of our afternoon tour came in our
'sit to the Balboa School with Superintendent
inn as our guide. The beauty of this school’s
ildings and interiors and the excellence of its
- , mnasiums, music room and other provisions for
isure-time living were an inspiring revelation
- us.

  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
      
   
     
   
     
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
    

Most of us stayed in San Francisco through the

ollowing night—a short night it was after a
scinating tour of Chinatown—and by the next
ening we were all in Los Angeles.
Now that we have arrived at the beginning of
is article, we will end it; but not without glow-
g again over the generosity and excellence of
-- hospitality that we received at the hands of
r California hosts.

When looking back over the week of the Con-
ess and the golden days that preceded it one
nders how many such weeks could be regarded
' . an ample life-time. Not many; five or six of
em, even less than that, would contain more
. tal and full living than many a man or woman
s in three-score years and ten. But it is per-
ps a wiser and liner thought that Mr. Arvold
(l as we sat together listening to a great orches-
: in that beautiful and acoustically marvelous
ollywood Bowl. “What a boon life is,” he said.

t’s too bad we can’t live two or three hundred
ars.” '

The Joys of the Roads

(Continued from page 341)

ndance was 6,339, the average attendance
eing 56. Twenty-nine other events were
heduled during the year, including dances,
mping trips, and house parties. The largest
tendance on one hike was 175, and the long-
t scheduled hike was 28 miles.

In an attractively illustrated pamphlet called
'ootprints of 1931” the Minneapolis Munici-
, 1 Hiking Club, sponsored by the Recreation
I partment of the Board of Park Commis-
- oners, tells of the club’s activities for the
. ar, the by-laws, members, and something of
t e club’s history.

 

ELLEN SCRIPPS 357

 

On August 3, 1932 Ellen Browning Scripps
died at the age of ninety-live. Since 1917 Miss
Scripps had been a member of the Board of Di-
rectors of the National Recreation Association
and for many years was actively interested in
both the local and the national recreation move-
ment. On the recent visit of Dr. and Mrs. Jacks
they were her guests in La Jolla. She herself
gave a very beautiful community center and play-
ground in La Jolla, California. She also con-
verted the farm at Rushville, Illinois, where she
lived in her early days, into the Scripps Park and
erected a community house on the site of her
former farm home. She took deep personal in-
terest in the Rushville center following very care-
fully and in detail all the developments which
took place. She provided a lodge and caretaker
for the Torrey Pines Park and devised her land
holdings of several hundred acres to the city of

San' Diego as an addition to that park. Miss
Scripps in her own hand would write to the of-
fice of the National Association telling of her in-
terest in what was being done. Perhaps because
of her own experience as a school teacher Miss
Scripps was always deeply interested in educa-
tion. She founded the Bishops School for Girls
at La Jolla and Scripps College for \Vomen at
Claremont, California. The Scripps Institution
of Oceanography was built jointly by Ellen
Scripps and E. W. Scripps, her brother, and is
operated by the University of California. Miss
Scripps also gave the Scripps Metabolic Clinic in
La Jolla. She was the chief contributor to the
Natural History Society and its new fireproof
museum building and to the Zoological Gardens
of San Diego.

358

 

and advice on problems concerning rules

MANY inquiries come in for interpretation

of games and athletics. These are often of

general interest and value. RECREATION plans to
conduct a column of such inquiries and answers.
Send in your problems of interpretation of rules;
protests on decisions; inquiries on organization of
leagues and tournaments. Those having general
interest will be used in this column. All inquiries
will receive a direct reply if a self-addressed

stamped envelope is enclosed.

1

Q. Two men are out and the bases are
loaded. The batter hits a bullet-like ball
down third base line striking the base—run-
ner on the foot while he is standing squarely
on top of the third sack. The ball bounds
out in fair territory between second and third
bases. Four runs come in while the opposite
side rushed in to argue that the man stand-
ing on third base is out. I might add here
that our local rules provide that a base-run—
ner cannot leave his base until the ball has
been hit. Please rule on this as to whether
the man is safe or out, and. if safe. is the ball
declared in play and do the runs count.

A. Base-runner is out, ball is dead, batter is
credited with a single and the runners on
first and second each advance one base, being
forced ahead by the batter’s going to first.

2. Q. Runners on first and third. Pitcher de-

livers ball to batter. and ball is returned by
catcher to pitcher standing outside his box.
Runner on hrst meanwhile starts to steal sec-
ond (after ball passes plate) , and the pitcher
throws to second. failing to get runner steal.-
ing. The runner on third scored. Does the
run count?

A. Yes.

3.  With a base runner on second base, the

batter got a hit to short center field. The
base runner on second ran to third on the
hit. On the play the pitcher ran over to third
to either back up the third baseman or com-
plete the play himself. The base runner slid
into third base safely. The third baseman
who received the throw from center field
tossed the ball back to the pitcher as the
pitcher was walking back to the mound
(pitcher was not on mound) and the runner
on third ran home to score. The umpire sent
the runner back to third base stating that the

OUR DECISION IS

  
  

 
  
  
      
    
   
     
   
   
 
 

Congress Proceedings

HE INTERNATIONAL RECREATION CONGRES
brought together representatives of many coun
tries. What these delegates had to say about recre
ation in their countries and the discussions 0
problems which took place at the Los Angele
meeting are exceedingly significant.

  
   
 
 
 

  

@‘ You will be able to secure in a few weeks a cop
of the volume in which the proceedings of th
Congress will_appear. Send your order now.

National Recreation Association

315 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

Price $1.50

   
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
   
    
 
   
    
   

play had been completed. The batting '
contended that the play was not comple
until the pitcher was on the mound with
ball. Should the runner have been allo
to score?

A. The play was completed when the r
ner slid into third base and the pit
started to walk back to the mound. The
tention of the rule is that the runner
third shall not steal home and this is
what this particular runner is doing.

4. Q. A man running from second to t

base was tagged by the third baseman
the back of his hand that held the ball.

the runner out?
A. The runner is out.

5.  Can a base-runner advance if the bal
thrown back to the pitcher by the catche
the pitcher makes an attempt to catch it.
it hits his hand and then bounds to ano
player or to the outfielder’s hands?

A. Yes, the base-runner can advance,

cept that he cannot score from third on s
a throwback.

6. Q. Must a base—runner, in running to f1

run three-foot line on last half as in b
ball?

A. The runner may run out of the base
as far as he chooses as long as he does no
so in order to avoid being tagged. So I
as a play is not being made on him, you
not worry if he takes the longer circle
to first base. If a play is being made on
at any part of the base line, he must
within the base line limits.

New Books on Recreation

Immigrant Gifts to American Life

Allen H. Eaton. Russell Sage Foundation, New
k, $3.00.

’BOOK dedicated to beauty is this volume in which Mr.
Eaton with rare artistry has recorded some experi-
ts in appreciation of the contributions of our foreign

n citizens to America's culture. He has described the

ibition of the Arts and Crafts of the Homelands at

ffalo, the Cleveland Exhibition of Handicrafts and a

ber of other notable exhibits and festivals in which

contribution of the foreign born to America has been
tured. He has gone further and has interpreted for
these exhibits and events, telling us something of their
nilicance and the results secured. He has also sug-
ted ways of organizing and conducting an exhibition
arts and crafts and has pointed out resources .for fu-

e exhibits. The spirit of the book is to be found in
concluding paragraph.

It is not the thing which is done that makes a work

rt, it is the manner of doing it. These exhibitions of

. gs made by unschooled but sensitive people who knew
the rules of composition and color but who felt

ngly the impulse to create beautiful objects and re-

nded to that impulse, will not only help us to appre-

e more fully the folk culture of the many homelands

which America is made up, but they will give us a

'on of what we may reasonably hope to see in a renais-

cc of all the arts in our country. Perhaps the greatest

H g, however, they will do is to help us to understand

art in its true sense, whether it be folk or fine, is the

pression of joy in work.”

  
 
  
  
 
   

  
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

.Out of Doors~A Guide to Nature

Paul B. Mann and George T. Hastings. Henry Holt
Company, New York. $2.00.

031' biology books of the past have been the sit-and-
learn variety. Here is a book that meets the urge
o—and-do. And in the end knowledge will not suffer.
act, I strongly suspect that the book will radiate last-
enthusiasm to the young naturalists who are fortunate
ugh to have this guide to'nature. I have known the
ors in the field for a long time. They have had prac-
1 experience and have been eminently successful in the
rpretation of the out of doors to young folks. I am
a that they have made their interpretations available
11 young people, of whatever age, whether it be ten
: hundred. I have placed a copy of the book in the
ry of the log cabin where our Junior Nature Guides
pioneering. The abundant illustrations have already
_ tured them. I have my ear to the ground to hear their
ments. Youngsters are plain spoken. I expect to
great compliments—the kind that only youngsters
flash—WILLIAM GOULD VINAL, Director of the Na-
: Guide School, Western Reserve University.

 

The Eloquent Baton

By \Vill Earhart. M. \Vitmark and Sons, New York.
$1.50.

ms is a most valuable single book on the conducting

of music. Like every other book on conducting it
contains diagrams of the motions used for the different
types of musical measure, but even in these diagrams it
reveals subtleties that are very often lacking in conduct-
ing. T‘hese more subtle elements of musical leadership,
which have to do not only 'with differences in volume,
intensity and tempo, but also with meaningful phrasing,
are very effectively dealt with in the text of the book.
The many musical examples given are with two excep-
tions drawn from choral, orchestral and operatic works,
so that the book is fully worth being read by any con-
ductor who is at all capable of growth; but it can also be
read with great profit by song leaders. After all, the
subtleties ‘referred to are not only intellectual; they have
mainly to do with feeling, with insight into the music as
music, and with pleasure in it. And these are precisely
what are needed to make community singing, even of a
simple song, as enjoyable as it can be.——AUGUS'rUS D.
ZANZIG.

Handy I I

Edited by Katherine and Lynn Rohrbough. Church
Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio $2.50.

NE of the novel features of this, the latest edition of

the widely known and used Handy, published since
1924, is a section on puzzles which will be welcomed by
recreation workers for their quiet games room and for
use in home play prOgrams. In addition to puzzles,
Handy 11 contains countless valuable suggestions for the
social recreation program.

Play Behavior and Choice of Play
Materials of Pre-School Children

By Dorothy Van Alstyne, Ph.D. The University of Chi-
cago Press, Chicago, Illinois. $1.50.

R. VAN ALSTYNE reports here the result of a study

made for the Behavior Research Fund in cooperation
with the Garden Apartments Nursery Schools and the
\Vinnetka and Franklin Public School Nurseries. The
study concentrates upon one age period—pre-school chil-
dren from two to five years, and focuses on two aspects
of play—the choice and use of play materials. It is based
not on random reports of children’s behavior but upon
carefully recorded observations of their behavior within
definite time units under the controlled conditions of the
nursery school. The findings of the study have much of
practical value for recreation workers, teachers and

parents.

359

360 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Research and Education in the National Parks.
By Harold C. Bryant and Wallace W. Atwood, Jr.,

Government Printing Office, Washington.

The educational program in the national parks admin-
istered by the National Park Service of the Department
of the Interior and the history of the educational move-
ment are outlined in this pamphlet which tells a fascin-
ating story of the opportunities for education available
in the national parks through guided trips, nature and
historic trails, exhibits, wild-dower and wild-life dis-
plays, lectures, camp-hre talks, museums, libraries and
classes. For the student of outdoor life this pamphlet
has a wealth of information.

101 Ways to Entertain Your Child.

By Jane Parker. Noble and Noble, New York. $2.00.

“A Book for Every Home with Children” might well
be the title of this attractive volume. What mother has
not faced the problem of keeping her child busy when
he is recovering from an illness or is separated from his
playmates? This book is the answer to her problem. It
is written for children and they will enjoy reading it as
well as acting upon the attractive suggestions for things
to do which “Aunt Jeppy” has to offer.

Vaulting.

By Thomas McDowell. Oxford University Press,
New York. $.75.

In this book Mr. McDowell has brought together a
collection of horse vaults suitable for school children and
leading up to the feats of the skilled gymnast, necessi-
tating the minimum of apparatus. There is a brief dis-
cussion of each vault with many sketches and illustra—
tions which may be understood at a glance. More than
one hundred and fifty vaults are presented.

The Blue Book of Sports.

John Macbeth, 2062 West 69th Street, New York
City.

The “Who’s Who” in sport, the Blue Book contains
photographs, biographies, editorials, stories and records
of internationally prominent events, clubs, colleges, ath-
letic teams and individuals.

Growth and Development of the “Child—Part IV
Appraisement of the Child.

The Century Company, New York. $2.75.

This important study of the evaluation of the indi-
vidual child is one part of the four volume report of the
Committee on Growth and DevelOpment of the White
House Conference on Child Health and Protection. It
deals with the mental and physical status of the child,
and in it are assembled standards for the measurement
and appraisement of children’s status and information
which casts much light on such questions as the nature
of genius, special gifts and mental inferiority.

Fundamentals in Physical Education.

glynsRuth B. Glassow. Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia.

Here is a text book for college freshmen and high
school girls which is designed to answer the problem
confronting every instructor of physical education—what
to teach and how to teach it. The book offers material
for a required course in physical education for high
school girls and freshmen and presents the knowledge
of fundamentals and of certain skills which every student
should possess. The_re are three sections—I: Speed,
Strength and Direction in Movement; II: Timing and
Rhythm in Movement, and III: Care and Use of the
Body. Tables for scoring health are presented.

 
  
   
 
    
    
  
   
    
   
  
 
  
   
    
    

The Regional Plan or the Philadelphia Tri-
District.

Compiled by Sub—Committees of the Technica
visory Committee and Staff of the Regional Pl
Federation. Regional Planning Federation -
Philadelphia Tri-State District, Philadelphia,
sylvania.

The. Regional Planning Federation of the Phila
Tri-State District is to be congratulated upon the
of this forward looking plan reported in a bea
illustrated volume of almost six hundred pages:
attention is given in the report to the develop
recreational facilities and liberal standards are su
for the amount of space to be set aside for play
The plan presented is the joint product of two h
technicians who worked with planning consultan
with private citizens and governmental oflicials. I
cipates the requirements for a substantial increase i
ulation over a fifty—year period. The area affecte
prises 4,555 square miles and stretches roughly
forty miles from the central business section of P
phia into the States of Pennsylvania, New Jers
Delaware. There is a wealtli of information in t
mira-ble volume.

Occupational Interests and Personality Requir
of Women in Business and the Professions.

Grace E. Manson. Bureau of Business Re
School of Business Administration, Univers

Michigan, Ann Arbor. $1.00.

The interests and opinions of nearly 14,000 ..
and professional women have been analyzed in thi
whose objective has hoen to make a contribution
ganized data from which general principles may be
regarding the preferences and opinions characteri
business women as a whole and regarding the var
in attitude which exist between women in different
pations. It is a careful and thorough study cont
much of interest.

Ofiicers and Directors of the Natio

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEv, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. COREETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUEEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
WILLIAM HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.

J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Washington, D. C.
FREDERch S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, JR., Washington, D.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

MRS. WILLIAM H. WOODIN, JR., Plainfield, N. J.

