   

National College of
creotional Culture

VERY nation ought to have its own national college of
E recreational culture where the method of uniting recrea~
tion with education can be studied and applied in all its
bearings and where young men and women of good ability and
wholesome ideals can be trained in hundreds to go forth as
recreational leaders, one of the hnest professions I know of,
into every school, college and civic community in the land. I
congratulate you on having already the nucleus of such a col-
lege here in New York and I venture to think that the develop-
ment of that college is one of the most important tasks awaiting
your Association. Such a college is needed as a center for think-
ing and in order to give unity, signihcance and driving power
to the new education which the changing conditions of the time
require. I would not assign the function to existing universi-
ties because their function is different and also because they are
already overloaded. I commend the idea to those of you who
are interested in such things.

L. P. JACKS, LL.D.

From an informal address to the Board

of Directors of the National Recreation
Association, May 25, 1932.

July, 1932

10‘)

Summer Lore!

Courtesy C amp Life

   

And now comes the time of the year when the lure will call. But For many |nothing will have a gr
olthe water is strongest! Swimming, bathing, thelozy appeal than Fishing. 50 try your luck! You will 

course ol: the canoe through the watef all of these your reward though you come away empty-han “

170

Leisure and National Security

  
   
 

3 1
ye are entering a new world. In the days

? r. Failure to prepare for these con-

i .

Ions as in the past will bring disaster.’

come there will be more leisure than

  

I

By WILLIAM F. RUSSELL, Ph. D.

Dean of Teachers College
Columbia University, New York City

  
   
 
   
   
   
  
     

‘ was during the last year of the War that I
was crossing the Pacific. The old Empress of
Japan, a very small steamer by current stand-
, was crowded with returning residents of the
East—missionaries, business men, teachers,
a had been held on the coast by the diversion
ipping to carry troops, munitions, and food
the North Atlantic. To this already over-
' d vessel had been added a small party of
per men, motion picture operators, and
' ity agents, who, as representatives of the
ittee on Public Information, were voyag-
o sell America to the world. The Captain, in
h of entertainment and talent for the in—
. e ship’s concert for the benefit of the wid—
and orphans of those who sail the seas, fail-
‘. o find vaudeville actresses or opera stars, hit
, r the motion picture operators, and learned
i. them that they would gladly assemble a
" ctor and give a show, provided that the ma-
*: 15 could be brought forth from the hold and
1’ films taken from the fireproof vault. To this
,‘ sal there was joyous agreement, and the
in ordered one of the forward holds to be

I- " and the boxes hoisted out.

at
;.

1'

l
'I
l

‘ _
l
l

    
  
    

I
I
l

    
    
    
 
  

Dr. Russell's address was delivered at
the meeting of the Department of Super-
intendence, National Education Associa-
tion, held at Washington last February.

 

It was fortunate that the sea was calm, the
weather fair and the glass high, for all day long
from early morning until sunset, all through the
night, and all day long the next day, some score
of men toiled in the hold shifting boxes, barrels,
bales, bundles and crates; all day long and all
night engineers rattled the donkey engines, hoist-
ing freight. The forward deck was piled high.
Everythng was turned over and examined, until,
away down deep, almost upon the keel, was dis-
covered the boxed cinematOgraph, triumphantly
to be brought to the regions above. It must have
been loaded with the first freight. Because of
these long hours of toil and struggle, the first
class passengers were regaled with “Brown of
Harvard,” “Scenes in Central Park,” and views
of “Our Feathered Friends"—so much labor for

so little.
171

172 LEISURE AND NATIONAL SECURITY

I asked the Captain if he
thought the game worth the
candle. He replied that it did
not make any difference. One
of his chief jobs was to keep
the crew busy. For emergency
purposes, he said, a full crew
was needed; there was little to
do in good weather at sea, and
they might as well shift cargo
as to paint, scrape and clean. He said that the
danger at sea was as great from an idle crew as
from fog or storm, and that every ship’s captain
in the interest of order was compelled to keep
every man at work all of his waking time. With-
out this there would be disorder and discontent.

It seems to me that society in ages past has fol-
lowed the idea of the captain of the ship. A few
people have been on the top of the pile. The
great mass has had only to honor and to obey.
By crude processes of manufacture (that is mak-
ing by hand) and by ancient and simple modes
of agriculture, man has been able to maintain
himself by the sweat of his brow; and if by this
procedure he has had his family and provided
them with food, clothing and shelter, he has gen-
erally been content. He may labor from dawn
until dark, day after day, year after year. The
yield may be sparse; the rewards slight. But he
is at work, his wife is at work, the children are
at work. There is no mutiny in such a crew.
There is no mischief done by idle hands. The
society that is at work is secure.

Now the ship sometimes comes to port and the
men receive shore leave. Here they blow off their
steam, but not on board. 50 in most societies
there have been periodic cessations from toil.
There is the seventh day of Jews and Christians,
the Market Day in the East, Saturnalia, May
Day, Christmas, New Year’s Day, Easter, the
Emperor’s Birthday. The farmer leaves his
plough, the woodsman abandons his axe, the ar-
tisan dr0ps his tools. All change their normal ac-
tivities. There is a religious ceremony to attend,
a patriotic act to perform, a traditional ceremony
in which to participate, an old time game to play,
an ancient tale to hear. Then the ear gives no
heed to discontent, no attention is paid to con-
spiracy. In a secure society people do not idle.
They are busy, busy at work, busy at play, busy
at initiation ceremonies, busy at war. Idleness
they abhor. Lethargy they abominate.

Let us remember that our new
industrial machine produces two
products--goods and leisure. ll:
consumers, for some reason or
another, do not take the first
product of the machine, they can
use the second. But we shall have
to make it usable. It is our next
big industrial and social problem.

L. C. Walker, Distributed Leisure.

' least worthy of note that all these soldiers’ gran

   
    
 
    
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
     

Now occasionally as we 100
into the past, we find illustra
tions of groups of pe0ple wh
for one reason or another ha
nothing to do. Take the ca
of the victorious army one wee
after its return in triumph fro
a successfully terminated cam
paign. The parade is over. T
captives have been exhibite
the booty displayed. The enemies’ standards ar
in the museum. What are the soldiers to do
Years on the field of war displace a man fro
his normal walk of life. He has lived. He h
seen. He has marched with Alexander. He h
crossed the Rubicon. He has been the sun .
Austerlitz. He has suffered at Valley Forge. H
is the idol of you, the pride of the locality; an
he likes to tell about it. How can he settle dow
to the placid, hum-drum work that he used to do
It is so much more pleasant to sit around t
stove at the store, tell -of the Bloody Angle . O
Gettysburg and meet all the trains. Caesar r i
warded his soldiers by grants of land. So d' '
Napoleon. Washington was very solicitous th I
the heroes of the Revolution, away from ho
for eight long years, should be properly reward
with grants of land in the Ohio Valley. It is .

l
4

l

I

l

. . i
were far away—weeks removed in travel t1

from the centers of government. ,
Transportation is not the only method e '
ployed by societies troubled by the idle. The u
employed mobs that surged in the streets -
Rome were a menace to the security of the Sta
They had to be fed; and they were fed. Th
also had to be occupied; and this is the explan
tion of the coliseums and stadia in which were he
the contests; the races, the massacres, there
divert the idle and unoccupied and hold them
line. I have no doubt, looking at the problem fro
this point of view, that a part of the toleration « i
opium and narcotics, widespread drunkenness a l
gambling, horse races, sweepstakes, and lotteri
is due to the fact that these are all' diversions f r l
the idle. They may be bad, but they are bet

than revolution.

We, in the United States, are at the mome
in the midst of one of the times of economic d
pression which periodically seems to attack t
type of society in which we live. Just as in 18
or again in 1857 or in 1873 or in 1892, factori % .

I

 

LEISURE AND NATIONAL SECURITY 173

' are standing idle; thousands, yes millions, of men
and women are out of work; bread lines are long
end tales of distress and instances of hardship
ere on every hand. No one can tell how long this
condition will last. All may improve in the near
future; we may expect before many years have

assed that the depression will be over, that fac-
fories once again will open, that workers will be
in demand, that the market will. recover, that
wages will rise, and that prosperity, fact or myth,
’5 Stuart Chase puts it, will be amongst us again.
perity returns, unemployment will still be with

s. I realize that I tread upon dangerous ground.
5 know that I am no scholar in the field of econ-
mics. Nevertheless there are many straws that

oint the way toward which the economic wind
lows.

l

  
  
 
 
  

But I venture to predict that, even when pros-

. It is apparent that we are entering upon a new
l ind of life, here in the United States, as well as
the rest of the world. In the opening chapter
Recent Economic Changes, the report of the
oover Commission, Professor Gay of Harvard
Irites:

‘ “The present situation of the United States,
markable as it appears to the inquiring stranger,
; . y be regarded in future times as but one inter-
‘ ing stage in a lengthening series of somewhat

ilar episodes character—
'ng the history of this and
her modern nations. The
dustrial Revolution, of
r ‘ ich this stage is a part,
‘ as not merely a sudden
rst of industrial and
mmercial activity, occur—

   
   
  
 
  
     
 
   
   
  
  
    

_ in England just before
threshhold of the nine-
nth century, and spread—
; by transmission or dif-
ion at successive inter-
s to other countries. . . .
was rather a new organic
wth, utilizing new powers over nature, and
l. anding over the world with an uneven but
I. tinuing acceleration. The successive

i’r . s of its development we have only begun to
lyze."

    
      
   
 
    
   

4’

P. lacks.

 
     
    
 
 
    
   

' The Industrial Revolution is not a movement

is spent. The change from "that primitive.
itarian, individualistic democracy produced
the log cabin, free land and isolation,” began

It would be utterly Futile to give any person
detailed instruction as to how he should
spend the particular portion oF leisure he
happens to have. It would cease to be lei-
sure iF he had to use it according to rule.
All you can do by way oF educating him
For leisure is to make him Familiar with the
* Field where the Finer opportunities exist-
I the Field oF skill in games, and still more
in art and craFt--and then troin him as an
all-round man, a good iudge oF values,
capable oF making his own choice and de-
veloping his own technique.—-Dr. Lawrence

late in the eighteenth century, has steadily pro-
gressed since that time, and in the period since
the World War has modified our society with in-
creasing and heightened results. The full effects
have not yet been reached. Important changes are
still in the making. We are passing one of the
great milestones of history. A society is develop-
ing different from anything that man has ever
seen. We are entering upon a new world.

Mechanical inventions of all types are increas-
ing by leaps and bounds. Improved processes of
manufacture are constantly being discovered.
From a study of conditions of the past, as they
have developed up to the present, we can at least
make the following deductions as to trends:

1. We know that technological inventions
have displaced many workers, and it is prob-
able that much unemployment has come as a
result of the machine. Studies have shown that
new inventions cause unbelievable distress; that
people are thrown out of work, and that in most
lines of production each year sees fewer and
fewer hours of labor needed per unit of produc-
tion. It is true that lowered production costs de-
crease the price and increase the demand. It is
also true that increased consumption of goods
brings other jobs in its wake; but certainly
shorter hours and periodic layoffs and, in an im-
perfectly organized society,
much unemployment is due
to increased technological
skill.

2. We know that the
increase of mergers and
the growth of intensive
and quantity production
have also increased unem-
ployment. It is not only
the machine that has dis-
placed the worker. A hun-
ulred small factories scat-
tered all over the country
will employ more hours of
labor per unit of finished product, than will be
the case when these separate enterprises are com-
bined into one huge plant in Bridgeport or De-
troit. This process of concentration in industry
has proceeded apace in the years past, and has
contributed to unemployment.

3. The frontier is closed, and men, displaced
by mergers or machines, no longer can pack up
the covered wagon, take the gun, the axe and the

 

174 LEISURE AND NATIONAL SECURITY

salt, and fare forth to a new start. There is no
place to which to go.

4. The rapid tempo, the high speed, the
quick reaction demanded by the new machine
has put a premium on the younger worker. In
many lines of work, there is no longer need for
extended apprenticeship. One can learn all that
one needs in a short time; and the young, the
quick, the healthy, the strong, they are the ones
in demand. The older worker is being displaced.

5. We are entering a society where men will
be able to support themselves and their fami-
lies, provide food, clothing and shelter, not by
long hours of toil, but by short. From the point
of view of this paper, the problem is the same
whether seventy men work twelve hours a day
seven days a week, 105 work eight hours a day
seven days a week, I47 work eight hours a day
five days a week, or 294 work four hours a day
five days a week. The same amount is accom-
plished. If by quantity production, by technologi-
cal improvements, by scientific management sev-
enty men can now produce as much as 294 once
did, then the four hour day for five days a week
could supplant the old twelve hour day every
day. Fewer people Working shorter time will be
able to provide for our needs. In. a sense, unem-
ployment of this type is really to be classed with
the Sunday rest, the Saturday half-holiday, the
winter lay-off for the painter or the summer’s
idleness for the coal-miner.

With these factors in mind, it is not too much
‘to speculate that we are entering a society in
which in good times, not in depressions, many peo-
ple will be idle. Young people will not be em-
ployed. Old people will be retired. Young peo-
ple from twenty to forty-five, men and Women,
will indulge in brief periods of furious activity
to be followed each day by hours of relaxation
with two or three days off each week. Either
we shall have a situation like this, or else the op-
portunity to work will be as at present unjustly
distributed, or else there will be a deviation from
the tendencies which have operated in the years
just past. \

This means that the machine age will have
brought upon us the condition dreaded not only
by the ship captain, but by all societies in the past.
We cannot deport those who are not at work. We
have no distant frontier to which they can go nor
free land to give to them. We cannot divert their
minds by athletic spectacles. We will not tolerate
opium. We have legislated against alcohol and

. lethargy in mind and body is a fertile field for I

   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
      
  
   
   

lotteries. We have neither a body of ancient cu
toms and games nor any organized set of r
ligious Observances. We do not want war.
the usual social medicines used to operate up
idle crowds are denied to us in the United Stat
Our only hope is education.

We need a new kind of education when we a
small. We schoolmasters should understand t
world into which our pupils are to go, shou
realize that getting a living will occupy not
great a share of time as it once did, and that f
more time will be given to other pursuits. Pe
ple can be lulled to repose by cocktails, or :
motion pictures or by radio or by riding in '
automobile. But it will not last long. Faster .
more furious excitement is demanded as the a
petite becomes jaded. Our children from t
time that they are small must not only come
understand but actually become habituated to t
gateways to true and lasting enjoyment. It is
matter of music and art, of literature and dr
of plays and games, of politics, of supplementa
hobbies and avocations.

And for the adult retraining with these ends
mind is quite as important. For our grown
and women were prepared for a society differe
from that in which we find ourselves today. T
pieces must be picked up. We must lock t
barn door before all of the horses are stolen.

I realize the futility of trying to give educati
for leisure to those who are distressed, miserab
hungry, unhappy. I hold no brief for educati
for leisure to correct such a condition. This
come only when, by wise social direction, we sh
have more perfect equality of vocational opp
tunity. This part of the program tonight ma
no contribution to the means and methods
training for leisure nor to the proper enrichm
of adult life. My thesis is merely this: that
are entering a new world—the world of the
chine age, the beginnings of which are unfoldi
about us; that in the days to come there will
more at rest than at work, and more leisure t
labor; and that failure to prepare for these c
ditions, as in the past, will bring disaster. '

seeds of discontent, disorder and disease. T
education for leisure and the enrichment of ad
life is no slight educational activity; it is
peripheral problem; nor is it an incidental t
It is rather a fundamental problem affecting
welfare of the State, and its perpetuity; and 3:
such should receive major consideration.

Home

 

for Hobbies

 

Frederick R. Rose, Photoyrapher

By ETHEL BOWERS
tional Recreation Association

     
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 

ESTCHESTER! \Ve can’t do the things they
do!” “Look at the money they have
to work with, then look at our budget.”
Ve haven’t the facilities Westchester County

H

;;s. “Give us practical suggestions.” “West-
_; ester County is in a class by itself.”
As I approached the great Westchester
unty Center from the White Plains station,
, seemed to be hearing again these remarks
: many recreation executives in all sections
 the country have made to me.
And so it seemed. The stately County Center
ew even more imposing as I came near; the
tensive parking areas, now almost vaccint,
. inded me of the newspaper accounts I had
d. “Thousands Throng County Center.”
etropolitan Presents Opera to Huge West-
ster Audience” The swift moving, expen-
e cars, flashing silently along the nearby
kway impressed me still further with the
alth and culture of the people of this county
compared to the great masses many recrea-
departments serve. I knew my visit was
g to be an enjoyable experience but I was
doubt as to whether I would carry away
ctical suggestions which other recreation
artments could use. As it developed, my
t was not only very enjoyable and inspira-
al but extremely valuable from the practi-

standpoint.

  
    
 

I. The WorkshOp
‘r- it by bit I learned the details of the Work-

D

Such a workshop as this is the open door to the
satisfaction of the hunger for creative activity.

An experiment being worked out in
Westchester County of signi icance
to the entire recreation movement

shop plan in chatting with Mrs. Chester G.
Marsh, the director, as we explored the facili-
ties of the County Center given over to the
arts and crafts activities.

The Workshop really consists of a lecture
hall on the third floor of the County Center,
an exhibition room which formed the lobby
of the Director’s Office, on the second Hoor,
the great main Workshop in the basement, and
occasional use of the large basement exhibi-
tion hall. In addition there is the Handcraft
Workshop at the Recreation Department head-
quarters, 40 Mamaroneck Avenue, White
Plains, where many of the more detailed
craft activities are taught.

The third floor room is charming, softly
lighted, with a fire-place, attractive modern-
istic furniture, chairs, benches, tables, and the
most intriguing bookcases, what-nots and
shelves. Although, no doubt, the furnishings
of this room were designed by the architect
of the County Center, I have seen club rooms
with similar furniture made by ingenious
people from scrap lumber, store boxes and a
can of paint. A permanent movie screen and
a lantern projector which will show illustra-
tions directly from a book or sheets clipped
below it, without the necessity of slides, are
great assets to the instructors using this room.

175

176 A HOME FOR HOBBIES

This room is used for art appreciation and
history of art lectures, art story hours for
children, photography lectures and laboratory
classes, nature classes, Arts and Crafts Guild
meetings, art and nature exhibits, such as
sculpture, bronzes and tropical fish. An ad—
joining lavatory, without windows, was easily
made into a photographic laboratory dark
room with the addition of a few inexpensive
shelves and a large kitchen sink.

The second floor room is primarily for
painting exhibitions. By means of inexpensive
wall and light treatment it is usable for the
series of transient exhibits which have in-
cluded at different times exhibits of the work
of several Westchester County artists, of met-
ropolitan artists, local collections, such as the
present one of twenty-six paintings by as many
modern American artists, original cartoons
from Judge, and work done in the adult and
children art groups of the Workshop and of
public school art classes.

These exhibits have been sponsored by the
Workshop Director and the recently organized
Westchester Arts and Crafts Guild, of which
she is secretary, “to afford opportunities for
creative work and to further interest in arts
and crafts as recreational, inspirational and
educational activities.” The guild meets twice
a year, has dues of only a dollar, and is open
to anyone in the County interested in arts and
crafts. In addition to sponsoring these small
exhibits it promoted last fall a very successful
Arts and Crafts Exhibition using the large
basement room directly under the main audi-
torium of County’s Center. Instead of the two
hundred articles expected, the committee had
to close the entries when one thousand were
reached. Six hundred and seventy-live paint-
ings, drawings, prints, designs, sculpture,
carvings, ceramics, textiles and miscellaneous
articles of leather, metal, wood and reed were
displayed, all of them original work of resi-
dents or taxpayers of Westchester County. It
is interesting to note that the exhibit commit-
tee achieved professional results by very sim-
ple and inexpensive means. Boards around
pillars were used and wooden steps placed
pyramid fashion which were secured from the
auditorium upstairs. There were potted shrubs,
possibly from the Park Department, and some
easy chairs, no doubt also from the County
Center. With tabourettes and pedestals home-

E

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
    
   

made by a welfare laborer, with a' few 0
pieces of cloth for draperies and table thro '
a printed program carrying advertising, an
full Sunday of work by the committee of t
Guild in arranging the display, the first ann
exhibition of the Westchester Arts and Cra
Guild, which was visited by ten thousa
people, was practically a cost-covering proj
which any metropolitan recreation departm
could conduct.

Imagination and Ingenuity

The exhibition was held in the large ba
ment hall next to the Workshop itself whi
we visited next. Last year this Workshop
an unfinished room, probably like hundr
of other public building basement rooms in
parts of the country, irregular in shape, w
innumerable nooks and crannies, pillars at r
ular intervals, and in this case, without w
dows, a fact which would cause most peo
to ignore it entirely as a possible recreati
facility. However, with forced ventilation a
simple but adequate lighting, we find an .
parently impossible basement room having (
cided assets, fresh air of even temperature, c
in summer, warm in winter, without noi
dust or dirt, and with controlled even lighti
and sufficient room and storage space. ‘
latter has been acquired by most cleve
boarding up some of the many nooks and cr
nies to make closets and cupboards, the p
eled wood work relieving and softening t
brilliant white of the plaster walls and ceili
By using the irregularities to advantage,
has been possible to house all departments
one large room, but separating them so ..
can operate as a unit. The pottery departm
has one end with a cozy alcove for the w
tables, cupboards for pupils’ personal artic
a potter’s wheels in its corner, the kiln .
necessary drying racks in another nook,
unused elevator shaft which is ideal for stor'
wet clay, and several ice chests, one appare
second—hand from a store or a meat mar
another home made, for storing unfinished c
articles which must be kept moist. Not a f
of space is wasted, all elements combining
give the pottery and sculpture enthusiast
roomy, yet cozy work shop where they '
scatter clay everywhere they wish (provi
they leave everything ship-shape at the en
the day).

i

-?

A HOME FOR HOBBIES 177

'Pillars separate the work benches of the
0d carvers and furniture makers from the
s of the weavers, from the easels of the
' ters, and the chairs and drawing tables of
cartoonists. More cupboards and closets
" more cubby holes provide storage space for
~ ious supplies which are sold at cost, and for
?« nished work. When I questioned the cost
'all this equipment, the director pointed out
s lever carpenter, sent and paid by the wel-
” - department, and a janitor-handyman,
wise provided, who were responsible for
. many home made stools,

‘ els, benches and the cup-
rds, which in a previous

' stence were undoubtedly l
' boards, bureaus and wash
nds, vintage of 1898. Who
3 other recreation depart-
ts cannot do as West-
ster County has done?

  
     
  
  
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
 

  

The Atmosphere
- ot only from the director,
 from the staff members,
t-time instructors and the
j ils themsevadid I learn
' y details and side lights
the Workshop program.
the latter I was most for-
ate, for in a borrowed
ck, with clay on my
ds, I spent lazy hours in
Workshop ostensibly
ing a lump of clay into
ething, I know not what,
st a vase, then an ash tray,
next a tile which I finally
ed into a cigarette con-
er) but actually absorb-
“atmosphere.” In my
ck and clay disguise, I
ted with my pottery
hbors and charming in-
ctor, and wandered at will, visiting other

es, chatting with other pupils and
hers.

y first impression was that the Work-
was the kind of a beehive in which
like to be a bee, unlike the noisy,
. ing, pushing, shoving, beehive of our
_' aday world and some other modern recre-
centers. There were industry and action

       
  
  

 

Frederick R. Rose, Photographer

One of the most satisfying devel-
opments in recreation is the in-
creasing emphasis on the arts.

here, but it was the quiet, joyous, creative
activity of like-minded souls. There was noise
here, but it was jolly hammering and sawing
of wood workers, the laughter of the cartoon-
ists, the low murmur of the painters, the clat-
ter of the looms, the whirl of the potter’s
wheel, and the soft “plop,” “plop” of clay being
pounded into shape. Here was none of your
nerve-racking noise, no elevated roar, no sub-
way vibration, no trafhc screeches, no earsplit-
ting telephone jangle or incessant typewriter
hammering; just happy noise which seemed to
be no noise at all, but work-
ers’ peace. So often the indi-
_ ‘ vidual worker, alone in a quiet
; room, is unhappy and de-
i J pressed and cannot do good
it work but the same person in a.
large room, with many others
busy with their own work, will
soon be happily engaged in
his own project stimulated
by the industry of those
around him. So the Work-
shop seemed to be a busy,
happy place, into which a
tired person could sink, for-
getting worries, losing his
former identity, absorbed in
solving new problems, build-
ing another life by entirely
different efforts, among con-
genial new friends, and with
many fascinating avenues of
endeavor beckoning him on.
The director with her conta-
geous enthusiasm and sympa-
thetic approach, the staff
members and part-time work-
ers, the enthusiastic men and
women, boys and girls, all
contributed to the happy, busy
yet restful atmosphere.

Leaders Who Lead

One reason why recreation activities are
often well attended while the same subjects in
school or night school might not be so suc-
cessful was well demonstrated by one of the
Workshop instructors when I jokingly called
for “teacher” to help me with my clay project.
“You know,” she said, as she shaped my cig-
arette container with expert fingers, “one of

182 PLAYGROUNDS OR CULM BANKS?

our own playgrounds because of its basic re-
lationship to program planning. The predom-
inating age has been placed here, there and
everywhere. Now we know where it belongs
in the Wyoming Valley playgrounds. The
following table is quite convincing evidence.

3-6 '7—10 11-13 14-16 Total

Girls . . . . . . . . . 742 1,854 1,342 487 4,425
Boys . . . . . . . . . 546 1,426 1,391 893 4,256
Total . . . . . . . . . 1,288 3,280 2,733 1,380 8,681

Thus it will be seen that the predominating
age group on our playgrounds both for boys
and girls is from seven to ten inclusive and
that almost seventy per cent of all of the chil-
dren are between the ages of seven and thir-
teen years inclusive. Much has been said of
the pre—school child on the playground and yet
with adequate
facilities a n (1
activities pro—
vided for them
we iind t h a t
less than fifteen
percent. of our
total is made
up of children
of th e pre-
school age. It
is interesting to
note that 428
more girls than
boys in the 7-16
age and 406
more boys than
girls in the 14-
16 age were registered. In-
terpretations and construe-
tions placed on this point.
will probably be as many
and varied as opinions at an open session of a
section meeting of a Recreation Congress.
Some may attribute it to physical facilities,
some to our particular program and others to
local conditions.

Whatever the construction placed on it, it
indicates very clearly that on forty-three play-
grounds with both a man and a woman instruc—
tor on each playground and a uniform play
curriculum we were able to pull and hold the
interest of 428 more girls than boys of the
7—10 age. Also it indicates that we were able
to pull and hold 406 more boys than girls of

 

Outings and day trips are papular ed in the Catholic
vacation interests, especially when
the destination is a "swimmin’ hole."

  
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  

the 14-16 age. Why were not these boys ,
quenters of the playgrounds at an earlier '
and why were we not able to reach them '
they were about fourteen years of age? l
doubt' the development of the skills in u E
petitive games between organized teams l
something to do with the pull for the a
boys. At any rate it reveals a great op
tunity, for the 14-16 age is a vulnerable o
the lives of boys and marks the turning

between the course of good citizenship
crime.

It is to be remembered that onl
few years separate this age group from
average age of the youthful criminals
now make up a large percentage of the in
of our prisons and most of them complain
t h e y w
wrong at
because
community
nied them
opportunit
a playgr
leaving
bars dow
mischief.

Religious

Faiths

As to r
on, of the :
children,
are being

2,539 in the Protestant i
213 in the Jewish faith
139 in no faith.

The question of how many playground
dren are actually being served by other .
cies of community recreation has been r
time and again. Here is the answer in
community. Of the 4,425 registered girl

were at the time or had been Girl Scou
Girl Reserves, 26 Y.W.C.A. and l Y.VV.

a total of 231. Of the 4,256. registered
141 were at the time or had been Boy 5
93 Y.M.C.A. and 17 Y.M.H.A., a total ..
This makes a grand total of 482 girls and
out of our 8,681 being reached by other

' o
‘l
t
in
3..
w:

   
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
     
 
    

I
I
PLAYGROUNDS OR CULM BANKS? 183
-. exactly 5%% of those attending the play- twelve children, 9 families with thirteen chil-
e 1nds. This speaks for itself. dren, three families with fourteen children and
two with fifteen children. No wonder so few
_ “on Interests had camping or other vacation opportunities.
Another question to which I wanted to find Nationality Backgrounds
answer through our study was how many The nationalities of our children was an-
. dren have no trips away from home or to other intriguing subject. Not counting the
ps and are entirely dependent on the 1,219 children of American born parents and
‘1 'grounds for their amusement and recrea- grandparents, there were 27 nationalities rep-
during the summer months. Of the 8,681 resented in the group. Of the entire 8,681,
dren, 3,892 girls and 3,740 boys or a total forty-one percent or 3,581 were comprised of
,632 nearly eighty-eight percent. remained Polish, Russian, Slovak and Lithuanian. In
home during the entire summer and were the majority of cases, with the exception of
endent on the playgrounds for their recrea- those listed as Irish, \Velsh and German and
Without any playgrounds they would a few others, both parents were born in the
bably have been playing in the streets and "foreign country. In the excepted nationalities,
: ing mischief wherever it offered itself. 421 one of the parents or one or more of the grand-
s and 370 boys, a total of 791, nine percent, parents were born in the foreign country.
. visits of a week or more with relatives or Following is the number of children of each na-
nds in the country or ’ tio‘nality: Polis h, 2,016;

r cities. Only 146 boys Irish, 1,363; A m e r i c a n ,
' 112 girls, a total of 258, A LETTER FROM A MOTHER 1,219; Russian, 588; En-

. than three percent, had “Being the mother 0‘ ” Childrenrl glish, 560; Slovak, 530;
opportunity of going to want t° thank y°u Fm the In“) and \Velsh, 523; German, 462;

_ , enjoyment the Matson Avenue play- . . o .
anized camps. Nearly ail ground gives to my children. As you thhuanian, 4-47, I ta 1 1 a n ,

‘ hese were SCOUt camps) know I couldn't afford sending them 337; JeWiSh, 213; DUtCh:
e Y.M.C.A. and a few on vacations. But they never worry 142; Syrian, 83; Ukranian,

rch camps. These were 55°“ that The First thing in “19 68;§Scotch, 38; Granish, 21;

. privileged few, 880 girls "‘°”“"9 "W a" ‘2” *° “‘9 P'°Y' French, 19; Greek, 16;Hun-
grounds and my worries are over as I

i“ 401 boys! 3 tom] Of 1,281 know they are well taken care of. garian’ 9; SwediSh’ 8; Mad.
‘ short automobile or can, 5; African, 4; Spanish,

. "Money spent for playgrounds and n . - . .
‘ey tnps Of a day or two instructors is money well spent. It 3’ AuStnan’ 2’ Hawat’ 2’

earby lakes: amusement avoids many, many accidents, as these DamSh’ 1; Serblan’ 1; Phll'

I 's or picnic groundS. In- children would be forced to the streets 111313130: 1?"
ed in this were a large if thelPlaygroand’Assomatlon didn 1: Getting the Opinions
her who counted a day s a" p aygmun 5' of th. parent,
ng on a Church picnic as During the summer the
.13. SO I inCIUded the 1,281 in the large group playground instructors visited .4,118 homes

are entirely dependent on the playgrounds. out of the total of 5,382 homes from which the
children came. There were many reasons for
these visits—securing the cooperation of the
- families in various playground projects, obser-
' nother thing that I was curious about was vation of the home life and environment of the
number of children per family in these children to obtain a clearer understanding of
' families I found that there were 410 their problems and their needs, combating un-
lies with one child, 810 families with two desirable influences through the medium of
ren, 867 families with three children, 929 play and association with other children and
lies with four children, 765 families with to obtain and check on information for my
children, 560 families with six children, study. I also wanted to secure a frank ap-
amilies with seven children, 286 families praisal of our work from the parents of the
eight children, 153 families with nine children. For this purpose the instructors
en, 94 families with ten children, 42 fam- suggested to the parents of five or six families
with eleven children, 23 families with in the neighborhood of each playground that

n per Family

  

'O

 

Playgrounds

or

Culm Banks

By ARTHUR H. MILLER

Superintendent of Recreation
Playground and Recreation Association, Wyoming Valley

IKE many superintendents of recreation, I have A recreation executive discov;
watched hundreds of children come trooping F t b t th d
in the morning through the gates of the play- some ac s a DU 9 c I re" co .
grounds in happy anticipation of carefree ing to the playgrounds of his ci
hours of play or sport or the fascination of ‘
making lovely colored things with their own under one arm and in the other an empty m'
hands under the shade of a tree or porch. I bottle, a bit of handcraft or a pasteboard b I
have watched their faces, eager, expectant, that had contained sandwiches earlier in t i
drawn by a charm as fresh as if it had not day.
held them in its sway yesterday and many Here, as in most industrial centers, th
other yesterdays. children are from the poorer homes, the hu
As I have thrilled to the shrill of the “yoo- bler homes, homes of the mine workers, of
hoos” and to the patter of many feet, some dustrial workers, of laborers in many fields
bare, some almost bare, I have said to myself work, of foreign—born parentage. There co
that all is well, for here is young life in the . be no doubt as to that; a glance at their re
vibrant process of the making, the most mag- tration cards would prove it conclusively. %
nificent challenge and mystery in the world. what else? There must be a great deal e
And toward evening I have watched them that I should know about them. My curios
trooping contentedly home again, was stirred. W

weary and dirty, son’le trundling For the majority 0; children City pIay_ age groups pred
the Younger Offsprmg 0f the famlly grounds must bea substitute for camp. mate? What P

 

PLAYGROUNDS OR CULM BANKS? 181

.terests hold strongest sway? What hand-
afts? How many and what national groups
0 we have? What do the playgrounds really
l ean to those thousands of homes, to the
others and fathers? How many children in
‘ families? What other than the playground,
ould they have in vacation opportunities?

; hat potential leadership is manifesting itself?
\

These were just a few of the things that it
emed I should know about these children to
nderstand their needs and, of equal impor-
nce, to be able to translate their needs to
ose who dictate the destiny of the commu-
' y and on whose will or grace the continu-
ce of the playgrounds depend. Even in per-
. tly normal times it is not easy to interpret
e play requirements of certain thousands
' children to those whose children are sent to
uestered mountain lakes in New Hamp-
ire or Maine or to the seashore for the greater
rt of the summer. In times such as these it
'comes a perplexing problem. For one thing
means striking a fine balance between the
istent hue and cry of “potatoes first” and
se instrinsic values, many of which are most
ally derived through the child’s play life
(1 on which our future civilization, nation-
and internationally, must depend for sur-
al.

     
  
 
      
    
   
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
    
  
   
  

   

l

nfortunately, under present conditions and
th a perspective too often accustomed to
rt ranges, it is only too easy to throw the
_ ance dangerously out of adjustment for our
ure safety and welfare. Fortunately, in the
is, many minds are working intelligently

preserving the balance. Commissions,
rds, city officials, finance and budget com-
ees are struggling with the problem in
community of the nation. Out of it
1d come something constructive in the ad-
ement of social work—for the surviving
c1es.

Finding Out the Facts

‘ ese were some of the considerations
h embarked me on the task of interpreting
work of our fifty playgrounds through a
9' y which began last summer of 8,681 chil-
_* . and 5,382 homes. Considering the vast
" unt of energy which had to be applied to

i
l

  

I . . . .
~ work itself With a curtailed staff it was not

a propitious time for collecting so large a
quantity of data as seemed required for so
complete a study. It was collected through
the extra effort of a staff of eighty capable
workers and since then time has been available
for assimilating and classifying it.

The 8,681 children embraced in this study
were enrolled during the summer of 1931 on
forty-three different playgrounds in every part
of Wyoming Valley, the furthest north being
twelve miles from the furthest south. This is
an average of 202 children from each of the
forty-three playgrounds. Twenty-four of them
are located within the boundaries of the city
of Wilkes-Barre with its population of 100,000,
and nineteen are located in the surrounding
communities with a total population of about
150,000. A number of playgrounds were not
included in the study because of incomplete
record keeping by the instructors. The forty-
three which are included are located in com-
munities typical of the anthracite coal region
of Pennsylvania built around stark culm banks
and bleak breakers, cut into sections, half-sec-
tions, and quarter-sections by railroads, nar—
row-gauge and “locie” tracks, each with a
more adequate quota 'of speakeasies than of

acres of play space on which to rear its future
citizens.

The children included in the study are from
every section, the “patches,” the congested
city neighborhoods and the middle class homes
of the bosses, store men, ofhce workers and the
professional men. Although 16,000 children
were registered on the playgrounds, the num-
ber was cut almost in half -for the purpose of
our study by eliminating all those whose rec-
ords were not complete enough to give me a
rounded picture. All casual attenders who
came but infrequently for a swing or a ride
and who resisted further participation were
eliminated. Regular attendance and participa-
tion in a certain number of handcraft projects
and in regular daily or special activities were
the basis of inclusion. 4,425 happened to be
girls and 4,256 were boys. There were twenty-
seven nationalities represented.

Age Groups

Often have I heard the matter of age groups
attending playgrounds discussed and argued.
It is tremendously important that we should
know more and more about it as it applies to

.-f____-'-1:...'- _.

I
I I

182 PLAYGROUNDS OR CULM BANKS?

our own playgrounds because of its basic re-
lationship to program planning. The predom-
inating age has been placed here, there and
everywhere. Now we know where it belongs
in the Wyoming Valley playgrounds. The
following table is quite convincing evidence.

3-6 '7-10 11-13 14-16 Total

Girls  742 1,854 1,342 487 4,425
Boys ....... .. 546 1,426 1,391 893 4,256
Total ....... . . 1,288 3,280 2,733 1,380 8,681

Thus it will be seen that the predominating
age group on our playgrounds both for boys
and girls is from seven to ten inclusive and
that almost seventy per cent of all of the chil—
dren are between the ages of seven and thir-
teen years inclusive. Much has been said of
the pre—school child on the playground and yet
with adequate
facilities a n (1
activities pro-
vided for them
we find th at
less than fifteen
percent. of our
total is made
up of children
of th e pre-
school age. It
is interesting to
note that 428
more girls than
boys in the 7-10
age and 406
more boys than
girls in the 14-

16 age were registered. In- Outings and day trips are popular ed in the Catholic fa'
terpretations and construc- Vacation interests; esPixie”)! When 2,539 in the Protestant f

tions placed on this point . the dQStinati” is a "Wimmi", h°'°'" 213 in the Jewish faith 1‘

will probably be as many

and varied as opinions at an open session of a
section meeting of a Recreation Congress.
Some may attribute it to physical facilities,
some to our particular program and others to
local conditions.

Whatever the construction placed on it, it
indicates very clearly that on forty-three play-
grounds with both a man and a woman instruc-
tor on each playground and a uniform play
curriculum we were able to pull and hold the
interest of 428 more girls than boys of the
7—10 age. Also it indicates that we were able
to pull and hold 406 more boys than girls of

 

.-
-0 - -

    
  
  
    
 
   
   
    
  
   
 
 
    
  
  
   

the 14-16 age. Why were not these boys fm
quenters of the playgrounds at an earlier '
and why were we not able to reach them u
they were about fourteen years of age? [
doubt the development of the skills in cQ‘l
petitive games between organized teams :-
something to do with the pull for the ol
boys. At any rate it reveals a" great op
tunity, for the 14-16 age is a vulnerable on
the lives of boys and marks the turning p
between the course of good citizenship . "
crime.

It is to be remembered that only
few years separate this age group from ‘
average age of the youthful criminals .I
now make up a large percentage of the inm ‘1'
of our prisons and most of them complain 1 
t h e y w e i
wrong at '
because
community
nied them
opportunity ‘
a playgro
leaving 1
bars down‘
mischief. -
1
Religious ’
Faiths

As to rel .1
on, of the 8, 
children, 5, 
are being r

139 in no faith. 8

The question of how many playground c "
dren are actually being served by other a .

. . . t
c1es of community recreatlon has been ra1
time and again. Here is the answer in .
community. Of the 4,425 registered girls, i
D
b

were at the time or had been Girl Scouts
Girl Reserves, 26 Y.W.C.A. and 1 Y.W.H
a total of 231. Of the 4,256 registered b
141 were at the time or had been Boy Sco 4
93 Y.M.C.A. and 17 Y.M.H.A., a total of - ‘-
This makes a grand total of 482 girls and -_
out of our 8,681 being reached by other a

_Q.

¢

Q
3

   
    
  
   
   
   
    
    
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  

. exactly 5%% of those attending the play-
unds. This speaks for itself.

- tion lnterests

nother question to which I wanted to find
answer through our study was how many
dren have no trips away from home or to
ps and are entirely dependent on the
'grounds for their amusement and recrea-
during the summer months. Of the 8,681
ldren, 3,892 girls and 3,740 boys or a total
,632 nearly eighty-eight percent. remained
home during the entire summer and were
endent on the playgrounds for their recrea-
. \Vithout any playgrounds they would
bably have been playing in the streets and
ing mischief wherever it offered itself. 421
s and 370 boys, a total of 791, nine percent,
u visits of a week or more with relatives or
nds in the country or
er cities. Only 146 boys
. 112 girls, a total of 258,
than three percent, had
opportunity of going to
, nized camps. Nearly all
these were Scout camps,
e Y.M.C.A. and a few
urch camps. These were
privileged few, 880 girls
I 401 boys, a total of 1,281
1 short automobile or
lley trips of a day or two
nearby lakes, amusement
ks or picnic grounds. In-
ed in this were a large
ber who counted a day’s
ing on a Church picnic as
'p, so I included the 1,281 in the large group
a are entirely dependent on the playgrounds.

rv ren per Family

nother thing that I was curious about was
number of children per family in these
2 families I found that there were 410
ilies with one child, 810 families with two
dren, 867 families with three children, 929
ilies with four children, 765 families with
children, 560 families with six children,
families with seven children, 286 families

eight children, 153 families with nine
1 dren, 94 families with ten children, 42 fam-
'i l with eleven children, 23 families with

A LETTER FROM A MOTHER

“Being the mother of II children, 1
want to thank you for the help and
enjoyment the Matson Avenue play-
ground gives to my children. As you
know I couldn't afford sending them
on vacations. But they never worry
about that. The first thing in the
morning they are off to the play-
grounds and my worries are over, as I
know they are well taken care of.

"Money spent for playgrounds and
instructors is money well spent. lt
avoids many, many accidents, as these
children would be forced to the streets
if the Playground Association didn't
have playgrounds."

PLAYGROUNDS OR CULM BANKS? 183

twelve children, 9 families with thirteen chil-
dren, three families with fourteen children and
two with fifteen children. No wonder so few
had camping or other vacation opportunities.

Nationality Backgrounds
The nationalities of our children was an-

other intriguing subject. Not counting the
1,219 children of American born parents and
grandparents, there were 27 nationalities rep-
resented in the group. Of the entire 8,681,
forty-one percent or 3,581 were comprised of
Polish, Russian, Slovak and Lithuanian. In
the majority of cases, with the exception of
those listed as Irish, Welsh and German and
a few others, both parents were born in the

'foreign country. In the excepted nationalities,

one of the parents or one or more of the grand-
parents were born in the foreign country.
Following is the number of children of each na-
tio'nality: Polish, 2,016;
Irish, 1,363; American,
1,219; Russian, 588; En-
glish, 560; Slovak, 530;
\Velsh, 523; German, 462;
Lithuanian, 447; I t a 1 i a n ,
337; Jewish, 213; Dutch,
142 ; Syrian, 83; Ukranian,
68; Scotch, 38; Granish, 21;
French, 19; Greek, 16; Hun-
garian, 9; Swedish, 8; Mexi-
can, 5; African, 4; Spanish,
3; Austrian, 2; Harvat, 2;
Danish, 1; Serbian, 1; Phil-
lippino, 1:“

Getting the Opinions

of the Parents

During the summer the
playground instructors visited 14,118 homes
out of the total of 5,382 homes from which the
children came. There were many reasons for
these visits—securing the cooperation of the
families in various playground projects, obser-
vation of the home life and environment of the
children to obtain a clearer understanding of
their problems and their needs, combating un-
desirable infiuences through the medium of
play and association with other children and
to obtain and check on information for my
study. I also wanted to secure a frank ap-
praisal of our work from the parents of the
children. For this purpose the instructors
suggested to the parents of five or six families
in the neighborhood of each playground that

 

 

184 PLAYGROUNDS OR CULM BANKS?

they write me a letter stating very frankly

and in their own words their opinion as to the
value of the work done on the playground,
either praise, suggestions or criticism.

The result was the receipt of several hun-
dred letters, many written in foreign lan-
guages. Although all of them were differently
expressed there were notes of a similar point
of view as to playgrounds running through all
of them. One of these dominant notes was
the need of playgrounds to keep “our children
out of mischief and trouble.” This seemed to‘
be an outstanding fear of nearly all of the par-
ents of both boys and girls; a fear of some un-
forseen danger of conduct that would be dam-
aging to the child lurking around the corner.
Of course, many other things were mentioned
in the letters, things which were of particular
appeal to each mother or father and covering
nearly our whole program of handcraft and
special activities. Had ten times or fifty times
as many letters been written from as many
different homes, I am convinced that they
would have been just as typical of the
sentiment of the masses of our population.
These painstakingly written letters are the
most intensely human documents from the
hands of parents that I have ever seen. I will
be glad to send a printed pamphlet containing
most of them to anyone writing me in care
of “Recreation.”

It is interesting to note how many times
various comments about the playgrounds were
made in the different letters. 155 letters spoke
of the safety which the playgrounds afforded
from street play, from playing around the
railroads and mine tracks and other accidents.
142 letters spoke of the useful things made by
the children and enumerated most of the hand-
craft projects carried on. 126 letters stated in
as many different ways an unqualified advo-
cacy of the playground, its benefits to the com-
munity, that money for playgrounds is money
well spent. This interested me because the
writers were home owners and taxpayers. All
of these comments were expressed in no un-
certain terms. 102 letters contained the frank
statements of the parents that the playgrounds
“keep my children out of mischief and tron-
ble.” 84 letters commented on the educational
value of the program mentioning such activi-
ties as story telling, music (ukulele and har-
monica), dramatics and folk dancing. In 83

letters were comments on the health and p ‘
sical benefits of the playground, games, spor

athletics, physical fitness tests. 77 letters a
pressed the appreciation, chiefly of mothe
for the relief from anxiety, worry and care .

forded them by the playground. Many s ‘
that because of conditions it was necess
for them to go out to work during the day a .

I I .

that the playground made this possible. In .
letters were comments on the character bui
ing value of the playground, obedience, ma

0

l

1

It was a matter of special interest to us ‘
secure an analysis of participation in activiti

not only as a diagnosis of our program for 1 !

   
        

ness, good sportsmanship, cheerfulness, se .
of responsibility, honesty and truthfulness.
56 letters was mentioned the pleasure, hap
ness and enjoyment derived from the pl
ground by the children. In 48 letters the w
“‘citizenship” was used in connection with
playground. In 41 letters was mentioned t
appeal, lure or attraction of the playgrou

for the children.

Activities

summer but for use in planning of future p

grams. The importance of changing the p

gram from summer to summer, except in so

of the fundamental activities, is too obvious

require comment. This is particularly true

the handcraft activities At least twelve n
handcraft projects, six for boys and six 1*
girls should be brought out every summer.

PARTICIPATION IN SPECIAL AcrIvrrIEs CURRICULUM

Project Girls Boys T
Pet Shows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..1,283 916 2, i

Volley ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l,ll9 1,742 2, ,

Qu01ts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268 1,778 2, A

Careful Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450 . . . ‘ A

Safety Patrol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 512 ' 5

Safety League . . . . . . . . . . . ..1,569 1,831 3, ,

Ukelele . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 354 . . . j

Harmonica . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305 1
Low Organization ‘Games. . . .2,371 1,981 4, .
Story Telling . . . . . . . . . . . . ..2,256 1,444 3, J

Drama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 874 368 1, ’

Citizenship Activities . . . . . ..l,411 1,567 2, '.

Folk Dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,058 . . . 1, j

Track Meet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 211 383 ' ,

Captain ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 475 1,073 l, ;

Lantern Fete . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,289 899 2, ‘
Hike .................... .. 747 . 451 1, 1
Music Contest . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 64 52 .
Playground ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,937 l, J
Knot Hole Club (merit 
awards) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 457 ‘
Aircraft Flying Contest . . . . . . . . 363 ‘
Total Participations . . . . . .15,799 18,059 33,

{In-f

  
  
    
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
    
   
    
   
  
    
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
  

TICIPATION IN GIRL’s HANDC‘RAFT PROJECTS

.r  on... l o o o I o o o u o o o I n l o a o o o o o o o l o o o o u to 1,030

' thercraft belts ............................ .. 1,180
' corated lanterns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.193

s: rugs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 621

l ' r flowers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 583

ffed animal toys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 353

ketry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 291

p shades . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 219

'lting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 129

t n-eedlecraft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117

. 1 making . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

. tery decorating . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12

ip carving . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8

' ions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

6
ndry bags . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5
' 'ture airplanes .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1

5,763
TICIPATION IN Bov’s HANDCRAFT PROJECTS
he-rcraft belts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
orated lanterns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  802
craft (includes book—ends, door-stops, tie
cks, cut with coping saw and decorated in
olors with paints or crayon) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 541

ers (not motor driven) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 358

' carving . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 344

- r toys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 216

niature airplanes (flying model) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 208

p shades . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

‘ rugs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 14

~ r flowers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 14

, or boats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

‘ etry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
3,154

' onship Training

A great deal has been written about the
rk of the playground in the training of good
ure citizens. I have often wondered just
w much of this is the direct product of sys-
‘ atic planning and organization with a fear-
disregard of political disapproval and how
ch is merely a by-product of the things usu-
y done on the playground. No doubt valu-
le social adjustments will be made and new
ial attitudes developed wherever children
brought together under good leadership.
is fortuitous that we can label these “citi-
ship building.” But should we accept these
the sum total of our opportunity and our
'ation? Should we be more direct and
' iberate and resourceful? Should we not go
er into the things that constitute good
zenship, good government and clean poli-
. and depend less on the element of sports-
ship that all will come out well. I may
r the answer that the classroom and the
ics class are the places for this. To this I
uld say that we have had classrooms for
y generations and politics are still politics
t worse.

PLAYGROUNDS 0R CULM BANKS? 185

Our firsr direct effort through the play-
grounds to educate for citizenship was made
six years ago in the form of a big game in
which 12,000 children participated. We called
it the playground election and the actual play-
ing of it required two weeks. It was, in every
way possible a miniature of a regular adult
election. Printed ballots of the usual kind both
for primaries and general election were used.
There was plenty of enthusiastic campaign
oratory but no bloody noses and bicycles were
at a premium. The participating age group
was restricted to children from eleven to fif-
teen yeags of age inclusive. Party delegates
were elected on all playgrounds representing
the three parties, red, white and blue. District
and general party conventions followed from
which each party emerged with its candidate
for mayor and a string of officials. Through
all of this part of the game with its many meet-
ings we taught citzenship directly and force-
fully and in every form. The children learned
about every phase of government, municipal,
county, state and national. They learned how
officials are elected to office and what they do
in office. They were shown both sides of the
picture, the decent side and the corrupt side.
They came to the primaries and general elec-
tion with a wholesome respect for the ballot
and the obligation encumbent on every good
citizen of voting and of voting intelligently
and for the good of the public. They ran their
own ballot boxes and there was an element of
sportsmanship about it that was good to see.
Since then we have played this game every
year. Two girls have been elected mayors and
a number of girls have been elected to other
public offices. Three 'times the governor of
Pennsylvania has received the entire official
family at Harrisburg. As these children reach
voting and office holding age, which they are
now doing, there will be a new element intro-
duced in our political situation.

NOTE: It is suggested that anyone wishing
further information about the playground elec-
tion plan as it is operated by the Playground and
Recreation Association of Wyoming Valley, 1266
Miners Bank Building, \Vilkes-Barre, Pennsyl-
vania, communicate with the association which
has issued some interesting material on the
subject.

All Aboard for the International Congress!

There are many reasons, and many inducements, too, - --

for going to Los Angeles. Here are a few of them."

VERY. Recreation Congress has been a singing
E one. “Indeed there is singing nowadays at
almost every one of the hundreds of con—
ventions held annually in this country. At no
otherntimes is the power of
rinuASic toiibi‘nd the people to-
gether more valued than it is
at such gatherings. Knowing
this there is greater interest
in the. mUSical possibilites of
the "International Recreation
Congress than. there has been
for any other one.
‘ First of all, the possibility
of bringing together in spirit
people of over thirty nations
is very stirring; and a second
reason for the special inter-
est in music is the possibility
of a very valuable inter-
change of the best folk songs
in the nations. A letter has
gone to the leading delegate
of each. nation asking that
the original words and music
of each country’s six best
beloved 'folk songs be sent
to use with, translations. As
a result We, have received
copies of many delightful .
and inSpiring songs, some of
which we shall sing at the"
Congress and the remainder of which we shall,
it is expected, have an opportunity to become
familiar with at special times when especially in-
terested delegates will be invited to sing or listen
to them.
The International Congress is coming at a time
when interest in group singing is greater than it
has ever been in this country.~ In summer camps,

186

playgrounds, other recreation centers, rural clu

 

British sportsmanship is traditional.
Noel Curtis-Bennett, C.V.O., will tell

how recreation has contributed torit.

  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
       
   
 
   

for children and for adults, Boy Scouts and Gi
Scouts, parent-teacher associations, the Rotar'
Kiwanis and other service clubs, and, most widel
‘ of all, in schools, there ..
been increasing desire to cu
tivate informal singing. I
the past, especially durin
the war, this desire has us
ally been concerned entirel
with the power of music I
arouse social feeling an
strengthen morale; and th
quality of the words ant
melodies sung has ofte
been a minor considerati01
or it has been entirely ne
glected. This is still a com
mon failing. But while socia
feeling and morale are ver
important considerations, es
pecially in these times, ther
is a growing interestin th
more fundamental aspects 0
music, in its providing a wa
of fuller, richer life for th
individual and the group.
“What is best and mo
delightful‘to sing?” is ask
by more and more grou
There is a constant strea
of songs being published I
our composers of so-called popular songs, b
though many of these are sung by some of t
groups to which we have referred, few of the
are suitable in words or in music for the mo
enjoyable kind of singing that is being sough
That kind of :singing has been carried on fo
generations by" the folk of ourrcountry and othe 1
countries older :than ours. -.We in the Unite I

l

O

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
   
 

1i

ALL ABOARD FOR THEilNTERNATIONAL CONGRESS! 18.7

    
 

CONGRESS FEATURES

A picturesque water pageant
in the new Olympic Pool put
on by 600 children From the
Los Angeles Playground and
Recreation Department.
Audience oF I0,000 being
planned For. Saturday night,
July 23.

A music demonstration in the
beautiFul municipal Greek
Theatre including massed
bands, community symphony
orchestra, civic chorus oF
Iooo voices, Negro spirituals,
and group singing by the
5000 spectators. Sunday
night, July 24.

An international Play Day at
the Rose Bowl, Pasadena,
depicting the traditional
games and sports oF various
nations. Staged by Foreign
groups. Wednesday night,
July 27.

An old-Fashioned Spanish

Barbecue at Pasadena's na-
tionally known Brookside
Park. Wednesday night,
July 27.

There is still time for last minute delegates to
mb aboard the Special to Los Angeles! Induce-

States are likely to profit
most from an interchange of
folk songs, but our purpose
is to provide such a collec-
tion of songs from many na-
tions as will be welcomed
by the leaders from each na-
tion represented at the Con-
gress.

\Ve may not all be able to
understand one another at
the Congress; there may be
barriers of language and
customs. But when we sing
together we shall have a
real league of nations, an
ideal international commu-
nity, which may ultimately
have greater value than all
the international conferences
of diplomats that have ever
taken place. Moreover, we are

not forgetting that an inter-i

change of songs may pro-
duce happy results in the
many groups of foreign1
born men and .women in
American cities and towns.

 

CONGRESS FEATURES“

International play night and
social dancing. All delegates
participating. Monday night,
July 25.

A special tea For all delegates
given by the Directorial StaFF
oF the Department oF Play-
ground and Recreation, City
oF Los Angeles.

Four aFternoons Free For tours
oF Los Angeles and vicinity
to see parks, playgrounds,
beaches, community activities
and Facilities, as well as other
points oF interest, including
moving picture studios, and
estates, the Famous CaliFornia
orange belt, and camps, also
For golFand swimming at mun-
icipal courses and beaches.

An international exhibit show-
ing recreation around the
world.

Olympic Games apen the
day aFter the Congress
closes.

Some Inducements OFFered

Eastern Standard Time. This is the ofiicial
Congress Party.

Special services—reduced

ents are many and are increasing rapidly as rates. Delegates from all parts of the East,

 
      
   
    
 
 
 

D. Sondhi, latest
ember of the Advisory
mmittee, is connected

ith the Indian Educa-

| uly 23rd approaches.

nal Service at Lahore.

Interesting personalities
from many lands will be
present. The Congress
immediately precedes
the Olympic Games.
Unusually attractive en-
tertainmen‘t events have
been planned. The Bilt-
more Hotel, Congress
headquarters, has re-
duced its rates, and there
is the important consid-
eration that travel costs
to California this year-
are very low.

The Recreation Con-

ress Special party is scheduled to leave
’ew York, Saturday, July '16, at ten A. M.

Middle W'est and South may connect with the
Special Party at no ex-
tra rail cost. If you
are not on the regular
route (New York to
Chicago via the Penn-
sylvania Railroad) plan
to join the party at
Chicago. Special leaves
Chicago Sunday night,
July 17, at 8:00 P.M.
Stopovers at Salt Lake P
City, Oakland and San Dr. Karl Ritter van

, . Halt, attorney, banker
FranClSCO ‘Vlth tours and sportsman of Ger.

and entertainment pro- "‘3qu Wi" “"59"” the

vided by local commit- "bled (if Pam", 'PI'YI'

tees. Please notify us at once if ydu are plan-

ning to join the Special. “ " ’ ‘
(Continued on page 211)

 

188 ALL ABOARD FOR THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS!

 

First International Recreation Congress Program

 

F special interest is the fact that the program, which
0 includes topics of vital interest, is now in its final

stages and we are able to announce many of the
speakers and topics.

GENERAL SESSIONS

Count de Baillet Latour, President of the International
Olympic Committee, Belgium
ReSponse (to Address of Welcome) for Visiting
Delegates.

Sir Harold Bowden, Chairman and Managing Director
of the Raleigh Cycle Co., England
Use and Abuse of Leisure.

Noel Curtis-Bennett, C.V.O., Honorary Treasurer, The
National Playing Fields Association, England
Contribution of Sport and Recreation to British
Life and Character.

Walter F. Dexter, President of Whittier College, Whit-
tier, California
Recreation and Citizenship.

J. Sigfrid Edstrom, Managing Director, Swedish General
Electric Company, Sweden
Recreation in the Scandanavian Countries.

Dr. Joseph Gruss, President of the Czechoslavak Olympic
Committee, Czechoslovakia
Sokols in Czechoslovakia.

Gustavus T. Kirby, Treasurer of the National Recreation
Association, New York City

Dr. Seiichi Kishi, President, Japan Amateur Athletic
Association, Japan
Recreation in Japan.

Dr. Rufus von Kleinsmid, President, University of
Southern California, Los Angeles, California

Possibilities of Recreation in Promoting International
Good Will.

Dr. Theodor Lewald, President, German National Com-
mission for Physical Training, Germany
How Does Germany Justify the Large Public Ex-
penditure for Sport Facilities?

Alderman E. S. Marks, Australia
Recreation in Australia and Games Played There.

Dr. Robert Millikan, Director, Norman Bridge Labora—
tory of Physics and Chairman, Executive Council,

California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Cali-
fornia

The New World of Leisure as Viewed by a Scientist.

Dr. F. M. de Molnar, International Commissioner, Hun-
garian Boys ,Scouts Association, Hungary
Contribution of Scouting to Recreation in Europe.

Honorable James Ralph, Jr., Governor of California,
California

Address of Welcome.

General Dr. Stanislaw Rouppert, V. P. Scientific Council

for Physical Education in Poland, Poland
Recreation in Poland.

Colonel Dr. Meriggio Serrati, Royal Italian Navy, Italy
Recreation in Italy.

GROUP DISCUSSION MEETINGS

Sports For the People

Gustavus T. Kirby, Treasurer, National Recreation
Assocration, New York, New York

Dr. Carl Diem, General Secretary, German Na-

tional Commission for Physical Culture, Germany
Lamberto Alvarez-Gayou, Director of Physical Ed-

ucation and Public Recreation, Northern Terri-
tory of Lower California, Mexico

Recreation in Rural Districts

Snowpine Liu, Writer and Lecturer, China

W. R. Ralston, Extension Department, University
of California, Berkeley, California

Arts and Craits in a Recreation Program

Dr. R. Tait McKenzie, Sculptor and Author, Phila
delphia, Pennsylvania

Leila Mechlin, Secretary, The American Federation
of Arts, Washington, D. C.

Recreation in Workers' Organizations

Leifer Magnusson, International Labor Organiza
tion of the League of Nations, Washington, D. C
Alice Henry, Author and Lecturer, Australia

A. W. Hoch, President, California State Federatio
of Labor

Famin Play

Mrs. Hugh Bradford, President, National Congres
of Parents and Teachers, Sacramento, Califomi

Dr. Karl Ritter Von Halt, Attorney, Banker
Sportsman, Germany

Mrs. E. Phyllis Devey, Representative of the Par
ents National Educational Union, England

August Ocenasek, Ministry of Hygiene and Physi
cal Education, Czechoslovakia

How Can School System: Prepare For Leisure ?

Dr. Frank A. Bouelle, Superintendent of School
Los Angeles, California

Candida Bartolome, Acting Director of Physical
Education, University of the Philippines, Philip-
pine Islands

Dr. J. L. Meriam, Professor of Education, Uni-
versity of California, Las Angeles, California

    

institutes For Training Recreation Leaders

William R. La Porte, Professor of Physical Edu-
cation, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, California

Dr. Carl Diem, General Secretary, German National
Commission for Physical Culture, Germany

se of School Facilities (After Hours) for Recreation

Paul E. Stewart, Superintendent of Schools, Santa
Barbara, California

Professor Buichi Ohtani

Dorothy C. Enderis, Assistant Superintendent in
charge of Extension Department, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin

ecreation and Unemployment

George R. Bliss, Chairman Southern California
Recreation and Park Development Committee,

California State Chamber of Commerce
Frau Dr. Elsa Matz, Member of the German

Reichstag, Germany
V. K. Brown, Superintendent of Playgrounds and
Sports, Chicago, Illinois

e-creatian in Religious Groups

Dr. John Brown, Jr., Secretary of Physical Educa-

tion, National Council of Y.M.C.A’s.

Oscar A. Kirkham, Executive Secretary, Young
Men's Mutual Improvement Association, Salt

Lake City, Utah

creation and Delinquency

Avery Brundage, President, A.A.U., Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Sigmund Stern, President, Recreation Com-
mission, San Francisco, California

Hon. Robert H. Scott, Judge, Superior Court, Los
Angeles, California

creation as a Field For Volunteer Public Service

Clyde Doyle, President, Recreation Commission,
Long Beach, California

Noel Curtis-Bennett, C.V.O., Honorary Treasurer,
National Playing Fields Association, England

erary Activities in a Recreation Program-Use of Lectures,
rums, Debates, Reading

Lee F. Hanmer, Director, Department of Recrea-
tion, Russell Sage Foundation

Sibyl Baker, Supervisor of Playgrounds, \Vash-
ington, D. C.

Everett R. Perry, City Librarian, Los Angeles,
California

teur Music Malling—Orchestras, Choruses, Festivals, Bands
Speakers to be announced

ALL ABOARD FOR THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS! 189

Recreation and City Planning

Charles H. Diggs, Director, Regional Planning
Commission, Los Angeles, California

Senor Carlos Contreras, Architect and Member of
the National Planning Commission of Mexico,
Mexico

Charles Henry Cheney, Palos Verdes Estates, Cali-
fornia

Governmental Administration at Recreation

Hon. Austin E. Grifiiths, Former Judge of the Su-

perior Court of the State of Washington, Seattle,
Washington

Professor Ernst Wunsch, Czechoslovakia
Alderman E. S. Marks, Australia

Questions and Answers on Recreation Problems

Howard S. Braucher, Secretary, National Recrea-
tion Association

 

Nora: Na addresses are scheduled for this session. A number
of experienced workers will be in attendance to try to
answer recreation questions which delegates may desire
to present. List your questions and hand them to the
Chairman. Other questions may be raised from the door.

Hiking, Camping, Mountain Climbing and other Outing Activities

Jerome B. Pendleton, President, Playground Com-
mission, San Diego, California

Dr. Frank M. Messerli, Switzerland

Frau Dr. Elsa Matz, Member of the German

Reichstag, Germany

Recreation-Far Women and Girls

Mabel Lee, Director of Physical Education for
Women, The University of Nebraska, Lincoln,
Nebraska

Emily Case, Chairman of the Department of Hygi-
ene and Physical Education, Ginling College,

China
Anne F. Hodgkins, Field Secretary, \Vomen’s Divi-

sion, N.A.A.F., New York City

Additional Recreation Topics at Special Interest

E. G. Drigny, France
Development and Use of Swimming Pools in

Europe
Frank Beaurepaire, Australia
Playgrounds in Melbourne

Dramatics in a Recreation Program

Mrs. D. E. F. Easton, Past President of San Fran-
cisco Federation of \Vomen's Clubs, San Fran-

cisco, California
Harry E. Troxel, Supervisor, Educational Drama-

tics, Oakland, California
Virgil Dahl, President, Los Angeles County Drama
Association, Los Angeles, California

First International Recreation Congress
July 23-29

Paddle

Tennis

ISTORY tells us that the oldest games
H of which we know were played in

Europe in the Middle Ages, and in
much the same form as the games are
played now. The two oldest tennis games
are known as “Court Tennis” and f‘Rac—
quets,” and the tennis games of today are
derived from these two, falling naturally
“into two groups, known as the net games
and the wall games.

Lawn Tennis has been the most popu-
lar of all the tennis games. It was de-
vised by Major Wingate, an English
army officer, in the early seventies. Some
of the best elements of court tennis were
retained and the game was simplified and
adapted to outdoor play. It rapidly gained favor,
and is now played in all civilized countries. Pad-
dle Tennis is an adaptation of tennis. It was in-
vented in 1925 by Frank Peer Beal, who sought
to incorporate all the good points of tennis into a
game that did not require the perfect physical
facilities of tennis. It is played exactly as tennis
is played, and it has much of the fascination,
speed, fun, and skill of the regular game.

It takes only half as much space for paddle tennis as
for regulation, but there is just as much exercise!

 

  
 

By JOHNrFox

Director of Recreation

Millburn, New Jersey

  
 
   
    
   
 
   
   
  
   
  
    
   
  

. l
i .
0
I

Paddle tennis teaches children skills whic
will later make tennis so fascinating a gam

This new game may be played on any kind 0
smooth surface, turf, wood, dirt, asphalt" or con
crete. The court is laid out similarly to a regula
tennis court, except that all the dimensions ar
halved. The playing area is 18 feet by 39 feet
thus requiring only one-fourth the area of a reg
ular tennis court. Because of the reduced spac
required, four times as many people can play a
could play regular tennis—sixteen people on th
space required for one tennis courts .

Two years ago one of the problems in on
municipal park was the lack of a sufficient num
ber of tennis courts to care for all wh
wished to play. At that time, as well a
now, financial conditions did not permi
the installation of new tennis courts, an
also there Was very little ground t .
could be given up for active game pur
poses. As an experiment to relieve th
crowded conditions of the tennis cou
a battery of four stone dust Paddle Te
nis courts was installed.

To say that the game proved popula
with the playground children is putti
it mildly. In one season’s play it be -
our leading playground sport. It was 11 ;

 

    

l

l

I long before the conclusion was forced upon us
that under the constant wear and tear to which
the courts were subjected nothing short of con-
lcrete surfacing would serve satisfactorily. At the
outset we did not make a hard and fast rule that
rubber soled shoes must be worn, for we knew
lthat the poorer children could not afford them.
aturally, the hard leather heels played havoc
with the stone dust courts. The necessity of lin-
ing the courts daily with lime was another con-
ibuting factor toward the installation of con-

' rete courts, as well as the lengthening of the

I laying season.

 
 
 
  
  
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

  

Accordingly specifications were drawn up, and
four-inch concrete slab, with proper sub-drain-
e, measuring 120x 60 feet was built and four
urts laid out. The playing lines were marked
it with traffic paint. The cost of the whole pro-
ct was less than $600. This was made possible
y the use of unemployed labor and the low price
f materials.

\Ve believe the venture has been a success, for
e children are playing it in large numbers, and
nsequently the present demand by children for
nnis permits is less, leaving more courts avail-
le for adults. In the future, however, we are
pecting a larger demand for tennis courts due
. the fact that tennis is being taught through the
ame of Paddle Tennis to children who otherwise
ould never have become interested. We would
refer that the children play Paddle Tennis in-
ead of tennis for several reasons. Experts say
t children should not play tennis with an un-
r-sized racquet because it weakens the wrist
d does not aid them in learning strokes. Wil-
m Tilden says that a child, boy or girl, should
rt with a full-sized racquet of at least thirteen
nces. Our theory is that a child will learn the
okes much better by using the wooden paddles
r its weight, balance, and size are better adapted
n his strength than a full-sized tennis racquet.
¢ e game does not require the expensive equip-
nt that tennis does. Our department furnishes
e paddles. The only equipment a child must
ve is a ball, and what child does not possess
r e sort of a ball that will answer the require-
nts? The sponge rubber ball is recommended
r play, but our children use old tennis balls
at have been given them by older brothers and
ters or adults. A full-sized tennis court is too
ge and the regulation tennis net height is too
gh for children under twelve years old.

Our tennis players who are proficient at their

PADDLE TENNIS 191

game never play Paddle Tennis except when the
clay tennis courts are too wet for play. Quite a
few adults do play Paddle Tennis during the
evenings, but they represent a group who have
never been really good tennis players. We under-
stand, however, that nationally famous tennis
stars do endorse it enthusiastically and that in
other cities it has become popular with adult
tennis players.

The Paddle Tennis nets are put up each morn-
ing at nine o’clock and are taken down when
darkness prevents further play. Thus the courts
are accessible for use during much longer hours
than the playground is open under supervision.
Players sign on a half-hours basis for singles and
one hour for doubles which prevents the monop-
oly of the courts by a few players.

On our courts we find that the boys start as
young as seven and the girls as young as nine.
After a season’s play they develop skills that will
be a great advantage in playing tennis later.

Tournaments are conducted twice during the
summer season, July 4th and Labor Day. The
boys are grouped according to age. The lowest
division is for boys eight years old and under,
the second division is for nine and ten year olds,
the third for boys eleven ’and twelve years old, a
fourth for boys thirteen and fourteen years old,
a fifth for ages fifteen and sixteen, and a sixth
division for all boys and men over sixteen years
old. The girls’ divisions begin at ten years old
and under, the second for eleven and twelve
years, a third division for thirteen and fourteen
year olds, a fourth group for girls fifteen and
sixteen years old, and a fifth classification for all
girls over sixteen years old. Approximately 258
boys and girls entered the summer tournaments.

The Millburn courts are not set aside exclu-
sively for the use of either boys or girls, but the
playground program provides for their use by the
two groups either at the same or at different
times. Although the Paddle Tennis and tennis
courts are considerably removed from the center
of control they require but little supervision due
to a self-administering registration system.

We find that Paddle Tennis is an excellent
build-up game for tennis, since it teaches the ten-
nis terms, counting, and the proper stroking and
where space and finances must be considered,
communities may well investigate the merits of

Paddle Tennis.

The Meek Inherit

the Mirth

By MABEL MADDEN

Supervisor, Community Activities
Cincinnati Public Recreation Commission

" F this hot spell don’t stop soon, I’ll just die,”
I said Mrs. Valerio to Mrs. Corrigan, across
the narrow lire escapes that separated the two
tenements. It was the beginning of another hot
night for the families in the over-crowded houses
along the street.

“That’s a point for our street,” said Mrs. Cor-
rigan, answering the questioning look on Mrs.
Valerio’s face. “When they shout loud like that
it means our team is ahead.”

Mrs. Corrigan was referring to the volley ball
game between the Senior Men of Adams Street
and May Street, being played on the street below.
For Adams Street was one of the twelve play
streets operated every night from six o’clock
until dark by the Recreation Commission. Look-
ing down from her third story window, Mrs.
Valerio scanned the street below blocked to traf-
lic and swarming with people. Next to the senior
men’s volley ball game was the kick ball game of
girls I4 to 20 years of age, and next to that the
game of long base played by boys 10 to 14. The
farther end of the street was pre-empted by the
younger children who were playing checkers,
jacks, O’Leary and circle games under the direc-
tion of an energetic young woman whose arm-
band attested the fact that she was the “play
leader.”

“Did you go down to listen to the gypsy story-
tellers tonight?” asked Mrs. Corrigan.

“No, I had to get supper for the Mister.
Wouldn’t he just Work overtime when I wanted

to hear the ending of the story about that man
Siegfried, or whatever his name is! Tell me what

192

  
  
  
   
    
 

The story ot a theatre which trav
els lrom street to street dispens

ing good cheer and lriendliness

happened after he killed the dragon and starte

covering the dwarf with gold? Did he marr
Brynhild P”

, 2 __ ,.
Courtesy Salem, M’ass. Park Commission

At little expense the Board cl: Pork Commis '
Salem, Massachusetts, has evolved a travelli
the basis ol: which is an obsolete horse-dro
and ladder truck. Scenery consists oi: one

  

.
\

THE MEEK INHERIT THE MIRTH

Mrs. Corrigan was referring to the young

women dressed as gypsies who visit the play
streets to tell stories to the youngsters. She did-
n’t know, however, that the gypsies had long ago
discovered their excuse for “bringing the chil-
dren,” and were arranging their stories to en-
tertain the mothers as well as the children.

“Tony didn’t want to work overtime, anyhow,
tonight,” continued Mrs. Valerio. “He was afraid
he’d miss the show.”

“The show!” exclaimed Mrs. Corrigan. “Is it
coming tonight?”

“Sure, the supervisor said so on the bull’tin
board.”

“Well, I’ll get in and finish my dishes. I don’t
want to miss it. You know, Mrs. Valerio, it’s
good to live in Cincinnati. The city does so much
to make it happier for the likes of us who’re too
poor to pay for things.”

 

ted in oil upon unbleached cotton and nailed

.0 the stage. There is adequate space, for the
g 28 feet long, In feet wide and I4 feet high.
Hdren present their plays on Community Night.

J.

193

In congested districts where play areas cannot
be provided for lack of space, municipal recre-
ation departments are Frequently forced to
devise some means of taking recreation to
the people in their own immediate neighbor-
hoods. Thus play streets, wandering gypsy
storytellers, street showers and similar institu-
tions have come into being in a number of
our large cities. Cincinnati, one of the cities
which has been most successful in utilizing the
play street plan, has also developed the travel-
ling theatre idea and made it an effective
feature of the city's recreation program. A de-
tailed account ot the Public Recreation Com-
mission's Play Street program, of which the
Travelling Theatre is a part, will be found in
the April, I932, issue oF RECREATION.

 

The Travelling Theatre Appears

Yes, there it was, the old Travelling Theatre
truck, rumbling slowly down the street, waiting
for the children to make way for it. Some of the
youngsters climbed up on the back and rode the
half block to the stopping place. The children
watched, wide-eyed, as the driver and his assist-
ant took wooden bucks from the truck, placed
them at regular intervals on the street, dropped
the sides and back of the truck, making a stage
18x18 in diameter. Two inch pipes were inserted

in the four corners of the floor, and on these was

suspended the cycloramic curtain, covering the
entire stage, as a backdrop. Footlights, head-
lights, and the front draw curtain were next in-
stalled and everything was ready for the show.

Mrs. Corrigan’s children were excited. They
ran around and found soap boxes for seats and
hurried back to find about three hundred children
sitting behind the ropes, on boxes, chairs, benches,
and on the ground. As many adults were stand-
ing in the rear.

The first performer was a singer, with a beau-
tiful soprano voice, the high kind the children
loved to hear. Then two children, in Dutch cos-
tumes did their “Hans and Hilda” song and
dance. Their wooden shoes made such a noise
that all the children giggled with glee. The one-
act comedy brought down rounds of applause
from the mothers and fathers, and everyone en-
joyed the instrumental trio and accordion 50105

which followed.
Then the musical director asked if everyone

didn’t want to join in a song. For fifteen minutes
the street resounded with the six or seven hun-

-.~

194 THE MEEK INHERIT THE MIRTH

dred voices singing popular songs, following the
words which were thrown on the screen by the
stereopticon machine. It was now almost nine
o’clock, and the director hastened to erect the
movie curtain. A two-reel comedy completed the
show, and the children started home to dream of
the funny man getting into all sorts of mix-ups
with his banged-up old automobile.

This, in brief, is a scene enacted every night
during the summer months in the congested dis-
tricts of Cincinnati. The Travelling Theatre was
designed and built by Will R. Reeves, then Di-
rector of Recreation, nine years ago. Since that
time, at least eight cities in the United States
have established similar theatres.

The theatre visits one play street each evening.
These streets are closed to traffic by order of the
City Manager.

The most difficult problem, of course, is to
provide a good program for each night of the
week. Since the Recreation Commission’s bud-
get is so limited it is impossible to allot any funds
to pay for the entertainment features. There-
fore, all performers must volunteer their services.
No one is paid. The programs are provided by
the various music, dancing and dramatic schools
and many interested individuals not connected
with any organization.

To secure performers it is necessary to have
some one call for them at their homes, take them
to the theatre and return them to their homes
after the performance. The Travelling Theatre
is, in this respect, an example of the fine things
that can be accomplished by community co-opera-
tion. The Service, Luncheon, and Civic Clubs of
the city are most generous in providing automo-
bile transportation. The Cincinnatus, Rotary, Ki-
wanis, Chamber of Commerce, Council of Jewish
Women, Ruth Lodge, Lions, Woman’s City Club,
Co-operative Club, and Civitan Club each agree
to give two weeks during the summer when the
members of their organizations take care of the

transportation for the theatre and gypsy story-
tellers.

When the theatre was iirst started the pro-
grams were devised for the entertainment of
children. It was found, however, that two-thirds
of the audiences were adults, mothers who were
cooped up in their two-room Hats all day, wash-
ing, ironing and taking care of a large brood of
children. They hadn’t the money to pay for ad-
mission to commercial theatres, and if they had

the money they couldn’t take with them very
small children. The fathers, after working in a
hot factory all day, came home to a hotter tene
ment room at night.

These, then, the fathers and mothers as well a
children, were the ones who brought their chairs
and benches and sat down to enjoy the fun of the
Travelling Theatre.

Many Other Activities

But as Mrs. Corrigan would say, “This is no
all the City of Cincinnati does to make it happie
for ‘the likes of us who are poor.’ ” Additional
playgrounds are being opened every year. Each
week of the summer season sees a special tour-
nament in progress, either jacks, hop scotch,
checkers, paddle tennis, O’Leary, baseball, volley
ball, swimming, quoits or sailboat racing. For it
brings out thousands of children to take part in
active games, while those who prefer drama and
folk dancing may have their part in the annual
playground pageant.

Work benches on each playground, completel
equipped with tools and material, provide oppor
tunities for all children to learn to use their hand
in making useful and artistic articles. A hand-
craft specialist visits each playground weekly to
assist embryonic wood carvers, painters, sculp-
tors, carpenters and ship builders. Visitors at
the playground handcraft exhibit marvel at th -‘
tine workmanship, ingenuity and originality of
many of the articles made by children under six-
teen years of age.

Then there are the playground orchestra an
band with their many concerts. What a thrill to
the children to play on the same stage from which
Paul Whiteman, Sousa, Henry Fillmore, and
other famous leaders have held their audience
spellbound! Nor are the older people overlooked,
for all the playgrounds are reserved for their us
after 5 :30 P. M. The older boys and girls hav
their tennis, baseball and volley ball leagues, whil
their fathers vie in horseshoe pitching. For thei
mothers there are the playground mothers’ clubs,
which in addition to many social activities, pro
vide leadership and chaperonage for the play
ground dances conducted at night.

Yes, we agree with Mrs. Corrigan that as long
as the Recreation Commission continues its'pro-
gressive efforts for the community it’s good to
live in Cincinnati!

i

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
   
  

The planting of flower gar-
 dens in honor of George Wash-
1ngton, a patriotic movement

sponsored by the United States
George \Vashington Bicentennial Commission, is
meeting everywhere with the greatest interest, but
with no greater enthusiasm anywhere than in the
schools and playground associations. Organized
groups whose garden activities each year con-
stitute the most stimulating activity of the spring
pnd summer months, are eagerly seizing this col-
orful opportunity to participate in the Bicenten-
nial celebration in a way which is as enjoyable
as it is fitting.

While it is not always possible or practicable
to reproduce accurately an old Colonial garden,
'as is done in some cases, it is for the most part
convenient to plant Colonial flowers, and it is in-
.eresting to discover that many of our favorite
.blooms trace their distinguished ancestry to the
flowers which were here to greet the iirst white
1Imen, or at least came to us through the genera-

ions from a carefully shielded single pot trans-
Eorted for sentimental reasons from the home

hores to the new land.

At this point in our garden history, school and
bark gardens bloom from spring to fall, the re-
wult of the directed industry of the school chil-
dren of America. One of the most interesting
evelopments which has come under the observa-
'on of the writer is that of Eastern High School
the District of Columbia, a pretentious garden
project which is this year dedicating its activities
to honoring the Father of His Country who
has himself such a successful and ardent gard-
mer and farmer. Eastern High School holds the
idistinction of being the first high school in Wash-
' ington to be provided with its own greenhouse
and garden. The greenhouse supplies plants for
iaboratory study, and it also shows, for the biol-
‘wy classes, the constant interrelation of animals
md plants. There are two main gardens—one of

l
Ii

Bicentennial Flower Gardens

By EMMA PERLEY LINCOLN

native plants just back of the

greenhouse and another, larger 
and more formal, to the front

and south. The latter is divided

into four smaller gardens, outlined with box and
evergreen privet. Each of these has a central
greensward surrounded by a border of peren-
nials. Two of the smaller gardens are planted
entirely with roses. Flagstone walks separate the
gardens and meet in the center at the charming
sun dial of Tennessee marble and bronze, de-
signed by Miss Kathryn Harris, which is a me-
morial to A. Margaret Merrill, a former teacher
who encouraged in the pupils a love for outdoor
life. The garden is surrounded by a fence with
trellised gates and arbors, over which climbing
plants are being trained.

It is planned to have all kinds of plants that
can live in Washington represented in the garden
or somewhere on the school grounds. Washing-
ton is the northern limit of such plants as the
magnolia and crepe myrtle, while it may be con-
sidered the southern limit for the more hardy
hemlocks and rhododendrons.

Eastern's garden is on a high terrace from
which the land falls away to the east, with an un-
broken view of the winding Anacostia River and
the wooded hills beyond. The vistas of sky and
water and wooded hillside lend special delight to
the garden and this view of the open country, so
unusual in a city school, is another decided ad-
vantage of Eastern’s remote location.

In all this magic transformation of a rough
expanse of muddy common into the present at-
tractive gardens Miss Lewanna Wilkins, the head
of the department of biology of the Eastern High
School, has received invaluable assistance from
B. Y. Morrison, horticulturist of the Department
of Agriculture, who suggested the plans for the
landscape gardening, and from C. B. Fitts, also
of the Department of Agriculture, who directed

(Continued on page 212)
195

A Mayor Looks at Recreation i

 

Courtesy Department of Parks, Seattle, Washington

It is a tribute to play leadership when boys reach
the point of making their own decisions amicably!

COME to you with some trepidation. Mine is
I the busy life of a busy man with the duties

and management of two drug stores and the

responsibilities of the Mayor of a city. I have
not had time to prepare properly the things you
should hear tonight, but the subject of recreation
has been outstanding in my mind for many years
and I am glad to give you the results of my
thinking.

More than five years ago there wandered into
our city a young man of gentle demeanor, soft of
speech and with southern accent; a man of quiet
and thoughtful attitude. He stopped, looked and
listened. No sound, no sight, no arresting inter-
ests. He looked again, and he wondered what in—
terested the people of Austin. He looked about
at the scenery; he found it rather engaging, beau-
tiful. The contour of the city being full of ups
and downs, was attractive especially to one who
came from the plains of the lower tier of states.
Nevertheless, what were the people of this city
doing with their spare time? He wondered and
dreamed.

196

By P. W. MCFADDEN
Mayor, City of Austin,
Texas

 
 
     
      
   
   
     
   
  
  
  

What can the recreation moveme

do for a city? What spiritual ou"

growths are the result? Some.I

impressive testimony is offere 

Almost a year later that same young man, why:
was Eswald Pettet of the National Recreati .
Association, gently knocked at the door of th
Council of the City of Austin, accompanied by d:
few men whom he had interested in the youn'
life of our city. 'So quiet and thoughtful, so u
obtrusive was he that we thought: “What is thi.
he is trying to put over?” He had enlisted 1'
rather aggressive, talkative man in his projec'
who came with words, big and little words, 10
and loud words. He interested the Council, at
rested their attention. Then the quiet young m _
arose and told what the possibilities here in Am;
tin might be. He t'old of his findings and thc
fruits of it, which he could almost see, were re
reation given a chance. It appealed to me—h'g;

  
  
   
   
   
  
     
   
   
    
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
    
  
   
  

et way of doing and seeing
5. He did not use any ag-
sive methods; he had no
- salesmanship. He re-
ded us as thinking people,
a he brought to our attention
. oject which he felt merited
r thought and action.

He handed me a copy of the
I CREATION magazine, and with
' w kindly words he left the
ncil chamber. I read the
zinc with interest; read it a second time with
l more interest. It' opened my eyes. I had
. :hed with a good many Austin citizens about
ching children how to play—the absurdity of
thing. But as I read this magazine and dwelt
.. the various lines of thOUght it' aroused, I
e to realize that there was more in it than the
. er or the casual observer would ever dream.
month by month I have read that magazine
'giously because I felt that from it a seed
uld be planted in my mind the fruits of which
uld be of great benefit to the City of Austin.

With Mr. Pettet’s help we secured a young
ctor of recreation. He came and began the
rk. Never did he feel quite at home, never did
feel settled, never did he reach the point: where
was ready to sign a contract. And when he
it was wise he withdrew. We appealed again
Mr. Pettet and he brought us Jimmie Garri-
, one of the finest gifts, in my judgment, any
n ever gave a city. Mr. Garrison sold himself
the Council the very first time he came before
. He was full of enthusiasm, full of “pep,”
w his stuff and was willing to tell it to others
ested. He was not, however, willing to bore
,1 with it if he was not interested. He im-
. d the Council favorably. After his with-
val the Council said: “That boy will do. He
something to bring us and we certainly will
‘ a recreation department.” In the meantime
d carried my magazine to others in the city
thought would be interested —Will Caswell,
’ Pope, Mrs. Pope. Seed was sown among
mber of others, which we hoped would later
fruit.
hen I was asked to speak to you tonight, I
to look around to find something to talk
'- - . I talk with boys and girls who have been
the recreation activities, with some of the
~. hers and fathers, and more and more it was
in upon me that there was something being

l
!

At the District Conference held
last April in Austin, Texas, Mayor
McFadden addressed the recrea-
tion workers in attendance. His
account of the way in which the
recreation program in Austin had
been inaugurated and had grown,
and his analysis of the values in-
volved for his city, will be of in-
terest both to private citizens and
to public officials who are seeking
to promote similar programs.

A MAYOR LOOKS AT RECREATION 197

created in Austin which was
bigger and better, a finer and
nobler thing than we had ex-
pected from recreation.

Some of the people who do
not understand think that the
whole aim and purpose of rec—
reation is physical development.
That is what mother thinks
when she sends her boy to the
recreation field. There is more
than this. It is fine for that boy
to make good contacts, and well directed play
does a spendid thing for him. It will develop his
body, and that will help him develop his mind.
But in these later days I have been thinking there
is a result arising from these activities that is far
beyond mere physical development. Fine as that
is, and necessary and worth-while as it is, there is
something higher and more worth while that is
coming out of it, and that is what I want to talk
to you about.

May I venture to turn my speech to the spirit-
ual side'of recreation? As you may have implied
from what I have said, I dwell on the spiritual
side of life, and I see a little beyond that which the
casual observer would see. The spiritual outcrops
of recreation are evident over our whole city. If
I may use a term that brings us back to earth
again, these seeds have been planted, these sprouts
have come up, the shrub and bush and tree have
grown and developed; they have vigor, strength
and durability. The blossom and bloom of the
thing are right before us day by day.

When we see these blossoms they are beautiful,
entrancing, engaging. I want to tell you some-
thing about them. They are manifest to you who
are recreation workers; you have been looking
for them, and they are the things that are hidden
behind your effort. You have seen them, you
knew they were coming, but it' was a revelation
to me; I was not looking for them.

' I had known boys and girls on the school play-
grounds; dominant, rude, they dictated every-
thing and would not play the game unless it was
played their way. Now there is fairness, gentle-
ness, consideration. These are some of the fruits
that we know are the spiritual fruits coming out
of these fine plants that you have planted and are
nurturing. Day by day as I question our boys and
girls, I see them, and our friends are beginning
to see them and are beginning to talk about them.

198 A MAYOR LOOKS AT RECREATION

Ambitlon. You may not think this is Spiritual
but it is. Mental activities that bring about ambi-
tion are the same activities which bring about
spiritual values, courage and other attributes.
They are ambitions, of course. I just want to re-
call to your mind the origin of the word “ambi-
tion.” It means “going about.” In former times
ambition was the activity of the man who went
about seeking votes. Not so now. Ambition now
is the desire deep down in your soul for superi-
ority, worth-whileness. That is the ambition
which I am seeing manifest in boys and girls-
the ambition to excel, to be superior, to be worthy.

Tolerance. I spoke of this a while ago. I re-
member the first time I went out to see conditions
in our city. We found a group of boys playing
ball, and it was the noisiest group I have ever
seen. They could not play for wrangling; they
did not know how to play. Just the other day I
happened down at Pease Park, and there was a
group of boys playing ball. Do you know, there
was not a sound, no noise, no one running the
thing? Every boy knew what he should do and
was in his place. I said, “There is just one of the
things that has come out of this directed play.”

Reverence. One of the finest attributes-and I
see it now and again—is reverence. In the days
of my bringing up boys did not have a great deal
of respect for elders, and I see that reverence is
being shown more and more in the boys and girls
of today. I am superintendent of a Sunday School,
and it has been my effort and prayer to make our
boys and girls respect the House of God. I have
impressed them with the fact that they must have
a reverend manner in the House of God. I see
the fine, wholesome spirit of reverence that is
coming into our boys and girls from this effort
you are making.

Patience. It is not natural for children to be
patient. But do you know, it is being demon-
strat'ed more and more day by day? “I call upon
each one of you to exercise yourselves to build
up this fine spiritual attribute of active patience.

Obedience. When :I spoke to my partner about
this he said: “Why, that is not a spiritual develop-
ment.” But it is. Obedience is, spiritual if it is
anything. It is the result of patient teaching and
nurture and develOpm‘ent from the outside. If
our citizens are going. to_be worth while citizens,
it is going to rest largely with you“ people.‘_ Boys
and girls 'must 'be'taught obedience to law, obedi-
ence to man, .obedien,cé.to",the rules laid down for

   
 
 
  
  
   
   
  

the game they are_playing. I want you to be on r
the lookout for the spiritual side of your attain-
ment. It is a manifestation of this activity yo
are engaged in.

Courage. And now here is the very rose of th
whole group of flowerings I have been talkin ,
about. Courage is the finest attribute of any hu- A
man being. It has been the prayer of my life tha '
when the testing time comes I may have courage.

Consciousness of power. This is one of th
things you must develop in your boys and girls.
Recognize it in the activity. When you see a ho
showing fine self-control give'him every chance
to become conscious of his power. You can direct
his activities on the playground. It is to be hoped ‘
that his power will be directed in the right direc—
tion. This is not your responsibility, but it is your
responsibility to make him conscious of his power. ‘

I think you are in a very great work. I think
you are serving not only your generation but you .
are serving your God when you do what you can.
to bring about these fine spiritual attainments that
I have brought to your attention. ‘

I want to say one more word of“ encourage-‘
ment. You may not get your reward here, but
you will get it in the consciousness of knowingl
you have done what you could for the boys and 3
girls of this generation. 5

     
    

3i
, l

Increasingly mayors and public officials are °'
realizing the importance of recreation as a vital I
force in community life and are urging increased l
facilities and programs. Particularly at a time
when unemployment'is resulting in millions of .
hours of enforced leisure do these ofhcials feel
that playground activities for children- should
continue and a program for adults should receiveI
special emphasis.

Testimony from one city is impressive. The'
1931 report of the Oak Park, Illinois, Playground 3
Board states: “The argument seems to be not:
Can we afford recreation, but: Can we afford to]
be without it. It is a gratifying fact that the gen-
eral sentiment of Oak Park residents during the 
depression has been one of unquestioning ac-
Ceptance of the-necessity for supervised play- .I
grounds. A resident stated at a recent meeting of t.
taxpayers that he did not see how the community 
could function at a11_.in the present condition of l
unemployment unless it had playgrounds, parks *7
and libraries.” . r  " i

 

"Whoopie" Play Boats

By ARTHUR LELAND

Supervisor Recreation, NeWport, Rhode Island

grounds has a very fine
bathing beach in
l he harbor where the wa-
r is usually quite still.
0 add to the enjoyment
f the bathers here, last
ear we designed some
lay boats, very narrow
nd “cranky” and pat—
rned somewhat after a
ississippi bateau. The
rst boat we named
‘W hoopie,” the second,
Ann Howe.”

The boats, which are
ess than eight feet long,
re not intended to be
'ther safe or seaworthy,
he idea being to make
- em as “cranky” as pos-
ible in order to teach the art of balance. Only
« ose who have demonstrated their ability to
vim are allowed to use these miniature canoes
rhich will hold two grown pe0ple if they trim
‘ ip and preserve perfect balance. As many as
ur children under fifteen can be very comfort-
bly accommo-
: ted. The canoe
. so small and
ght that it can
slipped into
e rumble seat
f a Ford road-

I“.

 
  
   
   
 
 
   
  
 
  
    
 
  
   
  
   
 
     
  
  

' . NE of the Newport play-

They are not hard
to make, and the
cost is emell for
the amount of fun
they provide.

  
   

It's a temperamental plaything and its
balance is precarious! But. what fun!

\Ve use the canoes for canoe
tilting at our swimming meets.

We have one boy whose
sense of balance is so
well developed that it
has been found impossi-
ble for any one of his
size to tip him out of the
canoe when he is stand-
ing up in a tilting tour-
nament. His canoe has
been filled with water
many times, but he has
never been knocked out
of it.

A local boat builder
made two more play
boats for us this spring
at $20 each. Any car-
penter or handy boy can
build one.

The two sides (Figure I) are first assembled
on the center brace (Figure 2). The ends are
then put in (Figure 3). The bottom is then se-
cured to the ends and sides; to do this, place bot-

tom board on two wooden horses and have two
( Continued on page 212)

77%;

WHOOPIE; 1230A?
ART HUR LKLAND

ktnel ecepe , Aviehitlet
NEW Don't “Home ISLAND

 

Glimpses 0F New Topeka Rose Garden

Courtesy American City

200

 

A Rose 'Garden Memorial

l
‘ HE most notable feature
T of the park system of
Topeka, Kansas,
(which comprises 400 acres
in twenty-two different
parks), is the municipal rose garden. Covering
an area of nine acres, this rose garden is one of
the largest municipally owned gardens of the
kind in the United States, and one of the most
completely equipped, with pergola, sun dial, lily
pool, bird houses, bird baths, Hoodlights and other
garden accessories.

The rose garden is located in the central sec-
tion of a I6o—acre park where the land, until its
development, was in the condition in which the
buffalo had left it. The sod was removed, the
land broken up, graded and fertilized, paths of
both blue grass and crushed rock were built, the
lily pool, 75 by 30 feet, was constructed and filled,
a complete underground water system was in-
stalled, all accessories were in place and the gar-
den thrown open to the public with 9,000 rose
bushes in bloom, all within sixty days “from the
eginning.

l

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
  

A Memorial Garden
The rose garden was built entirely by private
bscription and was presented to the city in
emory of the recently deceased Superintendent
f Parks, E. F. A. Reinisch, who had devoted
hirty years of his life to the building of the
opeka park system and who shortly before his
death had staked out over four acres for a rose
arden. The city accepted the rose garden under
he condition that it should be forever maintained
irough its park commission and that the area of
he garden should be enlarged as the public should
. emand. Plans have been completed for the plant-
ng of 7,000 more roses with the coming of spring.

By I. D. GRAHAM
President, Kansas Associated Garden Clubs

The story of a municipal rose garden
financed by popular subscription.

Facing the main entrance
and about 75 feet distant
from the portals, there lies
a gigantic boulder, weigh-
ing 12 tons, which had been
transported to the garden as a memorial stone and
which bears a bronze tablet inscribed to the mem-
ory of Mr. Reinisch in expression of apprecia-
tion of his untiring service to his city.

The area devoted to roses in this park is divided
into a rose test garden and a display garden. The
test garden is enclosed by a high steel wire fence
with proper gates under lock. The display garden
is surrounded by a trellis fence of the same char-
acter for pillar roses, and inner lines of steel posts
with dr00ping chains between for the ramblers.
The test garden is separated from the display
garden by the pergola with forty stately columns,
each 14 feet in height, rising from a concrete
platform which affords a view of the entire area
of both test and display gardens as well as much
of the surrounding park.

Landscaping and Lighting
The display garden has three entrances, the
main one to the east being composed of three
steps rising from a lower level to that of the
garden and built of cement. This entrance plat-
form is surmounted by six stately columns of
brick and cut stone, each topped with a bronze
lantern, with beautiful iron grilles between the
outer columns. In front of this entrance stands a
marvelously designed sun dial, the creation and

gift of James M. Challiss of Atchison.
Fronting this main entrance to the display gar-
den is a previously planted peony garden of ap-
proximately two acres which is now included in

the rose garden, and to the west of the pergola
(Continued on page 213)

201

.”‘—‘5 __——*

Drama Comes to the Playground

 

“The Gifts” was presented in Salisbury, Connect-
iCut, against a background of blooming spirea.

HIS summer, if last year’s experience may

be considered a criterion, will see drama

finding expression in festivals, pageants
and, less ambitiously, in little plays presented
in quiet corners of the playgrounds.

Bloomfield Presents!

Drama took its place on the playgrounds of
Bloomfield, New Jersey, last summer in some-
what the manner of those rare and charming
people who, on short acquaintance, are one’s
friends forever. It began with a tentative in-
troduction of very, very simple plays that
could be given in a secluded corner. It ended
with a tournament in which eight of the town’s
playgrounds presented well staged, well acted
little dramas. And at the end of the season,
in a secluded spot on one of the new grounds,
were the bowl-shaped outlines of a Children’s
Playground Theatre, the huge tiles for exits
and entrances already in place and concrete
hardening in the forms that defined the steps
on which future audiences will sit.

Such tremendous strides on the part of
drama, in one season, imply splendid coopera-
tion, willingness to take on an extra task, and

202

  
  
   
    
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  

No playground program
is well-rounded if it does '
not include drama in one

of its many forms.

sufficient faith in drama’s value to give it an
actual home, a real playground theatre.

As the new theatre could not be completed
in time for the tournament, a playhouse was
improvised in a shady place on one of the
school grounds. Misprint cretonne, making an
effective back drop and wings, turned an other-
wise unimportant blot of shadows into a fas-
cinating spot to which children from all over
the town gravitated early in the afternoon
for the simplest trappings of the theatre hav
a way of promising things-that no one would
care to miss, certainly not a ten-year-old with
a whole August afternoon in his pocket.

The actors arrived by carloads—there wer
about fifty of them—donned their costumes i
the school basement and then, with the pros
pect of their first formally presented play be—
fore them, strolled and chattered or foun
places to sit until the time for their appear—
ance arrived. Everyone was excited and
happy; no one nervous or self-conscious. True
there was to be an award of a silver cup which
inspired eagerness and lent zest to the occasion
but did not spoil an atmosphere of pride and
expectation. Everyone wasn’t lucky enough d
to get a part, as the boy who played the do J
in “Rip Van Winkle” testified, and it was a ‘
fine thing just to be in a play. This lad wa '
too young to take the responsibility involved 

 

DRAMA COMES TO THE PLAYGROUND 203

in portraying human characters but he could
learn his cues to bark, and any boy knows
how a dog should behave to his master, even
under the peculiar circumstances that attended
Rip.

The appearance of the “curtain” began the
‘ tournament. A living curtain made‘ of five or

I six little girls holding sheets across their ex—

tended arms shut off the stage while properties
were put in place. Although many of the
children had never appeared in plays before
this summer, the eight little plays followed
one another without a hitch. Settings were
constructed with the aid of the directors, while
costumes made from inexpensive materials or
cast—offs from home added to the attractiveness
of the presentations, and, as always, enabled
the children to assume their characters with
ease. Most of the plays were good dramatiza-
tions of familiar stories and whenever liberties
were taken with the time—honored plots there
were murmurs of surprise or disapproval from
the youthful audience which seemed to prefer
its fairy tales without variations. The children
were deeply interested in seeing their friends
appear and were serious in their enjoyment
of the plays. "Hansel and Gretel,” a puppet
play from A Book of Marionette Plays by Anne
Stoddard and Tony Sarg, won the cup.

But the important outcome was the fact that
among playground activities in Bloomfield,
drama, with all that it has to offer of happy
cooperation and personal development, has
taken a definite place. The beautiful little
theatre which is emerging day by day is a
promise of permanence; but anyone who saw
the child—actors“ and the child-audience on the
afternoon of the tournament knows that even
if the beauty and convenience of the theatre
were denied them there will never be a day
during playground season when there will not
be a group somewhere busy rehearsing or
working on a piece of scenery or improvising
a costume.

The following plays were presented “March-
ing Home,” “Red Riding Hood,” “Abe’s First
Fish,” “Rip Van Winkle,” “Red Shoes,” “Han-
sel and Gretel,” “Enchanted Princess,” “The
Soap Box Orator.” “Red Riding Hood” and
“Rip Van Winkle,” both included in A Book of
Marionette Plays, received honorable mention.

A Play Festival in a Small Community

In Salisbury, Connecticut, the fourth annual
play festival held last summer set the stage for

the introduction of drama. The festival, pre-
sented under the auspices of the Salisbury Recre-
ation Committee, was given on the spacious lawn
of the Girls’ Friendly Club in Lakeville, one of
the six villages forming a part of the recreation
area of the Town of Salisbury. Four hundred
children took part under the direction of \Vil-
bert R. Hemmerly, Superintendent of Recrea-
tion. A New York artist who is a member of
the Recreation Committee secured the cos-
tumes which were unusually effective and gave
additional charm to the spectacle.

The pageant told in a simple and interesting
manner the contributions that recreation
makes to the people of a community and gave
many opportunities for demonstrations of typ-
ical playground and adult activities. The pro-
logue consisted of the entrance of Community
attended by her guardians—the Home, School
and Church. She prepared to hold open court
for all who seek redress. In the three episodes
that followed, the spirits of Childhood, Youth
and Leisure appeared before Community suing
for opportunities for the children, youths and
adults of the city. Mass demonstrations of
activities for children and older boys and girls,
as well as adults, were given in each episode,
and the spectacle of several hundred children
engaged in games, folk dances and sports was
most impressive.

One of the most charming scenes was the pan-
tomime used to demonstrate adult participation
in drama. “A Day at Nottingham” was pre-
sented, showing the shepherds, milkmaids and
haymakers on their way to work in the morn-
ing. Robin Hood and his band appear. A
company of venders pass by on their way to
the fair, and the pretty scene reaches its
height when the King and his train visit the
village. As twilight falls on Nottingham, the
fairies appear. In the finale, Childhood, Youth
and Leisure bring their gifts to the community
and receive the assurance that they will ever
be cherished for the happiness they have
brought to the people.

In June, 1932, “In the Hearts of His Country-
men,” a Bicentennial play issued by Community
Drama Service of the N. R. A., was presented in
Salisbury, proving highly successful. Music was
provided by the local fife and drum corps, and a
victrola. Effective colonial costumes were pro-

duced at a cost of about $50.

A Clean-Up and General Proficiency Campaign

AUNCHED last summer as a
L part of the playground
program, our clean-up
campaign has had more to do
with securing the good will of
the neighbors than any other
single factor. Mr. Thomas
Cook, Honorary Secretary of
the Playgrounds Commission,
who initiated the plan, vision-
ed not only cleaner grounds
but their beautification through
the planting of flowers and
sodding of grass. It was his
belief that as far as possible
the children should do the
work themselves. Last sum-
mer’s experiment proved the
boys and girls to be interested,
willing and quite capable un-
der good leadership of assist-
ing in a large part of the work.
Two intensive campaigns
were conducted on a competi-
tive basis between the seven-
teen playgrounds. Score sheets
covering every phase of the
program were issued to all the
supervisors stating clearly what
was expected. Many novel
schemes were initiated, barrel
loads of refuse were removed,

and all possible sources of danger from glass,
stones, wire or faulty apparatus were eliminated.
Mr. Cook and other members of the Playgrounds

By J. J. SYME

Superintendent of Recreation

Hamilton, Canada

 

He has donned working clothes and is
doing his share in the clean-up campaign!

sible) .

Commission made constant tours of inspection

and the work went on uninterruptedly. Mr. Cook
personally gave over one hundred individual .
prizes. A suitable shield has been obtained which
will be awarded annually to the ground winning

future campaigns.

The contest was arranged not only to stimulate
interest in making the playgrounds attractive but

204

I. Floors clean.
2. Tile, marble and porcelain ware clean; fre
from discoloring.

' 3. Walls clean.
4. Major repairs reported.

also to encourage the inclu-
sion of special activities and
the working out of an active
program which would educate
the public and keep them in
touch with the program. While
a great deal of work was in-
volved along the line of record
keeping, the results more than
justified the efforts put forth.

 

Scoring System
The scoring system was as
follows:

Grounds
1. Clear of paper and other
litter, especially in corners.

2. N 0 broken glass, stones,
wire or similar sources of
injury.

3. Clear of perishable refuse,
weeds, etc.

4. Absence of any other un-
sanitary condition.

5. Proper use of the appa-
ratus.

6. All minor repairs made.

7. Necessary major repairs
reported.

8. All equipment in opera-
tion.

9. Sand box clean (and sand moist where pos-

IO. Accidents kept at a minimum.

Buildings

(Continued on page 214)

 

' g per meal.

 

Last year the children
of the Smith Memorial
Playgrounds in Philadel-
phia enjoyed their first
camp when a farm of one hundred acres at
I Chalfont was leased and a small but charm-
ingly designed old house with a large living
room, fireplace and screened porches became
headquarters for all groups. The old hay barn,
cleaned and repaired for dormitory use, accom-
modated thirty-six cots. All preparatory work
was done by older boys under the leadership
of a staff member. The plan was followed of
taking as many different children as possible
for a two-day period and other still larger
groups for all day picnics. With the objects
’of securing the carry-over values accruing
from intimate acquaintance and shared ex-
periences between play leader and child, it was
decided not to follow the usual plan of having
a corps of counselors at camp but to arrange
to release a play leader from every playground
to accompany the group. As three playgrounds
were generally represented on each camping
trip, play leaders as well as children had the
I opportunity to become better acquainted. The
camp’s staff was composed of one full time
. worker at camp and one worker in town to

A New
Camp

, , register groups, arrange transportation and do

home visiting. A total of 565 camp visits were
made by 422 day children. The children, when
[able to, made a contribution which covered
. all the cost of their food which averaged $.15
Other expenses were met by the
Estate and from membership dues.

at

Colonel and Mrs. Ray-
mond Robins of Her-

nando County, Florida,

have deeded to the Fed-
eral Government Chinsegut Hill, their estate
of 2,000 acres of timber land, farms, farm
buildings and groves. They are retaining only!
their beautiful ante-bellum home and 15 acres
of lawn and gardens. This will later be given

A Gift of
Rare Beauty

Agricultural experiments of
all kinds will be carried on, and here the birds
of the nation will lind a haven in the wooded

the government.

valleys of the estate, for a bird sanctuary is to
The project
will be known as the “Chinsegut Hill Migra-

be maintained on a large scale.

tory Bird Sactuary of Hernando County.”

The Woman’s City
Club, of Kansas City, has
assumed responsibility for
raising $5000 with which
to provide leadership for ten or twelve play-
grounds which will be operated this year fol-
lowing a two-year cessation of playground
activities. These playgrounds will be located
in the most congested section of the city
where there are 25,000 children. The Board of

Education will contribute the services of
Alfred 0. Anderson, Director of Health and
Physical Education in the Schools, who will
serve as general supervisor of the playgrounds.

205

The Womans’ City
Club to the Rescue!

 

206

HAROLD Q. WHITE
On June 3rd Harold Q. White, Superin-

tendent of Recreation of Mount Vernon,
New York, died after a brief illness.

For a number of years Mr. White had
served as college coach in Michigan, but be-
coming interested in the recreation movement

he took the course in the National Recrea-
tion School in 1927-28. Later he served as
Assistant Superintendent of Recreation in
Houston, Texas. In February, 1930, he took
up his work in Mount Vernon. In his two
years of service he made a deep impression
on the community and laid the foundation
for a comprehensive recreation program.
The Mount Vernon Argus, commenting
editorially, states:

“Harold Q. White was 'more than a paid
employee of the City of Mount Vernon; he
was a man with a full heart in his job. No
native son could have had a greater personal
interest in the welfare of Mount Vernon
than did Mr. White, and we know that he
sacrificed his own advancement to better
paying positions in order to remain here.

“The City of Mount Vernon owes this
man a debt of gratitude. His path was not
always rosy. A man in his position must
always be prepared for political interference,
but that did not concern him nor did it in-
terfere with his work.”

Mr. White gave his whole-hearted devo-
tion to the recreation movement and to the
last his thought was of the boys and girls

he was serving and by whom he was greatly
beloved.

 

W ORLU AT PLA Y

Tree Planting Day at Oglebay Park—May
15th marked the dedication of Washington
memorial tree plantings at Oglebay Park,-
Wheeling, West Virginia, and also the first
annual Ohio Valley Arbor Day celebration.
Early in the morning over 150 hikers went on
a bird walk through the park. In the afternoon
came a concert by the Triadelphia District
high school band, followed by a processional
and a musical program. 'Each child present
was given a small living tree, the gift of Cris-
pin Oglebay for planting at his home or else-
where, and there was a tree planting ceremony
and dedication. The Honorable Martin L.
Davey of Kent, Ohio, was the main speaker at
the dedication. The day marked the opening,
for the first time this season, of the park’s
nature museum.

Weschester County’s Recreation Report.—
The 1931 report of the Westchester County,
New York, Recreation Commission, which
since its organization has been building up a
program of art, music and drama, proves how
effectively such activites may be fostered in a
municipal recreation program. The report
deals specifically with the expansion of the
work done by the Westchester Choral Society
in the presentation of the annual County
music festival; with the educational work car—
ried on in cooperation with the public schools
in the realm of choral, orchestra and band en-
sembles of school children, culminating in the
presentation of a junior music festival; with
the choral work for the Negro citizens cli—
maxed with the spring song jubilee; with the
county-wide activity in amateur drama leading
to the presentation of an annual drama tourna-
ment, and with the institution of classes in the
dance, which on June 3rd culminated in the
first Westchester County festival of the dance.
The report also tells of the rapid expansion of
the Workshop comprising twenty—three de-
partments of the arts and crafts. Many other
activities of the Commission are described——
the development of playground programs, the
county-wide program of athletics, the Trails
Association, the camps maintained for boys
and girls and for mothers, and the rapidly in—
creasing use of the County’s center which is
housing many of the County’s civic, educa-
tional and recreational activities. A copy of
the report may be secured from the Recreation

Commission, County Office Building, White
Plains.

 

Playground Drama in Philadelphia.—Phil-
adelphia’s playground drama program was in-
augurated in 1930 by the Bureau of Recreation
in cooperation with the Playgrounds Associa-
tion, which has provided the services of a spe-
cial drama supervisor. Since that date 167
plays have been produced with over 2,000
participants and always with capacity audi-
ences. A children’s theater has been organized
with groups of from 25 to 65 in 18 recreation
centers. Each center has formed at least three
dramatic clubs, some as many as five, with
members ranging in age from eight to sixty
years. A theater workshop has been opened
in a school and costumes designed and made.
Two drama tournaments have been held—the
hrst in 1930 for seniors and juniors with 265
participants in 35 plays, and a second in the
spring of 1932 for seniors, juniors and children,
with 300 participants in 46 plays. This year’s
tournament has shown a great advance in the
selection and presentation of plays and a
marked increase in interest. Training classes
for drama directors and teachers have been
conducted every Saturday morning and chil-
dren’s classes in creative drama and rhythms
have been carried on every afternoon in differ-
ent centers.

Model Boat Racing by Adults—There is a
group of men in Detroit, Michigan, many of
them salt water sailors, all of them Cornish-
men and most of them unemployed, who are
:meeting every Saturday afternoon at Bell
Isle to sail the model yachts which they have
.made in their free time. These men are bring-
ing to Detroit a sport very popular in England.
The racing rules are few. No boat of over
30 inches may be used and the length of the
tacking pole must not exceed 6 feet. Each
vessel has a crew of two men, one of whom
launches the craft while the other tacks it as it
nears the side of the pool.

  
 

A Strangers Club Does Its Bit—For a num-
ber of years Birmingham, Alabama, has had a
successful Strangers Club fostered by the Park
land Recreation Board. This particular group
|is now sponsoring leisure time activities for
-the unemployed and has organized five groups
lLof handcraft enthusiasts. In cooperation with
‘the Park and Recreation Board and the Church
‘ IOf the Advent, the club is providing a centrally
'located and comfortably equipped place where
classes are conducted in basket weaving, dec-

l

WORLD AT PLAY

Performance
Counts .'

American Devices are ruggedly constructed
—and designed to giVe strength. durability
and safety.

Send today for our new illustrated catalog
showing a complete array of Playground
Equipment. Our service department is at
your disposal.

AMERICAN PLAYGROUND DEVICE Co.
ANDERSON. INDIANA

 

SUPPLY SERVICE

In Leather. Metal. Celluloid. Wood Carving. Batik.
Rope and Cordage: also Primitive Indian Crafts
for the Educational. Recreational and Occupational

Fields.
HAN DICRAFT MANUAL

300 Projects. 400 Illustrations
Price $1.00 Paper, $2.00 Cloth

Sent on Approval Price List on Request

mm SPECla-LT‘ES
_ ecsr'EWiil’siiB‘dZ'o

COLORADO smxmm

orating, photograph tinting, making of hooked
rugs and other articles, and china and glass
painting.

Oak Park Believes in Playgrounds !——“The
argument seems to be not: Can we afford rec-
reation, but: Can we afford to be without 1t.
It is a gratifying fact that the general senti-
ment of Oak Park residents during the depres-
sion has been one of unquestioning acceptance
of the necessity for supervised playgrounds.
A resident stated at a recent meeting of tax-
payers that he did not see how the community
could function at all in the present condition

207

 

 

208 WORLD AT PLAY

 

GEORGE EASTMAN
Born July 12, 1854—Died March 14, 1932.

EORGB EASTMAN sent his first contribution
G to the National Recreation Association in
1910. For more than twenty years he was

a supporter of the national recreation movement.
From his own personal experience as a workman,
totaling figures eleven hours a day, he came to see
the need for recreation and the place for music,

drama, and the wise use“of leisure in a well or-
dered life.

Through the Eastman School of Music and in
many other ways Mr. Eastman gave of his per-
sonal thought and influence as well as his money
to advance recreational life in America. Even
with all the great responsibilities which he carried
he found time for recreation in his own life. He
was very clear that “what we do in our working
hours determines what we have in this world, but

what we do in our play hours determines what
we are.”

Mr. Eastman’s hours of recreation found him
hunting, fishing, camping. He was particularly
fond of cooking. The movement for a more per-
manently satisfying plane of living in America
holds much to the life and work of George
Eastman.

 

 

of unemployment unless it had playgrounds,
parks and libraries. A survey made by the
Commissioner of Public \Vorks this year
shows that with the present population of
631130, or l6,(D0 families, in Oak Park, and a
playground appropriation of $43,000 for 1931,

the cost of playground maintenance was $0 ‘

a month; $0.68 a year per capita or $0. A.
month and $2.68 a year per family. \Vhen c ' .
compares these figures with the amount 5 ‘ 1
on commercial recreation, it is obvious that
average family would pay as much as the; l
tire amount it contributes to municipal rec .
tion in one year for a single visit to a mo ' -
picture theater. This is a period when ev 1
economy should be made in recreational e I 1
penditures ; but it is, too, a time when the ‘ !
sire for public retrenchment must be temp *
with consideration for the greater public
fare.”——Extract from annual report of P1 '

ground Board, Oak Park, Illinois.

|

A Local Group Organizes a Playgroun "
At a meeting of the citizens of the northeast '
section of the City of York, Pennsylvania, l
April 15, 1931, the Hudson Street Recrea '
Center was organized with a president, sec '
tary, treasurer and executive committee. 0
group selected a site for a playground and c 
cided to charge a membership fee of 25 c - 
in order to secure sufficient funds to be ,g
clearing the ground. On June 11th the pl I
ground was ofiicially opened with a flag rais’
and a parade. Last year the organization h
a membership of 242 and funds received duri
the year amounted to approximately r
The ground has been equipped and a deli '
program of activities has been conducted ' I).
the advice and help of the Department
Recreation.

Putting It Up to the Tennis Players !— ' ‘
Los Angeles, California, Playground and R. r
reation Department, through questionnai I
circulated among the users of municipal ten ‘ o
courts, is putting it up to the players to deci !
whether by the payment of a small fee th ’
will make it possible to reserve the courts
advance on week-ends and holidays or
continue the present system of non paym I
of fees which usually involves a long wait f '
their use. In spite of the construction of ma ‘
new courts, there is a crowded condition on t
tennis courts, particularly on Saturdays, 8'
days and holidays resulting in long waits f 1
many players before getting on the courts. '. .
serve the interests of the larger number of t
nis players, the Department is willing to ‘
guided by the wishes of public court patro ,

q I
l

 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  

omen of Detroit Again Have Their Day!
April 8th the Department of Recreation
roit, Michigan, presented the tenth an-
' demonstration of senior women’s activi-
I'hen 1,500 women took part in a program
h included the following: mass singing;
'enics and dance; a balloon drill; Rus-
Irish, Polish, Dutch and Italian dances;
a dance exhibition; combination drill; a
ing drill; mass games, and flag relay
. This annual demonstration has come to

of the outstanding events of Detroit’s
tion program greatly anticipated by the

Recreation Program for Girls.—The rec-
11 program for girls and young women
cted by the Department of Community
tion of East Chicago, Indiana, has made
. raging progress. During the past winter
teams of girls—nine white and six col-
each in a separate league, played basket-
The bowling league for women has also
very popular. Storytelling hours at the
ry have had a larger attendance this year
in any previous period. One of the story-
1 clubs, composed of junior and senior
has been engaged in constructing pup-
and puppet plays will be given at each
e four libraries.
om April 24th to 30th Girl’s W'eek was
rated with the following program: Sun-
Girl’s Day in Church; Monday, Girl’s Day
Her Books; Tuesday, Girl’s Day at Home
of games to be played in the home ap-
d in the newspapers) ; Wednesday, Girl’s
~ of Recreation; Thursday, Girl’s Day with
Mother; Friday, Girl’s Day of Visits
 to Hull House) ; Saturday, Girl’s Day of
tainment.
Novel Checker Tournament—The Lynch-
, Virginia, Department of Recreation and
grounds recently conducted a checker
ment for men. Many of the business
of the city took part in the contest com-
, for the certificate which was the award.
boards and checkers were issued by the
tment. The playing was done at home,
- iness offices or on the playgrounds,
. being turned into the Department’s
the day after the games were played.
'nner kept the board until he was noti-
om he was to play next. The tourna-
proved most successful.

WORLD AT PLA Y

Read Special Offer!

CODEBALL

ON THE GREEN
The game with a kick in it

Show this ad to a responsible Sport-
ing Goods Dealer in your locality and
tell him to write us at once for in-
formation as to how we will enable
him to donate a Codeball on the
Green set to you gratis in behalf of
your community.

Regulation course equipment consisting of

14 durable. high-class Metallic Bowls. 14

poles and pennants. 28 Kickofi‘s. Official
Rules. and one dozen Ofiicial Balls.

Sanction and adopted by the A. A. U.,
as National Sports, 1929.

Detailed information and course
charts cheerfully sent on request.

Bodehall company of America

11 So. LaSalle Street Chicago. Ill.

 

 

210 A HOME FOR HOBBIES

  

grounds Inviting

with Louden Playground Equip-
ment—the line that offers you an
endless variety of alluring devices.
A wide range of new low prices
will enable you to keep within
your budget without cheating the
youngsters!

The complete Louder: Catalog
is yours for the asking.
Send for it today.

LOUDEN

J. E. PORTER CORP. pLAYGROUND

H8 Broadway EQUIPMENT

Ottawa, Illinois

Make Your Play-

MODEL BOAT MAKING
Popular Playground Activity

17 inch California redwood solid hull
model, stands 26” high. Complete with
sails and all other parts including brass
fittings $4.50 per doz. Postage extra.

Other sizes available up to 36 inches. All fast sail-

ing models for your own assembling and finishing.
Also motor speedboat kits.

Send for catalog of handicraft supplies

@J/owcm/zlm

739 BOYLSTON STREET BOSTON. MASS. I

Playgrounds in Mamaroneck.—Mamaron-
eck, New York, whose beautiful municipal
park overlooks Long Island Sound, last sum-
mer conducted two playgrounds with varied
activities. For the adults there were baseball,
archery, tennis, swimming and quoits with the
local Lions Club sponsoring a number of tour-
naments. In addition to handcraft, athletics
and sportsfor the ‘younger members of the
community, drama played an important part.
At the Harbor Island playground a story fes-
tival developed by the play leaders and the

 

- their values, but for real recreation, give

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
   

ROBERT H. WITT

The recreation movement has lost one of
its pioneers in the death of Robert H. Witt
who served as Director of the Lapham Park
Social Center of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for

twenty years, having been in charge of the
same center since the day of its organiza-
tion. Known as “Dad Witt,” he was a
friend of thousands of Milwaukee’s boys,
girls and adults. He cared deeply for the
people whom he served.

 

children was presented under the title The 0
Woman in the Shoe Entertains. The Gold
Goose, The Wishing Fairy Entertains a
Sleeping Beauty were also given. Dramati
tion and story telling were the features of t
daily program.

A Home For Hobbies

(Continued from page 179)
really can’t think of stock markets and ba

balances while trying to make your own c
toon version of “Skippy,” or picture your ‘
vorite hunting scene in a creative art cla
Wood working keeps your mind off perso
problems too, for a mistake may ruin your f o
stool or magazine rack.

Weaving, leather work, jewelry, all ha

a lump of clay! It’s so friendly. It respon
to your wishes but demands undivided att
tion. If you are angry or annoyed you c '
punch it and pound it and it never talks bac
and if you make a mistake, as we all do, :
pecially if we start thinking of our ever—pr
ent worries, we can correct the error or st
over again without ruining our material or (1
position. Several women with whom I talk
as we worked intimated or actually told me
the recent upset conditions of their lives, ~
row, ill health, financial worries, and the re
live-saving and life-giving values of self-
fldence, relaxation and joy that they had
ceived through their Workshop activities. ‘
one time in the week I can really rest,”
woman said ; “You see, all week I lead su
hectic life, as do so many modern mot
However, I go away from here absolutely
freshed, knowing I’ve really achieved so

thing, although my work leaves much to
desired.”

 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

he Workshop director cooperates closely
11 hospitals, institutions, doctors and spe-
: ists, psychiatric and welfare agencies, keep-
; them informed of the activities of the Cen-
and following their advice in aiding people
om they send. So many people, young and
l convalescing from serious illnesses or oper-
ons, or handicapped through birth, accident,
disease; worried, unhappy unadjusted indi-
uals; many dissatisfied with the rush and
rry of this materialistic age; strangers; un-
ployed seeking relief from strain or prepar-‘
for new vocations and lastly, lonely old
Ie — all find re-creative values in the
rkshop.
e would not have you think, however, that
. is the W'orkshop’s only function, for al3
ugh this phase is of utmost importance to
individuals concerned, it is the work with
ma] human beings which reaches the great-
number. Ambitious children and adults,
and beauty lovers, teachers seeking new
terial and practice, artists gaining inspira-
and companionship, all find relaxation,
panionship and real joy in the Westchester
rkshop.

All Aboard for the International

Congress!
(Continued from page 187)

Member Advisory Committee

i aSaron Takeru Yamakawa, a member of the
ernational Advisory Committee from Japan,
I graduate of the Imperial University where
took an active part in several branches of
letics and sports. He is also a follower
. participant in baseball and tennis. Enter-
the Government service he was sent to
ba Prefecture where he was put in charge
the Educational Department. The Baron
is new Chief of the Phy-
sical Educational De-
partment of the Educa-
tional Department of the
Government. This sec-
tion has charge of the
promotion, throughout
the whole country, of
not only the physical edu-
cation program through
the schools, but also
many phases of the more
general recreation pro-

   

Iaron Taker-u
amakawa, Japan

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 211

    
     

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Journal of Physical Education, May 1932.
Education of the Whole Man for Leisure.
(Summary of Dr. L. P. Jacks’ book, by Arthur
T. Noren.)
A Study in Volley Ball, by M. A. Clevett.

Golf Basketball, by Milton A. Orphan.

The University of Michigan, School of Education Bulletin,

April 1932.
Physical Education and the Use of Leisure, by
Jackson R. Sharman.

The American City, May 1932.
Waste Places Become Beauty Spots, by Elmer T.

Peterson.
Present-Day Swimming Pools Achieve High Stand-

ard of Design and Operation.
A Shakespeare Garden for the Portland Public, by

Florence Graydon Ragen.
City Acquires Historic Beauty-Spot by Gift.
Regulation of Boxing and Wrestling Matches in
Memphis. '

Scholastic Coach, April 1932,
“Just a Girl,” by Ethel Perrin.

Parks and Recreation, May 1932.

Design and Construction of Mount Vernon Memo-
rial Highway, by R. E. Toms and J. W. Johnson.

Frank Newhall Look Memorial Park.

A Competitive Park Design, by George D. Hall.

Geology As a Hobby for Individual, Community and

Nation, by Forest Rees. .
Popularize Swimming, by La Rue Finley.

Swimming Pool Sundries.
Swimming Pool Developments of the Past Decade,

by Chauncey A. Hyatt.
Illumination of Recreational Areas, by F. D.

Crowther. "
Camps and Campfires, by Paul B. R113.

The Red Cross Courier, June 1932.
Junior Profits from a Starved Play Spirit.

PAMPHLETS

Second Annual Report—Department of Public Recreation
—Lansing, Mich, 1931.

Subsistence Gardens in the Lumber Industry .
The President’s Organization on Unemployment Relief,
1734 New York Avenue, Washington, D. C.

A Suggested Community Progranr—Recreational Activi—
ties for the Unemployed. The President’s Organiza-

tion on Unemployment Relief.

Report of the Smith Memorial Playgrounds of Philadel-
phia, for the Year 1931.

Play and Recreation in Los Angeles—A Directory of Rec-
reation Areas and Activities.

212

BICENTENNIAL FLOWER GARDENS

vahe constant prog-

ress of a billion dollar field
is accurately and interest-
ingly reflected in the pages

of “Southern City." “A

AAAHGI'C you will find

news of the latest activities
of public officials through-
out the South—news of
undertakings accomplished

and plans for future

activities.

 

m

SOUTHED ~

DIXIE’S ONLY SOUTHWIDE
CITY BUILDING PUBLICATION

Baker & Ivy Streets
ATLANTA, GEORGIA

  
  
  
 
  
    
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
 

gram. Baran Yamakawa is also Chief Sec
tary of the combined organization compris
all the administrative officials of the Dep
ment of Education.

Bicentennial Flower Gardens
(Continued from page 195).

the planting of the baseball diamond in creep
bent grass that is expected to form an endu
turf.

Requests for information and suggestions
to how best' to proceed with school gardens h
poured into the oliices of the United Sta
George Washington Bicentennial Commissi ,
since a nation-wide broadcast a short time ago i
which the Secretary of Agriculture, Mr. Art 1
M. Hyde, and the Honorable Sol Bloom, As l
ciate Director of the Commission, made the s i
gestion to the vast radio audiences that garden '
this year make a special effort to have bloomi ‘
flowers fill all vacant lots and unsightly places i,
honor of George Washington. l

The garden experts in the Bicentennial Co ‘
mission are being greatly aided in carrying .
this helpful program by the American Society ‘ l
Landscape Architects, by the United States I
partment of Agriculture, the Garden Clubs .
America, the National Recreation Associati
and many other allied organizations. The hor
culturalists attached to the State Agricultu
Colleges are helping greatly by suggesting lists t
flowers best adapted to their own localities f t
quick blooming results.

"WhooPie" Play Boats
(Continued from page 199)

heavy boys stand in the middle, or fasten
center and draw together with clamps. (Have -
boards wet before bending). The boat must I
caulked with oakum and lead or waterproof g1
and painted with two coats of boat paint.
use orange and green with blue trimmings.
The following lumber is required: For t
sides, two pieces of clear white pine %” by II .
by 8’ cut according to Figure I; for the botto
one piece of red cedar g4” to I” by 20” by i
for the center brace, one piece white pine 7g” l
1%”, dimensions, Figure 2; for the ends, t
pieces white pine 73”, dimensions, Figure 3; f t
the edges of the boat, 20 linear feet 1%” h
round pine moulding. Twenty linear feet I” I

l
-l
a
l
l
0

l
a
l
l

  
  
  
 
  
   
    
   
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
    
  
  
   
 
 
  
 

x” white pine should be made to fit inside the

' -. t between the bottom and the sides and ends
h four pieces 94” by 6” pine for end seats and

cleats across the inside of the bottom of the

y- t. Three pieces 1” by I” by 8’ are used for
es to run lengthwise of the bottom of the boat

; the edges and in the center. One gross No. 8,

” flat head brass screws are necessary for
mbling the boat.

A Rose Garden Memorial

(Continued from page 201)

the test garden is an artificial lake of about
acre in extent, with the shores devoted to a
k garden and its waters to aquatics. This
e is surrounded on three sides by a paved
've, bordered with wildnroses with a backing
' evergreens and shrubs and known as the Rose
ive.
hundred feet to the west of the memorial
lder is the lily pool. With its symmetrical
tline and marginal planting, this pool is a beau—
ul central motif to the garden. It bears the
e, “The Doran Lily Pool,” in honor of
omas F. Doran who took the initiative in the
ole development.
. The rose garden is completely floodlighted.
is floodlighting system, the gift of the Kansas
» ver and Light Company, was constructed at a
t of approximately $2,000. Visitors from all
ts of the country have declared that they find
' charm about the intense light and shadows of
- night scene superior to the more diffused day-
 ht as they play upon the moving water with it‘s

'es and goldfish.

  

  

i Many Groups Cooperated
While the movement for building the rose gar-
was inaugurated by the Topeka Horticul-
ral Society, credit is given to the Flower
vers Club, the West Side Forestry Club,
Flower Show Association, the Oakland
restry Club, the public schools and the
amber of Commerce for cooperation in rais-
; the necessary funds and carrying the work
completion. The cost to date has been $26,000,
‘ ,000 of which is said to have been the gift of
"'_ . Doran. The skill and ability with which the
' den was constructed and is maintained result
"h the 9,000 rose bushes remaining in full bloom
oughout the entire season, with no bud, blos-
or cutting removed without proper authority,
spite of the fact that there are no guards or

lice, and the garden is open to the public at all

    
 
   
      
  
   
   

t
t

 

A ROSE GARDEN MEMORIAL 213

  

Brigt

CI SUNSHINE
6“"‘FRESH AIR

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

ROTECTING children at play is the aim
Pof the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the dan-
gers and dirt in dustl It's so easy and
it costs next to nothing.

An application Of Solvay Flake Calcium
Chloride on gravel or earth surfaces
effectively ends the dust nuisance. And
Solvay Calcium Chloride kills germs.
The photomicrographs pictured here
show you the results. 347cultures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the same dust
treated with Solvay Calcium Chloride.

Germs
in Dust

Before treatment After treatment

   

Make this a dustless outdoor season
on your playgrounds. Send today for
full information and booklet NO. “59.

3. ._. Alkalies and Chemical Products Monufac.
V tured by The Solvay Process Company

Oi Broadway New York

% 0 LVAY

,g, SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

TRADE MARK REG U S. PAT OFF

ALCIUM
Cuholulm,

FLAKE—77%-BO%

 

 

214 A. CLEAN-UP CAMPAIGN

WHATEVER

your H O B BY
you will Jinal it in K

EVERYDAY Juno

cience and

 4-Color Cover
‘  Over 450 Illustrations
96 Paces-9x12 Inches

 

MR. HUGO GERNSBACK’S latest magazine contains the

most important and recent developments in Science.
Mechanics, Radio, Television. Aviation and Chemistry.
For everyone, regardless of age, EVERYDAY SCIENCE AND
MECHANICS will be found to be useful and instructive.
It is thoroughly illustrated with scientific news events
from all parts of the world. and helpful to thousands of
people who wish to advance their scientific knowledge.

Many excellent pages for students, instructors and for the
home workshop man who nnds pleasure in building

things: experiments in electricity, chemistry and formulas
of all kinds.

Just to mention a few departments:

AUTOMOTIVE HOUSEHOLD HINTS WOODWORKING
AVIATION METAL WORKING WRINKLES
BIOLOGY NEW DEVICES RECIPES 51:“)
BOOK REVIEWS PATENT ADVICE FORMULAS
CHEMISTRY PHOTOGRAPHY

ELECTRICITY RADIO SHOP KINKS
ENGINEERING TELEVISION and other:

EFF??? 8 MONTHS FOR $|~°°

Mail Coupon Today!

o_———_——————_————————

EVERYDAY SCIENCE AND MECHANlCS
100 T Park Place, New York, N. Y.

I enclose herewith One Dollar for which you are to enter my
subscription to EVERYDAY SCIENCE AND MECHANICS for the
next Eight Months.

vvvv vvvvvv vvvvvv vv

hours of the day and night. There is but 0
sign in the entire garden. This is cut in sol 3
stone in one of the pylons at the main entranc '
It reads: The Honest Need N o Watchman.
At the inception of this rose garden it bec
necessary to select a leader of executive abili
and it fell to the writer’s lot as then President u
the Topeka Horticulture Society to name Thom
F. Doran of Topeka to command. His initiati t
executive ability and indomitable energy ha
been responsible in large measure for the creati
of an elysium from the sparseness of the ba .3
prairie in an incredibly short time.

  
    
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
    
  
 
 
   

 

1
l

A Clean-up Campaign
(Continued from page 204)

5. Everything stored as neatly as possible wh

not in use.

J

6. Toilets clean and in order.

7. Chalk marks and other defacement remov
where possible.

8. All cupboards clean and in order.

9. Rooms, lavatories, etc., properly ventilated

10. Special rules governing buildings an
windows.

x
1

Special Activities

((1) Additional effort to make grounds attractiv
Economy and care in use of supplies a
equipment.

Flag flying from opening of ground to su
set daily.

Bulletin Boards neat, up-to-date, and a
tractive posters.

Enforcement of safety rules.

(27) Special efforts re: champion athletic, swi
ming and other city-wide or special occasion

The items marked “a” and “b” for whi
graded points were awarded, included such activ

ties as the following: athletic badge tests, co .

munity singing, orchestras, music memory test

pageants, dramatics, holiday celebrations, bl
parties, citizenship activities, first aid class
safety first campaigns, art activities, craftsma
ship, self—government, shows, athletics, hikin
tournaments, picnics, field days, a playgroun
circus, treasure hunts, wagon parades, and sim
lar activities.

t

l

Method of Scoring
Possible five points for each of the twen
numbered items.

Possible ten points each for those items mar
ed “a” and “b.”

New Books on Recreation

The Delinquent Child

rt of the Committee on Delinquencey of the White
use Conference. The Century Company, New York.
50.

. ms report is a convincing statement of a new point of
view toward problems of juvenile delinquency. The
t that about one per cent (200,000) of our children of
enile court age actually appear each year in a juve-

court presents a serious problem, the solution of
ich lies in the understanding of the delinquent child

. an attempt to remove or lessen causes of delinquency.
- responsibility of the home, the school, the church,
: munity, industry and the State is discussed. Recrea-
~ as a vital community influence receives important
sideration. “Certainly the field of recreation,” states

report, “offers great gifts of increased personal
'er, contentment and happiness. No other field quite
als it in certain satisfactions, if its entire scope is
sidered.” A11 recreation workers will find this book
absorbing interest.

Folk Festivals

11-: Dances and Melodies collected by Mary Effie
mbaugh. Music arranged by Anna Pearl Allison.
. S. Barnes & Co., New York City. $3.00.

_ ERE is a collection of folk dances grouped for festi-

val use with descriptions and music which should be
ceedingly valuable for the teacher and the play—
ound worker. Folk festivals, in the author’s Opinion,
best created to meet a particular situation. She has
erefore described typical folk gatherings for various
ionalities and has given bib1i0graphies from which sug-
. ions for other scenes might be secured. In Part VI
presented outlines of a number of festivals based on
k tales. This represents the work of students of the
hor at the University of California. The outlines may
used separately or as a group of scenes for longer
a grams. Helpful bibliographies are presented and
sic for a number of dances is given.

Manual of Play Activities

' ed by A. D. Browne, MD. Department of Physical
cation, Peabody College for Teachers, Nashville,
nessee. $.80.

HIS very practical manual of games, introduced 'by
some definite, concise suggestions to teachers. and
y leaders, contains over two hundred high and low
paau ueq pm: zeq punosBKerd a .10 [reqzaaseq ‘ueq Kai
‘neq .raaaos 'e Kruo qaiqm u; sainanae Kurd paziueBJo
. It is a program requiring little cost for supplies.
tivities are classified according to the supplies used
I are adapted to age and sex differences. A carefully
piled index for selecting activities adds greatly to
usefulness of the book.

 

Swrmming

By Grace Bruner Daviess. Lea and Febiger, Philadel-
phia, Pennsylvania. $2.25.
A BOOK for teachers of swimming which presents meth-

ods of instruction and technique in a clear and
logical way. Each of the standard strokes is defined and
analyzed; common faults are pointed Out and the cor-
rectives prescribed. Although the book is written from
an intramural point of view and seemingly for girls, it
applies equally as well to 'boys and intergroup swimmers.

Periodicals for the Small Library

American Library Association, Chicago, Illinois. $1.00.
IN'this book will -be found an annotated list of periodi-
cals which have proven generally useful in small libra—
ries. The inclusions are based on the votes of over two
hundred collaborating library workers who are in small
libraries and conversant with the work and needs of such
libraries. RECREATION is one of the magazines listed.

Children's Reading

White House Conference on Child Health and Protec-
tion. The Century Company, New York. $.75.

THIS report of the Subcommittee on Reading of the
White House Conference on Child Health and Pro-
tection presents the findings of one of the most thorough
studies ever made of the voluntary reading of boys and
girls in the United States. It not only reveals the prefer—
ences of children and their reading habits, -but considers
the whole problem of providing children with benencial
literature and stimulating their interest in it. The book
contains a valuable bibliography.

Tap Dances

By Anne Schley Duggan. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $2.00.

IIWHATSOEVER gives youth the idea that wholesome
play in game, dance or other form is a legitimate,
indeed, an imperative part of fine living is good educa-
tion.” Thus writes Dr. Jesse F. \Villiams of Teachers
College in his introduction to this book of tap routines
which is designed to supplement the material available on
the subject for school purposes and to answer a felt need
voiced by instructors in physical education who are called
upon to supply entertainment numbers on programs of all
kinds. The routines presented, Miss Duggan points out,
are especially adaptable to recreational and extra-cur-
ricular use with suggestions as to costuming and the
specific occasions which the dance may be made to serve.
The music, arranged by Esther Allen Bremer, and the
diagrams presented add to the practical nature of the
book.

215

216 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Greek Games.

Compiled by Mary Patricia O’Donnell and Lelia
Marion Finan. A. S. Barnes and Company, New

York. $4.00.

The organization of the Greek Games held annually at
Barnard College since 1903 is described by two members
of the staff of the Department of Phy51ca1 Education
who have been closely associated with the games during
recent years. “Most of the readers of these pages,
writes Agnes R. Wayman, Head of Department of Phy-
sical Education, in an introductory statement, “have seen
pageants and festivals, track meets and field. days; they
have seen dance dramas and Greek processionals; they
have heard Greek choruses and read student poetry. Very
few people have seen drama and pageantry, danc1ng and
athletics, poetry and singing, processional and chorus, all
combined into one large spectacle, with just enough plot
to bind the various activities together and pr0v1de Op-
portunity for the dramatic; just enough Of the competi—
tive spirit to give the whole, life and enthu51asm; Wlth
everything done to the end that color and line and form
and beauty are so emphasized that the composite becomes
an inspiring, breath taking, student performance.”

The book has been prepared in the hOpe that it will be
of service to groups planning festivals, large or small.
It contains much practical material regarding organiza-
tion, lyrics, dances, music and other phases of the pro-
gram, and should be exceedingly helpful. While the book
has to do with practical details, something of the beauty
of the games is glimpsed in the illustrations used.

Parties for Grown- Ups.

McCall’s Magazine, New York. $.20.

Every holiday and every season has its own festivities.
Here are suggestions for indoor and outdoor parties; for
simple inexpensive parties and parties that may be as
elaborate as you please.

Tests and Measurements.

By Irene Palmer. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $2.00.

This is, as the author states in her sub-h'eading, “a
work book in health and physical education,” and de-
signed for use by teachers and students of the subject
who are interested in progress. It is intended to inter-
est them in the possibilities of measurement and to give
them some bases for the evaluation and interpretation of
tests.

Extra-Curricular Activities in Secondary Schools.

By Elbert K. Fretwell. Houghton Mifflin Company,
New York. $2.75.

“Largely within the past decade and wholly within the
past two,” states the editor in its introduction, “an en-
tirely new interest in extra-curricular activities of youth
has been taken by the school.” As a result of this, the
responsibilities of the teacher have “been broadened, the
morale of the school has been greatly improved and a
far closer intimacy between teacher and pupil is the
natural result. Dr. Fretwell’s book is full of practical
suggestions and experiences which will be helpful to
teachers in their function as guides and counselors of

youth, and. many phases of extra-curricular activities are
described Including athletics.

Character Education.

The Department of Superintendence. National Edu-
cation Association, 1201 Sixteenth Street Northwest,
Washington, D. C. $1.80.

The Tenth Yearbook of the Department of Superin-
tendence has been devoted to character education, and in
this volume the difficult task has «been attempted of pre-
senting a discussion of character education as a func-
tion of the schools in a way which will promote rather
than hinder such education. This point of view is ex-
pressed in the question, “How can we give conscious at-

tention to character educatioin without defeating its
very end P”

   
 
     
   
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
  

In facing this question the Commission on Charact
Education, consisting of nine educators, has sought fir
to avoid presenting anything which could be construe
as a proposed, definite character education plan. N
scheme is presented as the way by which good charact
is to be produced, and no character pattern is charted '
any definite sense. The position taken is that “charact
education consists of constructive reactions to life sit
ations without thought on the part of the individual .
to whether his reaction in a particular situation is 0
calculated to bring about his own self-improvement.”

The 1931 Year Book of the National Probation Ass
ciation.

National Probation Association, 450 Seventh Aven
New York. $1.00.

A number of well known juvenile court judges, prob
tion officers, criminologists and leaders in other fiel
have contributed to this issue of the Year Book whi
contains up—to-date information on the treatment a
prevention of crime in the United States. Of the fi
causes listed in the Year Book as contributing largely [
crime and delinquency during 1931, lack of proper rec -
ation facilities appears as the fourth. “The quest for ne
experiences and for adventure to offset the humd
and often depressing influence of home environment
one of the imp-elling infiuences which drives boys a
young men to associate with disorderly companions ' n
groups or gangs. Supervised and properly directed an '
reation is needed for every community.”

A Error Corrected

In a quotation appearing in the article entitle
“As to Competition”. in the June issue of RE
REATION, Dr. W. V. Bingham was referred to a
editor of Child Study. Dr. Bingham is Directo
Personnel Research Federation, New York.

_Oiiicers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAst T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.

CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORSET-T, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUEEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.

MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.

JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

WILLIAII HALE HARKNEss, New York, N. Y.

CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind,

MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.

GUSTAvUS T. KIRBY, New_ York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.

ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Washington, D. C.

MISS ELLEN SCRIRRS, LaJolla, Calif.

FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, J R., Washington, D. C.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

MRS. WILLIAM H. WOODIN, JR., Plainfield, N. J.
FREDERICK M. WARDURG, New York, N. Y.

