HacMun'ny College Library I

Colorful Living
\
Art, Sport, Recreation As (3 Substitute For Worgjxl
//

“To serve in an active army, even when you are not under fire, is to live
in more parts of your nature, in a greater variety of nerves, With a keener sen81-

tiveness and a more vital energy than you suspected you had. The mere pos-
sibility of danger, the fate that hangs over you, even if it does not fall, makes
life inexpressibly colorful. The fiendish thing about war is this, that nothing
in peace gives you so much sense of being alive. Until pacifism reckons with
this fact, we shall have war, because that man who has been through a war

and has not been hurt will usually try the next war in the hope of living again
before he dies.”—John Erskine, in the Herald Tribune Magazine, June 26, 1932.

EVERAL TIMES recently the question has been put to recreation workers as to
what can be done through the recreation centers, the athletic fields, and
through the recreation leadership in the community to give a more adequate

measure of adventure and of “living again" in the midst of a world that is often

all too dull.

At certain periods of life for certain individuals football, basketball, sailing
in a heavy breeze, horseback riding, polo playing, give very much of this sense of
complete living, requiring that the preson engaged shall feel alive, keep completely
awake. In another field, playing certain diflicult pieces of music on the violin
seems to make much the same demand and give much the same satisfaction to cer-
tain kinds of individuals. For other individuals the complete giving of themselves
to parts in a play has much the same effect. Even girls of twelve to fourteen years
of age sometimes come out of a religious play as if they were coming down from
the mountain of transfiguration.

It should not be forgotten that certain experiences in sport, in art, in the pro-
cesses of beauty, g1ve almost as much of satisfaction in memory as at the time.

The completeness with which the individual is taken up, absorbed, gripped
by his experience, the absolute dedication with which he gives himself to the activ—
ity, seem to have power to make the experience one never to be forgotten. Enough
such eXperiences give the individual a feeling that no matter what may happen in
the future, one worth while life has been lived already.

Surely humanity has power within itself to work out in enough variety these
completely absorblng act1VIt1es so that all men and women shall have an oppor-
tun1ty to 11ve W1thout murder1ng one another in wars of state against state.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

 

Spring's Awakening

Courtesy Nation’s School: Publishing Company

In fhe general movemen’r for fhrif’r gardens which has
developed in fhe pas’r fwo or fhree years. fhe impor’rance of
children's gardens has forfuna’rely no’r been overlooked. In
a number of ci’ries recrea’rion depar’rmen’rs and school boards
are promo’ring such gardens.

Cedar Rapids, Iowa. is a "garden ci’ry." and for eigh’r
years children's gardens have been fos’rered fhere. Las’r year
approximafely 2400 children had-fheir individual plo’rs for
vege’rables and flowers of fbe fourfeen communify gardens
mainfained under fhe auspices of fhe Playground Commis-
sion. A’r fhe same fime adul’rs fools a more ac’rive inferes’r
fhan ever before in fhe gardening program. Over l.000
families were given fracfs for subsis’rence gardens.

The Recrea’rion Division of {he Park Deparfmen’r of Cam-
bridge. Massachuse’r’rs. wi’rh fhe approval of fhe School Com-
miffee and fhe Cambridge League of Women Vo’rers. held a
backyard garden confes’r for school children. Awards for fhe

’7

H

 

bes’r vege’rables and flowers were offered a’r fhe end of
fhe season by fhe Massachuse’r’rs Horficul’rural Sociefy. Where
fhe children could no’r afford fo buy seeds fhey were given
fhem. '-

Gardens for fhe unemployed have mul’riplied grea’rly. If is
es’rima’red fba’r a fo’ral of 324 acres. or more fhan fwice fhe
number used las’r year. will be under cul’riva’rion in fhe sum-
mer of I933 for communify garden proiec’rs of fhe Mayor's
Commi’r’ree in Cleveland. Ohio. This will provide 6.450 in-
dividual plo’rs as compared wifh approxima’rely 3.000 las’r
year. The number of home gardens. equipmen’r for which
will be provided free fo fhe ci’ry's unemployed. will be
increased.

Gardening should be sfressed as one of fhe ac’rivi’ries
which is helping mosf fo mainfain bo’rh men’ral and physical
heal’rh. For fhere is. in fhe confac’r wifh na’rure gardening
gives. a source of deep safisfaclion and ioy.

 

Courtesy of Ministry of Hygiene and Physical Education, Czechoslovakia

"Children Are Like That"

By
J OSETTE FRANK

01‘ so LONG ago it was accepted that the
N child’s training was his parent’s business,
his “learning” was the school’s, but his play
was his own. It was his own, not by any divine
right but rather because it was the unimportant
remnant of his activities, with which no respon-
sible person was particularly concerned. With the
coming of a new philosophy of education, how-
ever, the child’s play has taken on a new dignity
as one of the chief instrument's of education itself.
From this change of viewpoint both parents and
teachers have come to regard play as their busi—
ness also, with the result that children seem to be
losing their last remaining prerogative—the right
to their own way of playing.

Is there not some danger that in our new-found
concern for the “educative value of play” we may
fail to see the woods for the trees? What, exactly,
do we mean by play? We cannot safely circum—
scribe it by definitions, for play surely means dif-
ferent things to different people. But whatever
may be its meaning, whatever its purpose and its
values, is not the very essence of play to be spon-
taneous and self-chosen?

’ In a summer community, a number of parents
organized a play group for
their children, ranging from
seven. to ten years. The pro-
gram was carefully planned
and carried out by a well liked

Miss Frank’s article first oppeared in
Chifd Study for December l932, an
issue entirely devoted to a consid-
.eration of Play and Play Materials.

A plea for the child’s right at
times to choose his play wher-
ever and however he mayfind it.

teacher, and on the whole the children seemed to
enjoy the activities. There could be no doubt that
this group successfully met many of the child-
ren‘s play interests.

It was not unusual, however, to hear a mother
admonishing her seven—year—old, “You’d better
stop playing now and hurry, or you’ll be late for
your play group.” Or sometimes, “No, you can’t
play at home today—you have to go to your play
group.”

No room for choice or solitary play here! Play
was where the group was. The seasonal change
from school in town to vacation in the country
had merely shifted the daily schedule from “com-
pulsory education” to “compulsory play.”

Toward the end of the summer the program of
approved constructive activities and good physi-
cal education closed and the group ceased to func-
tion; but the children, as neighbors, continued to
play together. Left to their own resources what
did they do? To an adult interested in seeing
what happened when “the lid was off” the out-
standing phenomenon was that this group of chil-
dren, most of whom had been brought up in the
“modern manner,” promptly divided itself into
its male and female components—the girls against
the boys. And this in a group where boys and
girls had played together suc-
cessfully all summer—under
supervision! The girls took to
trading squares of kindergar-
ten paper, spent hours assort-

3

4- “CHILDREN ARE LIKE THAT”

ing and arranging their stocks, which were never
utilized as the cutout materials for which they
were intended. Telling secrets—heretical as it

parchesi and casino. The boys occgpied them-
selves with swapping treasures, quarreling about
prerogatives, comparing their assortments of

match covers, and generally annoying the girls
who they seemed to consider their natural enemies.

Food for More Thought

One cannot draw conclusions from these and
similar isolated observations but one is set to won-
dering: What do children find in these seemingly
“useless” ways of spending their free time—ways
'which certainly seem not to fit into any adult
picture of “educative play”? And has spontan-
‘eous choice no values in itself? How far is the
adult justified in directing all of children’s play,
however subtly, into more “constructive” outlets?

In the nature of modern living a certain amount
of adult .supervisiOn,of children’s activities—in—
cluding play—is inevitable. So, also, is a certain
amount of adult help in providing the “makings”
for children’s'fun—substitutes for the attic, the
hay loft and the .cellar door ‘of our grandmothers’
childhood setting. We cannot'expect our children
to play in a vacuum, such as-most city dwellings
and even many suburban ones suggest from the
child’s play viewpoint. We have to offer them not
only Some place tof play in but something to play
with (possibly’, but not necessarily, ready-made
playthings) ; and along with these at least a modi-a
cum of freedom from adult sanctions. In the old-
fashioned family with its busy household such
freedom was a matter of course; it was a rare

mother who had time to inquire at everyrhour
what each of her nine chil-
dre'n.‘ was playing at.~ Fur-
thermore the large 'family,
whatever its~faults‘ of ex- -
ploitation of~ the: younger 
by' the older of its members,’
offered .- almost unlimited
choices in the Way. of play-
mates. There was the group
availablemhenla- group Was
wa'r1ted;~and.there was usu-
ally'a lik'e'-min'ded' rbrother. ,.
or sister E'Or cousin for
chosen kindsiof quiet play.

In our modern family of I932.

"What does a child enioy? He enioys seeing
things happen as a result of his octivity.
The ioy a baby gets from throwing a spoon
repeatedly- to; the floor may be the noise
that he has made. Whenagrown person gets _ full of the most approved
a thrill from having ac i '
he is experiencing the same type of ioy that
the boby with. the spoon enioys.
'the best sense, playing.
issue of life feserved for children. Life itself
is a game, beginning with the simple acts of ,
childhood and increasing in complexity, but
suffused from beginning to end with the
attitude of play—‘the ioy of doing things."
—-Iohn B. Morgan,’in' Child Study, December

complished something

1

two or less, and with our urban isolation from
neighbors, we have also to provide our children
with access to playmates—with some range of
choice, not limited to these we adults would like

to have them play with.

Putting the Grown-Up in His Place

But all of this does not mean that we must
continuously busy ourselves with our children’s
play. It is true that children like the company of
adults for a variety of reasons—but rarely for
play reasons. It is fun for the. children some-
times to have parents make things for them; it is
fun for them to make things with parents which
they could not make without adult help. But it is
not necessary for children always to be “making
things.”

Adults can contribute to children’s play, but
only rarely can they truly participate. Again,
children may like to take part in adult games.
There is a certain thrill in seeing their parents
sometimes abandon themselves to play. For when
parents, usually so busy with serious affairs, actu-
ally take time for the childish fun of games——
running or jumping, baseball as skating—some—
how their participation seems to legitimatize play.

Evidently these adults do not regard play as a
“waste of time.” But let us not deceive ourselves

into believing we can be playmates to our chil-
dren; normally their play is with their own kind.

Parents, especially the more conscientious
among them, are often disappointed when their
best efforts to keep their children’s play “educa-
tional” seem to fail. “The mother of a nursery age
child, having provided her four-year-old with all
the approved blocks in generous sizes recom—
mended to suit his large muscle activities, was

distressed to find him absorbed in the tiny wooden
squares of his older bro-

ther’s anagrams, painstak-
ingly building these into
miniature skyscrapers and
train tracks. In a playroom

preschool materials, these
were. his preferred play—

He is, in _
a thlngs.

Play is not a side

exactly what we least waut‘
. “them to want. In one house-
. hold. of confirmed .pacifists
a small son, well supplied

: ,Again, children williwant'

 

“CHILDREN ARE LIKE THAT” 5

with tools for constructive play, spends his al-
lowance on all the varieties of toy pistols. His
one Christmas request is for a set of soldiers and
“‘a real gun that shoots.” His games, when he is
free to choose, are all of plunger and pillage and
warfare. Is he simply rebelling against the rigid
pacifism of the home attitude which bars out

cverything that suggests lighting, or is he express- ‘

ing some personal or perhaps racial need which
can find no other expression in his so tame
existence?

The reverse of the picture is the mother who,
from the keenly remembered pleasures of her own
childhood, eagerly seizes upon her little girl’s first
expression of interest to buy her expensive fit-
tings for a doll’s house, and is then greatly ag-
grieved when the child’s interest in these play-
things fails to develop further. Many such par-
ental disappointments arise from the fact that
certain of the child’s expressions of interest are
hailed and singled out for encouragement, either
because they tally with our own tastes and enjoy-
ments, or because they seem to us to hold forth
greater promise of “constructive play” than do
others. In our haste to consolidate the gains, we
rush forth to buy the accessories for this particu-
larly play activity, only to find sometimes that it
soon gives place to some other and, from our
point of view, less desirable kind of play. Per-
haps we have hopefully overestimated the inter-
est, or perhaps we have simply forgotten to allow
for the limitations of the child’s attention span.

Very often, too, we misinterpret the child’s
true interest in what he is doing. One little girl
persuaded a companion to walk two miles to a
neighboring farm where, for the price of a nickel,
a little boy would give them each a ride on his
pony. It was, of course, a trip “without leave,”
and the parents were worried by the children’s
absence. When they returned, however, and con-
fessed the objective of their little jaunt, the
mother of the principal culprit decided that since
pony rides were so alluring, legitimate pony rides
must be provided. To her surprise, her carefully
planned visits to a friend whose pony might be
freely ridden brought only an indifferent re—
sponse. A nearby brook proved more attractive.
Perhaps, after all, it has not been the pony but
rather the adventure that had enticed these chil-
dren two miles from home. Perhaps it had been
the fascination of danger, perhaps the lure of do-
ing what they wanted when they wanted. Or per-

haps it had been only the urge to escape the
eternal vigilance of adults.

One might go on citing countless examples of
this perverse insistence of children upon liking
to do the wrong things, or, at least, the unap-
proved. There are the “funnies” and the Merri-
well books, for example, which even children well
supplied with the best literature fare devour with
all too evident relish. There are the collections of
divers bit of perfectly useless trash, when obvi-
ously collections of stamps or nature specimens
are more worth while.

As one five-year-old naively expressed it, “Isn’t
it too bad that all the things I like aren’t good for
me l”#

This is not to say that children do not also
enjoy many of the play activities that are ap-
proved. But at each of the various age periods
certain expressions find their way to the surface
and are duly frowned upon. These range all the
way from dawdling at six to babbling at sixteen.
Just what may be the significance of many of
these expressions we do not always know. We
do know, however, that they are almost universal.
Is not this some indication that they have their
roots in every real need of childhood?

It might be argued that left to their own_choices
children might elect a diet of ice cream and cake,
but that we, knowing better, insist they should
have cereal and vegetables too. Nor do we leave
it to them to decide whether they will learn arith-
metic. We make it our business to see that they
do. But play—that is, according to our pleasant
notion of it—is not, or should not be, quite like
arithmetic or carrots. It is a thing of the spirit,
and its end is the satisfaction of some heart’s
desire. Does it matter if we do not know what
that desire may be?

Where Wishes Come True

Whether this be thinking or dreaming, a yearn:
ing to be apart from the crowd for awhile or an
ardent wish to be “one of the fellows,” whether
it be an aggressive expression of developing ego
Or a retreat from action to rumination and re-
laxation—it is the child’s own, it is his play. We
will do well, perhaps, to revise our definitions of
play to include a kind of activity—0r absence
t_hereof — which is _ personal and private, and
which carries with.’ it some inner satisfaction de-
fying adult sanctions.

( C ontimrcd on page 41)

p F

A Broader

Concept
of

Physical

Education

 

‘ "a o - I —-..

- ,,'* 

1': L.

C on rtesy W estchester County Recreation Commission

A basis For a more vital con-
ception of physical education.

lation ot the mind to the body determines
in large measure the aims and character of the
physical education of that period.

The Athenian Greeks believed that mind and
body were one and inseparable, that each influ-
enced the development of the other. No other
intellectual and beauty-loving people has ever
given to physical education as high a place in
their system of education as did the Athenian
Greeks.

In the Republic Plato says, “Neither are the
two arts of music and gymnastics really, as is
often supposed, the one for the training of the
soul, the other for the training of the body. . . . .
The teachers of both have in view chiefly the
improvement of the soul.” It was hard for the
Athenian Greek to think of a beautiful spirit‘ ex-
isting in any but a beautiful body. Homer
Socrates was the anomaly of his age. Almost
without exception the great men of Greece were
men of magnincent physiques. Greece alone,
during the period of the “Golden Age,” produced
more great men than the whole world combined
has produced during any subsequent period of
equal length. There can be little doubt that the
greatness of the Greeks was due, in some mea-
sure at least, to their conception of the relation

6

I N ANY AGE the prevailing conception of the re-

By CHARLES SCOTT BERRY, Ph. D.

Director, Bureau of Special Education
Ohio State University

of the mind to the body as it found expression in
physical, aesthetic, and intellectual education.

During the Middle Ages the view of the rela—
tion of the mind to the body as held by the
Church was in marked contrast to that of the
Greeks. Influenced by the ascetic element in
Christianity and by oriental thought the Church
regarded the body as an evil, as something to be
suppressed -in order that the spirit might be un-
trammeled. Hence the practice of asceticism, the
crucinxion of the flesh that the spirit might be
free. The self—inflicted tortures of the body dur-
ing that period are almost beyond belief. Need-
less to say, physical education as such had no
place in the system of education approved by the
Church.

The period of the Middle Ages has been well
named the Dark Ages, the era when man was at
war with himself. It is not surprising that for
almost 800 years there was little or no progress.

Although the Church’s conception of the re-
lation of the mind to the body was tempered by
the Renaissance, physical education: as .such held
a lowly place until after the beginning of the
modern scientinc era.

With the development of modern science the
conception of the relation of the mind to the body
changed in a marked degree. The old view that

 

A BROADER CONCEPT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION 7

the mind was in large measure independent of the
body and that the body was evil was supplanted
by the view that the relation between the mind
and body is most intimate, that for every mental
state there is a corresponding brain state, and that
in the words of \Villiam James, “our moods and
resolutions are more determined by the condition
of our circulation than by our logical grounds.”

Physiology has shown the marked influence of
the ductless glands in both physical and mental
development. Psychiatry has revealed the futility
of attempting to submerge or destroy fundamen-
tal urges. And behavioristic psychology has di—
rected the attention away from the traditional
dualism of mind and body to their essential unity
as expressed in behavior.

\Ve now have a sound. scientific foundation
for a broader and more vital conception of phy-
sical education. If tnis conception is accepted,
the chief aim of physical education becomes the
development of the mind through the develop-
ment of the body rather than merely the develop-
ment of the body as an end in itself. Thus, in
position of importance physical education be-
comes coordinate with, and not subordinate to,
so-called academic or intellectual education.

Since feelings and ideas iind expression only
through muscular activity, obviously the proper
development of the muscles of the body is of par-
amount importance in the education of the indi-
vidual. The growth gOf the mind is contingent
on muscular activity, the type »of activity that
makes possible the objectification and intensifica-
tion of mental states. Physical education funda-
mentally seeks to make possible the full and free
expression of mental states through the develop-
ment of the body.

But in practice what is the meaning of this
broader conception, that physical education is
chiefly concerned with the development of the
mind? In the first place, it means that some of
the by-products .of physical education now be-
come major objectives. The acquisition of
strength, endurance and
skill ceases to be merely
an end in itself but be-
comes rather a means to
the development of cer-
tain mental traits. A good
illustration of this is found
in the changes which have
taken place in intercolleg-
iate sports during the past

Columbus, Ohio.

September, l932.

This conception of physical education which
defines its chief obiective as the development
of the mind through the development of the
body, rather than merely the development of
the body as an end in itself, was presented by
Dr. Berry before the annual convention of the
Mid-West Physical Education Association at

It is reprinted from the

journaI ereaIlh and PhysicaI Education for

two decades. In football, for example, the rules
have been changed repeatedly to make victory
depend more on the development of strategy, in-
itiative, resourcefulness, team work, and con-
formity to the rules; and less on weight, brute
strength, and evasion of the rules. A reputation
for good sportsmanship is now more highly prized
than victory attained by questionable methods.

It is said of one “big ten” football coach that
he has done more to develop desirable character
traits in players on the football field than any
professor has been able to accomplish in the class-
room. In fact, we are ust beginning to perceive
the possibilities of games and sports as a means
to the development of those mental traits which
are of such vital importance in an age of coopera-
tive effort.

The possibilities of physical education as a
means to emotional eXpression or interpretation
are beautifully illustrated in the folk dance. The
satisfaction that comes from full participation in
this dance is due, not to gesture and rhythm as
such, but to the participation in the emotional life
of the race which is made possible by the gesture
and rhythm. However, to realize the desired end
one must know the racial significance, the emo-
tional and ideational background of these dances.
Just as history enables one to experience the
ideational life of the past, so the folk dance en—
ables him to experience the emotional life of the

past.

In games, sports and folk dancing, the teach-
ers of physical education are now aiming more
or less consciously at the development and ex-
pression of mental states; but in the physical
drills and exercises of the classroom and gym-
nasium the chief aim seems to be the maintenance
or improvement of health. In fact, the term
“health education” in many places is used instead
of “physical education” to indicate that physical
education as such is not an end in itself but rather
a means to the improvement of health.

Health, like happiness, can be found only in
seeking something else.
Health education does not
touch the imagination of
youth. The drills and ex-
ercises which are under-
taken solely for health are
almost universally dislik-
ed. There is no more
pathetic figure than the
normal individual labor-

A BROJDER CONCEPT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

 

Courtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

iously working on the
pulleys or taking a set-
ting-up drill or running
a half mile solely for the
sake of his health (unless it is that brute for pun-
ishment who conscientiously eats all the foods he
dislikes because they are supposed to be good for
his health). It is mental, not physical, health that
is the major goal and this goal can be attained
only by directing the attention of youth to ap-
pealing objectives which lead to mental health.

But the objectives must be positive, not nega-
tive, if they are to appeal to normal youth. Good
posture is most successfully attained by empha-
sizing the desirable effects of good posture, not
by stressing the bad effects of poor posture. In
the case of the cadet Who desires a fine military
bearing, setting-up exercises and military drill
quickly yield permanent results. But in the case
of the unwilling recruit these same exercises yield
results less quickly and the results are seldom
permanent.

Thus far our discussion has been confined in
large measure to the deveIOpment and function-
ing of the fundamental or large muscles in their
relation to mental development and to health. As
yet the education of the accessory or small mus-
cles has not been regarded as belonging to the
field of physical education except in so far as

Folk dancing affords an outstanding illustration
of the possibilities of physical education as a
means to emotional expression or interpretation.

their development was
involved in connection
with that of the funda-
mental muscles. T he
training of the accessory muscles as avenues of
expression has either been neglected or left to the
teachers of voice, piano, speech and vocational
subjects. It would seem that the basic training
of the accessory musclesas muscles of expres-
sion belongs in the field of physical education and
should take place in connection with the training
of the fundamental muscles.

A fine bearing, a pleasant and expressive coun-
tenance, ease and grace in movement, muscular
and emotional control, well modulated voice,
graceful and expressive gestures—these things
which so largely condition happiness and success
result from the proper training of the accessory
muscles.

But if this desired end is to be attained, some
changes must be made in the modern gymnasium.
Its apparatus—parallel bars, mats, horse, hori-
zontal bar, pllleys and dumbbells—suggests stren-
uous physical exercise as an end in itself. One
perceives the odor of perspiring bodies but does
not feel the breath of the spirit.

If the chief aim of physical education is to be
the improvement of the mind, let us bring into

(Continued on page 41)

_I-.-l_-.- “-

|

Activities for Unemployed

and Unoccupied
Young .People

A demonstration in county-wide

cooperation for the unemployed

N EVERY HAND comes the suggestion that the
0 public schools are in the most strategic
position to render a service which will
combat the present unfortunate conditions. With
their trained staff, organized program and exten—
sive facilities located in every community, the
schools must be looked to for help in the present
emergency. At the same time, one is aware of the
insistent demand everywhere for reduction in
public budgets including the budgets of the public
schools. The problem, then, which now confronts
us, is the need of increased use of school facilities
at 'a time when there is a tremendous need to cut
down expenses.

Certainly the necessity of curtailing public ex-
penditures should not deter us from a careful ex-
amination of our own community needs and our
obligation to our young people at this time. Are
the taxpayers, who in many localities are now ex-
erting pressure on boards of education to reduce
budgets, aware of the small annual saving ef-
fected by refusing the free use of the school
buildings for after school and evening recreation
activities, and of the crucial need at this moment
that these activities be carried on? The added
cost to the schools of rendering these essential
services is inconsequential in relation to the whole
of the school’s budget. Before dismissing, because
of possible financial impllcations, other sugges-

Last fall the Westchester County Children's Asso-
ciation, aware of the dangers to boys and girls in

enforced idleness, and realizlng the aid existing
community forces might give, drew up plans to help
meet the emergency. From a conference of repre-
sentatives of schools and social and civic agencies
there developed the County Committee on Youth
Emergency Activities with the following obiectives:
to report to all communities daytime activities suc-
cessfully initiated in any center, and to focus com-
munity-wide attention on the need and stimulate

community support for local agencies attempting to
meet the need. We are presenting here abstracts

from the report dealing especially with program
suggestions.

tions of what the schools may do, each suggestion
needs to be examined carefully in relation to its
cost.

During the war our public schools arose to the
em_ergency then existing, rendering unprecedented
services. These included the use of school facili-
ties for various needed purposes. The staffs of
teachers and school administrators, in view of the
emergency, on every hand volunteered their extra
time. Teachers, who are more conscious of the
present emergency of youth than any others, will
with other citizens in a similar way respond to
the present need and volunteer their services
wherever they may be helpful. There are many
instances of additional burdens now being carried
by teachers in the present emergency.

The availability of unemployed who have the
necessary background to perform satisfactory
work as leaders of youth under the emergency
work relief provided by the state, may offer an
opportunity to schools and other community
agencies to provide educational services which
otherwise would be costly. Recently in New York
City a program of continuation education was in-
augurated which is handled entirely by men and
women from specialized fields who were unem-
ployed and who have been certified to work as
teachers by the Emergency Work Bureau. They
are compensated out of appropriations made by

9

10 ACTIVITIES FOR UNEMPLOYED YOUNG PEOPLE

the state and municipality Ior work relief. The
extra cost to the schools of conducting this work
is therefore very small.

A faculty of 285 has been chosen. This group
includes architects, engineers, artists, accountants,
dieticians, nurses, business experts and agricul—
tural and industrial technicians. A substantial
proportion of the work offered is in retainer or
refresher courses to persons who wish further
training in line with their regular occupation.
More than 5,000 individuals registered on the
first day classes were opened. Commercial courses
were most in demand, with general courses in
literature, dramatics, sociology and the sciences
second. Home-making, trade and art classes fol-
lowed in that order.

In cities and districts of Westchester County it
' is possible that a similar
program may be inaugu—
rated. Through an ex—
isting arrangement be—
tween the County Emer-
gency Work Bureau and
the County Recreation
Commission, many capa-
ble workers have been
assigned to the various
village recreation com-
missions and public
schools to assist with
their programs and en—
able 'them to inaugurate
new work. It is possible
to have this plan much more
widely adopted, for such an
assignment might be made
similarly to any school principal .who would un-
dertake to sponsor such an informal piece of edu-
cational work. It is hoped that in the several
cities, each of which has its separate work bureau,
this plan will be more widely used.

Although we are here recommending the use of
volunteer service of the employed teachers and
the use of work releif service of the unemployed,
we look upon that method of securing needed pro-
grams as an unfortunate and temporary make-
shift and urge public support which will enable
school boards and other public departments to
make necessary additions to staff in the regular
way as quickly as possible. We should regret any
action on the part of public departments which
resulted in the transfer of legitimate public jobs
to the relief status.

 

Courtesy Extension Division, Milwaukee Public School:

The lighted schoolhouse—a need in every
community, and never more essential than
in the emergency all cities now confront.

Schools will vary greatly as to the kind of as-
sistance they can offer these older boys and girls.
This committee has therefore made a number of
suggestions with full realization that no school
will be able to follow all, but in the hope that in
localities in which the problem is more or less
acute, some additional work for this group may
be undertaken by the schools.

How the Schools May Help

The following is a list of definite ways in which
schools may assist in providing educational and
recreational opportunities for boys and girls who
are not now in the public schools and who are in
need of assistance:

1. Offer day courses to those over 16 years
which will attract the unemployed back to school.

In order to interest not

only graduates but also

those who left school in
the lower grades, to re-
turn for training, there
is a need to supplement
the traditional courses.
These courses should be
on an elective basis. No
attempt should be made
to force these students
to go on with academic
work. Enrollment should
be permitted at any time
and discontinuance of at-
tendance allowed at the
pleasure of the student.
Courses should have a large
degree of recreational con-
tent and should permit students to explore their
interests and develop their abilities under guid-
ance. The following activities, which have been
conducted in various school systems, might be
given as courses or offered as a club program
similar to that carried on in a modern junior high
school:

Shops—wood work—In these classes pupils should be
encouraged to work on orders they might secure,
,broken furniture in need of repair, and otherwise
given freedom in choice of job.

Electrical shop.
Machine shop.

Automobile repair—Material to start this work could
undoubtedly be secured from local garages at practi-
cally no expense.

Printing—Second-hand equipment in good condition may
now be secured at a very low cost.

ACTIVITIES FOR UNEMPLOYED YOUNG PEOPLE 11

Radio.

Art—Drawing and painting—cartoon drawing.

Commercial Art.

Metal Crafts—Pewter, wrought iron, brass and copper.
Material and equipment sufficient for use of a class of
ten may be secured for $25.

Interior decoration.

Photography

Modeling and sculpture.

Leather craft.

Music—Orchestra, band, chorus.

Dramatics.

Commercial—Typing, stenography, bookkeeping. In sev-
eral places typewriters have been made available for
certain periods during the day to those who wish to
keep in practice. Informal classes are held in which
one pupil gives dictation to another.

English usage.

Sewing.

Cooking—Including catering.

Dietetics.

Home nursing—It has been suggested that local hos-
pitals might lend the unit needed to begin this work.

Shoe repair.

Astronomy.

Botany.

Biology.

Debating.

Aeronautics.

Ship model making.

Sales and exhibits might be held in connection
with many of these classes, returns from which
would help cover the cost of equipment and bring
a small income to the pupils themselves. This has
been accomplished very successfully for nearly a
year in a woodworking class held at the West-
chester Work Shop.

It is highly desirable, of course,
that these activities be held dur-
ing the day time. In case the
school is hlled to capacity during
the hours of regular session, it
may be possible to conduct this
work immediately following
school dismissal in the afternoon.

2. Make a follow-up of all
drop-outs and recent graduates
to find out what they are now do-
ing and attract those who are
idle back to school to a program
which will interest them. In
some cases cards are sent out by
the school. In this way a con-
tact is made and the young peo-
ple are consulted in the forma-
tion of new classes. It may be pos-
sible to reach these former pupils
by formation of alumni groups.

Recently in two cities in the county postcards
were sent out, in one instance signed by the school
superintendent, to those whom inquiry through
the schools indicated to be unemployed. It was
stated that the board of education was anxious
to know if there were any service the schools
could render at this time. Individuals were asked
to return an attached card if they wish to come
to the school for an interview. They were also
asked to check from a list given any course which

- interested them. Those listed included:

Art—Jewelry, hammered metal, weaving.
Personal grooming—Hair dressing, manicuring.
Sewing—Including costume design.

Home nursing. Printing.
Dietetics. Machine shop.
Dramatics. Electrical shop.
Music. Auto repair.
Commercial art. Commercial.
Bookbinding

Immediate replies indicate a demand for elec-
trical work, auto repair, printing, proof reading,
machine shop, typing and chorus work.

3. Interview all prospective graduates to en-
courage their return to school if they have no
jobs to go to and are not going to college.

4. Offer recreational night school classes for
those not enrolled in day school. These may

include :

Music appreciation.
Art appreciation.
Choral singing.

In the Milwaukee school centers music is
an activity the older boys are enjoying.

 

12 ACTIVITIES FOR UNEMPLOYED YOUNG PEOPLE

Orchestra and band.
Languages
Physical training

(through games)
Crafts.
Home-making,

The conventional college
preparatory objective of
night schools should to a
great extent yield place at
this time to a vocational and
recreational objective. There are several unfor-
tunate instances in which what may surely be
termed a short-sighted policy was adopted in
cutting from the program all work which was not

being taken for academic credit.

——The Survey.

5. Offer programs of free entertainment in the
auditorium and gymnasium, open to all, taking
care that those unemployed receive a special in-
vitation. Every community possesses sufficient
talent available without cost, if someone will take
initiative and organize the occasions for its use.
These may include:

Concerts (school and outside musicians).
Motion pictures (inexpensive educational pictures can
‘be obtained). ‘

Play Nights in the gym (volley ball, shuffle board, ping-
pong, chess, checkers, folk dancing, etc.)

Athletic contests without admission charge.

Lectures.

Drama.

Community Singing.

Public Forums.

Dancing.

6. Adopt a policy favorable to promotion of
leisure time activities and organization of groups
for the pursuit of common recreational interests
through the schools, relating all departments of
instruction to this task. This is surely a step in
advance of the widely accepted policy of merely
permitting the use of school facilities to com-
munity groups on permit issued after some dif-

ticulty and in many cases after a fee has been paid.

7. Where financial limitations or public opin-
ion do not permit so progressive a policy as stated
above, it is recommended that more leniency be
exercised to non-profit activity groups in grant-
ing use of facilities and that the whole procedure
of granting permission be facilitated and that such
groups be not merely tolerated but extended a
welcome.

8. Where an official community recreation com-
mission exists in any community, work out in
joint conference a cooperative plan for serving
the’ community in recreation. ’

In Wisconsin the educationol leaders are do-
ing what they can to enroll jobless young
men for postgraduate coursesin high schools,
for work in the University Extension Divi-
sion correspondence courses. In some com-
munities special work ot the high school has
been arranged for such students. In such
times as these study and reading become
a veryirnportant form of "recreotion activity."

Recreational or Leisure

Time Activities Conduct-

ed by Agencies Other
Than Schools

The term “recreation,”
as applied to the activities
of most character building
agencies, at the present

time definitely includes edu-
cational and social objectives as well as those

commonly thought of as recreational in a more
limited sense. In most communities much of this
work is conducted by agencies other than the
school. Unfortunately not every community in
the county has even one trained recreation leader.
In those localities in which there are recreation
directors and a recreation commission, the more
alert groups have become very conscious that in
a year of decreased budgets there is a larger
crowd at their doors and that this group is not
there alone in the evening but has the entire day
on its hands.

Recreation directors can scarcely be expected
to handle this unusual demand without some ad-
ditional aid from the community. This year, while
we cannot readily get donations of money to
start much needed new projects, we can, we are
finding more and more, get donations of time and -
volunteer service from individuals of high stand-
ing in business, professional and artistic circles
who have time to give and want to help.

Since commUnities in the county vary so in
size, in the number of existing facilities, such as
schools --— public and quasi-public --— recreational
agencies and centers, libraries, in size of unem-
ployment problem and in their awareness of this
problem, it is evident that no one program, how-
ever carefully worked out, could be adopted or
found to be useful in all places.

There are, however, two general aspects of this
problem common to all commllnities on which
local recreation directors and interested groups
have stated that suggestions would be helpful:

I. What is the best method of getting in touch
with these young people who are not now partici-
pating in any program?

2. \Vhat additional activities can be offered by
an existing recreation staff, other community
agencies or by volunteer talent?

MEANS OF MAKING CONTACT

It is true that enlisting unemployed young

ACTIVITIES FOR UNEMPLOYED YOUNG PEOPLE 13

people for daytime activities presents new prob-
lems even for the seasoned recreation director.
While some of the boys are to be found around
pool halls, “speakeasies” and otherloitering places,
many simply remain at home or wander about the
county hitching rides, and some, due to an already
long period of idleness, have developed inertia.
A great number of them are disturbed and rest-
less, and some are bitter because of the pressing
need of work and of making a financial contribu-
tion to their homes. For these reasons, it is often
with some difliculty that those most in need of
profitable activity are reached.

Experience has resulted in the following sug-
gestions for procedure:

It is well to secure by means of a canvass the
number of boys and girls out of work in the com-
lnunity, and their names. In several places house
to house counts have been made, in some agencies
have contributed names of those known to them,
and in others children in school have been asked
to give the names of their older brothers and sis-
ters not employed. To avoid delay in starting, it
may be well to set up a number of activities which
have been found to be of interest to this age
group and to invite participation by sending post—
cards or telephoning to those whose names have
been secured. Notices may be sent to the papers,
to welfare agencies, police or other groups of in-
dividuals having contact with these young peo-
ple. Posters should be placed in public places and
in loitering places.

Personal contact, it has been found, will reach
many who will not respond to other approaches.
The most successful method of organizing new
groups is by seeking out several nattIral leaders

and interesting each in-
dividually in getting a
group together for some
activity desired by them.

One plan initiated by
the committee as a means
of enrolling numbers of
these boys and girls in a
daytime activity is the
announcement of a series
of county-wide tourna-
ments to be held in the
afternoon in ping—pong,
shuffle board, deck ten-
nis and checkers. The

local tournaments, the
lirst of which will be

ping-pong, will be sponsored by local recreation
commissions. Giving county-wide announcement
to these activities, it is felt, will serve to give im-
petus to the local programs and interest addi-
tional young people to enroll who can later be
directed to other activities. Two recreation di-
rectors have reported an immediate response to
newspaper items, posters and bulletin board and
conversational announcements of the ping-pong
tournament.

As a guide to communities in determining the
recreation interests of this group and as a basis
in forming a program, an organization conduct-
ing research in the county has worked out the
following very helpful questionnaire which is now
being used in several localities.

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Occupation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Under 25 . . . . . . . . .. 25—40 . . . . . . . . . .. Over 40 . . . . . . . 
\Vould you be interested in any further training?
Yes . . . . ..No . . . . .. If yes, what kind? . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
What do you now do for amusement or recreation?. . ..
If nothing, what do you do with your spare time?. . . .

I I I I I I I O I O O I I I D I I O I I I I I O I I 0 O I I I I I I I O O I I O I I O I I I I O 0 I 0

If there were a center in your neighborhood, would you
be interested in:

1. Place to read Yes . . . . ..No . . . . ..

2. Free movies Yes . . . . ..No . . . . ..

3. Free shows 0. Taking part Yes . . . . ..No . . . . ..

b. Attending Yes . . . . ..No . . . . ..

Participation . . . . . . . . . . . . '

Westchester County provides recreation for mothers
and children as well as older boys and girls.

 

Courtesy IVestchestcr County Recreation Commission

14 ACTIVITIES FOR UNEMPLOYED YOUNG PEOPLE

4. Game rooms

Checkers Yes. . . .No. . . .
Chess Yes....No....
Cards Yes....No....

Ping-Pong Yes... .No. . . .
Shuffle board Yes. . . . No. . . .

Pool Yes....No....
5. Boxing and wrestling and bas—
ketball, etc.:

0. Participation Yes. . No. .

b. Attending Yes. .No . .
6. Community singing:

(1. Participation Yes . . No . .

b. Attending Yes. .No..
7. Orchestras:

0. Participation Yes . .No. .

5. Badminton and chess.
6. Archery.

What Must Be Conserved in Times
oF Crisis ?

Morale. By strengthening Fellowship and
neighborliness in many groups each week.

Girls
1. Ping—pong.
2. Volley ball.

3. Shuffle board.
4. Folk dances.

Self-Respect. By aiding and stimulating
every eFFort toward selF-help.

- ' - . 5. Checkers
Couragc- BY gIVIng opportunities For ' _
thought and action.  21:21:33” and Badminton-

Yout/I. By Furnishing normal recreotion—
al and group activities, and keeping in
school as many as possible.

Childbood. By liFting some oF the burden
From childish shoulders and giving oppor-

I n m a n y communities,
there are a number of private
and possibly public agencies
approaching the use of lei—
sure time from different an—

b. Attending YES-.NOH tunity For play and normal development.
Instrument . . . . . . . . . . . . . -—From Chicago Commons. 3185' A Well'munqed (1337'

8. Arts and crafts: “me Program mlght be

Weaving Yes....No.... worked out if each were to

Carpentry ‘ Yes. - . .NO- - u contribute a special type of activity by plan.

Se\ving Yes. a 0 .NO . a a c    .

es form an 1m t
Reconstruction of toys Yes. . . .No. . . . g por ant part Of

Other activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
In one commtmity in which this questionnaire

was filled out for some 28 unemployed, the an-
swers to the question for what they did for
amusement were as follows:

(1) 9: reading

(2) 8: nothing

(3) 8: athletic games
(4) 5: cards

(5) 5: visiting
(6) 3: walking
(7) 2: movies
(8) 1: dancing

The following activities in the order of the
times they were checked represent what this
group would like to have if a recreational center

were available :

Free shows . . . . . . . . . . .28 Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18

Take part ' . . . . . . . .13 Orchestras . . . . . . . . . . . .18

Attend . . . . . . . . . . .15 Take part . . . . . . . . . 2

Free movies . . . . . . . . . .25 Attend . . . . . . . . . . . .16

Place to read . . . . . . . . .22 Arts and crafts . . . . . . .14

Community singing . . . .22 Pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12

Basketball, wrestling, Checkers . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11

boxing . . . . . . . . . .20 Ping—pong . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

Take part . . . . . . . . 13 ‘ Shuffle board . . . . . . . . . 7

Attend . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Chess . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

SUGGESTED Acrrvn‘ms

Certain games have been found to be of special
interest to this age group. At the weekly Play
Night at the County Center in White Plains,
under the auspices of the Westchester County
Recreation Commission and attended largely by
young people under 21 years of age, game prefer—

ences in order of their popularity were as follows:
Boys
1. Volley ball.
2. Ping-pong.
3. Shuffle board and checkers.
4. Folk songs—dancing (piano volunteer).

the schedule of any recreation agency, many cen-
ters are offering or could offer in addition, the
following: clubs and classes in radio, chorus,
public speaking and dramatics, current events,
orchestra, music appreciation, leaders’ training,
bowling, wrestling. There might also be forums,
debates and discussion groups, talks on various
topics—for example, a vocational series con—
ducted by volunteer speakers who are experts in
their various lines, hikes and planned trips to
museums. Volunteer service for transportation
should be available. In some centers typewriters
have been made available to secretarial workers
who practice ,regularly to retain their skill.

There has never been a greater need for in—
dividual counselling service for young people
than at this time. The understanding leader with
experience in dealing with boys and girls can con—
tribute immeasurably to the present stability and
future welfare of those with whom he can confer
individually. So many are confused and at a loss
to know what to choose, even among training
possibilities. It is especially urgent now that such
a service be provided in connection with such an
educational program.

Rooms belonging to fraternal and patriotic
orders, volunteer fire companies, churches, are
often not in use during the day. A present can—
vass of such facilities would undoubtedly provide
additional meeting places.

What Some Communities Have Done

IN ONE LOCALITY
A Youth Emergency Committee was formed to

consider the special problems of these unemployed

ACTIVITIES FOR UNEMPLOYED YOUNG PEOPLE 15

young people. The committee was composed of
representatives from the Recreation Commission,
local branch of the Westchester County Chil-
dren’s Association, schools, _ police, Y. M. C. A.,
Y. W. C. A., Emergency Work Bureau and
churches. Each member brought to the group the
special information that his organization had of
the situation. The planning of a program to take
care of these unemployed boys and girls was then
undertaken by this group. The following ac-
complishments have been reported:

At the request of this committee a census of
unemployed young pe0ple was made under the
direction of the local Citizens’ Work Bureau. The
names secured were checked by the committee
and those not known to any recreation agency
were sought out.

Two basketball teams have been organized and
are using during the day club rooms offered by
three members of the committee.

The Recreation Commission paid unemployed
boys to insulate and paint the attic of a house be-
ing used for their craft shop. The furnishings
were donated and woodwork benches discarded
by the school were given them. This is now being
used as a club room by the Junior Achievement
W'ood Work Company.

An apartment rented by an interested individual
and donated for use is now the daytime head-
quarters for girls’ groups sponsored by the Rec-
reation Commission.

IN ANOTHER COMMUNITY

The local Recreation Commission opened a
building a year ago for daytime activities. Present
enrollment, secured through friends of boys and
girls participating in evening programs, is now
reaching several hundred a day. The director is
utilizing the services of several people secured
through the County Emergency Work Bureau.
One of these workers is conducting an art class
in which 22 people are enrolled and painting from
models. A second individual is conducting a toy
repair shop. Another is giving instruction in
weaving—seven looms are busy three days a week
and there is a waiting list of six. An adult
archery group is forming a junior class and is
offering free instruction. Community singing is
being conducted under the direction of a volun-
teer. There has been much demand for this.

A junior boxing group is being formed under
the direction of a volunteer who is an amateur.

Activities which have been most popular there

are basketball and other gymnasium activities;
shuffle board; ping-pong; cards (pinochle,
bridge) ; checkers (four-handed) ; darts.

With many activities going full tilt throughout
the day in what are now crowded quarters, one is
impressed with the orderliness of the various
groups, their courtesy toward each other and con-
centration on the task in hand.

The contribution which this communuity is
making to the welfare of these young people is
obviously considerable.

Use of Volunteer Talent

There has not been a time in recent years in
which such a number of talented and capable
people have some unemployed time and a real de-
sire to be of help in their communities. We are
learning that there are many such valuable com-
munity assets which we have not begun to call on
or possibly to ascertain. It has been the experi-
ence of many that people who were often “too
busy” when previously called on, now feel a real
obligation to be of service. There are in every
locality individuals with talent in music, dramatics
and art who may be appealed to help with this
special problem, so play equipment is being
donated or loaned on request. There are un-
doubtedly many young owners of small moving
picture machines who might have unusual vaca-
tion pictures they would be glad to show.

In several instances adult clubs have under-
taken to sponsor junior groups, supplying leader-
ship and equipment. This has been done by choral
clubs and an archery group.

Can the Libraries Be of Further Help?

A very stimulating program which might be
initiated by local libraries was submitted by a
librarian in the county. The report stated in part':

“We have to offer——

“I. A place to read—books and magazines.

“2. A place to meet to hear lectures, speakers
and see exhibits.”

Can the libraries not initiate talks by talented
people in the community—architects, artists, mu-
sicians, writers, story tellers—as well as talks by
business men on vocations? These could be held
in the library whenever there is an available room
accompanied by book lists and displays on the
subjects to be shown at the time of the lecture.
In this way, potential users of the library could

(Continued on page 42)

How to Produce a Play

By J ACK STUART KNAPP

National Recreation Association

Poise, patience, perse-

verence - the "three p s
of play production.

HE ENTIRE production of a play lies in the

hands of the director. He is all important

and he must have certain qualifications to fill
his position with honor.

First, he must be a leader and have the power
of getting other people to do what he wants them
to do. Many people who know a great deal about
the theatre could never direct a play because at
the second rehearsal they would not have a cast.
One essential of leadership for a play director is
to know his business and know that he knows it,
at the same time keeping human and humane,
avoiding arrogance and self—satisfaction like the
plague.

The director must continually practise the
“three P’s” of play production—poise, patience,
and perseverance. At the conclusion of two pro-
ductions he will have attained them, or else he
will be seeking refuge in the nearest sanatorium!
The amateur actor acts only because he loves to
act; he isn’t being paid. Scolding, nagging, shout-
ing on the part of the director destroy the pleasure
of the actor and defeat their own purpose.

The successful director must love the theatre
and it‘s work so sincerely that it becomes contag-
ious, filling the actors with a desire to do their
utmost to make the production a great success.

He need not be an actor, but he should have an
appreciation of the art of acting and know the
simpler technique upon which the actor builds
his art.

He must know the fundamentals of stagecraft,
know something about make-up, lighting, scenery

16

In this issue of "Recreation" we present
the first of a series of articles prepar-
ed by Mr. Knapp on the arts and crafts
of play production for the inexperienced
director, forming in their entirety a pat-
tern for the direction of a play. It is not
to be assumed that these articles will
tell of the only method of production
possible. There are many ways of produc-
ing a play. A great many successful
directors, however, follow the pattern
drawn by these articles, most of them
unconsciously. Experience, plus trial and
error, has shown them there are certain
logical steps to take and certain rules
to follow.

and costuming. He need not be an expert on each
one, but he should know the fundamentals of
each in order to guide that phase of the
production.

Two Fundamental Principles

There are two general principles followed by
practically every successful director. The first one
is very brief, very simple, but hard for some
people to understand. It is simply this—the
director directs.

The word “director” means the person who is
directing. He is the “big boss,” the final authority
on all things. The director should make this clear
to his actors, not at’ the first rehearsal but at the
time of casting. Incidentally, he is the only one
who directs. A play with too many directors is
usually like the broth with too many cooks. He
must keep a certain amount of discipline at re-
hearsals. The good director is respected and liked
by his actors sufficiently to do this without un-
pleasantness. He should insist Upon the follow-
ing points :

I. Actors must do as told during the rehearsal.
If they have suggestions, they make them after
rehearsal. If accepted by the director, they can
be incorporated at the next rehearsal.

2. Rehearsals 'must start on time. If only one
actor is present the director can read lines 0p-
posite him until others arrive. Do not penalize
those who come on time for those who come late.

This will soon cure tardiness.
(Continued on page 42)

Today’s Nature Education

and

Tomorrow’s Leisure

By WILLIAM GOULD VINAL

Western Reserve University

0w SHALL the nature education of today

H with its lingering ambition for facts chained

to the pickled and desiccated biology of the

past be turned into service for the community
needs of tomorrow?

The present loafers are those Unfortunate in-
dividuals of yesterday who have not prepared for
today’s leisure time. Curbstone idling exists today
because a vast army of the unemployed cannot
turn toward nature recreation. They are hangers-
to-the-curbstone because they are not conscious
that there is anything interesting just beyond the
curbstone. In contrast, there is a much smaller
body of men trained and equipped for leisure who
in their early youth were infected with nature
longings, and are not "killing time.”

We may all of us share in the "four-H"
objectives of the new nature education-

healthful, helpful, happy, homely lives.

If anyone had acted twenty years ago as though
leisure, recreation or play could exist in biology,
physics or chemistry, he would have been dealt
with severely. The progressive nature study
teachers of today will see to it that children are
habituated in the enjoyment of parks, radios,
museums, camps, forests, fields, gardens and
streams in school days, that they may enjoy all
these pleasures in post-school days. To many
teachers of elementary science this movement will
necessitate a drastic change in methods, talents
and content.

Joyful participation in activities out-of-doors
is a highly desirable form of nature education.

 

18 TODAY’S NATURE EDUCATION AND TOMORROW’S LEISURE

The depression is a change.
We will always have change.
To change is one of nature’s
laws. Naturalists more than
any other people realize that
any change in the environ—
ment means a corresponding
change in the organisms in
that environment. If gravity
should change three pounds
it would become necessary to
change our baseball fields,
athletic records, stadiums,
barometers, airplanes, blood
pressure, muscles, nerve tis-
sue, school methods and
everything else. There are those who believe that
the depression is of enough gravity to merit the
thought of scientists as a whole, and of nature
teachers in particular. Those teachers who can
adapt themselves to the change will be the most
successful. The mastodon did not meet the
change. He is no more. Science teachers cannot
afford to be mastodons!

The New Nature Education

The new nature education is the training of
individuals in present day nature activities. It is
not participation in the whole gamut of nature
knowledge although knowledge may be an im-
portant by—product. Nature recreation, nature
conservation and natural laws fundamental to
health, are conspicuous activities in modern so-
ciety. The classification of the 575,000 kinds of
animals, the conjugation of algae, the malpighian
tUbules and tracheal systems fade rapidly in the
absence of dictation.

With the passing of the recitation there is
emerging what may be termed the “four-H” ob-
jectives which may be stated in one sentence as
healthful, helpful, happy, homely lives. Helpful
nature activities mean good citizenship in the
back yards, in the parks and along the roadway.
Happy objectives mean the full enjoyment of
what nature has to offer in these places, and
homely lives mean home hobbies with no aim
beyond the sheer joy of doing. As graduates we
earn the degree of HG, Health (or Handyman
or what will you) in the Garden; KB, Keeper of
Bees, or GF, Glad Faddist. And if these special
science diversions do not function there are thou-
sands of others with enough of adventure, mys-

"Life is much as it was in the days when
Keats 'Stood tiptoe upon a little hill,’
and Whitman sang 'What is this you bring,
my America?’ The old sources of ecstasy
still endure-nature, the achievements of
men, and the satisloctions of Friends and
lovers. What have we done to our young ers. The teacher who is to
people, that they cannot see and Feel it
For themselves? We have stifled their
imaginations. The source of: the emotions
lies in the imagination, and we, in our
mad pursuit of efficiency and science, are
neglecting the old, unchanging world, the
source of sustenance, the imagination."

Frances Clarke Sayers in "The World That
Does Not Change," —' Bulletin of the

American Library Association.

tery, danger, beauty or the
practical to satisfy the most
exacting.

Responsibility for this kind
of recreation rests on teach-

produce enthusiasm for lei-
sure time science must pos-
sess enthusiasm for leisure
time science. Many teachers
are masters of scientific
knowledge when it is in a
book, but have no time for
science when it is out-of-
doors. The leisure time ad-
vocate must be one who has
had eiperience, satisfaction and enjoyment in the
field. Joyful participation in activities in the Open
is the only way to promote desirable emotional
tone. Nature recreation requires skilled leader-
ship. Most people who go to the woods do not
know what to see, what to hear, or what to think.
That is why the government has ranger natural-
ist service in our national parks. Through years
of patient effort there have likewise been teachers
who have stood for those types of nature activi-
ties that satisfy diversified human wants. That
kind of interpretation of the outdoors has be-
come an increasingly important service.

Whole-hearted promotion of nature recreation
is going to upset the school time schedule. In
life eight hour shifts for work, play and sleep are
things of the past with leisure time ever on the
long end. In school with eight hours to sleep and
two to eat, the work day was five hours and
the leisure day, nine. There was no thought of
teaching Jack to play for that might make him a
lazy boy. With Saturday, Sunday and holidays
there was a generous allowance of leisure, making
the school leisure week far in excess of the school
work week. The school never grasped the idea
that here was an opportunity for education. As
a result we have been caught unprepared for the
amount of leisure that has been thrust upon us.
We find ourselves in the peculiar position of time
off with no power to assimilate.

If science is extinguishing work at one end of
the day, it is equally capable of creating worth
while leisure at the other end of the day. Science
has not made good that which it has taken away.
This does not mean necessarily that one-half of
the biology period should be devoted to work and
the other half to leisure time activity. It is not

TODAY’S NATURE EDUCATION AND TOMORROW’S LEISURE ~ 19

 necessarily a dual system. To some children the
making of a bird house would be work and to
others a great sport. Genuine interest is the goal
which makes the work play. Edison is reported
to have said: “I think that I have never done a
day’s work in my life.” Science teachers are on
the threshold of a new age.

Furthermore, nature appreciation is not a chap-
ter to be learned. It necessarily is a result of ex-
perienccs with interesting things, outdoor pro-
cedures, and distinctive attitudes in the presence
of certain natural aspects and activities. The
Scouts have worth while leisure time experiences
in nature. The playground leaders have to teach
nature play. Schools have been delinquent and
that is why the scouting and playground organi-
zations have had to come to the rescue. Schools
will also have to provide experiences. Apprecia-
tion will never come from listening to teacher
talk. Science experiences for leisure have be-
come the serious task of educators. “The law of
nature is that a certain quantity of work is neces-
sary to produce a certain quantity of good. If
you want knowledge you must toil for it; if food,
you must toil for it, and if pleasure, you must
toil for it.” What Ruskin could have said was
that if we want leisure time science there must
be a background for it.

We can go one step further and say that nature
recreation takes care of the unemployed psychi-
cally as well as physically. There is a long road
ahead but there are shade trees, song birds and
clover fields if they can be brought within our
perspective. When one gets out onto life’s high-
way how much is he going to think biologically
and how much ‘is he going to feel biologically? A
sunset, a lake, a mountain, a waterfall, will com-
mand feelings, and perhaps in a larger percent
than thinking. And then there are the sunsets of
tomorrow and those of the fall that are different.
The feelings that one experiences in nature are
potent counter-irritants for hectic times.

Nature Study As Recreation

There is ample evidence that nature study can
be employed for recreational purposes. This is
so obvious that there is no need of any technique

of research to qualify the statement. In any large.

city one can find a lawyer-naturalist, teacher-
naturalist, an artist-naturalist, a doctor-naturalist,
a shoemaker-naturalist, a bank clerk-naturalist, an
insurance agent-naturalist, and so on. All of them
are more than ordinary naturalists. Leisure yearn-

ings in me may demand a bird hike, in you, time
off to read Van Loon, and in Roosevelt, a trip to
Africa. The report of any of these amateurs
shows that nature recreation compared with other
forms of recreation is less expensive; that it is
more functional, in that it can be enjoyed in all
seasons of the year; that it is more enduring, in
that it can be continued throughout life; that it is
more satisfying in that it can be carried on with-
out nerve strain, and that it is democratic, in that
it builds good citizenship.

If the census records could show hobbies it
would undoubtedly be discovered that bird hobby-
ists, camera fans, flower amblers, and all the
members of other nature ilks are increasing more
rapidly than population. This trend is a matter
of opinion but there is ample testimony in the
membership of nature clubs, in the attendance at
nature lectures and trips, in the circulation of
science books from the library, in newspaper fea-
ture stories, and in daily conversations.

Nor is leisure time science foreign to the daily
life of any family, not even in the humblest home.
The housekeeper who arranges daffodils with
yellow candles to match; the father who studies
about flowers for the border of the walk; the girl
who cuddles her puppy; the boy who is thrilled
by the story of Lindbergh or Byrd, has as sin-
cerely the appreciation of nature as the Agassiz,
Whittier or Burroughs. Pe0ple who enjoy their
lawns, gardens and peonies are ample evidence of
science leisure from youth to old age. Scientific
procedure and adjustments are continuously being
made at the table, in the living room, in the back
yard, at the bird bath, when we go out to the
grocery and when we sit in church. It would take
a shrewd man to itemize and classify the ramifi-
cations of human ejoyment to be found in nature.

The teacher of leisure time science must be led
to realize that the curriculum for his instruction is
the sum total of the leisure time activities that
already exist in the community. He must be con-
scious of beautiful homes, the highest purpose of
parks, and the thousands of human values that
rank higher than knowledge values. By intro-
ducing children to interests in nature literature,
by developing appreciations of the landscape, by
launching natural science clubs, teachers are
adapting their course to the needs of the
community.

The greatest contribution of science to leisure

time can'be that of bringing us into contact with
(Continued on page 43)

Boys’
Week

April 29—May 6
I 9 3 3

ROM APRIL 29TH 'ro MAY 6TH organizations
F throughout the world will celebrate Boys’
Week
In 1920 Boys’ Week originated with the Rotary
Club in New York City. The following year six
large cities carried out the Boys’ Week plan. In
1923 the week was reported from 608 cities. Nine
years later, in 1932, Boys’ Week was observed
generally throughout the world.

The Boys’ Week in our own country is held.

under the auspices of the National Boys’ Week
Committee for the United States. The commit-
tee has issued a manual of suggestions for the
1933 program which will be of interest to recre-
ation workers.

Suggestions for Organization

The manual suggests a method of organizing
for the week which involves an advisory council
in each community of boys’ workers and 'repre-
sentatives of business men’s organizations and
similar groups. From this council or similar or—
ganization a boys’ week committee should be
selected to be made up of one representative from
different distinctive groups of boys’ workers, both
volunteers and professionals. A chairman and
secretary should be chosen who will be the key
men of Boys’ Week.

20

 

A week when atten-
tion is focussed on
boyhood as a great
world asset and the
entire nation can-
siders its boys.

The plan of organization also provides for the
appointment of committees for the various “days,”
for a publicity committee and other committees
which may be needed.

The Program

Boys’ Loyalty Day. On the opening day,
April 29th, will come the parade, the most ef-
fective day’s feature of the week which provides
the greatest opportunity to demonstrate the boy
power of the community. It marks the opening
of the achievement exhibition or the hobby fairs
and pet shows which have been so successfully
promoted in connection with Boys’ Weeks of
previous years.

Boys’ Day in the Churches. On Sunday,
April 30th, clergymen will preach special sermons
and in many communities there will be a special
evening service for the boys held in at least one
church. Special broadcasts may be provided
throughout the day and evening.

Boys’ Day in Industry. On Monday, May
1st, groups of school boys will visit the various
types of industries in the community. Talks will
be given before high school students on essentials
for success in business, and business men will act

( Continued on page 44)

The Girl
in the

Settlement Prog ram

By DELITE M. MOWER

Director of Girls' Work
Henry Street Settlement

OR MANY YEARS settlements have been looked
F upon as great centers for socializing diverg-
ent groups and for the protection and train—
ing of our young people of the neighborhood.
This is especially true in the overcrowded sec-
tions of our larger cities, which glow with the
glamor and romance associated with racial cus-
toms preserved from emigrant days. Many have
found in the settlement expression, personal de-
velopment and guidance, which are strengthened
through association and comradeship with the
people who come tOgether with a mutual desire
for personal expression and a greater purpose—
that of introducing the new interests and awak-
ening possibilities that offer a means of achiev—
ing courage and knowledge for a broader outlook
on life.
The Settlement Pragram
And thus the settlement program is built—
broad and flexible—to include a place for each
member of the family and encourage human re-
lationship development in the community from
the tiny child to the grandparents; none is over-
looked. Each department is organized for the
specialized needs of certain age limits, from the
preschool and kindergarten child on through
later years, by the wide avenues of the boys’ and
girls’ departments, including a group of tots called
Midgets, from six to nine years of age; Juniors
from ten to fourteen years; Upper Juniors from
fourteen to sixteen years; Intermediates from

 

Courtesy Ministry of Hygiene and Physical Education, Czechoslovakia

The objective—that girls may find happiness
and opportunity for personality development.

sixteen to eighteen years, and the Senior grOUp
from eighteen to twenty years, with the Young
Adult groups from twenty years on. From this
point on the approach is made to the Adult Clubs.
The membership includes the parents and rela-
tives of the children who are integrated into the
divisions mentioned.

The club, of course, is in many instances the
main contact or the avenue of approach through

'which much of the training is given through ed-

ucational and recreational programs. Whenever a
child or adult is found to have special gifts along
any line, he or she is encouraged by the leader to
enter classes in arts and crafts, music and drama,
where talents may be developed to the utmost.
Later scholarships, some in universities, are
awarded.

While the Visiting Nurse Service ministers to
the care of the sick and the general health of the
neighborhood, there is in addition a psychiatrist
who studies the children and tries to adjust them
to the activities to which they are best suited,
This service proves valuable not only to little
children, but the results are far reaching as they
influence character and personality adjustments
with the more advanced groups.

( Continued on page 45)
21

 

Squares
d'Enfants

is the name which has been applied to the

five play areas which have been opened in
Paris largely through funds given by Mrs. Elise
Stern of San Francisco. The name is said to have
originated with Professor LeMee, an eminent
Paris physician, after he had visited some squares
reserved for children in Holland. An appeal for
a similar provision of play space for the children
of Paris brought a response from Mrs. Stern in
the form of a gift of one million francs.

The first of the Paris squares, opened on April
5, 1930, aroused much interest and attracted many
notable visitors, among them the Queen of the
Belgians. Since the first square became a reality,
four others have been opened in different parts
of the city on land made available by the city of
Paris. A sixth is now under consideration. The
popularity of these squares is indicated by the
fact that during the month of August, 1932, from
eight to nine thousand children attended each of
the playgrounds.

Boys and girls from two to six years of age
are admitted to the squares each day from 8:00

22

S QUARES D’ENFANTS,” or children’s squares,

Play areas for little children win

well deserved popularity in Paris.

A. M. to 7 :30 P. M. Older children up to twelve
years of age may also attend but only after school
and on Tuesdays. Children may come only when
accompanied by their parents and may leave only
when their parents call for them.

The children are under the care of leaders who
have completed special studies and are graduate
nurses. Their presence alone is a guarantee of
safe and sanitary conditions on the grounds. They
are well qualified to take care of the needs of chil-
dren who are injured or who have minor illnesses.
But they are there especially as a preventive meas-
ure for it is one of their chief responsibilities to
see that no child convalescing from a contagious
disease enters the grounds. A relationship has
been established between the schools and the
playgrounds which is very helpful in the pre-
vention of contagious diseases and which pro-
vides an exchange of information, making it im-
possible for children from families suffering from
contagious diseases to come to the grounds.

Other careful sanitary hygienic precautions are
taken. The sand with which the children play is

(Continued on page 46)

 

Gardening as a Recreation

HERE FACES us today one of
T the greatest of public needs

-——the profitable utilization
of leisure.’

Shall we offer as a solution a
few amusements of passing in—
terest and of no permanent value or personal sat-
isfaction? America and her enforced leisure de-
mand more than this. A new world of recreation
must be opened to her—one that offers rich re-
turns, both spiritual and material

For such a recreation we turn to nature and
the garden, the oldest and richest of the world’s
unexplored realms.

The idea of gardening as a recreation is new
to those who have long thought of it as a form
of labor. As a matter of fact, gardening is no
more strenuous, perhaps not as much so, as the
games that are commonly used on the play-
grounds. The difiiculty is that gardening has
never been presented in its true light of fun, ad-
venture, discovery, and keen competition with re-
wards that are rich in every sense of the word.
And so in April or May when playground activi-
ties are offered to each school, the “game of gar—
dening” should be intriguingly presented.

The preparation for gardening as a playground
activity is not so difficult. If your town has a
thrift garden committee, as so many have, ask the
committee to assist you in securing the use of
empty lots in various neighborhoods to be used
as attractive garden plots for those who desire
them. This thrift garden committee, cooperating
with garden clubs and other civic organizations,
will undoubtedly assist in the enterprise by fur-
nishing seeds and plants for those who desire
them. If they must be purchased, the Children’s
Flower Mission at Cleveland, Ohio, or the Agri—
cultural Department at
Washington, D. C., will
furnish them at minimum
cost.

Many nurseries will also
be glad to cooporate by

furnishing seeds in quantity New York City.

By FAB HUTTENLOCHER

Organizer
Junior Garden Clubs of America

Des Moines, Iowa.

"Gardening should be a part of the educa-
tion of every child. Indeed, if a child had
no other part of an education save that
which he needed to make a garden flourish

he would be {well educated," Angeio Patri,

at low cost. Paid labor from
the Welfare Bureau or Park
Department might be secured to
plow or spade the ground. Or
appreciative parents may assist
in this matter. Further prepa-
ration of the soil as a seed bed should be made
by each gardener.

The Junior Garden Clubs Plan

An adult garden club member, a teacher or
representative of the Playground Department
should present gardening as an alluring game at
an assembly period of the entire school. This can
be done through the Junior Garden Club illus-
trated lecture, “Through the Gardens of Gnome-
land with the Junior Garden Clubs of America,”
which is sent' for postage charges only to any who
desire to organize Junior Garden Clubs.

Each child is given a card or multigraphed slip
to take home for parents to sign. On this slip the
Playground Department or other group in charge
of the city’s recreation program gives the location
of the garden plot to be used in that neighborhood
together with any requirements or instructions
presented in connection with its maintenance and
care. There is a place to designate a choice of
vegetable and flower seeds with prices and direc—
tions for securing. These cards should be re-
turned signed by parents before the last of April
in order that necessary garden preparations may
be made and seeds ordered.

To add further to the attractiveness of the idea,
each plot will have its Junior Garden Club. Meet—
ings will be held at the garden or park under the
guidance of a playground leader or an adult gar-
den club member of the civic committee. Officers
will be elected as in a regular club. Such an or-
ganization will greatly stim-
ulate interest and pride in
each garden.

There may be a competi-

tion between the various
Junior Garden Clubs and

( Continued on page 46)
23

Why Not Grow Your Own Vegetables?

A plea for o more universal
surrender for the attraction

the brown earth has for man.

cupations, gardening is at least very old. Our

northern ancestors had their kale, or cole, or
cabbage. Naked natives in New Zealand cooked
spinach with their meat. Egypt loved the spicy
flavor of onions, leeks, and garlic. The Israelites
missed them in their desert wanderings. In
Mexico and South America a dark race conserved
for us the best of their corn, beans, tomatoes and
potatoes. We are the heirs of all the ages. A seed
is a frail thing, but these survived all perils. We
owe it to posterity to transmit at least as good as
we receive. It may be by saving seed from extra
good vegetables that you can even become a link
in the chain of improvement.

Practically all cool-season crops, except pota-
toes, are a heritage from the lighter races, our
fathers and others. These —lettuce, radishes,
onions, carrots, beets, parsnips, cabbage, peas, sal-
sify, celery, chard and spinach—we plant early.
Warm-season crops, on the other hand, are a her-
it'age from the darker races, and many of them
come from the Indians. These include corn, beans,
tomatoes, peppers, egg plants, cucumbers, melons,
pumpkins, squashes and sweet potatoes. Potatoes,
also, though a cold—season crop, were given us by
the dark races.

IF NOT, as in the Eden story, the oldest of all oc-

A Kitchen Garden for Every Family

Every family should have a small kitchen gar-
den for a number of good reasons. It need not
be wholly a vegetable garden, for no matter how
small it will be large enough for both the eatable
vegetables and the smellable flowers. What is im-
portant is to have the whole family interested in
the garden, and it is the vegetable department

which usually helps to engage the sympathy of
some members who might otherwise be lukewarm.

24

By R. P MILLER
Gardener for the Wyomissing Industries

Reading, Pennsylvania

One problem in every home is to provide suf-
ficient quantities of healthful, palatable and
wholesome food for family use. The food value
of vegetables in a diversified diet is now quite
generally recognized as of fundamental impor;
tance to health. Vegetables are rich in the min-
erals and vitamins that doctors and dieticians
have found to be essential in the growth and de-
development of children and the maintenance of
health in the adult. So, if the health of the family
is to be maintained at its highest standard, Vege-
tables in abundance must be provided.

Probably the most important reason for main-
taining a vegetable garden is that of economy, a
point which today cannot be overemphasized. It

 

Courtesy The Yarn Carrier

WHY NOT GROl/V YOUR OWN VEGETABLES? 25

will reduce the grocery bill materially by per-
mitting a substitution of vegetables in some cases
for the more expensive foods; it will supply the
family with vegetables for canning, drying and
for winter storage. An example of the dollars
and cents value of a garden may be judged from
the yield on one of the garden lots of Textile
Machine \Vorks last year. Starting very late and
benefiting only by the second crops, on soil that
was hitherto uncultivated, one gardener kept a
record of the produce he raised, and when trans-
lated into the lowest market price of the season
the value of the vegetables taken from his 20 by
40 lot was 15.5. These figures are net, all expenses
deducted.
The Recreational Value

Another reason for keeping a garden is the
pleasant outdoor recreation it offers. As a means
of healthy exercise, it SUrpasses golf; for excite—
ment, it leads croquet; as a speculation, it beats
poker. It develops mind, muscle and conscience.
If it develops the appetite, it also supplies the
wherewithal] to satisfy it.

Then, too, all vegetables are more tasty, as well
as more valuable from a dietary standpoint when
fresh. If you have ever eaten sweet corn which
had been lying about for a while, you have noticed
the contrast with the fresh product. As soon as

A garden solves a number of problems by pro-
viding both fresh veqetables and recreation!

 

In many cities gardening is being pro-
moted as a relief measure for the un-
employed and as an economic necessity.
Mr. Miller, in this practical article re-
printed from the March issue of The
Yarn Carrier, points out not only the
economic advontages of gardening, but
tbs recreational values as well.

“any people are urging that recreotion
departments do more to promote
gardening. Why not begin this year?

 

corn is picked, its sugar begins at once to change
to starch. No one knows the true flavor of corn
who has not seen it come smoking hot to the table
within half an hour from the time it was growing
on the stalk.

Besides 0111' genuine interest in providing food
for the table, there seems to be a certain attrac-
tion that the brown earth has for man. The love
of gardening is perhaps a heritage from our an—
cestors. Even the planning of a garden provides
a thrill. Of all the literature of the year there is
nothing which compares with the fascination of
the annual seed catalogue! What a pleasure the
gardener experiences with these books; he sees,
somewhere between his own garden and his own
imagination, those luscious red tomatoes without
a single watery seed-cell, those heads of tender
white lettuce the size of a derby hat and those
delicate string beans. The bright anticipations of
seed sowing are, in themselves, a greater happi-
ness than one often purchases with many times
the price.

\Vith the ample leisure which we find forced
upon us, there is possibly no more practical or
enjoyable hobby we can devote our time to. All
the labor and cash investment we make in a gar-
den will be repaid, for gardening, like every other
virtue, is its own reward.

Where to Make a Garden

The city—lot gardener usually has little choice
in the matter of location, and must use whatever
space is available, while the rural gardener has
more selection. But take the best site you can
get; do not be too particular. Pluck and perse-
verance can make a garden wherever weeds will
grow. Avoid shady places and ground in which
tree roots have spread. Gardens should have at

26 WHY NOT GROW YOUR OWN VEGETABLES?

least fIve or six hours of sun daily. Do not select
low, Wet land unless you can drain it.

The garden should be as near to your house as
possible. Many an odd moment can be spent in
working a nearby garden when there would be no
time to go to a distant one.

It is good to make a plan of your garden on
paper. You have then a guide and a goal. You
need to decide first, however, which way the rows
shall run, what crops to grow, the part’ of the
garden where each is to go and the distance
between the rows.

Decide first in what direction the rows shall
run. It is advisable for the amateur gardener to
have the rows run the short way; that is, if your
lot is 20 by 40, plan your rows for 20 feet long.
They should also run north and south so that the
plants will shade one another less and therefore
grow more rapidly. Allow in your planning for
vegetables with spreading tops.’ Knowing the size
of your lot and the space required for each vege-
:able, you can determine what seed to plant and
the number of rows of each. With this informa-
tion you can buy your seeds intelligently. Try to
buy good seeds, even if they cost more—remem-

ber they are expensive because their production
is costly.

There are many things to think about in select-
ing the crOps that shall be grown, some of which
are the size of the garden, your soil and your
skill in gardening.

The most important thing of all is to plant
these crops which are most valuable as food.
Gardens should not be planned by family tastes
only, but the family should strive to modify its
tastes to include all vegetables. We should have
a continuous supply of the leaf crops, lettuce,
spinach, cabbage, beet greens, and chard. These
are especially rich in iron, which is one of the
substances our bodies need, and in vitamins. Snap
beans, although not a leaf vegetable, are similar in
nutritive value. Gardens should also contain gen-
erous amounts of carrots, beets, onions, and tur—
nips, a few parsnips and salsify, and, if large
enough, corn, peas, squashes and potatoes. Rad-
ishes and cucumbers have very little food value
and are eaten only for the pleasant taste. The
most important vegetable in the garden is the
tomato, which should be part of our diet the
year round.

GARDEN PLAN FOR A FAMILY OF FIVE
SUGGESTED BY THE BERKS COUNTY AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION ASSOCIATION

JUNE 20 TO
JULY I TO l5

§

(2.58 3 g.
177% gig 5°“ 53
:02 3°- 93] \v
ulq: 8 m— uh. u—
O_J 3  3L 
09-- I— n'l- «I z!—'
:3 I— 4n. i-Q —L
O) 3 3': 3?. 5n
‘3;

E

L1.

6 Flt—lye PT.
SWISS cmno

l%.FI—'l oz.
EARLY BEETS

ONION SETS
2 FT-— I QT
PEAS

3 Ft—yz oz.

TURNIPS

 

N0 SUCCESSION OF CROPS

20 FT

N'
O
V?
:2
[LI
m
2
3
o
:3
o
._-
III.
\‘1’
N

CUCUMBERS a SQUASH
6 VIZ-"40 PLANTS

4 FT.-6 PLANTS
BRUSSELS SPROUTS
LATE CABBAGE

EARLY CARROTS

SNAP BEANS

4 F T.— l PT.
TOMATOES

"Making
the
_Wall"

A new and popular
activity in .a boys'
club in Milwaukee

 

A silhouette on the wall is proof at regular
attendance at this boys' club in Milwaukee

HE MILWAUKEE, Wisconsin, School Extension

Department has a boys’ club which has un— . ,
dertaken a project very popular with the the entire membership of the club, each member'

members. This consists of making silhouettes for cutting his Own' The Shadow for the drawmg is
produced by the light from a stereopticon. The
Carving out his nickname or the name of his silhouettes are mounted on the wall of the club
club is an occupation any boy would enioy! room, and to “make the wall,” a boy must have a
_.. record of regular attend-

ance.

Another project is the
making of club name and
nickname boards. The
letters are drawn by the
leaders, but the rest of the
work is done by the boys
who take very great pride
in making the boards and
hanging them on the walls
of the club room.

The Milwaukee boys’
clubs are having a remark-
able eEect on their mem-
bers. A large part of the
improvement in social con-
sciousness and social be-
havior in the whole school,
according to the principal
of one school where clubs
are in operation, is attrib-
uted to the club activities.

 

27

 

Recreations and Amusements

of the
Colonial Period

By EDWARD D. GREENWOOD
' University of Colorado

HAT AMUSEMENT was scorned and forbidden
Tin the Colonial period not only because it in-

vited “the mind to sin” but because it lessened
the time and energy for making a living is evi-
denced in the writings of the time. Not only was
leisure not wanted but there was none. This lack
of leisure became an important contributing fac-

tor to retard the development of recreation and

amusements in New England. Not until the late
seventeenth and early eighteenth century were the
inhabitants permitted to think of amusements and
actually participate in recreative activity. “Cards
and the theater were under all circumstances a
waste of precious time, and therefore wholly
banned. . . . William Clark, the Salem publican,
was advised by the Quarter Court ‘to forbear be-
ing offensive in suffering a shuffling board in his
house, occasioning misspending of time.’ ” 1

Legislation prohibiting time-consuming and sin-
ful amusements was accompanied by various
forms of punishment. On the Sabbath recreation
was forbidden even to children.

“Among the first laws passed was one enacted in

1631, prohibiting cards and dice, and a law was
subsequently passed im-
posing a fine for bringing
'them into the country or
for being found in posses-
sion of them. Dancing in
houses of common enter-
tainment was also pro-
hibited, and indeed danc-
ing in any place was not
favored.” 2

28

offered in

The forms of recreation which the Colonial
settlers enioyed have always been a matter
of interest. Edward T. Greenwood, in a thesis
partial fulfillment of the-require-
‘ments for the degree of Master of Arts in
the School of Education, New York University,
presents a study of the beginnings of physical
and social activities in this country. Through
Mr. Greenwood's courtesy we are enabled to
publish a number of extracts from his thesis.

When recreation was forbidden be-
cause it "invited the mind to sin"
and interfered with making a living.

One must not assume, however, that prohibi-
tions were more effective in 1631 than they are
three hundred years later. Nor must one form an
erroneous concept of New England life. The
habits of drinking and gambling were not un-
known. There were shooting and hunting parties
for exterminatng wolves and bears.3 Quilting
parties were common means of amusement. The
young people had apple bees and cornhusks. Dur-
ing cornhusking time if a young man would find
a red ear of corn, he had the privilege of kissing
the girl of his choice. Kissing was not a rare
form of entertainment at evening parties not only
in New England but in all the colonies.‘

Those amusements, such as quilting parties,
cornhusks and apple bees, which had the dual pur-
pose of accomplishing work and at the same time
affording some diversion, were the most popular
in the New England colonies.

The Middle Colonies

In the middle colonies, predominantly under the
Dutch influence, the family was a solid unit.
Many forms of recreation centered around the
family. There was many
family festivals. The Tav-
erns were a universal
meeting place for the older

 

1. Moriscn, S. E.——Those Misun-
derstood P u r i t a n 3. Forum-
Mayaza’ne, March, 1931, p. 145.

2. Howe, D. W.--The Puritan
Republic of the Massachusetts
Bay in New England, p. 111.

. Ibid, p. 110.

3
4. Earle, A. M.—Colonial Days.
in Old New York, p. 216.

 

RECREATIONS OF THE COLONIAL PERIOD 29

men and a place where the younger people could
come and dance.‘5

The indoor games of dice, cards, shufHe-board,
tick-tacking, and trock table were the p0pular
games of the period, while bowls was the out-
standing outdoor game.

“Shume—board or shovel board is an indoor
game played by two or four persons with iron
weights which are slid along a board sprinkled
with fine sand. The board is 30 feet long, with
slightly raised edges to keep the weights from
sliding off sidewise.” 3

Tick-tack was a complicated form of backgam—
mon. “The Compleat Gamester” tells us that
tick—tack is so called from touch and take, for if
you touch a man must play through even if you
lose. “Tick—tacking” was prohibited during time
of divine service in New Amsterdam in 1656.7 A
trock table was much like a pool table, on which.
an ivory ball was struck under a wire wicket by a
cue. Trock was also played in the grass. Mrs.
Earle tells of a Dutch tapster who had a trock
table, which Florio designates as “a kind of game
used in England with casting little bowles at a
board with thirteen holes in it.” 3

Bowls, an outdoor game, was played on a bowl-
ing green on which the turf was closely shaven
and rolled, surrounded by a shallow trench. A
small round white ball, called the Jack, is placed
at one end, and the object of the players is to roll

their bowls so that they shall stop as nearly as
possible to this mark.° Nine pins were originally
used in the game of bowls but as the game was
conducive to excessive betting, it was outlawed.
Legend has it that a tenth pin was added to evade
the law.10 Bowling Green at the lower end of
New York received its name from this game.

The Amusements of the Dutch

The Dutch indulged in more festivals and holi-
days than any of the other colonists. Vrouwen
dagh or Women’s day was celebrated by every
young girl sallying forth in the morning armed
with a heavy cord with a knotted end. She gave
every young man whom she met several smart
lashes with this knotted cord. 3” Might these be
love taps? This day is claimed to have its origin
in St. Valentine’s day. 12 ,

Shrove Tuesday was another day of celebra-
tion. Men dressed in women’s clothing and

5. Wiley and Rincs, The United States, Vol. 2, p. 167.

6. The Young Fofk: Cyclopaedia of Game: and Sports.
J. D. Champh’n, Jr. and A. E. Bostwick. H. Holt 8: Co..
1). 111

7. Earle, A. M.—Child Life in Cotom’al Days, p. 200.

8. Ibi'd., p. 209.

9. The Young Folks Cyclopacdia of Games and Sportshp. 111.

10. Fice, E. A.—A Brief History of Physic-a! Education, pp.
45-6.

11. Earle, A. M.—-—Co!ouiaz Day: in Old New York, pp. 191-2.

12. Ibid., p. 101.

Quilting parties, so popular in the New England
Colonies, find a modern counterpart in Chicago.

 

30 RECREATIONS OF THE COLONIAL PERIOD

paraded about with noisy toys. One of these toys
was the Rommelyertiesn or little rumbling pots.
Pulling the Goose and Cock-Fighting were two
of the amusements indulged in on Shrove Tues-
day. Pulling the Goose “was a cruel amusement.
The thoroughly greased goose was hung between
two poles, and the effort of the sport was to
catch, snatch away, and hold fast the poor
creature while passing at a great speed.” 13 Dur—
ing the eighteenth century Shrove Tuesday was
devoted to cock-fighting, although this sport in
general was more com-
mon in the southern
colonies.

May Day was an-
other day of jubilation.
“Stuyvesant forbade
‘drunken drinking,’ and
firing of guns and
planting of maypoles,
as productive of bad
practices.” 1“ However,
the May Day festival
continued and at the
present time we have
the parks opened to
children of the city
schools for the celebra-
tion of this day by in-
dulging in May Pole
dances.

New Year’s Day was
devoted to noise and re-
joicing. In New York
men used this day to
gather in parties and
travel down to “Beck-
mann’s Swamp to shoot tur-
key.” 15 Guy Fawkes Day was
another day which was en-
j oyed by gun-firing and bon—
fires. On Thanksgiving Day besides the feast,
begging boys were part of the day’s fun.

It is interesting to note that Samuel Sewall in
his Diary on the date of April 23, 1704, or Lord’s
Day, makes the following comment: “There is
Great Firing at the Town, Ships, Castle upon
account of its being Coronation Day, which gives
offence to many. See the Lord’s Day so
profan’d.” 1“

Pinkster’s Day was a holiday on which the ,

negroes had a jubilee. The singing of African
airs would start the day, then this would be fol-

 

The May Day festival survived the early
ban of disapproval and is with us today.

lowed by the dancing of the SamDos and Phillises,
juvenile and antiquated, who did the double,
shuffle heel and toe-break down. For musical ac-
companiment they used a drum constructed out
of a box with a sheepskin head. The drinking of
rum, rioting, and general disorder would end the
day. The aftermath of this holiday would be that
many of the colored folk would be brought to
court for disorderly conduct. 1"

Besides these holidays there were days devoted
to excursions which were organized by social
clubs for the younger
folk. These excursions
would consist of either
boat or wagon rides.
John Fiske says:

“In the olden times
society in New York
as elsewhere got up
with the dawn, took its
dinner at noon, and de-
voted its evenings to
recreation. Sleighing
parties in winter and
fishing picnics in sum—
mer were c o m m o n
amusements, and there
were private theatri-
cals, as well as balls
and concerts.” 13

Tea Gardens and
Marionette shows were
also found in New
York. Illustrated lec—
tures became part of
the recreation of .the
period. There were such
things as curious animals,
wax-works, and Philosophical
Optical machines were also
part of the entertainment. 1”

Turtle frolics and Waffle frolics were two other
forms of amusement which were common. The
turtle frolics were enjoyed in seaport communi-
ties, such as New York, Newport, and Provi—
dence. The turtle was prepared by a special cook-
ing process. After the feast there would be

 

13. Earle, A. M.——Co!om'a! Days in Old New York, p. 189.

14. Ibid., p. 188.
15. Ibid., p. 186.

16. Sewall, S.—The Diary of Samuel Sewall, 1674-1729.
Vol. 2, p. 101.

17. Earle, A. M.——Co!om'a! Days in Old New York, p. 196.

18. F iske, J.—The Dutch and Quaker Colonies in America.
Vol. 2. p. 283.

19. Earle, A. M.——Co!om‘a! Days in Old New York, p. 212.

RECREATIONS OF THE COLONIAL PERIOD 31

dancing which was followed by serenading as
each one left for home. The Waffle frolic was
similar in nature except that card playing and
dancing girls were added.

The English and French Influence

As the English and French influence became
greater in the middle colonies, the amusements
and recreations increased, and along with such
recreations as singing, theater, dancing, feasting,
shooting, ice-skating, and sleighing, there were
such sports as fishing, golf, tennis, cricket, cock-
lighting, bull baiting, and horse-racing.

Bull baiting was a very barbarous sport. “It
consisted in causing a bull to be attacked by dogs,
and to increase the fury, his nose was sometimes
blown full of pepper. Another form of the sport
was to fasten the bull to a stake by a long rope,
and to set bull dogs at him, one at a time, which
were trained to seize him by the nose. An art
called pinning the bull.” 2°

Horse-racing was very popular in New York.
As early as I666 Long Island had horse-racing.
Even Puritan New England was interested in
horse-racing. However, the New Englanders
plac_ed such severe penalties upon those who took
part in horse-racing and betting that the sport
never became very popular.

Ice skating, ice boating, and sleighing were
part of the winter program which the young boys
and men enjoyed. The popular style of skating
of the colonial days was figure skating.

Music Enters

The singing of church music was the means by
which music entered the colonies. The victory of
the ardent advocates of the
“singing by rules” also aided
in establishing singing schools
in New England. 21 Conrad
Beissel of Phil-
a d e 1 p h i a is
claimed to be
the first com-
poser of music
in A m e r i c a.
About I,000 of
the hymns in
the E p h r a t a
edition printed
by Benjamin
Franklin in
I730 are attri-

A

At the end of the eighteenth century
dancing was well established and many
varieties of dances were being taught.

 

buted to him.”2 Later old dance tunes such as
Sweet Anna Page, Babbling Echo, Little Pickle,
were set to sacred words. Music grew in popu-
larity, and the first American musical organiza-
tion was founded in Charleston, in I762. The
name of the organization was the St. Cecilia So-
ciety. In New York the first record of a concert
was as early as I736. A Harmonic Society was
in existence in 1774. 23 The ability to play or
sing was considered a fashionable accomplish-
ment which young ladies and men were supposed
to possess. The popular instruments were the
violin, flute, organ, clarinet, bassoon, spinet,
harpsichord, and pianoforte. The harpsichord
and spinet were very popular until the invention
of the pianoforte. The pianoforte is “percussion
instrument consisting of wire strings struck by
felt covered hammers operated by keys arranged
in a key board.” 2‘

Interest in Dancing Grows

Another form of amusement which is generally
allied with music is dancing. Dancing was con-
sidered dangerous and in I684 Increase Mathew
preached a sermon against what he termed:
“Gynecandrical Dancing or that which is com-
monly called Mixt or Promiscuous Dancing of
men and women, be they elder or younger persons
together.” He called it the great sin of the
Daughters of Zion, and he burst forth: “Who
were the Inventors of Petulant Dancings?
Learned men have well observed that the Devil
was the First Inventor of the impleaded Dances,
and the Gentiles who worshipped him the first
practioners of this Art.”

However, this and other opposition did not stop
the growth of interest in
dancing and at the end of the
eighteenth century schools of
dancing were organized and

 

20. The New Inter-
national Ency-
clo aedia. See-
on Edition,

Vol. 4, p. 145.

21. Earle, A. M. —
Sabbath in Puri»

tan New Eng-
land, p. 217.

22. Downes, 0. —-
A Survey of Our
American Music
New Y ark Times,
May 10, 1931.

23. The New Inter-
national Ency-

clapaedia, Vol.
18, p. 595.

24. Earle, A. M. -:-
Child Life tn
Colanial Day-9:

pp. 109-110.

32 RECREATIONS OF THE COLONIAL PERIOD

 

fiourished. There was a large
variety of dances taught.
Rigadoons and paspies were
taught in Philadelphia by a Signor Sodi. The
Spanish fandango was taught by a John Walsh.
Other modish dances were the De La Cours,
Devonshire Jiggs, Allmand Vally’s, and Minuets.
Complicated contra dances were many in number
and quaint in name; Clinton’s Retreat, Blue Bon-
nets, Preist’s House, The Orange Tree, The In-
nocent Maid, and A Successful Campaign. 25
These group dances might be considered the folk
dances of this Country.

“The Virginia Reel has been considered by
many as the most representative American folk-
dance, whereas it is nothing more nor less than
the well-known popular English country-dance
known as Sir de Coverly, and can hardly be
classed among the more typically American coun-
try dances which have either evolved or origi-
nated here. 23

Another bit of evidence which might aid in
verifying this statement is that the English Folk
Dance Society organized by Cecil Sharp, per-
forming at the 7th Regiment in New York on
April 18, 1931, danced the Virginia Reels as one
of the English Folk Dances. 2" Miss Peggy
Champlin diplomatically selected the dance, “A
Successful Campaign, to open the ball when she
danced in Newport with Gen. Washington, to the
piping of De Rochambeau and his fellow officers.”

The First Theatres
Williamsburg, Virginia, had the first playhouse

Virginia is said to have- hadjthe first
playhouse to be opened in the Colonies.

in the colonies in 1716. The New Theatre was
the first playhouse in New York. It was
opened in I732. Its principal play was “The
Recruiting Ofiicer.” In I749 at Philadelphia a
play, “The Orphan,” by Otways caused such a
sensation that a law was passed forbidding
plays in this colony. Nevertheless this opposi-
tion was eliminated and the theatre soon be-
came a profitable enterprise in Philadelphia. 23

Probably the first light opera in the colonies
was “The Beggar’s Opera” by John Gay. An-
napolis had the largest acting company in the
colonies. They were the Hallam Henry’s Dra-
matic Company which contained well trained
actors. They played in Maryland every seas0n
for more than twenty years in such plays as
“The Busy Body,” “The Lying Valet,” “Rich-
ard III, and “The Beggar’s Opera.” 29

In the Southern Colonies

In the southern colonies
the class distinction, the es-
tablishment of Negro slavery, and the plantation
life were the outstanding factors which made
southern colonial life different than the other
colonies. One finds that a Hugh Jones writing in
I724 makes the following comment about the
social life of the time: “The common planters,
leading easy lives, do not much admire labor, or
any manly exercise, except horse-racing, nor di-
version, except cock-fighting in which some
greatly delight.” 3"

The sport which was popular in the middle
colonies, but more popular in the southern col-
onies, was horse-racing. It was enjoyed by all
classes. The upper class took great pride in breed-
ing horses and racing them, while the lower class
attended the horse-races as betters or onlookers.$1

“Since the Virginians were excellent horsemen,
it was natural that they should enjoy hunting.” 32
Fox-hunting was the most popular type of hunt-
ing. George Washington was fond of fox-hunt—
ing and indulged in this sport until he was sixty-
three years old when he was thrown from a horse
and slightly injured.

Gambling was more prevalent in Virginia than

 

25. Earle, A. M.—Child Life in Colom'oI Doys, p. 111.
26. Burchenal, E.——Americon Country Domes, Vol. 1, p. 6.
27. The Program of the English Folk Dance Society.

23. Ibid., p. 317.

29. Hughes, Glenn—The Story of the Theotre. Chapter XVII,
p. 313, S. French, 1923.

30. Revolutionory Literature. Edited by Trent & Wells, p. 16.
31. Fiske, J'.—OId Virginia and Her Neighbours, Vol. II, p. 237.
32. man, p. 239.

 

RECREATIONS OF THE COLONIAL PERIOD 33

in the other colonies, and “Innkeepers who
permitted any game of cards, or dice, except
backgammon, were subject to a heavy fine.”33
The favorite game of cards was “Put.”

Backgammon which recently came into favor
again “is one most ancient and widespread dice
games, of which three schools survive; they are
the Russians, Turkish, and English.” It is some-
times called “tric-trac,” though this is properly a
distinct variety of the game and it was known as
“table” until the seventeenth century. 3‘ It was
popular in middle and southern colonies.

The popularity of nine pins or bowls spread
throughout the three colonies. “As early as 1636
William Ward, of Accomac County, is found
participating in a game of this kind which took
place at the house of John Dunn, and the diver-
sion proved so absorbing that he is reported to
have spent the whole day engaged in it.” 35 In
Sewall’s Diary he mentions the following: “Went
to a Garden at Mile End and drunk Currant and
Raspberry Wine, then to the Dog and Partridge’s
and played Nine Pins.” 3“

Duelling and .fencing were sports which did
not have a large following. “Before the Revolu-
tion there had been a few duels fought with
sword, notably one between Thomas Middleton
and Colonel Grant. After the Revolution pistols
were invariably used.” 3" Duels increased untii
1800 and then the interest in them waned.

Fisher in his book, It! en, Women and Manners,
has an interesting description of the Greased Pole.
In the town of Norfolk fairs were constantly held
in the market place, which are described as most
uproarious, the people abandoning themselves to
laughter, shouting, and fun beyond anything
known in subsequent puritanic times. A giltlaced
hat was placed on top of a pole, well greased and
soaped, and as man after man climbed it only to
slip down with a rush before he reached the prize,
the crowd screamed with delight until some en-
during one succeeded. 33

The Virginia Gasettc, a newspaper of the Co-
lonial time, in its October issue of 1737 lists the
various sports for the month. The following are
excerpts from that paper:

“It is proposed that 20 horses or mares do run
around three miles course for a prize of five
pounds.” “That a hat of the value 20s be cod-
gelled for”; “A violin be played by 20 fiddlers, no
person to have liberty of playing unless he brings
fiddle with him”; “That 12 boys of 12 years of
age do run 112 yards for a hat of the cost 12

shillings”; “That a pair of silver buckles be
wrestled for by a number of brisk young men.” 3”

Other events which were not listed in the
Gazette were: “the running of races of young
men with young women; pigs were turned loose
and the whole crowd chased them among each
other’s legs to catch them by their greased tails.
Some were sewn up in sack and ran races, tumbl—
ing and rolling over each other. Others raced
through sugar hogshead placed end to end with
ends out, and as the great barrels got rolling to
and fro the affair ends, it is said, in nothing but
noise and confusion. Then a man would appear
with a pot of hot mush, and eaters with distorted
faces and tearful eyes gobbled at it to see which

was the fastest.” 4°

Fishing was one of the popular sports of the
South.

Outdoor Sports P0pular

In summing up the amusements and recreations
one notices that most of the activities were of the
outdoor type and that the Southerners had a
larger variety of activities than the other colonists.
This might be considered the results of their geo-
graphical location and environmental conditions.

“There are no more striking survivals of an—
tiquity than the games and pastimes of children.
Many of these games were original religious ob-
servances; but there are scores that in their pre-
sent purpose of simple amusement date from
medieval days.” ‘1 Activities of children seem to
have seasonal cycles. The child of today has su-
pervised activity, which is carefully graded, and
yet this writer wonders if we have taken into
careful consideration these seasonal cycles.

There were a large number of Tag games which
the children enjoyed, such as Wood Tag, Stone
Tag, and Tell Tag. Pickadill was a winter sport
played in the snow. In the Young Folks Cyclo-
paedia, Pickadill is mentioned as another name
for Fox and Geese. Stone Poison was another
tag game. Honey Pots———“a game for very small
children, any number of whom may represent
honey pots, while older persons take the part of
honey merchant and customers. The honey pots
sit on the floor or grass in a row with hands

 

33. Earle, A. M.-—Ch:')‘d Life in Colonial Days, p. 351. _

34. The New International Encyclopaedl'a. Second Edition,
Vol. 2, p. 503.

35. Accomac County Records, Vol. 1632-40, p. 59.

36. Sewall, S.—The Diary of Samuel Serra”, Vo. I, p. 255.

37. Fisher, G. S.——-Men, Women and .Manners, Vol. 2, p. 336.

38. Ibid., Vol. I, p. 73. -

39. Ibid., p. 74.

40. Ibid., p. 73.

41. Earle, A. M.-Child Life in Colonial Days, 1). 342.

34 RECREATIONS OF THE COLONIAL PERIOD

clasped under their bent knees. After a dialogue
between the merchant and a customer, and any
words they please, the latter selects a honey pot,
and they proceed to weigh it. This is done by
taking the child by the arms and swinging him
backward and forward till he is compelled to un-
claSp his hands and allow his feet to touch the
ground or floor. The pot is supposed to weigh
as many pounds as it has swings. Another cus—
tomer may now appear, or the same one may
make some objection and desire to try another
pot.” ‘2

Hop Scotch or Scotch Hoppers or Pots was
another popular game of the Colonial children.
Cats Cradle is another old game which children
enjoyed.

Other outdoor games and activities which the
children indulged in are: Leap frog; marbles;
fives, knock out and span; tip cat; bird nesting;
cricket; fishing; coasting; hunting; trapping; hop,
skip, and jump; stool ball; trap ball, and other
games with a ball. The game of trap ball is played
by “any number of persons with a trap, bat, and
ball. The trap is made of wood, of the size and
shape of a low shoe, having in it a spoon—shaped
lever. The ball is like the small base ball, and the
bat like a short cricket bat, to be used with one
hand. The players divide into two parties, one
of which takes'position in the field, while those
on the other, one by one, take turns at the bat.
The batter places the ball in the trap, and by
striking the free end of the lever with his bat
sends the ball into the air. He then tries to hit
it as far as he can. If he miss his stroke, or
strike the ball beyond the side boundaries, or if a
fielder catches the ball before it touches the
ground, he is out, and the next player takes the
bat. Otherwise, the fielder who stops the ball
bowls it at the trap, and if he hits it, or the ball
stops within a bat’s length of it, the striker is out.
If not, the striker estimates the distance of the
ball from the trap in bat-lengths, and calls it out.
If it be within the actual distance, he scores to-
ward game the number of bat-lengths called; but
if it be less than the real distance, he is out. When
a player is out, he takes no further part in the
game till all his side are out, when the sides
change places. Those who do not go out continue
to strike and score, in order, till all are out. When
each side has finished its turn at the bat, the game
is at an end, and the side with largest score
wins.” ‘3 It is possible this game may be one of
those upon which baseball is founded.

Indoor Games

Among the indoor games we have blindman’s
buff, Kings and I, thread the needle, chuck-
farthing, and shuttle cock. The last three games
are uncommon and the writer believes that an
explanation of them will be of interest. Thread
the needle is a “game played by any number of
persons, who join hands to form a line. The
player at one end, whom we will call A, and the
one at the other end, whom we will call B, begin

the game by a dialogue in verse as follows:

A. “How many miles to Babylon ?”
B. “Three score miles and ten.”
A. “Can I get there -by candle-light?"
B. “Oh yes, and back again.”
A. “Then open the gates as high as the sky,
And let King George and his train pass by.”

B and the player next to him then lift their
joined hands as high as possible, and A, with
others behind him, pass under. This is then re-
peated, B becoming the inquirer and threading
the needle in his turn. 4‘

Shuttlecock is a game similar to tennis. A
racket is used but instead of a ball a shuttlecock
is used. A shuttlecock is made of cork filled with
lead, and one of the corks is covered with feath-
ers. The object of the game is simply to prevent
the Shuttlecock from falling to the ground by
striking it from one player to the other with a
racket. The racket is sometimes called a Battle-

dore. ‘5
The game of Chuck Farthing is described in

rhyme.

“As you value your Pence
At the Hole take your aim.

Chuck all safely in
And you’ll win the Game.”48

Another game which is described in rhyme is

the one of Pitch and Hussell.

“Poise your hand fairly,
Pitch plum'b you slat.
Then shake for all Heads,
Turn down the Hat.”

The song plays of the Colonial children are in
many cases similar to the song plays of the pre—
sent day children. Here is a partial list of them:
“Here comes three Lords out of Spain”; “On
the green carpet here we stand”; “I’ve come to
see Miss Ginia Jones”; “Little Sally Waters, sit-
ting in the sun”; “Green gravel, green gravel, the
grass is so green”; “Old Uncle John is very sick,
what shall we send him ?”; “Oats, peas, beans,

 

42. The Young Folks Cyclopaedt'a of Game: and Sports, p. 412.
43. Ibid., pp. 737-738.

44. Ibid., pp. 723-724.

45. Ibid., p. 74. _

46. Earle, A. M.—ChiId Lift in Colonial Days, p. 347.

(Continued on page 47)

The Game Plan

Children as town planners-an

experiment in practical civics

and a game well worth playing

N DECEMBER 17, 1932, in the High School
building at Dedham, Massachusetts, there
was held an exhibit which was “different.”

It was not the usual exhibit of handcraft or hob—
bies as the term is ordinarily interpreted, but a
display of the results of an experiment which had
as its purpose the giving of school boys and girls
the opportunity to study their home town and
plan for its future.

The experiment was carried on under the
auspices of the Massachusetts George Washing-
ton Bicentennial Commission, of which Mrs.
Charles Sumner Bird is chairman and Captain
Percy R. Creed, secretary. The plan was most in-
tensively developed in Norfolk County, a part
of the charmed circle reaching around Boston
from Plymouth to Marblehead—an area offering
an unusual opportunity to build for the future in
a section of undeveloped land near a large center
of population.

The children taking part in the project were
asked to do three things:

I. To describe their town as they see it today.

2. To describe the town of their imagination
for the year 2032.

3. To draw plans of their ideal town with its
parks, homes, playgrounds, airports and streets
for future traffic. “Play this game of imagina-
tion which Washington played so well,” the Com-
mission urged, “and see how well one can rebuild
the home town.”

In bringing the plan to a successful outcome,
many school superintendents, Rotary clubs, Ki-
wanis clubs and the town planning boards co-
operated. The schools used the Game Plan Charts
as lesson material, and many dynamic lessons in

"The game plan is for the better planning
of our towns through the eyes and spirit-
of the boys ond girls. It will awaken in them
0 more patriotic and intelligent interest in
their home towns. It will help them to ap-
preciate the beauties, potential as well as
developed, and to plan for their preserva-
tion. The game plan was inspired by the
thought of Washington and his standard of
public duty and achievement, and of his re-
morkable foresight in planning for the fut-
ure of our country."

civics were taught. Service clubs offered awards
for the best plan in each town and planning boards
and town officials helped the children in finding
their material.

The Rules
In judging the materials presented at the first
Game Plan Exhibit at Dedham the judges based
their decision on the following:

I. The description of the town as it is today.
a. Clearness and completeness of description.‘

2. The description of the town as it is to be in
2032.

a. Originality of ideas.
I). Merit of the plan.

3. The map of the town as it is to be in 2032.
(The map must correspond with the description
in (2) and both will be judged together.)

Contestants were classified as juniors, includ-
ing all grades through the ninth, and seniors above
the ninth grade and under nineteen years of age.
Awards—first, second and third—were given
within the classes of the best Game Plan, for the
best poem on the Game Plan, and in addition, for
collective exhibits by towns in Norfolk County
and for the best exhibit outside the county. A
certification of merit was given each boy and girl
sending in a plan. The winner of the state com-
petition received a personal letter of congratula-
tion from the President of the United States and
a bust of George Washington for the town where
the winning Game Plan was made. This town
also received a tree planted by the Governor of
Massachusetts.

(Continued on page 4?)
35

Play

Courtesy The American City

WITH the comple-
tion of a combined
public park and school
playground adjoining
the Samuel Coleridge Taylor School for Co]—
ored Children in Baltimore ,according to the
American City for February, 1933, the Public
Improvement Commission of Baltimore has ac-
complished what it believes to be one of its most
constructive pieces of work. Ten years ago the
area now occupied by the park, the playground,
the school and its annex, consisted of squalid,
dilapidated buildings which had been a blot on
the city health map for many years. It was known
as the “lung” block because of its high tubercu-
losis rate. In 1923 the Commission decided to get
this publicproperty for the use of a school site.
Buildings were razed and the school building was
erected. Lack of funds made any further im—
provements impossible at that time. Later on, an
addition was built. Finally, through the cooper-
ation of the Board of Estimates, the Park Board
and the Public Improvement Commission, about
two and a half acres of land were acquired for a
playground. The total cost of the development
was over $800,000.

 

Lung Block Now a
Playground

 

THE Playground and
Community Service
Commission of New
‘ Orleans, Louisiana,
has received an appropriation for 1933 of $29,300.
This represents a cut over 1932 of only ten per
cent. With the exception of the 1932 appropria-
tion, it is the largest amount the department has
ever received from the city. This year develop-
ment will be started on Stallings Memorial Field
which will cost about $15,000, and a new play-

36

Developments in
New Orleans

 

A civic achievement—the conversion of a lung

block into a public park and school playground.
ground will be opened in the eighth ward. Funds
for this development, about $5,000, will be raised
in the ward. The first playground in New Orleans
was opened in 1908. Since 1912 the playgrounds
have grown from three to iifteen, with a splendid
recreation center, the Behrman Memorial and live
swimming pools, four for white and one for CO]-
ored. The Commission believes that the city
should have iifty playgrounds and ten swimming
pools.

CHARLTON Flats,

Pasadena’s new 1,100
acre mountain play—
ground in the Angeles

National Forest, is being developed through the
labor of itinerant unemployed men who for more
than a year have been housed in one of the city’s
camps. The site is covered with magniiicent
pines, oaks and sycamores, some of the pines be-
ing among the largest in the Angeles Forest. A
water system has been installed, an electric power
plant put in operation, a mess hall, recreation hall
and administration building constructed, and
courts laid out for volley ball, horseshoe pitching
and basketball. Much grading and surfacing has
been accomplished and miles of trails built. When
completed the camp will serve thousands of Pasa-
dena’s citizens for picnicking, camping, horse-
back riding and winter sports.

Pasadena’s Mountain
Playground

DURING the sum-
mer of 1932, Donald
Gordon, Superintend-
ent of Parks in Okla-
homa City, Oklahoma, called a meeting of boys"
and girls’ organizations and asked for their help
in carrying on the recreation program of the city.

Camp Fire Girls As
Recreation Volunteers

 

WORLD AT PLAY 37

Funds were low and the problem which faced the
department was to secure leaders. After a dis-
cussion of ways and means, the Camp Fire Girls
and Boy Scouts agreed to provide leadership in
three parks. From June 3rd until August 20th
was assigned to the local Camp Fire Girls group.
The older girls were used for volunteer service
in supervising games, telling stories, and direct-
ing simple play. Thirty girls gave volunteer serv-
ice, contributing 460 hours of leadership. In
some of the parks they had little equipment to
work with except a baseball and bat, croquet sets
and an occasional volley ball. The total attend—
ance during the summer period for the three
parks was 15,252.

Rhode Island’s New Association—Rhode
Island has a new organization in the Rhode Isl-
and Association of the Old Colony, a non-proht
sharing corporation chartered in Rhode Island to
combine accident prevention work and regional
planning. William K. Vanderbilt was elected
president of the group. The association will seek
to prevent accidents, stimulate employment and
improve public welfare. It will endeavor to re-
strict objectionable billboards, to beautify high-
ways, enlarge well traveled two lane roads into
four lane hard surfaced roads, construct pedes-
trian paths alongside of streets and country roads,
and insure the proper lighting of all highways,
parks and playgrounds. The increase of park
areas and playgrounds, fire prevention, improve-
ment of ocean frontage, and preservation of his-
toric sites will also be among the objectives of
the organization.

An Indoor Sports Carnival—A mammoth in—
door sports carnival is to be conducted for the
nrst time in the history of county sponsored
sports in the huge amphitheatre of the West-
chester County Center. The opening of the two
weeks exhibitions of county skills and prowess
in the field of the several sports has been tenta-
tively set for March 16th, the events coming to a
climax with boxing and wrestling bouts on April
Ist. This new 'plan, which makes White Plains
the arena for the final combats in basketball,
track, volley ball, Badminton, archery, ping-pong,
boxing and wrestling, will also serve to focus the
attention of the county at large on the extent and
diversity of athletic activities sponsored by the
Westchester County Recreation Commission.

 

Everwear

Merry-Wave
Stride

. . . Everwear playground equipment stands up
under the wear and tear of care-free youthI and
the constant abuse of the elements.

You are entrusted with the safety of children
. it is your duty to see that the equipment

you install is safe . . . that it will give this
safety YEAR AFTER YEAR.

«-

Before you buy another piece of equipment in-
vestigate Everwear and its ability to give year
after year of safe performance.

Ever. Wear

PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

     
  

 
    
   
   
 
    
   
    
        
 
    
   

Safe, beneficial action is provided by the
255 different types, sizes, and units of
recreation apparatus found in the splendid
EverWear line.

   
  

An outfit for every play purpose. The
design and details of construction insure
safety and durability. Investigate them.

Have you read the information found on
the inside front and back cover pages of
the EverWear catalog No. 23? If you
do not have this splendid book, write for
your copy.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.
Springfield, Ohio

 

38 WORLD AT PLAY

A 1933 Field Hockey and Sports Camp—
The 1933 Mills College, California, Field Hockey
and Sports Camp will be held from June 24th to
July 23rd on the Mills College campus, Oakland,
California. Further information may be secured
from Miss Rosalind Cassidy, Mills College,

California.

The Allegany School of Natural History—
July 5 to August 24, 1933 will mark the sixth
session of “The School in the Forest” held in
Allegany State Park, New York. The school is
conducted by the Buffalo Society of Natural
Sciences in cooperation with the New York State
Museum and affiliated with the University of
Buffalo. Registrations may be made through any
of these institutions.

Fairy-Tale Post Cards—The Austrian Junior
Red Cross, whose post cards made by pupils of
the famous juvenile art class conducted by Pro-
fessor Cizek in Vienna, as well as those done by
Norbertine Bresslern—Roth, have become so wide-
ly known, has recently published a new set of
“fairy-tale” cards done in colors after original
designs of the well known Australian fairy-tale
illustrator, Hans Lang. A set of ten cards may be
secured for $.27, including postage. Payments
may be made by check. Orders should be ad-.
dressed to the Austrian Junior Red Cross, Marx-
ergasse 2, Vienna III, Austria.

Leisure Time and Regional Planning—At
the Conference on Regional Planning, Govern-
ment and Administration in Metropolitan Areas,
held at New York University, October 18th and
19th, Clarence Stein, formerly Chairman, New
York State Commission on Housing and Regional
Planning, stated that even the modern apartment
house in an expensive district is Out of date pri-
marily because of our steadily increasing leisure.
This assumption is based on his belief that in-
creasing leisure creates new housing requirements,
particularly open space requirements. It was
further pointed out by Professor Charles W.
Tooke of New York University, that the steady
increase in the amount of leisure is making
it necessary in planning for water uses to give
more consideration to the recreational needs of
water and waterfronts. He specifically mentioned
a need of water areas for bathing and for such
recreation as fishing. In planning for the control
of water, for example, he mentioned the fact that
it must be kept sufficiently pure so that it will be

safe to bathe in and so that fish can live in it. He
felt it was significant that sanitary engineers in
their work in connection with sewerage disposal
problems in the New York harbor region con-
sider water areas in this section as of two kinds
-—recreational waters and non-recreational waters
—and base theiir sewerage disposal planning on
such a distinction.

Pasadena’s Rose Tournament— Pasadena’s
forty-fourth annual Tournament of Roses had as
its theme Fairyland—fairty-tales in flowers. It is
estimated that almost a million people watched
some part or all of the tournament parade which

.this year seemed more elaborate and beautiful

than ever, according to the Pasadena Star-News
and Post which issued a special Tournament of
Roses number.

The Oklahoma City Zoo—The annual report
of the Board of Park Commissioners of Okla-
homa City, Oklahoma, is outstanding in its em-
phasis on recreation facilities and activities. One
interesting item has to do with the activities pro-
vided through the 200.

The director of the 200 has added interest by
arranging for the celebration of the birthdays of
the various animals. A bridle path tended by the
zoo keepers provides small children with rides on
goats and donkeys in carts. The schools in many
surrounding towns brought classes to the city for
a day’s outing. The director arranged an itinerary
on this occasion which took the children through
various factories and points of interest in the
city, including the Zoo. School children of Okla-
homa City have spent time at the zoo under the
guidance of the director who told them the life
history of many of the animals as they visited the
various displays.

An “Uncle Leo Club” has been organized which
meets every Saturday morning at one of the local
theatres. At this time the director gives radio
talks on animals for the benefit of the children.
This has proved very interesting, especially to
children’s institutions throughout the state.

An Assembly Hall for Belle Isle—The will
of the late William H. Flynn of Detroit, Michi-
gan, provides for an assembly hall at Belle Isle
to be used by those who attend open air symphony
concerts and theatricals. The building, which will.
be of marble with Italian garden landscaping, will:
be known as the “Flynn Memorial Building.”
“Beauty will be songht,” the will states, “but not.

 

WORLD AT PLAY

at the expense of utility. There shall be an in-
terior auditorium, branch library, canoe and small
boat shelter, day nursery, emergency hospital and
refectory. The public should maintain the

building.”

Timely Cooperation—The University School
of Cleveland, Ohio. a private school which has
a three-acre athletic field with tennis courts,
baseball diamonds and volley ball courts, re-
cently turned these facilities over to the Recre-
ation Department for twelve weeks without
any charge whatever for their use. The athletic
field is located in a district where play space
is much needed, and the Department has pro-
vided a caretaker and two playground direc-
tors. To stimulate membership in the city’s
golf course four free golf lessons are offered
to every new member.

Yakima to Have a Swimming Pool—Several
years ago the Lions Club of Yakima, Washing-
ton, purchased and improved a city block making
it into one of the most attractive parks in the city.
However, there was not enough money left over
for a swimming pool. The club has been saving
for this improvement and has $1,800 on hand. A
plan has been worked out with the City Commis-
sion to start the construction of a $9,000 pool
which will cover an area of more than a city
residence lot. The work of excavating will be
done by local unemployed labor. It is estimated
that this will cost about $4,500, leaving $4,500
for materials. The city has offered to match the
club dollar for dollar on this, and the club is
going ahead with the project.

An Interesting Piece of Engineering—On
the Webster Street Playground in Gloucester,
Massachusetts, there is an interesting engineering
feature which is making possible the flooding of
the ground for skating. A living stream flows
through a drain under the center of the play-
ground. At the lower end, where a dam exists, a
large valve has been installed which can be closed
at will causing the entire play field to be flooded
for skating. An escape drain has been installed
which causes the water to run off when it has
reached a certain level. When the skating season
is over, the large valve is opened letting out all
the water. The field itself is surrounded by banks
making a natural bowl-like stadium.

39

 

 

 

ll"

  

Bright

'f

Ctean

 

 

SUNSHINE

FRESH AIR

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

ROTECfING children at play is the aim

of the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the don-
gers and dirt in dust! It's so easy and
it costs next to nothing.

An application atSolvay Flake Calcium
Chloride on gravel or earth surfaces
effectively ends the dust nuisance. And
Solvoy Calcium Chloride kills germs.
The photomicrographs pictured here
show you the results. 347cultures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the some dust
treated with Solvoy Calcium Chloride.

Before treatment After treatment

Germs
in Dust

   

Make this a dustless outdoor season
on your playgrounds. Send today tor
tull intormation and booklet No. "59.

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

3.. ,3. Alkalies and Chemical Products Monufoc.
K: tured by The Solvoy Process Company
New York

 

CHLORIDE

%

61 Broadway

 

TRADE MARK REG U S. PAT OFF

ALCIUM

 

run-77%-so%

0 LVAY

 

 

4O WORLD AT PLAY

A Sports Center Dedicated—Eleven years of
effort were climaxed recently in the dedication at
Paterson, New Jersey, of the Hinchcliffe Sta-
dium, named in honor of Mayor John Hinchcliffe
and of his uncle who was mayor from 1897 to
I903. The new structure cost slightly over
$200,000.

A New Field House—At a cost of $225 for
material, through the use of relief labor, Melrose,
Massachusetts, now has a new field house which
is serving as a park ofhce and recreation center.
The building will house girls’ club activities. skat-
ing and warming rooms, storage space for tennis
and hockey equipment, and a roomy park ofhce.

From Court to Playground—The boys of
Phoenixville, Pa. who are taken to court because

of juvenile delinquency are paroled to the Super-
tendent of Recreation in Phoenixville, who ar-

ranges for their participation in certain activities.

At the Child Study Conference—At the two-
day conference conducted October 17th and 18th
by the Child Study Association of America, a re-
port was made of the project carried on last year
by the parents of Lincoln School, New York

l

E Volley Ball

Series of articles on— .

 

———

 

 

~-—’a

Technique

By ROBERT E. LAVEAGA,

Director of Physical Education, Boston l
YMCA l

M. A. CLEVETT,
Association College. Chicago

l May 1932 : April 1933 3

COM PLETE SET. $ I .00

V

Journal of
Physical Education

347 MADISON AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

 

 

 

City. Feeling they wanted more opportunity to
plan and carry out their own projects, the parents
with the assistance of a leader whose one task
was to coordinate the work of the separate parent
groups, set to work to accomplish two objectives:
(1) To give parents the opportunity of meeting
and becoming better acquainted with the parents
and children with whom their own children went
to school, and (2) To have a different type of
meeting from that at which an expert lectured to
them. Parents’ recreation nights were organized
at which fathers and mothers had the opportunity
to swim, to take part in physical and creative ac-
tivities, and to do the things which their children
did during the day.

In setting up the organization, one mother from
each grade was asked to cooperate. It was found
that best results were secured when parents en-
tered freely into the discussion and studied and
presented problems impersonally. Frequently the
parents would realize the need of help from ex-
perts and would invite them to take part in the
meeting. The school learned much from this
treatment of expression for all, and the executive
committee is building plans on the suggestions
offered by the parents.

A New Art Exhibit—Routine of business at
the headquarters of Queensboro Hall, New York
City, was interrupted in December by the opening
of the first art exhibit held of work'done by city
employees. The exhibit comprised oil paintings,
water colors, drawings, life sketches, posters and
photographic studies, all the work of employees
who in their spare time turned to art. They have

formed what is known as the “Boro Hall Art
Club.”

Dad’s Clubs Help—Alton, Illinois, has three
Dads’ Clubs which are supporting playground
projects. One of them is fostering an arrange—
ment between Shurtleff College and the city
whereby a piece of property owned by the col-
lege in a section where a playground is badly
needed may be developed by unemployed
labor. At the Kiwanis Tower Playground the
Dads’ Club raised funds and with labor d0-

nated, built a beautiful fountain and wading
pool

A New Recreation Center for Trenton—The
site of the deaf institute in Trenton, New Jer-
sey, from which the institute has moved, will
be converted into a recreation area. This will
be a splendid addition to the city’s facilities.

“CHILDREN ARE LIKE THAT” 41

A State Tournament in Playground Ball—-
On September 5th the eighth annual play-
ground ball tournament of Minnesota was
completed at Stillwater. There were eighteen
teams in the tournament, fourteen in Class
“B,” four in Class “A.” “The play was keen
and competition fair. Every team entered
showed up on time for the meet; the umpiring
was excellent and the games went off on sched-
ule,” writes Ernest \V. Johnson, Superinten-
dent of Playgrounds in St. Paul, who was
present as a representative of the Municipal
Athletics Commission of Minnesota. The at-
tendance grew from 1,000 the first day, Sep-
tember 3rd, to about 5,000 on the final day,
September 5th.

Play Nights in Westchester County—The
\Vestchester County, New York, Recreation
Commission has resumed this fall its weekly
Play Nights in the County Center. Each Mon-
day night from 7 :00 to 10 :30 there will be vol-
ley ball, ping pong, Badminton, shufflle board
and similar games in the main auditorium of
the center, while in the little theater such ac-
tivities will be conducted as old-fashioned
square dancing, chess and checkers.

Durham’s Recreation Training Institute—
Just before the summer playground season
opened, the Recreation Commission of Dur-
ham, North Carolina, held a training institute.
The graduates of the institute were given a
certificate stating that each graduate had suc-
cessfully completed the course of training and
had demonstrated that he had a working
knowledge of the material presented. Each
night of the institute a different member of
the Recreation Commission of the city pre-
sided over the session.

"Children Are Like That"

(Continued from page 5)

Nor is this plea for self-determination in play
intended to deprecate the organization and super-
vision of play groups. Certainly the organized
group successfully meets many of the child’s valid
play needs and interests. But in our zeal to take
care of these obvious interests, in our eagerness
to capitalize each in the name of “education,” we
must be wary lest we submerge other claims less
apparent but no less real. And if we do not

 

Special Certificates and College Degrees
for Students and Teachers of

Physical Education and
Athletic Coaching

PENN STATE SUMMER SESSION

July 3 to August 11

Wide variety of graduate. and under-gradu-
ate courses. Prominent coaching staff.

Modern gymnasium. An ideal environ-
ment for health and study.

Special Bulletin on Request
Address Director of Summer Session

The Pennsylvania State College
State College, Pa.

 

always know how to interpret or evaluate these,
we can at least accept them as having a valid place
in the child’s scheme of things. We can give them
houseroom.

In our organization of the child’s play we can
see to it that he has at least a modicum of that
vital play accessory known as “free time” to
“waste” if he so wishes, to play alone or with
companions of his own selecting, to choose his
play wherever and however he may find it.

A Broader Concept of Physical

Education
( Confirmed from page 8)

the gymnasium reproductions of the finest in
Greek art, hang on the walls pictures represent-
ing the human form at its best, pictures portray—
ing in bodily attitude, gesture and facial expres-
sion, the emotions of man, and pictures repre-
sentative of types of character and temperament.
These means, supplemented by the use of the
motion picture and instruction by the teacher,
acquaint the youth with the possibilities of the
human body as a means of expressing and inter-
preting mental life.

Introduce into the gymnasium large mirrors
that the youth may see for himself how he com-
pares with the ideal. Urge him to participate in
school dramatics that he may discover to what
extent he is able by voice, posture, gesture and
facial expression to express, intensify, and de-
velop his own ideational and affective states.

But to be successful in putting into practice
this broader conception of physical education, the
teacher himself must experience in thought, feel-
ing, and action that which he would have youth
experience through the process of physical edu-

42 ACTIVITIES FOR UNEMPLOYED YOUNG PEOPLE

cation. Only thus can the goal be attained—the
freeing of the human spirit to reveal itself to the
world through a beautiful, graceful, responsive

body.—From The Journal of Health and Physical
Education, September, 1932.

Activities for Unemployed and
Unoccupiecl Young People

(Con-tinned from page 15,)

be led to see what it has to offer. Possibly there
would be one person in the group who is dissat—
ished with the work he planned to go into prior
to the depression. He might in this way be led to
direct his interests to another. line of work more
suited to him.

The libraries might also offer, through residents
of the community who have had some library
training, story telling courses for girls. Contests
for reviews of recent books bought by the library
could be announced, the review of the successful
contestant being published in the paper. Exhibits
of collections of individuals, such as dolls, paint-
ings, rugs, are also possible. Posters should be
placed in public places- and loitering places an—
nouncing these offerings.

It is interesting to note that through publishers
it is possible to secure authors’ reports on their
own books.

Can These Young People Be Helped to
Earn Money?

In spite of the lack of regular work for large
numbers of people, we must continue to look for
means by which some money may be earned. It
has been suggested that sales may be sponsored
for the products of various craft‘ groups and that
dramatic and choral clu'bs may offer entertain-
ments for which admission is charged. In one
instance, several arts and crafts groups and in-
dividual artists have formed a guild with exhibits
and sales of products held monthly at the homes
of the interested sponsors.

The Junior Achievement Plan

Through the Junior Achievement, Inc., clubs
are incorporated as businesses in miniature with
complete craft and business programs. The clubs
may be formed by recreation directors, club lead-
ers, or individuals who have contact with young
people. \Vorking capital is raised by means of
miniature shares of stock having a par value of
from 10 to 50 cents.

One Junior Achievement Company is now in
formation in \Vestchester County and three other
communities are planning to organize such groups.

How to Produce a Play

(Continued from page 16)

3. All actors in the scenes or acts being re-
hearsed must‘ be present. If an actor is absent
he is injuring not only his own performance but
that of every other actor in the scene.

4. There must be absolute quiet among actors
not on the stage during the rehearsal of a scene,
and close attention to entrance cues.

5. Difficult scenes or bits of business must be
repeated over and over again until the result is
satisfactory, although a special rehearsal may be
called for them so as not to waste the time of the
rest of the cast. If the actor shows signs of re—
senting the repetition of scenes, tell him that he is
being complimented by being dealt with as a
professional.

The second principle is often neglected by lazy
or too egotistical directors. It is this—The
director does not act, he n-zakes the actor act. In
other words, the director does not get up on the
stage and show the actor how to act. He tells the
actor what he wants him to do, what effect he
wants him to obtain; he shows him all the possi-
bilities in the part, intellectual, emotional and
physical, but he does not show him how to act.
If he does, the actor does not act at all. He imi-
tates. It doesn’t take any brains to imitate. A
parrot is excellent at it. Acting is creation, not
imitation.

It is often easier to get imitation out of an
actor than true acting, and lazy directors are apt
to make animated parrots out of their actors. The
too egotistical director does not have faith enough
in his actors. He thinks that he is the only one
who can do the part, so makes shadows of his
actors who follow him around and “do as he
does.”

Occasionally it will be necessary for the
director, in order to make himself thoroughly
understood, to get up on the stage and go through
a speech or a bit of business to the best of his
ability, but when he has finished he turns to the
actor and says, “Now don’t copy me but I want
you to get that same effect in your own way.”
Most of the directing, however, should be done
from the house, not from the stage.

 

 

TODAY’S NATURE EDUCATION AND TOMORROW’S LEISURE 43

If the director observes the three following
principles he will have no trouble in securing
plenty of actors, and more important, in keeping
them.

I. Never nag or scold, but inspire and enthuse.

2. Start and stop rehearsals on time, and at the
conclusion of each rehearsal play for a few mo—
ments. Play games, dance, stand around a piano
and sing, serve coffee and doughnuts, talk (all
actors love to talk), have some bit of social recre-
ation and relaxation at the conclusion of each
rehearsal.

3. Make every production a good production.
“Flops” not only discourage the actors in the pro-
duction, but keep every one in the audience away
from the next “try-out.” No one wants to be
associated with a failure.

And above all, poise, patience, and perse—

verance !

NOTE: Subjects to be discussed in future issues of
RECREATION include Selecting the Play; Casting the
Play; Organizing the Production: Rehearsing for Posi-
tion; Line, Business and Voice Rehearsals; Rehearsing
for Sincerity; Theatre Make-Up; Theatre Costume.
Stage Lighting; Stage Setting; The Dress Rehearsal
and the Performance.

Today’s Nature Education and

Tomorrow’s Leisure

(Continued from page 19)
the sun, the air and mother earth. Science can do
much to unify the home. Every school should
introduce its youth to leisure time science whether
it be nature as a hobby, a sport, a game, reading,
travel, song, painting, or experiment. Hobbies
are stimulated by interest and are more far reach-
ing than any assignment. The outpost of leisure
time science should be better health, better society
and better knowledge. We need to know more

about the science of leisure and also about the
leisure of science.

Leisure Science Essential

The world is demanding the fulness of science
and not mere technocracy. All intellectual science
and no leisure science make Jack an incomplete
boy. When Jack was memorizing laws of invisi—
ble radiation, wave motion, resonance, transmis-
sion of heat, vaporization, calorimetry, induced
currents, polarization, or learning that force (in
absolute units) equals mass X acceleration, he
might well have been taught that a wee bit of his
energy could also be used to stalk birds, to get a
“kick” out of Fishing, or with equal profit he

  
 

 

       

 

   
   
   
    
 

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

DIAMOND

Pitching Horseshoes of special appeal to profes-
sionals. Excellent for ,amateurs. Just what’s
needed on a playground. Will stand up under
severest treatment. Diamond Officials made
straight or curved toe calk. hard or soft (dead
falling). J u n i o r

model for ladies and
children.

 

    
    
 
 

ACCESSORIES

    
    
  

 
 
  
 

Score pads, instruction
booklets. rules. percent-
age charts. carrying cases.
steel stakes and stake holders.
official courts ready to set up
indoors or out. Built to con-
form to official requirements.

    
   
     
   
 
 

CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46|0 Grand Avenue Duluth. Minn.

  
  
 

could have started a life interest in collecting
rocks. Instead of labeling diagrams, classifying
plants, outlining leaves, naming bones and chant—
ing principles, he'might have just as profitably
hiked to a mountain top. Are we not still teach-
ing tasks which do not awaken the science motives
that are close to contemporary life? Can we not
Find place in our course to teach leisure time
science? Has not the center of gravity in science
teaching got to shift from overemphasis of mem-
orizing and reciting to experiencing and enjoying?

No tribal man could afford to be one-sided. Hc
had to be alert to a host of signs in his environ-
ment. He had to be sensitive to what other people
were doing. He had to know the plants and ani—
mals for medicine, shelter and food. That is not
so today. A man can be an intellectual giant in
science and be socially unresponsive. He can be
a moron in science and yet survive. He can be an
outdoor he—man and also a braggadocio in the
matter of getting along without modern science.
One scientist must be an expert on the growth

44 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles )
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

New Jersey Municipalities, January, 1933.
The Economy of Planned Recreation, by Charles H.
Demarest.

Parks and Recreation, by F. S. Mathewson.
Scholastic Coach, January, 1933.

Playing in the Water, by Floyd Eastwood.
Minnesota Municipalities, January, 1933.
Safe Winter Coasting Hills, by A. B. Horwitz.
The Grade Teacher, February, 1933.
What Can We Play in the Snow? by Berenice
Muella Ball.
The Journal of the National Education Association,
January, 1933.
The Junior College: A Community Center, by J. B.
Grifling.
The Child and Community Influences.
The American City, January, 1933.
How Red Wing Was Given 232 Acres of Parks.
Hyyeia, February, 1933.
Athletics for the Atypical, by R. K. Atkinson.

Training for Athletics and Health, by Alfred E.
Parker.

The Architectural Record, January, 1933.

Need for Recreational Buildings Foreseen by Ameri-
can Institute of Architects.

Marine Park Proposed for Brooklyn, by Charles
Downing Lay.

, Parks and Recreation, January, 1933.

Economies in Park Work Without Impairing Serv-
ice, by Ernest K. Thomas.

Park Land Acquisitions in Connection with Real
Estate Subdivisions, Iby S. Herbert Hare.

Park Service—Is It a Governmental or Proprietary
Function of Municipal Government? by Arthur
Williams.

Outdoor Dining in Westchester County, by Stanley
W. Abbott.

Successful Airport Operation Under Park Board
Supervision, by C. W. Short, Jr.

Unemployment Relief Work on Park Projects in
Portland, Maine, by VVilIiam J. Dougherty.

Horseshoes and Handball.

Success of Municipal Golf in New Haven, by Har-
old V. Doheny.

Journal of Physical Education, February, 1933.

Y. M.'C. A. Program of Physical Education for

Men Determined by Study of Expressed Prefer-

ence of Both Members and Non-Members, by
Roland Rooks.

PAMPH LETS

Nature Clubs for Teacher Training

By William G. Vinal. Reprinted from School Science
and Mathcmatics, November, 1932.
Annual Report of the Commonwealth Fund, 1932.
41 East 57th Street, New York City.
Annual Report of the Recreation Commission, Plainfield.

N. J.. 1932.

Third Annual Report of the Department of Public Rec-
reation, Millburn, N. J., 1932.

Annual Report of City Recreation Department, Austin,
Texas, 1932.

Annual Report of the Board of Park Commissioners, Ok-
lahoma City, Okla., 1932.

and repair of muscle tissue; the hygienist realizes
the necessity of exercise for muscle tone. And
yet these same muscles may be just as important
for mental exhilaration, the best social function-
ing, and for complete sympathies and emotions.
When these muscles are not used they atrophy
and the individual is that much short of being a
complete man. The scientist who is living but a
fraction of his life is not the scientist who can
bring us out of the present chaos; he must be a
scientist of full stature.

Boys' Week

(Continued from page 20)

as vocational guidance counsellors, discussing
with the boys problems of choosing future
careers.

Boys Day in Schools. Addresses before
the students, receptions at which parents may
meet their boys’ teachers and similar activities
will mark the observance of Boys’ Day in Schools
on Tuesday, May 2nd.

Boys’ Day in Entertainment and Athletics.
On \Vednesday, May 3rd, the boys will enjoy
interschool held meets, evening programs of
games and athletic events in which fathers are
urged to take part, marble tournaments and talent
exhibitions. It is suggested that luncheons be
planned at which athletes of note will address the
boys. On this day boys may be given an oppor-
tunity to speak or sing on local radio programs.

Boys’ Health Day. On Thursday, May
4th, the program will provide for talks in the
schools by physicians and dentists, the showing
of films on the care of the teeth and other health
subjects, free clinic examinations, the initiation
of a Junior Red Cross organization and similar
activities.

Boys’ Evening at Home. Family recrea-
tion and family relationships will be stressed on
Thursday evening when fathers are urged to
devote the evening to their boys, telling them of
their own boyhood and experiences. It is suggested
that on this evening parents take the opportunity
to center attention on problems which their boys
are facing.

Boys’ Day in Citizenship. On May 5th a
caucus or primary may be arranged in which can—
didates from the schools are named for the various
elective ofhces of the community to be followed
by an election. In some cities the ofiicers elected
serve for a day or part of a day in the ofiices to

’

THE GIRL IN THE SETTLEMENT PROGRAM 45

which they have been elected. Speakers may be
secured to address the schools on subjects of in-
terest to the future citizens of the community.

Boys’ Day Out-of—Doors. The hnal day of
the week may be given over to a series of hikes
to be taken by different groups of boys over
various routes but culminating at a central point
where a treasure hunt, swimming party or similar
activity may be enjoyed by the entire group. A
city-wide tournament of open air sports may be
arranged and such events as boat excursions,
mountain climbing exhibitions, nature study hikes
and paper chasers.

The Girl in The Settlement Program
(Continued from page 21)

Backgrounds and Traditions

Girls have many traits alike the world over,
but due to varied racial and community back-
grounds there is found a difference in individuals,
both in ability and interests. Most families who
live in the overcrowded tenements on the East
Side of New York, still possess habits which
portray a love for and adherence to old world
customs in religious and traditional subjects.
Many fine points of character and principles are
credited to such ideals; esthetic and artistic ten-
dencies must not be treated lightly. Homes here
are now overshadowed by unemployment; it is a
joy to find such rare treasures of the arts as the
old pictures, embroideries, tapestries and wood
carvings treasured in these almost impossible
homes. The girls in the younger generation are
taught to appreciate the collections which many
times warrant museum display and which inspire
many of them to come to the settlement to learn
the value not only of the old treasures, but of
modern art and culture. _

It is around these desires and trends that pro-
grams are built——to meet the wide and varied
interests of the girls today.

The Girls’ Work Program

The girls’ work program is organized with care
and purpose, each club or group being provided
with a skilled leader. The general business meet-
ing is the same in all of the clubs and in the main
objectives are similar, though at times plans are
checked by house standards. The projects and
discussions may vary depending on the demands
of the girls during the various ages. There is also
a distinct social side to the activities. Through

 

uWhat Can We Do
In Our Town?"

Do you live in a town or small city?

Are you faced with the problem of pro-
viding recreation facilties and activities at
little or no expense?

You will find many specific suggestions
on how to do it and information on what
a number of communities have done in the

bulletin entitled. “What Can We Do in

Our Town?”

PRICE $.25

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

3|5 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

 

the club as a medium girls are led into richer rec-
reational and social opportunities. As the c0m-
mittees work together making plans for programs,
entertainments and refreshments for the numer-
ous seasonal and special social affairs, ample edu-
cation in social etiquette is given to assure each
girl the arts of a gracious hostess in her home
building in later years.

A casual visitor who happened to walk into an
intermediate club room the other evening, paused
to listen as the girls considered outstanding facts
in a round table discussion on housing. Pictures
and plans, beginning with the old tenement houses
on the lower East Side, single and double dwell-
ings in the suburbs and modern apartments and
Park Avenue residences were examined—as well
as the income necessary to cover the cost of the
various homes discussed.

The visitor was interested to learn of the other
social-educational topics covered by various girl’s
groups such as labor and minimum wage, relief,
unemployment, technocracy, regulations of the
banking system, federal reserve banks, the Muscle
Shoals situation and different kinds of insurance.
Thus the girls are gaining from the settlement a

46 SQUARES D’ENFANTS

background and training rich with material, to
help in surmounting the obstacles and solve the
problems of present day thinking, and to bolster
up their faith in the future.

NOTE: This introductory article of Miss Mower will
be followed in future issues with material on volunteer
leadership, arts and crafts, and allied subjects.

, Squares d'Enfants
( Confirmed from page 22)

disinfected twice a month by the city of Paris
and is replaced monthly. Nurses watch to see
that the children are kept as clean as possible, and
children are taught to wash their hands before
eating. In brief, the rules which exist provide the
greatest security for the parents.

In the squares children play, sing, laugh, jump,
run and dance, sometimes taking the nurse into
the circle. In clear weather they play out-of-
doors even in winter. There is, however, on each
playground a well heated building where the chil-
dren play during inclement weather. Dramatics,
music—phonographs have been supplied—Japan-
ese billiards and sewing are among the indoor ac-
tivities. At Christmas the playground is ingen-
iously decorated and festivals are held. Through
the generosity of Mrs. Stern each square is pro-
vided with a supply of playthings varied but not
easily harmed by the children. These include
jumping ropes, see-saws, rocking horses and
wheelbarrows. '

The playgrounds are small but each is sur-
rounded by an iron grill fence. Large sand boxes
are a feature, and on one or more of the play-
grounds there are artificial streams on which
children sail their miniature boats. Pergolas have
been erected for the sand courts which during
extremely hot weather are covered with canvas.

“In our grounds the role of the nurses is re-
duced to that of guardians and mothers’ counsel-
ors. They interfere very little with the games of
the children, who are left to themselves and who
have complete liberty. The ground is a club where
each has the same rights, advantages and obliga-
tions.” Children from various types of homes
are brought to the ground—in some cases they
come when the mothers go to work, in others
when they go shopping or when they have social
engagements. It is pointed out that the contacts
which the parents have made on the playgrounds
promise to result in a better understanding among
the women of different social groupings.

According to a report of the General Secretary,
the city of Paris furnishes free of charge all fa-
cilities, sand and other materials. The expendi-
tures for construction and operation are met to
a large degree by the organization entitled
“L’Oeuvre des Squares d’Enfants” of which Mrs.

Stern is President. The expenses of the organi-
zation in 1931 were:

Building Expenses . . . . . . . . . ..261,221. francs
bperating Expenses ........ ..440,243.30 “

The total attendance reported on the five play-
grounds for the year 1931 was 118,610. Only one
of the grounds was open the entire year; two of
them were opened late in May and two the latter
part of July of the year.

Gardening as a Recreation
( Continued from page 23)

their garden plots with judging done by adult
garden club members. A flower and vegetable
show in a downtown store building or at the

library or town hall would serve as a fitting cli-
max to the summer’s activities.

The summer’s garden activities need not be
confined entirely to the care of the garden plots.
And playground leaders to be successful coun—

selors need not be horticulturists or experienced
gardeners.

Gardening, if it is to be recreation in the truest
sense of the word, will include tree and plant
identification hikes, games, dramas, all based upon
legends and true facts in gardening. Such corre-
lating activities as Flower and Vegetable Knowl-
edge, Sharing Garden Pleasures. Garden Handi-
craft and Nature Essays, with attractive award
badges and garden note books are furnished coun-
selors by the Junior Garden Clubs of America
for postage charges only. Adventures in planning
the garden; care of plants; staging a garden battle
with weeds; in fact, every kind of garden activity
presented in detail through the avenue of fUn is
furnished by the Junior Garden Clubs of America.
Instructions for making miniature model gardens,
flower show plans, and plans for garden parties
are also available to Junior Garden Club
counselors.

There are now more than one-quarter of a

million Junior Garden Clubs enrolled in the Jun-
ior Garden Clubs of America. More than half of

RECREATIONS OF THE COLONIAL PERIOD 47

these are entered by teachers who are using the
Junior Garden Clubs of America plan of correlat-
ing garden, flower and nature study in the regular
school curriculum. Leaders of Girl Reserves, Girl
Scouts, Boy Scouts, 4-H Girls and Camp Fire
Girls, are also finding the Junior Garden Clubs
of America plans of great value in their nature
and home beautification activities. .

At the end of the garden season playground
leaders may feel that they have planted a seed
which will grow into a delightful avocation for
futtlre business men who must earn their daily
bread by toil of the brain rather than by sweat of
the brow. And to the tired housewife they have
given a recreation that at its best produces and
conserves the beauty which is one of the greatest
of the three ultimates of life. By promoting in—
terest in the different phases of gardening and
flower growing, they are fostering a very im-
portant institution in the welfare of the human
family, as well as a great addition to civic
improvement.

Recreations of The Colonial Period
( C ontimted from page 34)

and barley grows”; “When I was a shoemaker”;
“Here I brown, Here I bake, Here I make my
wedding cake”; “The needle’s eye that doth sup-
ply”; “Soldier Brown will marry me, marry me”;
“O dear Doctor don’t you cry”; “There’s a rose
in the garden for you young man”; “Ring around
a rosy”; “Go round and round the valley”;
“Quaker, Quaker, How art thee”; “I put my
right foot in”; “My master sent me to you, sir”;
“London Bridge is falling down.” This is inter-
esting because it shows a large variety of activi-
ties. It is surprising that so many of these song
plays are still played.

The Game Plan

( Continued from page 35)

The Values of the Plan

Joseph Lee, President of the National Recre-
ation Association, in writing Captain Creed, said:

“I am very much interested in the game plan.
It provides a sort of education for which every
boy thirsts and just what every boy’s crowd is
continually looking for. It has an object which
requires creation and ingenuity, and above all, is
difficult—three of the main desiderata in educa-

 

 

Notable Swimming Pools and Guide
To Equipment and Supplies

A year-round reference book for
swimming pools and other public
bathing places. A bound volume.

Contains, among other material, the
Rules, Laws and Regulations of the
various States and some cities. The
Regulations were compiled by the
Sanitary Engineering Department of
the State of Illinois.

In this volume every important
phase of the swimming pool and
beach is dealt with by outstanding
engineers and municipal and State
departments—design, operation, con-
struction, sanitation, maintenance,
etc.

Price $2.00

ADDRESS

NOTABLE SWIMMING POOLS and

GUIDE to EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES
114 E. 32nd Street, New York, N. Y.

 

 

 

tion. It also leads toward concrete knowledge of
the community, of what its functions are and how
they can best be fulfilled, and so to the develop—
ment of public spirit—a result that the boy will
not be thinking about but which will be all the
better obtained because not associated in his mind
with being good.

“The stroke of genius in the enterprise was the
application of the sound pedagogic principle of
let—alone. It is a great piece of wisdom, or of
luck, that those who started the idea have not in-
terfered. Grown pe0ple, it is true, should not be
entirely excluded from participation. They can
help a little on the side lines. A suggestion may
be tolerated, even advice occasionally if asked
for. But it is first—handedness that counts, the
‘up-against-it’ that calls out the best in anybody.”

Though the plan originated in Norfolk County,
Massachusetts, there is every reason why it
should be extended to towns, cities, counties, and
states everywhere. Anyone interested in securing
further information may obtain the Game Plan
and accompanying literature by sending 20 cents
to Captain Percy R. Creed, Room 1019, 50 Con—
gress Street, Boston.

New Books on Recreation

 

Junior Manual

By 0. Garfield Jones. Published by the author, 2701
Rathbun Drive, Toledo, Ohio. $1.00 paper bound;
$1.50 cloth bound.

HE PURPOSE of this manual, containing lessons for

leadership within a group and parliamentary pro-
cedure, is to facilitate the development of the art of
group leadership in the schools, particularly in the
groups from the sixth to tenth grades where the club
interest is emerging. Some simplification, as Dr. Jones,
who is Professor of Political Science of the University
of Toledo points out, has been necessary, but in the pro—
cess all the motions have been left that the ordinary club
or society uses in its deliberations, with the result that
seventh grade pupils can learn in a few lessons how to
conduct their group meetings in accordance with this
Junior Manual.

The Junior Manual has been worked out in such a
relation to the Senior Manual, which includes all the
motions in Robert’s Rules of Order, that pupils who
have learned the procedure of the Junior Manual in a
junior high school can when they reach the senior high
school readily learn the more difficult motions included
in the Senior Manual without having to unlearn any-
thing. The author suggests that the Senior Manual be
taught only as an elective in the senior high school for
those students who are socially ambitious and intellectu-
ally keen enough to profit by this more complete tech-
nique for group leadership. The price of the Senior
Manual, which may be secured from the author, is $1.00

paper bound; $1.25 cloth bound.

Free-Time Activities for Unemployed

Young Men

By E. C. Worman. Occasional Studies No. 12. Asso-
ciation Press, 347 Madison Avenue, New York. $.75.

HIs “SAMPLING of experience in the Young Men’s

Christian Associations” tells the interesting story of
a number of typical unemployment service projects, such
as community clubs, programs of recreation in. unused
building space, vocational guidance conferences, a job
finders' club, an unemployed wood-workers’ exhibit, and
similar projects. The booklet contains suggestions which
will be helpful for recreation workers providing activi-
ties for the unemployed.

May Day—Child Health Day

American Child Health Association, 450 Seventh Avenue,
New York. $.10.

IN PREPARING for Child Health Day in 1933 (May 1st),
the American Child Health Association has issued a
pamphlet giving briefly some of the results of Child
Health Day in 1932 and offering some general sugges-
tions for the observance of the day in 1933.

48

Rules for Girls' Activities

Spalding’s Athletic Library. $.25 each.

HE AMERICAN Physical Education Association,
through its Women’s Rules and Editorial Commit-
tee, publishes seven booklets on Rules for Girls’ Activi-
ties with appropriate articles and suggestions for their
more effective teaching. These include Women’s Ojicial

Handbook, with Rules for Track and Field and a num-
ber of athletic games; W omen’s Basketball Guide—1932—

1933; Women’s Soccer Guide (also Field Ball); ,Out-
door Baseball for Women; Aquatics for Women and
Girls with official swimming rules; I’Vomen’s [Vinter
Activities, and Field Hockey Guide. These booklets
which are available through athletic outfitters or from
the American Sports Publishing Company, New York
City, are exceedingly valuable for the recreation worker,
representing as they do the result of painstaking experi-
mentation and the best judgment of hundreds of women
who work with girls in the field of physical education.

What To Do In Westchester—
How—When—What lt Costs

Published by C. J. Nuttall, Chappaqua, New York. $.35.

AOUIDE To THE recreational facilities of Westchester
County, New York, Eboth publicly and privately main-
tained, this attractive booklet offers a practical listing of
activities of many kinds. Any community group wishing
to issue a guide of this nature will find the Westchester
publication exceedingly helpful.

OfiicErs and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

OHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
Ol-IN G. \VINAxT, Second Vice-President
OEERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAYUS T. KIRDY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W‘. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. COREETT Portland Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUDEE DAYISON, Locust Valley, L. I. N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EOISON, West Orange,  J.
OHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.
UGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vash.
WILLIAM HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York N. Y.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainiield, N. J.
GUSTAYUS T. KIRDY, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
OSEPH LEE Boston, Mass.
DWARD E. ,LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.
J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Washington, D. C.
FREDERch S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, {'Ru Washington, D. C.
. C. WALSH, New York, N. .
REDERICK M. WARDURO, New York, N. Y.
OHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
I RS. WILLIAM H. WOODIN, JR., Plainfield, N. J.

 

