On Getting One's Hands in the Earth

IRST IN the sand. Then in the mud. Good old mud pies, hung

F up on the gate to bake in the sun. And don’t forget the good

old sqush sqush of one’s feet in the mud after a rain storm.

The only drawback was the cleaning up afterwards. Parents have
such queer notions as to soap and water.

In these early childhood days there was no particular joy in
“working” in the garden. Return was too long delayed. The rows
of beans and peas were too long, too straight. There was no inner
urge for the continuous pulling of weeds—a few weeds pulled gave
the sensation. “What a powerful boy am I”—but why continue?
The sun was too hot. After all in childhood days gardening was apt
to be not self-initiated, but from outer urge of parents. Yet who
would want to give up children’s gardens?

With mature years, for many the coming of the spring means
an inner urge to get one's hands in the earth. For many there is a
healing in the feeling of the soil that nothing else can give. Year
after year there is the miracle of seed time and harvest time. There
is the joy of watching for the hrst green shoot in the flower garden,
the nrst bud, the first flower. '

Nurture of the plant creates something inside. Caring for the
plant and shrub not only makes more plant and shrub, but more
boy. Something is there that was not before.

“The good earth” is not a careless phrase. It is good that all of
us be exposed to the good earth and those of us who find it truly
good should forever and ever not get too far away from the soil we
love. Yet many of us would not willingly part with our childhood
memories of mud pies or adult memories of our gardens.

HOWARD BRAUCI-IER.

 

 

August, I933

 

 

209

The Best of Midsummer Sports!

"The more young people we can teach to swim,
the more individuals we will add to society who
have learned something For other than economic
reasons. Education tor enioyment and education
For tine living are not in need otdetense. One has
only to observe the mistaken zeal of those who

210

 

think of lite in terms of Financial rewards, trusting
somehow that later on, when success comes,
happiness may be bought."-—/esse Feiring Williams
in Swimming Simpiified, by Lyba and Nita
Shegieid. Published by A. S. Barines and Company,
New York.

Land and Water in the Recreation 'Program

By LEBERT H. WEIR

N ational Recreation Association

E WHO are engaged, along with many other
agencies in America today, in attempting to'

preserve some of the fine gifts of Nature
for the use of the people through their leisure time
realize that two of the most fundamental natural
elements in this campaign are first, land, and
second, water. ’

For several years this question has been a very
live one with several national and local agencies.
Too much credit cannot be given to the work of
our Federal Government in the preservation of
streams, lakes and ocean fronts through national
parks, fish and game preserves, national forests
and river and harbor improvements of many
kinds; to the work that has been done in recent
years by the National Conference on State Parks
and by the several states in preserving streams,
lakes and in some instances, ocean fronts; to the
efforts of various counties in conserving water
fronts in county parks, and to the activities of
numerous municipalities throughout the nation in
providing water front parks along rivers, lakes
and ocean. Even in small municipalities some
notable achievements are to be recorded in this
respect. The small city of Geneva, New York,
has acquired about 2.2 miles of the north shore of
beautiful Lake Seneca and is rapidly developing
it as one of the chief outdoor recreation centers
of that region. During this year the Fairfield
County Planning Association has made a detailed
study of the entire shore line of this county front-
ing on Long Island Sound. Definite plans have
been formulated for the acquisition of additional
areas of shore “line and for the further develop-
ment of existing and to be acquired shore lines.

There are hundreds of such examples
throughout the United States today
which might be mentioned through the
work of all these several national and
local agencies.

During these years of depression the

importance of water fronts on stream, lake and
ocean has become more evident than ever before
and the use of them by the people during this
present year, for example, will amount to a total
far in excess of the use that has been made of
them in any one year that has passed.

Certain great social and economic changes have
taken place in American life that emphasize the
importance of preserving many of our natural
resources for the recreation of the pe0ple.

The Urbanization of Population

Up to the close of the nineteenth century we as
a people were primarily an open country dwelling
people. The progress of the urbanization of our
population has, however, been going on through
the whole of this century, slowly during the first
half of the century and developing with increasing
rapidity toward the close of the century. But as
late as 1880 only about 22.7 per cent of the total
population of the nation dwelt and worked in
cities of 8,000 population and over. By 1920 the
urban population outnumbered the rural p0pula-
tion (51.4 per cent) and in 1930 the urban pop—
ulation had risen still higher, or between 54 and
56 per cent. These percentages do not tell the
entire story of what had happened. There were
only about 25 per cent of the entire population left
on the farms while about 75 per cent of the entire
population either lived and worked directly in
urban communities or depended on urban activi-
ties for their livelihood.

Many personal and social evils have followed
this sudden transformation of the living and
working environment and habits of life of the

The economic and social changes in American life which
have greatly increased the necessity for the preservation
of natural resources for recreation, were stressed by
Mr. Weir in an address presented before a meeting of
the American Shore and Beach Preservation Association.

211

212 ' LAND AND iVATER IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM

people. The annual crime bill of the United
States is estimated to be between $10,000,000 and
$13,000,000 a year. According to competent med-
ical authorities the strain of modern life in cities
is causing an'increase in diseases of the heart,
nervous system and digestive system. The chances
of men of before and at middle life living to a ripe
old age have decreased. Insanity is increasing at an
alarming rate, as are suicides. The amount of
housing space per family has decreased. The Child
Health and Protective Conference reports that 45,-
000,000 children under eighteen years of age spend
outside the school and home a startlingly large per-
centage of their time. There are insufficient play-
grounds and playfields and parks in all our cities.
There are insufficient opportunities for the people
crowded into our cities to renew contact with the
soil and water and growing things.

One might continue to
enumerate the evils and
half evils which have
sprung from what we
have done during the
past half century and
especially during the past
twenty-five years, but
let us now turn to some
of the factors that have
brought about anounpa-
ralleled change in the
living and working ha-
bits of the people.

Q

New Knowledge
Brings Changes

The root of this change
may be found in the vast
increase in our know—
ledge of the forces and
laws of nature, in our
knowledge of the com-
position of matter and
how to transform it into
new forms and the ap-
lication of the whole of
this new knowledge to
doing the work of our
world. Few in America
realize the remarkable _ .
growth of this know-   i
ledge and how it has
been used in providing
machines and new pro-

 

One of the most important recreational ser-
vices a state or municipal government can
offer is provision of safe swimming places. WOI'k-

cesses for the making of things. It is this that is
at the bottom of our remarkable revolution where-
by we turned an entire nation within practically
two generations into a nation primarily industrial
and commercial as contrasted to a previous history
of about 250 years as an agricultural people.

In 1908 a noted German scholar compiled and
published a large book containing a list of scien—
tific discoveries and inventions which he was able
to record by dates during the past several centu-
ries. His findings summarized were:

For the century ending 1400.... 33
For the century ending 1500.... 50
For the century ending 1600.... 127
For the century ending 1700.... 218
For the century ending 1800.... 680
For the century ending 1900.... 2,880

In contrast to this in the United States alone in

1930 there were 45,000
patents applied for and
granted at the United
States Patent Office. It
is further stated that the
total number of scientific
discoveries and inven-
tions not presented for
patent was probably
greater than the number
patented. A very large
percentage of these dis-
coveries and inventions
had as their object the
diSplacement of man-
po wer by machine-
power.

The following are a
few examples of the
progress of science and
invention in producing
labor—saving devices in
industry and commerce
in America within com—
paratively recent years.

I. In the brick mak-
ing industry one brick
making machine can turn
out from 30,000 to 40,-
000 bricks an hour,
whereas it formerly took
one man eight hours to
make 500 bricks by the
old method of hand

LAND AND WATER IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM 213

2. In the steel industry the new automatic
puddler can, with a force of 150 nien, turn out
500 tons more iron in a given space of time than
400 men could formerly do by the old methods.

A new device for loading pig iron enables three
men in a given space of time to load as much as
formerly 128 men could load.

In the operation of furnaces seven or eight men
can now do what formerly required 60.

In a Midwest steel rolling mill .a new machine
2,100 feet long has been installed. It operates
from a central control board and requires only
12 men who have little to do except push buttons.

3. In the automobile industry 30 men now
do with the aid of new machines the work that

formerly required 100 men.

In a certain factory manutacturing automobile
frames and employing 200 men it is possible to
turn out from 8,000 to 10,000 frames a day. In
Central Europe there is a well known factory
turning out automobile frames of the same type
as the American factory and employing the same
number of men, but the European factory has a

daily output of about 35 frames.

4. In the razor blade industry a single worker
now turns out with the aid of new machines 32,-
000 blades a day, while in 1913 he was able to
turn out but about 500.

5. In the manufacture of cigarettes an expert
worker could formerly make by hand about 2,200
cigarettes a day. One machine with three unskilled
workers can turn out now 160,000 cigarettes a
day.

In the days of hand rolled cigars one skilful
worker could make about 2,000 cigars a week.

Today four girls operating one cigar making-

machine can turn out about 4,000 cigars in nine
hours or 24,000 cigars in a week of six days.

6. In transportation on railroads the introduc—
tion of mechanical firing apparatus by some of the
western and southwestern railroads resulted in
the discharge of 17,000 firemen. Since 1920 it is
reported that the railroads have reduced their
working force by about 235,000 men.

7. It is reported that about 70 per cent‘ of the
output of the baking industry may be classed as
machine product.

8. The telegraph printing machines that can be
operated by cheap labor are responsible for thous-
ands of telegraphers losing their jobs.

9. The ticket taking turnstiles in subways,
elevated trains, amusement parks and public parks,
have thrown many thousand ticket takers out of

jobs.

10. Automatic car doors have relieved many
thousand brakemen of their work.

1 1. Card sorting machines to analyze statistics,
tickets and reports, now do this kind of work with
a speed and accuracy that no human bookkeeper
or statistician can equal. Likewise calculating
machines perform the most abstruse mathematical
calculations and computations in a fraction of the
time needed for the same task by a human mathe-

matician.

12. Glass blowing machines have made such
inroads on the glass blowers that very few of the
old school of glass blowers are left and their once
powerful unions have been dissolved. An electric
lamp machine recently installed has a reported
production of 531,000 lamp globes a day, an in-
crease per man of 9,000 times the method previ-

ously employed.

13. The coal industry, which has always been
far overmanned under the old methods, has been
plunged into further difficulties by the introduc-
tion of electric drills, electric loading devices and

other types of labor-saving machines.

14. The talking moving pictures and the radio
have put many actors and musicians on the bread

line.

15. A factory for the production of rayon
yarn has been constructed in New Jersey. Its'
operation is entirely mechanical and production
can be carried on twenty-four hours a day with-
out a single worker in the plant.

These few examples serve to show the tremend-
ous progress thathas been made and is being made
now in the development of labor-saving devices.
This movement has not only invaded all phases of
industry strictly defined but also fields of activity
in commerce, the professions, the farms and the
homes of the people. Along with the wider and
wider use of machines in human industrial, com-
mercial agricultural, professional and domestic
activities, have come new methods of scientific
management that seek to get the maximum output
from each individual worker in the shortest pos-
sible time at the lowest possible cost. Every merg-
er, every consolidation in different lines of indust-
ry and financial institutions, has resulted in the
loss of positions by many workers.

214 LAND AND WATER IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM

To summarize these advances in technology, it
is reported that the present horsepower of our
machines is about 1,000,000,000, equivalent to the
energy output of about 10,000,000,000 working
men. It is further said that only about 9,000,000
men are required to direct this enormous energy.
It is estimated that it would be possible to do most
of the needed industrial, commercial and agricul—
tural work of the nation by the Use of the labor
of only about 15,000,000 workers.

Social and Economic Changes.

The advances of this new technology have al-
ready brought social and economic changes of
tremendous import to the American people, as
shown in the remarkable changes enumerated in
the living and working habits and environment of
the people. There is every reason to believe that
the work of our scientists and inventors will con—
tinue and that the volume of knowledge of nat—
ural laws and forces and of how to apply them to
doing our work will increase more rapidly in the
future than it has in the past. This may result in
the gradual formation of a new social and econo—
mic philosophy and in the establishment of a new
order of society. Our primary concern, however,
is with the possibilities of the new technology in
freeing men from long hours of toil in order to
gain the means of living. Already the hours of
labor have been substantially shortened. It has
not been so long ago when men in many industrial
and commercial fields of activity worked from
'ten to fourteen hours per day. The average day
is now eight hours. A few of the leading indust-
ries have established a six hour day and a five day
week, and there is a growing demand for the uni—
versal establishment of such a schedule of work.

The past century and a quarter of our national
history was marked by an extraordinary expan-
sion territorially and by a tremendous exploitation
of the natural resources of this great territory.
In this conquest of our material frontier or series
of frontiers the mantlal and acquisitive powers of
the people were developed to a remarkable degree.
We were looked on by the older countries of the
world as wonderfully efficient and successful in
producing and handling things but lacking in cul-
ture. By that they meant in part that we did not
love learning or knowledge for its own sake, that
we had no great art in music, the drama, painting,
sculpture, architectUre, literature, that was the
common possession of all the people, that our

manners were often insufferable, that our use of
language was crude and moreover that we were
not a happy people. ,And there was much of truth

and still is in what they felt and often said about
us.

Now our great material frontiers are gone for—
ever. A new age is being ushered in—the Age of
Leisure. Leisure is the handmaid of all the arts,
of all learning, of culture in its broadest sense.
we are now entering into a period of our history
when there will be opportunity to explore and ex-
ploit a new kind of frontier, the frontier of the
possibilities of the development in our pe0ple of
something more than the manual and acquisitive
powers and qualities. There seems to be no reason
why we should not in the remaining decades of
this century go a long way in developing a civiliza-
tion that is representative of the possibilities of
the whole man—in good health and fine physique,
in breadth of mentality, in a liner and higher ap-
preciation of all the great arts, in capacities for
neighborliness and friendliness, and in the attain-
ment of a more universal degree of harmonious
adjustment of the people to themselves and their
environment in general that will yield the maxi-
mum of satisfaction or happiness in living.

The problem of our day is to develop in the
minds of the people a concept of a new set of
values of what is worth while in life and to con—
struct an environment whereby this great gift of
the machine—leisure—may be used to the attain—
ment of the above mentioned worthy ends.

In this gigantic task the preserving of the na-
tural resources represented by those places where
the waters and the lands of the world meet is one
of the necessary steps. The seas and lakes and
their shores have always been a SOLIrce of strength,
refreshment and inspiration to mankind. They
will be even more necessary for such purposes
in the new age.

“The world is chock full of things to enjoy——
fascinating, beautiful things to thrill over, new
sciences to pursue, new books and plays to un-
derstand and appreciate, new theories of govern-
ment and social organization, new sports, strange
countries and peoples to explore through books,
old arts and new ones to comprehend and prac-
tice—with all of these nobody need get stale, even
if he has a hundred years of leisure.”——Albert E.
Bailey, Dean, Butler University, Indianapolis,
Indiana.

 

A Recreation Department Meets an Emergency

ELF PRESERVATION has long

been recognized as the first

law of nature. When the
earthquake occurred at 5 :56
P. M. on the evening of March
IO, 1933, the recreation employees of Long Beach,
California, like all other individuals, looked first
of all to the immediate safety of their families
and loved ones and of themselves.

Saturday morning, March 11th, when our play—
ground directors reported at their areas they
found a large influx of citizens who had taken
refuge in the various city parks, since many
homes were considered unsafe while some were
more or less demolished. Because many of the
stores were closed and business was temporarily
paralyzed, many of these refugees were in im—
mediate need of food and shelter. In one of our
city parks, which was typical of all, several of
the play directors and other members of the Rec-
reation Commission’s employed staff took up a
collection among themselves and purchased a
large quantity of coffee which they served from
the Park Coffee House to those in need. It was
temporarily impossible to requisition these sup—
plies through the regular channels since the
emergency called for immediate action.

By WALTER L. SCOTT

Coordinating Director

Municipal and School Recreation
Long Beach. California

By noon of the first day fol—
lowing the quake, hundreds of
people were pouring into all the
city parks, feeling more secure
in the wide open green spaces
underneath the friendly trees than they did near
tall buildings, brick apartments and homes whose
stability had not been checked.

A meeting of the employed recreation staff was
called almost immediately in order to review the
situation which had been so abruptly thrust upon
them. Dr. Frank Harnett, Assisitant Director of
Municipal Recreation, presided at this meeting
and outlined city wide plans for the ensuing days.
The need was apparent for a complete reorgani—
zation of our recreation staff to handle the emer—
gency. Most of our part time employees were im-
mediately requested to report for full time duty
and a call was made for volunteer workers. Ap—
proximately one hundred full time and part time
employees started work at once and about the
same number of volunteers reported for assign—
ment. The 'duties of our recreation staff for the
first two or three days consisted of anything but
recreation work!

Our municipal supervisor of aquatics. Mr.
Frank Davenport, was placed in charge of the

215

216 A RECREATION DEPARTMENT MEETS AN EMERGENCY

large refugee camp at Houghton Park and all
activities in this area were centered under his
direction.

Entertainment Program Developed

People were not interested in active recreation
for several days following the disaster. Enthusi—
astic play directors attempted to organize base-
ball games for boys, but soon discovered that
these young Americans were much more inter—
ested in viewing the damage done those structures
in which they had peculiar interest. All efforts
to promote highly organized activities of any de-
scription seemed futile. The recreation stafi,
therefore, decided temporarily to promote an en-
tertainment program. A typical evening program
in Recreation Park was somewhat as follows:

I. Thirty minutes of community singing con—
ducted by a well trained song leader.

2. Talk by a local minister, designed to build
courage and good cheer in the minds of the
listeners.

3. Twenty minutes of songs, dialogues or musi-
cal selections presented by radio artists, ama-
teur entertainers, or occasionally school
children.

4. Stirring band concerts such as those played by
the famous Long Beach Municipal Band under
the direction of He'rbert L. Clark.

5. Dance programs organized for students and
others which usually concluded the evening’s
program.

Mr. Clyde Doyle, President of the Long Beach
Recreation Commission, who worked tirelessly
during the entire emergency, while visiting some
of these programs at Recreation Park, suggested
that this type of pro—
gram be promoted in
all the parks of the
city for the refugees.
Miss Helen Huston,
Supervisor of Social
Recreation for the
Long Beach Recrea-
tion Commission,was
placed in charge of
the organization and
promotion of such
entertainment pro-
grams on a city-
wide basis. All ama-
teur and professional
entertainers were re

quested through newspaper columns and radio
announcements to report to Miss Huston for as-
signment. SOOn her temporary office at Recrea-
tion Park was flooded with individuals who had
responded to the emergency request. Musicians,
vocalists, both amateur and professional radio en—
tertainers, choruses, church choirs, orchestras,
and bands were assigned in rapid succession.
Members of the Ministerial Association volun-
teered their services for talks and religious serv-
ices as needed. VVith this array of talent, Miss
Huston was qualified immediately to put on two
programs daily in all city parks.

The attendance at these programs was very
gratifying to members of the employed staff and
the Recreation Commission members who were
all working hard for the success of these events.
During the two weeks’ period following the earth-
quake, eighty-five such community programs were
offered in the city parks alone and were attended
by approximately 200,000. These programs were
of sufficient interest to draw people of all ages.
The temporary influx of those desiring entertain-
ment was especially noted for the moving picture
shows, the band concerts and the evening dance
programs.

Some of the organizations' that volunteered
their services for these programs came from a
considerable distance. Chaffee Junior College,
Ontario, furnished a band and choir. Los Angeles
and the Los Angeles Playground and Recreation
Department furnished numerous grOLIps of enter-

(Continucd on page 250)

After the first shock of the disaster more
active forms of recreation became popular.

 

 

The Milwaukee Players

that of the Milwaukee Players in the produc-
tion of Shakespeare’s A Winter’s Tale. But
it was highly successful from every point of view!
The play was presented on three consecutive
evenings on the spelndidly equipped stage of the
new Girls Trade and Technical High School. The
workshop unit of the Players made the sets and
properties, building the throne, benches and other
furniture required. The wall hanging of beauti-
ful silk painted with Russian Kraftrite colors was
also “home-made.”

Each member of the Players represented one
of the social centers maintained by the Extension
Department of' the Milwaukee Public Schools,
and the cast of players was composed of the out-
standing players from the one act play contest
held the preceding year. This plan is followed
each year and results in adding about twenty
players every season to the group. The procedure
created keen interest among the drama groups in
the centers all of whom work very hard for the
honor of being represented by players.

IT WAS AN ambitious and difficult undertaking,

J

A C00perative Undertaking

A Winter’s Tale was a cooperative undertak~
ing to which many departments of the social cen-
ters contributed. The dressmaking department of

in "A Winter’s Tale"

each center made the costumes worn by its play-
ers and took great pride in making them as beau-
tiful as possible. The leading characters were
dressed in velvets, the ladies in brocaded silk, the
gentlemen of the court in duvetyn. The embroid-
ered bands of Perdita’s white gown were hand
painted in gay peasant embroidery effect. The
music was presented by the different social center
orchestras each night.

The cast was a veritable League of Nations!
There were two Greeks, several Italians, a num-
ber of Poles, a German and a Russian. The list
of occupations is even more interesting. The
supervisor of the court bottles beer in the Pabst
brewery. King Polixenes is a hosiery knitter,
Camillo, a truck driver. One of the lords is a
plumber and the old shepherd a molder. King
Leontes holds a clerical position in an insurance
ofhce. Only one of the boys of the cast has gone
beyond high school. Two of the women in the
grOLIp are attending State Teachers College. One.
member of the cast is a stenographer, one a hair-
dresser, one a clerk; the rest are at present un-
employed.

The drama activities promoted by the Exten-
sion Department each year are becoming a more
important part of the city’s social center program.

' 217

Recreation in Westchester County

An experiment in county recreation organization
in successful operation for more than ten years

11 ID YOU have a good time?”
D This question, with its
answers of varying en—
thusiasm, recurs innumerable times on the lips of
all of us in friendly intercourse, especially during
the current vacation months.

Questions which never occur to us are: “Are
you capable of having a good time? Have you
realized your potentialities of happiness? Has
this advanced society placed at your disposal the
means of satisfying your innate love of play?
And, given the means, has your up-bringing been
so conditioned as to make response possible?”

The answer for most of us is probably, and
alas, “No”! Some years ago the reply in the
negative would have met with indifference. Noth—
ing could be less disturbing than the suggestion
that we had “nothing worthwhile to do” in our
spare hours. After all, gaining a livelihood or
keeping house or striving to out-do someone else
in a chosen profession provided more than suf-
ficient activities with which to fill the day.

But recognition of the inevitable increase in
modern man’s idle hours, and of the harmful and
costly character of many of today’s leisure time
pursuits, calls for a restatement of the “good
time” formula. The public seems on the whole
to be unaware of this ne—
cessity, but here and there

By E. DANA CAULKINS

our civilization.” (“The Lost Art
of Play,” Ernest Elmo Calkins,
Atlantic Monthly, April. 1933.)

Again at about the same time, there was re-
printed from Teachers College Record a paper
“Training for Leisure,” by George A. Lundberg
of the Department of Sociology of Columbia
University, in which the question: “\Vhat will
people do with this constantly increasing leisure
time ?" is discussed on the basis of being “at least
as challenging as any (question) now occupying
the attention of social scientists.”

Whether the wise use of leisure is termed the
“art of play,” the first writer’s designation, or is
characterized as a legitimate object of scientific
study, Dr. Lundberg’s contention, matters little.
Play or science, the fact remains that leisure is
becoming ever more important in the scheme of
things.

Today, awareness of its growing importance is
a matter of more or less general recognition. Ten
years ago only those with unusual acumen could
foresee the coming necessity for community action
on the subject. Towns and cities here and there
awoke to the increasing need for recreational op-—
portunities offered at the public expense. Stand—
ing out as a conspicuous pioneer was one large
grouP of communities in
the East, comprising cit—

the idea is constantly
creeping up. We find, for
instance, in a recent issue
of one of the country’s
most highly respected lit—
erary periodicals, a dis—
cussion of what “an entire
nation which has never
learned to play” is going
to do with the “great gift
of leisure,” the wise use
of which constitutes “the
most important influence
on the future course of

218

Mr. Caulkins has been prominent in recreation
for the past twenty years. Formerly associated
with the National Recreation Association, he
is now assistant as vice-president to Gustavus
T. Kirby, President, Public Schools Athletic
League, New York City. He also serves as
head of the Division of Recreation of the Ad-
iustment Service of the American Association
for Adult Education, and is organizer 'of, and
lecturer for, the Wingate Athletic Lectures.
In his home community he acts as Chairman
of the Youth Emergency Activities Committee
of the Children's Association. Mr. Caulkins'
endorsement of the Westchester County Rec-
reation Commission is founded on disinteres-
ted observation as o resident of the county
and on occasional contacts as friendy advisor.

les, towns, villages and
farm districts where a
far—flung and ever—active
public recreation program
was put in motion. West-
chester County, lying
north of New York City
b e t w e e 11 Long Island
Sound and the Hudson
River with a total popula-
tion of 521,000, instituted
such a program in 1922.
The progress of the
\VestcheSter C o u n t y

RECREATION IN WESTCHESTER COUNTY 219

The County Center
which houses the
Workshop and many
of the activities of
the County Recrea-
tion Commission.

r

Recreation Com-
mission has been
watched w i t h
some eagerness
by those who ap-
preciate its sig-
nificant contri-

bution to com-
munity life. Serving as a model not only for local

recreation boards within the county boundaries,
but for communities wherever thought is given
to organized recreation, the \Vestchester Recrea-
tion Commission fulfills an important fUnction.
The statistics alone are noteworthy, revealing that
approximately 26,700 men, women and children
engaged regularly in the leisure time activities
sponsored by the Commission in the year ending
last December.

Recreational Arts

The outstanding accomplishment of this group,
however, is its successful experiment with the
cultural aspects of recreation. Among the county’s
residents, from childhood to old age, the Commis—
sion uncovered a‘n unsuspected urge to participate
in the various forms of creative expression: art,
sculpture and the crafts, music, the dance, drama
and writing. Here, indeed, were hobbies worthy
of wide development. Judged by Dr. Lundberg’s
criterion, they seem to fulfill the four main re-
quirements of a desirable leisure pursuit, which
are, to quote again from his paper on “Training
for Leisure,” as follows:

“(1) It must have the capacity for being relatively
permanetly interesting; (2) It must be as different as
possible from the activities which our station in life
forces upon us; (3) It should as far as possible have
both its origin and its fulfillment in the individual him-
self rather than in invidious coercions of the social or
the economic order; (4) It should be at least compatible

with, if not conducive to, physical and mental health and
personality development.”

 

A sympathetic study of the individuals who
partake in the \Vestchester-sponsored programs
of art, music and the theater, reveals to what ex-
tent these occupations are (I) interesting, (2)
different, (3) spontaneous and (4) wholesome.
Oblivion to all but the canvas and the model, the
sheet of music, the half—finished piece of pottery,
or the play-script, marks the faces of followers
of these pastimes. Their spontaneous interest is
undeniable. As for the second requirement, dif—
ference from routine activities, a survey of the
personnel of art classes, choral and other groups,
discloses the presence of men and women from
every profession and trade. The housewife, the
lawyer, the stenographer, the mechanic, find new
fields opened to them through the facilities placed
at their disposal by the county-wide organization.
Perhaps talents that were tentatively encouraged
in school days have remained latent throughout a
maturity which would have been enriched by
their development.

For many it has been proved that the most
satisfying relaxation from socially obligatory ac-
tivities is to be found in practise of the arts.

Again, a glance at the participants is revealing.
The refreshing influence of the hobby is convinc-
ingly expressed on the faces of those departing
from rehearsals or periods of study. They ap-
pear to come away from the workshop with a
new lease on life; hence, the fourth rule for a
desirable leisure pursuit, health and personality
deve10pment, is observed.

220 RECREATION IN IVESTCHESTER COUNTY

 

Services to Communities

Long before this four-fold defini-
tion had been formulated, the West-
chester County Recreation Commission was en-
gaged in providing people with opportunities for
just such “desirable leisure pursuits.” Its essen-
tial functions, however, were and are to promote
recognition of the necessity for worthwhile forms
of leisure time activities among the citizens of
every community within the county’s borders and
to organize the county’s resources toward pro-
vision for this necessity. Thus, in 1932, the
county organization set the pace for thirty-fOUr
local recreation groups, active in as many wide-
spread Westchester communities. Invaluable as-
sistance other than that of an advisory nature
was given many of the local bodies. The training
of playground directors; the preparation of bud-
gets; the selecting of
recreation executives;
the instigation of cam-
paigns resulting in ap-
propriations of necessary funds;
the calling of meetings of inter-
ested citizens, village trustees or
education boards; the formulating
of programs—these are a few of
the services rendered community

recreation agencies by the county
commission. The county program
gave support to and set standards
for the local programs; the local
programs largely made possible
the county program, establishing
an ideal system of interdependence.

In addition to specific services

Classes in sculptirre are arranged
at the Workshop for all interested.

Sketching groups often go out-of-
doors in search of their subiects.

to each city and village there are a num-
ber of general services to all communi-
ties rendered by the Commission which
should be mentioned. For five years, for
instance, when numerous communities
were starting local summer playgrounds,
which last year reached the number of
103, the County Recreation Commission
conducted a ten-weeks course for the
training of playground leaders. Mount
Vernon,'Yonkers, Port Chester and East-
chester subsequently started similar
COUrses for their own workers when the
number of workers became sufficiently
numerous to justify the offering of a
local training course. In each of these
courses several members of
the county staff were used
as instructors. In June of
this year, at the invitation
of the Mount Vernon Recreation Commission.
all local recreation commissions offered a training
institute for summer playground workers. The
program for this institute was set up by the staff
of the County Commission and all-year-round
executives of local places collaborated in the
instruction.

During the summer months specialists on the
county staff visit local.playgrounds and assist
local directors in their work. This assistance is
particularly effective and needful in the smaller
communities where the funds allowed for recre-
ation are so small that well trained and experi-
enced employees cannot be secured. Last summer
there became available certain funds for the em-
ployment of white-collared workers on
emergency Work relief. The County
Commission opened twelve playgrounds

 

RECREATION IN WESTCHESTER COUNTY 221

in districts where no
playgrounds had been
conducted before which
w e r e supervised by
such emergency work-
ers.
In addition to the
communities in which
organized recreation
has been made possible
through the constant
assistance of the
C o u n t y Commission,
there are many smaller
communities in which
public recreation pro-
jects are attempted
from time to time. The
County Commission is
depended upon a great
deal in connection with
such special projects.
Many of these are un-
dertaken by the public
schools. From time to
time in nearly all of the
communities crises .occur
when the service of an ex-
perienced outside agency is much needed. For
example, when an executive leaves his position or
is discontinued, the staff of the County Commis-
sion is depended upon to render local assistance
in the interim between such time and the selection
of a new executive.

The services 'of the county agency are ex-
tremely valuable to local districts from the point
of view of economy. Recently it came to the at—
itention of the County Commission that one village
had spent $3,000 for a summer playground pro-
gram which could have been effectively carried
out at an expenditure of no more than $1,200.
A program involving this sum was outlined there
for this summer.

Only 'a centralized, efficient and experienced
organization such as the Westchester County Rec-
reation Commission could undertake the task of
competently advising and helping in the local
programs, conducting at the same time a year-
round project of its own. The work of the Com-
mission, supported by appropriations of the Board
of Supervisors, is entrusted to a staff of experts
in their respective nelds, with George Hjelte,
Superintendent of Recreation, in charge of the

 

For several years a circus wagon travelled
about among the various towns of the county-

program. The Commis—
sion itself is made up
of five prominent VVest-
chester women: Mrs.
Eugene Meyer, Chair-
man; Miss Ruth Tay-
lor, who is also the
county’s Commissioner
of Public Welfare, Sec-
retary; Mrs. Paul Re—
vere Reynolds, Mrs.
Thomas Blain and Mrs.
John Tyssowski. With
a singular oneness of
purpose, commission
and staff members have
worked “to the end that
an ever increasing num-
ber of people may 6nd
growth, happiness and
enrichment o f li fe
through participation in
worthwhile activities.”
In music, art and ath-
letics, the culminating
events take place in the
County Center, the huge
building in White Plains
containing an auditorium seating 5000, a Little
Theater seating 500, art studios and galleries and
exposition rooms.

The Story in Figures

Told in figures, the Commission’s accomplish—
ments for last year are impressive. Seventeen in-
door and outdoor sports drew out over 9500 as
contestants in county—sponsored events, attract-
ing a total attendance of 70,000 spectators.

Music as recreation provided the next largest
number of Westchesterites with a worthwhile
leisure time pursuit. About 6500 amateur musi-
cians took part in weekly rehearsals for local con-
certs and Spring festivals at the County Center.
Of these I600 were adults belonging to twenty—
seven different choral societies affiliated with the
VVestchester Choral Society, which presents the
Music Festival annually; 3600 were school chil-
dren of the county organized in eighty-two dis-
tricts to take part in chorus, orchestra or band of
the Junior Music Festival; 900 were Negroes
whose weekly meetings to sing spirituals and
oratorios culminated in the yearly Song Jubilee;

222 RECREATION IN IVESTCHESTER COUNTY

200 were amateur members of symphony orches-
tras; and 100 belonged to the Chamber Music
Society, a laboratory for amateur instrumentalists
of \Vestchester.

The Westchester Workshop conducted thirty-
one courses at the Center for 1300 individuals
under the direction of Mrs. Chester Geppert
Marsh, the first head of the Recreation Commis-
sion prior to Mr. H jelte’s appointment. Classes
included all the graphic arts, sculpture, commer—
cial art, every craft, creative writing, art appre—
ciation, motion pictures photography, stage-craft,
interior decorating, marionette making, furniture
making and other forms of inventive design. Ac-
cording to figures on attendance, the following
proved most popular: pottery, sculpture, mixed
crafts, creative writing, loom weaving, leather
work, jewelry making and painting. To encour-
age art activities, the \Vorkshop cooperated with
the \Vestchester Arts and Crafts Guild in spon-
soring art exhibitions by well known county resi-
dents; over 7000 individuals visited the Center
gallery during the course of the season.

That the theater and dancing were also proved
indispensable in a community’s recreation pro-
gram was revealed in the Commission’s 1932 re-
port. Twenty-seven Little Theater groups were
affiliated with the \Vestchester Drama Associa-
tion, sponsored by the Commission, with a total
membership .of about 1350 men and women. In
dancing, twelve local studios
participated in the Commis-
sion’s county-wide Dance Fes-
tival inaugurated a year ago,
and one hundred yotmg womeii
and children were enrolled in
the Commission - sponsored,
weekly classes at the County
Center.

In addition to organized
sports, outdoor activities i11-
cluded the organization of one
hundred and sixty walking en—
thusiasts into the Westchester
Trails Association which con-
ducted hikes and outings dur-

Music as a popular form of lei-
sure time activity ranks second
only to outdoor sports, drawing
large numbers of participants.

ing the season. Almost 800 boys and girls were
enrolled in the camps conducted for the benefit
of county residents by the Commission, while
6000 children participated in playground pro-
grams under Commission direction.

\Vhen this statistical summary of the West-
chester Commission’s activities during 1932 was
submitted to the County Board of Supervisors
this Spring, there was presented with it an intro-
ductory note by Mr. Hjelte, without which the
record of accomplishment is incomplete. In part,

he wrote:

“In keeping ‘before the public the appeal of, as well as
the opportunities for, participation in music, drama, art
and outdoor recreations the Westchester County Recre—
ation Commission is rendering a service much more vast
than is indicated 'by the year’s statistical rec0rd of actual
participation in or attendance at organized activities.
Witness for example the cumulative effect of the or-
ganization of a Chamber Music Society, an activity in-
troduced into the program of the Commission during
1932., Although this society may hold only a few meet-
ings the word-of—mouth publicity and the wide-spread
newspaper mention of its activities has an immeasurable
effect resulting in greater attention to home music and
more and more incentive to musical education. . . . .

“The increasing dependence of the American people
upon inexpensive recreation, as a result of the economic
depression, and the vastly increased leisure which our
peOple now possess, present both a challenge and an op-
portunity to the public recreation agencies. Unqestion-
ably the public will demand of its government, local and

(Continued on. page 251)

 

Self-Supporting Craft Projects

A few suggestions for reducing
the cost of your handcroft pro-
gram to an absolute minimum.

HE MEANING of self-supporting is “to main-
T tain itself or be independent of outside help.”

As applied to playground projects this defini-
tion is seldom fulfilled in its strict sense for the
reason that all materials entering into a project
have some monetary value, and finished projects
are rarely sold. This is not because they are un-
salable through lack of merit, but because of sen-
timent a child is reluctant to part with his work.
I am therefore offering you an alternative. In
many projects, if materials at hand are assembled
by the director they can be furnished at so low a
cost as to bring to the sponsor the same results as
would a self-SUpporting craft, with the added ad-

vantage that the child may keep the result of his
handiwork.

Near me as I write this is a good looking vase,
an adaptation of those cut paper horrors called
mosaics. Its purpose was to contain olives or
pickles. On the
playground it was
painted with as-
phaltum varnish,
sprinkled with
s a n d s i f t e (1
through an old fiy
screen and embel-
lished with a red
rose cut from a
wall paper sample
book. The varn—
ish cost eight cents
a quart —— enough
for forty jars.
Next to the vase
is a burlap carry—
ing bag. Before its

By CLARENCE R. BUCK

Supervisor of Maintenance and Handcraft

' Department of Public Playgrounds and Recreation
Reading. Pennsylvania

introduction to the playground it graced the top
of a potato barrel. The bag is ten inches square
in size and dyed a deep blue. It has a white oil-
cloth Scotty appliqued on one side and is a use-
ful and attractive project. Coffee bags of very
fine burlap, large enough to supply material for
ten bags of this size can be purchased for five
cents. Dupont sells dye at five cents an ounce,
and one ounce of blue will dye fifty bags. This
bag, made by a well known commercial company,
costs 16 cents.

There is at the present time a vogue for toy
furniture. All the magazines are full of it. A
bedroom suite may be made of Clothespins and
cigar box wood. The four poster bed is made by
joining four whole pins together with four sticks
forced into the slot of the pins. Table legs are
made by sawng off the prongs of the pin at the
end of the slot. The front legs of the chairs .are

 

Courtesy Extension Department, Milwaukee Public School:

223

224 SELF-SUPPORTING CRAFT PROJECTS

made in the same manner, while the back legs
have one prong cut away leaving the other to
form the back of the chair. The dressing table
legs are made in the same way as the chair legs.
The oblong mirror from a handbag may be fas-
tened with adhesive to the back legs, and a credi-
table dresser results. Clothespins are selling at
ten cents a gross.

A five gallon oil can, found in every home
garage, would yield four attractive colonial can-
dle sconces. In all of the handcraft classes con-
ducted by the Department of Public Playgrounds
and Recreation tin is used as the medium in
metalcraft. This is one of the most appealing of
crafts and requires very simple tools. A hammer,
twenty-penny nail, a quoit—the hole in it is ideal
for drawing shallow dishes—and a block of wood
comprise the list of tools.

One of the materials for handcraft purposes is
sisal—the bristly straw-colored rope used to tie
rough packages. This makes excellent rugs, car—
rying bags, belts and moccasins. if purchased
commercially it costs 35 cents a pound, plus car—-
rying costs for the colored materials. Sisal in the
natural color at your home town wholesaler costs
ten cents a pound in 50 pound reels. \Ve made a
reel by driving two large nails into a stick of
wood one foot apart. We wound twenty-five
turns on this reel, stirred the half pound hank in
a bucket of Dupont dye, and threw it out on the
floor to dry. By this process, for ten cents or less,
a fine pair of moccasins may be made. (We use
the three basic cold water dyes in the projects
described.)

In one instance, we conducted a class which
was entirely self-supporting—a leathercraft class
for Scouts. This class confined itself to one pro—
ject—a small coin purse—and the boys literally
made a barrel full of them, and sold them at ten
cents a piece, to pay their way to camp.

Handcraft for the Unemployed

Two years ago, when it became necessary to
make provision for the unemployed who were
walking the streets, the Department of Recrea-
tion opened a number of recreation centers, some
of them rooms 20’ x 40’. During the first week
or two activities were limited almost exclusively
to card playing and the rooms were jammed.
Then we tried handcraft. A work table 3’ x 10'
sufficed for a start. The Police Department con-
tributed some confiscated stills. and with a few
simple tools the first ash trays were hammered

out. I made the first dozen. It took nearly two
days as much time was spent answering questions
and arousing interest. \Ve sold the trays to a
bridge club at 30 cents apiece. The actual passing
of money in that transaction showed the possibili-
ties of this new activity more quickly and more
surely than all of our talking had done, and dur-
ing the next week ten men were busily engaged
at work.

The men were given the entire proceeds of
their sales without any deduction for materials.
In a month we had exhausted both the material
supply and the market for ash trays, and we set-
tled down to a real business basis. First we ex-
panded our line to include really ambitious
sconces, and next we hit on a miniature mine in
the shape of city and state seals one foot in di-
ameter. For this we were obliged to buy copper
which we charged against sales. The worker was
able to earn around two dollars a day.

During the winter of 1932-33 we expanded our
activities by creating a craft shop. W'ith $100
borrowed from a local philanthropist, we bought
some of the fine home shop machinery now on the
market, and put ten men to work making toys for
Christmas. A business set-up was organized
which any commercial 'firm would be proud of,
with a sales manager and assistants, a shop fore—-
man and a general manager. The product was so
finely finished that it sold on its merit alone, and
the demand was so great that it kept twenty
workmen busy every day until the night before
Christmas.

Immediately after Christmas Easter novelties
were gotten under way. It was an easy transition
from Christmas to Easter novelties. Then came
the jig-saw puzzle craze and an order for 100,-
000 puzzles swamped the sh0p. Die—cut puzzles
are becoming too competitive and the sh0p fore-
man, seeing the beginning of the end, is preparing
to market a new paddle game. Wishing to protect
the game, we made application for copyright and
discovered that the game was fifty years old. And
that is just another reason why it is so difiicult to
discuss new craft work! But it is not important
that it shall be new, when a revival or adaptation
of an old friend will give the desired result!

NOTE: Readers of RECREATION interested in the mini-
ature furniture Mr. Buck describes will want to secure
“Cigar Box Furniture,” published ‘by the Association
which contains patterns for making seven pieces.

Price $.20.

How to Produce a Play ’

By JACK STUART KNAPP

National Recreation Association

Organizing a production
is not a "one man iob"!

all the work will never be a success. Noth-
ing is more pitiful than a flustered director
attending to all the minor details of a perform-
ance and at the same time trying to put up scen-
ery, lighting equipment, secure properties, make
up actors, and pin costumes on nervous Thespians.

A PRODUCTION in which the director tries to do

It is impossible for one person to do all of the
work connected with a production. A successful
production requires careful organization. This
organization is often called the producing staff.
A simple organization plan for the producing
staff is illustrated below:

THE DIRECTOR

l |

Stage Manager Business Manager
Pro mpter

Illusic Director
Make Up Director

 

Publicity
Director

Scenic Artist
Lighting Artist
Costume Artist
Property Man

Ushers
Ticket Sellers
Ticket Takers

Stage Hands Janitors

It is quite possible, and some times desirable,
that the same person till three or four of these
positions. For instance, the same man or woman
might be business manager, publicity director,
and music director, or costume artist, make-up
director, and lighting artist. Some of the actors
with small parts may fill the less arduous posi-
tions. The director. however, should see that
some one person occupies each position, and that
every one works. Otherwise on the night of the
performance the scenery, the furniture, or the
audience will be missing, depending upon which

If a play is to be successful many de-
tails must be arranged with the great-
est care and the help of many people
enlisted. Mr. Knapp offers here sug-
gestions for organizing a production

and outlines the responsibilities of
the various members of the producing
staff. In the September issue of the
magazine he will discuss the subiect"
uRehearsing for Stage Position."

 

responsibility the director has forgotten or
neglected.

Each member of the producing staff has cer-
tain definite duties.

The stage manager works in close cooperation
with the director. He supervises and coordinates
the work of the scenic, lighting and costume
artists and the property man. He recruits and re
hearses the stage hands who set the stage, shift
the scenery, move the furniture, and pull the cur-
tain at his direction. He manages the stage the
night of the performance, seeing that each mem-
ber of the staff is on the job, that the actors make
their entrances on time and that all details are
carried out.

The business manager makes out a budget for
the production and authorizes expenditures, pays
all bills, royalties, secures the hall for the night
of the play, has charge of the ticket sales and
ticket sellers, takers, ushers and janitors. He c0-
operates closely with the publicity director.

The publicity director secures publicity for the
production by means of posters, newspapers, an-
nouncements at meetings and publicity stunts. He
has two jobs—first, to make the community aware
of the production; second, to make them want to

see it.

The scenic artist designs and secures the scen-
ery for the production. He may have to build it,
paint it, rent it, borrow it or steal it, but he is
responsible for having it at the theatre for the
dress rehearsals and the production. (The stage
manager with his stage hands puts it up.)

(Continued on page 251)
225

Facilities
For

Good Times

UILDINGS and other facilities
B which are to be found in
parks and .playgrounds pro—
vide a setting for the activities
carried on and,help materially in creating a spirit
of friendliness which should characterize the cen—
ter. It is therefore important that buildings and
facilities shall be suitable in construction for the
purposes for which they are to be used. The more
successful they are in securing the natural effect
which “smacks” of the out-of—doors, the more
popular they are likely to prove.

The Evolution of a Shelter House

1When park construction started in 1904 in
1Watertown, New York, a horse corral was built
near the summit which was used extensively dur-
ing the days of the horse drawn vehicles. This
corral, 165 feet long, 104 feet wide, with circular
ends at a radius of 50 feet, was enclosed by a
rustic stone wall laid in Portland cement mortar
5 feet in height and 2 feet wide. ‘W hen the need
for a shelter for picnic parties became imperative,
the city manager decided the time had come to
convert the corral into a shelter house.

Piers were built on the inside parallel to and
were built on top of the old wall in such a way
as to make them conform with the rustic stone
architecture of thirty years ago which was in ex-
cellent condition. Stone arches were placed at
the main entrances and at the rear entrance lead-
ing by way of stone stairs to the wading pool at
the summit of the park. The area between the
two sets of piers at the tops is framed with heavy
timbers and roofed with wood shingles. \Vide
cornices with medium flat roof were designed and
built to fit the surrounding beauty of other build—
ings of the general landscape scheme. In order to
conform with the stone structure in places, it was

226

Buildings are not absolute-
ly essential to good times
but often they are assets.

 

necessary to go about three miles
from the park and draw the stone
from an old fence which had pre-
viously been built from stone
taken out of the gravel pit. These stones were
flat and of Unique thickness with round smooth
edges.

The work was done entirely by relief labor ex-
cept for three regular park employees, handy men
who were readily taught by the park superintend-
ent the necessary procedure for laying stone walls
of rustic type. In this process it was necessary
to use warm mortar and all of the stones were
preheated before laying. The carpentry work was
carried on under the supervision of one paid fore—
man who utilized the labor of several fairly ex—
perienced carpenters selected from the general
welfare list.

A Cabin for Year-Round Use

School clubs, church classes, Boy Scout troops,
women’s clubs, hiking clubs and unorganized
groups of people getting together for parties have
found in Beras Den Cabin at Mill Creek Park,
Youngstown, Ohio, a building which is suitable
for both winter parties and summer picnics.
About fifty pe0ple may be accommodated in it at
one time. A. E. Davies, Recreation Director,
described the building.

Constructed of special 2” by 8" ship lap siding
and rounded on the outside, the building which is
30’ long by 20’ wide, resembles a log cabin. It
has been covered with creosote rather than paint
in order to give it a weathered appearance. Three
of the side walls are entirely removable, having
been built in sections held in place with lag
screws. This permits the cabin to be thrown open
during the summer months. No furniture is pro-
vided other than picnic tables and benches.

FACILITIES FOR GOOD TIIIIES 227

A large fireplace has been built in the solid end
of the cabin and a grate for cooking is provided
which can be swung out of the fireplace when not
in use. An iron coal stove placed in the cabin
during the winter months helps to heat it. At
present kerosene lanterns are used for lighting,
but as this is not a wholly satisfactory method
other lights will probably be installed.

No charge is made for the use of the cabin,
but a deposit of $5.00 is required when keys and
a permit are obtained. No caretaker is employed
and each group is expected to leave the cabin
clean and in order for the next group. The dup-
licates of all permits are posted for the benefit of
park guards who make at least one trip to the
cabin whenever a party is in progress. These
guards collect the permits, take attendance and
make. an inspection after every party. A report
of the condition of the cabin is made to the park
office before the deposit is retUrned. Any ex-
penditure made necessary by a group's careless-
ness is deducted from its deposit. Thus far it
has been necessary only once to retain part of
the deposit, and in that case the damage was slight
and purely accidental.

Advance reservations for the use of the cabin
may be made by telephone, but whoever makes
this reservation must come in person to the park
office to post the deposit and obtain the keys.
A copy of the rules governing the use of the
cabin is given out with each permit. The cabin

may be used any day between the hours of 6:00
A. M. and 11:00 P. M.

The original plan of removing the side walls
of the cabin and throwing it open during the
summer has been modified because of the large
number of private parties wishing to reserve it
during the summer months. Instead of remov—
ing all of the side walls, merely the middle sec—
tions of each side are taken out and replaced with
sections of screen. The cabin is then operated
in the same manner as during the winter months.

Attendance records show that the cabin was
used during 1932 by 279 different grOUps—a
total of 9,087 people.

The Camp Fire Circle

Youngstown has another splendid aid to good
times in its camp fire circle which is bringing
many people out-of—doors to enjoy an evening
of fun.

In July, 1931, Volney Rogers Playground held
its first camp fire program in a corner of the
ground. The program was purely extemporane-
ous and consisted of the telling of stories by the
playground leader'and the singing of a few songs
by the group around the fire. 50 popular did
the innovation prove, however, that another camp
fire was planned for the following week. From
that time on a weekly camp fire was a regular
part of the playground program, and by the end
of the 1931 season between 150 and 200 chil-
dren were attending.

\Vith the increased attendance it became im—
possible for all of the children to see and hear
the program, so before the beginning of the
1932 season there was built in a small ravine at
one end of the playground a camp fire circle
consisting of bleacher seats arranged in a small
semi-circle. The ground in front of the circle
was well drained and leveled to provide a place
for the fire and to serve as a stage.

With the first program in the new circle, it
became evident that the circle had been made too
small. About 500 children attended; often the
fathers and mothers of the children, as well as
their old brothers and sisters, became interested
and began to attend. Gradually the camp fire
program evolved into a weekly neighborhood
night. The final camp fire of 1932 attracted about
1,200 people, about 50 per cent of them adults.

After the first camp fire program the pro—
grams were always planned in advance. StOries,
simple plays, stunts, pyramids, tumbling, Indian
club drills, group singing. solos, individual dance
numbers and occasional instrument music by
amateurs from the neighborhood, made up the
program. The playground children themselves
(lid most of the entertaining, and those who had
a part each week spent much time practising.
The camp fire lasted about one and a half hours,
starting at 7:30 P. M. and continuing until 9:00.

“We reap what we sow. Today we are in-
clined to neglect matters spiritual, and character
building efforts, and to emphasize relief only.
Cutting budgets dealing with this service is short-
sighted and socially criminal. One dollar cut to-
day will cost one thousand dollars twenty years

hence.”———Judge Jonah J. GoIdstein, in Better
Times, May 15, 1933.

Parks Which Serve the People

By PERK WHITMAN

Assistant Supervisor of Recreation

Oklahoma City, Oaklahoma

L'Rrxo RECENT YEARS of economic depres-
D sion cities have looked to their parks as
one of their chief recreational agencies and
extension programs have been in operation.
Oklahoma City’s parks, of which Donald (ior—
don is Superintendent, recorded more than a
half million visits during the twelve weeks they
were open last summer under leadership. The
cost of the recreation provided for the summer

 

228

A Park Department makes recreation
for the pe0ple its chief obiective.

was 1.3 cents per individual. Many forms of
recreation were introduced, and it was found
that thousands who took little or no part in the
daily routine of sports found relaxation and en-
joyment in the weekly or semi-weekly community
programs presented in the evenings, which con-

A Massachusetts city gives its playground
a setting of rare beauty in a local park.

PARKS WHICH SERVE THE PEOPLE 229

sisted for the most part of local playground
talent. Some of the programs included dance
recitals by schools of dancing, band concerts and
other professional or semi-professional enter-
tainments. F ew of the programs, however, were
received with more enthusiasm than the dramatic
presentatiOns planned by the playground super-
visors for the boys and girls of their immediate
communities who took part in them.

So successfully did the Park Department con—
duct its program last summer that the entire city
has become “park conscious.” The Chamber of
Commerce has seen in the parks one of the city’s
greatest assets and is standing back of the work.
Organizations of various kinds are reserving
dates for open air entertainments, tournaments
and play festivals, and the general public is sup-
porting the program.

The Park Department is making every effort
to justify this confidence. The number 'of park
playgrounds has been increased from twelve to
twenty-two, the number of supervisors more
than doubled, and a full time recreation director
secured to organize activities. Many parks have
been improved, redesigned and rebeautified dur-
ing the past year and more flowers, shrubs and
trees planted about the parks to balance the areas
used exclusively for play. One of the greatest
improvements made by the Park Department
was the construction of a beautiful Shakespear-
ian garden at one end of Memorial Park. In this
garden stands a bust of William Shakespeare
donated by the Shakespeare Club of the city. In
connection with the garden is a huge amphithea-
ter where the club plans to present several pro-
ductions during the summer.

When the new superintendent of recreation,
G. W. Danielson, assumed charge early last
April, he opened ten of the parks for play after
school hours and on Saturdays and Sundays
with play leaders in charge. More than 57,500
visits were recorded in these ten parks during
the first four weeks, and in that period a city
wide marble tournament was held. A city and state
wide play day conducted to celebrate the opening
of all the city parks on May 27th provided an
unusually extensive demonstration of recreational
activity. The Chamber of Commerce invited
every city in the state to take part in the wide
variety of activities offered at the opening, and
thousands of people poured into the city by rail
and airplane. Golf tournaments, motor and sail

boat races, horseshoe tournaments and the pre-
sentation of a number of outdoor dramatic and
musical programs supplemented the regular
schedule of individual park activities.

In preparing for the opening of the summer
playgrounds, more than 120 playground directors
attended a two day training institute at which
programs for the entire summer were outlined.
It was decided that each park will have a com—
munity program every week to balance the
sports programs. Fourteen of the twenty-six
park playgrounds are equipped with wading or
swimming pools and unique natural rock shel-
ter houses, dressing rooms and handcraft shops.
Numerous water carnivals are planned and sev-
eral city wide contests in which handcraft will
play a major part. Some of the events in pros-
pect are soap carving contests, a lantern parade
and contest, and bird house building contest. The
making of model sail boats will be taught in
handcraft shops and the boats will be used in in-
dividual park water carnivals. The sports sched-
ule-for all the parks will include city wide com-
petition in croquet, volley ball, horseshoe pitch-

ing, soft ball, baseball, bowling on the green, ten—
nis and soccer.

The Park Department’s program will be con-
ducted during the entire year and in the winter
checkers, dominoes, bowling, skating and bas-
ketball tournaments will be introduced. Early in
December there will be a city wide toy making
contest resulting in the assembling of thousands

of toys to be distributed through. the welfare
organizations.

“Happily there has come into being a great
diversity of recreative activities. Only a few
years ago when we talked of recreation a very
limited conception was held regarding that which
constituted recreational activities. We thought
particularly of athletic sports, team games and
such. Today we find to our delight that a much
broader viewpoint is held. Recreation means
many forms of expression such as camping, hik-
ing, swimming, archery, nature study, folk danc-
ing, dramatics, pageantry, music, participation in
arts and crafts. . . . Thus there is a prevasiveness
of content and in participation that is most whole-
some and propituous, as it makes room for thou-
sands where the more restricted activities have
limited participation.”—Ge0rge '1. Fisher in The
New Leisure, “Scout Executive,” April.

Where

Volunteers

Are Helping

By
EDWARD J. RONSHEIM

Recreational Director
Park Department

Anderson. Indiana

ana, had ten recreation

leaders employed on a
full time basis. The city
had year-round caretakers
at all the parks and a train-
ed force at the municipal
pool and golf course. There
were extra men who moved
from park to park doing
the repair work, and still
others were in charge of
Athletic Park. Thirty-six
hundred different children
were in attendance during
the summer, there was a
total attendance of 250,000, and 10,000 enjoyed
the weekly swimming. Our program was satis—
factory and our plan worked well.

IN 1932, ANDERSON, Indi-

The Problem

But 1933 is another year! New tax laws, ter-
rilic cuts forced by a group of taxpayers, losses
in revenue at both municipal plants, brought the
park budget down to 18 per cent of its previous
total. The same taxpayers had forced reduction
in library hours and had decreased the school
year to eight months. There was no money to
Spend. And on top of that came a Hoodiwhich
did heavy damage to half our parks.

\Vhat was to be done? Were 7, 500 children to
be dumped on the streets from May 12th to Sep—
tember 12th?

230

 

C our-ten! New Jersey Municipalities

Park officials in 0 number of communities
are turning to volunteer leaders for help.

One recreation director was appointed early in
April. There were five weeks to go and nothing
to spend except an amount less than $100 which
must cover all expenses for the rest of the season!

What to Do About It!

Years of experience in the Y. M. C. A., in
scouting as camp director and in finance cam—
paigns were reviewed. From it all come one prac-
tical suggestion—a volunteer program alone could
help. _VVe went about it.

A careful new survey was made of annual re—
ports from other cities. Costs, workers, play—
grounds, types of work, all were considered be—
fore the first effort at program building was

I'VHERE VOLUNTEERS ARE HELPING 231

made. Then “we listed those things which must
be included—two baseball leagues, tennis, horse—
shoes, the weekly free swim periods for boys
and girls, overnight trips, playground ball, hand-
craft, storytelling, athletic meets, special program
for adults, apparatus play, mass games, enough
special activities to keep us out of a rut, rope
jumping, hopscotch, jacks, music, exhibits, and
all the other activities so familiar to recreation
workers. A skeleton program was prepared, and
with it was listed the necessary leadership.

Both newspapers were interviewed—they had
always given the finest cooperation. In the emer-
gency they carried article after article, first page
copy, which detailed our plight without any ef—
fort at “fooling the public.” we were “broke”
and admitted it! We knew what to do but could
not do it without help, and said so. There were
7,500 children with 10,000,000 play hours. How
would they use them?

The ball was set rolling.

Securing Volunteers

The Central Council of Parent-Teacher Asso-
ciations approved our plan for volunteers. The
city has fifteen schools. Six are so located that
they cannot be of much help to our parks which
are at the edge of the city. We appeared before
various groups representing the nine other schools
and told our story. Each named a chairman to
whom we related our needs and the way in which
we hoped to meet them. Nine energetic women
started lining up workers who must pass two
tests—ability and loyalty.

By that time two weeks had passed and vaca-
tion was only two weeks away. We needed men.
The boys themselves were given the responsibility
of finding managers for baseball teams. In thir-
teen cases they made good. A local organization
furnished two veterans of the garrie to act as
umpires at our baseball games—not an easy as—
signment in our leagues, but it is now being done
by volunteers. The Scouts volunteered to help
in handcraft and hiking, and the Y. M. C. A.
joined us at track meets, swimming and play-
ground ball. Other groups accepted responsi-
bility for storytelling.

Another week had gone and we still had to
meet our workers, complete our program and
secure equipment and small articles for awards
where they were to be used. Publicity continued
every day. Our radio station, WHBU, not only
gave publicity but accepted the task of putting

three city-wide contests on the air as an award
for winners at the various parks. A theater gave
us a thousand tickets. One factory helped with
baseballs, while another found 400 excellent sub-
stitutes for Indian clubs to be used in games. A
third plant discovered additional SUpplies for our
use.
As the days passed night work made possible
the shaping of the program until every day of the
entire summer was scheduled on paper. The plan
for using workers was never charted in black and
white but was allowed to develop without the
strain of being translated from an office dream to
a park reality! And while other details were
being worked out a continual check up was made
on the corps of workers and the chairmen were
not allowed to forget their responsibility.

Soon the time arrived for the first test. The
volunteers were called together to meet the rec-
reation director. During the preceding ten days
one of the papers had been running two or three
games each day—“A Game Each Day for Park
Play” was their caption. And so when we met
with the volunteers they were prepared. A typi-
cal afternoon program was outlined, games were
demonstrated and our hopes for the summer were
presented. Then questions and suggestions were
in order. The chairmen furnished us with a list
of workers and the schedules under which they
would work.

At Edgewater, one of our most important
parks, a teacher trained in park work took charge,
having volunteered full time service for the sum-
mer. At Riley, another important center, three
teachers of real ability shared a full time pro-
gram. At Stanton, the third of our large parks,
its was planned that our women volunteers would
take a week at a time, the first four and most dif—
ficult being assigned to leaders formerly in the
paid service of the park department. Other cen-
ters used two women each day, with each pair re—
peating every other week. Each worker was to
give her time as best she could. A supervisor of
girls’ activities offered her services for the
summer.

Activities Begin
And now school is over and the program goes
into operation. The volunteers have not yet been
called on. We have given them two weeks to

become acquainted with working tools, to drop
in to see what goes on, to meet the children and

( Continued on page 252)

Mobilizing
the
Choral Forces

of the
Community

vocal music in existing choral organizations,

and in the numerous individuals who have had
training and musical experience in schools and
colleges. The fact that in the great majority of
instances it is largely or wholly neglected is a
distinct challenge to everyone concerned. with
music education. Music is one of the great com-
mon denominators in civic life, and those respon-
sible for its furtherance should see to it that the
latent forces and untapped sources of musical
talent are utilized; that singing groups and indi-
viduals, old and young, who have in various fields
developed an interest in singing, are mobilized
and organized to sing some of the great master—
pieces of choral literature.

Three highly desirable objects are attained by
such a procedure. First, those who participate
never fail to continue to appreciate more keenly
the finest of music, and find keen satisfaction and
an emotional outlet in the making of music. Sec-
ond, the production of a master piece by a great
chorus of trained singers always produces a thrill
in the lives of those in the audience, who in turn
becOme more appreciative of music because it is
produced by persons of their acquaintance. Third,
continued working in rehearsal on these master
compositions simply for the joy of singing with
others and producing great music, without
thought of compensation, creates an atmosphere
in the community that is of inestimable value.

Desirable as these ends are, it must be ad-
mitted that their attainment is difficult. Several

232

IN EVERY town and city there is a reservoir of

 

things are needed to accomplish them. First of
all, is the right motivation—which must spring
from a broad vision of a true community project.
Here is indicated one of the primary requirements
-—-—a factor without which no community enter—
prise of a musical nature can possibly be success-
ful—that is, the inspiration and guidance of some
one with proven musical ability, with musical
vision that reaches beyond the borders of sect and
creed, with a devotion to musical ideals that is
utterly selfless, and with a zeal for work in the
accomplishment of the goal desired that is little
short of fanatical. This man or woman must be
the motivating force, but he or she must never
appear as such to the public. He or she must
recognize the universality of music and must be
willing to sink all individual aggrandizement in
the bottomless pit of the good of the whole. For
this type of musical leadership the community
may well look to the music staff of the schools
or colleges.

Kalamazoo’s Plan

But more than a leader is needed.
There must be a definite, sound plan and
the means for carying it out. Perhaps a
review of a recently perfected organi-
zation, and a view of the machinery
used in its erection, in Kalamazoo, will
be helpful to others striving to make
vocal music a community enterprise.
First, conferences were held with all
directors of regularly organized choral

The author <
published in
the Music SH;
ber of the s!
Gazette whicl'
ont part in tl
described th.
Patton's refel

Through Chal

ness Manage:

L underwritten

community ac
paper enterpr

um"

Co‘lG‘G

1
MOBILIZING THE CHORAL FORCES OF THE COALW 233

 

'he first presentation of the Choral Club, composed of
hurch choirs and similar groups, was “The Messiah.”

groups to obtain their reaction to the proposition
of a community presentation of The Messiah.
\Vhen that' was found favorable, the next vital
step was taken—that of securing a sponsor. In a
community enterprise such as this the sponsor
must be absolutely non-partisan, in the larger
sense of the word. In Kalamazoo it was felt that
the newspaper would be the best sponsor possible.
No individual, no choir, no club can aSSUme that
role successfully. Personal or group gain or ad-
vancement must be divorced absolutely from the
enterprise. The responsibility was assumed by
The Kalamazoo Gazette, which assmed the en—
terprise neutral and effective sponsorship.

The sponsor assmed, the next' step was that of
enlisting the support of civic leaders who were
interested in the general promotion of large musi—
cal activities. This support is necesary in work-
ing out the multifarious details that always at-
tend a large community project. Then
the call went out, from the sponsor, of

cle, originally
iber issue of
nal, is a mem-
3 Kalamazoo
more import-
ity enterprise
:ated in Mr.
I sponsorship.
eenway, busi-
e proiect was
ner, but as a
'thon a news-

course, to a small group of leaders, in-
cluding the directors of the choral
groups, representing the various inter-
ests, to select a general executive. This
executive must be imbued with the same
idea] of selfless service in the interest of
musical advancement as animates the
originator of the project. In Kalamazoo
a happy combination of executive and
musician was found in one of our banks.

The essentials-broad vision,
a leader, a sound plan and

the means of carrying it out,

and a non-partisan sponsor.

By RALPH A. PATTON

Kalamazoo, Michigan

Choral groups represented by the various
directors furnished the nucleus of the chorus.
Then the sponsor issued a call for all individuals
who had sung The Messiah, or who felt them-
selves qualified to sing it, to register with sponsor
as prospective members of the civic chorus. A
coupon was printed in The Gazette for the ap-
plicant to fill out. It was emphasized that the en-
terprise was absolutely non-sectarian and non-
creedal, that connections or politics made no dif-
ference. The sole purpose was to present The
Messiah, using every available bit of vocal talent
the city possessed.

The cards that were obtained were handed to
a registration committee—all committees were
formed from the musical directors—for allotment
to some one of the organized choral groups for
preliminary rehearsals. Directors gave a certain
portion of their weekly rehearsal time to practice
on Zlfessiah choruses, after a libretto committee
had decided on the cuts to be made and the inter-
pretation to be used. When the preliminary re—
hearsals had accomplished their purpose of famil-
iarizing the singers with the choruses, a massed
rehearsal was held. At this the various directors
were assigned to listen to certain portions of the
chorus in order to detect weak points not dis-
cernible to the director. These were passed on to
the other directors, who ironed them out in subse-
quent group rehearsals. Later massed rehearsals
coordinated the whole.

Meanwhile the matter of a conductor was being
discussed. The committee on conductor and solo-
ists considered the matter from all angles. It

234 MOBILIZING THE CHORAL FORCES OF THE COMMUNITY

viewed the organization as a permanent one in
which the presentation of The Messiah and future
projects as well should be considered in establish-
ing a precedent. It emphasized the point that the
club must retain its identity as a civic institution,
representing equally and impartially all musical
organizations, schools and churches of the city.
It laid down the principle that the director should
be a person of outstanding ability and unques-
tioned competence. The desirability of retaining
a guest conductor of high reputation was con-
sidered both from the standpoint of inspiration
to the singers and of the publicity obtained. Of
equal importance, the committee felt, was the
recognition due local musicians who possessed the
necessary qualifications for directing a work as
exacting as The Messiah, and who would be will-
ing to serve.

The committee recommended as an established
policy—and this was ad0pted-——that the director-
ship should be vested in a guest conductor and a
local associate conductor, the two to make mutu-
ally agreeable arrangements for collaboration in
rehearsals and performances. It also advised that
a wholly new committee be chosen each year to
name the guest and associate conductors, the lat-
ter to be chosen from among resident directors
possessing the necessary qualifications. It urged
that an accompanist representing some other or-
ganization than that with which the associate
conductor is affiliated should be chosen.

These recommendations, carefully followed in
the light of an absolutely disinterested attitude on
the part of every director on the board, resulted
in the deve10pment of a chorus that was drawn
from every section of the city, every creed and

every race.

Members of the chorus were required to be
present at mass rehearsals, and their admittance
was gained and their presence assured by use of a
card with detachable coupon, punched at each re—
hearsal. Failure to appear without excuse resulted
in forfeiture of the seat. More than 400 singers
were faithful throughout the project, and at the
end voted unanimously to make the organization

a permanent one.

It Was decided to make the project self-sup-
porting, and an admission charge of 35 cents was
made. A small block of seats was reserved for
those willing to pay a premium for the privilege.
Two performances were given, with the house
sold out both evenings.

The problem of accompaniment was solved 1h
Kalamazoo by the presence of our local symphony
orchestra from which a group was drawn to give
the proper instrumental background. While there
were some soloists capable of handling the score,
it was thought best to bring in soloists from out-
side. This was for two purposes-——to assure a
finished and authoritative interpretation of all the
matchless solo numbers, and to avoid any sem-
blance of partisanship or favoritism in selecting
local talent.

It cannot be emphasized too strongly that in all
dealings the most rigid attitude of impartiality
must be observed. That plane of operation, once
established and made to permeate the entire .
economy of the project, is one of the best guar—
antors of success. Coupled with that, as was in-
dicated earlier, must be a wholly unselfish devo-
tion to the ideal of giving everyone involved the
opportunity to eXpress in music the beauty that
lies in his own soul, with no thought of any ad-
vancement save which comes through the blessing
of song in the enrichment of the life of the singer.

That Way lies success and a broader, deeper,
richer, more spiritual community life.

“Art never meant as much to me as it does to-
day. It has proven to me, as it has to numbers of
others—but particularly to me because I am an
artist-——that the main thing in life is one’s art or
one’s profession. That is one thing that cannot
be taken away from you. If you are faithful to
it, it will sustain you in all trouble. It requires
only that the artist—or the man-——be sincere and
faithful and enthusiastic.

“The true artist will show himself now. So
many of them become discouraged by things that
are exterior to their art, not connected with it.
When they see the response is less, that there are
fewer persons listening to them, the house before
them half empty, they falter. These are the ma-
terial things, and such a sad effect on the artist
shows that he is not a true artist. The real artist
cannot be discouraged.

“It is a joy to me always to give happiness to
people by playing for them the music of great
masters. No matter in what part of the world I
play, it is always a joy. But here—at home—the
joy is greater.”-——Mischa Elman, in the New

York 5 1m, January 20th, 1933.

Youth

Turns
Natureward

By
WILLIAM G. VINAL

Western Reserve University

Cleveland, Ohio

5 . M “if

HE YOUTH movement in Germany is to the
T open road and castles. In America it is to

the trail and cabins. The forestry Army
is more than a means of escaping the maelstrom
into which this old world has plunged itself. It
is a move toward freedom. It is getting out into
the open country for inspiration and a new point
of view. It is a revolt against the conventionalities
of life. It is a search for the realities of life, for
actual experience with the laws of nature, for in-
formation first hand, and for dependable facts.
The youth movement is “a philosophy of natural
life.”

It is not surprising that the youth of America
are turning their faces toward our nationally—
owned wonderlands. The utilization of our na-
tional forests and parks as retreats from heat and
(lust has long been in vogue, and the using of
them to escape college textbooks and the academic
is gaining favor in universities. Now along come
the nature dilettanti declaring that instead of go-
ing to the nation’s capitol this year that they are
going to explore a national park of the west.
Whatever their future they will forever recall the
wonderful views seen during the alpine days in
the Rockies or how they went up the zigzag trail
singing the Alma Mater.

The kind of teaching required on a trail trip is
of the easiest kind. The mountain goat, the flower

Courtesy California Parent-Teacher Association

 

gardens above timber line, and the lofty spires of
the Englemann Spruce or the Douglas Fir hold
interest against all comers. Some day teaching
the wilderness habit will be required. Teachers
will then wonder how they taught indoors so long.
To assist these teachers in their adventure Uncle
Sam has a corps of ranger naturalists who are
amply qualified to take full charge as soon as the
party enters the park.

As you roll into the Glacier Park land for ex—
ample, you pass quickly from the “no tree” land
of the prairies to one of the grandest forest areas
of the world. If you leave the Empire Builder at
the Glacier Park Station—as you probably will—
you will land at a fir-log station. The Blackfeet
Indians will be there to welcome you and if you
have made arrangements a genial ranger—natur—
alist will step up and great you with a “Howdy.”

You will rapidly pass to the Glacier Park Hotel
with its architecture of giant firs. Your eyes will
sweep from the forty five foot fir columns to
woodsy lamp stands and drinking fountains. If
time permits you can play a game of seeing who
can list the greatest number of rustic furnishings
made from trees. All this is but a fore—runner of
trees to come.

You leave the Glacier Park Hotel at the eastern
gateway of the park and are whisked by bus past

235

236 YOUTH TURNS NATUREW'ARD

mountain crags, dashing waters, and clear lakes,
to the land of eternal snow. You leave the low-
lands and the depression for a new world. Nestled
in the valleys will be groves of quaking aspen
quivering in the brilliant sun'shine. In the Two
Medicine country you will see the charred re-
mains of a forest fire—a mute testimony to care—
lessness. Late that afternoon you will get a whiff
of the evergreen scented forests of the Rockies—
forests as they were when the whole continent was
wild. The soil was plowed for the forests by the
glaciers, the relics of which you will spy nestled
in the ampitheatres high up toward the peaks.
You will rejoice that you have at last seen a pure
wilderness which has escaped both fire and ax.

Walking Through Primeval Forests

And perhaps one of the most encouraging
-things will be the simple truth-although not a
widely advertised fact—that you will need to
know only a dozen conifers to walk through this
primeval forest with as much bravado as the more-
than—average naturalist! What’s more—these will
be the very evergreens that you have heard about
all your life. You didn’t suspect it was that easy,
did you? You could easily learn the list between
stations enroute. In fact, I believe that the Park
Naturalist would send you samples to feel of, to
smell of, and to gaze at to your heart’s content
while traveling parkward.

Here’s the list for all Wandervogel, Natur-
freunde (Nature friends), or whatever name you
have chosen for your party.

Simple Key for lndentifying the Conifers of
Glacier National Park

Leaves needles, 1.5 inches or more in length, in clusters.
Needles in 5’s, 4 inches or less long, white pines.
Cones 6-8 inches, western slope to 6000 ft.. .Mountain

Pine.

Cones 2-3 inches, eastern slope to 7,000 ft.. .Limber
Pine.

Cones 1.5—3 inches, near timber line....\Vhite Bark
Pine.

Needles in 3’s, cones and needles 4-10 inches, Lake
McDonald; \Vestern Yellow Pine.

Needles in 2’s, cones 1.5 in-
ches, east slope to 6000 ft.
Lodgepole Pine.

Needles in clusters of 12-40,
cones 1.5 inches, western
slope, \Vestern Larch.

Leaves needles, 1.5 inches or
less in length, not in clus-

Needles stalked, appear op-
posite, cones .75-1.25 in-
ches,..Western Hemlock.

"A day well spent in the mountains is like
some great symphony. Andante, andantissimo
sometimes, is the first movement—the grim,
sickening plod up the moraine.
gotten when the blue light of dawn flickers
over the hard, clean snow.
ters. ushered in, as it were, very gently on the
lesser wind instruments, houtboys and flutes,
remote but melodious and infinitely hopeful,
caught by the violins in the growing light."

Needles not stalked, cones pedulous, trident scales,
2-4.5 in.....Douglas Fir.

Needles blunt, up—turning, cones upright, 2-2.5 inches,
Alpine Fir.

Needles 4—angled, sharp pointed, twigs smooth, cones
2-3.5 inches. .White Spruce.

Needles 4-angled, sharp pointed, twigs rough, cones
1-3 inches. . Englemann Spruce.

Needles awl-shaped, appear whorled, cone blue “berry,”
.25 inches..]uniper.

Needles soft, shady ravines, cone a red “berry,” .5
inches. . Yew.

Leaves scale, V3 inches long, fern—like.

Scales make a flat spray, Huted trunks, moist land,
cones .5 in...Arbor Vitae.

Scales make a flat spray, prostrate shrub, open spaces,
Creeping Cedar.

It won’t be long before you will arrive at a
Swiss Chalet Village, replicas of log cabins which
have stood in the Alps for years. These hostleries
are tucked away high up some mountain valley.
You may chose to stay at Two Medicine, or Many
Glacier, or if you like a boat ride it may be Going-
to-the—Sun. Wherever you are there will be a
clear deep mountain lake to mirror the peaks, and
as the darkness comes out of the evergreens you
will seek reveries about the camp fire and plan
for a timber-line hike for the next morning with
the Ranger-naturalist. This guide service is free
as Uncle Sam is most anxious for you to benefit
from his outdoor school room.

A Day’s Hike

Can you visualize a day’s hike which will be
like walking from Mexico to Alaska? What a
tree trip it will be! You will leave the cotton-
woods in Mexico—pardon me, I mean on the
plains—you will say good—bye to the Mountain
Maple and Mountain Ash' and the alders as the
trail dives into the pine—scented forest. You may
be surprised to see the self-same snowberry that
grows in your backyard and no doubt but you will
quizz the guide about the service berry, the Can-
ada Buffalo berry, and the red berried elder as
the pangs of hunger begin to send messages.
\Vhat a thrill it will be to greet the Englemann
Spruce and Alpine Fir by
name! And you will re-
cognize th e Lodgepole
Pine which was so im-
portant to the migrating
Indian.

When you pass from
the Canadian to the Hud-
sonian zone you will wish
that you had been more

But how for-

The new motif is

YOUTH TURNS NATUREWARD 237

saving of your films as the open areas, with their
rock slides and snow banks with frames of
dwarfed wind-beaten trees, will present the most
glorious views that have been the privilege of any
man to behold. You will even forget that it is a
hunger march as you scramble over one more
grassy meadow that you may look down on the
wooded slopes that reach far below to the lake
or which extend in the distance to the Kootenai
or to Red Eagle or to Logan Pass.

What a thrill goes up and down your spine
when you reach timber line. You throw yourself
on a rock pile to gaze at peaks, glacial snow fields
and barren cliffs. Perhaps you sit on a mat of
dwarf willows to eat your well—earned lunch. The
guide assures you that the spring water is safe
and you drink again and again. You feel like a
graduated Coureur de Bois as you hobnob with
the hardy guide. Perhaps in your mind’s eye you
,can see Champlain or David Thompson, a fur
trader of the Northwest Company. The Indians
called Thompson the “Man—Who—Looks-at-the-
Stars,” and perhaps you, too, would not resent
being dubbed the One—\Vho—Appreciates-a-Good
View. You are in a mood to enjoy a story about
the Indian girl, Sacajawea, who over a hundred
years ago showed Lewis and Clark the way
through this same wilderness. You will un-
doubtedly plea for one more story as the leader
announces that you have just an hour to explore

the Arctic before you dive into the darkening'

evergreens to get back to the chalet.

We will not take time to inspect the rock gar-
dens for that will be our objective on the next
trip. We will examine this dwarfed white-barked
pine. It does not grow toward the sky, as it did
in the 6000 foot zone, but here it is a tree lawn
and whenever it dares to put forth an upright
branch the wind cuts it off like a lawn mower.
And perhaps the erect cones on the l'II' will catch
your eye and you hasten over to feel the purple-
like candles that glisten in the sun. And you will
not want to miss the bearberry or kinikinic of the
Blackfeet. And you discover all kinds of fantastic
trees hiding behind rocks and ledges and perhaps
you steal the last five minutes to basque in the
fading rays of the sun which has already set in
some parts of the mountains.

The afternoon tints which flush the red sand-
stone are turning gray at last. A chill hastens
you below timber line. Your trip has been to a
place of real beauty and substance. You try to
tie this alpine experience to some place. you have

read about but your thoughts are interrupted by
the ranger pointing out a Douglas fir. He tells
you that it stands second in size, only being sur-
passed by the redwoods. It is neither fir, pine,
nor hemlock. It is a tree all by itself and was
named after David Douglas, a Scotch botanist.
Your trip down is much quicker and you find
yourself “passing in review.” This is an Engle-
mann spruce. This is the Alpine fir. And you
murmur the tree friends until you meet the aspens
coming up the valleys to meet you and to remind
you of the chalets and the hot meal that waits
to satisfy your wild hunger.

Following the meal you sit before the fire and
revel in philosophy. The mountain air does that
to one. Perhaps you hark back to days of ex-
ploring. Instead of trading fur and exchanging
presents you swap yarns with a horse guide or
you listen to a forester tell about the old days.
You may write a letter home keeping it in diary
form that you may again relive the experiences
of a mountaineer. When the embers have burned
low the ranger naturalist may invite you to a
lantern talk where he shows you colored pictures
of the trees of Glacier National Park.

In any case, from this time on your imagina—
tion will often be employed about the mountains
and the forests that you have seen. You will find
yourself trying to realize the wonderful things
that you have learned about the oldest living in-
habitants of the continent and you will constantly
recall the picture of America as she was. You will
use the day’s experience when your thoughts are
the highest and in the twilight hours when
haunted by ideals. Whenever you get philosophi-
cal your mind will turn back to the mountains.
And this is as it should be, for you have taken
time to endow your being, to fire your imagina-
tion with the spirit of the mountains and the
trees.

Now if going to a national park is just plain
conjecture you still have your own metropolitan
parks and village wild spots. You have your home
town trees, pageantry of flowers, and wild animals.
You have a vista that is less distant than a good-
sized hike. You know old-timers who will gladly
help you to see and hear. They will reminisce
with you at a camp fire. And you will not be
building air castles. You will be laying bricks of
experiences for travel days to come. And you
can be certain of this—if you cannot enjoy the
nature offerings of your own bailiwick you will

(Coutz'mwd on page 252)

 

Ping Pong Tables

of Concrete

ceedingly popular and satisfactory on the

playgrounds of Los Angeles, California.
Set up out-of—doors and made to suffer all the
abuse that can be heaped upon them by enthusi-
astic ping pong “fans,” they are proving them-
selves equal to the test and are standing up re-
markably well.

The tables are made in the shop of the De—
partment of Playground and Recreation in the
spare time of the cement hnisher who, when he
has a free day, spends it making up one of these
tables. The Department has a very substantial set
of forms which is used over and over again. The
cement finisher and a laborer spend a morning
casting the table, and the afternoon is devoted by
the cement worker to finishing and applying the
topping and getting the steel in readiness for the
next table.

238

CONCRETE ping pong tables are proving ex-

Los Angeles has found the way to build outdoor
ping pong tables which will "stand punishment."

By DAVID BERNIKER

Supervisor of Construction and Maintenance
Los Angeles Department of Playground and Recreation

When the table is ready for installing it is
loaded into a truck at the shop and a day’s time
is required by the cement hnisher and the laborer
to set it up. The legs are set in the ground ap-
proximately to grade. The two men can readily
lift the slabs from the truck and set them on the

legs.

To date twenty-hve of these tables have been
installed, with thirty more planned for the future.
The cost of a table, completely installed, is esti-
mated at $25. Play on these concrete tables is so
fast that during a recent state-wide ping pong
tournament several boys who had played on the
tables made a remarkable showing.

NOTE: The Department of Playground and Recrea-
tion has supplied the National Recreation Association
with a detailed drawing of the table which the Associa-
tion will be glad to loan to anyone desiring it.

The Tradition of Puritanical New England

Professor G r e e n w 00 d

speaks of amusements as
scorned and forbidden in the
Colonial period and of the de-
velopment of recreation and
amusements in New England
being retarded until the late
seventeenth and early eigh-
teenth centuries, though he
considerably mitigates his
statement by pointing out that
drinking and gambling were not unknown, that
there were shooting and hunting parties for ex-
terminating wolves and bears, ice skating and ice
boating and sleighing, quilting parties and husk—
ing bees with kissing accompaniment—all of them
in New England.

There will always be some difference of opin-
ion in these matters, and the tradition of puri-
tanical New England has got so firm a footing
that the reality has been pretty much forgotten
and will, I suppose, never be generally believed.
The following citations may throw some light
upon the matter.

A Few Citations

In the “Wonderworking Providence in New
England,” published in 1654, it is stated that “the
hideous thickets of this place (Boston) were such
that wolfes and beares nursed 11p their young
from the eyes of all beholders in those very places
where the streets are full of girles and boys
sporting up and downe with a continuous con—
course of pe0ple”---the Puritans thus fulfilling
the happy prophecy of Zachariah that “the streets
of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing
in the streets thereof.” There are now more au-
tomobiles in Boston than there were in Jerusalem
in Zachariah’s time, but Boston’s streets are still
the playgrounds for many thousands of her
children.

Special provision for play was, however, not
neglected. Boston, in 1634, bought William
Blackstone’s cow pasture for thirty shillings, and
although it was not called a playground and was

IN HIS INTERESTING article

In the April issue of Recreation there
appeared an article by Edward D.
Greenwood entitled "Recreations and
Amusements of the Colonial Period"
in which mention was made of the re-
creations of New England in its early
years. Joseph Lee, President of the
National Recreation Association, has
asked permission to comment on this
article, and in doing so has given some
additional information which will in-
terest our readers.

bought, partly at least, as a
training ground for the militia,
the successful plea of the Bos—
ton boys to General Gage that
his soldiers should not keep
'them from playing football
there (doubtless that they, the
soldiers, might monopolize it
for soccer) indicates some-
thing of its use. And the Bos--
ton boys have so used it ever
since. Personally I have
skated and coasted and played football there and
fallen in while running tittledies on the Frog
Pond. My children have played there, and my
grandchildren, if they live in Boston, will doubt-
less do the same, like the other descendants of the
Puritans from the beginning.

Indeed every town founded by the Puritans of
the Bay Colony seems to have had its Common, a
continuation of the old Village Green of England
with its tradition of games and sports, just as
many of them still have their bandstand and their
trotting course.

William Wells Newell, in his “Games and
Songs of American Children,” published by Har—
per & Brothers, 1883, says:

“A curious inquirer who should set about form-
ing a collection of these rhymes, would naturally
look for differences in the tradition of different
parts of the Union, would desire to contrast the
characteristic amusements of children in the
North and in the South, descendants of Puritan
and Quaker. In this he would find his expecta-
tions disappointed. . . . . This lore belongs, in the
main, to the day before such distinctions came
into existence; it has been maintained with equal
pertinacity, and with small variations, from Can—
ada to the Gulf. Even in districts distinguished
by severity of moral doctrines, it does not appear
that any attempt was made to interfere with the
liberty of youth. Nowhere have the old sports
(often, it is true, in crude rustic forms) been
more generally maintained than in localities

(Continued on page 253)
239

 

The annual bicycle race held in the early spring
is one of the most colorful events of the season.

Outdoor Recreation the Year Round

public playgrounds or provision

for community recreation for
either its.children or adults. At the close of 1931,
the records showed that the total attendance for
all the activities for the first year of supervised
operation was 103,926. The fact that the records
for the first four months of this year report an
attendance of 81,656 seems definite proof of the
need for the recreation program that has been
ad0pted.

Realizing the need of community playgrounds,
the Community Service Committee of the “’0-
man’s Club attempted in 19:33 to open the first
playground on a plot of ground which presumably
had been set aside by the city for that purpose.
Owing to a technical point in the legality of the
use of the plot as a playground, the matter was
dropped temporarily. But these interested citi-
zens and others, especially Parent-Teacher mem-
bers, retained their plans and hopes ,and never lost
an opportunity to further their ideals.

I N 1923, Tucson, Arizona, had no

The Foundation Is Laid

In 1927, the local Council of Parents and
Teachers conducted a playground “booster” meet-

240

By RUTH A. BONDY

Tucson, Arizona

ing at which several interested citi-
zens were asked to present their
ideas on a playground development.
The meeting resulted in the adoption of resolu-
tions to present to the City Council asking that
tennis courts be opened in a park across from the
high school. Action was taken and three public
tennis courts, the first in the city, were opened.
One step forward had been taken in Tucson’s
recreation program. .

At the same time the Mayor appointed five
representative citizens as members of a body to
be known as the Playground Commission and to
function as a sub-committee of the Park Board
of the City Council. Immediately petitions were
drawn asking for a bond issue of $100,000 to

_ provide funds for developing the recreation pro-

ject. \Vith the coming of the next city election,
the bonds were favorably voted upon. By previ-
ous agreement $40,000 was given to the Park
Board for park beautification and $60,000 to the
Playground Commission for playgrOUnd devel—
opment. Part of the playground appropriation
was spent on installing two more tennis courts,
in providing the original three courts with lights
for night playing, in constructing three wading

OUTDOOR RECREATION THE YEAR ROUND 241

pools and a modern swimming pool, and in in-
stalling swings, several Jungle Gyms and carry-
alls.

Coincident with the bond issue a new city
charter made provision for the Playground Com-
mission to function as a separate board with full
authority to manage its own affairs, entirely sep—
arate from the Park Board. Another forward
step came when the City Conncil and the Public
School Board agreed to sponsor a cooPerative
recreation program. A budget of $5,000 a year
was decided upon to cover the expenses of the
newly planned recreation department, the ex-
penses to be met jointly by the city and the
schools. The Playground Commission was to
have the responsibility for handling the budget.

Activities Begin

With this step, the actual program of activities
was opened in December, 1930, with Mr. George
0. Hedger as recreation
director. In addition to
the facilities already sup-
plied, a night baseball
field was installed adja-
cent to the high school,
an additional pool was
built, basketball c o u r t s
were provided and what-
ever athletic goods neces-
sary to the promotion of
the work were purchased.

A factor in Tucson which must be considered
is the large percentage of Mexican population,
many of whom live in quarters unusually con-
gested. It has been deemed wise to plan a pro-
gram along the line of serving the largest num-
ber of people during their leisure hours. This
has been accomplished by spreading the budget
out as thinly as possible so as to provide recrea—
tion areas in every needed district, rather than to
concentrate with perhaps more elaborate equip-
ment in only one or two places. Activities are
carried on in two community centers, one public
playground, two parks and two athletic fields,
as well as in all the school playgrounds. Fifteen
assistants aid the recreation director in the super-
vision of the playgrounds and community centers.

The largest of the projects is carried on in
a commUnity center in one of the older parts of
the city. It is here that the new municipal swim-
ming pool has been built. The pool, which

nicipal service.

The development of a program of year-round
recreation in a city which has never before had
such a program is always a matter of interest.
Tucson, Arizona, one of the newest cities to be
added to the roster of communities conduct-
ing work the entire year, tells how the work
started, of difficulties overcome and successes
attained. There are many suggestions in this
story of step-by-step progression for cities
which have not yet developed this vital mu-

measures 40’ by 120’, is graduated from six
inches to nine feet in depth, and is equipped with
the latest designed filtering system. The dressing
rooms, showers and sanitary checking system
are all planned in the most modern manner.

The pool was first opened on May 2, 1931, and
last summer had a registered attendance of 13,492.
Life—guards were in constant attendance and op-
portunities were provided for swimming lessons.
This center also has baseball diamonds, a basket-‘
ball court‘ and two tennis courts, a JUngle Gym,
a carry-all and an exceptionally large wading
pool. Last summer all the wading pools were
open five hours a day under leadership and pro-
vided activity for children nine years of age and
under. Last year there was an attendance of
11,796 registered in the four wading pools
throughout the city.

Another section known as Oury Park is in one
of the congested Mexican districts. More base-
ball diamonds, basketball
couns, two of the wading
pools and several pieces
of playground equipment
make this a much needed
comm11nity center which
is patronized daily
throughout the entire year
by practically everyone in
the neighborhood. In ad—
dition, the city recently
t u r n e (1 over the small
building, located in the park to the local Y.W.C.A.
for the purpose of sponsoring a community
house. Here the Mexican mothers are being
taught' English, sewing and cooking; storytelling
hours are being conducted for the children, and
a library service has been established which is
doing much constructive good and filling a long
felt want.

In another Mexican district the Carillo Play-
ground has been developed around a most inter-
esting history. The grounds are surrounded by
a grove of large stately trees, a scarcity in this
desert country, and in the days of the saloon
harbored one of the city’s principal beer gardens.
Today, as a playground, it has a weekly attend—
ance of from 800 to 1,100 children in regis-
tered classes in hand work, wood carving and
sewing which are conducted winter and summer,

as well as in baseball, basketball and volley
ball games.

242 O U TDO 0 R RE C 'REA T I O.\' TH E YE A R R O (IND

in a less congested part of the city one of the
wading pools and some of the playground equip-
ment have been placed in a beautiful park square.
Here the children may play in the picturesque
enclosure formed by the many old and large
oleander trees which blossom forth in the spring
with a profusion of red, white and pink flowers.
The ever green pepper trees and stately palms

afford an equally fine shelter during the other
months.

A Varied Program

The three tennis courts equipped with lights
across from the high school are a center of con-
tinuous activity, summer and winter, day and
night. A mid-summer, city-wide tennis tourna-
ment was conducted
last year for both
adults and juniors,
in which 187 players
took part. The tour-
nament this year
was started on Feb—
ruary 14th. It was
divided into six sec-
tions, a division for
girls, one for junior
women and one for
senior women and
three similar divi-
sions for boys and
men. One hundred
and thirteen players
have participated in
this second tourna-
ment. Silver loving
cups and gold. silver
and bronze medals
were awarded the
winners of the vari—
ous divisions in both
contests.

Another feature
of last summer’s
program was a daily
supervised vacation
school held in an
“open air” school
building in one of
the better residential
districts. Arrange—
ments were made to

Y:

I"

An outdoor recreation scene in Minneapolis,
long an advocate of year-round recreation

 

Courtesy Minneapolis Board of Park (‘ommiuioners

bring children there from the other districts.
Here a program of handicraft and play was con-
ducted. An attendance of almost 2,000 boys and
girls was registered during this vacation period.
The supervisors for this project were paid out of
the regular fund while the necessary equipment
was purchased through the Parent—Teacher Asso—
ciation in that district. During the school year,
part—time playground directors are also provided
on the school playgrounds where a program of
games, contests and athletic events for both boys
and girls is carried on.

The annual bicycle tournament for boys is a
colorful event held in the early spring. A parade
through the downtown section of gaily decorated
bicycles is held. Short speed events and a six-
mile marathon race
complete the pro—
gram. Prizes are
awarded for the best
decorated bicycles
and for the winners
in the races.

The huge arc lights
on the athletic field
adjacent to the high
school have increas—
ed night baseball.
Teams of young men
and older men rep-

resenting various
business houses and
industrial concerns

have been organized.
At the present time
35 different teams
are in the league
and games are play-
ed five nights a
week, summer and
winter. These night
games have proven
very popular and are
witnessed by thou-
sands of spectators
throughout the year.
They are open to the
public without any
charge. In addition,
a city baseball league
has been organized
(Continued on page 253)

Volunteer Leadership

HE PRESENT DAY needs of
T program building require

not only the professional
worker but the volunteer leader
who is ever in demand, especially
in settlement administration.

Attendance records show that because of un-
employment and the resulting increase in the num-
ber of people coming together for recreational
and cultural activities, there is a growing demand
for the expansion of programs. This means more
leadership. \Vith reduced budgets and curtail-
ment in staff, it is impossible to meet the demand
except through the service of a greater number
of volunteers. Never before has the challenge to
the recreation movement been so great.

The settlements constantly require additional
workers to meet the need of the new era. New
classes and clubs are being continually added to
the program, each with definite interests and
worth to enhance the personality development of
the members. Many leaders feel that 95 per cent
of the success of the group depends upon the lead-
ership. The selection of volunteer leadership,
therefore, is of the utmost importance and should
be made with great care.

The avenue through which volunteer workers
are secured should receive careful attention in
order that people will be reached whose back-
ground, training and interests attract them to
work with settlement groups. Definite analysis of
club and group needs should be made before the
contact is begun. The staff director should have
definite plans and goals before asking for help.
Problems of standards and technical content of
the program fall within the
province of the staff mem-
bers who have the under—
standing of neighborhood
needs and the philosophy of
the movement. The volun—
teer has much to offer in
suggestions for programs and
in material for crafts and
social-education projects. Be-
fore making a definite assign-
ment of a volunteer leader it

ployed workers.

By DELITE M. MOWER

Director of Girls' Work
Henry Street Settlement

With the coming of summer, the problem
of leadership for the playgrounds and

other play centers confronts the super- The following activities
intendent of recreation and his govern-
ing body. Volunteers must be found and

trained to supplement the staff of em—

Miss Mower's suggestions, offered here,
are based upon settlement experience,
but many of them may be adapted to the
needs of play centers.

is a good plan to arrange a meet—
ing of the volunteer and the
group and to get the reaction of
both. In this way each has an
opportunity to form an Opinion.

Each club member is an in-
tegral part of the gI'OLlp and joins for the express
purpose of finding happiness and comradeship. It
is, therefore, necessary first of all for the leader
to establish friendly relationships with each mem-
ber of the group. To do this she visits the homes
to win the friendship of the parents and learn
their racial background and customs.

Recruiting and Training the Volunteer

The problem of successful group work is pri—
marily one of recruiting, training and holding
competent leaders who understand both individual
and group psych010gy. The ideals and standards
of the group must be measured and all aims
achieved.

Club leaders may be recruited from the fol-
lowing classes:

(I) Friends of professional workers.

(2) Students and graduates of recreation and
social service schools.

(3) Individuals who are genuinely interested
in being of service to organizations because of

their love for people and their desire to help their
fellow men.

The Application Blank

As a help in handling, classifying and analyzing
the fitness of leaders, an application blank is gen-
erally used giving the name, business and home
address and telephone number of the applicant,
his educational qualifications,
his preferences in age group
interests, and his reasons for
such preferences.

may be offered for checking
first and second choices:

art athletics
drawing swimming
music sketching
singing painting
operettas special hobbies

243

244 VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP

nature study
economics
politics

poster making
handcra ft

sewing
first aid

golf

paddle tennis
politics

story telling

short story writing
dramatics

tennis

indoor circus

An application
blank of this type
gives an idea of the
interests and abilities
of each applicant for
club or class assign-
ment.

Time requirements must be taken into account.
Not only should a leader meet her group once or
twice a week, but in order to understand each
group better extra periods must be given to home
visits, hikes, trips, field excursions and personal
conferences with the members.

After three references—personal, professional
and educational—have been investigated, the lead-
ers, if accepted and assigned to groups, agree to
stay for a year. They are then asked to attend a
leaders’ training course and have monthly con-
ferences with the professional workers in charge.
Supciwision Important '

Definite supervision must be given these new
volunteers. Reports of progress should be sys-
tematically kept with records of assignments, ac—
complishments, length and days of service, and
opinions of work given by all department heads
with whom the volunteer works. This data is
helpful not only for the use of the organization,
but later if references are desired. In the present
economic situation many college graduates who
have been unsuccessful in securing positions have
preferred to do volunteer work rather than re-
main idle. The organizations served should feel a
sense of responsibility toward these workers.

In preparing a report of a group’s progress
under a volunteer the following factors should
be evaluated:

(1) Age and purpose of group or club.
(2) Length of time in existence.
(3) Program.

 

Courtesy Yosemite Park and Curry Co.

A group which is typical of many for whom ade-
quate leadership must be provided this summer.

(4) Degree of ac-
complishment.

(5) Special inter-
ests.

(6) Advancement

Volunteer C In?)

Leaders’ Training
- Course
As soon as the vol-
unteer staff has been
selected, the club
leaders’ t r a i n i n g
course should begin.
To this reserve vol—
unteers not yet as-
signed may also be
invited.
The program in-
cludes four or six
sessions dealing with
subjects related to the work required of the vol—
unteers. It is well for staff members to be pre-
sent at the training course, as well as important
board and committee members. The program
should be carefully planned covering training in
policy, principle and technique which a volunteer
must understand before leading a group. Subject
matter and purpose should be carefully studied
and house standards thoroughly stressed. It is
desirable for the head worker to open the course,
stressing the possibilities and achievements of
clubs, classes and social activities in the settlement
program. This should include neighborhood and
community work and the part of each worker in
the movement as a whole. The picture should be
vividly painted to stress the importance of the
volunteer leader and his close affiliation with the
professional worker as adviser and helper. It is
well to have on the program two or three well
known national leaders in the field to give inspir-
ation, point out the larger sphere of service and
show the value of the unit club or class in the
field of community work. Subjects such as the
following are of general interest in the training
course:

(1) Social activities in the club program.

(2) House standards.

(3) Organization and control of business meet-
ings and council activities.

(4) Open meetings, club parties and seasonal
celebrations, festivals.

(Contimwd 01: page 254)

World at Play

 

AT the grade school
at Chillicothe, Illinois.
a substitute for the
children’s w a d i n g
pool and bathing beach, known as the “Sprinkle-
wade,” has been successfully installed. The ap-
paratus is 40 feet long, 8% feet high, with a
I 12 inch iron pipe fastened on the two posts with
flanges and braced with a small cable. The water
pipe is fastened to the iron pipe and has four
sprinklers which can be attached or detached, as
desired, or placed permanently. The surface of
the ground for about 12 feet by 40 feet is heavily
covered with sand. It may be well, Mr. George
Milne suggests, to dig out a foot or so of soil,
cover the bottom with woven wire and then fill
in with plenty of sand. At the right of the ap-
paratus is a sand box for play and modeling pur-
poses. A pipe is fastened over the sand box where
a hose may be attached when necessary to keep
the sand usable.

The “Sprinklewade” —
A Novel Device

T H E Milwaukee,

Wisconsin, Race Re-
lations Council has in—
stituted a series of
tours of understanding designed “for all who de-
sire to understand.” Trips are taken to various
foreign sections of the city, and those interested
are given the opportunity to become acquainted
with the institutions and customs of the foreign
born. On May 20th an opportunity was given to
see something of Italian life in Milwaukee. Those
going. on the trip met at one of the schools where
they were grouped into small units and taken
about in cars under the leadership of guides.
The trip was designed to give the visitor an
idea of housing conditions, civic organization and
business interests. After dinner at one of the
Italian restaurants, the group adjourned to the
Andrew Jackson Social Center where a program
was presented. This consisted of talks by the
distinguished citizens of Italian descent and en—

245

Milwaukee Tours of
Understanding

246 WORLD AT PLAY

No Recreation Congress in I933!
T IS WITH great reluctance that the

National Recreation Association has
reached the conclusion there ought not to
be a Recreation Congress in October, 1933,
as was originally planned. The replies re-
ccived from recreation executives, officials
and others who have attended the meetings
held in the past, indicate that very many
of those who have formerly attended in
past years will find it impossible to come
in 1933. Financial considerations also

enter in.

The Association believes, however, it is
essential that there shall be a Recreation
Congress in the fall of 1934 and urges that
all bcgin planning for such a Congress.

tertainment numbers by various clubs of the cen-
ter the members of which were first, second and
third generation Italian Americans. A glimpse
was given of social center activities through
stereopticon slides, and the evening closed by the
singing of Italian folk songs by all with informal
visiting, neighbor with neighbor.

To the Aid of Artists—V. K. Brown of the
South Park Commissioners, Chicago, Illinois.
writes that several exhibits have been held of
products of community craftsmen.‘ The exhibit

“Recreation and Unemployment”

O A publication of interest to all individuals
and groups concerned with keeping up the
morale of the unemployed.

     
   
  
   

O The booklet tells what a number of com-
munity groups are doing to meet the
problemI how buildings of all ltinds are
being used as recreation centers. and de-
scribes the activities conducted. Plans for
organization are suggested and information
given regarding the made work program
through which many cities are increasing
their recreation facilities.

 
       
   
   
   
     
 
 

PRICE $.25

  
 

National Recreation Association

3|5 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

      
 

 

was first staged in the park buildings where no
sales are permissible, but subsequently it moved
into a vacant store where people wishing to pur-
chase articles or give orders for articles to be
made up specially were able to do so. At the art
exhibits downtown on the Boulevard the artists
actually sold their paintings and took orders on
park property.

Some Playground Circuses of 1932—A circus
which attracted more than 12,000 people to Oak
Park culminated the summer’s playground sea—
son of the Department of Recreation of Lansing,
Michigan. Opening with a grand processional led
by the 199th field artillery band, the circus moved
swiftly along to its final act, a thrilling chariot
race. A novel feature of the program was the
presentation of a tableau in honor of Gebrge
Washington. Most of the settings and costumes
for the circus were made by the children of the
various playgrounds.

Among the most popular events on the Los
Angeles playgrounds last summer were the cir-
cuses, twenty—two of which were held. Three
thousand and eighty children appeared as per—
formers before audiences totaling 66,200 The
Lynchburg, Virginia, circus was a benefit per-
formance. The admission fees—IO cents for chil-
dren, 20 cents adults———were given to the chil—
dren’s milk fund of the city. A dress rehearsal
of the feature acts of the circus was given at the
Children’s Hospital.

The second annual playground circus to be held
under the auspices of the Recreation Board of
Monroe, Louisiana, was presented at one of the
public parks under three large tents. There were
twelve side shows, and over three hundred chil-
dren participated in the parade which took place
in the center of town.

Good News From Evansville—This year the
playgrounds maintained by the Department of
Municipal Recreation of Evansville, Indiana, will
be open thirteen weeks instead of nine as they
were last year, while the municipal swimming
pool season has been lengthened from nine to
twelve weeks. Four new tennis courts are being
built on one of the playgrounds.

And the Wheels'Go ’Round! — “There is
energy in the American people, in the bodies and
spirits of old people,” states an editorial in the
Detroit Free Press. “The younger ones find an

WORLD AT PLA Y 247

outlet for it in returning to skate and bicycle
wheels. Their elders bend it toward the revival
of industry.” The editorial states that in Detroit
boys and girls and many of their not too aged
elders are roller skating, whole blocks of city
streets having been roped off to provide special
public rinks. Roller skating is popular in Ann
Arbor as well, an all city roller skating carnival
having been held to raise money for the Student
Good-Will Fund. Bicycle wheels are also going
round. In Detroit streets beyond the center of the
town “shining spokes of revolving wheels flash in
the spring sunshine.”

A Drama Contest in Philadelphia—As a cul—
mination of the season’s intensive drama training
given under the leadership of Mrs. Elizabeth
Hanley of the Philadelphia Playground Associa-
tion, eighteen of the community centers main-
tained by the Bureau of Recreation of Philadel-
phia have held a one act play tournament directed
by Mrs. Hanley and Charles J. Geiger, supervisor
of Vare Center. Forty-eight plays were given over
a period of three weeks to determine the center
with the best Thespians, divided into three groups
-——children, junior and senior. The winner of the
children’s group (eight to fourteen years of age)
was Kingsessing Center which gave “The Birth-
day of the Infanta.” Kensington Center took a
prize for the junior group (fourteen to seventeen
years) with “The Shutting of the Door.” The
winner of the seniors (seventeen to sixty years
of age) was Waterview Center which presented
“The Bishop’s Candlesticks.”

It is estimated that 838 individuals have par-
ticipated in the season’s dramatic activities con—
ducted under the Bureau’s auspices. Directors
trained in the institute are working in many local
institutions as well as in settlements and com—
munity centers.

Old Customs in Mallorca—Many old time
customs still exist in the Island of Mallorca, one
of the Balearic Islands in the Mediterranean be-
longing to Spain. “The biggest celebration of the
festive season,” writes Hattiemae Austin, a recre-
ation worker now traveling in Europe, “is on Jan—
uary the sixth, the feast of the Epiphany, which
in the minds of the Spanish children is the real
Christmas. Three kings go riding about the
streets of Mallorca on their way to the holy man-
ger at Bethlehem and fill the shoes of children
left on window sills with gifts that have been

At last - 

in a Swing Seat!

Everwear Scores Again!

 

       
     
 

Patent Pending

No more serious dan-
ger from a swing seat
IF it is the new, Ever-

Wear

Spring - Rubber
Safety Seat
No. 511-205

All exposed and con-
tact surfaces of the
seat are soft, springy,
tubular, corrugated,
fabric-reinforced rub-
ber. The five tubular
rubber section are in-
teriorally reinforced
by spring steel.

The suspension

clevises are re-
versible, doubl-

ing the life of
the seat.

The seat is venti-
lated and all sur-
faces are non-slip.

R e-e quip all old
swing outfits and
specify this seat for
all new swings.

 

A complete line of approved Playground Apparatus. Beach

and Pool Equipment. Write for new Catalog No. 24.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.

SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

24g MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 1
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

          

MAGAZINES

The Parents’ Magazine, July, 1933.
Everyone Needs to Play, an editorial by Howard S.

Braucher.
A Vacation Schedule of Play and Rest, by Ethel

ShrefHer Heebink.
New Facts About Movies and Children, by James

Rorty.

New Jersey Municipalities, June, 1933.
Playtime in Trenton, by George W. Page.
Parks and Playgrounds, edited by F. S. Mathewson.

The Survey, June Midmonthly, 1933. .
An Emergency Message to Community Leaders, by

Arnold Bennett Hall and Harold S. Buttenheim.

The Farmer’s Wife, July, 1933.
Rural Youth “Uprises,” by Carroll P. Streeter.

H ygeia, July, 1933.

Safe Swims for Campers, by Phyllis Jackson.
Training for Athletics and Health, by Alfred E.

Parker.

Swimming Pool lVorld, June, 1933.

The Swimming Badge Tests.
The Need for Municipal Pools.

Parks and Recreation, June, 1933.
A Memorial Park Giving Recreation Service, by

Perk W'hitman.
Indoor Games.

PAMPHLETS

Twenty-third Annual Report of the Boy Scouts of
America, 1932.

Committee on Health of the New York Principals Asso-

ciation. .
Follow-up of the White House Conference on Chlld

Health and Protection.

A National Plan for American Forestry.
Forest Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture,

Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.

Annual Report Westchester County, New York, Recre-
ation Commission, 1932.

Annual Report of the Recreation Commission of Long
Beach, California, 1932.

Charlotte, N. C.—Report of Park and Recreation Com-
mission for March, April and May, 1933.

Annual Report of the Board of Park Commissioners, Fort
Wayne, Ind.. 1932.

National Playing Fields Association Annual Report,
1932-33.

suggested in letters placed in special municipal
post boxes. On New Year’s eve everyone at-
tending a party holds twelve grapes in his hand.
As the new year is chimed in by much bell ring—
ing, one grape is eaten at each stroke. Each
grape is a promise of luck, prosperity and happi-
ness throughout the coming twelve months.

“Palma, the capital of Mallorca, with a popula-

 

 

tion of 90,000, is still a city of ancient times.
Fishermen mend their nets along the streets of
the main waterfront and women wash at the vil-
lage tank. Occasionally one finds a group of boys
wearing the native gingham pinafores playing
marbles or hopscotch on the streets. An Ameri—
can recently was immortalized when he gave a
football to a group of working boys. After the
day’s work the boys hurry to their humble homes
for their meager supper and then enjoy a play
hour in a patio near the hotel. Their loud shouts
of delight prove the universality of the play
mstlnct.”

Activities For the Unemployed in Hamilton,
Canada—On April 27th the unemployed artists
of Hamilton, Canada, gave a variety show before
a large audience. Much splendid talent was
brought to light in presenting the show. There
were selections by an orchestra, a “mirthful,
magical musical” by Stan Hall and his Hawaiians,
a presentation of tricks and magic, a show by Alex
and his minstrels, and a number of other features.
The Proceeds of the show were given to the Com-
mittee on Recreation for the Unemployed and the
Amity Clubs Association, sponsored by the Family
W'elfare Bureau.

Tourists’ Sports Clubs—Tourists’ sports clubs
in St. Petersburg, Florida, pay their own way
almost entirely and receive little from the city.
Where additional facilities are necessary a club
increases its membership fees or raises enough
from its fees to reimburse the city for such facil-
ities. Costs of game equipment, care-taking, light-
ing, etc., are borne by the club itself. Each club
elects its own officers, collects its membership
dues and fees, and is made responsible for activi-
ties. The Recreation Department is the contacting
agency with these groups. A Sports Council,
made up of the presidents and secretaries of the
various clubs, has been formed with the Superin-
tendent of Recreation as chairman. This council
meets once a month during the tourist season.
Then problems are discussed, and each club is
familiar with the activities'of the others. At the
beginning of the year the Sports Council visits
around the different clubs and meets the officers
and groups.

How One City Handles Its Basketball
Teams—The Park Department of Wilmington,
Delaware, has an interesting way of handling its

IVORLD AT PLA Y 249

basketball teams. There are 62 teams playing
almost every night of the week with about 1,000
boys a night taking part. At the opening of the
season and at intervals during it, Miss Jennie
Weaver, Supervisor of Playgrounds, holds a mass
meeting of team members to discuss rules and
debatable questions coming up and methods of
handling the problems. In January alone there
were three such meetings. Each team appoints
two nonmembers to take charge of the lockers
and the general conduct of the game. Miss Wea-
ver reports the plan works out excellently because
it gives the boys a 'sense of responsibility and an
appreciation of the facilities made available for
them. Most of the teams have vounteer leaders;
26 playground teams have 18 senior men leaders
and 12 junior teams have 9 leaders. On Saturday
afternoon at Madison House, the city owned
house in the park, the graduates of the youth
group come together to the number of 125 men
who have virtually grown up on \Vilmington
playgrounds and take part in basketball and other
games. From this grOUp Miss Weaver secures
her best volunteer leaders.

Awards—Last summer it was decided in
Augusta, Georgia, not to offer trophies or medals
in connection with the playground program but
to see what effect this would have on participa—
tion and interest in the activities. Participation
has never been more widespread than it was dur—
ing this period, and there was a noticeable in-
crease in the number of adults taking part.

Developments in Charlotte, North Carolina
—-—Charlotte_. North Carolina, has a symphony
orchestra composed of about 100 pieces and a
civic chorus of several hundred voices. Both
these organizations are being fostered by the Park
and Recreation Commission. Recently the chorus
presented a'light opera. One of the outstanding
developments of the year has been the outdoor
theater which seats about 4,000 people. During

the summer union services were conducted at the

theater by six local churches, the Superintendent
of Recreation leading the singing. The use of this
facility has made a strong impression upon the
community.

Once a week there is an article in the local
paper telling the story°of one of the playgrounds
or community centers, the facilities available and

how they are used. This has proved very helpful
publicity.

.- . . —- - - - 1
if.
--l:—mm-A\Il\lm‘% WW"‘A

. . . Playgrounds

can’t afford dust
this year . . . . .-

 

 

l i

 

Both economy and health
urge this protection!

ROTECTION of children against the dirt and
dangers of dust! Protection of the playing
surfaces against disintegration which is the cause of
dust! Both kinds of protection are assured with the

use of Solvay Calcium Chloride on gravel and earth
surfaces.

Playgrounds everywhere find Solvay treatment the
ideal way to end the dust nuisance. Clean and white,
it does not traek or stain. It is easy to apply and
economical to use. And in addition to keeping down

dust, it actually kills harmful germs that live and
breed in dust.

Let Solvay Calcium Chloride help you lower the cost
of keeping surfaees in good eondition. Write today
for booklet 1159 and full information.

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

Alkalies and Chemical Products Manufactured by
The Solvay Process Company
New York

SOLVAY
Calcium Chloride

mane MARK REG. u. s. PAT. OFF.
Flake 77% -80%

 

250 A RECREATION DEPARTMENT MEETS AN EMERGENCY

Designs for Tooled Leather-Book l

0 A book of 12 plates containing 41 full-
size modern designs to fit all the articles
usually made of hand tooled leather. The
designs may be easily adapted to other
forms of craft work.

Price $l.00 postpaid
Order from the author
MRS. LOUISE C. HOEFER

3” E. Lomita Street Glendale. California

 

A Recreation Department Meets

An Emergency
(Continued from page 216)

tainers and the Los Angeles County Recreation
Department offered considerable assistance along
this line. Mr. Raymond Hoyt, Stlperintendent of
Municipal Recreation in Los Angeles; Mr. James
Reid, Superintendent of Recreation for Los An-
geles County, and Mr. C. C. Martin, Director of
Schools and Municipal Recreation in Pasadena.
all visited our Recreation Headquarters and of-
fered unlimited assistance to our Recreation Com-
mission in meeting the emergency problems. Mr.
Virgil Dahl of the Los Angeles County Recrea—

Read This Letter

“\Vhen I moved in as Director of
Crystal Pool, Glen Echo Park, Mary-
land, right under my arm I carried
your complete Reference Book -—
Notable Swimming Pools and Guide
to Equipment and Supplies.

"This Guide has served me dozens
of times already. It is, indeed, the

Pool Bible.
“(Signed)

“CAPT. Eow. H. MCCRAHON.”

NOTE: Before becoming Director of Glen Echo,
Capt. McCrahon was for seven years manager of
Spa M unr'cr'pa! Pool and Beach, St. Petersburg, Fla.

Send for a Cepy To-day

THIS $2.00 VOLUME WILL BE SENT FOR
54 CENTS IN STAMPS. IF THE SUPPLY HAS
BEEN EXHAUSTED UPON RECEIPT OF
YOUR STAMPS. SAME WILL BE RETURNED

Hoffman-Harris, Inc.

“4 E. 32nd STREET NEW YORK CITY

 

tion Department and Mrs. Florence Scott of the
same Department gave recreation programs
throughout the devastated areas outside of Long
Beach and were very helpful in assisting the Long
Beach staff in many problems during the two
weeks.

Active Recreation Follows

Organized games and recreation activities be-
came more in demand as the period of hysteria
wore off. This made it possible for our staff
gradually to supplant the entertainment features
of our recreation programs with the more highly
organized recreation and athletic games. These
more active games were under the general suPer-
vision of Mr. A. Milton Fish, Supervisor of Ath-
letics for the Long Beach Recreation Commis-
sion. Many of the following activities were or-
ganized for people of all ages: Baseball, volley
ball, tennis, croquet, group games, chess, jig-saw
puzzles. Mrs. Fern L. Kruse, Supervisor of
Pageantry and Dramatics for the Recreation
Commission, did much of this type of work with
the small children at Bixby Park in addition to
promoting and managing plays and pageants
almost daily.

Since the earthquake made it necessary to sus-
pend all school work temporarily, a request for
volunteer play directors was issued to the city
teachers for the purpose of supervising play on
ten school playgrounds. These playgrounds were
operated exclusively on a volunteer basis for a
period of two weeks with a total attendance of
14,000. They gave the children a wholesome out-
let for their pent up youthful energy and the serv—
ice was deeply appreciated by the parents who
felt the strain of caring for these children who
were unable to attend school.

Disaster tests the ingenuity and resourcefulness
of people. We were particularly impressed during
the emergency by the generous and line attitude
displayed by everyone. More pe0ple volunteered
their services than could be employed. The gen-
erosity and response of our Recreation Commis-
sion staff was tested and found to be one hundred
percent loyal. Many of these individuals worked
without regard to hours, rest or sleep. Many
worked nights and days more or less regularly
during the first two weeks. 'It seemed impossible
to take time off when so many individuals were
in such great need. The emergency seemed to
draw people of all classes more closely together

RECREATION IN WESTCHESTER COUNTY 251

and promote their best qualities. Caste and social
distinction seemed to be forgotten.

The emergency demonstrated again the many
types of service which only a recreation staff is
equipped to render in the community. Thousands
of people appreciated the cheerful and safe sur-
roundings of the large grassy park areas which
furnished adequate space for the army tent cities.
Other municipal facilities which proved indispen—
sable were park club houses, coffee houses, fire
rings, band stands, outdoor theaters, public toilet
facilities, athletic fields, dressing and shower fa-
cilities, picnic tables, children’s play apparatus,
and public address systems. \Vithout these fa-
cilities, our city would have experienced an al-
most impossible situation.

One of the lessons which other cities should
learn from the Long Beach experience is the
necessity of having an organized emergency or-
ganization set up in advance.

Recreation in Westchester County
(Continued from page 222)

regional, a more widespread provision of opportunities
for worthwhile leisure time occupation. On the other
hand the government will recognize that only by public
provision of facilities and programs will the abundance
of leisure of the people be turned into channels which
are productive of general happiness and social safety.
The work which has already been accomplished in West-
chester in establishing community recreation must be re—
garded, therefore, as a mere frame-work upon which a

larger and more complete structure of recreation will be
built in the future.”

This “mere frame-work” of an ideal county-
wide recreation program will be built upon pro-
gressively with the constant increase of partici-
pation in those forms of recreation having the
greatest human values and with the constant de-
crease in wasteful and harmful use of leisure
time. The creative leisure time activities whose
chief appeal lies in the thrill of anticipation and
achievement cannot lend themselves to commer-
cial exploitation. And yet we have a situation in
which millions and indeed billions of dollars are
spent by private agencies to exploit the leisure of
the people in mass amusement and entertainment
while relatively little is done to promote the more
valuable individual and group creative uses of
leisure time. The individual who foels that he
has earned a holiday from the stress imposed on
him by the modern industrial world is thrown
back upon his own resources for his much-needed

for home and office

PICTURE MAPS

Colorful —— Charming

The Map of Great Adventures
$2.50

The Map of America’s Making
$2.50

Historical Map of the State of New York
$2.00

Picture Map of Massachusetts
$2.00

All Mother Goose Panorama
$2.50

Size of each, approximately 24 x 34 inches. All
are full of color. quaint drawings and legends.
Attractive gift for child's room and library.

R. R. BOWKER C0. r NEW YORK
62 WEST 45TH STREET

“good time'” or is invited to take an inactive part
in commercial entertainment.

\Vestchester is setting the example of helping
thousands of individuals find the way to make
their own “good times” in activity which is most
satisfying because it gives the thrill of self-ex—
pression and self—development as well as social
enjoyment. Not all will become great musicians.
painters, poets or athletes, but all will undoubt-
edly be happier and stronger citizens.

How to Produce a Play

(Continued from page 225)

The costume artist designs the costumes for so-
called “costume plays,” and in every production
sees that each actor wears an appropriate cos—
tume. Otherwise the poor little orphan who
starves to death in the last act will probably come
around and starve in a new silk dress and a string
of diamonds!

Each actor secures his own costume and is re—
sponsible for it unless the costumes are rented.
Costumes are rented by the costume director.

The property man secures and has in place all
properties with the exception of hand props.

252 WHERE VOLUNTEERS ARE HELPING

Be Sure to Get Details on
NEW "Free Glide" Shuffleboard

Free-Glide Shuffleboard equipment has in-
creased the already popular appeal of Shuf-
iieboard. Will not warp or break and is
amazingly low in cost. Write today for
complete information. instructions how to
install and extremely low prices.

’The H. G. Cress Co.

Box NR-53 Troy, Ohio.

\Valking sticks, eye glasses, calling cards and
similar articles are handled by the individual actor
who is responsible for them. The properties se-
cured by the property man include the furniture
and any other materials used in the play, such as
swords, guns, vases and flowers.

The property man should be some one who is
well respected in the community, who has a very
good name and a lot of nerve because it is his re-
sponsibility to go around and borrow all kinds of
things.

The lighting artist secures, has in place, and
operates all lighting equipment and electrical
effects.

The make-up director does not make up the
cast, but before the production teaches each actor
how to make himself up for the particular part
which he is to play. He assists with difficult or
“quick change" make-ups, and has charge of the
club make—up kit.

The music director is responsible for any music
or‘musical effects in the play, and for appropriate
music before the curtain and between acts.

The prompter prompts for most of the rehears-
als (at the least he must prompt for the last half
dozen), and for the performance. He makes a
prompt book and warns the curtain, the lighting
artist and the actors off stage before their cues.
He also takes charge of rehearsals when the di-
rector is absent or is interrupted.

When the producing staff has been completed,
they meet and the director explains the duties of
each member. They then meet with the cast and
the actors read through the play, each actor read-
ing his own lines. The play and the production
are then freely discussed. The time (of day, sea-
son and year) of each act is decided upon in order
to avoid winter scenes and summer costumes in
the same act.

The place (room, locality, state or country) of
each act is then determined.

The. mood (general atmosphere to be created
in the audience) is next decided for each act.

After going over the play thoroughly as a unit,
each member of the producing staff begins upon
his own job, always working in close cooperation,
however, with the director and the other members
of the staff.

Where Volunteers Are Helping
(Continued from page 231)

to follow day by day news accounts of our
activities.

On June 1st the entire program was launched.
It is working not so smoothly as under the paid
leaders but in a splendid way. The recreational
director has scheduled his program so as to be at
each park twice weekly for major programs
where volunteer leaders may see new steps in the
program take form. Four parks a day operate
under this plan and the trip is so arranged as to
permit a moment here and there at other parks
very often. There must be no chance for a tiny
slip to become a dangerous landslide!

Baseball is now under way with the director
once more able to be on hand at the diamonds in
order to start the games before moving on to
another program. Plenty of work, yes—but the
job is going ahead! New children are coming out
by the scores. This is not surprising in view of
the new interest which 125 volunteer workers are
developing. It is no idle boast to say we have a
program for 1933 just four times bigger than the
record breaker of 1932, and there will be, we feel
sure, a 50 per cent increase in attendance.

The plan of volunteer service is workable.
Three main things are needed—a carefully
planned and understood pr0gram in advance; a
sincere group of workers not hampered by red
tape or unnecessary organization ideas, and the
full confidence of the citizens that those in charge
are doing the best that can be done.

And, finally, our park motto—“Sportmanship

First” !

Youth Turns Natureward
( Continued from page 237)

not. enjoy the hills beyond. Store up nature ex-
periences in your youth that you may lay hold
of the highways and byways of a larger country-
side in days to come.

OUTDOOR RECREATION THE YEAR ROUND 253

The Tradition of Puritanical
New England

(Continued from page 239)

famous for Puritanism. Thus, by a natural law
of reversion, something of the music, grace, and
gayety of an earlier period of unconscious and
natural living has been preserved to sweeten the
formality, angularity, and tedium of an other-
wise beneficial religious movement.” He adds an
interesting note which says: “It is among fami-
lies with the greatest claims to social respecta-
bility that our rhymes have in general been best
preserved.”

As to dancing, the fact that Increase Mather
in 1684 found it necessary to preach a sermon
against “gynecandrical dancing, or that which is
commonly called mixt or promiscuous dancing,
of men and women, be they elder or younger
persons, together” seems to indicate that this
_especially dangerous form of dancing was already
p0pular. The fact that a special accent of the
waltz is still called the “Boston” is interesting in
this connection. New England indeed seems to
have taken the lead in dancing as it did at a later
period in such games as football, baseball and
others of our major sports.

Outdoor Recreation the Year Round
( C ontinucd from page 242)

by the Recreation Department. This league is
composed of six teams and three games are played
over each week-end.

Provision of horseshoe and volley ball courts
and of checker-board games in a downtown park
square, and of a municipal golf course which can
be used for a nominal fee, adds to the diversions
of the winter visitors as well as of the citizens
of Tucson. '

The interest taken in Tucson’s year-round rec—
reation program may be best exemplified by citing
the report of the Recreation Department for last
March, the peak month in attendance for the
fifteen months of organized activity. In this one
month there was a registered attendance of 25,762
in the recreation activities. Of this number,
19,300 were participants on the playgrounds; 536
were in attendance in the night baseball leagues,
and 164 in the basketball league. The tennis
courts had an attendance of 1,860; 3,100 were
using playground apparatus, and 800 had regis-
tered for horseshoe and checker-board games. An

Eagle Ringer
(pa tented)

 

DIAMOND

Official pitching horseshoes and accessories are
a necessity on every playground. Here is a
game everyone can play and enioy. Easily in-
stalled and maintained. The Diamond line in-
cludes everything from booklets of explanation
and rules to several models of official pitching
shoes. Score pads. percentage charts, carrying
cases' steel staltes and stalte holders and official
courts ready to set up—indoors or out.

Write for catalog
DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

I 46|0 GRAND AVENUE. DULUTH, MINN. I

 

attendance of 67 at the meetings conducted for
specially supervised activities made up the total
attendance for the month, which does not include
the large number of spectators at all activities.

The result of all this work has been considered
so constructive in its returns of health and happi—
ness to the community that when, recently, a
rumor of a possible temporary abolishment of the
program because of economic pressure was heard,
several of the civic organizations immediately
took steps to protest such action. Resolutions
were drawn up and various delegations presented
the resolutions to the City Council and School
Board members. The committees succeeded in
convincing those in authority of the harm of any
drastic curtailment. The budget was scrutinized
and economies were planned by lessening the
hours for the playground, swimming and wading
pool activities over last year’s program, and in-
creasing somewhat the schedule of hours of
work.

Tucson’s community recreation program is still
in its infancy but the work, under the leadership
of its recreation director, with the splendid spirit

254 VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP

Educational Guide Books

Handbooks for Parents and Teachers

PRIVATE SCHOOLS 17th Edition. 1104 pages
SUMMER CAMPS 10th Edition. 700 pages
1:: Edition. 798 page:

PRIVATE SCHOOL TEACHERS .
ANY OF THE ABOVE $6.00 (prepaid)

Circulars and sample page: free on nquut

PORTER SARGENT

ll BEACON STREET BOSTON. MASS.

of cooperation existing between the public schools
and the city and the loyal aid of the citizens
known as the Playground Commission, along with
a general city-wide interest, holds most encour—
aging promise of a continued splendid progress.
The biggest barriers have been successfully over-
come, and it is certain that Tucson will continue
to develop a program of healthful outdoor recrea-
tion for its citizens and visitors.

Volunteer Leadership

(Continued from page 244)

(5) Dramatics, handcraft, glee club, games,
dances, library.

(6) Outside activities to include hikes, picnics,
special interest trips, sports, field day and tour-
naments, exhibitions, concerts, and theatre parties.

A special section of the training course should
be given over to various department heads such
as the director of arts, of crafts, music and dra-
matics, who will explain the course of study and
at the same time interest the volunteers in the op-
portunities offered to assist the club department.

A good way to close the course is with a gala
dinner at which the president of the board may be
the guest speaker. The address might well picture
the development of the organization, inspiring
workers and volunteers to carry on and set greater
goals for the future. Ample time should be offer-
ed for discussion after each session.

Following Up the Course

The department director should follow up the
training course by weekly conferences with the
volunteers and by ‘rendering assistance“ at every
point. A'leader's loose leaf note¥book may'be
given with the group assignment. Brief articles

 

on the following subjects will prove valuable:
Club meetings and special functions; house rules;
parliamentary procedure; social programs; com-
mittee work; games for various ages, and summer
camps. New material may be added from time to
time.

It is desirable to organize a leader’s club made
up of volunteers, leaders and staff members and
to hold meetings each month during the year. The
meetings, which can be made most interesting,
may serve not only as a business but a social func-
tion. A guest speaker may be invited and a round
table discussion developed on topics determined
by the present needs of program building and in-
dividual club problems. New games, folk or na-
tional dances and refreshments may be included.
Such an interchange of ideas and mental contacts
has great value in promoting house programs.

C lub Problems

Many club and individual problems are con-
stantly arising which require tact and diplomacy
on the part of the volunteer leader. There are
times when a club becomes discouraged and is on
the point of disbanding. This is the crucial mo-
ment for the worker to get on the job and make
the needed adjustments, suggesting such solutions
as changing the meeting night, a new method of
approach or a different project. In this way new
interest is aroused and balance restored.

One leader, finding some disturbing factors in
her club, made appointments for a personal con-
ference with each member. At this time each girl
told her interests, ambitions, handicaps or prob-
lems. The leader established a more friendly com-
radeship, gained the girls’ confidence and was in a
better position to advise and adjust. Many new
angles on the club problem came to light, and it
was not long before the group was running along
smoothly.

Another leader who found interest waning on
the part of her club, advised a formal Sunday tea
for parents. The members worked out the pro-
gram and planned the decorations and refresh—
ments. They also made a rule that' no girl could
be admitted without her father or mother. A new
element of strength was added as the family sang,
danced and played games together, and an oppor-
tunity was given the leader to establish better con—
tact with the home and the community in general.

New Books

on Recreation

 

The Modern Handy Book for Boys

By Jack Bechdolt. Greenberg, Publisher, New York.
$1.00.

OYS ARE FORTUNATE in having much literature on which
to draw for their constructive play and in having at
hand suggestions and directions for making a great va-
riety of things. This book, one of the most recent con-
tributions to boy life, covers a wide held, including out-
door and indoor activities for every season of the year,
with suggestions for the making of articles appropriate
to the activities. A glance at the section headings gives
an idea of the contents. Outdoor Adventures; Outdoor
Amusements; Indoor Amusements—and here jig saw
puzzles, animated toys and the radio are introduced; The
Movies; Show Business—with Punch and Judy and sug—
gestions for making full length puppets. Section Six is
devoted to Art and Craftsmanship, and the hnal chapter
to Magic. so fascinating to the average boy.

Safety in Physical Education in
Secondary Schools

By Frank S. Lloyd. National Bureau of Casualty and
Surety Underwriters, 1 Park Avenue, New York. $1.25.

HROUGH A FELLOWSHIP provided by the National Bu-

reau of Casualty and Surety Underwriters, this in-
teresting study of accidents and injuries has been made
possible. The problem of the study, as outlined by Dr.
Lloyd, is twofold: (l) the determining of the prevalence
and nature of accidents and injuries in physical educa-
tion activities conducted in secondary schools, and (2)
the study of some of the factors which may be consid-
ered contributory to the incidence of accidents and in-
juries in these activities. The book opens with a state-
ment of the problem and the purpose and scope of the
study. Related studies and materials are discussed and
the procedure of the study described. This is followed
by a chapter on “Incidence of Accidents in Physical
Education Activities.” The Contributory Factors of Ac-
cidents in Physical Education are next taken up. Then
comes a consideration of the legal protection of the
student and school, conclusions, and an outline of prin-
ciples for safety in high school physical education. The
study and its hndings will be of keen interest to recre—
ation workers as well as school officials.

Outdoor Activities

By Blanche Bogert and Edith M. Gates. Womans Press,
600 Lexington Avenue, New York. $.35.

THERE ARE SOME very practical suggestions in this
mimeographed compilation which recreational work-
ers will hnd helpful. Information is offered on such
activities as hiking and hiking games, picnics and out-
door cookery, recreative hobbies, sports and team games,
play days and winter sports. References are made to
many sources of information.

A Guide for the Organization of

Leisure-Time Activities

National Council of Jewish Women, 625 Madison Ave-
nue, New York. $.15.

THIS PRACTICAL outline suggests some of the resources

and possibilities in a community for the creative use
of leisure time. Without attempting to be exhaustive or
complete in any one held, it touches upon many. It out-
lines some of the things communities can do, suggests
activities, tells what a number of cities have done and
gives a few hints for organizing a project. A biblio-
graphy is given.

Indoor and Outdoor Plays for Children

By John Farrar. Noble and Noble, 76 Fifth Avenue,
New York. $2.00.

IN THIS BOOK Mr. Farrar gives us nine charming plays
for children many of them written, he says, “some
years ago in the Connecticut farm country for a group
of us, children and their parents, too, playing through
the summer—time. They were acted there, and we all en-
jOyed them.” The plays have since been given in vary-
ing scenes and places, in schools, camps, indoors and
out-of—doors. The plays have settings which cannot fail
to appeal to children—a summer garden, a forest space,
the seashore, a garden swing, and a sand box.

Handwork Hints for Hard Times

Arranged by Archie Peace. Church Handcraft Service,
Seaford, New York. $.35.

SOME INTERESTING and novel suggestions for handcraft

activities are to be found in this compilation of
mimeographed material. The projects descri‘bed include
stick printing, crayonexing, wire modeling, whittling,
spool work and wood burning.

My American Friends

By L. P. Jacks, LL.D. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $2.00. '

DR. JACKS’ NEWEST BOOK is well named not only be-
cause it is an interpretation of the human side of
American life, but because he has brought to his task
a knowledge, an experience, and a sympathetic under-
standing of Americans as individuals, based upon many
visits to our country over a period of nearly fifty years.
The present justification for the book (if, indeed, Dr.
Jacks’ analytical powers and interpretive skill ever need
any justihcation for being exercised) was an extensive
tour of America in 1931 and 1932 during which he cov-
ered all parts of the country, addressed audiences in
forty-two of the forty-eight states and held innumerable
conferences with leaders in civic, social, political, in-
dustrial and educational life. Few visitors from other
lands have had a better opportunity to see and know

255

256 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

America. He writes of us out of a rich background of
observation, a long acquaintance, and lastly from an up-
to-date, first hand view of all parts of the nation. What
he says is therefore significant because it is not hearsay.

He comments on our love of “problems” or love of
discussing them. He calls America “the problem hunter's
paradise” and his report of our attitude toward problems
brings into bold relief some of our high aspirations. He
is always impressed with the zeal with which groups and
conferences go at the attainment of these aspirations.
English visitors at an educational conference he thinks
would imagine themselves at an religious revival. “ . . .
\Vhat these eager men and women has at heart is noth-
ing less than the future of their country, which they are

all intent on building up into some sort of Kingdom of
God.”

Indeed, it was while attending one of these conferences
(the National Recreation Congress in 1930) that the
idea of Dr. Jacks' tour was conceived:

“Greatly impressed by the personnel of this move-
ment, and encouraged by the interest shown in what I
said, I was led to study the movement more closely and
became convinced that it represented an interesting cur-
rent of American life, but one which I had previously
known nothing of. I knew, of course, that the notion of
America as a land of universal hustle, ‘go-getting’ and
dollar worship was far from being the ‘whole truth and
nothing but the truth,’ but I was unprepared to find a
powerful movement in existence, with nation-wide ram—
ifications, working in the opposite direction. Here was a
large body of men and women, comprising thoughtful
and public—spirited citizens from all parts of the United
States, genuinely interested in the art of wise living."

Dr. Jacks finds in our standardization a blessing—
“A condition absolutely essential to all forms of human
originality. It is a rock on which originality builds . . . .
whence follows the comforting hope for the world at
large and for America in particular.”

Deploring the absence of the best minds in our politi-
cal life, Dr. Jacks says “America is singularly rich in
the human material which might produce political lead-
ership of the highest order. The tragedy is that it does
not lead. Her resources are vaster than she knows and
not always what she thinks they are.”

Several chapters are devoted to recreation. It is “one
of the most promising currents in American life,” says
Dr. Jacks, and proceeds to report on the public concern
found on the part of civic leaders about recreation; the
devoted and skilled persons making up the profession of
recreation leadership; the work and influence of the Na-
tional Recreation Association; the richness of program
found in the public recreation departments in many cities;
and in, general on many aspects of what he calls “that
remarkable phenomenon, the municipal recreation of
America.”

Comparing the American system of trained leaders
with the English system where leaders for recreation are
less used, Dr. Jacks says, “I have no hesitation in say-
ing which of the two methods gives the better results in
morals, sociability and fun."

The lovely places and the dark spots are treated im-
partially and this makes the reader more eager to see
what is ahead and to learn what he and his discriminat-
ing wife (for she was his constant companion on the last
trip) had to say about the streets, sidewalks, open places,
people, children, the noises, the smells, ideas, aspirations,
methods and emotions of Americans.

And the reader is not disappointed. He closes the
hook feeling that he and his fellow Americans have been
described by an understanding friend from England. The
book should be read by all persons who are concerned

with our social problems and will be read with delight
by those who see a rich promise in a better understand-
ing of international friendships.

The Forest For Recreation and a
Program FOr Forest Recreation

Prepared by the Forest Service, U. S. Department
of Agriculture. U. S. Government Printing Office,
\Vashington, D. C.

This report, a reprint from a national plan for Ameri-
can forestry, discusses the volume and nature of forest
recreation from a monetary and social basis, the pur-
poses, the types of recreational forest areas, the prob-
lems of forest recreation, and the area to be set aside
for recreation. It is estimated in the report that ap-
proximately 45,000,000 acres will be required primarily
for recreational use. Of this acreage the largest amount
(11,000,000) will be devoted to outing areas.

A Program Book For YOUng
Women in Small Communities

By Elizabeth B. Herring. Womans Press, New
York. $.50.

In this booklet Miss Herring gives us some practical
suggestions for the problem, recOgnized as a difiicult one,
of providing for the needs of young women in small
communities, particularly in their leisure time life. She
outlines briefiy a number of organization plans, recom-
mends source material on educational opportunities, dra-
matics and music, and tells some of the things which can
be done in a workshOp. Some indoor and outdoor recre-
ational opportunities are given with source material.
Conditions affecting young women are touched upon,
such as the economic situation and citizenship, vocational
education and earning a living, home-making and mar-
riage, self-help and mutual aid, and finding a philosophy
of life. References to source material accompany all
suggestions. The publication has much to offer all lead-
ers in girls' activities whether in cities or smaller
communities.

Officers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association
OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDwARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. CORBETT Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUDEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I. N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
EH14 H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

UGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
WILLIAM HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York N. Y.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hrcxox, Michigan City Ind.
MRS. Famcrs DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N’. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY,_ New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS, CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.
J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Washington, D. C.
FREDERICK S. TITSwoaTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, £3", Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. .
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
{EH14 G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

RS. WILLIAM H. WOODIN, JR., Plainfield, N. J.

