Economy

VE wherever possible—but do not save where you cannot.

Money is being wasted right now trying to save where it cannot be done.

   
 
  
   
    
  
   
   

There is no saving in closing a church. It is a great extravagance to close the
w. for “two days a week.”

There is real economy in opening up more libraries and buying and circulating
books

“Burning people out" through idleness is worse than burning up buildings be-
- people are the real wealth, the creators of wealth. Books to keep minds and
alive, to keep them from turning to dust. are real economy.

But every one can't read and no one can read all the time. Man must be active
e ceases just that much to be man. That's the nature of man.

Gardens now are for activity as well as for food. Music helps keep up the
hm of living.

Swimming pools, skating ponds, ball fields, indoor recreation centers, handcraft
ers—are not luxuries, unless it is a luxury for the human being to keep active.

Keeping men active when there is no work is the first essential in any program
conomy.

We keep the mines pumped out—even when they are idle, because otherwise no
5 are left when we want to go back to work.

Men without activity—mines without pumps—both are equally wasteful. Even
machines we keep up against the time of using again. Activity is just as essential
od—to keep men fit for the time of working again.

But God forbid that we think of men, of ourselves, only as a means of
llCtiOIl!

What of real living for ten to 'twelve million men and women who for a year

' had no “life” in work and must have "life" if they have it at all, in their homes.
r churches, their recreation centers. If work is withheld, withhold not music.

a, art, beauty, sport. Withhold not the chance to be active in ways that give
asure of growth, a measure of satisfaction.

Economize, yes—but there is no economy in reducing religion. education. libra-
recreation, art, at a time when what holds men’s souls together should be increased.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

anuary,l933

457

 

Winter’s Fairyland

‘1

Courtesy "A men'can Forests”

458

  

Plans
For Play

 ewark

 
   

one large city organized and is
inistrating its recreation program.

   
  
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
  
  

l
, 1928 John H. Logan, Superintendent of

chools, and the Board of Education in New-
rk. New Jersey, decided to establish within
school system a recreation department re-
sible for both the after-school activities of
01 children and a community recreation pro-
1 for older youth and adults. The plan was
eived definitely as a part of the school scheme
. it's work closely integrated and correlated
the curriculum, yet retaining all the freedom
voluntary participation traditionally associ-
with the recreation movement.

is now three and one-half years since this
approach to the organization of a commun-
recreation pro-
. 1 was under-
’ 1. The adjust-
ts and reorgan-
on necessary to
inctioning hav-
now been com-
d, a review of
plan and the
mplishments to
is appropriate.

ressive Living
e Objective

e plan is bas-
n the recrea-
1 needs of per-
. of all ages and
sified inter-
. Drama,music,
ts, and social
eation are included
‘ with games, appa-
5 play, dancing, and

‘v

 

For many, muslc is vital to expressive liv-
ing. A band is one oi the activities on the
program oiNewark's Recreation Department.

By
WEAVER PANGBURN

National Recreation Association

sports. Emphasis is put upon participation to the
maximum degree while the passive watching of
the activities of others is discouraged.

The purpose of the program, to quote the di-
rector’s statement, Iis, “to offer opportunities for
the citizens of Newark to participate in worth-
while leisure-time activities and thus make their
lives more satisfying and expressive, and to make
for the community better citizens." Emphasis is
put on group initiative and responsibility in order
that the citizenship objectives may be more
readily attained.

It is expected that insofar as children and youth
in school are concerned, activities will mainly
grow gut of curricular interests. Individuals
taught game skills under the physical education
department, music skills under the music depart-
ment, and crafts
under the manual
a r t s department
secure their oppor-
tunities to exercise
these skills on the
playground and at
the community
center under the
general direction of
the recreation de-
partment. Thus the
curricular and the
after-school activi-
ties are related.
They inter-act
upon and enrich
each other. The
recreational inter-
ests appearing in the
life of the child and
influencing his well-round-
ed development are brought
together in a coordinated

4S9

 

460 NEWARK PLANS FOR PLAY

program of after-school activities. It is also im-
plicit in the Newark plan that a c00perative re-
lationship should be built up with the private
agencies which have organized recreation pro-

grams in the city.
There is a clear-cut demarcation between the

responsibility of the recreation department for
after-school activities and the responsibility of
other departments which are concerned with cur-
ricular training during the regular school hours.

Integral Part of the Schools

To develop a recreation program with. such
objectives, it was obviously necessary to place it
under the leadership of individuals having the
viewpoint, training, and ex-
perience suited to commun-
ity recreation. Lewis R. Bar-
rett, the successful superin-
tendent of recreation in Des
Moines, was employed as
director. Mr. Barrett’s ex-
tensive and detailed survey
of the Newark situation and
his recommendations resulted
in the present plan of organ-
ization and administration.

The recreation department
is on the same basis as the
child guidance department,
department of music, de—
partment of physical educa-
tion, and other departments
of the Newark school system. The director is
responsible to the superintendent of schools. His
program embraces the conduct of after-school
playgrounds during the school year, daily pro-
grams on all playgrounds during the summer, the
operation of community centers, intra-mural
athletics, industrial and other city-wide athletic
leagues, and cooperation in recreational programs
with the various community agencies and institu-
tions. The director has one man assistant who is
responsible for the development of athletics, and
a woman assistant, responsible for the develop-
ment of balanced programs in the playground
and center. This, supplemented by secretarial as—
sistance, constitutes the central headquarters staff.

Of this arrangement Dr. L. L. Jackson, assist-
ant superintendent of schools, has stated, “It is
logical because it brings the recreation program
under the direction of individuals especially
trained for recreation service, it unifies the varied

 

Courtesy Board of Recreation, Greenwich, Conn.

There are iew recreation programs
today which are without pet shows.

recreational interests of the individual, and
assures the correlation of recreation activi
with the training provided by the other sc
departments. The addition of this departm

and the development of its program are essen
if the schools are to provide Newark child
with the activities necessary in well—rounded 1i
and prepare them for adequate living in ad
hood. The results have fully justified this t
of organized recreation service.”

A Twelve Months’ Program

Each playground has two to three worker

a man playground director, a woman play lea
and where there is an additional worker, an

sistant play leader. Th '.

are several classes of pl 

grounds. Class A pl ’

grounds and community c ‘

ters, which number sev

include beside the pl

grounds, community cent .

for adults’ open at the mi "
mum on Tuesday and F

day nights each week fr

seven to eleven o’clock fr l.

November I to May I. M. §

§

.j

J

i

l

1

  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  

I
I
4
\

forms of clubs, classes, .
activity groups are cond

ed there under trained le 1
ership. The playgrou
operate under trained le
ers from three to nine
school days, ten to one and six to nine on h i
days and Saturdays during the fall, win '-
and spring; and from one to nine during the s
mer months. The playground programs, wh

are arranged for children up to sixteen years, ’
clude active games, athletics, quiet games, d
ing, dramatics, music, handcrafts, and club
ganizations.

Class B playgrounds, numbering twelve,
organized like those in Class A with the di l
ence that they do not have community cent ’
Class C playgrounds, seven in number, are c
ducted by trained leaders for children up thro
ten years. As in the case of the other playgrou
the activities are highly diversified. There
also five playgrounds classified as D. They
organized the same as Class A and B playgrou ~
except that they are open, only during spr
summer, and fall months, closing from Septe . ‘
I to April I because of lack of indoor faciliti

  
  
   
 
 
    
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
 

esides these facilities
- are two playfields
'1g large areas suited
thletic and other ac-
ies of both older as
as younger people.
hermore, there are
athletic centers re-
ed exclusively to
gue basketball for
and girls, men and
men, representing
1ps from churches,
1 teams, industries,
l institutions, and
rnities.

ise Qualifications
of Directors

"i t h the establish-
t of the new depart-
t, qualifications for
layground leaders were immediately raised.
previous requirements minimized the value
eneral educational preparation as well as
'al training for playground work. Anyone
had graduated from a four-year high school
se or its equivalent and attended any normal
pecial school, college, or university for one
was eligible to become an assistant (play
r) on a playground; and anyone qualified as
- after serving two years in the capacity of
ssistant might become a director (head play
r). A director might qualify simply by hav-
a four-year high school course and a two-
normal school course. The examination for
ition was solely a practical one covering the
ling of games and a demonstration upon the
of the candidate of skills in certain sports.

1e qualifications now are as follows: Appli-
. for the position of playground or playfield
tor in a Class A playground or playfield must
5 one of the two following qualifications:
“ ) Graduation from an approved college or
rsity, (B) a minimum of one year’s addi-
1 training in recreation work at a recognized
I or university, and (C) at least two years’
ssful experience, or its equivalent, in recre-
‘ work including playground work, club work
hildren and adults, and community center
ience; or II. (A) Four years’ experience in
\Tewark city playgrounds as a playground
in Class A playgrounds or a playground

 

Through encouraging handcroit and arts
much latent talent is being deveIOped.

NEWARK PLANS FOR PLAY 461

director in Classes B, C,
or D playgrounds and
(B) 450 hours of ap-
proved college work.

Applicants for the po-
sitiOn of play leader in a
Class A playground or
playfield must possess
the following qualifica-
tions: (A) Graduation
from an approved four
years’ high school course
or its equivalent, and
(B) graduation from an
approved three year’s
normal school course or
its equivalent and (C)
two years’ successful ex-
perience in playground
work.

Class B Workers

The qualifications of
applicants for the position of director in a Class
B playground are the same as for a play leader
in a Class A playground.

Applicants for the position of play leadei in a
Class B playground must possess the following
qualifications: (A) Graduation from an ap-
proved four-years’ high school course, or its equi-
valent, and (B) graduation from an approved
three—year normal school, or its equivalent.

Candidates for positions in Class C or D play-
grounds must possess the following qualifications:
(A) Graduation from an approved four-year’s
high school course, or its equivalent, and (B) at
least two years’ attendance in a professional
training school, school for teachers, college, or
university.

All applicants for positions on playgrounds,
playfields, and in community centers are required
to pass a written and practical examination cov-
ering phases of recreation work determined by
the Board of Examiners. Only those passing the
written examination are eligible for the practical
examination and oral test. The Board of Exam
iners may waive the practical examination at its
discretion.

All persons qualified and appointed to a play-
ground position may be advanced to a higher po-
sition or a playground when such persons meet
the qualifications required for such position and
playground.

462 NEWARK PLANS FOR PLAY

Leaders Take Advanced Study

At the time of their appointment under these
new standards, eight playground directors and
playleaders had four to five years of under-
graduate college or university work and at least
one year Of graduate work. Eight other workers
had one to three years of college undergraduate
work and three years of normal school training.
Twenty others had two to four years of normal
school training.

Since their appointment two playground lead-
ers have taken two years of graduate work in
college, eleven have taken one year, and one has
taken part of a year. Eleven have taken two
years of undergraduate work and eight one year.
Six of the directors in the department hold the
degree of M.A. and one other will receive that
degree in 1933. Nine leaders and directors have
taken the course at the National Recreation
School and four others are at present enrolled.

Playgrounds and Centers, a Unit

The Class A playgrounds and community cen-
ters are operated as a unit, the playground staff
being responsible for the center as well as the
playground activities. While the policies for the
entire recreation program are formulated by the
director of the recreation department and the pro-
gram is under his general supervision, the prin-
cipal of each school has full authority for his
school building and playground at all times. The
playground director is expected to consult the
principal at least once a week on his program and
to provide him with his weekly forecast and re—
port. The principal is expected to report to the
superintendent at least once each term on the ef-
ficiency of all workers employed on the play-
ground.

All full-time recreation workers give six hours
a day to their work exclusive of an hour for din-
ner. In Class A play-

  
  
   
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
    
  
    
  
  

payroll and gives it to the principal for his
proval, the latter forwarding it to the school -
retary. Pay checks are handed by the princi
to the playground directors the same as
teachers.

Each Class A playground has a certain su
present $350 a year, for the hiring of sup
mentary leaders in such activities as craft cla
orchestras, bands, choruses, and drama gro
These leaders ordinarily are obtained from
teaching staff of the schools on the recomme
tion of the heads of the respective departm
to which they belong. Only such teachers as
the recreational or “hobby” viewpoint are rec
mended.

The two nights a week for Class A commu
centers are a minimum. Some centers are 0
oftener. Each center is allowed fifteen additi
nights of janitorial service over and above 1
designated for the minimum number of night
community center activity. During the pres
emergency, gymnasiums are available extra niy
each week for the special use of unemployed
This, of course, is under leadership. A pl
ground director has the privilege of using .
part of the school building with the approval
the principal.

Genuine Neighborhood Institutions

To be adequate as a community center direc
the leader must understand neighborhood so
conditions and problems as well as be a co
tent administrator of activities. He can not w
by the clock, but finds himself usually work
much longer than the hours of his contract +
for. The neighborhood service is further
veloped by the formation of advisory cou
who reflect the neighborhood’s wishes as to
tivities. That these councils might include
most representative and capable individuals, t

have not been cre

 

grounds all workers ap—
pointed for community
center activities give at
least ten hours a week
in the neighborhood
making contacts in ad-
dition to their regular
w o r k . Playground
workers sign the school
time sheet. The recre-
ation director makes up
the time sheet for the

"Any well-planned community recreational program
must be of sufficient breadth to meet the recrea-
tional needs of all different age groups. Music,
dramatics, social, manual, club,.physica| activities - all
have their place in such a program. Such a program
also should be closely coordinated with the cur-
ricular program of the school, especially that part
of the program which has to do with the recreational
life of the school-age child. In the main, the rec-
reational activities for this group should have their

start in the curricular program and should to a de- ‘

gree at least be a carry-over from this program."

—]o}m H. Logan, Superintendent of Schools,
Newark, N. J.

hurriedly, but‘ have
veloped gradually
the director and his
sistants through t
contacts discovered
most effective pers
The numbers in
councils vary. At
center there are
teen of whom seven
women and three, I
sicians.

  
    
  
 

  
 
   
  
    
   
  
   
   
    
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
  
    
  
   

irectors are given the maximum amount of
dom in the conduct of their playgrounds. The
hasis is put upon having everything that is
‘ grow out of the neighborhood’s need. Clubs
organized around common interests in activi-
The leaders have a free hand in giving
icity to and interpreting their programs. They
give stories to newspaper reporters. They
urged to contact industries as well as homes
xplaining what the playgrounds and centers
to the neighborhood. The central oHice has
(1 a poster describing the playground and
munity center activities which is available for
at factories and at other strategic points. Mr.
rett’s view is that neighborhood publicity is
‘ important than the release of newspaper
ies and other publicity from the headquarters
e. Each playground is encouraged to have its
- newspaper, staffed by the children. Such
rs besides serving their purpose as a project
he program are a useful publicity in the
es.

esides the members of the councils, each cen-
as other volunteers who serve as club leaders
organizers of activity. (For a complete dis-
ion of a Newark community center program
“The Organization of a Communty Center,”
acob W. Feldman, RECREATION MAGAZINE,
uary, 1932). While such volunteers as nor-
school students, nurses, and housewives who
teach cooking or sewing are utilized, most of
ctual instruction that goes on in centers and
rounds is given by paid leaders.

Facilities Are Improved

‘ e problem faced by the department was the
quate size of playgrounds. Like many of
lder cities, Newark had failed to plan ade-
ly either for school sites or parks. Conse-
tly many of the present playgrounds are too
1 for the major games. However, more than
,000.00 have been expended in the past three
half years for additional playground space.
involved the demolition of a number of
5. Nearly one-half million dollars have been
ided for the improvement of playground
rty. Most of this money was appropriated
e the depression. The improvement of sur-
, landscaping, and fencing, and the elimina-
nd the shifting of apparatus are details in
daptation of the available playground space
1 has made the playgrounds more usable and
ar. At the present time one large piece of

NEWARK PLANS FOR PLAY 463

property is being levied and improved at no ex-
pense to the department through the utilization
of labor assigned by the city relief committee.

Like the playgrounds, many of the old school
buildings in the city are ill adapted to recreation
purposes. In some cases the facilities are scat-
tered throughout the structure, making super-
vision difficult. The two new buildings erected
since the inception of the department offer a
striking contrast to this condition. The first floor
is designed as a complete recreation unit and in-
cludes a play room immediately under the gyfn-
nasium and equal to it in size, a reading room,
kitchen, an office for the playground director and
one for the woman play leader, showers, toilets
with entrances so placed as to be visible from the
adjoining playground and an equipment room
having access to the playground. This entire plant
may be shut off from the rest of the building with
entrances to it from the street. On the floor above
is a complete community center layout with audi-
torium, gymnasium, and the other usual facilities.
This also may be cut off from the floors above
which contain the classrooms.

Sport for Sport’s Sake

Athletics are organized to eliminate competi-
tion between playgrounds and any tendency to
commercialization. Neighborhood leagues in
playground baseball and basketball are encour-
aged. No‘athletic group may use the community
center facilities except as it is a member of the
center or of a league for which the center is fur-
nishing facilities. Industrial and church leagues
in basketball use the gymnasiums at certain
designated athletic centers in the schools. The
athletic department of the recreation system con-
ducts all the business and administrative details
of the leagues. It takes the receipts at the door,
charging ten cents admission, furnishes the ball,
and appoints the officials. All the team must do
is furnish its uniforms. Any surpluses from the
gate receipts are the property of the recreation
department.

The holding of dances in connection with
games with the sponsoring teams pocketing the
proceeds has been eliminated. No team is per-
mitted to hire a gymnasium for a regular night
during the season and to use it as a home court.
The effect of all these provisions has been to put
emphasis on the sport of playing the games, to
discourage intense inter-neighborhood rivalries,
and to eliminate commercialism.

 

464 NEWARK PLANS FOR PLAY

Close Relation to Other Departments

The relation of the recreation program to the
child guidance department will illustrate this co-
operation. Since a diversified play program is
now in operation, a social children are referred to
the playground directors for participation in ac—
tivities suited to their needs. Dr. Bruce B. Rob-
inson, head of the child guidance bureau, points
out that this Opportunity to engage in properly
organized play is peculiarly necessary for shy,
retiring, non-participating children who do not
get on adequately with other children. These
children and others who exhibit disciplinary or
developmental problems are referred to play-
ground directors when their difficulties have been
diagnosed by the psychologist. When such a case
is referred, a memorandum of the child’s case
history is handed to the recreation director.
Sometimes this is supplemented by a conference
between the psychologist and the director. Dr.
Robinson is enthusiastic about the significant
results already obtained through the cooperation
of his bureau and the recreation department. One
outgrowth is that children with mild heart dif-
ficulties previously barred from the gymnasium
floor and denied active recreational experience
are now given a rational program of play suited
to their interests and including physical activities.

As has already been suggested, the recreation
department calls upon the departments of music,
drama, physical education, and other divisions
for the enrichment of it's program.

A Community Recreation Service

The playground directors encourage the for—
mation of Boy and Girl Scout troops, furnishing
meeting places, equipment, and troop. committees.
The Scout Masters, who, of course, are volun-
teers are provided by the Scout council of the
city. Mr. Barrett is a member of the Newark
Scout Council. He sits in at the executive ses-
sions of the Y. M. C. A. of the city. The recrea—
tion department furnishes gymnasiums for the
playing of basketball games by members of the
church leagues sponsored by the Y. M. C. A.
under the regulations covering all city—wide
athletics.

All requests for permits for the use of athletic
fields, picnic grounds, and other facilities in the
Essex County Park System, including the South
Mountain Reservation, coming from students of
the school system clear through the department
of recreation office. In all matters involving co-

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  

operation, the Essex County Park Commi
has been most helpful.

There is a close relation with the Social Se
Bureau and its branch offices in the case wor
volving families whose children use the l
grounds. There is a similar cooperation wit
juvenile court'. Last summer the athletic div
of the department supervised the baseball
sponsored by the Kiwanis Club. Health and
nursing classes are held in a number of the
ters, the department c00perating with the T
culosis Association in their development.
ing the present emergency, all of the centers
vide sewing machines for unemployed wom
that they may make needed garments for
family. The cloth is supplied by the Red C
Similarly, numbers of unemployed men use
manual art shops. During the recent holiday
son most of these men were absorbed in m
toys for the children of their own families.
numbers of unemployed are referred to the o
munity centers by the social service organizat
There is also close cooperation between the l
munity centers and the branch libraries. The
tral ofnce gives attention to serving the re
tional needs of clubs and lodges, providi
clearing house of information for such grou

This close correlation of its work with nu
ous community agencies stamps the Newark
tem as a genuine, community-wide recre
service. Its correlation with the regular cur
lum and the several school departments has a
it an integral part in the Newark educat
scheme. Now, under one direction, the indiv
from early childhood through adulthood is '
the opportunity to exercise the physical, r
mic, manual, dramatic, and social skills h
learned in the curricular activities in the t
room and gymnasium. The Newark syst
thus well on its way and promises under its
plan of organization to develop into one 0
most widely effective and notable recr
systems in North America.

 

Speaking of the organization of the N
system, Mr. John H. Logan, Superintende
Schools, said: “Organized recreation of a
wide compass in the City of Newark is at p
and has been for several years under the im
ate supervision of the superintendent of sc
a director of recreation, and a small superx

(Continued on rage 496)

       

Spectator
Sportsmanship

  
   
  
  
   
  
  

‘1‘ 1s commonly supposed that the spirit of
sportsmanship, as we understand it on the
field or in the stand, is a direct descendant of
1c Olympic Games of Greece. That may be his-
rically correct, but emotionally it is not correct.
‘ e modern conception of the amateur, either as
competitor or as a spectator, has descended to
from the partially historical and partially le—
ndary conduct of King Arthur and his knights
,f the Round Table.
The Olympic Games were more a national
air and there were in the conduct of certain of
lose games characteristics that can only be de-
ribed as gruesome. The legends of King Arthur
nd the Round Table were legends of interna—
°nnal games where nobles and knights of various
ltions with their ladies and courts gathered to-
ether in Cornwall and had the jousting and the

 
 
    

G

' i. 't ' r l

C on rtesy Scholastic Coach

 
    

   

i
ho-) \P‘.
b  g“

 c‘.

  

Q
A
.’

F!

A plea For the education oi the
gallery in sportsmanship codes.

lists. Therefore, there for the first time w..s
founded the emotion of the amateur, which is
comprehended in keen, intensified competition
with no hope of material reward. The knight
who brought his lady and placed her in the stands-
riskcd his life in the contest and the. utmost re-
ward he might receive might be a rose throw 1
from her fair hand or to be tapped on the shoul
der with a sword by King Arthur.

Then we. read “The l<l}lls of the King," l‘.
Tennyson and we read other iiterature in prose
and poetry on the games of the Knights of IN
Round Table, and from them the conception '
the term "chivalry." the conception of fair pla_ .
the conception of competition simply for the 59"”
and thrill of competition. the Conception of bcirg

4s

466 SPECTATOR SPORTSMANSHIP

a host to the other nations of the world who
would meet and strive to win the championship
only for the sake of exhibiting their valor and ex-
hibiting their chivalry, came into being. Crusades
were another type of amateur sportsmanship. Of
course, there was no material reward. The re-
ward was spiritual.

Amateurs and Professionals

So we have Constantly absorbed the amateur
theory which is sport for color, sport for social
contact, sport for the joy of excellence in physical
effort without hope of material reward and the
entertainment and pride of those of our own
blood, those of our own college, those of our
own nation.

It might interest you to know perhaps how in
I England the divorce between the professional
J athlete and the amateur athlete came to be brought
about, partially by a conflict between the emotions
of an athlete and the emotions of those in the
stand. It seems formerly a noble would compete
with a peasant in fair competition—no entrance
requirements, no standards. Everything went
along well. One day there was a Ioo~yard run.
The finalists consisted of a nobleman and the local
village blacksmith. The crowd was mixed—u—nobles
and peasants. The interest was local but extremely
intense. Members of royal blood were present.
The race started. It was won by the nobleman.
The village blacksmith believed that he had re-
ceived the worst of it on the start and that the
cards had been stacked against him. The vocab-
ulary of the village blacksmith, which he had an
opportunity to accumulate from the hostlers and
those that brought horses to be shod, and per-
haps enlarged and colored by the conduct of the
horses themselves, was probably as picturesque
as any vocabulary that any man could have had
at the time, and the village blacksmith voiced his
protests in every colorful word that he had in his
vocabulary, very loudly. The ladies in the staan
particularly were offended.
The peasants and the nobles
took sides in the stand. The
officials were booed. There
was a hst fight. The whole
thingwas disgraceful.

From that time on in
those contests, when pro-
fessionals competed with or
against the nobility, they
came in separate entrances:

Mr. McGovern was co-author of "American
College Athletics," the bulletin issued by
the Carnegie Foundation for the Advance-
ment of Teaching which aroused such wide-
spread interest when it appeared in I929.
Mr. McGovern’s address, extracts from
which we are presenting here, was delivered
in connection with the Wingate Memorial
Foundation lectures. It appears in its
entirety in "Aims and Methods in School

Athletics" published by the Foundation,
57 East 56th Street, New York City.

 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
  
  

they occupied separate stands. Today in En
there is an inheritance of the disgrace of tha
for instance, in the Henley regatta, if an oa
desires to compete as a member of the
States crew, an affidavit must be sent ove
him to the effect he never earned a dollar I
use of his hands. The village blacksmith
American village, if there are horses left to

could not row in an eight-oar crew today
Henley regatta.

In their cricket matches between Austr '
England where the teams are composed o
fessionals and amateurs alike, professionals
in one gate and the amateurs come in a
The professionals sit in one part of the encl
the amateurs sit in another. The profess
have their refreshments in one pavilion a
amateurs have their refreshments in anoth

So that you might say that the first illust
of the result of lack of emotional control n
field and in the stands resulted in the inv
distinctions that are, some of them, still in
in the old country.

When we started intercollegiate and
competition in this country many years ago,
were no stands, there were no large crow
the games except the classmates or the st
in residence, the faculty, villagers, no admi
They stood around behind ropes. There \
very much commotion or fighting; if there
it was a family fight. It wasn’t published
intercollegiate and school competition was a
joyous thing.

Later on when tickets began to be sol
baseball became noted for the color of th
guage of the people in the stands when the
dressed the umpire after a close decision 3
the home team, baseball finally ceased to I.
repository of the entire population who d
to see athletic contests. Men like Tilden b
conspicuous, c‘olorfu
'crowds began to gra
over into tennis. Th
gan to carry into
stands the same 5
domination of the 0
on the field that the
in baseball. Tennis
ers were not used to
Tennis is a game d
ent very largely up

SPECTATOR SPORTSMANSHIP 467

stant perfect control
the player of his nerves
emotions.
.ut with the gate and
h the interest of the
lie generally in college
1 amateur competition
. come into this country
‘ ourse of conduct in the
ids which is most dis-
sing and which is hav-
every year more and
re of a depressing and
enerating effect upon
T ool and college and
teur competition.

here have been some
the longest and most cherished alliances be-

en universities in this country broken off more
11 on account of the conduct of the people who
nd the games than on account of proselyting,
sidizing or alleged unfair play on the field put
ether. From my experience in the Carnegie
' indation, from my observation, I know of at
t six traditional football games that are no
er being played and the reason for it is not the
k 'ers, not the faculty, not the standards of
" larship, not the standards of amateurism, but
fact that the conduct of visiting spectators or
home spectators when those two teams met
stituted such a nuisance that it couldn't be

ne any longer.

  
   
  
  

   
 
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

, For Better Sportsmanship

eople can be educated to behave themselves
'. he gallery; it has been done. . . . There is no
bt that the undergraduate bodies of various
'ersities are aware of the situation and are
1g something to meet it. But I think that you
- to go beyond the inscription on programs
odes of sportsmanship. I think you have to
omething more than the “pep” talk immedi-
' before the game. It doesn’t do any good
omment in the undergraduate Publications
a game on bad sportsmanship in the stands.
' don’t see why our freshman classes now com-
into the universities and high schools shouldn't
've lectures from either the older boys. the
hes or members of the faculty, upon the man-
in which they should conduct themselves in
. tands. And they should be warned that con-
_ in the stands which is unfair to the other
ibers of the audience, which is unfair to the

 

Courtesy Greenwich, Coma, Recreation Board

A mediaeval sport which has been given
a modern setting in many of our parks.

officials, which is unfair to the players, will not
win them the particular game, but may lose them

the opportunity of ever meeting that rival in the
game in the future.

The undergraduate publications should carry a
message of caution from time to time before the
games. The programs themselves should carry
a code of sportsmanship. You go into a theater
and you find out how to get out in case of a fire.
You go into a department store and fmd all sorts
of directions. There isn’t any reason why in a
program of an athletic event the code of sports-
manship shouldn’t be printed because there is an
immediate blow in it; it springs in at once. The
man who reads it is cautioned; he is on his guard.
Automatically he will carry in the back of his
head what was said in the code of sportsmanship
and he is apt to obey. And the man who obeys
the code of sportsmanship should not be afraid
to speak to the man alongside of him who violates
the code in the stands.

. . . Then I believe there should be in the
stands marshals and guards'as there are at all
great gatherings. I think if the first man who
threw a pop bottle or a cushion, or who yelled
an obscene remark at an ofhcial were caught by
the collar and thrown out of the stand so that the
rest of the company could see it, all those other
patriots who, with the protection of a ten-foot
wall before them, can yell at an official, and who
paid a dollar or two for a ticket, would want to
see the game through and not lose the dollar or

two or the opportunity to see the game. \Ve all
know the herd instinct. If it hurts the first man

(Continued on page 497)

.”

~-—n-

 

Valentine Party
Suggestions

HATEVER the origin of Valentine’s Day, it
has come to be one of the most festive of
our special days, le'nding itself to celebra-

tion by jolly parties and merry gatherings large
or small.

Decorations

(a

Red paper hearts and streamers hung in fes-
toons about the room and meeting in the center
where a large double heart is suspended, make an
attractive decoration. Red paper streamers about
five feet in length with a heart attached at each
end are laid over the hearts, one half hanging on
one side and the other half on the other. A large
sheet, decorated to represent a huge valentine, is
hung in the doorway. In the center of the valen-
tine is an opening large enough to permit of the
insertion of a hand.

Matching Partners

Matching Hearts. Each man is given two red
hearts numbered in duplicate. The girls are taken
to the room on the other side of the valentine
sheet formerly described. Each girl thrusts her
hand through the opening, while the boy stands

on the other side of the sheet and selects a hand

to which he passes one of his hearts. When all

hands have been chosen, the curtain is lifted and

the hearts matched.

Broken Hearts. .Red cardboard hearts are cut

in two jagged sections and a
line of verse is written on
each part. Partners are
matched by fitting the hearts
together and completing the
rhymes, which are read after
each couple has been formed.

Pulling Heart Strings. From
the hearts suspended in the
center of the room the boys

468

Like so many of our holiday and special
day observances, the origin of the pres-
ent day Valentine custom is shrouded in
mystery. One explanation connects the
modern celebration of the day with the
observance of the Roman festival, Luper—
calia, in February, which was celebrated
in honor of Pan and Juno. At this time,
so the story goes, each young man drew
from a box the name of the lady who was
to be his sweetheart for the year.

On February lllth many
merry parties will be given in
honor of this iolly old saint!

   
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
 
    
  
    

on one side and the girls on the other each
a streamer. The girl on one end and the b0
the other end of the same streamer be

partners.

Games

Black Heart. Hide hearts of assorted c
Most of the hearts are red, a few green, ‘
yellow, one is black and one blue. No info
tion as to the significance of the various col
given out until the hunt is over, but as so
the hearts have been found announceme
made as to what each color stands for. Red h
count one, green ones put the finder in debt
yellow ones put one on the list of those who
engage in some contest, the finder of the
heart is the winner of a prize, and the find
the black heart must pay some terrible forf

A Heart Question. The following que
are written on heart shaped cards and pass
the guest's to supply the missing words begi
with heart. A limit set is given for the con

Questions Answ
l. Cupid’s symbols 1. Hearts
2. How cupid greets you 2. Heartin
3. To be unsympathetic 3. Heartles
4. Where one might sit around 4. Hearth
5. What is caused by a heart«break 5. Heart—a
6. An uncomfortable feeling. 6. Heart-b
7. Distressing 7. Heartvr
8. What thought of love touches 8. Heart-s

Valentine Post Office
Each person is give
name of a city or town
person acts as “postm
who stands in the cen
the circle formed of
in which the others sit.
postman then says: “I
sent a valentine from.
to . . . . . ., whereupon

(Continued on huge

For a Washington's Birthday Party

Suggestions for celebrating one of the

festive occasions which February offers.

   
 
  
 
   
  
 

DECORATE for a George Washington party,
flags, red, white and blue festooning, cher-
ries and hatchets are effective. Hatchets on
and white streamers strung from various
rs in the room are grouped together in the
r below the chandelier. Included in the
ations are hatchets attached to the stream-
red for the girls and white for the boys.
e the hatchet for each boy is a question writ-

the circle. Each person is given a chance to guess
how many cherries are in the jar. A pencil and
paper are passed around with the jar. After
guessing each person writes down his answer and
passes the jar and pencil to the next person. The
person judging the nearest correct wins.

Historic Pictures. Each person is provided
with a pencil and paper. He is told to draw a

  
 
  
 

n a slip of paper inserted through the handle.
answer is to be found on a slip of paper in
andle of the girl’s hatchet. Each person
a hatchet and attempts to find the answer

picture representing some event in American
history. At the bottom of the picture the artist
writes the title of his picture but folds it under so
that nobody can see it. The pictures are then

the question. The players with the correct
ion and answer are partners.

passed to the right and recipients write their
guess as to the title upon the sheet. This is also
folded under and again the sheets are passed to
the right and the next person tries. This is re-
‘peated until the pictures arrive back to their cre-
ators, when the various guesses as to their‘ mean-
ing are read aloud.

  
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
  

iestions and answers such as the following
be used:

Question

ho was George Washington’s wife?
at river did Washington make famous?
en was George Washington first elected president?
at was Washington’s mother’s maiden name?
hat story is connected with the childhood of
Washington?
what year were the soldiers camped at Valley
Forge?
at Frenchman was an admirer of the Washingtons?
what year was Washington born?

Cherry Necklace Stringing. EaCh couple is
given a needle and thread. A large bowl of cran-

berries is placed on a table within easy reach of
everyone. The fun lies in seeing which couple
can form the longest necklace (by stringing the
cranberries) in the time allowed (two minutes).

Answer
rtha Washington. Flag RGIaY- Players are '
laware. . divided into two groups, each
9 For those who are looking for appro- group forming a circle. The

priate party suggestions and who have
not already had the material, the bul-
letin, "A Washington Party,” issued
by the Community Drama Service,
N. R. A., will be of interest. Colonial
pastimes are introduced with modern
games adapted for the occasion. There
-is also a charming shadow play, and
some brief playlets are included, to-
gether with directions for dancing the
Minuet and the Virginia Reel. Price,
25 cents.

ry Ball.

. captain of each team has a
ting down the tree.

small flag. On the signal the
captain passes the flag around
to her right three times. The
team which completes the
three rounds first wins the

game.

The Narrow Course. Two
cherries on a stem are drawn

( Continued on huge 498)
469

Games

rry Guess. A glass jar
with candy cherries or
rries is passed around

Bump-the-Bumps
Slide

By B. G. LEIGHTON

Director, Winter Sports and Recreation Division
Minnesota Arrowhead Association

A fun-provoking innovation

in winter sport faCIlItIes.

REPLETE With thrills and a variety of sliding,

 

. . There is a great variety of activitie
thoroughly sale for the nov1ce and yet full Bear Mountain’s winter. sports prom.

of challenges to the daring, is the “bump-
the-bumps” slide—an innovation in winter sports

recreation that is meeting with unusual popular— parks feature the bump-the-bUmps—a hig
ity and growing more attractive than toboggan— polished and fairly steep incline with numer
ing. It is simple and inexpensive in construction, and different sized bumps, ranging from three
requiring only water, snow, a few tools, labor, six inches in height. A padded canvas floor a
and a small slope. It allows large numbers to rubber bumpers at the bottom of the “bum
take part, and appeals to all age groups from eliminate the possibility of accidents. This .
four to sixty-four years, and is a laugh-provok— cessory also indicates the interest in sliding.
ing activity for those who partake as well as those The bump-the—bu’mps slide, which is a com
who look on. An experiment carried on for five nation and a modification of the amusement p
winters with such a slide has proven its worth bump-the-bumps and sliding on a small piece
and POPUIaTitY- ice, is from four to ten feet wide and from I
Sliding, while standing on a small slippery to 200 feet long. The sides slope outward, b
strip of ice on level ground seems to have an effect, and range from five to lifteen inches
unusual attraction for most children and many height. The slide on the slope is wavy, but Hat
adults. A slight slope or a the level. The surface of

terraced lawn that be mes , - .
C0 In the Decemberlssue of "Recreation" Sllde has Varying slopes

icy ofttimes is used as a slid— we presented suggestions {or the com tween approximately ten .

mg Place 3150- On SUCh 3» struction of toboggan slides supplied thirty degrees with the 51
slope the sliding is done both through the courtesy of Mr. Leighton. itself about 125 feet long
by standing up and by Sitting in this number a descriptionis given of An individual riding
down; sometimes a piece of BumP'the-bumPS, the newest mem-

ber of the winter sports Famil Th such a Slide can experienc
' ' Y' e . . . .
cardboard IS USCd to S“: on“ article is reprinted from the December vanety 0f kmds 0f Slldmg -'

certain Summer amusement issue of "Parks and Recreation.” thrills. A piece of cardbo

470

  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
    
   
    
  
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
 

. (from packing boxes),
, shovel, a piece of
a sheet of old tin and
material are used to
for the ordinary rides.
1 on ash can covers or
1d bottom pan, riders
in down the slide. A
of linoleum, wheat
cane seat for chair or
a cardboard will give
fast ride. “Belly- flop-
on a wheat sack filled
straw or hay gives an-
thrill. For the more
, and those who know
to fall, sliding while
ing up will give one a
'ng experience. An-
popular method is to
a “train” of riders—
vith arms around the waist of the
n in front. From five to ten riders
train” gives best results, though as
as hfty can form such a train. A long
ofttimes ends in a “monkey-pile” before
ing the slide—which adds to the fun.

cidents are practically negligible on the
-the-bumps. There is danger, however, for
erson who rides the slide alone while stand-
'ho does not know how to fall. Such per-
may sometimes fall backwards striking the
Consequently, standing while sliding
d be discouraged.

u construct the bump-the-bumps, certain pre-
ary matters should be taken into considera-
'n selecting the slide and in arranging for its
ruction. The following is a list of hints and
tions:

A hill with a gentle slope of about fifteen to
’ degrees, facing north or northeast, will
- an excellent site for a bump-the-bumps
and especially if it is adjacent to a body of

The space required is about 15 feet by 200
10 feet of width for the slide and 5 feet f0r
turn path or stairs.

Avoid having abrupt bumps and rough
ce.

Avoid straight sides-——shou1d be rounded and
bowl effect. °

 

Courtesy “Parks and Recreation”

At the winter sports center conducted
by the Hibbing Recreational Department.

BUMP-THE-BUMPS SLIDE 471

5. From five degrees to
twenty degrees is the best
temperature in which to
build the slide. However,
building can be done even in
twenty degrees below zero.

6. The surface must be
kept as smooth as glass.

The following is a list of
supplies that are needed in
constructing the bump-the-
bumps slide:

Three stable shovels, 100
feet to 450 feet one-inch
garden hose, one one-inch
garden hose nozzle, one pick-
axe, two galvanized pails,
one galvanized
wash tub, two
brooms, one tool

box, one brick-

layer’s trowel,
one sprinkling can, with a “fine” sprinkler, one
first aid kit, one hand ice scraper, one Whetstone.

.

How to Proceed in Constructing the “Bumps”

I. In selecting a site for the bump-the-bumps
slide it is essential to see that the slope has not too
steep a grade and that there is a fairly level sur-
face extending out from the foot of the slope.
The best location for such a slide is on the shore
of some lake or stream so that the surface of the
ice can be made a part of the slide.

2. The space required should be about 15 feet
by 200 feet—Io feet of the width for the slide
and 5 feet for the return path or steps.

3. Any depressions, humps, or boulders should
be left in the path of the slide to help form a
wavy surface.

4. Large logs and similar obstacles should be
placed at a slight angle across the slide. These
obstacles should not be placed too close to each
other allowing ample room for an easy, wavy
surface.

5. Excess snow along the path of the slide
should be eliminated and the remainder thor-
oughly sprinkled with water to give the slide a
solid base. Around the obstacles fill in with
heavy slush of snow and water eliminating all
abrupt bumps.

 

472 BUMP-THE-BUMPS SLIDE

6. Starting at the bottom of the slope and
working towards the top, cover the course with
slush two inches deep. Use a bricklayer’s trowel
to make surface as smooth as possible.

7. After the foundation has frozen solidly, and
starting froin the top of the hill, lay out a guide
line about 12 inches inside and from the left of
the slide and along the course. Use about 125
feet of shoemaker’s string and 60 penny nails.
Nails should be used as stakes and placed 25 feet
apart. The line will mark the left inside top edge
of the left side of the “bumps.”

8. Starting at the bottom of the slope and
working toward the top, build up a side for the
slide about 10 to 15 inches in height. This side
should have a slope outward and have a bowl
effect.

9. Build the side on the right of the slide so
that there will be approximately a IO feet trough
in which to slide. -

10. There should be no sides on the level
surface.

11. After the base and sides of the trough
have been built, eliminate all ice projections,
humps, and sharp edges. A hand ice scraper,
sharpened with a one—half inch bevel on one side
and one-eighth inch bevel on the other side, in
excellent for this process.

12. To give the iinal coatS‘
of glossy ice to the bump-
the-bumps, start at the top
and work to the bottom by
spraying water as fine and as
fast as possible over the en-
tire surface. It may be neces-
sary to repeat this process.
The spray should be so tine
that it freezes as soon as it
strikes the surface. Avoid
water running and collecting
in the hollows of the slide.

13. By scraping carefully
with the hand ice scraper,
remove all “pebbles.”

14. Sweep out the slide
thoroughly clean.

15. The final step is to
sprinkle the entire bump-the-
bumps with hot water as fast
as possible and by starting
at the top and working down.

 

Courtesy “Parks and Recreation”

l

  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

.
I
t

l

l

The sprinkler of the sprinkling can should c

sist of fine holes.
NOTE: If the water is too hot it will crack

surface. It should be so hot that it is just r
sible to put your finger in the water.

16. It is important that the surface of the ‘
on the out-run of the level ground is ke
level and smooth as possible.

17. When the path back to the top of
bump—the-bumps becomes packed down, steps
be readily built on the slope by the use of a s
or pick-axe. Small foot-holes can be chov
into the hardened snow. Where it is unus
steep, it might be well to build a stairway.

Suggestions for Care of “Bumps”

I. Inspect the slide each day for projecti
rough edges, or broken sections.

2. Heavy slush of snow and water mixed
pail or tub makes excellent material for patc

3. Use a hand ice scraper to cut off pr
tions, rough edges, humps, or rough surfaces

4. To compensate for the wear and tear on
bumps, it is well each day to sprinkle it wi
fine spray of water after the slide has been s
of snow and other foreign material. Scrape o '
“pebbles,” sweep clean, and then spray with “ '1
hot water.

5. Sections of the “bu
that are exposed to the '
or on warm days, can be
in condition by cove
with a thick blanket of s
pine branches, or gu
sacks, etc.

i
c
5

Instructions to Starte

I. You are the host. T
using the bump-the-b
are your guests. Co
quently your attitude
almost invariably dete
the attitude of the “gu
and will help to elimi
many problems of disci
A smile is contagious.

2. Enforce all rules "
ly and courteously.

3. Do not allow any
to use the bumps in a st

The “bump_the_bumpsn s'ide at ing position unless it is a “t
Ely, the first winter sports re- 0f iive or more-

sort in the Arrowhead district. ' (Continued on page 498)

  

This process improves and
toughens the sliding surface.

The
Plays

the
 Thing!

 
  
     
    

I of the playground activities

tributed to this drama program.
I

l-

N THE playground of Douglas, Arizona, we
decided to stress children’s drama for one
summer. We felt that the weekly play,
i rrelated with other activities, held great pos—
' ilities for creative recreation for the chil-
n. Moreover, we felt a special need that
rticular summer to draw the attention of
' community to its playground. Thus, drama
children became the center of our efforts.
he playground area was a part of the large
y park, and the average daily attendance,
. lusive of that for baseball, was about two
' ndred children. One director with a part
' 1e assistant was responsible for supervision,
mes, story hours, plays, handwork and all
er activities. Naturally the plays selected
re simple, for only a limited amount of the
ctor’s time could be given to group or in-
idual rehearsals. Funds were not too plen-
ul so there could be no elaborate costumes
settings. Many children wished to have
ts, so plays were selected which would per-
t of using groups of children.
In. Each Monday morning the cast for the
‘ ek’s play was selected from the children
' 0 were present at that time. Parts were
. ver given out before Monday morning.
' ere was only one hard and fast rule—a child

     
     
  
     
  
 

l

:J
I

   
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 

 

 

By MIRIAM CHURCHYARD

who had had. a leading part in one play must
take a minor part in all the others except the
final one. Any child who wished to be in the
play might have a part. Many of them had
never been in a play and they were eager to
be “in it.” Children were often selected be—
cause of their eagerness rather than because
of any pronounced ability—a reversal of play
casting principles, to be sure, but it was sur-
prising to see how many times children with
seemingly little ability arose to the occasion.
Latent imitative and dramatic ability was put
to use and the players developed a new poxjrer
within themselves. ’-
Each Friday morning, after five group res
hearsals, the play was performed out-of-doors
if the weather permitted. Three large, plain
screens set up among the trees furnished the
background and provided ample facilities for
stage entrances between them or around their
ends. Breathless behind the screens the play-
ers watched the audience gather and seat them-
selves on the grass. At a signal the play
started and the children went on as best they
could. Sometimes the plays were not as fin—
ished as we should have liked them to be;
sometimes they were far better than we
dreamed possible. Recreation, not a super-

473

474 THE PLA Y’S THE THING!

finished product, was our aim. The joy of the
children and the parents was well worth it all.
\Vhen at the conclusion of each play the name
of the next was announced, “Can I be in it?”
was chorused from the children in the audience.

Correlating Playground Activities

In planning the play we kept in mind the
importance of correlating as far as possible all
play activities. Such correlation, we found,
developed in all the children an appreciation
of the work of the players and gave many
children an opportunity to help. Because most
of the children watched the play rehearsals,
we started our correlative work in the story
hour that was held three mornings a week.
Patriotic stories were used with the “Old
Glory” pageant which we developed as an
Americanization project for our large Mexican
population. \Vhen King Dirty Face ruled
“Calico Land” stories of cleanliness were in
order. The “Sing-a-Song” who solved the
problem of a “won’t-go-to-bedder” called for
health stories of another sort. An almost lim—
itless number of stories could have been used
With theyf‘Elf King” and the “Wishing Hut”
for they were plays of elves and fairies. The
week of the Japanese play was one made joy-
o‘us by the use of Japanese pictures, poetry,
folk lore and the reading of other plays. The

a 

“Enchanted Door” was full of stories to
told. This play helped to increase man
child’s range of reading for himself also. 0
the children brought in story material rela
to the week’s program.

Some of the plays needed music, either .
accompaniments for songs and dances o ‘
help in the mood of the play. Our only ins
ment, a tiny portable phonograph, was 11
A rhythm band with kettle lids, woo
blocks, bells, and “what-have-you,” someti
beat out the rhythm as the record was pla
Songs used in school were worked into p
often as a substitute for those less well kno
Occasionally a child musician served.

Dancing groups often added to the effec
the plays and made places for more play
Folk games were used. Every effort
made to keep this dancing very simple .
easy to execute. This practice was conli
to the dancing period. I

The handc‘raft period allowed us the gr
est amount of correlative oportunities.
appreciation work of the story hours, the
sic and the dancing periods, led to crea
thinking. In the handcraft period there

I

l
l
u

l

A curtain on which they had fastened leave
served the children of 0 Bronx (New York City
playground as the background for their play

 

 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 

ative doing. Many original suggestions
ie from the children and were used where-
r possible in the work of the play. \Ve
ed them to draw illustrations, to work out
es in miniature and make illustrative

.ters.

n this period the costumes and properties
e prepared. All the children were inter-
d but none were obliged to help. Indeed,
eager were they to help that there were
es when it was difficult to find work for
m all. Even visiting mothers became so en-
ssed with our preparations that they helped
many an hour. A group of older girls
1nd their niche here in the handcraft room.
was a happy time, so much so that it was
en difficult to insist that the work be put
de for the day when closing time came.

repe paper was used for many of the cos-
nes, the brown capes for the elves, the arm
. head bands with floating streamers for
Jewels, the ruffled anklets for the dancers,
d the wide sashes for other players. Un-
ached muslin dyed the requisite colors
ved varied needs. Once servitors’ jackets
muslin dyed scarlet were a coveted posses-
n. Chaps for the cowpunchers, suits for the
ians and hunters dyed brown and slashed
the edges were realistic. So the days went.
dges to be made of construction paper, red,
'te and blue for the players in “Old Glory”!
h splashing of paint when the stick candy
. made for the “Wishing Hut”! Such ex-
menting to make paper look like a bonbon!
iskers for the elf! Red draperies for the

\Vitch! Stilts for the Washing Man!
mbers on the hats for the Hours! Guns
'ed from wood and holsters fashioned from
r tubes for the coxvpunchers! Garments
e altered! Anything! Everything! It’s
or the play!

The Final Play

or only one play, the final “Toy Pageant,"
- we construct a background other than the
ens. For this it was necessary to have a
e clock face through which the “Hours”
ht enter and leave. A child’s ingenuity
ed to solve the problem. A white curtain
ut twenty feet square with clock numbers
n feet in height was made to hang between
0 trees. A slit in the center allowed the
ldren to make an entrance rather high above

THE PLA Y’S THE THING! 475

the audience and come down steps to the grass
where the performance was given. Children
who served well in the summer’s plays were
honored with responsible places in this. It
was our one evening play. With the flood-
lights, gay costumes, dancing and music, it
was a gala affair for the closing week.

Publicity for the play in the form of posters
and invitations was another part of the hand—
work correlation. Posters were placed on the
bulletin boards, on the grounds and in the win-
dows of the downtown stores. Even though
the posters were large, the printing and the
designing were done by the children. Often-
times one child would have the idea for the
poster which would be executed by a child
with more ability as a designer. We tried to
keep the invitations the simplest of all the
handwork so the littlest folks might help.
Construction paper was torn across the nine—
inch end into strips several inches wide. Some
little device representative of the week’s play
was placed on the outside. For “Calico Land”
it was simply a torn square of cloth pasted
with its point to the edge of the paper. In-
side was typed line of invitation, giving date.
place and name of play. These invitations were
sometimes distributed by the children; occa-
sionally the stores included them in their out-
going packages. Many a little child who
worked on invitations was proud to have
helped.

Our audience increased in number from the
first group of six mothers and a few children
to hundreds of parents and children. Manx:
children came to see the plays and later be-
come interested who would not have come
otherwise. Increased attendance among the
adults meant increased interest in the com—
munity in the work of the civic recreation pro—
gram. As our attendance grew we followed
the play with other activities, story hours and
contests, typical of our endeavors. The citizens
now had a chance to see all phases of the work
and to realize something of the values which the
local recreation movement was seeking to create
and foster through the program carried on from

day to day.

Yes, the “Play’s the Thing” when it helps
to center the interest of a community on its

civic playground.

porch and sit beneath the
old apple tree, if you would

Ye Old Stocking
Puppet ’

By MYRTLE M. BRIDGE

" H, HEAR yel Oh, hear
0 ye! The puppet show
is about to begin. Puppetmomes

Proceed to the corner of the '"to “is 0w" 'n
a summer camp.

hear the 01d puppet show. Oh, hear ye! Oh,
hear ye!”

Thus passed the crier through the camp gather-
ing in his wake the howling, boisterous young-
sters 0f the East Side who left their ball games
ever eager to hear the folk tale in puppets.

Now it so happened in Clark Camp we had a
number of the old hand carved wooden Guinol
puppets, with which I played “Ye Old Punch
and Judy Show” to merry laughter and spinal
thrill delights, as the devil drags Punch to the
flames. Up the stairs to bed marched the refrain:

“I’ve killed my baby,
I’ve killed my Wife,
I’ve killed the policeman too-oooo-oooo,
And I’ll kill you-ooo-oooo-oo.

So the puppets came to camp to stay.

“You played Punch, didn’t you, Bridgy ?”
“How could you get your voice so high and
funny?” “Would you like to try?” A chorus of
“Yes’es !” Out comes the box of Guinol puppets,
under the shade of the old apple tree. To the
group of children sitting there behind a bench
I explain the magic manipulation of a hand pup-
pet. The first finger is your head, the thumb one
hand, the middle finger the other. N ow you are
ready to try and make your puppet come to life.
And quicker than you or I could say, “Jack Rob—

476

 

Q. '
 ,7 v -

There is a very real satisfaction
making and operating your own pup

   
 
    
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
    
   
   
  

inson!” Ye Old Punch began to shout for p
and quiet from the plagues of domesticity, w
the baby cried and Judy insisted that Punch nu
it until she returned from shopping. VVhereu
Punch proceeded with great gusto to spank
baby, Whose shrieks became yells, which dr
poor Punch to throw it out the window. V
all the thrill of a Daily News did Punch proc
deeper and deeper into his murderous life ;.
singing:
“I’ve killed my baby,
I’ve killed my wife,
And I’ll kill youtoo-ooo—oo.”

 

until the remarkable “fee, fie, f0 fum” devil
peared, with a branch of the old apple tree
a pitch fork, and dragged Punch off to bur
burn—burn. The puppet company was for

“Can we make our own puppets to take hom
was the next step. “My Own-self from Jac
More English Fairy Tales, having been selec
and dramatized, out came ye old stocking bag .
“cotton battin’ ” for the stuffin’.

The old Guinol puppets with their exaggera
features lent themselves for excellent models. 3
“cotton-battin’ ” is molded by the children into
egg—shape, large or small according to the c
acters. Then, with a big eyed needle and he
cotton the eye sockets are drawn in half— -
from the top of head to chin. The nose is sha
by adding more “cotton-battin’ ” making
stocking project, and tacking it to form a cha
t’er nose. Likewise, the cheeks and chin take t
thinness by our adding or illuminating the cot

  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
    
    
   
   
 
 
  
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
  

‘ow, a hole the size of your finger is made in
head and a stiff card-board neck to fit the fin-
is sewed in, and to this the chin and back of
1 are fastened. Large colored beads make
eyes and show card colors give the needed tint
' character lines to the faces. The wigs are
r “cotton-battin’” shaped as grey hair or
us colored sweater yarns plaited or bobbed.
in “ye old scrap bag” comes a simple sack,
iing the body the front of which is dressed
t the part.

i hen the child is too small to make a stocking
d a ten-cent doll’s head may be substituted.

here is always some child in the group who
1 handle ten-cent water colors and draw de-
13 for back-drops. These can be painted on
ite, blue and grey cambric, with show card
rs to which a little glue has been added, so
t the colors will stand up better on the material.

ld waste baskets have odds and ends of col-
1 paper and cardboard
es, in which a child rum-
ing can get materials
properties of stdols, beds,
es and dressers. The
e can be constructed out of any old lumber.

good proscenium for child is 24 inches wide
20 inches high. A simple frame should be
de with the Hoor depth about 8 inches. Two
- wings 12 inches each should be attached to
h side of the proscenium arch. Put across
top of these wings two hooks to hold the cur-
rods, on which the back-drops are hung.

f you are besieged with the fear that the pro-
will not come up to a high art standard, you
right. Any such attempt is, in my opinion,
great failure in the use of puppets with chil-
The old puppets were made to act and
dren love playing people with their dolls. So
, start with the development of art puppets?
y not let the drama speech and body co-
ination grip the child first and then inspire
to take a longer time and model from clay,
harder papier mache’ or plastic wood faces.

he real value of puppets for a child lies in the
that the project is small enough for him to
' with from every angle, giving him ample
rtunity to project his ideas to others without
-consciousness. \Vith the hand puppets a child
play the whole show himself or two children

6

You can tell just by the back of their
heads how much they are enjoying it all!

YE OLD STOCKING PUPPET 477

can play four characters admirably. He uncon-
sciously lets each hand represent a character and
changes his voice to suit the part.

Two leaders in our group after two weeks of
camp were writing their own play of a little girl
and her mother, which beautifully betrayed the
child’s dreams of staying up late, indifference to
spanking and the fears and lonesomeness of the
dark. They had unusual rhythm of line which
came perhaps unconsciously from so much dra-
matization of the folk tale.

Then let us give the child the opportunity to
gain rhythm and co-ordination through working
the simply made puppet leading on to develop-
ment, which surely comes, rather than tiring the
child with a long drawn out period of making art
puppets with never time to actually play at mak-
ing them talk and act. A hand puppet can walk,
pick up things and really give an excellent illusion
of acting. The pause and exaggerated gesture are
most effective and take time
and practice in actual man-
ipulation to acquire. I have
found that as the child be-

comes a better puppeteer he

 

also lengthens his scenes, adding real dramatic
climaxes.

Non-z: Anyone wishing further information may se-
cure it by addressing Miss Bridge in care of the Depart-
ment of Speech, Hunter College. New York City.

 

Making the Library a Recreation Center

By
G. R. MCCORMACK

George Rogers Clark
School

Vincennes, Indiana

How a library made
citizenship train-
ing genuine play!

§ HA5 BRIKE

SENATOR

Helena 0i 5mm 
vacuum

Tom Sane
Wit PBESID’

 ‘HUCKLEBEREY HHN

' GOVEliNllli

1TH so many fami~
W lies finding the usu-

al summer vacation
away from home an im-
possibility, local recrea-
tion centers this year were
faced with greatly increased enrollments at a time
when their allowances had been seriously reduced.
To provide worthwhile recreation under such
conditions meant that new methods of employing
available materials must be found, and new incen-
tives for their use devised.

It was to meet such a situation that the public
library of Vincennes, Indiana, under the super-
vision of Miss Jane Kitchell, librarian, and the
library staff, sponsored a summer reading project
so unique and timely as to attract national atten-
tion in library and educational circles.

For the past few years the Vincennes library
has sponsored a vacation period reading project,
employing various incentives to stimulate the
reading of good books by school children. This
year, being presidential election year, it was de-
cided that the reading project should follow the
general line of early training in citizenship and
that the children should learn by actual experi—
ence. With that idea in mind the library staff

478

Making the costumes and posters was part of
fun in this exciting campaign for favorlte boo

prepared attractive booklets listing in simpl
terms local, state and national officers, along \\
their principal duties and manner of electi
These booklets were distributed to the child
for examination, with the purpose of teach
them, through actual participation and while t
were having fun, just how a public officer
nominated and elected and what his responsib
ties are.

To keep the project non-partisan and imp
sonal, the children were encouraged, during
reading period, to select' the books they most
joyed, and at a nominating convention conduc
under state convention rules to nominate th
books for election to office. Thus books w
to be candidates for the various offices. In n
inating a book for an office the delegates to
convention were required to make a nominat
speech telling why they preferred their nomi
and what special qualifications he had for
oflice. Attractive posters made by the child

 

 

 

   
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
  

n effort to solicit support for their favorite
' were displayed in and about the library
h in the manner of a regular soliciting cam-
n. \Vith the nominations passed, soliciting
votes began in earnest, continuing through
'on day. To add color to the campaign, songs
written about the books and set to music,
(ch candidate had a melodious glee club to
er its interests.

preparation for election day the children
required to determine, by inquiry among
nd county officers and former election offi-
the exact manner in which an election is
ucted under state law, and every election
r, from poll clerks to sheriff, was chosen in
er prescribed by law.

ith the registering of voters a problem arose
i a little girl was found not to be a citizen
e state, (library), because she had just re-
, moved to the city and had not taken out

ship papers in form of a library card. After
iining the exact procedure in naturalization
:; h the judge, and substituting days for the
r of years required to attain citizenship,
rl was naturalized and given her citizenship
5. She was then permitted to register and
te.

election day the library was turned into a
ation voting center with ropes, booths and
' pencils.” Every officer called for by law
on hand to see that all election laws were
y enforced. Enthusiastic workers were pres-
e challenge the eligibility of doubtful voters.
registration clerks saw that everyone regis—
was brought to the polls to vote. Large
posters explained the laws of the State of
1a regarding elections and gave instructions
w to mark a ballot properly. Regular ballots
used and usual procedure in marking them
bserved. In counting the ballots the election
ls were allowed to use their own judgment
ling mutilations and similar matters.

returns of the national
11 showed that Rebeca:
nybroolc Farm had been
1 president: Tom Saw-
'ce—president; Pinocchio,
ntative, and Huckle-
Finn, senator. In the

nd local elections Peter
, Willie Mouse. Little

During'the past'summer ingenuity and
resourcefulness have in many commun—
ities been substituted for the funds
usually available. And because of this
many of our recreation programs have that the children appeared
been vitalized and enriched with new
projects. Here is the story of a public
library which used ingenuity in meeting
depression problems.

MAKING THE LIBRARY A RECREATION CENTER 479

Red Hen, Gingerbread Man, Snnbonnet Babies,
Ot-erall Boys, Hans Brinker and Humpty Dmnpty
were victorious. With the announcement of the
election, Mayor Joseph Kimmel invited the newly
elected to come to his office and assume their
duties.

\Vith the election past, a grand celebration and
“love feast” was planned. Every child who had
qualified as a voter by reading and reporting on
at least ten books, was eligible to march in the
parade. Accordingly, more than six hundred
children in costumes representing some favorite
book character which they had made as part of
the project, assembled and marched through the
principal streets of the town. The parade was
headed by an old-time torch light procession, and
each child carried an imitation torch made of red
paper fastened to a long stick. Immediately fol-
lowing the torch bearers came a drum corps, then
the Mayor’s car in which Peter Rabbit rode with
the City Mayor. The city provided a motor escort
and halted traffic while the children passed. At
each corner the parade halted while some enthu—
siastic “politician” mounted a keg, in lieu of the
conventional stump, and proclaimed to the crowd
the virtues of the victorious candidates. The
parade finally arrived at the library where a bal-
loon ascension and a grand feast of ice cream

cones ended a perfect day.

In evaluating the project it is interesting to see
how many recreation fields were touched. In
giving the oral reports of the books read—story-
telling; in writing the songs and setting them to
music—music; in making the posters—art; m
the making of the costumes—designing; in the
reading of good books—everything. The fact that
the children liked to do the thing and derived

pleasure in so doing justifies the project even
were one to disregard the educational value of

their training in citizenship and cooperation.
Little Thelma Newton, judged the champion

reader of the summer, walked three miles daily
to get the two hundred and

seventy-two books she read

and reported on orally.
So much interest was shown

in the project by educators

twice before the summer high
school and before the univer-

sity classes.

Volunteer Leadership
in the

Recreation Movement

in the United States volunteer leadership

played a very important part. A large num-
ber of recreation systems owe their existence to
the work of volunteer associations of citizens who
undertook and carried forward the preliminary
educational work, raised funds, served on com—
mittees, and in many ways worked to establish
recreation service on a permanent basis as a pub-
lic function. As the service in an increasing
number of cities reached the objective of mu-
nicipal functioning and employed workers in-
creased, a number of the citizens instrumental in
having the work taken over by the city were ap-
pointed to membership on the recreation com-
missions or boards created, and the numerous as—
sociations of citizens tended to dissolve.

At the present time, however, with the prob-
lems which recreation departments are facing in
the depression, there is a distinct need for such
volunteer associations or committees as existed
in the early days of the movement to stand back
of the municipal body to help in safeguarding
budgets and in interpreting the movement to the
public. A number of such groups, generally
known today as recreation councils, are in exist—
ence in a number of cities and are giving inval-
uable service in the present crisis.

The services which hundreds of men and
women are giving without financial'compensation
on boards, commissions, advisory councils and on
committees which in many instances are func-
tioning in much the same way as municipal
boards, is recognized as one of the most vital
volunteer services in the recreation field, and in
this capacity volunteers have proved their worth.

IN THE beginning of the recreation movement

Volunteers in the Activities Prog mm
A few departments make large use of men and
women of like tastes and interests on committees

480

"The key to the successful develop-
ment in leisure time activities through
volunteer leadership is to be found in
the existence of an adequate number
of paid and trained leaders of organiz-
ing ability and inspirational power, who
provide dynamic power and the sound
guidance which is indispensable."

to sponsor the particular type. of activity in w
they are especially interested. Thus there ma
a music committee, a drama committee, a c
dren’s play committee, a nature study commit
an athletic committee subdivided into sev
committees, an art committee and others, e
group being responsible for the development 0
particular phase of the program. This use of
unteers accomplishes a double purpose: First
results in mobilizing the skill, intelligence, f0
and power of a specially interested group in
development of a particular part of the progra
second, through the combined association of
such committees there is built up a large gr
of citizens trained to stand back of the dep
ment and its program as a whole.

With the present economic situation there i
tremendous need for the services of volunte
qualified to direct recreational activities of
kinds. Without funds to pay the workers nee
to meet increased demands, recreation departme

One of the many playground activities in
which volunteers may give eftective help.

 

VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP IN THE RECREATION MOVEMENT 481

are turning more and more to the volunteer
leader, and recreation executives are facing the
necessity for selecting and training these volun-
teers and for placing them in positions
I where they will perform the most effec-
tive service.

I In every community there are young
people and adults who have experience in
various phases of recreation or who have
native abilities which through training

may be made to count in volunteer leadership.

It should be the duty of every recreation ex-
cutive to have made an inventory of the talent

‘- available in his community. This inventory would

comprise a listing and card indexing of every in-
dividual trained in oneior more particular skills
" which might make them useful as leaders in a

I recreation program. Such a list might" include all

persons who have:

Knowledge and skill to lead in children’s plays
and games.

   
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
  

Ability in athletic games and sports for young
people and adults who would act as organizers of
. teams or leagues, or as instructors, officials, life
' guards, and swimming instructors.

A sufficient knowledge of music to make them
useful as community song leaders or as organ—
izers or leaders of orchestras, bands, choruses or
. some other form of musical organization.

 A sufficient knowledge of drama to enable them
to act as directors of plays; to conduct play read-
o ing groups; to design and make costumes; to de-

sign and paint scenery.
Ability to tell stories.

Ability to act as instructors in some form of
handcraft.

Skill in teaching some form of dancing.

 

Reports From many cities tell of the valuable
service volunteers are giving in the emergency.

Ability to instruct in some branch of graphic
and plastic arts.

Ability to coach a debating team.
Ability to act as hostesses and social leaders.

Knowledge of some phase of nature study and
ability to impart their knowledge in an interest-
ing manner as leaders of nature study groups, or
to give independent lectures on some phase of the
natural sciences or trips they have taken. Vol-
unteers may also be used to great advantage as
leaders of hikes and charters of trails.

Many volunteers may be enlisted to work in
general projects, such as Christmas toy shops
where they collect toys, recondition them, make
up bundles and distribute the toys.

Sources of Volunteer Leadership

There are a number of sources and groups
from which these individuals may be drawn. A
few of them follow:

M e m b e r s of parent-teacher associations,
churches, men’s and women’s clubs, and civic and
social organizations of all kinds.

College graduates who may be without posi-
tions.

Former employed playground workers.

———_-—__—.

482 VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP [N THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

Older boys and girls
on the playgrounds who,
with some training, may
become effective assist-
ants.

Older Boy .S cont 5,
Girl Scouts, Camp Fire
Girls and Junior League
members.

Individuals who have
passed the Red Cross
Life Saving tests for
volunteer service at

beaches and swimming pools.
Members of local branches of the storytelling

league, of musical, dramatic and athletic organi-
zations.
Teachers, particularly special teachers of phy~
sical education, drama, music and nature study.
Undergraduates of physical education schools.
Parents of playground children.
Unemployed individuals.

Enlisting Volunteers

Experience has shown that in all probability the
best way of securing leaders is through personal
contact, through interesting individuals in giving
their services for an activity in which they are
particularly interested and for which they have
had training, and through appeals to organiza-
tions. Frequently volunteers apply on their own
initiative or through the urging of friends. News-
paper appeals are sometimes used, though many
feel this is not an entirely satisfactory method.
A common method in use is to select workers
from those attending training institutes to which
community groups send representatives.

One interesting method is followed by the
recreation executive in Plainfield, New Jersey,
who makes it a point to glance through the ac-
counts of meetings of various local organizations,
and if he sees the name of anyone who has made
a particularly helpful contribution to the meet-
ing he notes the individual’s name and address on
a card, the name of the organization and possibly
a note regarding his interest as shown by his
comment.

In connection with volunteer leadership in Bos—
ton, Massachusetts, Community Service of Bos-
ton, Inc., has organized a special volunteer service
bureau to operate as a definite part of the Boston
Boys’ Work Conference. Through the bureau
many volunteers are assigned to aid local agencies.

To Maize Volunteer Service Effective

(I) Volunteers must be enlisted and selected with
the some care with which paid workers are chosen.

(2) There should be required of the volunteers a
certain amount of training and reading.

(3) Each volunteer should be carefully adapted
to the service he can best perform.

(14) As a rule all volunteers should be brought to-
gether in the same kind of group organization in
order to provide for advoncementin their field of
service, and most important of all, to keep Up
their interest and enthusiasm.

lege authorities cooperate by setting aside dehni
periods for these interviews and bringing togeth

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 

The executive of th
Community Service 0
Boston, interviews stu
dents at Boston Uni
versity and Massach
setts Institute of Tec
nology and selects thos
he feels have a contrib
tion to make as volu
teers, assigning them t
duty with local agencie
which have requeste
volunteer help. The co

students who are interested.

How Volunteers Are Helping

In the Leadership of Activities

In many cities volunteers helped last summ
0n the playgrounds, at bathing beaches and othe
play centers. In a number of communities plan
are under way, or have already been put in opera
tion, for leadership at winter centers. A few ex-
amples of past achievements, current undertak—
ings and future plans, will show something of the
types of services which volunteers are carrying
on.

Experienced Workers Help
In a number of cities the volunteers were for-

merly workers whose interest in the program with
which they had been associated was so keen that
they were willing to work without compensation.
Houston, Texas, for example, last summer had
on its volunteer staff five former full time work-
ers who gave their services during the entire play-
ground season. With added supplemental volun—
teer service and a budget one-fourth the size i
was a year ago, the department maintained to:
more playgrounds than it had operated tl
previous year.

In Pittsfield, Massachusetts, experienced wor
ers who had formerly served on the playgrou
contributed their services for one week and we
paid for one week on a greatly reduced basis. I
\Vebster four playgrounds and a beach wel
operated by volunteers. Some of these worker
had been employed on the grounds the previo
year. Four Eagle Scouts who volunteered the'
services worked most effectively at the beach.

In \Vilmington, Delaware, as a means of meet-
ing the leadership problem resulting from .

:reduced budget, every member of the staff vol-
unteered some extra hours in order that the play-
grounds might be kept open in the morning, as
Iurell as in the afternoon and evening. Former
employed workers volunteered to take charge of
the community center activities in Cincinnati and
Canton, Ohio, when funds had been exhausted.
The winter social center program, boys’ and
girls’ clubs and gymnasium classes will be car-
ried on this winter in Springfield, Massachusetts,
because orchestras, floor directors, door keepers,
gymnasium instructors and school janitors have
volunteered their services for a twelve week

 

tailed and a number of centers will be temporarily
abandoned, but many thousands of boys, girls and
adults will enjoy social center activities because
' of the interest, enthusiasm and devotion of a
large group of volunteers. These volunteers are
. signing enlistment blanks drafted in much the
same way as a regular enployment contract.

Volunteers from Local Groups

In a number of cities local organizations play
an important part in the successful functioning
of the play centers under volunteer leadership.
Akron, Ohio, is one of the outstanding examples.
Here the Parent-Teacher Association Council
took charge of assigning their members as vol-

Conrtesy Recreation Commission, San Francisco

VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP IN THE RECRElTIUN .llt'Nilz'JHiXT 483

unteers for definite hours and definite pieces of
work, and for providing substitutes when regu-
lar volunteers Could not serve. The Akron Story
League put on regular periods of storytelling,
some older Girl Scouts helped in games, and a
good many mothers gave valuable service with
younger children in group games, storytelling and
simple handcraft. Three hundred and forty-two
periods of volunteer service were given. In this
same city the high school director of music as a
volunteer conducted a playground band of 86
members. At Steubenville and Canton, Ohio,
volunteers with Red Cross certificates helped in
supervising swimming pools.

Last summer 54 playgrounds were opened for
the first time in Oklahoma City under leadership.
Six of these grounds were conducted entirely by
volunteer leadership furnished by the Recreation
Council composed of all the character-building
agencies of the community. A different agency
in the‘ Council assumed the responsibility for
training and furnishing leadership for each
ground.

In Shreveport, Louisiana, the Parent-Teacher
Association “matched” the city by raising an ad-
ditional $500 for the summer playgrounds pro-
vided the city made an additional appropriation

Many mothers are giving effective leadership
in playground activities for little children.

 

In.

 

484 VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP IN THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

t.
I
i
l
l
l.
l
;
l

l"

Courtesy Board of Recreation C ommissianers, Bloomfield, N. I.

of a similar amount. Besides raising the money
the Parent-Teacher Association Council as-
signed on schedule two volunteer workers to as-
sist the paid worker on each of the gounds. These
volunteers were always on duty at the time as-
signed or furnished substitutes.

Some of the volunteers who helped on the
Columbus, Ohio, recreation program included an
experienced colored worker who gave full time,
a group from the storytellers’ league who served
for definite periods on the grounds, and eight
young men from the Y. M. C. A. who assumed
definite responsibility in connection with ath-
letics. -T he Mayor thanked these volunteers by
letter at the end of the season.

Board Members and Playground Graduates Serve

Members of recreation commissions and boys
and. girls who had graduated from the play-
grounds were equally willing to serve. Each
member of the Park and Recreation Commission
of Chicopee, Massachusetts, personally took
charge of a playground, using as assistants peo-
ple receiving financial aid from the local relief
body. In Marlboro, eight volunteers who had had
previous experience served under the leadership
of a member of the Recreation Commission and
a paid worker furnished by her.

The play streets in York, Pennsylvania, origi-
nating from the playground program, were con-
ducted by boys and girls, high school graduates,
in some instances unemployed, who had attended
the playgrounds. In Somerville, Massachusetts,

 

 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

fourteen young people who h
grown up on the playgrounds work
as volunteers.

The Volunteer and Social Recreati

Social recreation is one of the a
tivities in which volunteers are hel
ing most‘ effectively. In Evansvill
Indiana, practically the entire soci
recreation program is conducted u
volunteers. In Omaha, Nebraska, .
outstanding program in social recr
tion is being conducted. Last -.
volunteer leaders numbered abo
110 people recruited from the Ame
ican Legion, churches, parent-teac
er associations and recreation age
cies. These individuals, who we
trained in an institute covering
period of six weeks, were organized in teams s
ten with a captain, a song leader and a pianis
Throughout the winter these groups served t i
Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A. , park field houses an
community buildings, school buildings and su
rounding rural communities. Many of th
workers, instead of devoting two nights a wee
to volunteer service as they had pledged to d
gave three and four nights to the work. The
used their own cars for which they supplied th
gasoline, while the American Legion furnishe
the equipment. Much of the success of the pl
it was felt, was due to the fact that a paid ex
ecutive was employed through whom the team
were assigned and with whose help program
were planned and executed. This winter a sec
ond institute will be held and the program wi
continue on an increased scale.

An unusual development in the use of volun
teers, known as the Leisure Hour Club Mov
ment, is under way in Indianapolis, Indian
under the leadership of a volunteer, a publi
spirited business man, and with the cooperatio
of 48 agencies working under the sponsorship o
the Council of Social Agencies. The active 0
ganization work will be directed by an executi
committee of about twenty individuals made u
of professional workers and an equal number 0
influential laymen. This committee will organi
general committees to develop programs alon
the line of their particular interests. The mu51
committee, for example, will find talented peop
capable of putting on good programs and wi
arrange for the use of their services. In additio

    
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
 

. these program committees there will be neigh-
rhood committees made up of representatives
f local organizations who will find usable centers
(1 club rooms, discover latent talent, promote
tendance and act as hosts. A number of weekly
itertainments have thus far been put on and ten
nters definitely secured. The purpose of the
ovement, as stated, is “to find the means by
hich neighbors can get together as individuals
(1 families for simple, wholesome pleasures
hich bring release from the incessant burden of
rry and care.”

Many other instances might be cited and many
ore cities mentioned. Those quoted are typical
I the services which thousands of volunteers are
'ving at playgrounds, community centers and
mp5, and in the organi-
tion of activities of all
'nds.

lunteer Leadership in
ministrative Groups

While volunteer leader-
ip of activities is prov-
; most important in the
esent crisis, it is impos-
ble to overemphasize the
lue of the volunteer lead-
ship given on boards and
mmissions, and through volunteer associations.
In spite of the fact that almost an entirely new
creation commission was appointed last year at
ouston, Texas, the interest and enthusiasm of
is group has been so successfully enlisted that
stead of being abolished as was planned as an
ergency measure, the department will probably
ceive next year an appropriation twice its pre-
t size. Other volunteers from the outside were
listed at a crucial period in the work of the de-
rtment to speak before local groups and secure
ir support. In a campaign for broader sup-
rt of recreation from municipal funds waged
Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, most of the
hting unit” are volunteers and people whom
community program has vitally touched in
me way. Such interpretations of the work of a
reation department to the public have been
e of the most valuable services of volunteers.

A city in Texas which is not in favor of using
lunteers as activities leaders because of the dif-
ulties involved, has one of the strongest vol-
teer recreation boards in that part of the coun-
, and were it not for the constant alertness,

The whole question of the value of volun-
teer service is a general one. Probably of
the most immediate importance is the fact
that it enables the conduct of a wider pro-
gram and makes it possible to reach more
people. But for the long look it is educat-
ing supporters for the recreation movement
locally as well as nationally, and a given corps
of devoted volunteers makes for continuity
in changing executive leadership and chang-
ing conditions. Futhermore, it is a form of tee, to secure additional
life insurance in times of budget distress."

VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP IN THE RECREATION MOVEMENT 485

understanding and zeal of this board in inter-
preting the department to the public the recrea-

tion program would probably have been abolished
as an economy measure.

A Setting Up the Machinery

Careful planning and organization are essen-
tial if volunteer leadership is to be effective, and
in back of the successful campaign to secure and
train leaders are to be found committees and
other functioning groups.

In New Bedford, Massachusetts, where funds
were available for only a few paid leaders, a
definite organization was set up to secure volun-
teer leaders and to assure the conduct of summer
playgrounds. A general citizens’ play center com-
mittee was organized com-
posed of representatives of
v a r i o u s organizations—
business, professional, civic
and social service. This
committee was divided into
subcommittees as follows:
Personal committee, in
charge of securing volun-
teers; equipment commit-

equipment through dona-
tions, if possible; activities
committee, to aid in making up a program, and
ways and means committee to raise the necessary
funds with which to pay the salaries of two em-
ployed supervisors—one a man and one a woman
—who had general charge of all playgrounds and
organized and directed the work of volunteer
leaders.

At the beginning of the season 125 women and
100 men had volunteered for service. These came
from the ranks of former playground leaders out
of employment, members of women’s clubs and
similar organizations, school teachers, and unem-
ployed nurses.

In Cleveland, Ohio, the Mayor has appointed a
committee of volunteers known as the Recreation
Committee, to provide a program for the unem-
ployed. The use of school facilities has been
secured in a number of districts, and entertain-
ments are being given by thousands of volun-
teers. The work is carried on through a large
number of subcommittees in each district who
are in charge of the programs.

Resourcefulness and ingenuity have an im-
portant part to play. This was well illustrated in

486 VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP IN THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

Niagara Falls, New York, where no provision
was made in the budget last summer for chil-
dren’s playgrounds. The Recreation Commis-
sion, an adjunct of the Park Commission, and a
number of leading citizens determined that in
spite of lack of public funds the playgrounds
must be kept open under the general direction of
the superintendent of recreation employed by the
Park Commission. The Board of Directors of
the Beeman Foundation agreed to supply the
superintendent of recreation with one assistant,
a man, and three trained supervisors, two women
and one man. The director of the Work Bureau,
the city’s relief agency, provided the superintend-
ent of recreation with lists of families receiving
relief and permitted him to select from these fam—
ilies the member who in his judgment was best
equipped to serve on the playground. Through
this source a corps of 48 leaders was secured and
given a short course of instruction for two days
prior to the opening of the playground. While
these leaders were paid by relief funds and can-
not technically be called volunteers, the plan rep-
resented an ingenious method for keeping the
playgrounds open. Twelve grounds were operated
for ten weeks.

Training Volunteers

Some volunteers are already prepared, in part
at least, with natural hobbies or skill, some with
past training in recreation, physical education or
teaching fields. On such previous training and
experience the degree of effectiveness of a vol—
unteer in activities rests to a large extent. It has
been found possible, however, through short in—
tensive institutes to give enough training even to
people who have special abilities though they are
without previous experience in municipal recrea-
tion to enable them to serve as effective helpers.
Such training institutes have been used in St.
Louis, Missouri; Omaha, Nebraska; Reading and
York, Pennsylvania; Pasadena, Glendale, Los
Angeles, Oakland and San Francisco, California;
and in many other cities. In Glen Ridge, New
Jersey, a ten session training course was held in
the spring to train young married women anxious
to help in the local recreation program. With this
group six playgrounds were manned during the
entire season under one trained supervisor.

The value of the institute previously held in
many cities has been demonstrated in this emer-
gency, for from the people who have taken the
course have come many of today’s volunteers.

 
  
   
  
 
  
 
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
    

In some of the smaller cities where there is
year-round recreation executive to direct the .
gram of training there may be an individual
nected with some local organization or an c
standing layman of experience capable of ca
ing it on; or it may be possible to call on ex
enced workers in nearby communities.

The National Recreation Association wi
glad to give suggestions and help in tra'
problems.

The Value of Volunteer Service

The experiments which have been cond
have resulted in certain definite conclusions
garding the value of volunteer leadership and
problems involved.

There is a general feeling that volunteers-s
ing under the direction of professional lea
are exceedingly valuable in the carrying out 0
complete program, particularly with the limi
budgets available at the present time. Much e
phasis, however, is laid on the fact that vol -
teers are valuable only if there is at each activ'
center a trained, experienced paid director.
instances where volunteers are wisely selected a
adequately directed and help is given throu
trained leaders, the use of volunteer workers
a most effective wayof “spreading” the direc
through the community. Where trained sup
vision is lacking, experience has shown, acti
ties tend to consist purely of athletic games a
only a limited group take part.

Another conc1usion reached is that volunte
in general have been found much more helpf
when assigned to specific duties with a defin
age group and with specific hours. In some citi
for example, mothers have given very valua
service with younger children, and workers ho
ing Red Cross certificates have helped effectiv
the swimming pool program. The requiring
definite reports from the volunteers was fou
one method Of' making their work more effecti
The Philadelphia’Playgrounds ,Association fou
it helpful to ask volunteers to fill out and si;
businesslike contract which was binding u
them. Volunteers failing to live up to the ter
of the contract were reported to the organizati
they represented. The volunteers were glad
comply with these requirements and found
plan helpful.

The attitude and effectiveness of the volunt
in the municipal recreation program, it has b

(Continued on {Jage 499)

j .

than

 

Within 200 feet of a school building is a picnic
grove with barbecue pits and a camp fire circle.

Building Recreation on a Slim Purse

JUNIOR high school class sat in the city coun-
cil chamber. Sparkling, expectant eyes
shining out of clean, smiling faces watched

I the formal proceedings with glowing interest.

There was a pause in the discussion, and the
presiding officer spoke.

“I see a delegation here from \Yoodrow
\Vilson Junior High School,” he said, “and 1
understand they desire to present a petition.
If your spokesman will come forward the city
council will be happy to receiye him.”

A girl stepped out and handed the city cleik
a petition.

"Thank you,” she said. “This petition bears
the names of over three hundred children in
our district who ask you to provide us with a
place to play. \Ve realize the danger of games
in the streets, and parents are always forbid-
ding them. VVe have been told there is city
owned property in our district and are asking;
you that it be used for tennis courts and a
baseball field and a playground for the
younger boys and girls.”

And San Jose, California, became recrea-
tion-conscious I

By ROBERT COUCHMAN

San Jose, California

For years we had talked of recreation pro-
grams and boasted of our unique city reserva-
tion, Alum Rock Park, with its hundreds of
acres of rugged canyon, but prosperity sent
our people to the nearby mountains or the
coast. not much farther away. \Vhen these
children, seeking a safe place to play, with
amazing initiative brought their petition to the
city council. we awakened to the realization
that there were hundreds of children and
adults in other districts just as anxious for
recreation opportunities and that no facilities
for play under proper supcrxision existed.

The Survey Committee Goes to Work

The council appointed a Community Recre-
ation Surxey Committee. and in two years
that committee has deVelopc-d an amazin

487

488

foundation program of recreation on the slim
purse that is so distressing in these times.

The “anti’s,” immediately after newspapers
announced that San Jose was to undertake a
real community recreation program, raised
the howl that any bond election to purchase
grounds for playgrounds would be buried
safely by the voters. They received no reply,
and sat back to wonder about what was going
to happen. A quiet survey was made of the
immediate needs for recreation facilities, of the
available ground owned by the city and the
city school department, and the facilities al-
ready existing. We found that school yards
were practically the only open play areas.

“Why not use school.plants six—or even
seven—days a week, every day in the year?"
This was the question the committee raised.
“Why not?” came back
school authorities and
civic leaders.

The schoolmen re—
membered that under
vastly different circum—
stances the old country
schools served as a
meeting place, commu-
nity theater and center
of social life, while the
school yard was some-
thing of a community
playground. They
talked the matter over
and agreed a m o n g
themselves that the ju-
nior high schools, cen-
trally located, offered an opportunity for work-
ing out a test program in each district. This
decision made available the large playfields
and baseball diamonds, the gymnasiums and
by additional negotiating, the trained physical
education and recreation supervisors. For
practical purposes, in keeping with the limited
resources, it was decided that the pioneering,
experimental program should be undertaken
on an extensive scale at one school, and that
similar, more limited programs would be car-
ried on at the other junior high schools.

The San Jose school system, serving a com-
munity with a population of 60,000, comprises
thirteen elementary schools, four junior high
schools, a senior high school and a junior col-

BUILDING RECREATION ON A SLIM PURSE

lege consolidated with a state college. Out 0
the experience of an earthquake catastroph
in 1906 in which many brick and frame stru
tures were wrecked or rendered unsafe f
use, the present school administration defi
itely decided in its program of expansion ma
necessary by increasing population, to ere
only reinforced concrete structures, firepro
and earthquakeproof. As a result, we unde
took a costly building program and in sev
years erected four reinforced concrete juni
high schools, two reinforced concrete eleme
tary schools, and a single story earthqua'
proof wooden structure, all at a. cost i

$1 ,7 50,000.

The Demonstration Center Is Chosen

One of these four junior high schools, The

n
a», 
«t K if“
y .
I
i a

-

Courtesy Pasadena Department of Recreation

Drama has a part in the program, and art activi-
ties are stressed as well as out-of—door spor

dore Roosevelt, was erected on the site of
former sanitarium situated on the bank of .
intermittent stream, the Coyote Creek. T
tine old trees of the old sanitarium were

disturbed when the architect designed the do

~layout to fit into the general layout of the -

grounds. Fortunately this could be done wi
out lessening the effectiveness of the buildi
arrangement. This unusually attractive s
ting, which gave the new school the advanta
of thirty years of landscaping, inspired t
school authorities to attempt to make

school one of the show places of the corn

nity. Its location was good, too, being on E
Santa Clara Street, an easterly extension
the old Alameda laid out in 1780 as the “sha

O

 

   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
    
   
  
 
    
  
    
 
  

1k” between the Spanish pueblo of San Jose
(1 the Mission of Santa Clara. Realizing the
ortage of auditoriums in the city for public
therings, programs and plays by non-pro-
sional groups, a larger auditorium was pro-
ded with adequate stage facilities. Two years
:0 there were added to this original layout
her classrooms and a large gymnasium with
open air swimming pool.

A shelving bank on the creek seemed an
eal place for a picnic ground—it didn’t mat-
r that picnic grounds are not normally con-
dered a part of a junior high school setup—
d during the winter unemployed men were
ven employment, the funds for the work be-
_ provided by plays, paper sales and dona-
ns by teachers and pupils. The Rotary Club
- ve $1,000 toward the project. As a result,
fticient funds were obtained to make possible
' leveling of the creek shelf, its landscaping
u the construction of an open bonfire pit
h encircling benches, two brick barbecue
s, and permanent tables and benches.
ecently flood lights have been set up around
e of the outdoor baseball diamonds so base-
ll—with a soft playground ball—can be
yed at night. A night league with thirty-
' teams has been organized. Because of lim-
(1 facilities fifteen teams which have sought
ry to the league have had to be turned
wn for the present, at least.

Launching the Program

Last summer, under the recreation scheme
onsored by the survey committee and with
e approval of the Board of Education, the
st comprehensive recreation program was
nched. During the school vacation period
three months an attendance of 34,061 persons
5 recorded at' this one center. An average
431 persons daily made use of the facilities
(1 participated in the program. They in-
ded four-year-olds and their grandmothers
d men, women and children of all the ages
between. The summer program included
imming groups for younger boys and girls,
er boys and girls, adults and business groups.
ilar groupings were made in the other play
J gymnasium programs. At the same time or-
. ized leagues were sponsored for baseball, bas-
all and volley ball teams in the different age
ups.

:1 addition to the athletic and play oppor-

BUILDING RECREATION ON A SLIM PURSE 489

tunities offered by the school athletic plant,
the added advantage of the special recreational
facilities can be readily realized. Industrial
groups, employees of commercial institutions
and others engaged the picnic grounds to hold
picnics or barbecues as special parts of their
own participation in the recreation program.
These special parties were often followed with
supervised group games, swimming, some-
times dancing and sometimes league athletic
contests. The result has been that often ama-
teur theatricals are under way in the auditor-
ium, while baseball, basketball and volley ball
teams are at play, swimming classes are in
session, and perhaps a picnic is at its height,
all during the same evening. Play and swim-
ming classes for younger members of the com-
munity are held in the mornings and after-
noons.

The success of the summer program it is
felt, is due to the broadness of the field of
activities and to adequate, trained leadership.
School physical education instructors with
special training in adult recreation are in
charge under the direction of the recreation
committee, in closest coordination with school
authorities.

Future Plans

After the school opens for the fall term the
recreation program for the community at large
is taken over by the Adult Education Center,
the city’s department of adult education. This
is a new development of an entirely different
conception of a night school. It supervises
Americanization work and provides night and
day classes for adults. Throughout the fall,
winter and spring a regularly scheduled recre-
ation program is put on for the entire commu-
nity. Over 5,000 different individuals partici-
pate. Classes are held in swimming, gymna-
sium work and outdoor activities, as well as
in creative and interpretive fields of a semi-
recreational nature. For the women—house-
wives, shopgirls and others—classes are pro-
vided in swimming, gymnasium play, interpre-
tive dancing and similar activities. Foreign
language groups have been encouraged to par-
ticipate in these activities as an effective part
of their training in Americanization. The feel-
ing is general that the contact has been good
for both native born Americans and the natur-
alized Americans and the alien groups.

(Continued on page 500)

One of the Commission’s adventures in music has resulted
in the organization of a municipal playground orchestra.

By HARRY F. GLORE

Supervisor of Music
Public Recreation Commission
Cincinnati, Ohio.

HE Cincinnati Municipal Orchestra, organ-
T ized in October, 1930, by the Public Recrea-
tion Commission, during its first season at—
tained a membership of fifty-live, with every
choir of instruments in a standard symphony or-
chestra represented. At its first public concert on
March 22, 1931, the orchestra appeared in Emery
Auditorium, the home of the Cincinnati Sym-
phony Orchestra, before an audience of over
1,200, including many symphony patrons and
season ticket holders———a representative body of
critical music lovers. The program for the occa-
sion included the Mozart Symphony in G Minor,
played in its entirety, shorter numbers by Bee-
thoven and Rubinstein, and the Coleridge-Tay-
lor suite, “Scenes from an Imaginary Ballet."
The concert was reviewed by the regular music
critics of the Cincinnati newspapers, who, in
signed-articles, received the orchestra with most
favorable comment.
The Cincinnati Municipal Orchestra was or-
ganized with the idea of establishing a permanent
non—professional symphony orchestra w h i ch

490

would enlist talented musicians who ordinarily
would abandon musical activity after leaving high
school and college. It was conceived as a link
between school and professional activity.

The second season of the orchestra was looked
forward to with mingled feelings. Many recrea—
tion groups are organized and carry through the
first year with splendid spirit only to collapse
after the enthusiasm which comes from novelty
dies out. This was not the case, however, with
the Municipal Orchestra. Last October the group
started its second season with only a slight loss
among old members, four of whom moved to
other cities, and immediately began to increase its
membership.

Then a very interesting and significant event
occurred. The Cincinnati Municipal Orchestra
merged with the Cincinnati Civic Orchestra,
which is a group similar to the Municipal Orches—
tra but organized by a small group of individuals
interested in the highest type of music. This.
orchestra was established three years ago and has
grown steadily in membership and artistry of
performance. The result of the combination is.
a complete ensemble, including twenty-four first
violins, twenty second violins, twelve violas, thir-
teen cellos, five string basses, three flutes, three
oboes, three horns, four trumpets, two trom-
bones, four clarinets, two bassoons and a full.

 

l

  
    
  
   
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
  

uipment of percussion instruments. \Vith the
bined groups under the wing of the Public
creation Commission, I am free to turn my
ntion to the business management and pro—
tion of the orchestra and other projects, leav-
the musical direction to Arthur Zack, who

organizer and director of the Civic Or-
stra.

Low Cost of Operation

The Cincinnati Municipal Orchestra last year
. supported entirely by the Public Recreation
1mission at a very low cost. The Supervisor
Music, who is paid an annual salary for all
. duties, was conductor of the orchestra so
re was no additional expense for the leader.
e cost of music amounted to $60.76. Programs
r the concert were paid by a local music house
return for an advertisement on the program.
inting of tickets amounted to $3.00. There
5 no expense for the rental of a place to re-
arse because we obtained a permit from the
ard of Education to use a school building
I ich was open for night school activities. A set
tympani, retailing new at $385, was purchased
cond-hand for $150. This, however, cannot be
unted among one year’s expenditures. It is
irer to total the amount of money spent for in-
ruments from year to year and divide by the
mber of years the orchestra continues to func-
n to obtain the annual average amount spent
r equipment.

Plans for the Future

This year the combined orchestras will func—
n with its own business organization, including
icers and board of directors, under the super-
sion of the Public Recreation Commission. The
rger is regarded as very advantageous in that
will center the attention of music lovers in one
ge ensemble rather than divide the interest
ween the two smaller groups. It achieves the
al of both orchestras at a single move rather
an deferring it several years.
Three concerts are scheduled for this season,
e first of which will feature Brahms’ Fourth
mphony.
It is expected that the large orchestra will not
volve any greater expenditure on the part of
' Commission because it will be partially self-
pporting. Each member pays the nominal fee
ten cents per rehearsal. This amount, aug-
ented by money taken in at concerts, will aid

0/! RECREATIONAL SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 491

very materially in the suppOrt of the group. By
an arrangement with the local Musicians’ Union,

two regular members of the Cincinnati Sym-
phony Orchestra are allowed to play with the
orchestra, and these are the only members of the
entire ensemble who are reimbursed for their
services. They are paid for all public concerts.
In return they render very valuable services. The
concert master, for example, is a Symphony man,
and he assists the non—professional violin players
with bowing and lingering all difficult passages.

The next step on the part of the Public Recrea-
tion Commission to support the orchestra and
make it more stable will be the establishment in
january of a Junior Orchestra to act as a “feed-
er” for the large orchestra. This will be made
up of players whose experience is not quite ade—
quate to earn for them positions in the senior
group. Theywill play the same type of music
and as vacancies occur in the senior group, selec-
tions as far as possible will be made from the
Junior Orchestra. \Ve confidently expect that
the merger, plus the establishment of a junior
group (junior only in the sense of playing abil-
ity), will result not only in a supply of players
equal to the demand, but will actually stimulate

interest to the point of making a waiting list
necessary.

From All Professions

The combined orchestras are made up of both
men and women ranging from a lower age limit
of sixteen years through all ages to those who are
upward of fifty years of age. Of these ninety
men and women, six are still in high school and
fifteen in college or university. The other men
and women represent thirty-five vocations and
professions. A complete list of the professions
and employments represented includes the follow-
ing: stenographer, color artist, advertiser, broker,
currency assorter, civil engineer, electrician, phy-
sician, claim adjuster, violin teacher, tailor, boiler
maker, housewife, pharmacist, switchman, sales-
man, teacher, beauty operator, engineer, auto re-
pairman, shoemaker, chemist, insurance salesman,
embroidery manufacturer, grocer, violin maker,
instrument repairman, builder, machine designer,
shop foreman, printer, barber, merchant, clothing
salesman, showcard writer, structural engineer.
bookkeeper and others.

In conclusion let me say that I feel that the
orchestra fills the need that exists in every large

(Continued on page 501)

 

An Out-of-Door
Play School

UNNYSIDE GARDENS, Long Island, has a forty

S acre housing development maintained by the
City Housing Corporation, a limited divi-
dend corporation. The community now houses
approximately 1,700 families with a population of
almost 7,000 people. In planning the development
the Housing Corporation set aside a four and a
half acre park and playground for the use of the
residents of Sunnyside Gardens. It was main-
tained for two years by the corporation and then
formally turned over to the people of Sunnyside
Gardens to manage and maintain. To do this
satisfactorily, the residents organized the Sunny-
side Gardens Community Association with mem-
bership dues of $12.00 per year per family. This

 

entitles the membership holder to the use of the
park and all its facilities, the benefits to be de-
rived from group organization, the enforcement
of traffic rules and regulations, the improvement
of railway transportation, and the community
spirit which an association of this kind can en—
gender. The budget of the association is approx-
imately $10,000, and the membership includes
about 700 families among whom there are 500
children.

492

A significant experiment foster
by the Child Study Association 1

American and housing corporatio

Last summer the association had its first pl
school, one of fifteen conducted during the su
mer under the auspices of the Child Study Ass
ciation of America. The fact that all of the .
tivities were held out-of—doors on the playgrou
maintained by the Community Association add
greatly to the interest of the experiment.

In order to have the school it was necessa
for the Community Association to guarantee .
average daily attendance of 70 children. So su
cessful was the school that 139 children enroll
and there was an average daily attendance of I
playing in mixed groups of boys and girls. T
Board of Education cooperated in the experim
by providing two teachers and some of the equi

O

Ins. _ 

' n - , .. rm.
_,'......Ms-a;__.&,._m  __ .   . .

A group of children at the Play School h
pily engaged in its particular unit of wo

ment used. Each child paid 75 cents a week, a
from these fees three additional leaders w
paid. Volunteers, too, had a part. A number
residents, specialists in music, storytelling .
art, contributed their services.

The children were divided into five differ
groups—(1) Four to four and a half year t

(Continued on page 501)

l

l

 

  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
    

 

The V. Everit
Macy Park

County, New York,
Park Commission has

named the two hun-
ed acre tract at \Voodlands, the V. Everit Macy

rk, in honor of the late V . Everit Macy, who
r a number of years served as president of the
mmission. Here are to be found river and
e, broad playing Fields and rugged woodland
the tract nearest Mr. Macy’s boyhood home
ntry which he intimately knew. The park will

nd as a lasting memorial to one of \Vestches-
County’s greatest citizens.

IN 1931 the twenty-
're Station a Christ- three firemen from
mas Toy Factory the three stations of
Huntington, Indiana,
yed Santa Claus to seven hundred children.
tey began at Thanksgiving, according to a note
The American City for November, 1932, and
rked up to the Sunday before Christmas. A
tice in the local papers stating that the firemen
uld repair toys brought so large a response
at it was necessary to send trucks and cars to
ing in the toys. A workshop was fitted up with
1 kinds of handy tools and repair materials. The
5 ca] Exchange Club purchased $25 worth of
' 015 to help the work along. Business men and
cal organizations all helped. The Rotary Club
Ir ve 125 pounds of candy; business men gave
0 e use of their trucks. The Salvation Army, the

!.

Courtesy Westchester County Park Commission

THE \Vestchester

 

Charity Guild and similar groups provided the
names and addresses of families to whom the
toys might be distributed. \Nhen the time came
for sending out the toys, the wives of the firemen
helped make the selections so that“ toys suitable
for the ages of the children would reach them.

COMMUNITY rec-
Community Recreation reation parties, held

Parties in Lancaster in the Y. M. C. A.

building. are one of
the most interesting features of the recreation

program conducted by the Lancaster, Pennsyl-

vania. Recreation and Playground Association.
These parties have the support of many organi—
zations, industries and educational institutions.
The executive from each cooperating group
vouches for every guest attending the party by
signing his name and the name of his organiza-
tion on the back of a colored card, on the face of
which information is given regarding the place
and time of the party. The guest also signs his
name on the back of the card. An admission fee
of 25 cents is paid to cover the expenses. The
parties are all rather formal and are conducted
with dignity. Chaperons are provided with Flow-
ers from the fund, and guests do not leave the
building during the party. These programs.
which have been conducted for a number of years,
are tremendously popular, with an attendance
ranging from 250 to 350.

493

 

494 WORLD A'I‘ PLAY

Entertainments At Community Centers——
Each of the Cleveland, Ohio, community centers
was opened to the public in October with a special
entertainment. At Benjamin Franklin, for exam-
ple, there were offered an old time dance, a mod-
ern dance and a vaudeville performance. October
25th was Fun Night at Lafayette Center and
there were games, stunts and orchestra selections.
A style show and musical program featured the
Opening of Memorial Center, while at Nathan
Hale the program consisted of a one-act play,
orchestra selections, an old time dance and social
games. Other centers had similar programs in-
troducing drama, social recreation and dancing.

“Unusually Quiet”—Berke1ey, California, was
one of the communities which proved this year
that Hallowe’en can be made one of the best pos—
sible fun nights for old and young. The city’s
twenty—six playgrounds conducted a total of
thirty parties for children and adults. Parents
joined with the children, donning costumes and
enjoying to the full the parades, games, apple
bobbing, pie eating and doughnut munching con-
tests which featured many of the programs. The
dance clubs of the city were particularly active,
helping in illuminating many of the playgrounds
for the night programs. “We had as much fun
as our youngsters,” said one father. “Unusually
quiet,” was the report of officers on duty to the
desk sergeant for that night.

The largest group ever to gather for a party at'
the Dalton, Massachusetts, Community House,
assembled for the annual Hallowe’en celebration
' when admissions totaled 450. The costume party,
which opened the program, drew 211 participants.
The parade was followed by a group dance, “The
Dance of the Skeletons,” and by a motion
picture show. Cider and cookies were provided
as refreshments.

Boy Scout Week—Boy Scout week, marking
the twenty-third anniversary of the Boy Scout
movement in America, is to be celebrated by
Scouts and Scout leaders February 8 to I4, 1933.
Nearly a million boys each year are members of
the Boy Scouts of America. In spite of the de-
pression a new development has been undertaken
during the past year, and the movement has en-
tered upon an intensive ten year program to cover
the next decade, designed to build a body of gen—
uinely patriotic citizens thoroughly devoted to the
public welfare and entirely committed to the ad—
vancement of the public interest.

A Football Contest in Los Angeles—~Octo
and November were exciting months for
Angeles, California, boys, for it was then that
annual playground football contest was condu
at the municipal recreation centers. The con
was based on competition in the kicking, pas
and pass-receiving departments of the gridi l
sport. It was open to all boys of the city sixt '
years of age or under. Following several day
practice forty-seven playgrounds held indivi
contests on November 5th, selecting competit
for the city-wide finals held on November I
One thousand free tickets were provided by
University of California at Los Angeles for
game with the University of Washington at ‘
Olympic stadium on December 3rd, these tic ‘
to be used as awards for boys showing outsta
ing ability in the contest. 1

l
l
l

'l

Use of School Buildings in Pittsburg
Social service agencies of Pittsburgh, Penn
vania, having in their employ or otherwise av
able people qualified to direct recreational act
ties have been permitted, through a special n
rangement, to use school gymnasiums without
employment of supervision by the Board. I
issuing and use of these permits have been un
the supervision of the Director of Recreati
The agencies taking advantage of this opp ;
tunity have been the settlements, branches of i
Y.M.C.A., churches and similar groups. Thro A
the cooperation of the Allegheny County Em
gency Association in directing competent lead
ship, the evening use of school buildings \
practically doubled this year, buildings w
thirty-two gymnasiums having been used. Th
enrolled have been largely unemployed yo
men and women.

“You Can Make It” Booklets Reduce
Recreation workers and all interested in ha
craft activities will be glad to have word that r
price of each of the “You Can Make It” se
of booklets issued by the National Committee
Wood Utilization, Department of Commerce,
been reduced to $.05 a copy. This includes “
Can Make It,” Vol. I, “You Can Make It
Camp and Cottage,” and “You Can Make It
Profit.” In quantities of 100 or more a disco
of 25 per cent is allowed, bringing the quan
price of each down to $3.75 per 100 copies. Th
booklets may be secured from the Governm
Printing Office, Washington, D. C.

H

   
   
    
   
   
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
   
    
  
  
 
 
 

A More Beautiful America Contest—The
932-1934 More Beautiful America contest con-
cted by Better Homes and Gardens of Des
oines, Iowa, will run from September 1, 1932,
: October I, 1934. It will be open to any civic
ganization, such as a garden club or woman’s
‘ b, or to any individual. Projects include the
autilication of railroad approaches, the creation
parks, the landscaping of grounds around
hools and other buildings, the organization of
nior garden clubs, removal of rubbish, making
a bird sanctuary and of a municipal garden,

planting of municipal forests and similar

ojects.

An Art Exhibit in Lynchburg—Recently the
-nchburg, Virginia, Department of Recreation
(1 Playgrounds cooperated with the Civic Art
ague in an art exhibit held in the showrooms
a local furniture company, the purpose of
ich was to “foster art talent, encourage this
ans of self-expression and develop wide inter-
v in art.” The exhibit was open to the public
m November 5th through November 29th.
quirements were that everything shown must
the original work of residents of Lynchburg
vicinity over sixteen years of age. Pictures
ne in oils, it was required, must be suitably
med and all other work framed or matted and
dy for hanging.

Archery Grows in P0pularity—An item in
~ 1932 .llmu'cipal I ndcx states that a New Eng-
d authority estimates an increase in the num-
of archers from 100,000 in 1929 to 200,000
the end of 1931. New Haven, Connecticut, is
ntioned as developing an archery range mak-
, provision for from twelve to fifteen targets
11 six possible new targets this year. Archery
rated as an important and promising addition
the public recreation program.

rama On the Austin Playgrounds—The
ygrounds of Austin, Texas, displayed much
rest last summer in drama. Clubs and classes
anized at the various centers took part in one
tournaments, skits, stunts, shadow pictures,
tomimes and charades which they presented
he weekly community nights held on the play-
. nds. At different times during the season
ious clubs entertained one another with social
A dramatic programs. Puppets, too, were pop-
r, and a tournament was held during July.

WORLD AT PLAY 495

Recreation Institute For Parent-Teacher
Groups—Following a series of sessions in which
more than three hundred women participated, the
Los Angeles, California, Parent-Teacher Recrea-
tion Institute, which met at the Olympic swim-
ming stadium, was closed on October 28th. As
a result of the institute, held under the auspices
of the city Playground and Recreation Depart-
ment, recreation chairmen and other officers of
Parent—Teacher Associations throughout the city
have been equipped to serve as leaders in launch-
ing recreation programs for their own groups and
families. It is expected that the institute will
become an annual feature of Parent-Teacher
activities in Los Angeles.

Oakland’s Recreation Department Expands
Program—From Oakland, California, comes
word that all recreation facilities in parks for-
merly operated by the Park Department have
recently been placed under the supervision of the
Recreation Department. These facilities include
eight tennis courts, forty horseshoe courts. two
bowling greens, an archery course, a swimming
pool, fifty-one outdoor fireplaces and four picnic
areas. Under the cooperative arrangement made

SOMETHINGnNEW

A waterproof and sanitary covering for

diving boards: used also as runners in
shower rooms. corridors. recreation rooms
—-any place where floors present a slipping
hazard which sometimes causes serious and
expensive personal injury. Besides being
sanitary. this material WILL OUTWEAR
ORDINARY COCOA-MATTING.

Ask for literature and prices on
RUBBER-TEX

AMERICAN PLAYGROUND DEVICE Co.
ANDERSON INDIANA

 

496 ' WORLD AT PLAY

the Park Department will maintain the facilities
and the Recreation Department will provide lead-
ership, grant permits and schedule tournaments.

City Camp to House the Unemployed—
Camp Radford, a mountain camp maintained by
the Los Angeles, California, Department of Play-
ground and Recreation in the San Bernardino
Mountains, will be turned over to the National
Forest Service to provide housing for several
hundred unemployed men during the fall and
winter. These men will be given food and shelter
while they are constructing lirebrakes, trails and
other forest necessities.

Parent—Teacher Group Saves Playgrounds—
When it was found that the city fathers of Fort
Wayne, Indiana, had made no provision for funds
for summer playgrounds, a large delegation from
the Parent-Teacher Association urged a recon—
sideration with the result that the Board took one
cent from the general park budget and placed the
$16,000 to be derived from this levy to the credit
of the playground fund.

An Institute Brings Results—Following the
institute in Stanislaus County, California, con—
ducted by the National Recreation Association in
cooperation with the Extension Department, a
recreation department was organized in the 4—H
Club group. This department meets every month
to conduct activities and members are sent to
rural groups to lead recreation programs. Up to
September 21, 1932, members of the department
had helped in putting on programs attended by
approximately 5,200 people. After the drama
institute, which followed the first general insti-
tute, a Drama Council was formed within the
recreation department to aid in stimulating plays
in the various communities and to accumulate

material regarding play production which will be
available to all groups.

Music in Community Centers—The annual
report of the Department of Recreation of
York, Pennsylvania, states that many who at—
tended the evening recreation centers con—
ducted last winter at three of the schools were
out' of work, while many had discontinued
school at the age of fourteen and had never
worked at all. “Those who came to the cen-
ters eagerly helped to make their own good
times. For instance, each had its own volun—
teer orchestra to play for dancing. One of
these groups after live years’ experience at the

Lincoln and Jefferson centers graduated i
the professional class and in a group known
Paul Dohms Melody Masters are now earni
their living by playing.”

Play and Juvenile Delinquency—The -
teenth annual report of the Juvenile and l
mestic‘ Relations Court of Richmond, Virgi
(1931) makes the statement: “It is ind
gratifying to note that in spite of the contin
depression there has beer: a marked decre
in the number of children- appearing bef
the court charged with delinquencies. I
figures are as follows: 2,479 for the year 1
2,160 for 1931, or a decrease of 319—more t
12 per cent. A large measure of credit for t
significant decrease is due to the iine coop
tion of the Police Department and the C
munity Recreation Association in their effo
to settle minor infractions 0f the law with

recourse to the court.”

In 1931 the Community Recreation Asso
tion Organized a special Committee on Cri
Prevention of which Miss Claire McCart
Director of the Community Recreation As
ciation, is Secretary. Through this commit
much has been done to supervise activities
children in the Detention Home and to p
vide recreation facilities. A worker known
special crime prevention officer has been i
signed by the director of public safety to r
vote his entire time to the adjustment of mi

juvenile delinquencies.

 

Newark Plans for Play

(Continued from page 464)

staff. The work of the Department of Recr
tion is not confined solely to the schools, one
the chief tasks of the director being that of ke
ing in close contact with all recreational activi
in the city and giving aid of a solely volunt
nature when it is within his power to do so.

must aid in maintaining the closest coopera
between the Board of Education and the cha
ter—building, social, and welfare agencies as

as the county and city park systems. As a ma
of convenience all permits issued to the sch
for the use of facilities under the control of

County Park Commission are at present cle.

through the Recreation Department. By an
rangement with the secretary of the Park C
mission all recreational activities directed in

 

mty parks are under the immediate supervision
the Recreation Department of the Board of
ucation.

‘To direct the community recreation program
Newark necessitates the extensive use of school
'ldings and grounds and the very closest co-
ination and cooperation of the recreational
ff with the school principals, heads of depart-
nts, and teachers. So much so that it would be
ctically impossible for an outside agency to
ke the best use of facilities, maintain the neces-
' coordination and cooperation with the schools
c at the same time leave the schools free to
duct their program. Accordingly the Recrea-
n Department of the Board of Education in
wark functions as a separate department under
- Board of Education and has charge of all

tivities in the schools after the close of the
‘ 001 day.”

   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
    
  
 
    
  
  
  
 
 

Spectator Sportsmanship
(Continued from page 467)

0 commits the infraction of a rule, the ma-
rity will keep quiet.

I beg of all of you that you will lose no oppor-
iity to preach the gospel of fair competition in
mds because it is a bad thing for the boys and
bad thing for the undergraduates, and in re-
rse, fine sportsmanship in the stands is an addi-
nal incentive in the whole movement for a
, her culture and a nobler civilization.

Valentine Party Suggestions
(Continued from page 468)

'ties” try to change seats without being caught
the “postman.” When he catches anyone, that
~ son becomes the postman and the former post-

n takes the seat. If the circle is small, the post-
n can be blindfolded.

Heart Exorciso. A heart three or four feet in
meter is drawn on the fioor with chalk. The
yers, not more than fifteen at one time, then
'n hands and form a circle around the heart.
the signal, they all begin to pull trying to make
e of the players step inside the heart. The
yer who stays out longest wins.

Cupid Toss. A heart is drawn in the center of
floor. Players are divided into two teams,
nding in straight lines facing the heart on op-
ite sides. Each person is given an equal num-
of cardboard hearts; one side has white and

VALENTINE PARTY SUGGESTIONS 497

Suggestions for Making
A Community
Recreation Survey

A COMPREHENSIVE OUTLINE

which will be of practical
help to a local group in check—
ing on the recreational needs
and progress of a community.
It not only provides the basis
for securing information but
suggests ways of putting recom-
mendations into effect, and of-
fers a brief bibliography.

Price $.25

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue
New York City

the other red. The object is to try to toss the
hearts, one at a time, into the heart. After all
players have participated count the hearts in the
large heart to determine who won.

Have a Heart. Players are in file formation,
an equal number in each file. A heart, opposite
each hle, six inches in diameter is drawn I 5 feet
from the starting line while another heart is
drawn 25 feet from the starting line. In the
nearest set of hearts is placed five small candy
hearts. On the word “go” the first person in each
file with a knife in hand runs to the candy hearts,
transfers them (one at a time) to the farthest
heart. After completing that, he returns giving
the knife to the second person who transfers
them to the nearest, etc. The file wins which
completes the round first.

Heart and Dart Game. Make a large heart out
of cardboard. Paste on it eight or ten small white

hearts. Number these and post in a conspicuous
place the meaning of each heart. For instance,
No. I may mean “matrimonial success,” No. 2
may mean “no chance,” No. 3 may mean “domes-
tic warfare,” etc. Players are divided into two
teams and the score is kept to determine the win-

 

498 FOR A WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY PARTY

Journal of
Physical Education

Write for the January issue
if you would know:

What Civilization is Doing to Us.

Facts About Progressive Education
and Promotion of Athletic Meets.

A YMCA Physical Education Pro-

gram for Boys.

The Use of Volley Ball as a Part
of Regular Class Play.

Subscribe for the year if you are interested
in other phases of physical education.

347 MADISON AVENUE

New YORK CITY

Price, $3.00 Overseas and Canada. $3.25
Single Copies, 35c.

 

ner. Each player gets one turn at throwing the
dart at the heart, scoring for his team (when he
hits the heart) as well as having his fortune dis-
covered. The darts may be made by placing a
piece of paper crisscrossed in a cork with a pin
at the other end.

 

NOTE: These extracts have been taken from a bulletin
issued by the Department of Public Playgrounds and
Recreation, Reading, Pa.

For a Washington Birthday Party
(Continued from page 469)

before each file (the stem being about 20 or 25
feet in length and the cherries about a foot in
diameter). Players are divided into two files, the
first person standing on a cherry. When the sig—
nal is given, he must walk on the chalk line
over to the other cherry, return and touch off the
next player. This continues until all players of a
team have walked the straight and narrow path
which George Washington walked. The team
which first successfully Walks the path wins the
game. However, if any runner falls off the stem,
he must go back and start from the beginning
again.

Cherry Tree Relay. Players are divided i
equal groups, standing in file formation faci
the line of four trees which are placed abou
foot apart. Trees are made from cardboard a
tacked on small blocks of wood. The first pla
in each file has a small cardboard hatchet wh
is used to chop down the cherry trees. On -
signal to start, the first player in each file r
up to the first free, cuts it down, returns, ha
the hatchet to the second person who cuts do
the second tree, etc. The fifth person, since
the trees have been cut down, then runs
plants the trees again (stands them up) and ru
back and tags the sixth person who then sta
again by cutting down the first tree, and so u
The team wins which gets the first person ba
in place.

 

NOTE: From bulletin issued by the Department
Public Playgrounds and Recreation, Reading, Pa.

Bump-the-Bump Slide
(Continued from page 472)

4. Avoid starting riders too close to each 0th
or a fast rider follow too soon after a slow 0

5. Start those of same size and age togeth
Do not mix older and larger riders with t
smaller ones.

6. Use discretion in mixing children, adu
and certain “undesirables.” Tactfully encoura
homogeneous groupings of participants.

   
   

7. Enforce the curfew law. Children shou
be discouraged from using slide at night. E
courage adult use at night.

8. If necessary to leave your position ask so
other worker or adult to take your place te
porarily.

9. See that rules governing use of slide a
posted where they can easily be seen.

10. Open and close the bumps on tim
scheduled.

II. See that the bumps is in repair and sa

to use at all times.
12. Keep supplies and equipment locked in t

tool box.

Rules Governing the Use of “Bumps”
I. Sliding is allowed only at designated plac

2. Less than live persons standing in a “trai
is not.allowed.

3. Before starting see that the bumps is cl
and safe.

4. Those using the bumps do so at own risk.

  
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 

'ckly as possible.
. Look out for oncoming sliders.

7. Return to top of hill on the path provided
‘ this purpose.

. Throwing snow in face of riders while rid-
‘, on the slide is prohibited.

0 help govern the crowds, reduce likelihood
accidents, and to encourage large numbers to
the bump-the-bumps, notices should be posted
convenient places around the slide.

uggestions Concerning Junior “Bumps”

With the aid of children, a small bump-the-
‘ ps or sliding hill can be made of snow and
ter on level ground in a school yard, vacant
, or playground. This can be done by building
rectangular solid block of snow about 3 to 5
t high and 5 or 6 feet square. On one side of
5 block can be constructed a gradual incline as
e as the entire side. Sides can be built along
- slope as described above.

he block of snow can be made on warm days
making large snowballs and arranging them
't to each other and on top of each other in
' form of a rectangle. On colder days, when
' snow does not pack, large cakes of snow
cks can be made by packing snow into box
ms, spraying with water and allowing to
eze.

now steps can be made on the back of the
e. Be careful that too much water is not used
the block of snow creating a seepage or getting
00 icy. Sand or snow might be sprinkled over

walking surface so as to eliminate slippery
t's.

Volunteer Leadership in the
Recreation Movement

(Continued from page 486)

ited out, depends largely upon the attitude of
recreation executive. One of the most sig-
ant and revealing facts about the imagination,
urcefulness and educational capacity of a
l superintendent, one experienced worker has
, is his attitude toward volunteers and his
ity to secure them and hold them for con-
ctive work. “I have observed the relationship

. When reaching the end of course, get off as

VOLUNTEER LEADERSHIP IN THE RECREATION MOVEMENT 499

of the executives toward volunteers and it seems
to me that most of them fall down on the psycho-
logical side because of their own mental attitude.
They seem to feel that a volunteer, because he is
giving his services, is a person who requires def-
erence, hours convenient to his whims and com-
plete absence of discipline, whereas as a matter
of fact that is the surest way to fail. The only
difference between the volunteer and the paid
worker is that one is paid and one is not, so in
order to appeal to the imagination of the volun-
teer and give him a feeling of responsibility he
must be presented with a real job. The volun-
teer’s qualifications, his willingness to take train-
ing for doing the job, must be reviewed and the
fact impressed upon him that when he is assum-
ing this job he takes a definite responsibility
which relieves someone else, and when the hours
of his service are set by mutual conference he has
been given a definite commitment which he should
abide by.”

On the whole, experience has shown that re-
sponsibility is pretty generally accepted by the
volunteer with some difficulties because of irreg-
ularity of attendance, and that their services are
of the greatest importance in the present crisis.

 
  

  

The New

C A M P l N 6
Magazine

 
    

The Official Journal of the Camp

Directors’ Association of America

 
    

For recreational leaders—here is
timely Opinion, experience and
news of camp experts and the
camping world.

        
   
 
 

25 cents a copy . . $2.00 a year

 
 
   

CAMP DIRECTORS’

ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA
551 FIFTH AVENUE

  

 
   
   
 

N EW YORK CITY

 

500 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 2
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Hygeia, December 1932.
Playthings and Health, by Rose Henderson.
Does Your Community Need an In-BeddClub?

The Parents’ Magazine, December 1932.
New Toys and Old, by Gertrude Oram.

Camp Life, November 1932.
Improving the Old Swimming Hole.

Dance Events, December 3, 1932. .
Leisure and Folk Dancing, by Mary Wood Hinman.

The American City, December 1932.
Relief Funds Make High School Athletic Field

Possible.
The Silver Lining.
Providence Playgrounds Celebrate in Annual
Festival.

Well Designed and Located Service Buildings in
Wooded Park.
Berlin’s New Park.

The Lion, December 1932.
Three Thousand Acres of Playgrounds, by Clyde
Welman.

The Epworth Highway, January 1933.
A Music—Around—the-World-Evening.

Scholastic Coach, December 1932.
Speedball for Girls, by Alice W. Frymir.

Parks and Recreation, November—December 1932.
Winter Sports Development throughout the Nation,
by Harold A. Grinden. ‘
Effect of Depression on Park and Recreation Ac-
tivities, by L. H. Weir.
Meeting Public Demands with Decreasing Park
Budgets, by Forrest E. Smith.

Increasing Park Values through Cooperation, by
W. A. Stinchcomb.

“Bump-the-Bumps” Slide, by B. G. Leighton.

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
December 1932.
“Hold on to Health,” by C. Frances Loomis.

Footnotes on the Olympic Games, by V. K. Brown.
The Play Day of the Evansville High School.

PAMPHLETS

Bloomfield Municipal Playgrounds I932, Recreation
Commission, Bloomrheld, N. J.

Seventh Annual Report of Department of Recreation,
Hamtramck, Mich.

Program of Educational and Cultural Activities, Radburn,
N. L. 1932—1933.

Report of the Forester for the year ended June 30, 1932.
U. S. Department of Agriculture.

Annual Report of the Director of the National Park
Service for the year ended June 30, 1932.

In many cities only through the use of volunt
has it been possible to meet the increased dem
and in some cities had it not been for volunt
there would have been no playground prog
or indoor centers last year.

The social values adherent in recreation w
someone has said, can never be realized un
there is a most extensive use of volunteer ser
by public departments. The advancement of
movement is dependent upon an understan
of these values by an increasing number of -
ple, and there is no more effective way of br'
ing this about than through the use of volunt
and participants in the activities.

Building Recreation on a Slim Pur
(Continued from page'489)

Eventually the three other junior h
schools will be developed into similar com
nity recreation centers with equipment
programs suited to the needs of the distr'
in which they are located. Facilities will
added with underlying thought that they
not only for the use of pupils in the schools
for the use of the adults of the neighborh
as well. '

In planning the school layouts of the ne
schools, the use of the school plant as a ce .
of recreation has been kept in mind. The g,
nasiums, for instance, have been built 0
larger scale than would have been necess
to meet the needs of a junior high school. 1
additional expenditure, however, has conver
a hve—hour—a—day, hve—day—a—week gymnasi
into a full time plant. As the Adult Educat
Center program is expanded and its classe
self-expression, dramatics, creative writing
dancing are provided for all who desire th
the newer community centers will meet th
special needs as well as the more general
rational needs.

This venture in “thin purse” recreatio
programs is largely the result of the imag'
tion and planning of the Community Rec
tional Survey Committee headed by Georg
Hanson and C. C. Cottrell, the city supe
tendent of schools; Walter L. Bachrodt,
his Board of Education; Dr. W. S. Van
sem; George B. Campbell; David M. Bur
John S. Williams, Sr., and C. S. Allen. D
L. MacKaye is director of the Adult Ed

tion Center.

 
   
   
  
  
  

9
l
E

Recreational Symphony Orchestra
(Continued from page 491)

Small community ensembles, playing even
best of music, can never express the true
ilty and grandeur of Beethoven, Brahms and
gner. The great symphonic works can only
performed adequately by a full ensemble.
'nk of the joy and satisfaction that comes into
lives of these men and women from all walks
life! They are not merely experiencing the
sure that comes to any one who has the price
a ticket to a concert by the Cincinnati Sym-
ny Orchestra; they are knowing the joy of
eating the music of the masters which in the
1 analysis develops the highest form of appre-
ion. Participation is the surest and most direct
to develop real appreciation of any art.

   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
    
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  

Music Real Recreation

have been surprised 'and rather disappointed
ne viewpoint that I have encountered in a few
eation leaders. They say something like this:
on’t you think that the intense labor necessary
perform a symphony out of keeping with the
it of recreation? Wouldn’t it be better to
ose lighter music so they could have more fun
of playing it ?” My answer to this is a most
hatic “No”! Recreation, as I see it, has an
nite number of levels and this group repre-
ts, to my biased mind, the highest level. Just
a very good chess player is not likely to be
d by checkers, as the lover of Shakespeare is
an addict of the “true romance” type of lie-
‘1, as a lover of the best in drama is not enticed
burlesque, so for the members of our or-
tra the playing of Bach, Beethoven, Schu-
. n, and the like, is more satisfying than any
ic of lower quality.

5 proof of my assertion I need only to take
one to a rehearsal. Every member of the
estra is there who can possibly be; unexcused
nce means loss of place and three successive
xcused absences mean loss of membership.
y are on time and eager to begin. If it is
ssary to discuss business matters, such mat-
are dispatched with a precision and speed
savors of impatience. They are jealous of
y moment taken from rehearsal, just as a boy
he playground is impatient at anything which
rrupts an exciting, competitive game. They
it! To them it is not work; it is real rec-
ion.

A RECREATIONBIL SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 501

An Out-of-Door Play School

(Continued from page 492)

children; (2) Four and a half to Five years; (3)
Five year old boys and girls; (4) Six to seven
and a half years; (5) Seven and a half to nine
and a half years. Each group had its unit of work
to which the handcraft, music, art and all other
activities contributed. The interest of the two
youngest groups was directed toward social con-
duct or “social living” as it was called. The five
year old group had transportation as its particular
unit. For the fourth group the unit was food;
for the oldest group, shelter. Though in all the
activities stress was laid on these main motifs, the
children’s originality often led them far afield in
many interesting variations!

Each leader had a meeting place corresponding
to a home room in which her particular group
met at the beginning of the morning and after-
noon sessions which lasted from 9:00 to 12:00
and from 2:00 to 4:30. Special activities, such-as
music, art and crafts, were carried on in the
cabin, the tool shed and immediately outside these
two buildings. The children enjoyed showers on
the handball courts. Rest periods were spent
under the trees of the park. The children whose
parents would permit them to go were taken
twice a week to a local swimming pool. Physical
examinations were given the children.

The public library sent one hundred children's
books to the school, and at regular periods twice
a week the books were given to the children to
be taken to their homes. The children’s gardens,
maintained by the Community Association, were
used to great advantage by the play school, par-
ticularly by the group having food as its work
unit. In the storytelling period held twice a week
much stress was laid on the development of the
four general themes.

Staff meetings were held each week, and prob-
lems having to do with adjustments of individual
children were discussed. In some cases the par-
ents met with the teachers to help iron out diffi-
cult situations. During the seven week session
of the school two meetings for parents were held.
each attended by more than fifty adults. Out of
this has grown a discussion group for parents
which will meet during the winter.

NOTE: In a statement regarding the Sunnyside Summer
Play School the Child Study Association of America

says:
(Continued on page 502)

--"'—I"" :3}—

502 ' OUR DECISION IS

>>>

Our Decision Is

<<<

interest in the game of ping-pong. A few
questions regarding some of the rules are

answered here.

Q. What score constitutes an official game?

A. A game consists of twenty-one points. lt
shall be won by the first player to win
twenty-one points by a margin of two

points.

COMMUNITY center members are finding great

.  Must the server first hit the served ball

against his own playing surface?

A. Yes. Player must project or dr0p the ball in
the air by hand, then strike it with his

racket so that it touches his own playing
surface before passing over the net.

Q. What is the order of service in singles?

A. After every kve points the server shall be-
,come the receiver and the receiver the

server except when the score reaches
twenty all or twenty-one all, etc., when
service shall alternate after every pornt.

Q. Must the ball be served to opposite courts
as in tennis?

A. No. In singles play the server may serve
from any part of his playing surface, the
ball touching any part of his playing sur-
face to that of the receiver. At the mo-
ment of impact of the racket and ball,
both players must be behind the base line
and between an imaginery extension of
the side lines.

Q. What constitutes a fair return?

A. One in which the ball, having been served,
is struck by the receiver with his racket
while it is in his hand or with his racket
hand below his wrist while his racket is
in his hand, before the ball shall have
touched his playing surface twice consecu-
tively. The ball so struck must pass over
or around the end and touch any part of
the opponent’s playing surface.

Q. Is the play “let” in ping-pong similar to the
play in tennis?

A. Yes. A “let” shall be called when the ball

in passing over the net in service touches
the net or posts, provided the service be
otherwise good.

 

Q. How can points be lost by a player?

A. Either player shall lose a point: (a) if
his racket, or anything he wears or .
ries touches the net or posts while the l
is in play; (b) if a free hand touch
playing surface while the ball is in p
(c) if the ball comes in contact with a
thing he wears or carries before the .
shall have passed over the end or sid:
the playing surface and before it
touched his playing surface; (d) if
volley the ball at any time while it i
play, i.e., if he strike the ball befor
shall have passed over the end or sid'
his playing surface and before it s
have touched his playing surface; (e
in playing an opponent’s good servic
return he strike the ball twice cons
tively.

Q. What are the correct official dimensions
ping-pong table?

A. The table shall be 9 feet in length and 5 '
in width. Its upper surface shall b

feet 6 inches above the floor and shall
in a horizontal plane.

Q. Are rackets restricted to a particular size .
Weight?

A. No.

Q. What are ofiicial rules on the placing of
net?

A. The net must be 4% feet from the base li
of the table and parallel to them throu
out its length. It must be 6% inc
above the playing surface and its
must be taut.

An Out-oi—Door Play School

( Continued from page 501)

“For 15 years the Summer Play Schools Commi
of the Child Study Association of America has been
tiver engaged in interesting communities in the us
their own facilities and resources for making the sum
time meaningful to children whose vacation peri
otherwise unprovided for. This period is 'being used
organizations to conduct all day play schools for child
A program of creative activities Ibased on the child’s
terest and background has developed. Time is also g'
to a more intensive study of the individual needs of
child and for closer contact with the home.

“Sunnyside Gardens has been a pioneer in using
playground facilities for a more vital summer’s exp
ence for children. It has taken the essential feature
an all day play school, modifying them in accordance
the special needs and resources of its own communit

“In the first year of the experiment, Sunnyside C
dens has made real progress in demonstrating the wa
which a playground can be made more vital to home ‘
child through the deveIOpment of a program based
present day educational principles.”

 

{

   
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 

Glimpses into Boyland

Walter Mac Peek. The Franklin Press,
Tenth Street, Washington, D. C. $.50.

\‘Exnaex stories, including “George
Washington—Real Boy," make up this
nty-one page book which has been
tten largely for leaders of youth, Scout
ers, teachers, Sunday School workers
others, to help them develop an under-
ding of young peOple. The book is il-
rated with more than twenty thumb
l silhouettes which add to its attrac-
ness.

e Professional Boys'Worker

in the Y. M. C. A.

Owen E. Pence. Association Press,
Madison Avenue, New York. $1.50.

as MONOGRAPH has been issued to pro-
vide 'boys’ work secretaries of the Y.
C. A. certain facts which may help
in examining their position as a pro-
ional group and in planning for their
professional developments. The data
1 in the study on which the monograph is based re-
' . to the field of work, the position itself, the present
onnel, the present status and the professional out-
. The book should be helpful to all group workers
i valuating their own professions.

Machine-Made Leisure

Paul T.‘ Frank]. Harper & Brothers, New York.
.

RE IS a stimulating book in which one of America’s
distinguished artists and designers in the field of the
ied arts discusses the relation of the artist to our
strial life and points out both how the artist can
tion effectively in the machine civilization and how
manufacturer and distributor of goods can wisely
l themselves of the role which these creators of
ty should play in American life. Out of the analysis
the role of machinery in the modern world the
or develops the theme of the increasing impertance
leisure. A few quotations will show his trend of
ght.

his book is not written for the few to whom art is
r—an abstract matter of beauty to be dealt with in
tic words. It is rather intended for the many who
with me the desire to live and see life in terms of
ty. The aim of industry is to enable us to live well.
he machine, our slave, is to do the work we other-
would have to do, it ought to give us additional
re—and beautiful leisure. . . . Our problem is how
ive at peace with the machine. But to do this it is
sary to persuade the great American public that
re may be a sound investment, since leisure is, in

  
   
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
   
  

New Books on Recreation

 

Courtesy Bloomfield, N. J. Board of Recreation Commissioner:

Boys and young men come into prominence
in a number of recently published books.

the long run, the very thing that dollars and cents are
supposed to 'buy. . . . If the machine can be mobilized
for the creation of the really good life, its tortuous and
tragic history will be fully justified, and leisure will be
once more not a curse but a blessing.”

Leisure in the Modern World

$Bysgi. Delisle Burns. The Century Company, New York.
2. .

R. BURNS, the author of Modern Civilization on Trial

and the Stevenson Lecturer in Citizenship in the
University of Glasgow, in preparing this book has
adapted material given in a series of talks over the radio
from Glasgow and London in 1932. His argument as
he states it is as follows: Recent changes in the amount
of leisure and its uses have caused social tendencies to-
ward experimentalism in daily life, toward equality and
toward movements which aim at modifying the tradi-
tional position of women, of children and of the youth-
ful. There is now a possibility of a new type of civilized
life, not dependent upon a leisured class but arising
directly from the leisure of those who work for a liv-
ing. Leisure has always been misused even in ancient
Athens, Mr. Burns contends. It was a small minority
who enjoyed the society of Socrates or produced poems
and sculpture. Today if democracy is to be civilized,
not only a deeper scientific insight but works of line art
must come out of the leisure of the majority—those who
work for a living. "Civilization may depend for its
roots upon the way in which work is done,” states the
author, “but it depends for its finest flower upon the use
of leisure.”

504 NEW’BOOKS ON RECREATION

Student’s Handbook of Archery.

By Phillip Rounsevelle. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $.25.

This book is intended for beginners. Consequently it
takes up in detail such fundamental questions as the
selection and care of equipment and fundamentals of
correct positions. A number of 'archery games are de-
scribed and a bibliography is included, together with a
number of score sheets and suggestions for their use.

Neighborhoods of Small Homes.

By Robert Whitten and Thomas Adams, Harvard
University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts. $3.50.

This study is published as the third volume of the
Harvard City Planning Studies and is devoted to the
problem of the economical development of neighbor-
hoods of small homes, including consideration of the
whole question of adequate open space for sunlight, air
and recreation. The first section of the volume has been
prepared by Robert Whitten, who covers the planning
problems involved in the development of neighborhoods
of small homes at low cost in the United States. The
second section by Thomas Adams is a report of the ex-
perience in England along this line, including garden
city developments and housing deveIOpments under the
auspices of the London City Council. Park and recre-
ation executives throughout the country will be inter-
ested in the consideration given to the problem of parks
and play spaces, both in the English experiences and in
the suggestions worked out for communities in the
United States.

It is becoming more and more apparent that neigh-
borhood environment is as important a consideration as
the house and lot themselves. Significant statements are
being made by heads of savings banks, insurance com-
panies and others interested in the financing of home
building and home ownership, as to the importance of
city and neighborhood planning to the financing group.
They consider more and more the stability of neighbor-
hood as a factor in financing of home ownership, and
acknowledge the contribution of Open spaces to neigh-
borhood stability. Park and recreation executives also
have a direct concern in city and neighborhood planning
for recreation, and the material in this volume should be
of interest to them and of real value in helping them to
interpret to local realtors and others interested in the
development of residential neighborhoods proper plan-
ning for recreation and ways and means in which this
can contribute to the commercial value as well as the
social values of the community.

The Readers’ Guide to Periodical Literature.

H. W. Wilson Company, 950-972 University Avenue,
New York.

This index to the current numbers and back files of
more than one hundred magazines is a most useful ref-
erence for public and school libraries. The Guide was
first issued in 1900 and the complete service is included
in a series of large cumulations bound in library buck-
ram. All the references are entered under specific sub-
jects, each entry giving the necessary information for
finding the article. The eighth volume, just published,
contains a complete index of the contents of RECREATION
for the past three and one—half years.

Play and Play Materials.

Child Study Association of America, 221 West 57th
Street, New York.

The December issue of Child Study is devoted to a
discussion of play and play materials, and a number of
interesting and practical articles are presented on this
subject. This number also contains a selection of the
year’s best books for children. Copies of the issue may
be secured at $.15 each from the Child Study Association
of America.

Physical Education Activities.

By Theodore Cramlet, M.A. and Russell C. Hin
B.S. Dodd, Mead and Company, New York. $2

During recent years many of the more formal m
o_ds of gymnastic drills and apparatus work in the p
sical education program have been replaced by infor
work and play. In this volume the authors have ma
combination of formal and informal types of exer
Among the activities and facilities described—and t
are many illustrations and diagrams accompanying t
-—are tumbling, hand balancing stunts, foot tumb
fiying rings, horizontal bar, single trapeze, body bal
ing stunts, juggling and balance, pyramid building,
miscellaneous gymnastic events. Part II is devote
the organization of short gymnastic programs, in g
ticular the circus.

Watching Yourself Go By.

Girls’ Friendly Society of the United States
America, 386 Fourth Avenue, New York $.25

Live issues for girls of today are presented in the 1
units of this program kit—How girls can budget .
income and get their “money’s worth” in these day
salary cuts; how they can learn about new jobs
prepare for them; how they may become more attra
and interesting to other people and to themselves,
what they can believe about questions of religion in
fast changing world of ours. Trips, discussions, dra
skits and interviews are a few of the devices sugg
for young peOple to build their own programs. a
of the four units—Your Personality, Your Money,
Vocation and Your Religion—is bound separately
all four are enclosed in a bright cover containing ~
gestions for leaders.

Officers and Directors of the Nation
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORDETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMHER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUSEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

HUGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
WILLIAH HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELAcv HYDE, Plainlield, N. J.
GUSTAvus T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. Looms, New York, N. Y.

J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRs. OGDEN L. MILLS, Washington, D. C.
FREDERch S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, J R., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

MRS. WILLIAM H. WOODIN, JR., Plaintield, N. J.

c

i
l

 

