The Home and the Art of Living

9

" HE HOME is passing.’ “The home is a thing of the past." For twenty years
we have been hear1ng such statements. And yet today the home has more
V1ta11ty than twenty years ago rather than less.

Real estate operators build special play rooms in the basements. Houses rent
better, sell better with a flreplace around which the family may gather. Never be—
fore were there so many backyard playgrounds. Families with their automobiles
picnic together in the county park thirty miles away.

The whole family listens together over the radio to Eddie Cantor and Will
Rogers and President Roosevelt. Together in easy chairs with children sprawling
on the floor the family enjoys opera, football, the Kentucky Derby. In the not
too distant future through television plays in the theatre will be widely enjoyed
in the home. Before long we shall have phonographic records of whole books. As
the family in Ireland listened on the winter evening to the Irish storyteller, so be-
fore long the family without effort, comfortable in its own home, may hear the
best stories recorded through voices such as those of Edith Wynne Matthison and

other trained speakers.

It is worth while for recreation workers. for leaders in the art of living, to
pay attention to the home, to make the home fairly central in their thinking. And
this municipal recreation systems increasingly are doing. Activities are developed
which can be carried back into the home. Mothers are trained for recreation lead-
ership in the home. Recognition is given in certain community centers to the best
in home planning, the best in home playgrounds. Pet shows give standing to the
boy's and girl's loving care of pets. Pets have a large place in developing loyalty
to the home, in making the home a more attractive place to come back to from the
excursions of adventure into the world at large.

The recreation leader has definite responsibility for increasing reading in the
home, making things in the home, developing live subjects of conversation about
nature and many other subjects for the home.

Live children with many interests and many skills help keep father and
mother from growing dull and older than they have to be. Fathers and mothers
are more eager to get back home when children and parents are sharing real living

from day to day and night to night.

Leisure, free time, takes on new meaning as the home is given new meaning as
a center of 11v1ng, as a center of mus1c, drama, nature observatlon, sklll 1n maklng

things.

Many parents find it hard to learn that after all they are only background
to be there when needed, when wanted, and that there are long stretches when in
well regulated homes all that the children want from the parents in their play
hours is silence and not too much of that.

The child with the right atmosphere in the home creates his own play world
and he must have freedom to find, express, and create himself.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

June,|933

113

Play and the Home

 

[Vestchester County, New York

"With the increasing demands upon existing pub-
lic recreation Facilities which hove come os a
result ol: increased leisure time, it is apparent
that the home playground is destined to become

a valuable supplementary means of taking care ol:

114

the recreotional needs ol: Families in many cities.
This Fact is especially true when applied by Fam-
ilies in which there are small children ol: pre-
school age who moy not easily be sent to

neighborhood play centers." Glen 0. Grant

A City-Wide Contest for Better Back Yards

 

By GLEN 0. GRANT
Assistant Superintendent

Department of Playground and Recreation
Los Angeles, California

HE MORNING paper carries the tragic news,
T “Tiny Tot Killed by Truck \Vhile at Play.”
No other problem is so close to the hearts of
parents as this: “\V here can a small child play in
safety?” Anyone having a solution for this prob-
lem will gain an interested and eager hearing
anywhere.

The modern city is unsafe for small children.
Street cars, automobiles, and other means of rapid
transit monopolize our streets. The estimate of
the International Safety Council that 25,000 little
lives have been crushed out in the busy traffic
lanes of our cities during the past five years brings
this fact forcibly to our minds. Our big cities
create the chief problem. In 1790 only three per
cent of the total population of the United States
resided in the city areas. The recent census re-
veals the fact that well above half of our popula-
tion is to be found in our cities. The trend to-

ward city life has cut down opportunities for

Photo by “Dick” FVhittington

Winners of the "Pal Sweepstakes" awarded
for the best example of family play life.

play activity, and has likewise increased very
markedly the danger to children at play. New
York City reports recently forty-two children
killed playing in the streets in one month, and in
the same period of time serious injuries to 1124
more. A recent issue of the Public School Journal
states that last year ninety-nine small children
were killed in the streets of Los Angeles.

Investigation bears out the fact that these acci-
dents, with very few exceptions, occur in un-
guarded moments when children are at play,
rather than in the normal process of crossing
streets en route to school, the store, or other des-
tinations. It is, then, while the child is at play
that danger lurks. Meeting this situation is essen-
tially a home problem.

The Home’s Responsibility

The home was the first institution around
which play and recreational activities were or-
ganized. Even today it offers the best oppor-
tunity for such eXpression. No modern play pro-
gram for the home can equal or be likened to the

115

116 A CITY-{VIBE CONTEST FOR BETTER BACK YARDS

home play of yesterday, but the benefits of such
activities can be approximated by the wise parent
of today by careful study and application to the
problem. Luther Burbank says: “Every child
should have mud pies, grasshOppers, water-bugs,
tadpoles, frogs, mud-turtles, elderberries, wild
strawberries, acorns, chestnuts, trees to climb,
brooks to wade in, water-lilies, woodchucks, bats,
bees, butterflies, various animals to pet, hay fields,
pine cones, rocks to roll, sand, snakes, huckle-
berries and hornets; and any child who has been
deprived of these has been deprived of the best
part of his education.”

Few parents realize the possibility of back yards
for playgrounds. \Vhich is more important—a
space involving 100 square feet for the ash can,
or a swing for little sister? A similar space
nionopolized by the incinerator, garbage can, trash
heap—or appropriated for a sand—box or wading
pool? A few pieces of inexpensive home-made
play apparatus can change a backyard desert into
a play oasis which will supply health and fun for
a whole family. Even a back yard is large enough
for the play of not only one small child, but half
a dozen.

The lowly back yard, once the least important
part of a home, today has assumed a permanent
position in the home life of the average family as
one of the chief forces in counteracting the mod—
ern tendency toward the scattering of the family.

 

Los Angeles Launches a Campaign

This new status of the back yard has been
achieved in Los Angeles through concerted efforts
of the Tenth District Parent-Teachers Associa—
tion of this city, and the Los Angeles Department
of Playground and Recreation, through joint
sponsorship of a city-wide back yard playground
contest, which enlisted the enthusiastic interest‘ of
hundreds of local families.

The contest was launched early in the year with
the following as its principal purposes:

(a) To stimulate parents’ active interest in the
worthy use of their children’s leisure time.

(b) To provide safe, adequate and desirable
space and materials for home recreation.

(c) To develop in the child a better apprecia—
tion of his home and a desire to make it the cen-
ter of his play life.

((1) To provide children with means for enter—
taining their playmates.

(c) To afford parents an opportunity for su-
pervising the recreation activities of their children.

(f) To bring about a closer cooperation and
understanding between parents and children
through the medium of play.

(9) To provide fathers with the opportunity
of making a definite contribution to the play life

An outstanding example of what can be ac-
complished with no expenditure OF money.

‘1

,. r

5

Photo by “chk” Whittington

A CITY-IVIDE CONTEST FOR BETTER BACK YARDS 117

of the family by the con-
struction of facilities.

(It) To stimulate a de-
sire for beautification and
utilization of back yards.

(1') To provide worthy
utilization of excess and
waste materials.

Los Angeles p a r e n t s
were given until the end
of April to complete play
centers in their back yards.
For the purpose of bring-
ing the contest within the
reach of many different
families. regardless of
their financial condition,
the event was divided into
four sections, as follows:

(a) The back yard playgrounds entered on the
basis of no cost involved, used and cast-off ma-
terials only being utilized.

((2) The backyard playgrounds entered on the
basis of a total expenditure of five dollars being
involved.

(c) The backyard playgrounds entered on the
basis of a total expenditure of fifteen dollars.

(d) The back yard playgrounds entered on the
basis of no limitation on expenditure.

\Vorking through the various Parent-Teacher
groups throughout the city, the interest of the
Father Councils was enlisted in the project, and
numerous families were launched upon the plan
of making attractive home playgrounds out of
waste areas in their back yards. In order to pro—
vide suggestions and offer advice to families
which did not know exactly how to proceed with
their plans, the Department of Playground and
Recreation distributed a number of different bul-
letins, both printed and mimeographed, which
served to provide valuable hints for those who en-
tered in the contest. A special bulletin, entitled
“ 57 Varieties of Home Fun,” was mimeographed
and given wide—spread distribution. Printed fold-
ers which contained working drawings and plans
for the construction of simple apparatus which
could be made at very little or no cost, were also
given out to those who asked for aid.

At the conclusion of the time allotted for com-
pletion of back yard playgrounds. entries were
judged on the following items, allowing a maxi-
mum of twenty points each, or a total of one hun-
dred points in all:

 

This family received the award for the
best playground mode at a cost of$5.00

(a) Suitability for use of all members of the
family.

(I?) Construction and design as to workman-
ship and aesthetic as well as practical appearance.

(c) Safety; choice of apparatus; strength,
placing of equipment to avoid accidents.

(d) Cost. (Those playgrounds equipped at the
minimum cost to be awarded the higher grade.)

(6) Originality as to ingenious use of waste
materials, utilization of limited space and similar
factors.

The huge task of judging entries throughout
the city was carried out through cooperation be-
tween the municipal playgrounds, the school play-
grounds, and the Parent—Teacher Associations.
The best back yards in each of the four classifica-
tions in each district were then submitted for
grading in the city-wide contest. In the latter,
awards of first, second and third places were
made in each of the four divisions, the awards
taking the form of certificates which were pre-
sented with due ceremony at a city-wide Parent-
Teacher Federation Convention.

The Results

Through general newspaper publicity, radio an-
nouncements, bulletin announcements, and inten-
sive promotion, and through the Parent-Teacher
organization, wide-spread interest in the contest
was aroused on the part of many parents. In the
first class. many parents showed remarkable

118 A CITY-WIDE CONTEST FOR BETTER BACK YARDS

ingenuity in transforming scraps of lumber, odds
and ends, and discarded materials, into play equip—
ment for their children and themselves. Mr. and
Mrs. Eugene Falkenberg were adjudged the win-
ners of this group. In the second division, in
which parents were limited to an expenditure of
five dollars, some line results were achieved by a
large number of entries, with Mr. and Mrs.
Edward B. Flynn winning the city-wide award in
this group. The first award in the third group
for back yards constructed at a cost of no more
than fifteen dollars, was given to Mr. and Mrs.
E. L. Hallberg as the city-wide winners, while in
the unlimited classification Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
Sodorf were first place winners.

Because of an unusually high type of famin
recreation life, as well as splendidly developed
back yard playground exhibited by Mr. and Mrs.
Dean B. Gregg and their children, a special award
called the “Pal Sweepstakes” was made to this
family. The Greggs had developed an ideal home
and recreation life for themselves, which took the
form of many different types of leisure time ac-
tivity. Their back yard was a never ending source
of interest to themselves and their friends, and
was so arranged that it could be used to great‘ ad-
vantage for many different types of games, sports
and hobbies. Even though pursuing some form
of play individually, the mem-
bers of this family made it a
point to do so in each other’s
company.

 

The playground which won first place
in the "unlimited expenditure" class.

As a result of the contest just concluded, many
back yards in Los Angeles have been transformed
from waste areas, or merely ornamental land-
scapes, into play sections where all members of
the family can enjoy their favorite sports and
recreational activities together. The tremendous
interest shown in the contest by Los Angeles par-
ents has encouraged the Parent—Teacher Federa-
tion and the Department of Playground and Rec-
reation to decide to make the contest an annual
spring event in this city.

Meanwhile, though the contest is concluded
many parents are continuing to send in requests
for bulletin material and printed literature ad-
vising them on the best methods of deve10ping
playgrounds in their backyards. The Los Angeles
Recreation Department now visualizes the promo-
tional program as a year-round affair and is
making an effort to take care of all requests for
aid as they are received.

Play Equipment for the Small Child

\V'ithout question the most practical piece of
equipment for the small child is the sand box.
This need not necessarily be large, and for the
very small child should be located on the ground,
so that the tiny tot can clamber in and out. A
seat might well be placed all the way around the
box by placing around the
edges a six-inch strip of wood.
Sand should be kept clean and
slightly moist. A shovel and a

-

I-.
m
I'—
H
1.1—!

H,

III-
in. “

Hum

,aa-l‘bc,__..=--._“.‘.  I _.

Photo by “Dick” thittington

A CITY-WIDE CONTEST FOR BETTER BACK YARDS 119

pail, toy animals, bridges,
buildings and other small
toys add to its possibili-
ties. As the child grows,
legs may well be placed
upon the table, raising it
off the ground. Many
happy hours may be spent
by the school aged child in
sand modeling with the

It cost $15 to equip this
back yard playground. It
was the best in its class.

moist sand. One ingen-
ious father managed to
keep the sand clean for
the tiny tot by providing a screen for one of the
older children and hiding numerous small objects
in the sand, thereby evolving a game of discovery
in which the sand was carefully screened to find
its contents. By the addition of a removable top
the sand table becomes a valuable piece of equip—
ment for family picnics in the backayard.

Probably the second most practical piece of
equipment for the small child is the kindergarten
swing which may later be replaced by an ordinary
swing seat for the older child. Rings and a hor-
izontal bar provide excellent equipment for the
deveIOpment of arms and shoulders, and a climb-
ing tree made of an 8x8 timber set in cement
with pieces of two—inch pipe cut in three-foot
lengths inserted every twelve inches from top to
bottom from alternate front and side will give
outlet for the desire to climb. The teeter-totter
or seesaw provides its thrills, and the slide so ar-
ranged that the sand box is used for safe landing
adds to the joy of the play haven. An alternate
for the slide may be found in the inclined pale,
which might well be made of a two-inch pipe in—
stalled from the top of the climbing tree into the
sand box. Then there is the wading pool, which
may either be installed permanently of cement
construction, or may be very easily made of can-
vas with a collapsible pipe frame to lend its con—
tribution to the fun on warm days. An ingenious
father has designed a lawn sprinkler on a raised
standard which provides a shower for his kiddies,
while watering the lawn. The doll house with all
its possibilities and such equipment as miniature

 

Photo by “Dick” Whittington

table and chairs for tea parties provide the fa-
cilities for playing house, that activity being en-
joyed by all small children. The bird house, bird
bath, and bird cafeteria are sources of continuous
delight to the small children. The large rubber
ball opens up many possibilities.

What Can We Do for the Older Children?

For the older child of elementary school age
the back yard gym composed of swing, trapeze,
rings and horizontal bar, is to be recommended.
In a space 20’x40’, paddle tennis, volley ball, hand
ball, basketball goal shooting, and many other
similar activities may be conducted. The side of
the garage will afford the back board for hand
ball. One basketball goal installed there gives op-
portunity for development of technique in bas—
ket shooting. A fine piece of equipment for the
elementary school child is a horizontal ladder in-
stalled at a height of seven feet. To provide op-
portunity for the expression of the running and
jumping instinct, high jump standards and a
broad jump pit may be provided at little eXpense.
The fish pond, or the wading pool for smaller
children, lends itself very readily to the floatng
of small boats, and here whole fleets may ply their
way from port to port. A source of never ending
delight for older children is the picnic fireplace,
which may be constructed in connection with the
householder incinerator. Here the joys of outdoor
cooking may be indulged in with comparative

(Continued on page 153)

The Flower Market Tot Lot Playground

 

A report of four summers' consecutive
service as supervisor of an unusual
playground in a city's blighted area.

ACH SUMMER the Philadelphia PlaygrOUnds
E Association has employed costumed story-
tellers to bring programs of play activities

to neighborhoods so congested that‘ even vacant lot
playgrounds are out of the question. One day while
scouting around Newmarket Street in the Dela-
ware River slum district in search of a possible
story telling station, Mr. Charles H. English, Ex-
ecutive Secretary of the Association was amazed
to see the upper branches of a tree, the lower part
of which was hidden by a twelve foot fence. In-
vestigation disclosed a vacant lot entirely sur—
rounded by buildings. This discovery led to the

120

Not a very auspicious beginning, but you'll
want to read the story for the happy ending!

By PAUL SHRIVER

Supervisor
Philadelphia Playgrounds Association

decision to develop a vacant lot playground in-
stead of a storytelling station. One of the factors
in the decision was the report from the Housing
Association that 504 children under the age of
fourteen were living in the two blocks facing this
short street.

According to local legend, on the right side of
the lot, \Villiam Penn had his first cartwright
shop where wagons and wheels were produced.
This shop looked down for its high embankment
on the mud Hats of the Delaware River. Later
these mud flats were filled in to make a street and
today it is the busy Delaware Avenue along which

THE FLOWER MARKET TOT LOT PLAYGROUND 121

trains and trucks move the traffic of goods from
all parts of the world to and from the wharves
and piers.

Fifty or a hundred years later the left side of
the lot became Philadelphia's first Flower Mart.
Several years ago a renewal of the Flower Mart
was inaugurated at Rittenhouse Square, where
for one day flowers and other products were sold
for the benefit of several welfare organizations.
Funds from this source were used to establish
and operate the “Flower Market Tot Lot Play-
ground.”

Neighborhood Conditions

The neighborhood known as “Bandboxville” is
composed of brick houses lining the sides of nar-
row courts. The entrances to most of the courts
are along the sides of business houses or through
small openings in a solid street front. These dark
alleyways are the only entrances to the homes of
the 500 children of the district. Legend tells us
that the bricks in many of the houses were hand-
made and brought over from England, as were
the hand wrought hinges and certain woods in the
decoration or frames. The houses consist of three
rooms set one on top of another like post office
boxes. There are no sewers and no plumbing.
Some of the houses have an outdoor spigot in a
small 3 by 5 feet yard. In other courts as many
as sixteen families are supplied by a single spigot.
The inside walls of most of the houses still have
the original plaster. In others the laths or outside
walls are visible. A very few are papered.

Such were the homes of the children who were
to attend our playground.

The surroundings of the plot itself were equally
deplorable. On the west side were the narrow ill
lighted, foul smelling courts at the end of which
was the fourteen foot board fence. Over this
fence onto the plot' had been dumped the garbage,
refuse, boxes and papers which were not thrown
out into the courts or streets. On the east side
the back doors of the fruit commission houses
looked out on the plot. Decayed fruit was thrown
out on the plot or heaped beside the doors where
any child chancing to come in could pick it up
and throw it around, plastering the walls of
buildings on all sides. On the north side stood an
old abandoned brewery with its two 100 foot malt
towers rising into the air like ancient Drop Shot
towers used in making bullets. To balance the
picture artistically, two gnarled trees on the south
side of the plot arose in the shade of an aban-

doned candle factory unused for over fifty years.
Some of the old hand molds for hand poured
candles were still fastened to several benches.
“Speakeasies” were everywhere.

The Residents

The adults in this "bandhox" community were
a mixture of Russian, Slavic, Irish and colored.
The men were former workers at Baldwin Loco-
motive 1Works or stevedores. A few worked in
factories or shops but as a whole very few worked
steadily at anything, even before the depression.
They were paid $1.00 a day for ten hours' w0rk
except when a few banana boats came in. Steve-
dores on piece or time work might make $2.00 or
$3.00 a day. The desire to work did not burn
high among most! They preferred a few days
work with the rest of the time spent in drink—
ing, bootlegging, crap shooting, or “playing the
numbers.”

The women were a low type of mentality.
Many of them were scrub women; a few did
housework; some helped in the manufacture and
sale of home brew. Taken as a whole, they were
fighters and drinkers,but they were good workers.
Their scale of living was very low. In some cases
families ate out of a common bowl or a pot set
on the table, and no forks or spoons were used.
Children came or went as they pleased with no
care. Some families, on the other hand. lived in
good circumstances and made of their headquar-
ters neat and comfortable homes. The men worked
steadily and made real homes for their families.
lut these instances were few and far between.

The young men had little work and less desire
to hunt for any if they could exist on the bounty
of parents or friends. Crap shooting on the cor-
ners and up the courts where they could not be
seen by the police was a popular pastime. The
gangs of young men were clannish, and the small
side streets adjoining the block in which the Tot
Lot is the center each had its own gang known
as the “New Street Rangers,” “Cherry Street
Gang,” “Laurence and Noble Street Rain Cats,”
and the “Gang from Across the Railroad Tracks.”
Brawls raging up and down the streets were
more than likely to be carried down to the river
front and into the freight yards where the par-
ticipants were more secure against police inter-
ference.

The occupations of the young men were varied
when they worked. Some were newspaper boys,
telegraph boys or laborers, but most of them

122 THE FLOIVER MARKET TOT LOT PLAYGROUND

waited for the day or two of work as stevedores
on banana boats or among the fruit commission
houses. Stealing was considered an art and a law
something to be broken. Several had criminal
records for entering warehouses, safe cracking
or petty larceny.

The girls were forced to work wherever they
could get it. Few were permitted to stay at home
very long unless they brought in money in one
way or another. There was little real pleasure in
their lives for their parents demanded practi—
cally all their earnings. The girls who lived
among the lower strata, if they hoped for any-
thing better, invariably ran away from home.

The children were young animals and the “call
of the pack” ruled them all. Might made right.
Many of those over four years old were forced
by their parents to get up as early as 4:30 and
5 :00 o’clock during the summer to bring in a cer-
tain amount of wood and food. The wood they
secured from boxes set out by commission houses,
crates from furniture stores and scrap pieces from
factories or demolished buildings. The food was
obtained from the gutters outside the fruit stores,
from garbage pails and restaurants or was stolen.

During the school season many of the boys
were truants and many special orthogenic back-
ward and orthogenic disciplinary children. They
had many private means of income such as sell-
ing boxes,barrels and rags,
and stealing. The money
they secured they used
to buy food at corner “hot
dog” stands or restau-
rants, and for recreation
at cheap movie houses or
for gambling.

Popular Recreation

During our hrst sum-
mer’s study of the situa-
tion we found eleven ma-
jor sports indulged in by
these boys.

(1) Swimming in the
oily Delaware and diving
off the ends of the wharves
or piers.

(2) Hopping on the
rear ends of wagons and
trucks and stealing any-
thing on it they could
throw off.

(3) Cutting ropes on farmers’ trucks and
wagons to steal fruit or produce or from sheer
(lestructiveness.

(4) Breaking into commission houses and
warehouses during off periods when they were
closed.

(5) Creating disturbance at doors or en-
trances or in some part of a store while one boy
stole something to eat or worth pawning.

(6) \Vholesale robbery along the water front
or commission houses (called “going down
fruities”).

(7) Tormenting cops and watchmen.

(8) Being chased by police bandit cars (Red
Devils) and then escaping over back fences and
up the poorly lighted courts.

(9) Insulting passersby with their remarks.
([0) Foul language.

(I I) Crap shooting for pennies and card play-
ing for money or anything useful which might be
bartered or pawned and which most likely had
been stolen.

Dr. Stuckey, Professor of Sociology at Tem-
ple University, conducted a summer class on a
tour of investigation down through this section

They were a little timid at the First about
entering—it was all so strange to them.

 

THE FLOWER MARKET TOT LOT PLAYGROUND 123

in 1929. These eleven-degraded forms of recre-
ation listed are only a few they found. He made
this statement: “I was able to find practically no
children who knew how to'play at all. All of
their instincts seemed destructive. It seemed im-
possible to find any constructive abilities either
from observation or through questioning.”

The figures compiled by the \Vickersham Com-
mission on the crime records of youngsters in this
district are as follows: 48.2 per cent stealing; 14
per cent running away from home; 11.7 per cent
destruction of property; 8.5 per cent truancy;
6 per cent incorrigibility; 2.4 per cent sex of-
fenses; 9.2 per cent miscellaneous.

Such was the social, physical and economic
background of the community in which we were
to start our play center adventure.

We Begin Activities

For nearly a week previous to the opening of
the playground several men were kept busy clear~
ing away the refuse. Everything burnable was
piled up and burned. Bricks, stones and other
heavy articles were heaped on one side. Council-
man Nickel loaned several trucks and these were
kept busy hauling away the rest of the refuse.

Finally came the notable Opening day! We had
printed signs notifying the neighborhood of our
plans and telling the operating hours. Several
hOUrs before we arrived, we were told, children
had gotten up early to gather their quota of wood
and food so that they could be at the playground
on time. Something, however, had happened to
frighten the children away, for when I walked
up the narrow court with two play leaders only a
few timid, pale children were visible peeping out
of side yard doors. An air of suspicion seemed to
'permeate the atmosphere. Finally we coaxed sev-
eral into the lot and some of the bolder ones
peeped in.

I had brought 'only a dozen rubber balls with
me for we.wanted to build our program around
the idea of using material to be found in the
neighborhood, such as scraps of wood and dis-
carded articles. This plan was used so that we
.could educate these children to be resourceful in
their play. life even under a discouraging situation.

Balls began playing in the air. .Boys soon came
trooping in through holes in the fence and from
strange entrances everywhere. They ran around
the cleared space like mad tops loosened by a
giant string! Girls began to skip happily back
and forth on a strip of pavement uncovered after

years of disuse. It was not long, however, before
the crowd became restless and the habitual spirit
of mob rule, the usual rough and tumble attitude,
interfered with other activities.

Fortunately for our first day’s experience, a
load of sand arrived for the improvised sand
court. This was a new adventure for the children
who all wanted to help bring in the sand. And
their help was needed, for no truck could come
through the court leading to our playground. The
street was 100 yards away and the only entrance
was the narrow court and a hole --"in the high
board fence. The children used boxes, garbage
pails, buckets and every kind of vehicle-imagin—
able—express wagons, baby carriages,‘ doll
coaches, anything on wheels that could carry that
sand into the playground! This was their first
evidence of community spirit and the breaking
down of that destructive gang spirit which was
to be an important achievement of our efforts
through four years of play leadership.

But we were not yet ready for our play pro-
gram although we had a sand pile and our plot
was cleared, for glass from broken bottles, de-
posited through many years, began working up
through the soil. Everybody set to work with 'a
will. for we were getting ready for 0111‘ first
Fourth of July celebration. Shovels, rakes,
buckets, boxes and all the rest of the sand car-
riers were again brought into play. Sturdy little
backs were bent. Everywhere arose the cry,. “Let
me help!” This cry died away and was reborn
many times, but it has finally become a martial
cry of triumph and victory.

Next we decided to paint the fence green to
make up for the lack of grass' or green foliage.
We whitewashed the rest of the walls and nearly
everything else in sight. Then we chlorinated the
ground to get rid of the fumes from the rotted
garbage.

The First Year’s Experience

During the first year we found small children
excellent helpers. They were interested in games
or any activities we started but they played only
while a leader was with them. They quarreled
among themselves or were eventually scared away
by the roughness and selfishness of the older boys.
The older group stuck with us for a while but
they soon lost interest because there was no ball
field. They did not know how to play anything
but baseball, or how to adapt their method of
play to this small space. A few of the older group

124 THE FLOWER MARKET TOT LOT PLAYGROUND

were interested in handcraft of various sorts but

their span of inter-
est was short. Tools
brought into use on
the w o r k were
stolen. Funds from
the Playgrounds As-
sociation w e r e
v e r y limited.
L u m b e r was
scare as most of
it was used for
firewood. W e
were forced to
turn to o t h e r
sources for our
handcraft mate-
rial.

The situation
became a chal-
lenge to the re—
sourcefulness of
leaders as well as
children. We
managed
to have a
parade of
lanterns
made chief -
ly f r o m
portions of
o r a n g e
crates and
tissue pa-
per. Our miniature Mardi Gras had several large
floats but most were rather crude. The parades
through the neighborhood did not have the edu—
cational effect desired, though the project was
not an absolute failure, because the boys who
were not interested broke up the lanterns or tloats
after the parade had gone a short way or snatched
them from younger children parading! The spirit
of sportsmanship was absolutely lacking and there
was little desire for inter-playground competition.
Children came and went. Every day there were
new faces. None were regular attendants.

Our pet show was the first blow struck at the
existing spirit of cruelty. Arrangements were
made with the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals to present ribbons to every
person bringing a pet. The date was set through
an interesting incident. One day a dOg suddenly
appeared through the hole in the fence, trotting

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
  

. -I . ~ 9. k y?“ ' i ' 
.- JQH" I! \ ‘5 '

. - 1"“ '1‘“ xiii! .43. 
It was marble golf which provided the first

 

evidence of success in cooperative proiects.

along by his master’s side, wagging his tail hap—
pily. \Ve were amazed to see a dog with no tin
can tied to his tail. Now was our chance! The
date was set and a pet circus announced. The
children had few pets of their own. Nevertheless
we had forty entries. Dogs that had known the
freedom of the city streets all their unnatural lives
suddenly appeared walking sedately or led by an
impromptu leash made from mother’s clothes line.
Cats that had climbed telegraph poles to elude
their pursuers found themselves caged in ham-
pers made, of fruit boxes with mosquito netting
for covering. Animals belonging to the farm-
yard rather than city streets were suddenly
brought forth by grinning owners. And no aris-
tocrats of the animal kingdom were guarded with

THE FLOWER MARKET TOT LOT PLAYGROUND 125

more zealous care than those stray pups, alley
cats and mangey rabbits. And every one was a
winner!

The second thing which helped teach the chil-
dren to do things for each other was the contri-
bution of a large rocking boat with seats. This
held about twenty children and could be rocked
up and down like a see—saw by the concentrated
efforts of children seated at either end. The
donor of the rocking boat, who had read about
our new venture in the playground field through
newspaper articles, also gave us two small merry-
go-rounds, each holding fifteen children. These
were operated by hand but someone had to walk
around and be the pusher part of the time. Here
again we instituted the idea of helping one an-
other. It‘ became a dignified thing to be a pusher
even among the older group of young people over
fifteen who were admitted as visitors or helpers.

At the conclusion of our first year's work we
came to realize the need for a small children’s
playground. Too many very small children were
playing in these courts or around the curb brav—
ing the danger of the street rather than face phy-
sical conflict with older children on the play-
ground.

A number of good results from the summer’s
program were evident. First, its beneficial influ-
ence was felt by the business men. The previous
summer twenty-five or more places had been
broken into. This summer not a single st'ore had
been entered. The Northern Liberties Business
Men's Association sent a representative to ex-
press the gratitude of the association.

Encouraging comment also come from Camp
Happy, the municipal camp for underweight chil—
dren. An official of the camp visiting the district
said: “It surprises me that the children are not so
anxious to go to camp this summer. I have
noticed fewer underweight children than ever be-
fore. The children look spick and span and happy.
This is the first time I have missed a fight in this
court. The playground is
bringing people to th e i r
senses. They seem to be tak-
ing a greater pride in the
community and in th e i r
homes. I am glad to wel—
come so useful a rival.”

The Second Year’s Program

The second year we limit»
ed the age of the children to

"Persons between the ages of LS and 30
constitute 50 per cent of the population
of the United States. Yet according to
Warden Lawes of Sing Sing they consti-
tute 73 per cent of our criminals. Hence
the country’s problem is with its youth.
And unless society can prove that it has
done its full duty toward the young, it is
not Free From some share ofthe guilt for
which these offenders are punished."—

Dr. S. Parke: Cadman.

twelve years and under and planned a prOgram of
activities for younger children. The few older
who really wanted to help were organized into a
helpers’ squad and junior police. The rest of the
children were sent to a playground six blocks
away where there was more space for play.

This year various parts of the ground were
given names. The rocking— boat became “Noah’s
Ark,” the merry-go-rounds “Coney Island” and
“Woodside Ferris Wheel,” the sand pile “Atlan-
tic City,” and a new activity, a combination vege»
table and flower garden in an out of the way
corner became the “Garden of Eden.” We con-
centrated on the sand box for a while, and every
day we saw a multitude of caves, houses, fish, and
all sorts of castles and walks. The little tots of
four or five learned how to cooperate, for there
were so many of them that each had to stay in a
small allotted space and build with what sand was
in his territory.

The first evidence of cooperative handcraft
carried on by a large group of boys began with
marble golf. Older boys who had been ignored
except as helpers to clean up or supervise activi-
ties. banded together with their friends to con-
struct a most unique course. Rain spouts set up
various angles, a discarded water pipe through
the crotch of two trees, half an automobile tire,
and wooden troughs contorted and placed around
corners of the sand box, fence and trees, all
served to provide unusual handicaps for our
miniature golf course. The handicaps were nec—
essarily light in structure and therefore easily de-
stroyed. Thus came our chance to drive home the
idea of care of property. Woe betide the boy who
accidentally or unintentionally smashed one of the
handicaps!

A peculiar distorted pride arose among regular
patrons of the playground this season which
seemed to be a mixture of jealousy and selfish—
ness. Children from streets within two squares
or more who had come in occasionally to visit
were forbidden by the chil-
dren of Newmarket Street:
from coming again. We tried
to counteract this by inviting
other children in whenever
the opportunity offered, but
we were not altogether suc-
cessful in eliminating the
street gang antagonism which
was very deep rooted. We

(Continued on page 154)

Planning the Picnic Grounds

The fun of picnicking is greatly increased when

the physical facilities are adequately planned.

nic grounds, two general
types of ground should be
considered:

IN MAKING provision for pic-—

(I) The picnic ground designed for the use of
large organized groups, such as the employees of
a factory or large store, members of a church or
Sunday School, lodges, schools, labor unions and
similar groups.

(2) Picnic grounds intended for the use of
individual families or other small groups picnick-
ing without any relation to each other. This type
of ground may also be planned for the use of
very large numbers in any one place or for a few
people. Grounds designed for organized picnics
may also be used by individual small groups at
times when they are not in use by large organized
groups. Consequently, no hard and fast distinc-
tion can be made between the two types. Differ-
ences between them will appear more clearly in
the following detailed discussion of each type.

Large Group Picnic Grounds

Special care should be exercised in selecting
grounds for the use of large organized groups.
The area should be a reasonably level, well
drained and partly shaded and partly open field.
If the ground can be located on the bank of a
stream or the shore of a lake, its desirability is
greatly increased, although these desirable topo-
graphical features are not absolutely essential to
a successful picnic ground.
There is no rule as to the
proportion of wooded area to
open ground, but in general
the wooded area should be
several times the size of the
open space, since the primary
reason for.the open space is
to provide opportunity for
conducting a games and

126

By L. H. WEIR

National Recreation Association

People in increasing numbers are going
picnicking. There are a number of im-
portant considerations involved in selec-
ting and equipping the picnic site “which
have a decided bearing on the enioyment about equally divided be-
Mr. Weir points out
some of these in this statement taken
from a report which he made to the
Mayor of Reading Pa., after a study of
the resources of Mt. Penn Park. ii

of the picnickers.

sports program which is uSUally
not participated in except by a
small percentage of the pic-
nickers.

It is a question whether special provision for
parking should be made for this type of ground.
The majority of people will prefer to drive into
the grove itself and to park there, but on the
whole it will probably be wise. to have a special
parking area in view when selecting an organized
picnic ground. This is especially true if the
wooded area itself is not of great extent.

The equipment of an organized picnic ground
may be held down to a minimum, or may be
equipped in an elaborate manner after the pattern
of commercial parks.

Toilets. Adequate toilet facilities, along with
adequate water supply, rank first in equipment.
T hey should be adequate not only as to the num-
ber of seats but also in standards of conformity
to the best sanitary regulations. \Vhere running
water can be obtained, the best type of toilet to
install is, of course the modern sanitary flush
toilet. Modern sanitary toilets approved by the
State Health Department or the local health au-
thorities may be used where it is not possible to
have flush toilets. As to the number of seats that
should be provided for any given picnic ground,
it is difficult to fix a standard such as has been
definitely fixed for schools and organized camps.
However, if one seat is provided for every two
hundred to two hundred and
fifty people in actual attend-
ance, the installation will not
be far from an adequate
standard. They should be

tween the sexes. The toilets
for the boys and men and
for the girls and women
should preferably be in

PLANNING THE PICNIC GROUNDS 127

different parts of the grounds
and not combined in one

structure.

Water Supply. The most
approved method of water

supply is to pipe water to
the picnic grounds from the
mains of the city water sup—
ply, if this is at all possible,
and to install two or more
sanitary drinking fountains
and two or more faucets for
drawing water and for use in
sprinkling the ground. As a
substitute for this method of
water SUpply driven wells are
best and safest. Springs in
or within the vicinity of
largely used park areas
should be under suspicion at
all times and should generally
be closed unless they are so situated topographi-
cally that people cannot come very near their
drainage area. All springs which are used should
be enclosed in concrete vaults and the area above
them for a considerable distance should be closed
to the public. All wells should be capped with a
covering of concrete of not less than sixteen
square feet in area, and the top immediately under
the pump spout so constructed that all surplus
water will be caught and directed into a drain to
some point twenty or thirty feet away from the
vicinity of the well. An iron force pump bolted
on to the concrete cap completes the equipment.
The common drinking cup should be absolutely
prohibited. Frequent tests should be made of
water from springs and wells by the health
authorities.

Tables and Benches. Every organized picnic
ground should be equipped with a large number
of tables and benches. The combination table and
benches of a size capable of seating from eight to
ten people comfortably is perhaps the best type to
use. It is not so large as to be too heavy to handle
easily and yet is large enough to accommodate a
family or other small group. If larger groups
wish to dine together it is very easy to place the
tables and benches end to end. When the number
of tables becomes very large, their storage in win—-
ter. becomes a difficult problem because of the
amount of space they require. In some reserva-
tions, especially in the United States Forest Res-

 

._.._ ..g_._ I.

This type of oven is used in the picnic
grounds of Winona County Park, Minnesota.

ervations in the \Vest and some of the county
reservations in the same region, a type of knock—
down table and bench is used which greatly fa—
cilitates storage although it requires more effort
and time to take them down and set them up again
than it does to handle the ordinary type of
benches. Benches and tables should be kept well
painted and in constant repair. Neglect in these
two important items of maintenance will result in
a short life for the equipment.

In organized picnic grounds it will probably be
desirable to have a large number of benches sep-
arate from the tables for the reason that often
the program of such picnics includes speaking or
a musical or a dramatic program. The benches
may be used also for spectators in viewing sports
and games.

There is no standard I'g’overning the desirable
number of combination tables and benches and
of separate benches that should be provided at
any given picnic ground. Experience alone will
determine the need in any particular place.

Ovens. Numerous small portable or perma—
nent ovens or open grates should be providedd at
the large picnic centers. The ovens in use in park
systems of this country are many different types.
In some ovens wood is burned; in others,
charcoal.

128 PLANNING THE PICNIC GROUNDS

At the large organized picnic grounds it may
be found desirable to have at least one barbecue
pit and one or more very large ovens capable of
SUpplying heat and cooking space enough for the
preparation of large quantities of food at one
time. Some organized groups will want to prepare
all the food for the feeding of the picnickers
after the fashion of an army in the field. Such
large ovens can be constructed so that one chim-
ney or flue will serve for either two or three or
four ovens.

Fuel Supply. It is the common practice for
park authorities to furnish wood to picnickers
free. In the initial stages of cleaning up and
opening up of large reservations this may be quite
possible without great expense, but later it will
become necessary to
conserve fuel. It is
doubtful whether in
very large reserva—
tions decayed trees
and windfalls will
p r o v i d e suliicient
source of supply
where there is a
large use of the areas
for picnicking. \Vhen
wood is furnished
free, people use it
extravagantly. It is
suggested that a
small charge for a
given Sized bundle would
aid very much in conserv—
ing the supply and would
be a perfectly legitimate charge for the park
and recreation authority to make. Ultimately
charcoal will probably have to be used, and this
could be kept on sale at the refreshment stands.
A bag of charcoal costing 25 cents would be suf-
ficient for all the necessary cooking for any small
group and perhaps might be sufficient for two
picnics for such a grOUp.

Shelters. A shelter of some kind is an essen-
tial equipment of an organized picnic ground.
While it is true that large numbers of picnickers
may find shelter in the case of a sudden storm in
their own conveyances, at grounds of this type
there are likely to be many people present with-
out conveyances of their own. Moreover, it may
be necessary to dine or to conduct parts of the
program under shelter in case of rain. The shel-

 

Sturdy benches for the use of those watching
events are desirable. This type, which is used
in the Hartford parks, has a strong rear brace.

ter may be of a very simple design consisting only
of a roof resting on posts set in the ground or in
concrete in the ground, or it may be an elaborate
structure with concrete or wood floor, partially
or wholly sided, equipped with large fireplace,
toilets, refreshment counter, tables, benches or
chairs, rest room for women, and similar facili-
ties. Such a structure may also serve for a dance
pavilion or an auditorium. There are no stand-
ards as to size. It would be possible to pack as
many as a thousand persons under a roofed
structure covering a space 40 by 100 feet. This,
of course, permits of standing room only. In
forest reservations shelters of rustic design would
be more in harmony with the natural environment

than other possible designs.

RefreshmentStands.
While the refresh-

ment stand may not
be considered an ab-
solutely essential fea—
ture of the equip—
ment of an organiz-
ed picnic ground, it
at least is a very de-
sirable feature.These
stands might well
provide in addition
to the usual confec-
tions, coffee a nd
other hot drinks,
pies, cakes, and pos-
sibly such st‘aples as cof—
fee, tea, sugar, butter,
pepper, salt, rolls or bread,

milk, and bags of charcoal. People often forget

some of their needful picnic supplies, and expe-
rience will soon show what things are most in
demand. These stands might also keep certain
kinds of picnic equipment for rent, such as cof-
fee pots, skillets, drinking cups, and for sale such
things as paper plates, napkins, table cloths and
paper cups. In other words, it might prove a
great convenience if one could secure all neces-
sary food stuffs and equipment on the ground
itself for a picnic.

At Hartford, Connecticut, the Park and Recre-
ation Department has developed organized picnic
service to such a degree that the Refectory Serv-
ice Department prepares and serves all food for a
large organized picnic if the group so desires,
charging, of course, a fixed price per plate for

PLANNING THE PICNIC GROUNDS 129

the service. The operation of these refreshment
stands and supply stands may either be under a
concession plan or by the recreation department
with its own employees. Where the volume of
business is large enough to warrant the employ-
ment of a hrst-class director or manager of re-
fectories and refreshment stands, direct depart-
mental handling of this service is preferable.

Children’s Play Area. Every picnic area of this
kind should have an area especially set aside and
equipped for the use of the children. It should
be located in the grove somewhat outside of the
space or spaces where the mass of the picnickers
congregate. The equipment may comprise sand
pile or piles, a few swings, teeters, merry-go-round
and slides. The equipment of the children’s play-
ground may be, of course, the ordinary commer-
cial manufactured equipment such as is used on
municipal playgrounds, but in these picnic play-
grounds there is opportunity for the exercise of
some originality more in harmony with the en-
vironment. For example, the sand may be placed
in a huge pile or hillock instead of the usual sand
box; the teeters may be constructed of logs with
heavy planks of the proper ,length placed across
them; the swings may be of rustic design and oc-
casionally a swing may be hung from the limb of
a large tree or from a small tree bole suspended
between two trees; a combination balancing beam
and teeter may be constructed of the bole of a
large flexible tree mounted horizontally on stout
horses with the upper or more flexible part of
the tree swinging free. If there is no natural

wading place a miniature lake may be created as.

a wading pool; by the use of shrub plantations a
veritable fairyland brought into being, peopled
with images of gnomes, fairies and characters
from Mother Goose rhymes and other books
which children delight in. In short, by the use
of a little ingenuity and imagination the chil-
dren’s play picnic area may be made a most un-
usual, delightful and attractive feature of the
organized picnic ground.

Sports and Games Areas. This area ShOUld be
large enough for a regulation baseball diamond

and possibly several smaller diamonds. The mini-
mum desirable area should range from three to
hve acres. Except where such a field is intended
for general and more or less constant use as a
part of the standard equipment of the park, it is
hardly necessary to go to the expense of con-
structing a hrst-class diamond. A reasonably

level, well turfed area is all that is fundamentally
necessary. It is probably true, however, that the
picnickers from a large industrial plant, for ex-
ample, will have two or more baseball teams, and
a game or games between or among them will
likely be a prominent feature of the program. In
such instances the players will probably want a
well constructed and equipped held. Horseshoe
pit'ching or quoit pitching places may be located
among the trees of the grove or in the open held.
Running races can be staged in the open held.
It is possible to play very amusing games with the
soft baseball on a diamond laid out among the
trees, the trees creating very unexpected hazards.
If there is a body of water adjacent to the picnic
ground some kinds of water sports might be con-
ducted. Some picnic grounds might be equipped
with a dancing platform and boxing stage.

Musical, Dramatic or Speaking Programs. Very
often the program of an organized picnic will in-

clude a musical program, a dramatic performance
or public speaking, or possibly all three types of
activities. The simplest manner of meeting the
requirements for these activities would be the in-
stallation of a combination band stand and stage,
but a more attractive way would be the construc-
tion of an outdoor theatre entirely naturalistic in
design. It has already been suggested that the
shelter house may be so constructed as to meet
the requirements for these activities.

Small Group Picnic Grounds

The picnic ground designed for families or
other small groups having no organized relation
to each other may vary in size from a space for
the accommodation of one small group only to a
space htted to accommodate hundreds of groups
at one time. The utmost latitude may be exer-
cised in their location, consideration always be-
ing given to safety from forest hres. Picnicking
of this form may successfully be carried on in
places having no equipment whatever, a small
cleared place of reasonably level ground with
some shade being all that is necessary. But as a
rule even in the smallest places it is desirable to
have combination table and benches, and possibly
a small oven or open grate.

In the larger places set aside for this type of
picnicking there should be numerous tables with
benches, ovens, toilet structures for both sexes,
adequate water supply, and perhaps some type of
a shelter. A very attractive feature found in some

(Continued on page 156)

A Self-Supporting Circus

By HARRY H. STOOPS

Director of Summer Activities

Berkeley, California

Are you making your plans for a
playground circus this summer?

tures which will interest a large group of

men, women and children over a long pe-
riod of time and yet requires no expenditure of
funds is bound to be of interest to recreation
workers in these days of budget cutting. Such an
event has been found most successful in Berke—
ley, where the annual summer playground circus
under the direction of Charles \V. Davis. Super-
intendent of Recreation and Parks, has supported
itself for the past two years and has increased
each year in number of participants. audience and
properties.

The circus had its beginning in 1931 when the
need was felt for some event which would be
sufficiently interesting to hold the attention of a
large group during the summer months. In plan-
ning the feature as many recreational activities as
possible were incorporated in it. The scope of
the day’s activities was broad enough to embrace

a M; RECREATIONAL event incorporating fea-

 ' , -‘*-...._.-.

Courtesy California Parent-Teacher

130

 

What goes into the planning of the play-
ground circus? A great deal, according to
a director who has survived two such
events which, in spite of the vost amount

of detailed work involved, are rapidly
growing in popularity with participants
and spectators alike as the gala, crown-
ing event of the playground season.

 

varied interests and require a large number of
children to make certain its success.

The Berkeley playground circus lasts two days.
On the afternoon previous to circus day a parade
is held, when approximately 250 gaily dressed
children tour the city in trucks loaned by mer-
chants advertising the supreme event of the mor-
row. The route leads past all of the twenty-one
playgrounds, as well as along the main streets of
the city.

The Day’s Program

Circus day begins at 6:00 A. M. and ends at
6:00 P. M. All booths, rings, and other para-
phernalia are set up from 6 :00 to 10:00 A. M. by
the children under the direction of the play lead—
ers. Each of the twenty—one playgrounds has sev-
eral definite units in the day’s events. At 10:00
A. M. the gates are opened and the side shows,
concessions and food sales are ready for business!

.._.gw.

A SELF-SUPPORTING CIRCUS 131

 

Courtesy California Parent-Teacher

At I :30 these activities
cease and everyone pre-
pares for the big three
ring performance which is preceded by a parade
of performers around the rings.

At the completion of the parade the show, con-
sisting of two hours of diversified entertainment,
begins with the usual ballyhoo of a leather-lunged
ringmaster. Stunts follow in rapid fire succession,
and at 4:00 P. M. booths are once more open for
business. Games of skill, composed for the most
part of elements of sports, are operated at most
of these booths. Side shows and food sales com-
plete the features to be found in the “joy zone.”
At 5 :00 P. M. a siren is sounded and the day is
ended. Down come the booths. Properties are
salvaged. and by 6:00 P. M. only waste paper and
debris remain to tell the story of another success-
ful circus!

Balancing the Budget

Costumes, animals, food, lumber, ropes and
other supplies brought the expenses of the 1932
circus to approximately $300. The financing of
the event is made possible by the use of the car-
nival idea. Proceeds from side shows, conces-
sions, and the sale of food are sufficient to pay
all expenses. Adults are charged a 10 cent ad-
mission to the grounds. All children up to eigh-
teen years of age are admitted free. Penny suck-
ers are given as prizes. No effort is made to make
money at the expense of the children, and at all
times the patrons are given their money’s worth
whether it is in food or any of the penny skill
games.

No money is handled by children; only tickets
are acceptable at the booths. Five cent and one

A thrilling feature of the Emerson School
P. T. A. circus at San Luis Obispo, Calif.

cent tickets are sold at five
conveniently located ticket
stations, and the funds from
the sale of the tickets are

collected at frequent inter-
vals, allowing no opportun-
ity for a surplus to accumu-
late. Responsibility for the
money rests with a commit-
tee of two play leaders and
the director of the sum-
mer’s activities. All mate-
rials are purchased on con-
signment and only those
used are paid for, all others
being returnable. No funds
are provided from the bud-
get of the Recreation De-
partment for this circus. All materials are pur-
chased on credit established by the directors in
charge, who are so confident of the success of the
event that they are willing to underwrite all finan-
cial obligations!

Organizing for the Circus

No description of the features of the circus
program will be given here. Programs vary and
much has been written on the subject.

In arranging for the printed program in Ber-
keley, we find a merchant who is willing to pay
for the cost of the printing and the program is
set up in such a way as to make it easy for the
spectator to follow on his program the events
which are taking place on the field.

Among the features which comprised the circus
program for 1932 were:

-'

Pirate dance Magician
Balloon dance Polo game
Ballet dancers Spanish fiesta
Freaks Horse riding
Clown dance Tumbling
Chariot race Boxing

Corp of monkeys shot Wrestling

from a cannon Pyramid building

Clowns Tight rope walker
Animals Flag drill
Balloon boxing Cock tight

Cowboys, Indians Clown football game

Committee Organization

The organization for the program begins about
six weeks prior to the scheduled date. The lead-
ers on the playgrounds are assigned to commit-
tees. the chairmen of which meet from four to

132 A SELF-SUPPORTING CIRCUS

five times before circus day. Lists of the stunts,
side shows, concessions and food sales are pre—
sented to the play leaders, and each playground
decides what it is going to do at the circus.

The committees are divided into the following
groups: Arrangements and Finance; Purchasing,
Publicity, Parade and Ballyhoo, Grounds and
Booths, Properties, Program, and Concessions
and Side Shows. The directors are given a choice
of the committees on which they wish to work.

The Arrangements and Finance Committee ap-
points a general chairman of the circus, has gen-
eral supervision of plans, arranges for and plans
committee meetings, secures the printing of the
program, establishes credit, certifies all expendi-
tures, fixes admission prices, arranges for the sale,
distribution and collection of tickets and for gate-
men. It is responsible for all complimentary
tickets, the handling of all money, the payment of
bills, and the preparation of the final report.

The Purchasing Committee determines what
has to be purchased, obtains the best possible
prices for the articles, arranges for delivery and
return of extra supplies, determines the contents
and price of grab bags, procures the broadcast
car, Calliope and truck, signs for the truck and
arranges for the printing and purchasing of
tickets.

Publicity is the duty of another committee
which gathers information for newspaper articles,
arranges for photographs, organizes a poster con-
test and sees that posters are dis-
tributed throughout the city and
to parents. The committee also
plans window displays, radio an-
nouncements, theatre
advertisements, and is
responsible for the
preparation of lists of
participants.

Taking charge of
the parade, determin-
ing entries, choosing
the course, obtaining
trucks, arranging for
p 01 i c e cooperation,
choosing the ringmas-
ter and the ballyhoo
artists, comprise the
duties of the Parade
and iallyhoo Com-
mittee.

The workers com-

uRegular In every respect was the Emerson

P. T. A. Circus! Of course there was a band!

Can rtesy California Parent-Teacher

prising the Grounds and Booths Committee are
faced with no easy task. They must plan the lay-
out of the concessions, side shows and main rings;
locate the booths; arrange for the construction,
decoration and demobilization of the booths and
rings; salvage all usable equipment; plan for the
make—up room, and for information and lost and
found booths; put up all signs and see that they
are returned; distribute ticket cans; lock all gates
other than entrances used ; arrange for a property
room, and see that lavatories are open.

The Properties Committee has as its task the
location of all properties needed and the requisi-
tion of all articles and materials which must be
purchased. It must see that all properties are at
the circus grounds the day before the perform-
ance, be responsible for borrowed articles and
see that they are returned to their owners, make
all necessary signs, check on all equipment needed
for construction and performance, follow up all
requisitions prior to the day before the circus,
and cooperate with the finance and purchasing
committees in the matter of materials to be
purchased. .

The Program Committee checks on all the
phases of the program, arranges the order of
events, makes out the program, plans for ring
attendants, ringmaster and amplifiers, sees that
the program has proper sequence, schedules re—
hearsals and the seating of participants, and

secures music.
T h e Concessions

and Side Show Com-
mittee assigns food
sales to the play-

 

A SELF—SUPPORTING CIRCUS

grounds, determines the amount needed, ar—
ranges for distribution, delivery and collection of
extras, checks on salesmen, rehearsals and loca-
tion of the shows, arrange for side shows and
procures a list of all acts and performers.

Cooperation between the members of all of
these committees is essential in order to insure
successful results.

A method of checking Up on arrangements is
instituted two weeks before the big day to make
sure that everything is being accomplished. All
committees are included in this check up. Lists
of specific duties are released and verified by the
committee chairmen. On the Saturday previous
to the circus day a final check up is made. Prop—
erty lists are com-
piled and a final set
of instructions is
drawn up for direc-
tors. This final sheet
contains information
concerning the con—
struction, In a i n t e—
nance and final clos-
ing of the booths and
information concern-
ing general items of
interest and the pro—
cedure before, dur—
ing and after the
program.

Courtesy Yosemite Park and Curry Co.

In the Joy Zone

Among the side
shows in the “joy zone” are
a puppet show, fortune tell-
ing booths, freaks, house of
horrors, and a pony riding concession. Peanuts,
grab bags, soda water, lemonade, crackerjack,
gum, hot‘ dogs, doughnuts, candy and ice cream
are the items found on the circus menu. Any of
these may be purchased for a 5 cent ticket, while
the side shows and concessions cost but one cent
each. '

The concessions include checking, information,
and lost and found booths, baseball throw, nail
driving, ten pins, darts, knock over, nut tree, f oot—
ball throw, hang it, sink the shot, ring the duck,
fish pond, ball and pins, and basket shooting. All
of these games of skill are tested for their dif-
ficulty, keeping in mind the fact that children are

the ones to be pleased.

There were clowns, acrobats and animals ga-
lore. And there were the Dancing Goops!

133

Properties and Equipment

All materials, costumes, animals, signs, con—
struction articles, crepe paper, tacks, hammers.
ticket boxes, heavy paper laths—in fact every—
thing that is to be needed for the entire day—are
stored the day before in the property room on the
field. A property man is on hand to check in and

out to the directors all of the required articles. A
property list including all these articles and the
name of the playground and booth makes the
checking system more efiicient. Each group of
materials is set aside for the plaground director
who is to call for it. By the use of this method
considerable time is saved during the rush period
from 8:00 to 10:00 on the day of the circus.
Food stuffs arrive
at the field before
10:00 A. M. the day
of the circus. Ice
cream comes in a re—
frigerator t r u c k
which stays on the
grounds all da y.
Weenies, soda water,
candy and other per-
ishables are kept on
ice until needed. One
director has the re-
sponsibility of pro-
viding the food sales
groups with addi-
tional supplies as
they are needed.
Since everything is
purchased on consignment,
great care is taken in issu—

ing of additional supplies.
Construction goes on from 6 :00 A. M. to 10:00

A. M. the day of the circus. Three main rings
are marked off for the big shows and the booths
needed for side shows, concessions and food sales
are erected in the “joy zone.” Each director is re—
sponsible for his or her own booth. All of the
materials are located in the property room and
are checked out to the directors.

The booths are constructed of frames 6 feet'
by 12 feet used as sides. One inch boards 12
inches wide and 12 feet long are used as counters,
while pieces of flooring are used as braces. The
booths are decorated with signs, crepe paper, and
wrapping and roofing paper. Booths are set in

(Continued on page 157)

      
   
     

“A”

‘ \«"--~ h
 on .
[if
I gir'ahn:

rm

 
   

I <-
u .
a

M“.

’1
*b

l"' I. 3"!»

r.
for

f.

.40 ' .
in; ii

  

How to Produce a Play

By JACK STUAR'f KNAPP

National Recreation Association

HE POOR selection of plays has killed as many
T producing groups as any other one reason.

Poor plays produced professionally by skill-
ed actors die quickly. How. futile, then, to hope
the unskilled actors in a poor play may achieve
success!

One act plays are Usually written for amateurs
as they are seldom used professionally. In se-
lecting long plays, lioxvevergrghe gI‘OUp should be
wary of plays “written forgéi‘nateurs.” It usually
means the play is so poof-that professionals can—
not put it across. What hope, then, for the ama-
teur? Occasionally there is an exception and a
play is too good (too much depth or too cultured)
for Broadway. Remember, however, that the
biggest part of a Broadway audience comes from
Middletown and Cripple Creek. A play that is
too good for Broadway is apt to be too good for
any community, unless produced by a university,
college or “arty” little theatre with a select

audience.

The professionally produced plays also must be
culled carefully by the amateur group. Some of
them are too “cheap,” a few of them are too dif-
ficult, and a great many of them are too “risque”
or are downright “immoral.” Plays which are
smiled or laughed at on Broadway would be
frowned on severely in Middletown and Cripple
Creek.

The average amateur group has difficulty in
securing copies of plays to read from which to
make a choice. They have no funds to purchase
plays which may not be used. The average town
and city library has very few plays suitable for
production by a community group. Descriptions
in play catalogues mean little, and plays which
are personally recommended by some authority
should be read before purchasing c0pies for the
entire Cast.

134

 

This article deals with the important
subiect of selecting the play,and in it
Mr. Knapp suggests some of the cri-
teria for iudging a play. In an article
to appear in the July issue ll'Casting
the Play” will be discussed.

 

This difficulty is being recognized by some pub—
lishers. Longmans Green & Company, New York
City, for example, has a special offer whereby ten °
plays may be ordered from the catalogue, a re-
mittance being sent to cover their prices. If one
play is selected for production the others may be
exchanged for copies of the play selected, pro-
vided the books are returned in fresh and salable
condition.

Some state colleges and universities have a
package library system from which groups may
borrow by mail a limited number of plays for
reading purposes. Copies for the production,
however, must be secured from the publisher.

And there’s always the royalty question! Best
plays have a royalty unless the play is so old that
the copyright has expired, which means nearly
sixty years. It is becoming possible to secure fairly
good one act plays without a royalty, although
the best ones have a royalty. It is practically im-
possible to secure a good three act play without a
royalty.

The royalty is the rental for the use of the play.
It should be paid to the publishers a week before
the production of the play. Nothing will be said
if it comes in a week after the production, but it
is a good plan to have it arrive by that time be-
cause the publishing houses have clipping bureaus
which send all newspaper articles concerning the
production of plays to them, no matter how small
the article or the newspaper. V'Vilful violation of
the copyright laws carries a maximum penalty of
a year in prison, a thousand dollar fine or both.
The moral side must also be considered. The
group which produces a royalty play without pay-
ing it is as dishonest as the man who moves out
without paying the rent.

One reason why groups must pay a royalty to
secure good plays is that they themselves will not

HOW TO PRODUCE A PLAY 135

play fair. The usual playwright lives by writing
plays; it’s his business. A play book usually sells
from thirty to seventy-live cents a copy. The
playwright gets ten per cent of the book sales.
which means he makes from three to seven and a
half cents a copy. A group will buy one copy of
a play, copy all the parts, then distribute the parts
to other groups to copy. Playwrights and pub—
lishers have adopted the royalty plan in self-

defense.
Good plays are worth a reasonable royalty.

They build up a following. Poor plays will
quickly eliminate any following with which 'the
group may start. Organizations which produce
a play occasionally to “raise money” should give
the audience its money’s worth out of self-respect,
and for the sake of good taste, if for no other

reason.
The" director, or a small committee, should

select the play. The director and two members
of the group make a good committee. If a com-
mittee is too large it spends too .much time

arguing.
Some Pertinent Questions

,After reading each play the committee mem-
bers should ask themselves certain questions.

I. Are the characters real people?

Characters may be unusual but they should not
be stuffed dummies, drawn by a caricaturist with
bad taste. If the city men are “slickers” and all
the farmers are “rubes” it’s pretty apt to be a

bad play

2. Does the play have action?
A good play shows them; it doesn't tell them.

3. Does it tell a story?

Results should follow causes logically enough
so that the audience can imagine the story is hap-
pening, has happened, or at the very least, might

possibly happen.

4. Will the producing group like it?

If the producing group does not like the play
it will be a poor production. A play should not
be produced merely to be “high brow,” to raise
money, or to please some strong-minded person
in the group, but because it is liked by the group
as a whole.

5. Will the audience like it?

Certain audiences require certain types of plays.
This is especially true of children’s productions.
The average community audience should be given

credit for some intelligence. In spite of the opin-
ion of some playwrights, they are not all morons.
They are usually disgusted with cheap, trashy
plays, and show it by not attending the next pro—
duction. Comedies are generally popular, but
they should be varied by dramas, melodramas,
and even an occasional tragedy or fantasy.

6. Is this play possible for us?

An inexperienced group should not attempt
difficult productions. One act plays are excellent
mediums with which to gain experience.

Costume plays and high royalty; plays are
usually avoided by impecunious groups.

Plays with very large casts should not be at-
tempted by small groups or groups with a very
small stage.

Plays with difficult characterizations should
not be attempted unless there are actors suitable
for the parts.

Help in the selection of plays may be had with-
out charge from the drama consultant of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. Play lists may also
be secured for a very nominal fee. These lists are
classihed as follows: Plays for children; tourna—
ment plays; little theatre plays; plays for women;
plays for men; non—royalty plays and others.

Among the publishers glad to send their free
catalogue of plays are: Walter H. Baker, 4I \Vin-
ter Street, Boston, Massachusetts; Samuel French,
Inc., 25 \Vest 45th Street, New York City; Long-
mans Green & Company, 55 Fifth Avenue, New
York City; Fitzgerald Publishing Corporation,
14 East 38th Street, New York City, and Dra—
matic Publishing Company, 542 South Dearborn
Street, Chicago, Illinois.

“The best argument for community playing is
that it be useful both to workers and auditors.
The community player’s business is to supplement
life, and contribute to it those things which can-
not be had by other means. The rule is: Avoid
hackneyed pieces; avoid pieées whose production
in your vicinity is in prospect, and above all avoid
unworthy pieces.

“Community drama is the most direct and nat-
ural means of getting into touch with the arts.
The love of creative work is its motive power, the
zest of united effort is its binding force, and its
end is the. interpretation of life in terms of
beauty.”—Roy Mitchell, in Shakespeare for C 0m-
munity Players.

Junior Leadership

on the

Let us have your Opinion on this
increasingly important subject.

N discussing the effectiveness and place of

junior organizations on playgrounds, it is

necessary first to distinguish between junior
organizations and junior leaders. By junior org—
anizations I have in mind definite groups org—
anized for a specific purpose with particular ob-
jectives and responsibilities, and with some badge
or insignia of identification. By junior leaders
I mean boy and girl leaders who are not organized
into a formal group.

Junior leaders should, I believe, be used as
fully as possible on playgrounds. First of all,
because such service gives boys and girls the
valuable experience of acting in positions of res-
ponsibility where they have to make decisions
and exercise judgment and control. Secondly,
because the delegation of responsibilities to others
represents the best leadership technique in work-
ing with large grOUps. A playground leader in
charge of a hundred or more children of various
ages cannot possibly conduct a day’s program of
activities which will include all the children at
the same time. Unless boy and girl leaders within
the group are made responsible for certain activi—
ties and for specific duties, the leader will be
forced to take care of only a limited number and
the rest will either be left to their own devices,
which may or may not be satisfactory, or will
be lost entirely to the playground because it offers
nothing to attract them.

The question to be asked, then, is: How can
these junior leaders be discovered and used to
the best advantage?

One way is to Set up definite organizations such
as safety patrols, cleanup squads, junior police,

136

Playground

leaders’ clubs and the like. Membership in such
organizations requires a definite period of train—
ing, however short, and perhaps a period of ap—
prenticeship as well, also a pledge of willingness
to perform certain specified duties. The scheme
is used effectively in schools, especially in physical
education classes and after—school play programs
where boys and girls are elected squad leaders
or captains for stated periods of time. At regular
meetings for leaders they are acquainted with their
particular duties. The frequent change in leaders
makes it possible for most pLIpilS who are inter-
ested to serve. If the system is carried through
the upper grades and the junior and senior high
schools, the opportunities for serving in various
capacities are many.

 

Courtesy Board of Recreation Commissioners, Bioomfieid, N. J.

JUNIOR LEADERSHIP ON THE PLAYGROUND 137

Difficulties in Formal Organization of
Junior Leaders

This system has been carried over from the
schools to playgrounds. Some leaders maintain
that the system is effective; in my estimation it
is not, for several reasons.

First of all, because the needs, objectives and
administrative set-up of summer playgrounds
are entirely different from those of the school.
Even though both are concerned with the child,
the methods of dealing with him are entirely
different. Unless the playground is a school play-
ground and the leader is a teacher who has been
responsible for the school play activities through-
out the year, he is not familiar with the leader-
ship ability of the children on the playground,
especially at the beginning of the season, and is
not capable of assigning boys and girls to safety
squads and leadership corps with any real dis-
crimination. The dominating spirits on the play-
ground who make their presence felt and who are
most likely to be chosen are not always the best

leaders.
In the second place, the most defensible

argument on the

valueof junior organ-
izations in schools

 

A bird's-eye view of some activities which
make Bloomfield's playgrounds happy places.

Junior leadership organizations on the play-
ground have certain definite drawbacks and
liabilities, occording to the playground
worker who presents in this article the re-
s'uit of her experience and thinking. You
moy not agree with her. If this is the case,
let us have the benefit of your experience
and opinion. This is an important subject
which has became increosingly urgent as
the whole problem of providing sufficient
leadership on the playground ha s been ag-
gravated by the present economic situation.

does not apply to the same organizations 011
playgrounds. Junior organizations, such as the
junior police, which put boys and girls in a posi-
tion where they must make decisions regarding
individual conduct and act in a way which directly
affects other boys and girls, need the most subtle
and careful adult supervision. In the school a
teacher handles a much smaller number of child-
ren at any one time and has at least eight or nine
months in which to observe their
leadership ability and their individ-
ual differences. On a playground
a leader who has only two months
to know a hundred personalities,

to introduce activities to appeal to each and every
one of them, to administer a playground and all
its physical equipment, is not in a position to
give this careful supervision and to conduct even
the simple training courses which formal group
organizations require. Furthermore, he does not
have time, and should not be expected to find the
time, to attend to the clerical details which formal
organizations entail. Even though no written re-
cords are kept of individual achievement, the
playground leader must make some honest check
of each junior leader’s performance to determine
his fitness for continued service and for recogni-
tion, or the whole system becomes only a super-
ficial, administrative device. When this is so, as
I believe it is in many instances, the children soon
detect it and lose respect for the system, or take
their responsibilities just as lightly as they think
the leader is doing.

At this point a reasonable question presents
itself.'If it is true that a leader cannot give his

138 JUNIOR LEADERSHIP ON THE PLAYGROUND

attention to a spe—
c i a l l y organized
group, how can he
make use of junior
leaders at all? Isn’t
it true that Without
the safeguard of .
an organization a -
leader ismore likely
than ever to fall
back’ “on the boys.
and girls ,who, are
most aggressive?
Probably so. In
fact, with an im-
mature leader this
is more apt  be
true than not. But
as the leader comes
to know the children. on his playground better he
can shift responsibility without having to disrupt
an organization to do so. If an aggressive boy
or girl who needs the experience of being led
more than he needs the experience of leading is
elected captain of a safety squad during the first
week of the playground season, and performs his
role badly, the leader cannot take the position
away from him before his designated term ex-
pires without resistance and antagonism on the
child’s part, and perhaps the complete alienation
from the playground of him and all his followers.
The argument may be advanced that the boys
in a squad who elected him will learn by this ex-
perience what it means to choose a poor leader.
However, in a free playground situation where
opportunities for mature guidance are so limited,
the group, instead of remaining intact long enough
to learn by the lesson, is more likely than not to
break up entirely. If it does continue, it is apt
to be in a disgruntled and unwholesome spirit
which presents a difficult disciplinary problem
to the leader.

The choice of a wrong leader is by no means
an uncommon ocCUrrence. One of the reasons for
this is that the playground population is almost
never entirely the same as the school population.
A child meets newcomers who are not met with
in the schoolu—summer visitors, children who at—
tend other schools, and children of the same play
interests in different grades. Furthermore, the
comparative freedom of the playground presents
new situations which may demand an entirely

*-
—-

 

Courtesy The Journal of the National Education Association

different kind of
leadership than is
expected in the
classroom or in the
natural play group.
Although it is true
t h a t playground
teams also elect
their own captains,
sometimes the
wrong ones, and
the same argument

is not advanced
against them, it
must be remem—

bered that such
groups consist of
comparatively few
members, are fairly
homogeneous both in age and interest, and are
usually self-selected. This makes it easier to deal
with personality problems. Teen age boys and
girls will form their own teams for games but
they never organize a police system or a clean-up
squad or the like. The fact that these organiza-
tions are adult imposed does not necessarily make
them valueless, but it does mean that those who
impose them should be willing to subject them
to the most careful scrutiny.

 

The fact that playground organizations are
not created through the children’s own choice
brings up the problem of arranging meetings
satisfactorily. If both boys and girls are in the
same organization it is difficult to get them to-
gether before or after sessions. Home chores keep
many of the girls away longer and take them
away earlier than they do the boys. Nor can boys
who carry papers, as many of the playground
children do in larger cities, stay for a meeting late
in the day. During the height of the morning or
the afternoon when activities are at their peak,
it is not feasible to call a meeting of leaders, first
of all, because the leaders should be out assisting
in conducting activities, and secondly, because
those who are not responsible for some particular
assignment may want to participate in one of the
activities taking place. This may not be true in the
far South where there are long hot periods during
the day when quiet activities, including club meet-
ings, are not only appropriate but almost a
necessity.

JUNIOR LEADERSHIP ON THE PLAYGROUND 139

The Problem of Insignia

It is argued that children ought to feel respon-
sible for the success of the playground, for its

physical cleanliness, and for its order and opera-
tion. Consequentlyrthey should share in the work
that has to be done. For the children who do not
want to help clean up the playground, who are
careless in the use of equipment and apparatus,
some incentives must be provided. This is the
justification for the use of insignia. Being in-
trinsically of small value, they are a harmless
device for getting children to do things in which
they would not otherwise be interested. Some
leaders insist that the insignia are inCidental, that
they serve only as a means of identification.
Others admit that they are a form of award for
service. In either case, they are a sign of recogni-
tion. \Vhether they are detrimental or not depends
on the pressure the leader exerts on the boys and
girls who wear them. It also depends on whether
or not the emphasis is placed on doing the assign-
ment well or on receiving the badge. I disapprove
most of all because of the feeling of distinction
it creates between the children. If the badge is
only a means of identification and not an award
for service and a slow witted boy or a “bully”
wants a badge, should the leader give it to him?
If he does, the others in the squad will feel there
is no particular merit in wearing a badge. If he
does not, the child suffers through no fault of

his own.

Let us suppose a boy who is capable of assum-
ing responsibility falls down on his assignment.
Is the badge taken away from him? It should be
if it is a sign of his willingness to perform as-
signed duties. Yet to do so is to call the attention
of the other children on the‘ playground to his
negligence. It also leaves the boy with a sense of
loss which is unnecessary. If there were no org-
anization and the boy had failed to do something
he promised, the difficulty could be settled be-
tween the leader and himself. Handling such
individual problems is not difficult even on a play-
ground where there are so many different person-
alities. It usually requires an exchange of only a
few words. If the leader is discreet and intelligent,
the boy will be aware of his shortcoming but will
not feel embarrassed or ashamed as he would
be in the other case. Nor would he run the risk
of being taunted for having had a badge taken
away or withheld from him.

How Can Junior Leaders Be Used
_ More Effectively?

If there are all these objections to junior play—
ground organizations on summer playgrounds,
how can junior leaders be discovered and used
more effectively? ‘

Instead of taking the time to organize and
supervise these corps, .squads and patrols, a play-
ground leader should, I believe, use that same time
to discover new interests, to enlarge his ovirn
repertoire of skills by°experimenting with new
activities, new games, new stories and new
dramatic and music activities. Instead of taking
time to perfect an organization which must neces1
sarily reach only a limited number of children,
he should give his attention to discovering new
leaders, particularly among the shy boys and
girls whose abilities are not so apparent. One of
the best ways of doing this is by introducing a
wide variety of activities which will give as many
children as possible an opportunity to develop
and to display their natural abilities and interests.

As stated previously, a varied program can be
offered only if boy and girl leaders are used, the
older girls to play with the younger ones, to
teach them singing games and folk dances and
tell them stories; the older boys to teach the
younger ones crafts, coach them in games and
sports, etc. In the beginning the leader will enlist
those whose abilities are most apparent, being
careful not to exploit them or to monopolize the
time which they have for free play or playing
with other children. This is a point which I
believe is not stressed enough in discussing leader-
ship technique. As a leader comes to know the
leadership resources within the group, he can plan
the program in a way which will take the best
possible advantage of this existing leadership
and which will leave him as free as possible to
start new activities, uncover new leaders and step
into the place of the leader who has fallen down.
This might also be possible under the system of
junior organizations were it not for the fact that
the organization emphasizes the work to be done
and not the individual doing it, and imposes stan—
dards and rules which are exclusive rather than
inclusive.

As new boy and girl leaders are discovered, the
adult leader can ask them to help, first in a small
capacity and then in increasingly larger ones.
This gives the child leader a chance to establish

140 JUNIOR LEADERSHIP ON THE PLAYGROUND

confidence, to grow slowly before being singled
out of the group. The exercise of her ability gives
her this confidence. If she is a shy, sensitive child,
a badge, by calling attention to her, might frighten
her away and keep her forever from expressing
herself. I remember one particular girl who
would not participate in anything for a long time
but who always hung around on the fringe of the
group. She found herself when we introduced a
particular type of needlecraft. At first she would
not even show her work to anyone except the
leader, but finally she was willing to teach the
other children. She never developed the ability
to organize a group herself as some other girls
could. But once the craft class was started, the
leader could withdraw with the assurance that it
would hold together until she returned. If there
were leadership corps on the playground, how
would this girl be classified?

And the slow witted boy who wants to help?
As long as there is no standardized code of rules
set up to govern a hundred personalities, he can
be given responsibilities which he can perform
with satisfaction. His achievement will be meas—
ured by his own standard and not by the compara-
tive standards of an unselected group. Perhaps
his assignment is nothing more than getting water
in which to soak reed for the handcraft class or
perhaps carrying a baby swing to the storage
house. Into which junior organization would he
fit? I remember several younger boys who
watched other children of the same age take the
playground flag down every night for two weeks
before they gave the least sign of wanting to do it
themselves. They wanted to be sure they could do
it, to be sure they knew how. I don’t believe they
would have tried had the other boys been wearing
badges testifying to their superiority. They were
afraid of failure, and I am sure the badges, the
ceremony, the rules of an organization would
have scared them off entirely. Freedom from
domination is one of the most valuable contribu-
tions of the playground. Why crush it with a

stereotyped routine P

A Summary

To sum up. I believe the junior organizations
are not necessarily detrimental in themselves.

Mature, experienced leaders may be able to pre-
serve the best intentions for which they are de-

signed. However, in view of the fact that the time
for training adult leaders is limited and their time
for service also short, the problem of using that
time to its best advantage is most important.
Since there are so many conditions under which
a junior organization may be unsatisfactory, if
not genuinely harmful, because of the device for
exerting pressure which it puts into the hands
of a leader, I believe it would be better to empha-
size the real leadership techniques instead of arti-
ficial substitutes. We would, it seems to me,
develop better playgrounds and better play-
ground leaders if we stressed the natural tech-
niques instead of artificial ones; if we considered
the best way of discovering and utilizing incen-
tjves to be found in activities themselves instead of
outside incentives; if we discussed the technique
of group leadership, the value of recognition, the
ways of handling different children and similar
problems, instead of arbitrary systems of leader-

"shi p.

The most emphatic argument I can advance
against the use of such organizations is that they
are standardizing and unimaginative. Playgrounds
are intended to free play impulses, to give as
natural an opportunity for the expression of play
interests as possible. Instead of concerning our-
selves with the problem of finding new and better
ways for extending this freedom, we try to find

ways of standardizing leadership with no consid-
eration of children’s individual differences and

capabilities.

“It is most essential that children play with
those who stimulate them on their own level of
group consciousness. In no other way are un-
social attitudes so likely to be built up as by forc-
ing children into associations to which they do not
wholeheartedly respond. The drive behind the
child's behavior is to ‘get by’ with its members.
If there is a chance of achievement along the lines
of group interests, the individual child will learn
how to play fair, to tell the truth, to act loyally,
and will be awarded with group approval, and
either with a secure place in the ranks or with
some degree of leadership. But if he has no prac-
ticable chance of achievement, he may find pleas-
ure in the attention he gets by blocking or be-
deviling the others.”—Leroy E. Boman in “The

Urge to Belong,” C hild Study, May, 1933.

. Planning the l-landcrait Program

By JOHN C. KIEFFER

Special Assistant to the Director
Division at Physical and Health Education
Board of Public Education, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

0ND1TIONS of the past few years have forced
C us to examine more and more closely our

play and recreation activities, our organiza-
tion of them, and the principles and phi1050phy
underlying them for the purpose of securing bet-
ter and more lasting benefits. The tremendous in-
crease in spare time brought about by industrial
mechanization and its increasing unemployment,
together with a decrease in available spending
money, has brought us to a realization of how
helpless we are in utilizing this time to the best
advantage.

When working and with money to spend, spare
time was a source of joy, but once thrown upon
our own resources for entertainment and life sat-
isfactions, many of us have been found wanting.
Lack of skill, together with lack of interest in
satisfying activities, has caused almost as much
misery as lack of food, clothing, and shelter. Who
is to blame for all of this is not our problem now.
Our main concern must be that such condition
shall not continue.

Enrichment of Life Through Handcraft
Activities

In handcraft we have an activity which can
give much in the way of enriching life. It is only
one of the many means, of
course, and should not be

pacity of children, and to the careful organiza-
tion and management of instruction rather than
to the haphazard exposure of children to the mak-
ing of some novel things. In other words, we are
interested in building skills and attitudes in large
numbers of children with a view to making them
happy now and also to arousing interest and de-
veloping abilities which will serve them as they
grow older. In thus looking beyond the present
or current values of these activities, we need not
necessarily sacrifice any of the fun or joy involved
at present. To look only at present values in
terms of amusement or passing of time, or even in
terms of “keeping them out of mischief,” is a
short-sighted policy.

It is just at this point that the application of
sound principles and good methods of organiza-
tion and presentation are so essential. Too often
in the past, perhaps, these factors have been em-
phasized to the extent of defeating their very
purpose. Here, of course, the teacher must never
let the method of teaching, of organization or of
management, become the end. They should
always be a means of securing the desired results.

Principles of Organization

In presenting handcraft‘ activities on the play-
ground, teachers should first
of all have a very clear un-

over-emphasized at the ex-
pense of other vital activities.
Dr. L. P. Jacks reminds us
that it is based on very fun-
damental urges. Like other
basic urges its growth and
development depend upon
careful nurturing. It is at
once evident, then, that at-
tention must be directed to
the selection of suitable pro-
iccts to fit interest and ca-

This summer handcralt bids Fair to
surpass even its previous popularity
as a playground activity, it the num-
ber of inquiries coming to the office
of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation may be considered an indi-

cation! We are therefore presenting
the paper given by Mr. Kieller
before the district conference held
at Philadelphia this spring. It out-
lines in a practical way some of the
principles involved, and presents
proiects appropriate For age groups.

 

clerstanding of their purpose.
They should, I believe, pro-
vide a form of recreation
which is interesting to chil-
dren and which at the same
time affords opportunity for
developing manual skills, for
using tools and materials,
and for individual expression
in constructive projects.
The teacher should be guid-
ed by the following principles :

141

142 PLANNING THE HANDCRAFT PROGRAM

(1) Activities should be
chosen which— i i.

(a) Are interesting to the
children.

(1)) Are within the limits
of their ability.

(c) Yield useful or at-
tractive products.

(d) Teach the use of
tools.

(6) Acquaint the children
with the use of a
variety of materials.

"Recreation includes all the beau-
tiful skills, crafts and hobbies that
human beings can practice, on and
up to the finest of the fine arts. I
call this the higher recreation.
You may think of music as a typical
form of it, though, of course, there

are a hundred others. We need play—
grounds for the body, but we need
also playgrounds for the soul, and
it is in them, I think, that the most
enjoyable recreation, the most de—
lightful and lasting of leisure occupa-

tions are to be found." L. P. lacks,
in Education through Recreatiop.

particularly interesting to
him and within his ability.

Leaders

Such a complicated or—
ganization naturally requires
a corps of well trained lead—
ers and an elaborate pro—
gram. By selecting the more
capable boys and girls and
giving them additional help
before or after the play-
ground session, capable as—

(2) Standards of work-
manship set by the teacher
for the children should be
high enough to be challenging and yet low enough
to permit success.

(3) It is advisable to group the children on the
basis of interest, ability, and sex. Assignment to
any group need not be fixed or permanent.

(4) For reasons of economy it is advisable to
encourage projects involving the use of inex-
pensive materials.

(5) The wise use of well trained, capable lead-
ers can materially increase the fun of the activity
for the children, the effectiveness of the teacher’s
instruction, and can extend the teacher’s service
to a greater number of children.

Classification of Children

If handcraft opportunities are to be presented
effectively on an extensive scale, it is essential
that the children be grouped into small units.
Where the teacher is not acquainted with the in-
dividual abilities of the children it is often ad-
visable to classify them into several groups. One
way of doing this is to place children in the first,
second, and third grades in the beginners’ group;
those in the fourth, fifth, and sixth grades in the
intermediate group, and those in the seventh,
eighth, and ninth grades in the advanced group.
In the advanced group it is often advisable to
place the boys and the girls in separate groups.
This classification is a tentative one, and as the
child displays more or less ability he or she is
shifted into a more suitable group. This shifting
is always done in a diplomatic way and seldom
should the teacher separate friends. Within each
of these groups the teacher may, if necessary, set
up subdivisions based on ability or interest. A
child should always be permitted to shift tempo—
rarily into other sections for projects which are

 

sistance will be available.
This additional help will usu-
ally consist‘ not only in teach—
ing them how to make the various projects but
also in showing others the method of making
them. In addition, the teacher must point out
some of the difiiculties that the children will ex-
perience and how these difiiculties should be over—
come. The preparation of the materials and the
distribution of supplies and tools will also require
discussion in these meetings of leaders. Much of
the success of an extensive program for large
numbers of children will depend upon the train—
ing and ability of the leaders.

Program Building

Any attempt to present handcraft activities
successfully will also require a well organized
program of activities for each ability group. The
teacher should set up a daily schedule of these
activities for several weeks in advance. This
permits:

A logical progression in activities

A more economical use of materials

An accumulation of discarded materials brought
by children from home for use at a later date.

The provision by the teacher of a more inter-
esting and varied selection of activities.

This program, of course, will be subject to
emergencies which arise from time to time and
the teacher should not hesitate to change her pro-
gram when conditions at any given time justify a
change. In planning the program it is well to
remember that for younger children with their
short interest and attention span, projects must be
selected which can be made in a relatively short
period of time. It is also well to keep in mind the
fact that in the case of certain skills it is advisable
to provide a certain amount of repetition with
enOUgh variation to maintain interest. In the case

PLANNING THE HANDCRAFT PROGRAM 143

of older children there may be projects which
will require several days to complete.

Activities
Following are suggested lists of projects suit-

able for children of beginning. intermediate, and
advanced abilities:

A. Beginners' Group

(1) Tracing and coloring on paper (animals, birds, flow-
ers, and other objects.)
(2) W'eaving paper mats.
(3) Cutting paper.
(a) From tracings—flat, standing, movable objects.
(b) Free cutting—magazine and newspaper pictures
(4) Cutting, folding, and pasting paper (construction)
((1) Fans (paper) (g) Boats (paper)
(b) Book markers (paper)(h) Airplanes (paper)
(c) Pin packs (1') Envelopes
(d) Lanterns (paper) (j) Cornucopias
(e) Pinwheels (paper) (I?) Baskets (paper)
(f) Hats (paper)
Soldier; Indian
(5) Scrap-books (comic, picture books)
(6) Paper boxes (pasting pictures or bits of colored
paper on boxes)
(7) Furniture (stiff paper or cardboard)
(8) Top (cardboard circle with stick in center)
(9) Garages, barns (stiFf paper or cardboard)
(10) Necklace beads (long triangles of colored paper
rolled and pasted)
(11) Jars (pasting pieces of paper on jars, bottles, etc.)
(12) String or cord knotting (simple granny knots)
(a) Necklace; (b) Bracelet; (c) Chain
(13) Silhouettes (paper) ——Trees, flowers, animals,
houses
(14) Paper dolls
(15) Doll clothes (paper)
(16) Cutting and sewing (cloth) appliqueing
(17) Toy wagons, carts (stiFf paper, cardboard)
(18) Picture puzzles (cardboard)
(19) Simple plaiting and braiding (raflia)
(a) Bracelets; (b) Chains; (c) Necklace
(20) Belts (paper weaving)
(21) Checker boards (cardboard)
(22) Simple posters
(23) Asbestos covered jars
(24) Mats (raHia weaving)

'(25) Picture and design sewing—sewing cards

(26) Simple reed and raHia weaving

B. Intermediate Grou p

(1) Movable animals (cardboard)

(2) Dolls (cardboard)

(3) Doll clothes (crepe paper and cloth)

(4) Belts (paper and cellophane)

(5) Paper covered jars and bottles (design work)

(6) Asbestos (covering glass jars in designs or reliefs)

(7) Mats (weaving on loom using raflia, wool, jute,
string)

(8) Rugs (weaving on loom)

(9) Pocketbook (weaving on loom)

(10) MuFf (weaving on loom)

(11) Hot dish mat (wrapping and sewing on loom)

(l2) Napkin rings (cardboard wrapped with raHia)

(13) Needle books

(14) Pen wiper (cloth)

(15) Tam O’Shanter (weaving on loom)

(16) Hammocks (doll)

(17) Pot holders (cloth)

(18) Peanut bird, dolls, etc.

(19) RaHia doll

(20) Painted bottle

(21) Kites (paper)

(22) Picture frames (picture, spider webs in center)

(23) Mats (wrap rings cut out of milk bottle t0ps, with
raHia)

(24) Lamp shade (stiFf paper, crepe paper)

(25) Reed mats (raHia centers)

(26) Stocking doll

(27) Pendant (small picture frame and plaited raHia or
cord)

(28) Comb and brush holder (cardboard covered with
cloth)

(29) Letter holder (cardboard covered with cloth)

(30) Plaques (simple tracing of pictures on wood, col-
oring and shellacking)

(31) Indian baskets (raHia)

(32) Dollhouse (cardboard)

(33) Bird cages (soda straws)

(34) Pocketbooks (sewing wool, raHia—in scrim or
burlap)

(35) Dish rag bags (with designs)

(36) String bags

(37) Puzzles (cardboard)

(38) Puzzles (wood)

(39) Costumes (crepe paper)

C. Advanced Group

(1) Novelty dolls (cord, inner tube, raHia, rope, stock-
ing, oilcloth, fruit, lollyp'ops, cork, rag, hairpin)
(2) Book marker (leather)
(3) Vases (paper covered jars and bottles—design
work)
(4) Puzzles (wood)
(5) Modeling asbestos
(a) FOrms (animal, faces, plaques)
(b) O'bjects (ash trays, candlesticks, etc.)
(c) Beads
(6) Asbestos covering over wood or stone (paper

weights, inkstands, picture frames)

(7) Reed baskets

(8) Posters

(9) Decorated Indian basket (raflia)

(10) Belts (cellophane)

(11) Leather billfold

(12) Rugs (woven, hooked)

(13) Vase (painted)

(14) Paper flowers

(15) Plaques (advanced tracing on wood, coloring and
shellacking)

(16) Door stops (wood)

(17) Reed basket

(18) Splint baskets

144 PLANNING THE HANDCRAFT PROGRAM

(29) Plant stands, tabouret (cardboard)
(30) Rape quoits (splicing, grommet)
(31) Advanced reed work

(32) Stained glass (art glass)

(33) Hammocks (string)

(34) Chair caning

(19) Magazine rack (cardboard)

(20) Soap carving

(21) Costumes (crepe paper and cloth)

(22) Door stop (covered milk bottles or cans)
(23) Toys (wood)

(24) Book ends (wood and asbestos)

(25) Boats (wood)

(26) Leather belts

(27) Tie holders

(28) Lamp shades (twisted crepe paper, rafiia, wire,
cardboard, picture)

A Suggested Program

Following is a suggested program of handcraft
activities suitable for each of three groups of
children classified on the basis of ability:

 

ADVANCED GROUP

DATE BEGINNERs’ GROUP INTERMEDIATE GROUP Boys Girls
Tracing with crayons on Making Jointed Animals using Leather Book Rafia Doll (A sk
July drawing paper, cutouts of manila tag and paper fasten- Marker children to bring
Mon animals and birds. ers. (Cutting, coloring and m a ga zine s and
(1st) (Patterns have been cut out fastenings). glass bottles or
'by teacher or leaders be- (Ask children to bring large jars next day.)
forehand.) pieces of wallpaper or wallpa-

per sample books next day.)

Tues. Tracing, Cutting and Col-

oring animals and birds
(2nd) (or choice of children.)

C ntting and Pasting

Leather Billfold
Cutting out pictures of house

(Ask boys to bring Covering glass bot-
furnishings and pasting on pieces of thin wood tles or jar with
wallpaper background to from fruit crates bits of colored
make “furnished rooms.” next day.) paper. (Ask girls
(Ask children to bring cello- to bring pieces of

phane next day.) inner tube next

day.)

Cutting and Sewing
rubber dolls.

V ases—

 

Wed. Cutting, Folding, Pasting For Boys—Making hats from Sawing (with coping
Lanterns, pin-wheels and strips of folded paper using saw) picture puz-
(3rd) chains (or choice of the design popularized in cel- zles.
children.) 10phane belts.
For Girls—Cellophane belts
(Ask boys and girls to bring
glass bottles or jars from home
next day.)

 

Thurs. Cntting, Folding, Pasting,
(4th) Indian hats, soldier hats
(or choice of children.)

Asbestos

(For Boys and Girls)
Making beads, ash trays, reliefs.

Covering with Asbestos—
Covering glass bottles or jars
and painting them for use as
vases.

(Ask children to bring string
from home next day.)

Modeling

 

Fri. Cutting, Folding, Pasting, Wrapping and Tying—Hot dish Rafia and Reed Baskets
(5th) airplanes, envelopes, (or mat using string brought from (For Boys and Girls)
choice of children). home. Making Indian baskets, wrapping rafiia
around reed.
_______________________—___________.__—_+_————
Sat. As Friday but making cor- Napkin Rings—Wrapping card— Continue Friday’s activity.
(6th) nucopias and baskets (or board rings (sections cut from

cardboard r’oll inside roll of
toilet paper) with rafiia.

_____—_________——__________—____—__..__________.—_———————

choice of children).

as the week progresses. Because the administra-
tion of the asbestos involves more dichulties than

Using the lists of activities suggested, the
teacher can easily complete the programs outlined

making them extend over one or two months or
even longer, depending upon how often the
groups engage in the activity.

It will be noted in the programs suggested that
arrangements are made by the teacher to have
materials brought from home so that they will be
available on the day they are to be used. Some
attempt has also been made (in so far as this is
possible within the short span of a week’s pro-
gram) to increase the difficulty of the activities

do many other materials, projects in this material
are scheduled for both the intermediate and ad-
vanced groups on the same day, thus saving time.
The projects for each group are, however, dif—
ferent, those for the intermediates being less diffi
cult than those outlined for the advanced children
Because boys and girls are equally interested in
some projects, samples of these are included.
( See those for advanced group on Thursday and

(Continued on huge 157)

A Community Council Goes Into Action

HEN THE Pittsburgh Com-
W munity Council was or-

ganized in February, 1932,
the proper use of leisure time
was considered of such commun-
ity value that each of the nine—
teen local community councils appointed a stand-
ing committee on recreation. The chairman of
these local committees, under the leadership of
Sidney A. Teller, formed a city-wide Recreation
Committee. During the spring this committee
secured forty-four recreation leaders through the
work relief program of the Allegheny County
Emergency Association. Under the guidance of
some existing settlement or other group work
agency, these leaders were engaged in the super-
vision of extension work for unemployed adults.
From February 8th to July 2, 1932, they pro-
vided leadership in leisure time activities for over
2,000 persons daily.

In the fall it was decided to enlarge the work
of the Recreation Committee. The first step was
the creation of a Steering Committee to serve as
an advisory body for the city-wide committee and
for each of the local committees. The member-
ship of this committee included W. C. Batchelor
of the Municipal Bureau of Recreation, Ralph
Munn of the Carnegie Library, A. Benson of the
Boy Scouts, and other interested citizens of Pitts-
burgh. Clarence E. Lott was appointed chairman
of this steering committee and was also asked to
serve as chairman for the city-wide committee.

The Steering Committee was broken up into
three sub-committees: the Locations Committee,
Equipment Committee, and Personnel and Pro-
gram COmmittee.

The local committees were
encouraged to become more
active in their own districts
and as a means to this end
the field secretary of the
Community Council assisted
in their enlargement. In
every neighborhood the com—
mittee attempted to include
in its membership two repre-
sentatives from each church,

By Lors E. MCGREGOR

Field Secretary
Pittsburgh Community Council

Much good is resulting from the efforts
of Recreation Committees of Councils of
SocialAgencies,Community Councils and
similar groups, to bring to bear on the
problem of the need of the unemployed
for something more than food and shelter,
all the resources of the community. The
account of the way in which the commun-
ity Council of one city went to work, and
the methods it used, will be of interest
to other communities.

two representatives from each
fraternal organization, two from
each civic body, and at least five
members at large or interested
citizens having no particular af-
filiation.

And Then They Went to Work!

At the time of their reorganization these com-
mittees discussed the recreational situation in
their own neighborhoods. The first project of
each group was to make a survey of the existing
facilities for leisure time activities. As a result
of this study, each committee knew which group
or groups lacked adequate opportunities for rec-
reation. All of the committees confined themsel—
ves more or less to adults as it was felt that the
unemployed were in much greater need of a mo-
rale-building program than school children. Rec-
reation for children was not deemed unimport-
ant, but the committee believed that the young
people were receiving at last a minimum of this
work in connection with their school program.
The older boys and girls who had finished school
and who had never had an opportunity to work,
the family man who was accustomed to regular
work habits and who was now unemployed, and
the housewife with all the cares and economic
worries of her family, were the ones the com-
mittees felt they should help.

What sort of program would appeal to these
groups? In most districts the committee found
the answer to its problem in an informal clubroom
or community center. One or more rooms were
equipped with tables, chairs, games of all sorts,
jig saw puzzles, magazines and books. To this
club room the older boys and
the men could come for com-
panionship. Instead of stand-
ing on street corners engaged
in morbid conversation con-
cerning the depression, they
gathered in the club room to
play checkers, pool, ping-
pong or parchesi, to solve a
jig saw puzzle, to read some
current magazine or good

145

146 A COMMUNITY COUNCIL GOES INTO ACTION

book, or just to sit and chat.
Men tired of staying at home,
and wives weary of men folk
underfoot, all benefited by this
arrangement.

From the small club room
grew many things. Under the
guidance of the volunteer
leader, study groups were
formed. One or two after-
noons a week were given over
to girls and women who form-
ed their own clubs. Mush ball
leagues were started. Vacant
lots were secured for outdoor

u'Play is active. All the connotations
of the word suggest tljge£ idea of move-
ment. The word 'amuse'hnight be anal-
yzed etymologically as signifying 'a-
way from musing,’ coming out of one's
self. Even stronger in this sense is
the word 'distract,’ to draw away, or
'divert,’ to turn away. Play is an al-
ternative for those lazy entertainments
which find us idle and leave us passive,
since it gives us something we can do
or make to exercise our faculties and
cause us to experience that glorious

sense of achievement." EarnestEtmo

Catkins in The Lost Art of Ptay pub-
lished in the Attantic Monthty, April.

2. Game Rooms
(0) Free use of ping-pong
tables, pool tables,
checker games.
(b) Tournaments — ping-
pong, pool and others.

3. Gymnasium Classes

(0) Classes in basketball,
volley ball, tap danc-
ing, social dancing,
boxing, exercises, cal-
isthenics for girls,
women, boys and
men.

4. Social Rooms
(a) Informal use of meet-

playgrounds. “Naborhood nites” or mass enter-
tainments were planned and carried out. The ac-
tivity initiated by the local committee was like a
small snowball which the community council sec-
retary set to rolling. The local committee got be-
hind it and began to push, and as time went on the
activities gained tremendously in momentum and
size. Just as any snowball gathers some sticks and
stones, so the programs of the committee were not
alway perfect, but they were moving! Commit-
tees learned by experience and when any one pro-
ject failed, they turned to another.

As the needs in each district differed, so the
programs planned and executed were varied, of—
fering a great' variety of interests to people of all
ages. Centers ranged in size from small base-
ment rooms to large eight room buildings. Some
were open each day from nine o’clock in the
morning until ten o’clock at night; others were
open only in the afternoon and evenings, and still
others only one or two nights a week. Some had
one or two leaders while others had a staff of as
many as sixty volunteers. In some neighborhoods
centers had very simple programs consisting only
of informal games and free use of the library,
while others had comprehensive and well-rounded
programs.

A.

A Typical Program _

' 1

one center, the Beechview Community Center,
was housed in an old school building and put its
different rooms to the following uses;

1. Library . .és'

(a) Free use of magazines and books, =5.” :-
0?) Current events clubs. v V:-

(r) Story hour for youngsters once a week with"
story acting.
(d) Planned course of reading.

as

ing rooms.
(1:) Mixed dramatic clubs.

(c) Mixed social clubs—married couples’ club,
young peeples’ club and others.
5. Classrooms

(a) Handcraft classes of all sorts—hooked rug
making, whittling, soap carving, woodwork.
(1)) Vocational classes—shorthand, typewriting,

public speaking, elementary electricity,
salesmanship.

The successful completion of any one district’s
program entailed a great deal of effort on the part
of the committee. In large districts committees
had as many as thirty members, and in small
neighborhoods two or three persons might con-
stitute a committee. In most cases the local com-
mittee divided itself into sub-committees in the
same manner as had the Steering Committee.

Committee Activities

The Locations Committee handled the problem
of rooms. Space was borrowed for community
centers in whatever buildings were available.
Church basements, school buildings and vacant
store rooms were used. Even old garages were
transformed and equipped. If a building was in
need of repairs—and many of them were—the
unemployed men of the neighborhood fur-'-
nished the labor necessary for reconditioning the
buildings.

Jig saw puzzles, magazines, books quiet games
and all sorts of recreation materials were col-
lected by the Equipment Committee. In April the
Steering Committee conducted a city-wide cam-
paign for recreation equipment. For three weeks
there was publicity in the newspapers concern-
ing the work of the community centers, includ-
ing an appeal' for any material which might be
used in these centers. Many housewives in the

A COMMUNITY COUNCIL GOES INTO ACTION 147

midst of their spring cleaning answered this ap-
peal and as a result, the Community Council col—
lected 50 victrolas, 2,000 records, IO pianos, 4
pool tables, 5 ping-pong tables, 500 jig saw puz-
zles, 2,000 books, 15,000 magazines, IO daven—
ports, 50 chairs, 5 desks, 20 tables, and an odd
and varied assortment of games such as check—
ers, dominoes, lotto, flinch, crokinole and indoor
golf. This material was distributed to the local
committees which were unable to collect a suf—
ficient quantity in their own neighborhood.

The Personnel-Program Committees planned
programs to be followed and secured volunteer
leadership to supervise activities. To aid these
committees a city-wide leadership course was
held to give the volunteer leaders more of a back-
ground and appreciation of the work which they
were doing. For three evenings more than 300
volunteers met in the downtown Y.M.C.A. under
the auspices of the Group Work Division of the
Federation of Social Agencies. Speakers of gen-
eral interest were scheduled for each evening.
The group was later divided into special interest
groups; all the volunteers interested in music met
with one leader and all those interested in hand—
craft met with another. Other groups were
planned for leaders interested in reading rooms,
game rooms, social games and dramatics.

In remarkably few committees did the question
of finance become a disconcerting one. Many of
the committees had no expenses to meet. The
rooms used were loaned, the equipment was
donated, and the supervision and leadership were
given by volunteers. In a few cases, however,
the problem of light and heat had to be faced, as
well as the matter of repairs to the buildings oc-
cupied. To meet such expenses local committees
conducted benefit shows, dances or card parties.
These were exceptional rather than the rule and
were resorted to only where absolutely necessary.
The Steering Committee set up a small revolving
fund from which local committees could borrow
until they were able to meet their expenses. This
was especially helpful in buying lumber and other

materials to recondition a building for a new
center.

As an outgrowth of the daily program the

various committees began to ask for neighbor;

hood nights or mass entertainments. These enter—

tainments were planned and carried through by
the Local Committees. Programs consisted mostly

of local talent—plays by dramatic groups which

had been meeting in the centers, concerts by glee
clubs and solos by individual singers and dancers.
Some districts held neighborhood nights once a
week and others but once a month. Sometimes
these meetings, in cooperation with the Health
Committee of the Council, took a more serious
turn and health programs were presented. Some
committees had special programs for Hallowe’en,
Christmas and other holidays. To assist with
these “Naborhood Nite” programs, the Steering
Committee developcd an entertainment file which
could be called upon for special acts—magicians,
orchestras and other worth while features.

Pointing out that unemployed hours need not
be empty hours and realizing that as a nation we
will have more and more leisure time, the Pitts—
burgh Community COUncil has ad0pted for its
Recreation Committee the slogan, “Your Spare
Time Is Yours—~Make It Show a Profit.” By
bringing together agencies and individuals inter-
ested in leisure time activities, local committees
have been able to coordinate and enlarge the pro-
gram and use of existing facilities, and to estab—
lish new centers where necessary. No one com—
mittee has made a perfect thing of every project,
but each has had enough successes to prove that
leisure time can show a profit. As a result of
their work 75 new centers now serve from 6,000
to 10,000 persons weekly. Recreation, to these
committees and to the groups which they serve,
has come to mean not merely play for children,
but a very real and worth while re-reation for
adults.

“As the poet says, we want to mold the world
‘nearer to the heart’s desire.’ But what is the
heart’s desire? There is not much good in mold—
ing the world unless we have a clear idea of our
goal, what we are really after, what is our heart’s
desire. Is it quantity? Is it a suffocating mass of
commodities for the world to use? Or is it qual—
ity? Is it a nice balance of human affairs and en—
joyments and satisfactions? Is it getting all we
can today and not bothering about the happiness
and stability of society tomorrow? Or is it a
blissful tomorrow bought at a great price today?

'Or is it a nice balance between them? Does it

admit of moral and artistic and Spiritual judg-
ments, or is it just one mad rush for the comforts
of today? We must know what the heart’s desire

is before we can even make a good approach shot
to it.”——Sir Josiah Stamp, G.B.E., LL.D., D.Sc.

Junior Recreation
in the

Yosemite National

Park

A plan with a sure guar-
antee of vacation fun for

both parents and children

PARENTS visiting the Yosemite National Park
with their children are finding the Jtmior

Recreation Department a great boon in help-
ing them enjoy a carefree vacation. For this de-
partment is organizing recreation activities for
the children, keeping them busy and happy, and
providing a special camp with a supervisor in
charge to care for the younger children.

The service, which is entirely free except for
special trips involving expense, is given children
between nine and thirteen years of age. A weekly
program is posted on all bulletin boards with
activities scheduled for every morning, afternoon
and two evenings a week. The program is plan-
ned in such a way that after a strenuous morning
the children will have an afternoon of quiet games
or handcraft. Here is a typical weekly program:

Saturday, July 23rd—Morning, 7:30 A.M.—Breakfast
ride; Afternoon, 1:30 P.M.-—Handicraft class;
Evening, 7:30 P. M.-—Marshmallow roast.

Sunday, July 24th—Morning, 10:00 A.M.—Swimming

at Camp Curry Pool; Afternoon, 1 :30 P.M.—Games. ,

Monday, July 25th—Morning, 9:00 A.M.—Half day
hike; Afternoon, 1:30 P. M.—Handicraft.

Tuesday, July 26th—Morning, 7:30 A. M.——Breakfast
hike; 11:30 A. M.—Story hour; Afternoon, 2:00
P. M.—Monthly swimming meet.

148

 

Courtesy l’asmnirc Park and Curry Company

By DOROTHY BOARDMAN

Junior Recreational Director
Yosemite Park and Curry Company

\Vednesday, July 27th—Morning, 9:00 A. M.—All day
burro picnic.

Thursday, July 28th— Morning, 9:00 A. M.—Novelty
track meet; Afternoon, 5 :00 P. M.—Supper hike.

Friday, July 29th—Morring, 9:00 A. M.—All day burro
picnic or for those not fortunuate enough to go—
10:00 A. M.——Nature study hike; Afternoon, 1:30
P. M.—Games.

In 1931, when the program was initiated, the
activities consisted of handcraft classes, half day
hikes, all day hikes, games, treasure hunts, break-
fast hikes and rides, story hours, marshmallow
and weiner roasts, and swimming parties. The
high light of the summer was a children’s rodeo.
In preparation for this the children practised
games on horseback Under the direction of a rid-
ing instructor. There were also foot and novelty
races as well. So successful was the rodeo that
it was repeated in the summer of 1932 and will

be a yearly event.

JUNIOR RECREATION IN THE YOSEMITE N.-ITIONAL PARK 149

At the end of the season it was decided
to try out an all day burro picnic. The
children were so delighted with it that it
was necessary to conduct another the fol-
lowing day to take care of the overflow.
These picnics continued three times a week
during the summer of 1932. The children
left the stables at 9:00 A. M. with lunches
and bathing suits in their saddle bags, a
guide and the recreation director bringing
up the rear. They rode for about an hour
and a half to a spot on the Merced River
where there is a good bathing beach, donned
bathing suits for a swim before lunch, and
afterward enjoyed games and stories. Then
a two hour ride home, tired but happy.

During the summer of 1931, 2,579 chil-
dren participated in the various activities. In
1932 some new and interesting ideas were worked
out. 1We organized the Grizzly Club—the name
“Grizzly” was taker: from Yosemite meaning
“Grizzly bear.” A little long house served as our
club house, and here we keep our box of hand-
craft tools for use in the big Open space in front
of the club house, where handcraft classes are
held and games played. The house is the meeting
and starting place for all activities. Just above
the building is an old ruin with an open hreplace
where marshmallow
and weiner roasts
are held twice a

 

Courtesy Yosemite Pork and Curry Company

Nothing has a greater appeal for
the children than the daily ride.

 

Courtesy Yosmm'tc Park and Curry Company

A popular part of the program of the
games played in front of the club house.

w :ek. Every child automatically becomes a mem—
1er of the club after taking part in three activi—
ties. There are no entrance fees and no dues.

A point system has helped maintain the chil-
dren’s interest. On entering a club each child is
given a little "('irizzly Club” booklet in which he
keeps track of the activities in which he takes

part and the pomts won for participating

“"htn a child has accumulated [00 points he

receives a pin; for .250 points he is given a
medal similar to the pin but
larger and suspended on a
green and gold ribbon, the
club colors.

Another innovation in the
[032' system was the monthly
birthday parties. Every child
who had a birthday during the
month was invited to a birth-
day party where there were
games, favors, and a birthday
cake. It was a happy child
whose birthday occurred in the
summer.

The handcraft articles made
by the children from the nat-
ural materials found in the
Yosemite were displayed in a
glass case. They included
birds made of pine cones and
acorns; pine needle baskets;

(Continued on page 158)

World

OAK

L.
T H E JAMES

BARRIE PLAY-
0 R 0 U N D of
Oak Park, II-
linois, is the proud possessor of
a book-plate especially designed
for its library by Carl Junge of
Oak Park, well known book-
plate maker. In harmony with
the brilliant Peter Pan murals
that adorn the panels of the shel-
ter’s attractive meeting place,
Mr. Junge, in collaboration with
Mr. Meyers, chose the Kensing-
ton Garden Peter Pan for his
central figure.

The book-plate was presented
at a special ceremony held in the
' shelter house of the playground
when Dudley C. Meyers, Com—
missioner of Public Works, who
is both a playground and book-
plate enthusiast, told the children some interest-
ing facts about book-plates.

The James Barrie Playground is the second of
Oak Park’s play centers to become the possessor
of such a plate, Eugene Field having the first,
also made by Mr. Junge with Mr. Meyers as the

donor.

A Playground
Book-Plate

T 111; SECOND annual aquatic
conference of Southern Cali-
fornia was held under the
auspices of the Recreation
Commission of Long Beach and sponsored by the
Public Beach Coordination Committee of South-
ern California. At this conference, which was
held on February 27th, such subjects were dis-
cussed as water safety, recreation in the water,
recreation of the water, yachting and boating.
'promotion of school and college aquatic pro-
’grams, medical aspects of swimming, and new
pool construction.

150

An Aquatic
Conference

PLAYGROUND

P

\
s\\\\§l

\\\\

3%“mu“Il"'“"IIHIIWJII/IIIIIIIIW
. J\ I n

(7710113 w/zo brim; J‘zzxzr/uizo
info i/zc Iii/gr of 013/103“ can;
not £54.70 it £29m Menus/m:

J. M. BARKIE

 

M723 at Play

ARK

TEMISCA M-
ING, a small
community in
Quebec, Can-
ada, has a central organization
known as the Temiscaming Ath—
letic Association which is in
charge of all sports. The efforts
of the association during the past
year have been directed at secur-
ing a wading pool which is now
an accomplished fact. It was con-
structed from funds contributed
by private individuals and sport—
ing clubs in the community. Peo-
ple out of employment contrib-
uted their labor or accepted a
nominal wage so that the entire
cost of the pool did not exceed
$700 in cash. The pool, built of
concrete, is 50 feet in diameter
with a maximum depth of 29
inches at the center and 15 inches at the edge. It
is beautifully located in a forest.

A Wading Pool
At Low Cost

%

FROM MARCH 13th to 17th
the Portola Recreation Center
of San Francisco, California,
Operating under the auspices
of the Recreation Commission, celebrated its sec-
ond anniversary week. Portola Center was
erected on the Portola Playground Field during
the year of 1930 and was completed in January.
1931. Since its dedication on March 14, 1931, the
center has had a steady growth until today there
are twenty-five organizations of men, women,
boys and girls meeting in the building and making
use of the facilities offered. The anniversary
celebration included banquets and receptions
given by the various clubs, music, dramatic fea-
tures, dancing, exhibition basketball games and
similar activities.

An Anniversary
Celebration

WORLD AT PLAY 151

Detroit Women at Play—In spite of the bank
holiday and the depression, the eleventh annual
demonstration of women’s activities was con—
ducted on March 11th by the Detroit, Michigan,
Department of Recreation. Seven hundred and
fifty women, representing thirty-four centers,
took part in a most successful event, while ap-
proximately 9,000 people were present as spec-
tators. The demonstration took the form of a
pageant of which music and dancing were fea-
tures, as well as mass games and drills.

Play for Earthquake Sufferers—Miss Frances
Cramer of Long Beach, California, subscriber to
RECREATION, writes: “Your letter of March 10th
(a renewal notification) found us living in our
back yard and cooking over an open fire. Now
that the earthquake is over and things are return-
ing to normal, I will get my renewal to the REC-
REATION Magazine on its way.

“After the earthquake many of the families in
Long Beach were temporarily or permanently
homeless. These people were housed in tents in
our parks. The workers from the Recreation De-
partment organized programs of recreational ac-
tivities for the children and adults at the various
parks. Ten playgrounds have now been opened.
These are supervised by volunteer workers. We
cannot open more of the school grounds at pres-
ent because of the dangerous condition of the
school buildings. In many cases the playground
equipment was buried in the debris The Los An-
geles Playground Department has been very gen
erous and has loaned the Long Beach Depart—
ment equipment to carry on with during this time
of emergency. The playgrounds are vitally essen-
tial now of all times, for the school children are
at a loss to know what to do with their unex-

pected vacation.”

From the Los Angeles Playground and Recre-
ation Department comes word that music, motion
pictures and other entertainment were arranged
for the earthquake sufferers. Gypsy story tellers
put on story hours at the various camps.

Training Schools in Nature Activities——This
year “The Allens,” beautifully located in the Hud-
son River valley, New York State, will be the
headquarters of two nature training schools to be
held June 17th to 30th and July 2nd to 16th The
Coordinating Council of Nature Activities will
cooperate with Mr. and Mrs. Allen in this pro-
ject. The instruction, which will consist of in-

At last - SAFETY-

in a Swing Seat!

Everwear Scores Again!

   

Patent Pending

    
     
 

No more serious dan-
ger from a swing seat
IF it is the ncw, Ever-

Wear

Spring - Rubber
Safety Seat
N0. SR-205

All exposed and con-
tact surfaccs of the
seat are soft, springy,
tubular, corrugated,
fabric-reinforced rub-
ber. The five tubular
rubber section are in-
teriorally reinforced

by spring steel.

The suspension
clevises are re-
versible, doubl-
ing the life of
the seat.

The seat is venti-
lated and all sur-
faces are non-slip.

Re-e quip all old
swing outfits and
specify this seat for

all new swings. ‘

A complete line of approved Playground Apparatus. Beach

and Pool Equipment. Write for new Catalog No. 24.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.

SPRINGFIELDI OHIO

152 WORLD A T PLA Y

Be Sure to Gel: Details on
NEW "Free Glide" Shuffleboard

Free-Glide Shuffleboard equipment has in-
creased the already popular appeal of Shuf-
fleboard. Will not warp or break and is
amazingly low in cost. Write today for
complete information. instructions how to
install and extremely low prices.

The H. G. Cress Co.

Box NR-53 Troy, Ohio.

formal field and discussron groups. is planned to
meet the need of nature counsellors, science
teachers and professional business men and
women who enjoy an opportunity to enrich their
understanding and appreciation of nature under
the direction of recognized leaders.

Cleaning Out the Attic—A thorough house
cleaning of the attic of the \Vorcester, Massachu-
setts, Girls Club has resulted in the securing of a
play room for younger girls. In the last few
months more girls than ever before have been
crowding to the club house and space was at a
premium. Someone had the happy idea of tum-
ing the attic into a play room. The Mayor’s Re-
lief Committee came to the rescue by putting un—
employed men on the job of cleaning out and
decorating the attic. A group of women gave a
series of bridge parties the proceeds of which

88 Successful Play
Activities

0 A complete revision of the booklet
which has been proving so practical
for a number of years.

0 Many new activities have been
added. Of special interest to the
play leader are chapters on Side-
walk Games and Home Equipment
Games never before included.

0 A section on Tournaments gives
full directions for a number of

contests.

0 Other chapters deal with Music
and Drama, Shows and Exhzbzts,
Nature Play and Winter Sports.

Price 3 .60

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 FOURTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY

were used to purchase tables, benches and games
constructed at the boys’ trade school. Other gifts
began to arrive in the form of games, books and
articles of various kinds. There is a window seat
full of costumes for dressing up. A small por—

tion of the relief funds was used to place leaders
in the game room for two days a week. On
Thursdays and Fridays the game room is used
by the marionette and dramatic study clubs. On
Saturdays it is open to any club member as part
of the regular club program. The room is also
used by employed girls of the senior club on
Monday, \Vednesday and Thursday evenings and
the high school girls’ club on Friday evenings.

Volunteer Services in Omaha—The volun-
teers who are helping in the social recreation pro-
gram in Omaha, Nebraska, are having a busy
time. On December 2nd the report of the Recre-
ation Committee was “23 centers, 33 parties and
an attendance of almost 5,000 since October
12th.” Calls have been received for men's par-
ties, fatherless boys, father and son nights, and a
number of women's meetings of various kinds.
Once a week a group of volunteers, consisting of
six or seven women and five or six men, go to the
Salvation Army shelter and conduct games for
approximately 650 men, who greatly enjoy the
programs. Twenty-eight handcraft classes of two
hours each are being conducted by six volunteers
at the Unemployed Married Men's Council.

To Stamp Out Juvenile Delinquency——
Through a cooperative plan worked out by the
Juvenile Research Council of Los Angeles, city
and county police and juvenile correction officials
have joined hands with the Los Angeles Depart-
ment of Playground and Recreation, city schools.
welfare agencies and similar organizations dealing
with children, in an effort to stamp out delin-
quency wherever possible by substituting con-
structive play for harmful activities. As an illus-
tration of the work being done, sixty boys of
south Los Angeles who had proven particularly
troublesome to the police, were gathered together
in a junior baseball league by the Recreation De—
partment. They are no longer a police problem.
Similarly, a group of boys whose activities were
leading them in the direction of the penitentiary
have been introduced to municipal playgrounds
and. given activities to provide an outlet for their

energy.

l/VORLD AT PLA Y

Puppet Clubs in Irvington—Girls over eleven
years of age may be members of the puppet clubs
organized by the Department of Public Recrea-
tion on the plagrounds of Irvington, New Jersey.
The clubs elect a master craftsman (president)
and scribe (secretary), draw up a constitution
and select a play. The characters are listed and
members volunteer to make various characters
and puppet controls. They then practice the ma-
niuplation of puppets and begin work on the play.

Aid in the Handcraft ProgramuNear the
Public Library in Boston, a new organization has
, sprung into being to meet the needs of people en-
gaged in craft work of every nature—metal,
wood, leather, and countless other materials.

Fellowcrafters, Inc. helps playgrounds, schools,
camps, groups, hospitals, all workers engaged in
Occupational Therapy, shut-ins, professional
craftsmen, and individuals who seek to create
useful and beautiful objects.

At the recent craft exhibit at New York Uni—
versity, one hundred and fifty simple projects
were displayed, the materials for many of them
costing between two and fifteen cents each. Such
projects fit into today’s needs, especially with
playgrounds, 4-H clubs, settlements, and hospitals.
Anyone desiring further information might well
write to Fellowcrafters, Inc., No. 739 Boylston
Street, Boston, for their new list of money sav-
ing vacation projects.

A City-Wide Contest tor
Better Back Yards

(Continued from page 119)

safety. A pet house for the housing of rabbits.
squirrels, or other small animals gives contact
with natural life, which all children desire. Kites
and stilts and similar activities will always hold
their charm for both boys and girls.

A playhouse of larger dimensions than the doll
house for the tiny tots opens up unlimited oppor-
tunity for expression in those activities that train
for household responsibilities later in life. One
ingenious father built such equipment from the
body of an old discarded sedan automobile. A
very picturesque little cabin was built by sur—
rounding the body placed upon the ground with
cobblestones built tip to the base of the window.

 

 

IT’S GOOD BUSINESS TO BUY
LOUDEN EQUIPMENT NOW

ground equipment industry have prices

been so low! And. never before has
better equipment been built than that manu-
factured by Louden! It is difficult to determine
how much longer it will be possible to build
playground equipment of such fine quality at
prices so surprisingly low. Isn't it good busi-
ness. then to give serious consideration now to
the immediate purchase of new equipment?

NEVER BEFORE in the history of the play-

The big variety of devices in the complete
Louden line are well and widely known for the
years of safe. carefree service they give . . .
for the mental and physical fitness they bring
to a well rounded educational program for
children. Let Louden experts help you with
your playground problems.

AND AT THE
"CENTURY OF
PROGRESS” BEACH

and "Enchanted Island." hosts
of happy children will find
thrills galore on a big variety
of Louden beach. pool and playground equip-
ment . . . the same sturdy. dependable equip-
ment available for you now at such low cost.

Write today for the new book
giving complete information on
Louden Playground, Beach and
Pool Equipment. No obligation

J. E. PORTER CORP.

I20 Broadway Ottawa, lll.

LOUDEN

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT

 

154 A CITY—WIDE CONTEST FOR BETTER BACK YARDS

HANDICRAFT
PLAYGROU N D PROGRAMS

Projects 20., 40., 60., 80. and up

Girls . . . Boys. . . . Unemployed Groups

Write or wire for information

FELLOWCRAFTERS, INC.
739 BOYLSTON ST., BOSTON, MASS.

SUPPLIES. TOOLS, PROJECTS. INSTRUCTION

 

A rustic roof was installed covered with shingles.
An imitation chimney and a little porch covered
with vines added to the attractiveness of the lit-
tle house. The front seat was turned around to
face the back, and the interior proved to be so
comfortable that mother transported her bridge
foursome to this location on many occasions.

Where Do the Grown Folks Come In?

The problem of recreation for adult members
of the household might at first be thought a very
difficult one, but‘ it is not hard to solve. To begin
with, all parents are intensely interested in the
play life of their children and will find the making

 

 

Notable Swimming Pools and Guide
To Equipment and Supplies

A year—round reference book for
swimming pools and other public
ii bathing places. A bound volume.

Contains. among other material. the

I! Rules, Laws and Regulations of the
various States and some cities. The
Regulations were compiled by the
Sanitary Engineering Department of
the State of Illinois.

In this volume every important
phase of the swimming pool and
beach is dealt with by outstanding
engineers and municipal and State

3' departments—design, operation. con-
struction, sanitation, maintenance,
etc.

Price $2.00

ADDRESS

NOTABLE SWIMMING POOLS and
GUIDE to EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES

114 E. 32nd Street, New York, N. Y.

 

 

of equipment, and the direction of activities a
great source of relaxation. In the space set aside
for paddle tennis and volley ball, both activities
in which adults may engage with great benefit, the
much ridiculed game of croquet may easily be
provided for. Equipment for this game may be
readily made by father at his work bench, where
innUmerable pieces of play equipment for all
members of the family may be constructed. Some—
one asks, “Why not hang the volley ball net on
the clothes line,” and many ingenious parents
have found this a very practical suggestion. And
then, of course, father likes his game of golf, and
he can find opportunity for improving his game
by installing a driving net in the garage and a
miniature nine-hole putting course installed in the
nooks and crannies of the front and rear yards.
Annually he brings out‘ his fishing tackle for an
excursion into the mountains. \Vhy net improve
his technique in Hy casting by occasional practice
in the back yard? Other possibilities will be
found in bowling down the driveway with pins
set in the rear of the garage, or bowling upon the
green. Squash, Doug, tether ball and similar ac..-
tivities are all feasible. The pergola, the arbor,
the lawn swing, all of which may be constructed
by the man of the house, will provide the setting
for many enjoyable hours.

Many Values Are Involved

The suggestions offered are merely an indica-
tion of the many different ways in which back
yard playgrounds can be made into ideal recrea-
tion centers in which the entire family may find
enjoyment. In addition to the recreational value
to be derived from the back yard playground,
there is the social benefit arising from the fact
that such a playground tends to keep the family
together and to center their interests in the home.
The slogan adOpted for the Los Angeles back
yard and playground contest was, “The Family
That Plays Together, Stays Together,” and as
the contest developed and judges were brought
into contact with many different types of entries,
the truth of this‘ Slogan became more firmly

established.

The Flower Market Tot Lot
Playground

(Continued from page 12.5)

followed the plan of visiting the homes of the
youthful pugilists and securing parental coopera-

THE FLOWER MARKET TOT LOT PLAYGROUND 155

tion. Each day in coming to the playground I
walked through a different street so that I could
give safe escort to the playground to children
from other streets. I took the children from the
playground on foraging trips for scrap wood,
pasteboard boxes and other handcraft material,
and I made it a habit to stop and talk with strange
children in an effort to break down group an-
tagonism.

The street shower attached to the fire plug on
sizzling hot days helped the children to forget
their differences and to unite in one common
cause, that of keeping cool. The showers became
street beaches with the street shut off tempo—
rarily from traffic. Here was a wonderful op—
portunity for every child to learn how to be a
leader and a “boss.” There was always a pell mell
rush to see who could get the street barriers and
spray fastened first. Then indeed we needed the
wisdom of a Solomon to decide who should be the
grand child of Jupiter Pluvius to preside over
the gushing geyser! Naturally the best helper at
all times was selected, but sometimes we reversed
our decision and picked the greatest offenders in
order to bring them in line.

As the weeks went‘ by more girls and boys be-
gan to come to the ground and stay most of the
day. They were very helpful in all the activities,
especially in watching over smaller children or
carrying projects to completion. Music at our
assembly and singing games also built up a spirit
of good—will toward the ground. The smaller
children liked the games this year because they
now had a fair basic knowledge of how to play.

We had a particularly hard time getting one
corner of otir ground looking well because the
wall was partly knocked down and plaster con-
tinually oozed out on the ground in a heap.
Finally we gathered enough scrap lumber from
furniture and fish boxes to construct shelves, back
them up, and place this bookcase in the hole on
the side of the empty store. Old magazines, books
or funny papers donated by visitors, leaders and
children were plentifully used. And here was of-
fered another opportunity to teach responsibility
and property rights. Someone had to be in charge
of the library; someone brought out the books and
kept them in order, and someone had to sign the
literature in and out.

Out of this library corner grew the famous
“visitors’ book." We have in it the names of
recreation workers from many cities, a South
American president and his wife, board members

layground
can’t afford dust
this your . . . . .

I-F-

 

 

 

Both economy and health
urge this protection!

IIOTECTION of children against the dirt and
dangers of dust! Protection of the playing
surfaces against disintegration which is the cause of
dust! Both kinds of protection are assured with the

use of Solvay Calcium Chloride on gravel and earth
surfaces.

Playgrounds everywhere find Solvay treatment the
ideal way to end the dust nuisance. Clean and white,
it does not track or stain. It is easy to applv and
economical to use. And in addition to keeping. down

dust, it actually kills harmful germs that live and
breed in dust.

Let Solvay Calcium Chloride help you lower the cost
of keeping surfaces in good condition. Write today

for booklet 1159 and full information.
SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

Alkalies and Chemical Products Blarmfactured by
The Solray Process Company
New York

SOLVAY
Calcium Chloride

TRADE MARK no. u. s. m. on.
Flake 77% — 80%

 

156 PLANNING THE PICNIC GROUNDS

 

Volley Ball '

Series of articles on—

Technique

By ROBERT E LAVEAGA.

Director of Physical Education. Boston
YMCA

M. A. CLEVETT.
George Williams College. Chicago

May 1932 April 1933

 

COMPLETE SET, $1.00

V

Journal of
Physical Education

347 MADISON AVENUE
New YORK CITY

 

——-—-—~——-I-——-—-——— I——i-F— — E- -—_1 -._
I...

 

 

and educational leaders. The children were
always on the lookout to see that the visitors
signed the register. we began to see the first in-
dication of a breakdown in the suspicious attitude
toward outsiders. The boys, however, still en-
joyed gang play most and their desire to work
with us was not yet sufficient strong, so we de—
cided to place a further age limit, making it eight
years and under for next year. On occasional
visits to adjoining streets we still noticed many
small children who never came to our playground
and were not reached by our service.

At the conclusion of the second year’s work we
decided to find some means of giving wider pub-
licity to the playground as well as to discover
some activity which would combat the destruc-
tive instinct of the boys, while we gave special
attention to the little ones.

 

—

Nora: The story of the Tot Lot Playground will be
continued in the July issue of RECREATION.

Planning the Picnic Playgrounds
(Confirmed from page 129)

picnic areas of this kind is a considerable number
of shelters of the type of the Adirondack shelter

of a size to shelter a family or other small group.
On the open side of this type of shelter and
directly in front is placed a small oven or open
grate. This arrangement permits picnicking to be
carried on even in the most inclement weather

and from early spring until late in the fall or
winter.

Open spaces for organized games are not an
essential requirement in connection with this type
of picnic ground nor is it absolutely essential that
special provisions be made for the play of the
children, although at the large centers a few sim-
ple pieces of apparatus scattered here and there
would no doubt be greatly enjoyed by the children.

These picnic places may be located at various
places, on the banks of streams, shores of bodies
of water, at clumps of trees in otherwise open
fields, in small groves of trees along parkways or
motor highways, on high points presenting good
views, in the recesses of woodlands or in secluded
valleys, although for the larger places the space
requirements are practically the same as for the
space designed for the large organized picnic,
except, possibly, for the open field.

General Comments

All picnic places should have a name or num-
ber, and there should be plan maps showing the
location of each and the roadways or trails lead—
ing to them. Organized picnic grounds should be
handled through a permit system and as a rule on
the principle, first come, first served. With re-
spect to the small group type of ground, unless
the demand for space requires it the permit sys-
tem is hardly necessary. It is desirable that
family and small group picnicking be hampered
as little as possible by official red tape.

In addition to the maps mentioned above, which
are primarily for the guidance of the people, at-
tractive signs at the entrance of the principal pic-
nic grounds and directing signs along the road-
ways would be very helpful.

The policing of picnic grounds in the sense of
clearing up rubbish and debris is always a trouble-
some problem. Every picnic ground should be
liberally supplied with waste cans and with signs
posted requesting picnickers to deposit papers,
pieces of food and other debris in the cans. They
will usually pay little attention to either the signs
or the cans, but they should have the opportunity

A SELF-SUPPORTING CIRCUS

to be decent and neat in the use of the grounds.
A few park authorities encourage neatness by re-
quiring a deposit ranging from $1.00 to $5.00,
depending on the size of the ground used and the
number of picnickers. If the grounds are left as
neat and orderly as they were when the picnickers
came the deposit is returned; if not, the deposit
is retained to pay for the cost of policing.

A Self-Supporting Circus
(Continued from page 133)

groups of two with spaces of 6 feet between each
group. The rings with sides 2 feet high are sur-
rounded with red, white and blue bunting. One
side is open to allow the performers to enter and
leave. The property list for construction contains
frames, crepe paper, tacks, thumb tacks, hammers,
wrapping paper, heavy ropes, ticket boxes, laths,
paper bags, wire, bunting, nails and signs.

The End of a Perfect Day

At 5:00 P. M. the siren announces that the
day’s fun is ended. Immediately demobilization
of the booths begins. Everything of value is sal-
vaged and checked into the property room. Any-
thing that could possibly be used for another cir-
cus is saved. In an hour’s time all that remains
on the field is debris from the biggest day of the
summer program. The field is cleaned the fol-
lowing day by men from the welfare agency. The
money is collected, counted, and the bills paid.

Another circus comes to an end, and 50 play
leaders, 300 performers, I50 “joy zone” workers,
and an audience of 6,000 people have had one
glorious day!

Planning the Handcraft Program
(Continued from page 144)

those for intermediate and for advanced groups
on Friday.) It is expected, of course, that the
first time the teacher makes and follows such a
program she will experience difficulties. After
some experience she will find some projects more
difficult than others and some more interesting
than others. Accordingly she will modify her
program by shifting the activities to more suit-
able-times. Many times the availability of sup-
plies or even the development of “crazes,” such
as the cellophane belts, will make it advisable to

 

 

   
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
     
 
 
 
  
   
  
 

     

 

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

DIAMOND

Pitching Horseshoes of special appeal to profes-
sionals. Excellent for amateurs. Just what’s
needed on a playground. Will stand up under
severest treatment. Diamond Officials made
straight or curved toe calk. hard or soft (dead
falling). J u n i o r
model for ladies and
children.

DIAMOND

ACCESSORIES

Score pads. instruction
booklets, rules, percent-
age charts. carrying cases,
steel stakes and stake holders.
official courts ready to set up
indoors or out. Built to con-
form to official requirements.

DIAMOND

CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46l0 Grand Avenue Duluth. Minn.

 

 

m

“Recreation and Unemployment”

O A publication of interest to all individuals
and groups concerned with keeping up the
morale of the unemployed.

O The booklet tells what a number of com-
munity groups are doing to meet the
problem. how buildings of all kinds are
being used as recreation centers. and de-
scribes the activities conducted. Plans for
organization are suggested and information
given regarding the made work prOgram
through which many cities are increasing
their recreation facilities.

 

PRICE $.25

 

National Recreation Association

3|5 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

158 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

        

MAGAZINES

Parks and Recreation, April, 1933.
The Game of Squash Racquets.
Recreational and Park Features at Century of
Progress. -
The Journal of Health and Physical Education, May, 1933.
Training Courses for Camp Leadership, by Barbara
Ellen Joy.

Producing the Dance Pageant, by Lucile Marsh. _

Values in Physical Education, by \Villiam Burdlck,
MD.

Crew for Girls, by Lillian Schuette.

The Education of the Whole Man, by Otto T.
Mallery.

Century of Progress Sports Program, by E. C.
Delaporte. '

Social Welfare, June, 1933.
Leisure, by Humphrey Baker, M.A.

American Childhood, June, 1933.
The Summer Camp in Child Training, by Dorothy
Tyler.

| The American City, May, 1933.
Buffalo Develops Its Waterfront.
Janesville Makes Good Use of Leisure Time.
Unemployment Relief Funds Build Grandstand.

To Restore Land Values by Changing Slums into
Parks.

Child Study, May-June, 1933.
The Summer Adventure, by J. \V. Faust.

PAM PH LETS

Annual Report of the Junior Optimist Clubs of Milwaukee,
April 1, 1932 to April 1, 1933.

Activities Program, South Park System, Chicago, Ill.,
1933.

29th Annual Report of the Metropolitan Park Commis-
sion of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plan-
tations.

Westchester County’s Summer Camps for Boys and Girls.
1933.

Report of Board of Park Commissioners of Wilmington,

Del., 1928-1932.

Annual Report of the Playground Board, Village of Oak
Park, Ill., 1932.

Health Work and Physical Education
Bulletin, 1932. No. 17. United States Department of
the Interior, Ofiice of Education.

The Cataloguing of Children’s Books, by Elva S. Smith.
American Library Association. Price $.25.

adjust her program to include these. The teacher,
if she is sincerely interested in making these ac-
tivities beneficial as well as interesting to the
children, will watch their reactions and progress
very closely and adapt her methods as well as her
program accordingly.

Lincoln E. Rowley

On May I 3th Lincoln E. Rowley, City Clerk of
East Orange, New Jersey, and for twenty-five
years Secretary of the Board of Recreation Com-
missioners, died after a three weeks’ illness. Mr.
Rowley had resigned on April Ist as Secretary of
the Board of Recreation Commissioners, because
of ill health, and his son, John Rowley, was ap-
pointed in his place.

All recreation workers who had the privilege of
knowing Mr. Rowley, and many will remember
him as one of the most faithful attendants at
Recreation Congresses, will recall his devotion to
the recreation movement and the joy and satis-
faction which his connection with the East
Orange recreation program had given him over a
long period of years. As Dr. Kingdon, who con-
ducted the services held for Mr. Rowley, so well
said: “The City of East Orange will never be able
to repay the debt it owes Lincoln Rowley for the
beauty and joy he created through the play-
grounds and parks made possible through his ef-
forts. VVe shall never hear the happy voices of
children without thinking of him.”

Junior Recreation in the Yosemite

National Park

(Continued from page 149)

picture frames from yellow pine bark; pin cush-
ions from incense cedar bark, and many inter-
esting and unusual articles.

At the end of the 1932 season, 4,594 children
had participated—almost twice as many as took

part in the 1931 program.

During the winter the Grizzly Club is being
continued, and we are having winter sports for
children—snow modeling; games and races on ice
skates; fun with skiis and snowshoes; dog team
races, and little red and blue cutters drawn by
Shetland ponies.

Next summer we shall introduce a children’s
nature trail to be built by the children under the
leadership of a park naturalist, a cowboy chorus,
outdoor pageants, and a six day high Sierra trip
on the dependable. burros which are such devoted
friends of the children.

 

New Books on Recreation

 

Time to Live

By Gove Hambidge. Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill
Book Company, New York. $1.50.

DELIGHTFUL adventures in the use of leisure are de-
scribed here by a man who has made the five hour
day his own. He tells his own experience of what time
to live really means, of the approach toward a wise use
of leisure, of the myriad activities mentally and physical
fortifying in which even those who work in oflices can
indulge. He writes intriguingly of the pleasures of gar-
dening, of country living, of games and sports and hand-
icrafts, and shows how the wise use of leisure can help
bring us back to richer living, more generous friend-
ships, and a happier existence generally.

Drama Clubs

By Charles F. Wells. \Valter H. Baker Company, Bos-
ton. $1.00.

MR. \VELLS has performed a very practical service in

putting at the disposal of groups of amateurs these
step by step suggestions for program materials useful for
fun and experience. He tells first of all how to or-
ganize drama clubs and then offers a program of dra-
matic ice—breakers, informal dramatizations, pantomimes,
stunts, charades and short, short plays. Prepared by
the experience gained in these forms of informal drama,
the group is now ready for one act plays. Mr. Wells
offers some suggestions for selecting such plays and out-
lines a number of full evening one act play programs
which offer variety, balance and good drama. The long
play is next discussed and a list of plays given. The
book closes with a drama club program for the year, a
number of suggestions for play production and a
bibliography.

The amateur director will find this book exceedingly
helpful in view of the fact that Mr. Wells not only sug-
gests source material but offers samples of all the var-
ious forms of informal dramatization which he suggests.

Two to Six

By Rose H. Alschuler and the Pre-Primary Faculty of
the VVinnetka, Illinois, Public Schools. William Mor-
row 8: Company, New York. $1.50.

HE SUGGESTIONS to parents of young children offered
in this practical book contain much that is valuable
for the play leader. Particularly is this true of the
chapters dealing with Books, Stories and Poetry, Music.
A Suggested List of Excursions, and Play Materials—

the last an exceedingly practical chapter which lists play- 1

things for each age, appropriate outdoor equipment, and
gives suggestions for play. There is also a bibliography
for parents. The book is concise and all suggestions,
recommendations, lists and bibliographies are the result

of thorough experiments by experienced workers in the
field of child education.

Creative Expression

Edited for The Progressive Education Association by
Gertrude Hartman and Ann Shumaker. The John Day
Company, New York. $5.00.

This FASCINATING book presents the development of

children in art, music, literature and dramatics.

Throughout emphasis is placed on the child’s own modes
of self expression through all the creative arts as op-
posed to more adult standards of finish and perfection.
More than sixty teachers and leaders in the progressive
education movement and in the field of various arts have
contributed their experiences to this unique book. There
are many interesting and beautiful illustrations, many
of them the work of the children themselves. Bibliog-
raphies add to the value of the book.

An Experiment in Recreation with

the Mentally Retarded

By Bertha Schlotter and Margaret Svendsen. Behavior
Research Fund, Chicago. $.85 Postpaid.

THIS INTERESTING document reports the findings of a

joint project initiated over three years ago by a Lin-
coln State School and Colony and the Illinois Institute
for Juvenile Research under the direction of the State
Department of Public Welfare. The monograph describes
a practicable program in action which has revolutionized
the training of the children in this school. In addition
to the principles used in formulating the project, the
monograph also contains a theoretical analysis of the
structure of games and game lists based upon mental and
chronological age. The authors point out that although
the observations reported were made on mentally retarded
children living in an institution, the knowledge gathered
may 'be utilized in the play programs of the mentally
retarded and in the public schools. The report is there-
fore of interest to recreation workers as well as to edu—
cators and workers in institutions.

The game analysis and lists may be secured for 25
cents postpaid.

Fun in Bed

Edited 'by Frank Scully. Simon & Schuster, New York.
$2.00.

THERE WILL BE no days of boredom for the convales-

cent who includes this book among the tonics guar-
anteed to 'bring back health! A feature which will prove
a special boon is the section entitled “Games and Gags.”
Here are games, brain ticklers, novelties and solitaire
contests which cannot fail to amuse. There are cross-

word puzzles, bridge puzzles, word games, mental tests,
and other forms of harmless “whoopee” for those “inter-
minable horizontal hours.”

159

160 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Americans At Play

By Jesse F. Steiner. McGraw-Hill Book Company,
New York. $2.50.

Recent trends in recreation and leisure time activities
are traced in this book, one of the series of monographs
prepared under the direction of the President’s Commit-
tee on Social Trends in the United States. For the pur-
poses of this study emphasis was placed primarily upon
parks and playgrounds, competitive sports and games,
commercial amusements, leisure time clubs and associa—
tions, pleasure travel and the varied activities associated
with outdoor vacation life. Consideration has not been
given to the intellectual and cultural leisure time pursuits.
In spite of limitations in sc0pe, the author has been able
to present a fairly adequate picture of the more import-
ant recreational trends during recent years.

A Handbook of Acting

Based on the New Pantomime, by Madame Eva
Alberti. Samuel French, New York City. $2.00.

This new and valuable book on acting has an ad—
vantage over many such publications in that it is so read—
able that the layman can study it with understanding and
pleasure. It does not make him feel that acting is a
difficult, obscure art, of so highly technical a nature that
it must be left to others more gifted than himself, but it
explains the technique so simply and so invitingly that it
stimulates interest and confidence while it instructs. Per-
haps this is due to the particular viewpoint of the writer.
Acting is such a many-sided business that practically
every director looks at it from a different angle. One
director may feel that in the voice alone lies the magic
something that turns one into another creature; another
advocates complete understanding of the character, which
brings it proper attitude of the body and of its own force
puts the voice where it belongs.

Madame Alberti, recognized as one of the foremost
teachers of expression, has had years of experience in
teaching the art of pantomime and so approaches acting
from that side. Since skillful pantomime is probably the
amateur’s knottiest problem, this book by one of the
foremost authorities in the field is of special interest.

Often there is only a hair’s breadth between the act-
ing of the professional and the amateur. And almost in-
variably that difference lies in the professional actor’s
ability to handle his body, to fuse the emotion with the
gesture so accurately that the illusion of the character
is perfect. Madame Alberti recognizes pantomime as the
basis of acting and it is upon the new, free pantomime,
not the old conventionalised gesturing, that she bases
her book. An inexperienced actor or director could not
fail to obtain much that is of real value by studying and
applying the technique which the writer has used during
the years of her eminently successful career as a teacher
of acting.

"Kit" 33 . .
Edited by Lynn and Katherine Rohrbough. Church
Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

“Kit” 33 is a Game Number which recreation workers
will want to secure. In addition to the games, there are
a number Of puzzles which will be welcomed 'by all who
indulge in this form of “indoor sport.” There are almost
sixty games and puzzles in this compact little aid to social
recreationalists.

Rural Adult Education

By Benson Y. Landis and John D. \Villard. The
Macmillan Company, New York. $1.75.

This book is particularly significant in view of the fact
that for the first time we are given a complete account
of the important adult education programs which are
affecting the 53,000,000 inhabitants of rural districts in
the United States. The book gives the results of the
findings of a national study on rural adult education car-
ried on since 1928 -by the American Association for Adult
Education and describes in detail the many influences for

adult education in rural districts. Recreation workers
will be particularly interested in the chapter on cultural
arts which tells of deveIOpments in amateur dramatics
and music, art extension, landscape improvement and in
the rural recreation program through which the National
Recreation Association is giving special service to rural
groups. A valuable bibliography is offered.

Twice 55—Part Songs for Boys

The Orange Book. Compiled and edited by Peter
\V. Dykema. C. C. Birchard & Company, Boston,
Mass. $.50.

This collection seeks to meet the problem of finding
music for the changing voices of adolescent boys. The
fact that the collection represents a wide variety in range
is due to the fact that a number of new songs have been
written and new arrangements made for others which
were selected for their adaptability to the necessary limi-
tations of range, as well as for their merit and interest.

Recreational Proiects For Civic Clubs

Department of Municipal Recreation. Board of Park
Commissioners. Evansvllle, Indiana. $.50.

A mimegraphed bulletin of thirty-one pages containing
suggestions for conducting athletic leagues and tourna-
ments of various kinds, for special day and holiday cele-
brations and similar events, picnics and progressive game
parties and other social gatherings. The use of school
buildings, sportsmanship prOgrams and many other sub-
jects of interest to recreation workers are discussed.

Full Steam Aheadl

By Henry B. Lent. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $2.00.

Here are fascinating accounts of six days on an ocean
liner for the would-be-young-traveler full of questions
about what goes on in a big boat from bridge to engine
room. Boys in particular will 'be intrigued by this glimpse
of life aboard an ocean liner.

 

 

Officers and Directors Of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEv, First Vice-President

£OHN G. WINANT, Second Vice~President
OBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARO S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDwARO \V. BIOOLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERwORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. CORBETT Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVIsON, Locust Valley, L. I. N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, W'est Orange,  J.
EHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

UOH FRAYNE, 1\ew York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
WILLIAM HALE HARKNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York N. Y.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City Ind.
MRS. FRANcIS OELACY HYDE, Plainfield, 1\. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANOON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
£OSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

OWARO E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.
J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRs. OGOEN L. MILLs, Washington, D. C.
FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, JR., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
OHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

RS. WILLIAH H. WOODIN, JR., Plainficld, N. J.

