Activity Versus Possessions

HE UNCERTAINTY as to material property values under present conditions has
resulted in greater desire for actiV1ty, for craftsmanship, for fulfillment, for

creativeness.

No longer is it a disgrace to be poor. Just having property is no longer
cons1dered an excuse for being.

Are you a person? Can you do something? Have you some skill? Are
you going somewhere? Are you alive? Do others have pleasure in your en joy-
ment of life? Do music, art, skill, have meaning for you? Is there light in your
eyes? Is there healing in watching yOur strength because there is a swing, a whole-
ness to your living, your being, your life?

We have many, many words for possessions, for things, but we lack even
words for referring to vital living, to being alive, wholeness of personality, grac-
ious living—there are no phrases that tell the story of abundant life, of satisfy-
ing life. Art and sport and satisfying activity and fulflllment are perhaps as little
objectionable as any words we have. -

Hunting, fishing, are good words not so much because of game and fish,
but because of woods and nature and act1v1ty. Swrmmlng,‘ skating, sailing, are
simple, clear, definite words and carry a picture of activity and aliveness.

Play, recreation, leisure-craft, are poverty stricken words because as yet
we have put so little meaning into them.

Emerson, Theodore Roosevelt, Lindbergh, Byrd, Helen Wills Moody,
Jane Addams, such names carry the picture of skillful, adventurous, creative liv—
ing of a life.

Education ultimately will imply more than it does today as to helping
people to come alive. After all that is what recreation leaders care about. What
do people want to do, want to be in order to live in this world here and now?
What gives enduring satisfaction, the memory of having lived?

The more sides a man has to his nature, the more he sees the art and skill
required in all forms of human activity, the more inclined he is to say that noth-
ing human is foreign to him. Theodore Roosevelt was no less a man when he
was galloping on horseback, or swimming, or boxing, than when he was listening
to the best music in the world, or when he was studying the birds in the forest.
There are twenty—four hours in each day. There are many sides to men who live
completely and fully, and much goes into the making of a life.

The art of living is the art to which the recreation worker devotes him-
self, though he must remember that he is not the only one who does so. It is his
task to help men, women, and children to live now, fully, and to have present
full living lead to more permanently satisfying living as the years come and go.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

July, 1933

 

16]

- in

'"V
I.

“'7

- July Ushers in Vacation Days

. a
’1; _.
“V
I"
M
,1, ’
if
,
i
«5’

*l

I
W
i, m

C ourfcsy California Pa rcn f—Tm char

"Don't let them cut down on your education.

Don't let them cut down on agencies deal-

The

economic crisis.

ing with children. children mustn't

suffer in this You can

162

 

always build your bridges and your roads.
It you neglect your children you can nev-
er build them again." Lady Astor in the
Boys’ C1115 News Bulletin, January, l933.

The Flower Market Tot Lot Playground

In the June issue of Recreation Paul Shriver, Philadelphia Play-
grounds Association, tells of the beginning of the Flower Market
Tot Lot Playground. In this number he completes the story of the
first four years of this interesting venture, still in its infancy.

URING THE third year of the existence of the

Tot Lot Playground we enforced very

strictly our age limit of eight years, and as

a result there was room for more children from

outside our immediate block. \Ve therefore ini-

tiated, with the help of an old Ford coupe which
we bought, the Traveling Playground.

The Traveling Playground Makes Its Rounds

The number of small children who came to the
playground were cared for by the leader during
the afternoon while I made visits to adjoining
courts, streets and communities within a radius
of four blocks. In the back of the coupe we
piled the street barriers, fire plug spray, two cases
of milk and boxes of Graham crackers. The milk
and crackers were contributed daily by a group
of interested citizens and represented what was
left from assembly period when we gave the
younger children from 150 to 200 bottles of milk
and three Graham carckers each.

The older boys wanted to ride with me in the
old rattletrap machine and to help turn on the
spray and distribute the milk and crackers. Here
was an opportunity to keep them busy even
though they were not allowed on the playground

except as helpers. In the course of our routine
we visited every afternoon a different crowded
corner. There we put on the fire plug shower,
cooled off the children who came out of little side
courts and hovels, and fed them milk and crack-
ers, enforcing the age limit of eight years for
feeding. After refreshments we played several
games with the children or told them stories.
Then we advertised our playground and person-
ally conducted the smaller children in the crowd
to the playground. Thus the small children were
protected from traffic as well as from children
from other streets who might harm them. The
parents were interested and helped, for formerly
many a mother had been afraid to let her child
come because of the railroad tracks, and bridge
or street traffic. The result was that she had kept
the child at home, and a survey proved that these
children under eight years had the highest num-
ber of fatalities because when the mother was
busy the little one wandered away and conse-
quently was hurt.

Our traveling playground was a great success
and the results were far reaching. Many new

It was one of the children who thought of making
orange crates serve as chairs in the story hour

 

164 THE FLOWER MARKET TOT LOT PLAYGROUND

 

children came every day.
Activities were more ease

ily carried out; donations

of scrap material were more readily obtained. \Ve
even received a piano which was a helpful asset
to our assembly and moving picture programs.
Occasional visits of the leader, board members
and reporters of various papers at our stops
helped to spread the, spirit of good—will.

To increase the spirit of pride in the ground
and create an interest in regular attendance, we
began the “Tot Lot Tattler.” The editor, report—
ers and all directors were children from the play-
ground. Anyone was allowed to write articles re-
porting events of interest. The newspaper was
made of long strips of white wrapping paper, and
there was only one copy. This we hung in strips
on a place painted for it on the high board fence.
From this project grew a pride in achievement
and a spirit of good humor.

Still another means which we used to raise
general standards was the crowning of the King
of Freckles and the Queen of the Mardi Gras.
Real thrones were erected and decorated from
scrap materials, burlap dyed in suitable colors,
and old sheets for trains.

The Playground Village proved one of the most
fascinating proiects undertaken at the grounds

Motion Pictures

The time was now ripe to in-
terest the older people. \Ve were
fortunate in securing the services
of the Philadelphia Electric Mo-
tion Picture Department which
showed regular feature pictures
interwoven with the industrial
story and “Our Gang” comedies.
Later we obtained excellent pic-
tures, both silent and vitaphone
films, from the Bell Telephone,
the Philadelphia Gas “'orks and
o t h e r industrial companies.
Sometimes these companies sent
operators; on other occasions we
secured the machine and films
and ran the show OUrselves. The
electricity was furnished by var-
ious nearby fruit commission
houses. The machine was set up
on a table in the rear of the play-
ground and the pictures flashed
on a large whitewashed space on
one of the high brick walls of an
abandoned store. The young
men furnished us with
piano, banjo and guitar
- music which made an ex-

cellent accompaniment not only to the pictures
but to the community sings held during the inter-
vals of twilight and darkness. Thus the play-
ground made its first real start toward a com-
munity affair with services furnished for all ages.

The Playground Village Arouses Pride

The Inter-State Dairy Council furnished us
with several puppet shows, story-tellers and post-
ers or plays for assembly with costumes to suit.
This helped to promote interest in handcraft.

The final climax of handcraft work for the
season was an excellent playground village. The
Leaders’ Club grew considerably in numbers dur—
ing the building of “Flowertown.” Many inter—-
esting buildings came into being. There was, for
example, a private estate, a spacious red brick
house with bright purple awnings. vivid yellow
paper curtains, and a green trellis covered with
well made artificial sweet peas. Splashes of green
paint on a cement walk represented grass and
sticks with bits of green tissue from orange crates
tied around their tops did well for trees. Small

THE FLOWER MARKET TOT LOT PLAYGROUND 165

lamp posts, whitewashed streets, a livery stable,
stores, a blackshmith shop and garages side by
side with pasteboard wooden homes neatly
painted, served to complete the picture.

At the End of the Third Year

Our conclusions at the end of the third year
were nearly the same as those of the second. Even
though there was an improvement in the morale
of the community and in playground activity and
influence, there were still many children who had
not been reached. A selfish spirit still prevailed
with not enough constructive activities in evi—
dence. There was need for greater emphasis on
certain activities to promote carry-overs of the
activities which would serve as constructive rec—
reation during the winter months. Funds were
scarce, only about $50 having been spent in three
years for such materials
as crepe paper, nails and
other supplies. All the
rest of the materials
used in the various ac—
tivities were salvaged or
begged from various
sources.

"Play is an attitude.

And Now the Fourth
Year !

Now for the fourth
year which early in the
season bade fair to be
the final year of work in
this neighborhood unless the people took more in—
terest and tried to help themselves. The prospect
was discouraging. We sometimes wondered if
we were not wasting our time and might not bet—
ter go to another neighborhood. How glad we
are that we didn’t!

Several pre-season visits to the ground in April
brought pleas from all ages: “Give us some—
thing to do!” To meet this request we organized
a civic committee among certain influential adults
who helped us to assemble scrap wood to de-
veIOp projects which could be given the children
to work on weeks in advance of the summer
playground season. At scheduled meetings a
group of the older boys and girls would come
with saws, hammers and any other tools they
could find. \Ve made flower boxes, small houses,
toys and other handcraft patterns to serve as
models for our handcraft program when the sea-
son opened. The civic committee of adults helped

It is not so much what one , ,
does as how he feels about what he does that to have aSSIStance 1“
makes the difference between play and drudgery.
It is a mistake to leta child acquire a sharp distinc-
tion between play ond work, to believe that play is
pleasurable and useless while work is necessary
and distasteful. Let him learn that all activity is fun,
that life itself is a game, that a vocation can, and
should, be iust os pleasurable as an avocation,
and you have started him on the pathway to a
wholesome adult life. The greater the number of
diverse activities the child is encouraged to enioy,
the greater his chances of keeping the zestful atti—
tude of play toward all of life."—/o}m]. B. Morgan,
in Chifd Study, December, l932 -_

to get the dirt, fill the improvised flower boxes,
plant the seeds and water and cultivate the flow—
ers to be installed later at the playground when
it had been officially opened. They also set to
work to clear off the ground which this year had
become covered with bricks and timbers from the
old abandoned factory torn down by the children
during the winter for fire-wood. In this way we
secured more space for the playground. .

By the time July first had rolled around, all
ages were willing to help and considerable inter-
est had been created in the program of the com—
ing summer. Much cleaning up still had to be
done after we began our playground program, and
as the first flush of high spirits wore off it be—
came necessary to devise some idea to speed up
the work. The Evening Ledger described the
scheme we concocted as follows:

“ The supervisor of
Tot Lot Playground had

moving some bricks, but
it was no ‘go.’ Then he
found an old gasoline
can and with a stick
painted targets on the
tin cans. Very casually
he placed the cans in the
center of the spot on the
official dump where the
bricks were to be car—
ried. By the end of the

1—55 afternoon all of the
bricks had been thrown at the target and the
ground was cleared.”

Next we decided to make each portion of the
ground mean something in order to combat the
destructive instincts and promote constructive ac-
tivities for all ages and groups. This would, at
the same time, protect the principal portion of the
playground for kindergarten play work, and the
small tots would not be frightened away again '
by physical conflict with the older ones.

-—-—1

 

The older boys wanted to use the plug spray
to clean up and cool off after their arduous ac—
tivities, but this year the. Water Bureau had not
seen fit to give out any permits. Instead of sitting
down and doing without, as they formerly would
have done, this now awakened group set to work.
In two days, with the help of a carpenter and
some cement, broken up bricks and scrap lumber
were converted into a small wading pool, 18 by
18 feet and 1% feet deep. When it was finished

166 THE FLOWER MARKET TOT LOT PLAYGROUND

the groups were so happy over their achievement
that they worked without ceasing the rest of the
season! The signs, “Bathing Ocean” and “Ocean
Boardwalk” were painted for the children by a
sign painter. The boardwalk was made of scrap
boards; the beach of gravel and sand left over
from the wading pool.

This took care of one nook. In another corner
the younger boys built benches and made a “clean
up corner.” There they all washed their hands
before milk period and handcraft work.

To a certain extent we had now cared for the
small children, but the older boys began to beg us
to let them stay and help so an activity had to be
provided for them. A “Safety Club” proved the
solution. At the suggestion of Mrs. Elizabeth
Hanley, our dramatic director, a “Careful Club”
was organized for girls, a “Safety Club” for boys.
The Safety and Careful Club members were used
as supervisors of various activities, and every day
at 2:00 P. M. and 7:00 P. M. they made trips
under the watchful eye of an adult volunteer to
every part of the neighborhood within four blocks
on all sides of the playground. All children wish-
ing safe conduct to the playground were sent in
charge of these “safeties.”

An Open Air Theatre

In addition to the neighborhood safety work
carried on by the safety squads, we conducted
open air movies on safety in scattered streets near
our playground. Let us give you a picture of one
of our open air theatres conducted in the name
of safety.

Before the performance the children go around
the neighborhood and everyone who wants to join
the parade can do so, in fancy costume or other-
wise! Some hold signs and banners reading
“Safety first,” “Play in the playground,” “Cross
at Crossings.” Others bang on lard cans, gasoline
cans, oil cans—anything to make a noise. The
noise comes nearer and a horde of children come
trooping in.

And now for our stage. Our stereopticon ma-
chine is placed on a table in a roped off space in
front of a store whose friendly owner allows us
to use his light socket. Across the street another
space is roped off as a stage and a white curtain
is hung on the sidewall of a house. In the street
and all around the roped off spaces are rows and
rows of chairs, and orange boxes supporting
boards. All the children who can possibly get in
are packed shoulder to shoulder. The others sit

or kneel on the pavement and curb, hang from
fences or out of second story windows or other
vantage points. They are a merry crowd, and as
they wait they whistle, applaud or sing in groups.
Often we have a community sing until it is dark
enough to show the pictures.

The Country Store

The Keystone Club Safety Department has
provided us with posters, safety material and
plays. One play containing a country store setup
was put on by the children for a special assembly
and official initiation of the Safety Club members.
This store was the means of promoting many
future activities. It gave the children a needed
stimulus for their imagination and the store, with
its empty cartons and tins, was constantly in use.
Our “Tot Lot Tattler,” most of whose announce-
ments are written or told by the children, has the
following to say about the store:

“Ye Olde Flower Mart”

“There positively will be no credit given at our
store. Read the signs and you’ll understand our
policy. No credit—no trust. \V e pay—you
trust.”

Business of all kinds was conducted in the
store. \Vorn out cardboard shoe boxes, rags of
dresses and merchandise of all kinds were han—
dled. Paper money, stage money, coins from bot—
tle tops and poker chips passed as the medium of
exchange. The clerks at times were legion, and
we were occasionally almost deafened by the bed-
lam of the hawkers as they cried their wares and
imitated a real life situation.

Corners of All Kinds

An “Oldsters’ Corner” was established which
kept the young men in a certain place without in-
terfering with other activities. These boys were
a real help in maintaining discipline and setting a
good example for the youngsters.

Other nooks and corners of the ground were
made into athletic corners. One place was a
jumping pit surrounded by nicely whitewashed
bricks arranged in a neat design. In another we
placed a discarded water pipe as a chinning bar
In still another we had a baseball pitching frame.
These were excellent places to work off excess
energy that formerly had led to destructive
activities.

The flowers grown in the abandoned lumber
yard were placed in the boxes on all sides, on tops
of walls and every place where we could stick up

THE FLOWER MARKET TOT LOT PLAYGROUND 167

a trellis for them to climb. Each child had his own
garden with a cross stick sign denoting his own-
ership stuck in the ground. The first thing the
children did when we opened Tot Lot every day
was to see what had happened in the new gar-
den. At the end of the season we used the flowers
to stage a Flower Mart as behtted the legendary
history of the grounds. Jean Barrett, The Rec-
ord’s feature writer, describes it:

“In the confines of their dirt covered corners
at the end of a reeking court, the children built
booths and decorated them with gay paper.
Young sub—debs, thinner even than fashion de-
mands, volunteered as ‘salesladies.’ There were
refreshment booths with real lemonade and milk
and a ‘hot dog’ stand as well. Of course, these
delicacies had to be sold!

“There isn’t any money at Tot Lot—not a dime
-— out they overcame that—they made their own!
They turned out volumes of it, even thousand
dollar bills, and issued it from their own bank
parked in the corner of the lot—a tremendous
fortune. They went up to the teller’s window and
ordered as much money as they wanted. But re-
gardless of the size of their ‘rolls’ each child
bought the same things—something to eat, a glass
of milk, a truly lovely nosegay of flowers or a
potted plant to take back to the tenements they
call home.”

Thus Philadelphia children were the first to in-
augurate the barter system!

Another climax in the handcraft program for
girls was the doll exhibit. From crown to toe the
dolls present were the loving work of their mis—
tresses. There weren’t any dolls that cried “Ma—

 
   
  
  
    

ma” or opened or
closed their eyes. I, 1 hi
Of course, it

was a very

\.

Courtesy Louisville Recreation Division.

exclusive affair. There were candy dolls, vege-
table dolls, paper dolls, dolls of all kinds. On a
bed of pink crepe paper roses Sleeping Beauty,
resplendent in a robe of yellow crepe paper and
hair of yellow silk embroidery floss, dreamed of
the Prince, as a dainty white crepe paper bride
bent inquirineg above her, and over in one cor-
ner the Vegetable Queen, her fluffy green skirts
the leaves of a head of lettuce, her bodice a slim
carrot, her arms string beans attached by means
of toothpicks and her head a marshmallow topped
with a carrot plume, smiled democratically at the
whole throng.

As a result of the village, the exhibits and other
handcraft work, combined with the motion pic—
tures, a startling effect was shown in many a fam-
ily's mode of living. Tenants prevailed on land-
lords to equip some of the houses with gas and
electricity. It was pressure of public opinion
against degredation.

Our stafic this year still consisted of one teacher
and myself, but it was supplemented by unem-
ployed volunteer workers and the famous “Toc
H” Fraternity which sent two young men every
night to help. Barent Landstreet, their leader,
with his enthusiasm also supplemented our staff,
and with his spirit of service dignified the play-
ground activities and kept the interest of the
young men in the “Oldsters’ Club” at a high pitch.

As the climaxes were reached in various activi-
ties, we began to notice carry—overs of games,
songs and activities into the courts during week-
ends and morning periods when the playground
was not open. The children had begun to learn
that most important factor in a child's life—how
to play. This carry-over cropped up also among
the older crowd, for they didn’t want the work

to stop. They wanted some place where they

could congregate at the end of the season and
some activity instead of the usual drink-
ino' gambling, crap shooting and

by
billiard parlor vices.

Clubs Multiply

From the bank which owned the
delapidated house at the end of our
court we obtained permission to use
the house rent free in return for

One of the numerous activities
which help to make a club pro-
gram interesting to older boys

168 THE FLOWER MARKET TOT LOT PLAYGROUND

-remodeling it. The young men fixed holes in the
floor, put bricks in the walls, window panes in the
frames, hung curtains at the windows, papered
the walls, brought furniture and otherwise adorn-
ed their club house known as the “Castle Club.”
With each visit we made we found improvement.
Regular parliamentary procedure was followed;
initiation rules were observed, and part of the
funds raised was used for welfare purposes.

For a time after the close of the playground
the Castle Club used the open space for fall
sports. Youngsters were there in almost as large
numbers as during the summer season. The boys
Under sixteen decided they wanted a club and
formed what is known as the “Palace Club,”
with headquarters in an abandoned house across
the alley from the Castle Club. The girls, too,
caught the fever and became a branch of the
Needle Work Guild. In this surprising manner
we witnessed the influence of the summer contin—
uing on through the year!

One of the most remarkable activities of the
Castle Club is the work of its welfare committee.
A survey was conducted in the neighborhood by
the committee which resulted in the selection of
six families, who, according to the findings, were
not being assisted by welfare agencies and were
greatly in need. of help. The survey also brought
to light the fact that certain families who were
receiving food orders from the city unemploy—
ment fund, according to the club’s report, were
“chiseling.” The indignation of the members was
not only genuine but showed how far they had
advanced in new standards of justice, for “chisel-
ing” had been one of their own chief occupations
in the past! Out of their club dues of ten cents a
week these members are paying the expenses of
the club and providing food and fuel for six
families. In January the club conducted its first
dance—a success in every way. One-half of the
profits went to the welfare fund.

When inclement weather caused the discontinu-
ance of outdoor sports at the playground, the boys
began to ask where they could find a sport center
large enough to have basketball, boxing and other
sports. They came to their old friend, the Play-
grounds Association, and asked that the matter be
considered. Mr. Landstreet undertook a study of
the district. He found another club, “The Acorn,”
similar to the Castle Club at the other end of the
seventh police district, who were as keen to have
larger headquarters as were the Castle Club boys.

With the aid of Captain McFarland a survey

was made by the police of vacant property in the
entire district. A three story building with a fine
basement was discovered. Both The Acorn and
the Castle Club agreed to enroll I 50 or more mem-
bers. Captain McFarland was most enthusiastic.
“I do all I can,” he said, “to prevent first offend-
ers from being locked up in my station. Once a
boy is locked up, no matter how trivial the charge,
it is the beginning of his gang career and we
know he will be back again with more serious
charges. This club will be a wonderful thing for
the seventh district. No longer will the boys be
able to find an excuse for corner lounging or get-
ting into trouble because there is no place of in-
terest to go. I am making arrangements with the
magistrate to issue a membership to the club for
first offenders.”

Assured of the most cooperative and friendly
attitude on the part of the police and impressed
by the demands made by the boys themselves, the
director of the Playgrounds Association decided
to sponsor the club and in January the Center
Club was a going concern. The preliminary or-
ganization of activities of this club was not the
only unique feature of the venture. The Play-
grounds Association agreed to finance the first
month’s expenses while the boys conducted their
membership drive. Dances, raffles and admission
charges to special sports events were some of the
means found to help cover operating expenses.
From that time on the members agreed to make
the club self-supporting. The director and assist—
ant director were loaned from the staff of the
Playgrounds Association.

The executive committee was formed by ap—
pointing the officers of the Castle and Acorn
Clubs. It was not long before many on the police
force in the seventh district became members of
the club and made good use of its facilities when
off duty. House matches between teams of
police and the boys were played in basketball,
volley ball, boxing, checkers and other games.

Again the “Toc H” men volunteered and ap-
peared every night to help.

The club is open every afternoon except Sun-
day and every evening including Sunday from
7:00 to 11:00 P. M. Its spirit is notable. The
free and friendly intercourse between the police
and the young men is the result of a number of
discoveries. The boys find the “cops” fine fellows
and the “c0ps” find the boys equally “good kids.”
The barrier formerly existing is breaking down.

_(C0minued on page 202)

Playing in the Water

By FLOYD EASTWOOD

School of Education
New York University

active to live. Those individuals who are not
active, we say in the vernacular, “pass out of
the picture.” They assume the horizontal. This
is due to the biological drive or pull to activity.
Play is a psychological need. Play is interest—
ing and it gives the opportunity of learning a new
skill in an interesting way. Therefore play has a
psychological drive.

Play is sociological. \Ve play also for social ap-
proval. \V e might say that this is the sociological
drive. You say, “I am doing this because I get a
‘kick’ out of it.” You do things because you get
a kick out of them, and you obtain that kick from
someone's else reaction to you—social approval,
if you wish.

Game situations give an individual an oppor-
tunity to obtain social approval. You see indi-
viduals commend each other in games when some-
one makes a good play. \Yhat does this social ap-
proval depend on? It depends on success. 50 re-
member, in all your games, to give every indi-
vidual some chances of success.

PLAY is a biological necessity. We must be

Learning to Play

You will find that you have laws of learning to
consider when teaching a new game. First you
must have the individual want to play the game.
Then that individual will want to continue to play
so as to become more proficient, because he an-
ticipates the feeling of pleasure which accom—
panies success.

What has this to do with the problem of swim-
ming fears, that we all know so much about, and

In the series of lectures given
last year by the Wingate Memor-
ial Foundation, Mr. Eastwood
presented some unusually inter-
esting material on water games.
A part of his lecture, as it ap-
peared in Scholastic Coach, Jan-
uory, I933, is reprinted here for
the benefit of readers of Recrea-
tion. All of the I93I-32 lectures
are incorporated in a book en-
titled Aims and M clhods in School
Athletics, published by the Foun-
dation, 57 East 56th Street,
New York City.

 

so little how to correct? In the game situation, we
have the opportunity of overthrowing to a cer-
tain extent the fear of loss of support which is
often experienced in the water.

\Ve have considered that games are enjoyable
and that we learn many skills by playing. Games,
or some of them, may be used in reconditioning
swimmers and removing swimming fear. I want
to stress the need for a proper attitude on the part
of the instructor. The attitude of the teacher may
ruin the whole game. He may stand on the side-
lines and let the game proceed and never enter
into the spirit'of it.

In games, you should notice one item that may
ruin the interest in play when swimming—the
coldness of the water. I will try to give you an
example later on as to how you can use warming-
up exercises in a play spirit to get warm. Some
who are instructors in swimming pools know it is
true that pupils get cold and can’t listen to in-
structions. The value of play is then ruined.

Selecting the Games

How should we select games that are the most
joyous to the group? In answer I am going to
mention several rules that .should be remembered.

I. The rules of the games should be few and
simple. Involved rules will ruin a game. The
ideal games are where you throw the ball in and
have as few rules as possible.

2. That there should be activity for most of the
individuals most of the time. Let us not in om
games develop “spectatoritis.”

169

170 PLAYING IN THE WATER

3. Remember that we should not require a
large amount of equipment. The pool is the nat-
ural facility that you have. Have as few other
things in addition as possible.

Then, of course, all know the following:

4. Adapt the games to the age of the child and
to the sex. i

5. Adjust your selection to the immediate in-
terest of the individual. I may change the name
of the game just because of an event that has
stood out in the newspaper, and swing my inter-
est into that line because of some headline that
has appeared in the paper. Be sure that the head—
line is educative, though, and proper. Some of
the newspaper headlines are not very educative.

6. In high schools there is usually a corrective
program. Remember, you have a wonderful op-
portunity in water therapy to use the swimming
pool for specihc groups—that is, corrective groups.

7. Don’t set up a game that is going to give the
possibility for a poor swimmer to lose confidence
and thereby develop an initial fear of the water.

8. Finally, select games which in the main have
the opportunity of being recorded and able to
show individual progress; call them_ achievement
charts if you wish; call them what you will, but
something that gives a picture of individual im-
provement.

I want you to appreciate that I
am not offering water games as a
panacea for teaching swimming.
Yet I do say that too
much of our instruction
is so formalized that it
has no appeal. Every
period should include at
least five to eight min-
utes of games and this
part of the period should
n e v e r be eliminated.
Sometimes you and I
learn to swim by playing
games, many of us learn—
ed in the swimming hole,
while some of us have
tried to be taught in
swimming pools under
formalized instruction
for years and never been
able to learn.

The best instruction, I

believe, is the squad sys-
tem where you develop a

pu----—-uu-—--— —- __,, ._ -..-_,......._ I

Everyone should learn to swim not only as
a safety measure but for the ioy it gives!

system of helpers. The squad size should be any-
where from four to twelve, but I would suggeSt
keeping it around eight.

Hints on Teaching

\Vhen we have our classes and squads arrang-
ed, how are we going to teach the game? I first
want you to consider that natural activities are
the hardest to teach. The reason generally is
that we haven’t thought through the difficulties
that lie ahead. May I suggest these steps that
perhaps will overcome some of them. First, name
your games, and have that name short and catchy.
Use a little ingenuity. Second, give a short ex-
planation of the game. Make it short but explain
the rules clearly. Third, give a short explanation
of the formation the players are to take in the
pool. Fourth, have them ask questions. Fifth,
answer the questions, if there are any, on the for-
mation, or the rules of the game before they go
into the water. Sixth, tell them to take the de-
scribed formations that you have given them.
Seventh, ask if there are any more questions.
\Vith regard to question, may I also suggest to
you that you say, “Hands, please,” because every—
one is at first unsociable in the game situation and
in this way you make them conscious of the group.

Games for Beginners

May I suggest the
following games for
the beginners and give

 

PLAYING IN THE WATER 171

reasons for their values. The
first is the Turtle Float. Most
teachers are familiar with
this activity. The knees are
brought to the chest, the chin
on the chest, and the breath
is held for a certain length of
time. This is valuable in giv-
ing the individual a sensation
of being able to float in the
water. The second is the
Face-Submerged Float which
can be used either for time
or distance. Then we have the Steamboat which
is the method of pushing off in a Face-Sub-
merged Float position. The hands are in line with
the ears, and the legs are kicked up and down
with the fiutter kick. We use the Log Rolling to
give them a sensation of changing position in the
water. I am sure that most individuals are con-
scious of the fact that the beginner in the water
cannot usually remain calm when he changes from
one side to the other. A suggestion for this is the
specific idea of rolling over and over, hands over
the head, for two or three times. Competition in
this comes between squads—each one who does it
twice scores a point for his team or squad. Of
course, advanced swimmers can do a variation of
log rolling using the arms, turning continually
and progressing forward first with the crawl and
then with the backstroke.

Then there are the group activities such as
Circle Bobbing; holding hands in a circle and
ducking underneath the water. Poison as it is
played in the gymnasium can be played in the
swimming pool. The Centipede Race with indi-
viduals lining up, one in front of the other, with
the hands around the waist of the man in front,
and using the lock-step across the pool. This gives
a feeling of balance in the water. Most teachers
are familiar with Cat Fight, but some call it
Horse and Rider. One person sits on another’s
shoulders, the top man trying to force the other
rider off. The Bobbing Relay _is another game.
Scramble is a game similar to water polo, but it is
played in the shallow end of the pool. Then there
is the Wheelbarrow Race which gives you an op-
portunity of supporting an individual and as well
to teach him several of the elementary strokes.

Games for Fair Swimmers

The second group of games is for fair or ad—
vanced swimmers. One objective is to Improve

"The art of swimming is increasing very
rapidly, and human beings are attaining
a great mastery over the comparatively
unfamiliar element of water. But for the
great majority ofthose who need to swim
more, let us not neglect to keep swimming
a great game, full of fun and color and
glamorous experience. Let us have pag-
eants and plays with a purpose, if pos-
sible, or maybe plays just to entertain,
but let us have them and be in them or
watch them, according to our inclination."

W 1766!! E. Longfellow, in W alerPageanls,
by Clive McCormick, A.S. Barnes and Co.

form and water confidence
A good individual activity is
jumping into the water and
doing a front somersault. Of
course, you are familiar with
the porpoise dive—jack-knif-
ing to the bottom and push-
ing up to the surface and
leveling off for another dive.
Double or triple swimming
is very good and can be used
with the breast stroke, back
stroke or the crawl. It is very
helpful in developing swimming strokes, espe—
cially the leg stroke. Follow the leader is another
game which is interesting. First, dive in; second,
reverse crawl; third, the dog paddle; fourth, the
dog paddle with the fiutter kick; and finally, sink-
ing and leveling off. One team may compete
against the other for speed or form, in a re-
stricted area.

. Group Activities

Start off in shallow water and tread water with
hands on the next individual’s shoulders the
length of the pool. There should be four men in
the group, with their hands on each other’s
shoulders and just a leg kick is used. We have
also the game that is played with one individual
in the middle of a circle and the other individuals
holding hands in the form of a circle and trying
to force one of their number to touch the swim-
mer who is treading water in the middle. There is
also the arch relay, which is swimming underneath
each other’s legs while the person standing must
scull with the hands while keeping the legs wide
apart. In shallow water, of course, they can stand
on the bottom. water Kick Ball as a team game
is most interesting and can be used in schools very
well. It is similar to baseball except that the ball
is kicked instead of batted.

The instructor’s attitude in presenting a game.
and his manner of voice and action during the

game, are strong influences on the way the players
will take to it.

NOTE; From the National Recreation Association may
be secured a bulletin entitled “W'ater Play Days,” which
contains directions for a number of games to be played
in the water, some interesting relays and races, and a
variety of amusing stunts and novelty features. A brief
bibliography of water sports is given.

Playground

By HELEN BOARD
Former Staff Member,

Public Recreation Commission
Cincinnati. Ohio

[TH THE playground season “just around
the corner,” play leaders are planning their

activities for this brief but intensive period.
The majority of leaders will include in their
program at least one play or pageant. Because of
the brevity of the playground season, the limited
facilities for play production and the irregular at-
tendance upon the playground, the choice of a
play must necessarily be carefully considered.
Obviously it should be simple enough to eliminate
the necessity for long rehearsals, expensive cos--
tumes and elaborate stage settings, yet at the same
time it must have sufEcient merit to be worthy
of production.

In choosing a play for the playground several
requisites have to be taken into account in addi-
tion to the value of the play. Among these are
the social and educational background of the
children in the cast; the length of time allotted
for preparation; the stage setting and properties
available, and the audience for which the play is
to be given. \Vith these essential points in mind,
the director is ready to give her attention to the
vast treasury of materials from which the selec-
tion may be made. And since the array is so great,
she may be somewhat bewildered as to where and
how to obtain the best‘ material. It is the purpose

172

 

A grassy plot on the playground will supply
a delightful setting for a children's play.

of this article, therefore, to assist the play leader
or director in overcoming this obstacle by pre-
senting a selective list of plays which have been
“weighed in the balance and not found wanting.”

Frequently the only “stage” available is the
natural setting of the playground—a grassy plot
or a shady knoll with a background of trees or
shrubbery. So let us consider first the plays best
suited to this condition.

A Few Proven Plays

Marjorie’s Garden, a delightful little flower
play, may be found in Five Plays and Five Pan-
tomimes by Sidney Baldwin, published by the
Penn Publishing Company, Philadelphia. Most
of the characters are flowers and the costumes
made from colored crepe paper are lovely. In
this same volume may be found The Enchanted
Gate, a story of romance and intrigue which will
delight boys as well as girls.

Flowers in the Palace Garden, another flower
play of beauty and charm, appears in Virginia
Qlcott’s volume, Everyday Plays for Home,
School and Settlement, published by Dodd, Mead

PLAYS AND PAGEANTS FOR THE PLAYGROUND

8: Company. This volume also contains The
Ruler of the Forest, an exciting adventure of In-
(lian life and The Troll of the M onntains, which
tells the story of a thrilling capture and rescue.
The two last named have a special appeal for
boys.

Constance D’Arcy Mackay is the author of a
charming garden play called The Enchanted Gar-
den, published by Samuel French, New York,
($.30), which can be highly recommended. In the
cast are three boys, seven girls and extras.

The Fairy IvVoods by Irene Jean Crandall, is a
fanciful fairy play in a prologue and two acts
which can be heartily endorsed. Replete with
dances and bright costumes, it makes an ideal
woodland entertainment or end of the season
pageant. If this is too elaborate try The Kingdom
of the Rose Queen by John Farrar, in which
Queen \Vild Rose makes a boy realize his past
unkindness to the wild flowers. There is only one
scene with a cast of thirty—flve or forty children.
(It may be found in libraries.)

And before we leave the subject of flower
plays, let us not fail to mention Prince Goldenrod
in Little Robin Stay-Behind by Katherine Lee
Bates, published by the W’omans Press, 600 Lex-
ington Avenue, New York. This humorous lit-
tle piece calls for nine principal characters—three
girls and six boys—with any number of singers,
dancers and courtiers. The scene is laid in the
throne room of Prince Goldenrod where an en-
tertaining family quarrel eventually has a very
amiable ending.

For a large cast of older
boys and girls nothing is more
appropriate than The Treas-
ure Chest by Josephine Thorp.
Old Tower Publishing Com-
pany, Lockport, Illinois. It re-
quires only a woodland setting
and the cast is flexible so that
any number may participate.
The thrilling conflict of a band
of pirates makes the play lively
and entertaining for boys, and
girls adore the rhythmic
dances of the waves and sun-
beams. .

The Dearest Wish, a story-
telling festival by Pauline Oak,
is also excellent for a large
cast. It may be secured from
the Drama Service, National

Recreation Association. Practical as well as
poetic are the brief plays found in Rose Fyle-
man’s volume, Eight Little Plays, published by
Doubleday, Doran & Company, New York. The
Fairy Riddle and The Fairy and the Doll are
especially well adapted for playground muse.
Nonghts and Crosses, which, by the way, is one
of the most novel plays in the volume, calls for
an indoor setting but can be adapted for outdoor
presentation.

When Pantomime Is Used

If it so happens that a playground is located in
the heart of the city where the noise of traffic
makes line reading impossible, the pantomime will
prove an excellent substitute for the spoken word.
Nora Archibald Smith has included four delight-
ful ones in her volume Plays, Pantomimes and
Tableaur, published by Dodd, Mead & Company,
New York—Goldilocks and the Three Bears, Red
Riding Hood, The Elves and the Shoemaker, and
Snow White and Rose Red. Complete directions
for costuming and producing accompany the pan-
tomimes.

The Gnomes Workshop by M. A. Jagendorf,
published by Brentano’s, New York, is an ideal
pantomime for children between the ages of eight
and twelve. The scene is indoors, but can easily

(Continued on page 202)

"King Alfred and the Cakes" was the charming
play given by the children of Salisbury, Conn.

 

173

ina

WHILE IT IS definitely within the province of

economists and financiers to evolve ways

and means for curing the depression, it is
just as definitely within the province of those en-
gaged in recreation to evolve ways and means of
providing healthful substitutes for those recrea-
tions which many persons miss because of changed
financial status. It was with this in mind that the
Recreation Division of the Essex County, New
Jersey, Park Commission determined to attempt
to revive an interest in canoeing and to broaden
an already wide interest in tennis as played on
clay courts.

Twenty years ago two of the parks under our
control boasted of flourishing canoe clubs, each
having its regatta and drawing large crowds; but
with the growing lure of the automobile the num—
ber of canoeists was gradually reduced until in-
stead of having one hundred and fifty canoes on
each lake there were fewer than seventy-five at
\Veequahic and less than twenty-five at Branch
Brook:

Until three years ago the boating and refectory
facilities at the lakes were not under the control
of the Commission but were leased to concession—
aires. However, with the taking over of these
leases on their expiration, the facilities offered
by the lakes became one of the phases of the work
assigned to the Recreation Division for develop-
ment. In lV‘leantimeOVerona Lake had been taken
over and the entire tract re-landscaped, so that
there were three park lakes instead of two where
lcanoes might be used.

174

 

By ERNEST BENATRE

Supervisor of Recreation
Essex County Park Commission

Canoeing Grows in Popularity

Starting the campaign for more canoeing was
not difficult" It involved inviting to an evening
meeting in the offices of the Commission canoeists
from each lake who came different nights. The
result was that canoe clubs were formed at the
meetings, temporary officersr—one a girl in two
of the three groups—being elected and plans were
discussed for regattas and carnivals. It was
pointed out that permits for the events would be
needed, that definite practice nights should be
chosen, and that no one might compete or practice
who could not satisfy the Police Department of
his or her ability to swim. Setting a definite date
for the swimming events, at which the Chief of
the Park Police Department was present, gave the
regattas such an impetus as perhaps nothing else
would have done.

Membership in the three clubs increased im-
mediately when we suggested that no one might
compete unless a member in good standing of the
club. Other boats were brought to the lakes with
the result that the popularity of canoeing was well
on the way to a revival, if one might judge by the
volume of inquiries regarding canoes for sale.

In order to open competition in the regattas to
as many as possible, two things were suggested to

CANOEING AND TENNIS IN A COUNTY PARK SYSTEM 175

the clubs—that three events for row boats be in-
cluded and that any novice resident in Essex
County be permitted to compete.

There was more work involved for the Recre-
ation Division than appears, for no member of
any of the clubs had had any experience with
athletic or aquatic contests, with the result that
all of the planning, the clerical work of handling
entries, the laying out of the course, the setting
of the buoys for starts and finish lines and the
actual officiating had to be taken care of. Our
own staff was able to handle the regattas, for the
playground instruction corps boasted some college
oarsmen and officials of experience; the engineer-
ing staff laid out the course on each lake, and the
carpenters and painters of the maintenance divi—
sion saved considerable money by making buoys
for the start and finish lines.

The buoys marking the finish line consisted of
two pieces of wood one inch thick and ten inches
square with a piece of cork from an old life pre-
server between. They were painted bright' red
and a hole was drilled in each for an American
flag. Buoys six inches square and painted white
with black numbers were used to mark the start-
ing lines. To hold them in place we used a screw
eye in the bottom of each from which was sus-
pended a rope with a sash weight anchor borrow-
ed from the fishing boats at each lake. \Ve also
discovered that a light and very satisfactory tilt—
ing pole could be made from a bamboo pole, a
plumber’s rubber plunger, a child's rubber gas
ball, a little burlap and a piece of chamois.

The \Veequahic Canoe Club varied its regatta
~ features with an exhibition of life saving by a
team from the Orange Y. M. C. A., the dock at
that lake lending itself admirably for such activity
from the viewpoint of the spectators. The other
two clubs held carnivals in addition to the regat—
tas. Here a good deal of ingenuity was displayed
in the decorating of the canoes.

At Branch Book first place went to a young
man who, with the aid of some cardboard and a
few water colors, transformed his canoe into a
very creditable likeness of a gondola and ar—
rayed himself as a gondolier. At Verona the
judges were somewhat put to it to decide be-
tween three of the canoes but finally awarded first,
second and third respectively to those represent-
ing a side wheeler the covered wagon, and the
“Fresh Air Taxicab.”

The boys at Branch Brook had such a good
time that they asked if they might “hold a trian—

gular regatta, inviting the other two clubs to com—
pete with them in September, and they requested
the assistance of the Recreation Division. This
competition was won by the Verona Club which
now has the first leg on a silver loving cup pre-
sented by the Commission. During the winter
each club plans to enlist the interest of many
prospective canoeists, and while we all hope that
the depression will be well behind us by next sum-
mer, we also hope that so healthful and inexpen-
sive a sport as canoeing may continue to thrive.

Developing Interest in Tennis

Tennis tournaments received their impetus
from two sources. The Secretary had delegated
one of the members of the Recreation Division to
represent the Commission, and incidentally Essex
County, on the Public Parks Committee of the
Eastern Lawn Tennis Association which was de—
sirous of having a good representation from New
Jersey in the Metropolitan Championships. F ur—
thermore, after three years’ experience our clay
courts players were getting to the point where
competition between parks would be desirable, and
with the five day week forced on many residents
of the county we felt.that ntennis offered a very
inexpensive way of using free time, the charge
for courts being only 10 cents per_hour per player.

Groups from each of the five parks where clay
courts are maintained were invited separately to
meet with a staff member of the Recreation Di-
vision. The result was that tennis clubs were
formed at each park and tournaments conducted
by the members during July for the purpose of
selecting a team of seven players—two men’s sin-
gles, one women’s singles, men’s doubles and
mixed doubles. It was planned that these teams
would engage in match play during August. Be—
fore the local tournaments were well under way,
however, the Kresge Department Store ofNew-
ark asked permission to sponsor the August
matches to the extent of furnishing the balls and
providing seven trophies for the winners. So en—
thusiastic did the store officials become that they
asked permission to hold a county-wide=t‘ourna—
ment in September not limited to public parks
players for which they furnished seven ,more
trophies. As an added feature fof the finals on
September 24th they arranged for an exhibition
match between Vincent Richards and Gregory
Mangin.

(Continued on page 202)

Tin Can Craft

on the
Playground

By CHARLES M. GRAVES

Birmingham, Alabama

1113 HANDCRAFT program on the playground
is often dichult because of the expense of

securing suitable material. There was a time
when wooden packing boxes were easily obtain-
able, but today only a small part of the goods re-
ceived in the neighborhood grocery comes in
wooden containers, and they are hard to get. Tin
cans are plentiful and cost nothing. They may be
used for many useful articles for the home, play—
ground and camp. There is a satisfaction to the
craftsman in the fact that he is using material
that is usually thrown away—making something
out of nothing.

It is very important that fresh, clean cans be
used. They should be washed soon after they are
opened and put in such a position to drain that all
the water will run out. Old, dirty, rusty cans
should not be used.

There should be a receptacle convenient for all
scrap tin. This should not be left lying around.
All jagged edges on any of the articles should be
immediately removed by the use of a file. After
one becomes accustomed to handling tin there will

be few accidents, but any cuts should be treated
immediately. '

The Tools

Tools should include a
pair of 8 inch duck bill tin
snips. With these snips a
reasonably good c u r v e ,
either right or left, can be
secured. This cannot be
done with the ordinary tin
snips which are used for

176

in Brooklyn.

Mr. Graves First became interested in tin
can craft two years ago when he served
as a play leader on the playgrounds con-
ducted by the Park and Recreation Board
of Birmingham, Alabama. As a student at
the National Recreation School last year
he had the opportunity of developing the
craft still further in connection with the

work he did at the Flatbush Boys' Club

 

Here, in illustration No. I, are to be seen some
of the articles with which the novice may begin.

cutting straight lines. A 12 inch pair of these
should, however, be in the kit. Other tools neces-
sary are a can opener which leaves a smooth top,
a spool of rosin or core solder, or if desired,
solder wire and soldering paste, a pair of pliers,
a pair of dividers, a rule, a small ball pene ham—
nier, a small wooden mallet, a small file, and a
punch made from a nail. A block of hard wood,
planed smooth about 1%” by 2” by 12”, is a
necessity. It is also important to have an alcohol
lamp which may be made from an ink bottle with
a wick pulled through a hole in the cork. It is a
good idea to use the barrel of a .32 cartridge to
line the hole.

A small variety of quick drying paints, such as '
four hour enamel, a brush or two, a little patience
and the application of a few simple decorative
designs, will work wonders with your finished
articles.

The Procedure

A tin cup is one of the simplest projects. (See
illustration No. 1.) Select
a can of the size desired. A
small pineapple can makes
a good size. The top edge
must be smooth. Cut from
another can a strip of tin
sufi‘icient for the handle.
For a can the size men—
tioned this would be about

1%” by 5”. To hem the

TIN CAN CRAFT ON THE PLAYGROUND 177

edges of the handle, hold this strip on the block
of hard wood so that 3/16 of an inch of one of
the long edges extends over the edge of the block.
With a mallet or hammer bend this 3/16 of an
inch strip down so as to make a double smooth
edge or hem. Repeat this operation on the other
edge and you have a strip with smoOth edges five
inches long with which to make the handle.

Using your fingers and the hammer handle',
shape this strip into a handle. It will look some—
thing like a question mark. The top and bottom
ends of the handle should now be so shaped as to
fit snugly against the outside of the CUp over the
seam. The handle can
be temporarily held in
place by a small wire
or string arOUnd the
handle and cup.

If you have a solder-
ing iron convenient and
know how to use it, the
rest is simple. But if
not, the soldering oper-
ation may be done in
the following w a y ,
which is the simplest
for the amateur. Cut
two pieces of self-flux-
ing solder about V2 inch
long (rosin core or acid
core solder). Flatten
the pieces of solder
with a hammer and
place one between the top
end of the handle and the
can. Now apply heat from
an alcohol lamp so that the
flame does not touch the solder and as soon as
the solder flows remove the heat. If the softest
solder is used, a candle, or even a match, will give
sufficient heat. If you do not succeed the first
time, clean all contact surfaces and try again.
Now remove the string or wire and you have a
very acceptable tin CUp.

This method of soldering is used in the making
of all the objects and is similar to the method
used by silversmiths.

Kitchen Utensils

By using a larger can and making a lip on the
edge opposite the handle, a utility kitchen CUp can
be made. This lip, when cut out, resembles a new
moon. (See illustration No. I.)

 

Illustration No. 2 is a happy demonstration
ol: the attractivness ol: the candle holders
which can be evolved From useless tin cans.

A very acceptable and useful scoop can be
made by cutting away one side of the can. It is
preferable to cut away the side which is seamed,
soldering a handle on the bottom or low side. A
scoop for sugar or flour is best made from a can
with a smooth bottom, such as a milk can.

A biscuit or cookie cutter can be made any de-
sired shape by cutting a long strip of tin one inch
wide and shaping it as desired, soldering the ends
together and putting a handle across the top. A
better cutter can be made by hemming the top
edge.

A toy bucket can be made by soldering half a
gem clip, bent to re-_
semble a hat in profile,
on the sides of a No.
2% can and shaping a
handle to fit these loops.
Make the handle of
coat hanger wire. A
shovel to go with this
bucket can easily be
made by shaping ‘ it
from a piece of tin
2%”  8”.

A toy saucepan can
be made by shaping a
straight handle, in the
same way as the handle
to the cup already 'de-
scribed, and soldering
it to the side of a potted
ham can or other small
can. A broiler can be made
from two sardine cans with
wire handles soldered on
each end, so that the han-
dles of the top fit inside the handles of the bot—
tom can.

A round table may be made by soldering a 2
inch tape reel to the Under side of a coffee can
top. The chair is made of a flat piece in the same
way as one is cut out of cardboard.

To make a toy wash-board, cut a piece of tin
4” wide by 12” long. Lay this flat on the table
and hold the block of wood firmly across it 2
inches from one end. Bend the tin 1113 against
it so that it makes a right angle to the balance of
the piece. Turn the tin over and about ya inch
from this bend on the long part of the tin, make
another in the opposite direction. Now turn the
tin over again and with the block holding it down,
about % of an inch, from the last bend make

178 TIN CAN CRAFT ON THE PLAYGROUND

In illustration No. 3
areshownsomeolthe
novel and useful art-
icles so easily made.

another and so on
reversing the tin
each time before
making a b e n d .
\Vith a little care
you will have a
v e r y acceptable
corrugated base for
a wash—board. Then
round the top cor-
ners. Now cut a
strip of tin y; inch
wide and long
enough to go along two sides and the top. Shape
this to fit the sides of the board, tie this strip to
the board, wire or string, and solder in several
spots.

More Decorative Articles

A candle holder can be made by cutting away
one side of a can and soldering a handle on the
back of the high side and a tin cylinder in the
bottom to hold the candle. (See illustration No.
2.) Another type of candlestick can be made
from the top of a coffee can with a discarded
Handy tape reel or made up cylinder of tin to
hold the candle. (See illustration No. 3.) A
kitchen or camp candle holder may :be evolved
from a cocoa can or other oblong can that will
hang against the wall.

An easel to hold photographs or pictures may
be made by cutting in a single piece an isosceles
triangle of 4%” sides with a rectangular base
6%” long and 1” high. Bend this piece along

the perpendicular of the triangle to an angle of-

about 60 degrees. The two pieces which project
from each side of the base form the offsets which
hold the picture. A miniature easel makes an at-
tractive place card holder.

An ash tray and match box holder can be made
from the top of a
coHee can as shown
in illustration No.
3. The memo card I
or calendar holder
shown here is made
to fit a 3” by 5”

  

a. ~ “3
.3
{I _

)—

 

  

card and requires
a piece of material
7%” by 5V3”- A
little study of the
picture will show
how it is made. It
should be made
about ya inch deep
with a hole at the
top to hang it on
the wall. It requires
no soldering.

Th e sunflower,
the club and the
spade shown in the
final illustration
may be used as
place card holders
and also as miniature candle holders. In the cen-
ter of each is a small cylinder about %, inch high,
just the right diameter to hold a small birthday
candle. This is made from a strip of tin g4 of an
inch long by M; of an inch wide rolled into a
cylinder and soldered to the base. Many varia-
tions may be worked out.

A desk blotter may be made by cutting a piece
of tin 3%” by 5" for the top, and 273" by 5%”
for the bottom. The top piece should have its
long edges folded back, as is done with the handle
of the cup. The ends should have 3/16 of an
inch bent to make an angle of about 60 degrees
with the body of the top, and the top itself should
be slightly arched. A blotter should be cut the
same size as the bottom piece which should be
shaped to an even curve and titted under the ends

of the top piece.

Decorating Articles

A very effective way of decorating a tin article
such as a blotter pad or desk blotter corners is to
cut from thin copper an initial, a monogram or
other design, and solder this to the object. After
the design has been satisfactorily cut out with
snips or coping saw and I‘ile, sandpaper the side

(Cavitinued on page 203)

   

Effective holders for
place cards and minia-
ture candle holders as
well are possibilities.

How to Produce a Play

By JACK STUART KNAPP

National Recreation Association

The casting of a play is an
art requiring great diplom-
acy on the part of directors.

xPERTNEss in casting is an invaluable asset to
E the director. Some directors seem to have
an instinct for casting, others always have
difficulty. The amateur director must not only
understand thoroughly the characterizations in the
play and the talent on hand. He must be a diplo-
mat as well. Mistakes in casting or, worse, unfair
casting, will often arouse a storm of resentment
and criticism. In some groups even absolutely fair
casting will arouse criticism at first, but if the di—
rector is always fair, this criticism quickly dies.

Directors of some groups, childrens especially,
have another problem. Should the audience see a
good characterization by an actor equipped to
handle the part, or are the benefits received by an
actor in playing a part which he is not naturally
equipped to play, but which will help him in the
development of his own personality or character,
of more importance ? Which is to be given more
consideration, the audience or the actor? \Vith
children’s groups, and specialized adult groups, it
should often be the latter.

The too quiet, timid, mouse-like little girl by
being cast in a lively, laughing, jolly part, may
develop a little of the vivaciousness she needs in
every day life, and the boisterous, rough. unman-
nerly little boy may acquire some of the graces
and knowledge of courtesy he needs by playing
the part of the gentle prince. In the usual adult
production, however, the audience must be con—
sidered, and parts are usually given to those who,
in the opinion of the director or casting committee,
are best fitted to play them.

The casting is done by the director or by a small
committee, of which the director is a member, and
the determining factor in selecting the cast.

In this article the important subiect
of casting a play is considered, and
suggestions are offered regarding the
qualifications which the prospective
actor should have and the best meth-
ods to use in giving the applicant a
chance to show his ability.

An article byMr. Knapp on Organizing
the Production will follow next month.

 

The “try out” method is the usual and perhaps
the best method of casting. The try out conducted
by some groups, however, means very little. Ap-
plicants are handed a book they’ve never seen
before and are told “stand there and read this.”
Now it is sad but true that about ninety-five
pe0ple out of one hundred can not read out loud.
Even for those who can read, it is extremely dif-
ficult to put expression or characterization into
something they have never read before. \Vhen
the try out is finished, about all the director
usually knows is that the people who have tried
out want to be in the play, and that some people
read better than others. This does not mean at
all that they can act any better than the ones who
read poorly.

If a try out is to mean something, the appli—
cants should be given a few speeches of the play
to memorize a few days before the try out date.
The selections to be memorized can be mimeo-
graphed; or printed in the local newspaper, if it
has an obliging editor. Poor readers may be ex-
cellent actors after they have memorized their
lines.

Asra precaution against. 111istakes, the director
should announce that the first casting of the play
is merely temporary. Actors may be requested to
exchange parts, or even to drop out.of the cast, if
they find that they are not equipped to handle the
part with credit to themselves and the production.
After one or two rehearsals the permanent cast
should be announced. ‘ _

While each actor is trying out, the director, or
casting committee, is considering certain qualities
and qualifications. The first of these is not acting

(Continued on page 203)
179

 

Courtesy U. 5. Forest Service

Photo by Leslie R. Corbett

National Forest Playgrounds

of the
Pacific Northwest

By MARIE F. HEISLEY

Forest Service
United States Department of Agriculture

HE VAST forests of Douglas fir, spruce, hern-
lock, pine, cedar, and other conifers that ex-
tend almost unbroken over the mountain
ranges of the Pacific Northwest offer outstanding
opportunities for outdoor recreation. Fortunately,
Uncle Sam has created in this region some of the
very finest of his National Forests.
The National Forests of the Pacific Northwest,
like all others, were created for the conservation

180

A glimpse of the joys which
await those fortunate enough
to visit the great Northwest

and development of the forest values 1n the pub-
lic interest. Of vital concern, ot course, 15 tne
growing of timber and the protection of water-
sheds. This the forests do to a remarkable degree,
for they contain some of the most magnificent
stands of softwood timber in the world and their
forest-covered mountains protect the headwaters
of many streams vital to the welfare of the region.
But recreational opportunity is also recognized as
a forest resource of outstanding value, and recre-
ation is given an important place in the adminis-
trative program of the National Forests.

The Pacific Northwest’s National Forests are
among the Nation’s finest recreation grounds.
They have a wealth of splendid scenery. Their

NATIONAL FOREST PLAYGROUNDS 181

woods, rivers, lakes, alpine meadows, snow fields,
and lofty peaks hold invitations to all lovers of
the great outdoors. Fish in the streams and lakes
and big game in the back country lure the fisher-
man and hunter. Snow-clad peaks and glaciers at
the top of the divides challenge the hardiest
mountain climber or winter sports enthusiast. The
tourist, the camper, the hiker, and nature lover
will find his heart’s delight in these vacation
lands.

Recreation, therefore, forms one of the major
uses of the nineteen National Forests of VVash-
ington and Oregon. These Forests are visited by
thousands of pleasure seekers every year. To the
extent that‘ available funds permit, the United
States Forest Service each year improves recre—
ational facilities. The mileage of roads and trails
is increased, opening up new areas to the traveler.
Improvements are made upon camp grounds and
other recreation areas.

The Forest Service has already established 876
free public camp grounds on the National Forests
of the Pacific Northwest. These camp grounds
are gradually being provided with the facilities
necessary to their proper management and also
with conveniences. for the camper or picnicker,
such as stoves and fireplaces, toilets and garbage
pits, and information booths. It is estimated that
during the summer season these national forest
public camp grounds are
used daily by more than
51,000 persons. Establish—
ment of private camps,
hotels, resorts and summer
homes is also allowed in cer—
tain designated areas within
the National Forests, under
special permit from the .For-
est Service.

Primitive Areas

For the furtherance of
public education and recrea—
tion the Forest Service is
establishing within National
Forests a series of repre—
sentative areas known as
Primitive Areas. In these
areas primitive conditions of
environment, transportation,
habitation and subsistence are
as far as possible maintained.
No occupancy under permit

 

In Primitive Areas of the National
Forests old arts are practised.

for summer home, resort, camp, or the like, is al~
lowed, and no improvements other than those
necessary to the adequate protection of the area
from fire will be made. Thus is being preserved
for the Nation representative areas of wild coun-
try in the natural state, free from' exploitation
and unmodified by the works of man. True lovers
of the wilderness can find in the Primitive Areas
the opportunity to “rough it” in primitive fashion,
and to enjoy nature unspoiled. The areas are
open to recreationists, but only those who love
living in the out-of—doors and have the hardihood
to subsist under primitive conditions should at-
tempt to explore them. Over fifty Primitive
Areas have been established on National Forests,
with seven in the Pacific Northwest. '

Recreation Areas

Since most of the mountainous section of
\Vashington and Oregon are included within Na—
tional Forests, many of the outstanding recrea—
tion areas of the region are publicly owned. The
Forest Service, therefore, has designated a num-
ber of recreation areas within the National For-
ests, where recreation is the primary concern in
administration. One of the most popular of these
is the "Heather Meadows Recreation Area,” in
the Mt. Baker National Forest, \Vashington.
Here, in a setting of unexcelled scenery in the
shadow of snow-crowned Mt.
Baker and Mt. Shuksan, the
famous Mt. Baker Lodge is
maintained under a special
use permit. A free public
campground also is main-
tained, and a forest ranger
stationed at the area is ready
to give information and ad-
vice to recreationists. Dur—
ing the summer season he
delivers nightly illustrated
lectures on the flora and
fauna of the area.

Another section of excep-
tional interest from a recrea-
tional standpoint is the Olym-
pic Peninsula in northwest-
crn W’ashington. This is a
region of heavy precipitation
a n d remarkable fo r e s t
growth. The peninsula con-
tains an extensive alpine area
in the Olympic Mountain

182 NATIONAL FOREST PLAYGROUNDS

Range, a splendid mountain mass with impressive
peaks rising to an elevation of 8,250 feet, deep
gorges, extensive snow nelds and numerous glac-
iers, and other features characteristic of the best
mountain scenery of the \Vest. It is one of the
last great wilderness areas in the United States
Practically all of the Olympic Mountain Range is
included within the bonndaries- of the Olympic
National Forest which covers almost one and a
half million acres. From the heart of the Forest
rises Mt. Olympus, the highest point of the
Range. This peak and adjacent summits have
been set aside as the Mt. Olympus National Mon-
ument because they contain certain featUres of
unusUal scientific interest, and because the region
has from time immemorial formed the breeding
grOUnds and summer range of the rare Olympic,
or Roosevelt, elk, a native species found nowhere
else. The National Monument covers approxi-
mately 330,000 acres and includes the highest and
roughest snow-capped peaks, while an adjoining
portion of the Forest has been set aside as a rec-
reation area, for which public recreation is con-
sidered the highest use. A Primitive Area also
has been designated in this region.

Oregon Caves, in the Siskiyou National Forest
in Southern Oregon, have been set aside as a Na-
tional Monument. The Caves are located in Cave
Mountain, a peak of limestone foundation, 6,000
feet high, with their main entrances at 4,000 feet.
Many miles of galleries, rooms, and passageways,
which lead in all directions, have already been ex-
plored, and there are probably many more miles
in the unexplored portions of the mountain. The
Forest Service regulates the use and protection of
the caves and has permitted the building of an
attractive chalet at their entrance. A public camp—
ground also is maintained. Improvements for the
accommodation of visitors are being made each

year.

Many mountain peaks within the National For-
ests of \Vashington and Oregon attract the recre-
ationist. Best known, perhaps, is Mt. Hood. This
snow-crowned king of .the Columbia River coun-
try in Oregon.is located on the National Forest
to which it gives its name. The mountain and
some 100,000 acres of surrounding territory in
the Forest, including that portion adjacent to the
Columbia River, have been designated by the For-
est Service as a recreation area, for the “use and
enjoyment of.the general public for recreational
purposes coordinately with the purpose for which
the Mt. Hood National 'FOrest was established.”

Although the region is the mecca for all classes
of recreationists, it is especially popular with
mountain climbers. Mt. Hood is climbed annu-
ally by a great many people, mountain climbing
clubs frequently making the ascent with parties
numbering a hundred or more. The ascent from
the north side of the mountain will appeal to
most lovers of mountain climbing, for, while no
exceptional difhculties will be met, the climb is
not an easy one. The south side climb is more
gradual. Inexperienced persons, however, should
not attempt an ascent of either side of Mt. Hood
without a guide. In winter the climb is extremely
hazardous and should be tried only by experi-
enced mountain climbers and then only with
guides. The Mount Hood region is beginning to
be used extensively for all kinds of winter sports.

The National Forests of the Pacific Northwest
are studded with numerous lakes, most of which
are beautifully situated and attractive to recrea-
tionists. One of the most popular is Lake Che-
lan, in the Chelan National Forest, \Vashington,
one of the most beautiful mountain regions in the
United States. The lake extends for 50 miles
through the heart of the east slope of the Cascade
Range and is fed by numerous streams which de-
scend to it through deep canyons and fall in num—
erous cascades. The Lake Chelan region is also
joy to the mountain climber, including as it does
many glaciers, rugged peaks that have seldom, if
ever, been scaled, mountain meadows, gorges,
cataracts, and small lakes nested among the peaks.
It is also popular with other classes of pleasure
seekers, for the nshing is excellent, there are ac-
commodations for persons who do not wish to
“camp out,” and many sandy beaches. During
the sUmmer season numbers of small boats and
yachts dot Lake Chelan. The whole Chelan For-
est offers splendid opportunities for hunting, nsh-
ing, and camping, and other forms of outdoor

recreation.

Some Forestry Activities for
Recreation Centers

Uncle Sam's Forest Rangers. \Vhy not have a
“Jim and Jerry” party if you have a radio at your
center? As you probably know, Forest Rangers
Jim Robbins and Jerry Quick are the principal
characters in the series of educational broadcasts
entitled, “Uncle Sam’s Forest Rangers,” now be-
ing heard weekly over NBC networks. The broad-
casts are prepared by Charles E. Randall of the

( C outide on page 204)

Popularizing
the
Swimming
Badge Tests

Why not have some such
demonstration as this

in your summer program?

11E. SWIMMING BADGE TESTS developed for
T the National Recreation Association by a

group of distinguished physical educators,
swimming experts and recreation leaders, have
been so well received it is clear that given ade-
quate publicity they will be extremely useful in
stimulating interest in swimming and other
aquatic skills.

As a means of drawing attention to the tests it
has been suggested that early in the swimming
season this year special events could be held at
swimming pools or beaches for the purpose of
having well known swimmers give a demonstra-
tion of the tests. Probably such swimmers will
prefer to demonstrate the third and most difhcult
test. In this case unusually qualified boy or girl
swimmers could demonstrate the first and second
tests. A feature of the event might well be the
presentation of emblems and certificates by the
mayor or some other public official.

The Swimming Badge Test Committee does not
permit emblems to be issued until the person con-
ducting the tests has certified those who have
qualified for badges. Wherever possible, however,
the Committee will be glad to arrange for a rep-
resentative to be present at special demonstrations
of the tests, in order that the emblems may be
awarded as a part of the program. Participation
on such occasions should be limited to a few
selected swimmers of exceptional ability.

It is recommended that such a demonstration
be held early in the season in order to reap the

 

.__- _ J

The swimming badge tests will prove a pop-
ular addition to the summer camp program.

full advantage of stimulating attendance at the

'swimming pools and progress in the sport. An

expert swimmer could easily run through the
third test in half an hour. Possibly the three tests

could be run off simultaneously, alternating the
events in the different tests.

Scope of the Tests

For the benefit of those unfamiliar with the
tests, it may be said that they embrace swimming
stated distances, recovering objects by surface
dives, swimming for time, diving, floating, tread-
ing and demonstrating strokes. There are no
height, weight or age limits specified. The same
tests are used for both boys and girls with the
exception that girls are permitted a longer time in
swimming events for speed. Any responsible per-
son, familiar with swimming, may give the tests.
The National Recreation Association furnishes
certificates and emblems which may be sewed on
the sweater or swimming suit on receipt of cer-
tification by examiners that the tests have been
successfully completed. Many thousands of men,
women and children have now taken the tests.

Tests Widely Used and Approved

Captain Charles B. Scully, Director of the Life
Saving Service for the American Red Cross in
Greater New York, says of the tests: “I have

(Confirmed on page 205)
183

Hidden \X/ealth Revealed by Bankers

By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG

National Recreation Association

Some delightful revela-
tions about bonkers and
"captains of industry!"

ILL WONDERS never cease? Here we are
w adjusting ourselves with amazing flexibil-

ity to a rapid tire of wonders, of great new
national projects and controls, when along come
some remarkable and delightful revelations about
certain very successful bankers. They are not the
practical, hard—headed men we thought bankers
were. They are really musicians! Think of it!
The cynical might say, “No wonder we have——
or have had—a depression!” But these bankers
are among the most reputable and successful be-
longing to the great tradition of American busi-
ness. The revelation came principally through the
National Broadcasting Company’s series entitled
“Music Is My Hobby,” in which a number of
these men, some manufacturers, a lawyer, an elec-
trical engineer and men of other professions, each
gave a musical performance—some of them in
groups—which, though not up to Kreisler, Pader-
ewski or Tibbett, was miles ahead of the genera]
run of commercially sponsored programs that the
really hard—headed business men choose.

Of course, many of us have for a long time
known this about Some bankers, lawyers and
prominent people of other professions. It was a
very successful young lawyer who said after an
all-too—short three hours of string quartet playing,
“It’s a great pity we ‘can’t have more time for
these really important things.” But when the
musical fervor and skill of these men are aired
for a few minutes before the millions of listeners-
in, we have a first—class revelation and one that
should be a strong influence for interesting more
peOple in making music a hobby.

184

"Every hour of the human life freed
from enforced toil by the machine is
a potential treasure for the race. To
seize upon these new opportunities
and convert them into the creative

ioys of the mind, body and spirit they
might be--what else can we learn that
is half so vital to ourselves, to society!"

—®orothy CanfieId Fisher in The Li-
brary journal, May l5, I933

 

This is not all. The Secretary of the Treasury,
chief director over the destiny of our banks and
great industries, is also a musician! \Vhen a man
in his position is given an honorary degree, one
would expect it to be an LL.D., but no: Syracuse
University, though praising him as a banker and
a Secretary of the Treasury, gave him a Mus. D.
instead. Mr. \Voodin, long a lover and player of
music, lately become a distinguished composer, is
now a Doctor of Music.

\Ve are very much interested in what Dr.
\Voodin said on that occasion, as it was reported
in the New York Herald Tribune. “Did you ever
walk by a cemetery at night when a boy?” he
asked. “You know you couldn’t help whistling
to assure yourself everything was all right.
\Vhistling kept your spirits up. Just now music
and music study are practical needs of every man.
Precisely as the boy whistles instinctively to keep
up his courage, so are we all crying for some-
thing to bring about confidence and to displace the
absurd hysteria of fear which in the last few
years has made men and women avoid the great
human responsibilities which these dynamic times
demand. Vibrations of fine music put a myster-
ious initiative, resolution and courage into the
normal individual.”

President Roosevelt had something to say as
to this also. “As I was leaving the President’s
room,” reported Dr. \Voodin, “he said: ‘Will,
ybu can tell them for me that when I get in
trouble I always whistle a tune.’ ”

\Vhen one remembers the millions of unem-
ployed and their dependents, and the many other

HIDDEN WEALTH REVEALED BY BANKERS 185

people who are painfully insecure, these state-
ments are forcible enough. But it is not only be—
cause it can inspire courage that music is a prac-
tical need or a hobby. Dr. Woodin went straight
up the recreation leader’s alley when he said: “It
has been my experience in business life that after
a very strenuous day-—beautiful music. The effect
can be described only as a kind of psychological
bath. I feel cleansed mentally, and my mind is
enormously rested.” And he might have, and
perhaps did, go on to say that above all, music
well chosen and used for its own sweet sake, is as
rich a means of happiness as exists in the world,
and yet it can be and should be within the reach
of everyone, no matter how poor he or she
may be.

What Recreation Executives Can Do

These revelations of recreational musical in—
terests should be very stimulating. \Vith a few
glowing exceptions the men and women in charge
of public recreation in our communities have
hardly commenced to realize the full human value
of the musical resources of people. Many have
neglected them entirely. This has usually been
because of modesty due to lack of musical skill
on the part of the recreation executive; and now
the lack may be due also to what seem insufhcient
funds and staff workers amidst increased de—
mands for service of other kinds. But not enough
has been made of the executive’s power of sug-
gestion and organization. In many a community
he could be more effective than any local musician
could be in bringing together representative peo-
ple who are interested in music and who are cap—
able of planning and carrying out valuable musi-
cal developments in the community. If this group,
which could be known as the civic music com—
mittee, continued to need and desire his vision
and sustaining force he might act as its secretary
or merely as one *of its members. And he could
hardly devote to better advantage what little time
he would have to give for
the purpose. Singing and
the provision of concerts
can be among the least ex—
pensive of all recreational
activities, and yet they can
enlist large numbers of peo-
ple. Maintenance of an or-
chestra, band or smaller in-
strumental groups, can also

be inexpensive if the play— journal, May I5.

"The organization, training and stimulation
of local leadership in the fields of music,
of dramatics, of forensics, of arts and crafts,
are a matter of the profoundest spiritual
and social concern to the commonwealth.
More and more people are realizing that The reallv music-loving
the real springs of human happiness are i
found not in material possessions gained,
but in the social and spiritual values enioy-

ed."—,/Imold gentle” Hall in The Library I

ers own the instruments and there .is music to be
loaned, as there is in some places. Recreation
executives who are not especially trained in music
in Irvington and Bloomfield, New Jersey, in
Reading and York, Pennsylvania, in Lansing,
Cleveland, Chicago and elsewhere, are proving
the force of good recreational leadership even in
a field in which they are not at all expert. Inci-
dentally, no other sort of activity can win more
sympathetic interest in the community’s recrea-
tion program as a whole.

The truth is that in every city and town there
are people who know that they find great pleasure
in singing, playing or listening to music, and a
great many others who have not yet realized how
rich they are in this respect. For some of the peo-
ple in these two groups music is, or could readily
be, a hobby to be ridden into the happy hills of
excellence; and for many others it can be a fre-
quent means of thorough-going recreation even
on the plains, so to speak.

\Ve want to suggest one way of giving attrac-
tive opportunity to both the hobby riders and the
mere strollers in music. It has been tried re-
cently in Buffalo, Scranton and Reading. In each
of these three cities there have been free evenings
of music that have been at least as inspiring
as Dr. \Voodin would have music be for every-
one these days. The evening is divided between
brief performances by trained groups and gen-
eral singing by the audience, all taking place in a
school building, a church or some other center
for the neighborhood or community. The special
groups may be any of the following: i

A church choir or a combination of choirs.

A secular chorus or small vocal group.

Foreign language folk singers, players or danc-
ers'— or all three sorts-—preferably in native
costumes.

A school singing, playing or dancing group.

A community or neighborhood band, orchestra

or chamber music group.
A dramatic group.

Songs for General Smglng

The general 5 i n g i n g
should be mainly or en-
tirely of good, lasting songs.

and s o c i a l l y competent
leader has no need to use
any other sort. The fol—
lowing list shows the great

186 HIDDEN WEALTH REVEALED BY BANKERS

variety of feelings, ideas and musical styles exist-

ing among such songs:

Home on the Range.

*Come to the Fair.

*Water Boy
Donkey Riding
Away for Rio.

*My Hero
The Keel Row.

Old Folks At Home.
O Susanna.
Other Stephen Foster Songs.

*On the Road to Mandalay.
Funiculi, Funicula (A Merry Life).
Reuben and Rachel (sung as a round).
Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes.
Morning Comes Early.

Billy Boy.

Londonderry Air.

Prayer of Thanksgiving.
Alouette.

O Sole Mio (My Sunshine).

*The Bells of St. Mary’s.

The Keeper.

Swing Low. Sweet Chariot.
Annie Laurie.

Alleluia.

Little David, Play on Yo’ Harp.
On, Roll On, My Ball I Roll On.
Juanita.

Rosa.

Carry Me Back to Old Virginny.
Who Did?

Believe Me, If All Those Endea’ring Young Charms.

*Roamin’ in the Gloamin’.

Volga Boatmen’s Song.

*When Good Fellows Get Together.
Dixie
Were You There?

Tiritomba.

Loch Lomond.

Jacob’s Ladder.

Dogie Song.

Auld Lang Syne.

Cape Cod Chantey.
John Peel.

O No, John

All Through the Night.
Santa Lucia.
Tit—Willow (from “The Mikado”).
Down in the Valley.
Are You Sleeping?
Three Blind Mice.
Other Rounds.
A-roving.

Good-Night, Ladies.
America, the Beautiful.

It may be objected at once that many of these
songs are not generally familiar. But each one
has been proved successful and very easily learned
by all sorts of groups. The learning of songs as
simple and varied as these is itself very enjoyable,
and it can keep a group coming again and again
to sing. Without some such sort of progress in
the singing, most people are soon weary of com-
ing. There is not space here to say where and at
what cost the music of each song can be obtained.
The words of most of them are in the Commun¢_
ity Songs leaflet issued by the National Recrea-.

* Published separately in sheet music.

tion Association, and the sources of the music are
indicated therein. Preparations are now being
made to publish the music of the less familiar
songs in a new, inexpensive book.

The singing should appeal as much as possible
to the really musical natures of people. The first
requisite is wholeheartedness, the play spirit, the
generous giving of the whole self to the singing;
the songs must therefore appeal to spontaneous
interests in the pe0ple. There can be no forcing
of attention. But every person with any feelings
and brains at all has a wider range of interest
than is commonly appealed to in community sing-
ing. The above list includes songs of the sea,
mountain, field and sky, of love, comradeship,
reverence, humor, courage, of large—motioned
work, hunting, hiking, paddling and dancing, of
love of home and country, and all of them full of
vitality and enthusiasm. Such is life as we like to
live it! The best fun of all is when the singing
is, even if only for a moment, beautiful; when
the group have together “struck twelve.” In no
other art or craft can the thrill of beauty be so
easily and fully gained, even by unskilled people.
The song leader should, of COUrse, be very fa-
miliar with each song, and be possessed of other
good traits and abilities. An institute in leader
training can do wonders.

The special groups that are to perform without
charge at these gatherings may be drawn not only
from the churches, schools and the community at
large, but also from industrial and commercial
establishments, clubs, settlements, community
centers, evening schools and even from homes.
They may be already known to the person or per-
sons charged with securing them, or they may be
discovered through a general appeal or a simple
kind of survey. A survey could be made primarily
in order to publish to the community, through
newspapers or bulletin boards, a list of the groups
in which new members would be welcome, and
information as to where and when each group re-
hearses and what its entrance requirements are.
In the process of this survey each group should
be heard, even if only as a courtesy, by someone
capable of judging, incidentally, as to whether it
performs well enough to appear in one of the
“evenings of music.”

\Vhile these groups are being generous in giv-
ing their services, many of them will be much
benefited by the incentive of having a good audi-
ence. Some groups now only half-hearted might

(Continued on page 20.5)

A Progressive Contest Party

Compiled by ROBERT K. MURRAY

Nation al Recreation Association

HIS PARTY is planned for sixty players. There
T are fifteen games so that four individuals

will play together at one time. The equip-
ment for the games is placed around the room
or in adjoining rooms in such a way that players
can progress in order without difficulty or con-
fusion. Three minutes are allotted for each game,
with a one-minute interval between games to al-
low the players to add up their scores, proceed
to the next activity and introduce themselves to
the people with whom they are to play. In pro-
gressing, two of the players in each group move
forward to the game of the next higher number,
the other half to the game of the next lower
number. For-example, two of the people playing
the fourth game move to the fifth, the other two
to the third. If the entire grOUp should progress
in the same direction, each person would play
Only with the three other people with whom he
started. This would certainly not result in the
desired sociability. In the system suggested here,
each person will play with half the people present
by the time all the games have been played. To
facilitate the mechanics. of progression, score
cards may be made of two colors, pink for those
going to the games of the next higher number,
blue for those who are to proceed always to the
game of the next lower number.

The Procedure

As the players arrive,
they are given their score
cards containing the num-
bers of the games to be
played and a space for the
score made in each game.
The cards should also have
a place for the name of the
contestant and the number
of the game at which he is

At iust this time when all of us are seeking
the greotest amount of enioyment with the
leost possible expenditure of money, the
utilization of materials in our homes is a
consideration. In the program offered here
ideas ore suggested for making a number
of simple games from materials to be found
about the home, and for incorporating them
into a progressive contest party which will
entertain a large group of people in ap-
proximately any type of space.

When funds for game supplies are
low,'iust look around the kitchen
and in the family sewing basket!

to start. The progression the player is to make,
whether up or down, is indicated, of course, by
the color. At a signal, each player goes to his
first game. Typewritten instructions for each of
the games are given on the piece of cardboard
placed conspicuously with the equipment for each
game. This eliminates the necessity for explain-
ing all the games before the party starts or ex-
plaining the games to each group before they be-
gin. A second signal starts the play. The players
try to make as many points as possible during the
three minutes allotted each game. If necessary,
the game is played over and over. At the end of
this period, the signal is given and the players
add up their scores and progress in the direction
indicated on their card. This continues until each
of the players present has played all of the games.
At the close of the playing period scores are
added and a prize awarded to the young man and

the young women scoring the highest number of
points.

Suggested Activities

The following games may be made from ma-
terials found around the house:

Games of Ring Toss
(a) In the bottom of a cardboard carton stick
four or five clothesPins. From a distance of 10
feet try to ring these
Clothespins with fruit jar

r u b b e r s . Twenty-five
points are given for each
ringer.

(b) Coil a piece of old
rubber hose about 14 inches
long into a ring and tape
the two ends securely. Turn
a chair on its back with
legs pointing toward the

187

188 A PROGRESSIVE CONTEST PARTY

m

v
A v

‘1’ lo

No.l No. 2.

players. From a distance of I 5 feet the players
toss the ring over the legs of the chair. Twenty—
five points are given for each ringer.

Dish Roll Games

For this game use anything circular except a
ball—Jids of pans, round hot pads used on the
table for hot dishes, or caster cups in which the
legs of tables are set. The object of the game is
to roll these disks into a box which'has been
slotted to allow the passage of the rolling disks.
If hot plate pads or pan covers are used, the roll-
ing line should be 6 feet from the box. Caster
cups being bevelled will not roll straight, and for
this reason should be rolled from a distance of
not more than 3% or 4 feet. Players must roll,
not throw the disks into the box.

Ball Bouncing Games
While most people can toss an article into a

receptacle, to bounce it in is an entirely different
matter. Several different types of balls and re-
ceptacles may be used in this activity.

(a) A child’s rubber ball may be bounced from
a distance of 4 feet into a waste basket placed on
_ a chair.

(1)) Three small jack balls may be bounced
from a distance of 3 feet into a muffin pan. The
six cups in the pan should be numbered to indi-
cate the scores—50, 25, 15, IO, 5, and I.

(c) From a distance of 4 feet a jack ball may
be bounced into an open upright umbrella. Twen—
ty-five points will be scored each time the ball re-
mains inside the umbrella. The ball will usually

strike on the side of the umbrella and continue '

rolling out the other side.

(d) A tennis ball may be bounced from a dis-
tance of 5 feet into an umbrella stand.

Games Involving Rolling or Tossing
(a) From a distance of 12 to 15 feet roll three

balls of different degrees of resiliency in such a
way as to make them stop in a barrel hoop placed

 

on the floor. Twenty-five points are scored for
each successful attempt.

(1)) Roll either hard boiled eggs or wooden
darning eggs across the table so that they will
stop within a cardboard ring having a diameter of
not less than 6 inches.

(c) Using a calendar with relatively large
numbers on it, toss three milk bottle tops from a
distance of 8 feet so that they will rest on the
numbers of the calendar. If the disk touches two
of the numbers, the larger number may be taken

in scoring.

Ten Pins

An excellent game of small ten pins may be
played by substituting golf tees for the ten pins,
setting them up in triangular form exactly as in
a large game of ten pins. From a distance of 8
inches four small buttons are snapped as in tid-
dle-de-winks in an effort to knock down as many
of the golf tees as possible. Twenty -five points
are scored for each tee knocked down.

Shufer Board

For a different game of shuffle board draw a
diagram on the floor 5 feet long and 3 feet wide.
(See diagram No. 1). Equipment consists of a
broom handle and four hot plates. From a dis-
tance of 12 to 15 feet shove the hot plates with
the broom handle one at a time into the scoring
area. The largest number each plate touches is
the one counted in scoring.

A small game of shuffle board may be played
by using checkers instead of hot plates. Draw on
a bridge table a triangular diagram. (See diagram
No. 2.) Snap the checkers with the thumb and
first finger, sliding them across the table into the
scoring area.

Quoits
A simple game of quoits may be played by us-

ing rubber heels or flat rubber disks. Draw three ‘
concentric circles numbering them as in diagram

( Continued on page 205)

Nature
Activities
at a

Boys’ Camp

N A PENINSULA extending
0 into the east side of the
Hudson River, a b o u t
thirty miles from New York
City, is the \Vestchester County
Summer Camp. Looking east from ca1np.across
Croton Bay, one can see the City of Ossining
nestled between the rugged hills of VVestchester,
while to the west is the Hudson hemmed in by the
picturesque Palisades. This camp is unique in
that it is conducted by \Vestchester County as a
health camp for underprivileged children on the
principle that it is more desirable to keep children
healthy, both physically and mentally, than it is
to repair damaged bodies or minds.

In the summer of 1932 four nature specialists
were assigned to the nature department'of the
camp. These counselors were selected because of
special interests or training in some of the various
phases of nature work.

The hrst days at camp were spent in exploring
the interests and aptitudes of both the children
and counselors. By the end of the hrst week the
work was divided into various projects, each
nature man being responsible for his chosen sub-
jects. \Vith this division of labor the nature de—
partment made rapid progress. At our daily con-
ferences we exchanged ideas, with the result that
each project although in charge of one worker,
represented the ideas and planning of the entire
department.

Our aim was briefly stated by Miss LouiSe P.
Blackham, camp director, as that of trying to de-
velop the “seeing and understanding eye” in as
many boys as possible. We tried to arouse or
create interest and to develop habits of observ-
ing things as well as hobbies rather than to teach
the boys a way to recognize a definite number of

 

By J. D. READ

Nature Director

Westchester County Recreation Camp

A County comp seeks
For its boys the val-
ues which come from
contact with Nature.

snakes, trees or flowers. \Ve
believed that if we could create
or intensify a desire to know
the plants, animals or natural
phenomena, the boys would
continue to follow up this interest after leaving
camp. If, on the other hand, in order to secure a
badge the boys were required to memorize in a
parrot-like way a set number of facts, their in-
terest in nature would be over when their goal
had been attained.

W'e felt that the nature department to be ef—
iicient must recognize the following objectives in
building a program:

( I) It must be interesting enough to draw and
hold the boys.

(2) It must be instructive, giving some useful,
authentic information or explaining laws govern-
ing life.

(3) It must be social, developing habits of de—
sirable conduct towards animal and plant life.

(4) It must be practical enough to create hob-
bies or interests which will carry over into the
boy's life after camp closes.

(5) It must be sufficiently inspirational to lift

.the boys into a world filled with living, moving,

feeling animals and plants.

(6) It must be esthetic enough to open the
eyes of the boys to the beauties of nature.

(7) It must be broad and varied enough to
challenge the brightest boy and yet simple enough
to reach the boy who knows little about nature.

The Program

In following the interests of the boys we de-
voted most of our time to the following: Bird,
tree and exploration trips, trips to the ponds for
insects and turtles, insect hunts and flower games,

189

190 NATURE ACTIVITIES AT A BOYS" CAMP

and the construction of the nature trail, turtle
pool, bird bath and sun dial, and the making of a
relief map of the camp grounds.

Our projects and daily programs were based
upon the interests of the boys, the training and
experience of the counselors, the natural environ-
ments in which we lived, and the Weather.

Our tasks were specialized. C. R. DeSola had
charge of our work shop which served as a
changing museum and Vivarium. All of the dis-
coveries of the boys were labeled and placed
where they could be seen and examined at leisure
for a few days and were then released. By plac-
ing close to the exhibits juvenile nature books
dealing with the specimens, many boys caught the
reading habit. Several turtle hunts were organ-
ized by Mr. DeSola who was an authority on
reptile. fish and amphibian life. At camp fire pro—
grams his stories of strange animals never failed
to hold the attention of the group.

L. \Y. Turrell was a friend of all the birds.
The First weeks in camp were spent in observing
over forty—eight different species on the Point, as
well as watching six different
broods rear their young. Sev—
eral stone gathering expedi-
tions were held and a chart of

' ROCK ELASSIFIEATIUH

,CmNr-IRY rPLM "I 'mm‘
6% W CU.
I .
a Q 6-
F . .
0

ll
to

[3

Courtesy l-Iontclair, N. 1., Board of Edmation

An exhibit of this type helps greatly
in teaching boys facts about Geology.

 

the most common birds on the nature trail was
made under Mr. Turrell’s direction. A group of
older boys under his guidance made a large relief
map of the camp and constructed a sun dial.

Our “chief,” F. D. \V’eston, was a master of
Indian craft, and the boys spent many enjoyable
afternoons listening to stories and folk lore of
the Indians. Several cabins were decorated with
tomahawks, bows and arrows, and clay pipes
made under his direction. He was a great attrac-
tion at our camp tires as he always dressed in his
native clothes. Two busy days were spent in mak-
ing a life size Indian village with teepees and
tires for a glorious program of Indian life.

My particular responsibility was the coordinat-
ing of the program. we went on many tree hikes
observing the color, the general contour, the bark
and leaves of thirty species. \V'ith the younger
children flower games were very popular. Insects
always aroused their curiosity, and many boys
started to make collections of common field varie-
ties for rainy day study. During nesting time the
boys observed the family life of birds, and we
tried in this way to arouse
the protective instinct of all
the boys. A few star gazing
trips were made and several

PROPORTION-ELEMENTS

IH ERRTH'S [RUST

NATURE ACTIVITIES AT A BOYS’ CAMP 191

interesting exploration trips were conducted.
Our nature trail was enlarged and improved
by the boys who discovered a fern nook and con-
structed a turtle pool out of native material. At
camp fire stories about local animals were told.
As every boy was free to select what he wanted
to do, it was necessary for us to arrange our
morning trips so that we would not duplicate the
work that day. In the mornings we concentrated
on exploring, heavy construction work, and other
activities involving physical labor. In the after-
noon we carried on sketching, told animal or
plant stories, watched birds, took short hikes, and
did light work on projects. One glorious evening
we went on an evening stroll. About fifty boys
enjoyed the night songs of birds and insects, and

watched the sun sink—
ing behind the Palisade
hills.

Our groups number-
ed from sixteen to
eighty. At times we
would have three or
four projects going at
one time. We tried to
keep the ratio of one
counselor to every
thirty boys on our
trips. We also tried
successfully the experi-
ment of having the
boys and girls meet on
one trip to compare
results.

On rainy days we did
block leaf printing, spatter
prints, sketched and painted drawings of insects
collected on field trips, and attempted some land»
scape sketches. \Vhen it rained and was warm
enough we went on rainy day hikes which were
very popular.

On the overnight hikes a nature specialist was
always present. New plants and animals were
observed along the way. Over the smoking em-
bers of the evening fire many stories were told.

A Few Special Activities

Turtle Hunts. Boys are always interested in a
hunt or chase. An announcement of a turtle hunt
the day before would bring out about eighty boys.
Some of the boys would wade into the swamps
up to their knees and then swim after the turtles.
Some would catch larvae of insects in wire strain-

 

Boys at camp can tell you that this cellu-
loid container is used to enclose insects.

ers at the edge of the pools, while others would
watch for insects on the swamp flowers. In all
our projects the boys’ interest in whatever hap-
pened to present itself was considered of para-
mount importance. Sometimes a bit of show-
manship added to the trip by roundabout ways
through tall cat-tails where they imagine possible
danger lurks. On trips such as this the boys must
be counted and kept in one group. It is impor-
tant, too, to guard against poison ivy.

The Nature Trail. An ideal trail must be lo-
cated close to camp where many can help make it
and all may use it. After the beginning of the
trail is determined the boys should be allowed to
work out their own ideas as to where the trail

should go and how it should be beautified. They

can label the trees and
plants with the leaders’
assistance. It was ex-
tremely interesting to
see how diligently our
boys worked on the
trail and h o w they
watched it every day
to keep it in good
shape. There w e r e
always plenty of guides
to show visitors what
had been accomplished.
The Turtle Pool
After the suggestion
was given the boys
planned the shape of
the pool and the mate-
rials to use and did most of
the work. Over sixty boys
helped complete this project. The bricks came
from the beach and with their gathering came the
story of brick making, as well as the early his—
tory of the Point. In exploring the sharp sand
for the mortar we brought in the story of the
glaciers and the geology of the Point. While the
boys were digging the pool a harvest Hy nymph
was unearthed. On this discovery was hung the
life cycle of the harvest fly as well as the seven-
teen year cicada. The boys learned how to mix
and apply cement. Later they found two logs
with which they made a rustic bench overlooking
the pool and the river. The project was then
beautified by planting ferns around one side of
the pool. Many other useful and interesting ideas
presented themselves to the boys as they rested in
the cool shade or worked on the pool. It was the

192 NATURE ACTIVITIES AT A BOYS’ CAMP

incidental learning caught from building the pool
rather than the pool itself which made this a
valuable project.

Council Fires. The nature department had
charge of four council fire programs. Indian
stories, tales of strange animals, as well as in-
teresting stories of the animals about them, were
told and the boys were led in singing. Judging by
the perfect conduct of the group, the solemn
singing of “taps” and the silent departure for
camp, it was evident the boys had been greatly
impressed. They heard night melodies, saw the
beautiful sunsets, and felt that something great
was all about them. They asked for many camp
fires.

Lessons From Camp Life

During the season many remarks of the boys
told us that our program was getting “inside”
them and developing better habits and attitudes.
During the building of the turtle pool I would
hear the following: “Gee, when I get home I am
going to build a pond for frogs and fish.” “I can
do that, too, for we have lots of old brick.” “Me
and Pete are going to make a trail in the woods
back of our house.” “\Vhere can I get a net to
catch insects?” “Say, Doc, what holds the stars
up P"

“e also heard such remarks as these: “Doc,
this is the first time I have had a chance to know
real men.” “Doc, please take us on another over-
night hike. \Ve never slept out before we came
to camp.” “I used to be afraid in the dark before
I came here, but here nothing hurts you.” “Gee,
Doc, I know the fellow that threw trash on the
nature trail. I made him pick it up.” “Doc, we
had to make Freddy take a bath. He was aw fully
dirty.” “Say, Doc, when you were gone the
counselor of the day said we had the quietest
cabin on the grounds.”

One of the~outstanding characteristics of camp
last season was the close contact between the
counselors and the boys, which gave many of the
boys their first opportunity to catch the manly
qualities which boys need so badly, for the most
valuable lessons in life are “caught” rather than
taught. Attitudes, emotional standards and habits
of cleanliness and conduct are copied from their
heroes more effectively than they are taught by
parents, teachers or counselors.

A valuable experience gained in camp was that
of acquiring the art of living a group life away
from their parents or guardians. Boys who were

somewhat talkative and abusive the first days in
camp soon learned by sad experience that it is not
always wise to express themselves as they like.
Certain names cannot be called and certain cus-
toms must be obeyed They also learned cooper-
ation by doing their daily camp chores. They soon
became group conscious, willing to look after the
other fellow as well as themselves. Another valu-
able experience that many boys enjoyed last sum-
mer was that of finding themselves. For the first
time many of them had the opportunity to choose
what they wanted to do with their time in camp.
This enabled them not only to discover what ac—
tivities gave them the most pleasure but also to
develop confidence in themselves and the ability
to make more intelligent judgments concerning
their own welfare.

Through the camp program many boys learned
the greatest lesson in life, that of living together
happily. \Ve do not believe in teaching nature,
but we do believe that one of the best ways of
teaching boys to appreciate themselves and society
is to make them understand how law and order
are established in nature where man is not
present. This can be brought about only by the
boys’ close contact with something in nature that
interests him. Thus we believe in the free choice

and play way approach to nature for lasting
results.

The camper must:

Be cheerful at all times.

Be fair and square in all the work and play of
camp; in his relationships with other campers
and counselors. .

Be cooperative; willing to show less experienced
campers how to do things; anxious to learn
from more experienced campers; cheerfully
willing to do things beyond his regular duties.

Be dependable; when given responsibility be sure
to carry it out to the best of his ability without
being reminded by counselors or others.

Strive to take advantage of the opportunities of-
fered by this form of camp life for broadening
his OWn life.

Think up new ideas and work out plans for carry-
ing them out.

Be a friend whose companionship helps other
campers become better men.

Be one who shows by his actions that he has
grown in the above things during his season in
camp.

From Camp Life, Summer issue, 1933.

The Need for Recreation

in

Times of Depression

HERE IS NOT only a
T need for recreation
in times of depres-
sion, but recreation is a
necessity to a wholesome mode of living in nor—
mal times. We find ourselves at the present time
in what is well known to be a depression. There
is no doubt about there being maladjustments in
our economic and social order. The effects of
them have spread rapidly, wider and deeper,
until almost every phase of society has been
touched. It is not a local condition—it is world
wide. We are close to the point where the spirit
of our people is in danger of being broken. This
must not happen. Until conditions have righted
themselves, there is much that can be done to
keep up the spirit of the people.

Play is an important factor in keeping our
spirit aglow. For the many who have prospered
temporarily, who have now lost their possessions
and are out of work. the depression has a deep
and significant meaning because they cannot sup-
ply the needs of normal living. \Vhat is there
for them to do? The need of play and recrea-
tion is of paramount importance to them. Those
who are in more fortunate circumstances (at
least for the moment) must help to carry the
burden. They too are not at ease. There is the
uncertainty of their jobs and the thought of loss

Our first obligation is to-
word our children who are
in no way responsible for
the depression. Their un-
quenchable thirst for play
is as dominant as ever.

By LLOYD BURGESS SHARP, Ph. D.
Chicago, Illinois

of h o m e and savings.
While the economic ad-
justments are being made,
the daily routine of liv-
ing continues. People have to be fed, clothed, and
housed, and their wants and feelings adminis-
tered to. How to provide for their leisure time
becomes an increasingly important problem. We
then realize the importance of the need for play
and recreation in our society. \Ve find many
people who are now recreationally lost because
they have become accustomed to a form of rec-
reation too expensive to continue under present
circumstances. They need help and guidance in
adjusting their recreational life as much as they
do for their economic life. This shift of play life
from the expensive and somewhat artificial to
the simple has infinitely richer values for all.

Experience Has Taught Us

During the period of the war we learned a
great deal about the need for recreation. That
was another period of depression. It was a period
of anxiety, of grave concern for our very exis-'
tence. Our security was at stake and there were
hardships and distressing situations at home and
abroad. Every effort was made to get our coun-
try to come to the full realization that its people
had to stand together for their protection and

 

194 THE NEED FOR RECREATION IN TIMES OF DEPRESSION

security. In the main, cooperation in all indus-
tries was easy. Production was greatly stimulated
to supply the needs of our common objective.
Money was easily raised to meet expenses. The
country introduced economy measures in every
way—meat conservation, sugar conservation, and
the conservation of clothing. All were driving
toward the goal of victory. People willingly made
individual sacrifices, went without their pleasures,
and gave generously to their neighbors and to
people whom they did not know for the sake of
preserving the social order. Everyone recognized
the need of keeping our service men in the very
best of condition. It was the responsibility of the
community to see that the proper recreational fa-
cilities were provided for the men when OH duty.
Millions of dollars were raised to supply these
recreational needs. The government maintained
extensive recreational activities as a regular part
of the life of the soldier. It was essential to keep
the spirit of the service men at the highest point,
and everyone recognized the importance of this
and was willing to give generously to provide
for it.

It is interesting to note that in those exceed—
ingly difficult and strenuous times there was no
decrease in the recreational facilities for the com-
munity at large, but a decided increase. It is true,
however, as we look upon it now, that a great
many of these increased recreational facilities
were of a very expensive sort. Nevertheless the
community did realize the need of recreation as
never before. Much of it. has lasted and expanded.

Production in industry increased at a great
rate. It was found under pressure that it was
easy to do things on a large scale. People formed
the habit of rush and speed and the pace of liv-
ing became fast. It is taking considerable time to
adjust to more normal conditions. We are now
in the slowing up process. We are beginning to
realize that it will be necessary to slow down.
The depression is calling this to our attention
very forcibly. The tension is being released from
many strained situations, and in all it is' a period
of adjustment to a new order of living. We are
seeing new values in life. We are seeing that the
real values are not so much in material things as
in our appreciation of the efforts of others, in
serving others, and in living a happy and useful
life as we go along.

What Play Does
We need to stop and play more. Friendships

are enriched and understanding is more mean—
ingful when people play together. Play of this
sort is not expensive. We do not need to depend
so much upon the commercial type of recreation.
There is much that can be done without cost. \\'e
need to play just for the fun of it. There is a
release of spiritual values through play, and it is
almost needless to mention the untold health
values. They come when play is made a regular
part of our daily life in the out—of—doors, hiking
and tramping, skating, running, and in a wide
range of activities.

Our first obligation, however, is toward our
children. They are in no way responsible for a
depression and do not understand the meaning
of it. Their unquenchable thirst for play is as
dominant as ever. Play is necessary for proper
growth of the child. We have no more right to
thwart or starve them of their play than we have
to take food from them. We must see to it that
our children have, in these times, as well as the
proper food the proper recreational facilities and
leadership. The play life is the educational life
of the child and our future society depends upon
our children of today. If the children form
proper habits in play and make right use of their
play time, many problems confronting our com-
munity will be solved. The records of the crim-
inal courts and juvenile delinquency organiza-
tions give us many convincing facts to support
these contentions.

\V e need to increase the facilities of our recre-
ation clubs for boys and girls and to expand the
recreational opportunities in the settlement and
neighborhood houses. \Ve need to increase our
whole program of leisure time activities for our
young people as we have never increased it be-
fore. It does not take a great deal of money to
carry out a recreational program but it does take
the time of people who see the importance of it
and who can help in developing leaders and or-
ganizing our facilities to provide recreation for

‘all. It is almost equal to a war emergency and

united effort and cooperation are needed to make
the “no man’s land” of the depression a play field
where a change of attitude and spirit can be made
even though jobs may not be at hand at the
moment. Money is not as necessary as leadership
and help in promoting recreational activities.

We need to understand better the attitude of
OUr yOUng people if we are to be effective in pro-
viding the right kind of play life for them. It
isn’t so much that the young people are different

THE NEED FOR RECREATION IN TIMES OF DEPRESSION 195

and out of gear with life, but it is more that we

adults are out of step and do not keep pace with,“
them. we can not understand our children and"

young people unless we play with them. There
is a common and sympathetic understanding
when people enjoy play experiences together. We
cannot be make-believe players. We must actu-
ally have the spirit of play and share it with our
children.

Parents often play generously and lovingly
with little tots. They can handle and fondle them
like small pets. It is not difficult to amuse small
children, but later on the problem becomes more
complicated and adults seldom make the full ad-
j ustment. The youngsters have become “play-
wise” and unless the adult progresses in his forms
of play along with the child, there is not a com-
mon play spirit and the real values of play are
lost. What I have in mind especially is the very
great need for the revival of the play spirit in our
homes—the entire family playing together. \Vhen-
ever a family plays together habitually rather than
accidently, you can count on it that it is a strong
unit of society and a happy group of people.

Home Play Vital

What is the play program for a home? Are
there times when your family goes on a “bat”
together? Do you play games at home? Do you
have facilities in your backyard for family play?
If you golf, do you golf together, or is the play
life of the family divided?

At this particular season of the year our
thoughts turn toward the program for the sum—
mer, and what we might do even though times
are difiicult to make this summer as enjoyable as
possible. Last summer I saw a family of six
neatly tucked away in the beautiful Adirondack
Mountains. Their car was equipped for camping
purposes. \Vith tent pitched, campfire burning
coffee pot on the fire and every evidence that the
father had prepared a good meal, this family,
clad in bathing suits, was having a grand time.
They had picked a beauty spot in this mountain
region that had never been camped on before.
There are millions of beauty spots in this country
beckoning to families to come and camp on them
this summer. It costs very little to live out in the
open, and it is fun to do it.

We need a revival of play spirit in the home
and in our community and especially among
adults. Right now is a good time to make a start.

If a tripliis impossible, there is much that can be
done in own backyard. Equip it with a fire—
place and”1i:ook your meals over the open fire;
provide recreational facilities suitable to that
yard; visit with friends and neighbors; take time
to sit and talk. The country side is full of in-
teresting trails. Hiking is one of the most bene-
ficial activities we have. If your shoes wear out,
give the bare feet a chance to touch earth; it will
be good for them. Fix up your fishing pole
and line. It does not need to be a fancy one.
Some of the biggest fish have been caught on a
willow stick and a hook with a screw for a
sinker. Do you swim? This summer is an ex—
cellent time to learn the exhilarating effect of
swimming. The ability to swim is recognized now
as almost a necessity, and above all it is a health-
ful and enjoyable form of recreation.' Golf is
within the reach of most people now. It is a fine
game and one that gives you a thrill when the-

feeling of control has been accomplished.

In this time of unemployment and depression,
recreation is an important brace to the lowered
spirit of our communities. It can help change the
point of view of people. It can change an indi-
vidual and a group from gloom to joy. Let us
make the play spirit of our home and our com—
munity contagious and the effects will be felt
throughout. the country.

“\V e cannot enjoy life until there is a common
sense of well-being. .The time is coming when
the sort of leisure in which we are not con-
strained but free to choose our operations will be
the norm of social life. The most significant fact
in civilization is to become that part of life in
which a man is active according to his own choice.
Up to now we have made a fetish of efficiency,
and the sacred ideas of American civilization have
been that we must work, do, accomplish things.
and be paid in proportion. This situation has poi-
soned our leisure. We have been too tired for
creative pleasures. Life has been so filled with
details of sacred duty of work that we have no
time for leisure. . . . I am perfectly certain that
any measure of work by what is paid for it is
vicious. The relationship between work and re—
ward has degraded our conception of work and
leisure alike. The only thing that has relieved us
has been our hobbies.”—V~ida D. S rudder, at the
Alumnae Conference on Leisure, held at \Velles-

ley College, April, 1933.

School
Gardens

In
Detroit

INCE THE inauguration of
S the Department of Rec-
reation in Detroit, garden—
ing has been conducted as one
of the activities supported by
appropriation of the Common
Council. The Department has always encouraged
both the economic and esthetic phases of garden-
ing, but during the \Vorld War and since the be-
ginning of the depression greater emphasis has
been placed upon growing and conserving food
to help feed families. The original aim, however,
remains unchanged—t0 lay the foundation for
better citizenship and to give the growing boy and
girl an opportunity for many-sided development.
The Department of Recreation enjoys the fine
cooperation of the Board of Education and its
Landscape Department, and of the superintend-
ent, principals and science teachers of the public
schools. It is through this cooperation that it has
been possible to extend the work to the school
children all over the city.

The parent of the Garden Department, the
Home and School Garden Committee of the
Twentieth Century Club of Detroit, has for a
period of twenty-eight years distributed flower
and vegetable seeds to pupils of the public schools
at one cent a package. The money accruing from
these sales has been turned back into the work in
the form of awards to the schools in the annual
garden contest in August and the annual flower
festival contest in September. The money was
also used in making it possible for the Garden
Division of the Department of Recreation to
carry on the work during the past year.

Cooperation is also given by Michigan’s latest
organization in the gardening field—the Michigan

196

 

By MARY H. GROSVENOR

Supervisor of Gardens
Department of Recreation

Detroit. Michigan

The school gardens of
Detroit have long been
an important part of
the recreation program

Horticultural Society — which
has included in its constitution
and by-laws a divsion for jun-
ior gardening. The Garden De—
partment is a member of the
Federated Garden Clubs of
Michigan and the School Garden Association of
America, and is enrolled with the 4-H Clubs of
the United States Department of Agriculture and
the \Vayne County Farm Bureau club work.

Method of Work

The school or community center serves as :1
unit of organization for the gardening program.
By permission or invitation of the principal in
charge, who very often assists in selecting the
pupils who are to have gardens, an invitation is
extended to all pupils of the fourth grade or up-
ward through the eighth grade, or pupils of ten

' years of age to eighteen ‘years who are willing to

fulfill the requirements. These requirements are
—to make and take care of a garden throughout
the season; to keep a record of the garden (or
canning) ; to make an exhibit, and to complete the
project with a report and story of the garden.
The boys and girls who agree to carry out these
provisions and who have permission from their
parents or guardians to join the club are eligible
to membership. Members elect their officers—.
president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer
———under the leadership of the garden director.
Meetings of one—half hour periods of school time
are held regularly once a week or once in two
weeks as the principal decides. During the sea-
son of planting the garden club is allowed a
longer period, and during the summer vacation
the club meets reg‘IJlarly in the school garden. All

SCHOOL GARDENS IN DETROIT 197

meetings are conducted according to parliamen—
tary procedure. The president occupies the chair,
and at the close of the business meeting turns the
program over to the director who has lesson or
demonstration in charge. Both school and home
gardens are conducted through the school vaca-
tion, from July 1st to September 15th. Canning
classes are held every Thursday at the Elmwood
Center.

For the school gardens, of which all but four
are on school property, the Department of Recre—
ation furnishes all equipment, seeds and tools, and
prepares the ground.

Each boy or girl or class is given a plot. The
children plant vegetables and flowers in the plots
with the aid of the garden director, and take full
care of the garden under leadership, cultivating,
thinning, transplanting, watering, spraying and
harvesting the crop. The children.receive all the
produce they raise to take home or do with as
they wish.

Each garden is scored weekly, “A” being the
highest rating. All neglected gardens and those
plots which are rated “E” twice are given to new
applicants. Members of the clubs are awarded
with honor points, picnic, held trips and achieve-
ment pins.

For home gardens the members provide their
own equipment, seeds and tools, receiving assist—
ance in the preparation of the soil and all heavy
work. The entire care of the garden must be the
responsibility of the member. The garden director
visits the garden twice during the season, oftener
if possible.

Every garden club member is expected to con-
serve all surplus vegetables for winter use by
canning. All who are interested in learning how
to can vegetables and fruit by the One Period Hot
Pack method, which is recommended by the
United States Department of Agriculture, may
become members of the canning clubs which in
past years have met regularly once a week during
July and August in the domestic science rooms of
the public schools. The Board of Education fur—
nished gas, water, gas ranges, and all equipment
to be found in a kitchen. The Garden Depart-

ment provided towels, cutlery, spoons, and the
instructor.

The boys and girls and adults who wish to at-
tend bring their vegetables, fruits, jars, rubber
rings and similar material. All produce provided
and canned by the club members belongs to them.

In 1932 it was necessary to reduce the number of
clubs to one which met regularly from July Ist to
September 15th in the kitchen at Elmwood Cen—
ter. Seventeen hundred and eighty—six quarts
were canned under the leadership of the De-
partment.

The boys’ and girls’ clubs are federated and in
the past have met regularly the last Saturday of
each month except in December. This organiza—
tion has had great influence in maintaining inter—
est in gardening and canning and in stimulating
club members to do their best. Unfortunately the
depression has caused an indefinite postponement
of the meetings.

It is the duty of the garden director to or-
ganize the garden and canning clubs, supervise
all club meetings, teach the art of gardening to
the club members in the school gardens, and fol-
low up the work by visiting the club members’
home gardens giving individual instruction there.
The director also keeps a record of each club
member’s work and makes a Weekly report of her
own visits, work and attendance. She leads the
club members on held trips, picnics and parties,
attends the monthly meetings of the Detroit Fed-

eration of Boys and Girls Clubs, and is one of
the Advisory Committee.

\V e have been able to see many good results
from the gardening program. \Ve have seen, for
example, that the boy’s and girl’s interest in
gardenng and nature has helped them to decide
upon seeking a higher training course of study
and often to choose a vocation. At the present
time we have two graduated foresters, both in
government employ; several members of the club
have continued as florists; some have become
truck gardeners, and many have gone to farming.
Many are home makers who have back yard gar-
dens of their own and who fill the fruit closet
each season with canned vegetables and fruit.

The greatest problem is to find teachers who
are capable of assuming responsibility. A good
garden or nature teacher should have personality
and should be a lover of nature. She should pos—
sess some knowledge gained by actual work in a
garden. The ideal teacher has an exceptional op-

portunity to lead children to a happy, successful
life through the teaching of gardening science.

The Council of Social Agencies of Reading,
Pennsylvania, has issued the following garden

(Continued on page 206)

World

i-rqmpn  ._
u-f- _

Ploy



at  *1 
:I ’3?  -

"H.

 

Courtesy Highway Engineer and Contractor

 

Sacramento Boys
Go Camping

\VHEN a special sur-
vey disclosed the fact
that many of the boys
in Sacramento, Cali-
fornia, families receiving aid from relief funds
were in poor physical condition, it was decided
to give about a hundred of the most needy chil-
dren a week’s outing amid the healthful surround-
ings of the mountain country back of the city.
The Boy Scouts offered the use of their camp,
delightfully located and well equipped for the
purpose, and the boys spent the week of July 31st
to August 6th at the camp under the auspices of
the Municipal Recreation Department, with Ken-
neth B. Fry, Director of Playgrounds, in charge.
All boys were recommended by one of the relief
agencies in the Community Chest. They were
given a careful medical examination before and
after attendance at camp. Exceptional care was
given to diet, and the day’s program provided a
balance between activities and rest. No fees were
charged but boys were asked to provide them-
selves with blankets or quilts, toilet articles, swim-
ming suits and some personal eHects. The week
in camp resulted in increased weight for the 81
boys in attendance and greatly improved mental
and physical condition.

 

 

THE City of Los An-
geles, California, has
won a suit instituted
several years ago by
the city on behalf of the Playground and Recre-
ation Department to return to public ownership
a strip of beach more than 100 feet in width and
several blocks in length. A private residence was
built on a portion of the land. “The decision of

198

Beach Property“
Recovered

the court was hailed by the Playground and Rec-
reation Department officials not only as a victory
for public ownership of beaches but also as a re-
iteration of the principle that beach land built up
by artichcial secretion of sands due to piers or
other structures jutting into the sea became public
property when the tide lands from which the
beach arose were also public property.”

THE sixty-first an-
nual report of the
public library of Law-
rence, Massachusetts.
shows a total circulation of 407,081 volumes in
1932, an increase of more than 20 per cent over
1931. It has been apparent from overcrowded
reading and newspaper rooms that' large numbers
of people out of work are utilizing. their spare
time reading. “The library in these hard times,”
states the report, “has proved itself to be a solace
to the unemployed, a release to the discouraged,
and an encouragement to those still hopeful.”

A Library Serves
the Unemployed

TENNIS players on
courts maintained by
the Recreation De-
partment of Detroit,
Michigan, are being asked to pay a fee after 1 :00
P. M. The players will have the privilege of mak-
ing reservations twenty-four hours in advance
upon payment of the fee of 20 cents per hour per
court. The fee is the same regardless of the num-
ber of persons using the court during the hour.
In order to give the unemployed an opportunity to
play free, no charge will be made for the Use of
the courts during the morning hours.

Tennis In
Detroit

WORLD AT PLAY 199

Wilkes Barre’s Store Employees Association
—The Store Employees Association of Wilkes
Barre, Pennsylvania, organized in 1923 by the
Playground and Recreation Association of VVy—
0ming Valley, has issued its first monthly bulletin,
“The Spot Light.” It represents forty-eight teams
in the seven leagues of bowlers and a number of
basketball and volley ball leagues. ln cooperation
with the School Board, swimming classes have
been scheduled. A fee of $.25 includes instruc—
tion, towel and soap. In addition, a half hour dip
may be had once a week in the Y. W. C. A. pool
for a fee of $.10. Other activities include tap
dancing, and for men a ground school course in
aviation.

In the Chicago Shelters—In the infirmary of
the Chicago shelters there are from 400 to 500
men ranging in age from sixty to eighty. For
their recreation stereopticon slides are shown.
Singing is very popular with these men.

Fitchburg Reports Developments—On July
4th a new swimming pool in Fitchburg, Massa—
chusetts, was dedicated and turned over to the
Park Commission making the city the proud pos—
sessor of one of the largest outdoor pools in this
section of the country. Through unemployment
relief funds the city has received $50,000 worth
of labor. Grading and surfacing have been done
at all the grounds. The tennis courts, ball dia--
monds and children’s areas are in excellent con—
dition. Two new areas have been developed and
the Commission is now arranging to build a
$3,000 shelter and storage house on each of the
three grounds. For this organized labor has
agreed to contribute all the work necessary.
Bricks and lumber, too, are being provided mak-
ing it necessary to spend only a few hundred dol-
lars for roofing and nails.

A Dramatic Festival—The women of Lans-
ing, Michigan, held a demonstration on March
8th and 9th, when the recreation clubs conducted
by the Department of Public Recreation presented
a number 'of plays interspersed with music. The
plays given were “Sauce for the Goslings.”
“Three Little Maids from School Are We,” “The
Making of Feathertop,” “Mother’s Day Off,”
“Thursday Evening,” “Kidnapping Betty,”
“\Nho’s the Boss?” and “Joint Owners in Spain.”

At last - SAFETY-

in 3 Swing Seat!

Everwear Scores Again!

 

       
     
 

Patent Pending

No more serious dan-
ger from a swing seat
IF it is the new, Ever-

Wear

Spring - Rubber
' Safety Seat
N0. SR-205

All exposed and con-
tact surfaces of the ,
seat are soft, springy,
tubular, corrugated,
fabric-reinforced rub-
ber. The five tubular
rubber section are in-
teriorally reinforced
by spring steel.

The suspension

clevises are re-
versible, doubl-

ing the life of
the seat.

The-seat is venti-
lated and all sur-
faces are non-slip.

R e-e quip all old
swing outfits and
specify this seat for

all new swings. I

 

A complete line of approved Playground Apparatus. Beach

and Pool Equipment. Write for new Catalog No. 24.

The EverWear Manufacturing Co.

SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

200 IVORLD AT PLAY

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

 

DIAMOND

Official pitching horseshoes and accessories are
a necessity on every playground. Here is a
game everyone can play and enjoy. Easily in-
stalled and maintained. The Diamond line in-
cludes everything from booklets of explanation
and rules to several models of official pitching
shoes. Score pads, percentage charts. carrying
cases, steel stakes and stake holders and official
courts ready to set up—indoors or out.

Write for catalog
DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

46|0 GRAND AVENUE. DULUTH. MINN. i

 

Basketball in Its Early Stages—The sugges-
tion is under consideration that the prehistoric
ancestor of basketball be featured with its arche-
010gical settings at the world’s fair in Chicago.
Describing the project, Major George 0. Totten,
Jr. of 1\‘Vashington, who designed a number of the
embassy buildings in the national capital, says:

“The ball court of ancient Yucatan, at Chichen
Itza, would be of great interest to exposition
visitors not only architecturally and archeologi-
cally but it would have a purpose that would at-
tract thousands. Here the great ball game of the
ancient. Mayas could again be played. It was a
splendid game, similar to our basketball except
that the ball was struck by different parts of the
body and not tossed by hand. The Siamese and
many Pacific islanders still play ball in a similar
manner. The game in Yucatan seems to have
been brought there from the Valley of Mexico
by the Nahaus about: 1200 A. D.”

A Study of Delinquency — Miss Katherine
Krieg, Director of Recreation in Des Moines,
Iowa, reports an interesting study of delinquency
in her city. From the figures now available, a 60

per cent increase in delinquency is shown for the
entire city where there are no playgrounds and a
22 per cent increase where playgrounds have been
organized. This study which Miss Krieg is mak-
ing covers a period of four years.

Rural Recreation Councils Created—As a re-
sult of the recreation training institute for rural
leaders conducted in California by the National
Recreation Association, in cooperation with the
cooperative extension work of the United States
Department of Agriculture, recreation councils
have been organized in practically all the counties
where the institutes were held. Many of them
are very active and are meeting regularly. In a
number of other states similar groups are known
as recreation leaders’ committees or associations.

In a Small Community—\Vaterford, 1W iscon-
sin, a community of less than 1000 people, is to
have an athletic field on ground purchased for the
sewerage disposal plant. A board, representing
the village, volunteer fire department, the Lions
Club and the American Legion, has been ap-
pointed to take charge of the development of the
field, and a schedule of work to be done has been

laid out.

For the Physically Handicapped—The Union
County, New Jersey, Park Commission in cooper-
ation with a special committee of the Elizabeth
Rotary Club, last year performed a constructive
piece of work in connection with a group of phy-
sically handicapped children. Six picnics were
arranged for the children in three of the parks.
The physical condition of the children varied from
minor handicaps to others which prevented them
from taking part in very active games. The di-
rectors encouraged the children in every way to
take part in all of the different activities planned.
It was observed that with each succeeding picnic
the children entered the games with greater in-
tereSt, confidence and enjoyment. Different types
of games were experimented with from quiet table
games to baseball and other active sports. Much
improvement was noted in several of the boys and
girls. One or two who were sure they could not
run very soon forgot themselves and played freely
with the other children, their handicaps completely

forgotten.

No Funds But On They Gol—The Depart-
ment of Recreation and Playgrounds of Lynch-
burg, Virginia, reports that with a reduction in

IVORLD AT PLAY 201

budget for equipment no funds are available for
the purchase of ropes, jacks, volley balls, croquet
and other equipment used in the spring tourna-
ments. Supplies are therefore being secured from
other sources. A traction company is providing
the department with trolley rope which is being
used for jumping ropes, and petitions are being
circulated for nets and lime so that the tennis
courts may be reconditioned.

Jig Saw Puzzles in the Play Program—A jig
saw puzzle contest has been one of the events in
the program of the Recreation Board -of VVil-
mette, Illinois, which is sponsored by the Board
of Education. The contest, which was held on the
afternoon and eVEning of April 12th, was con-
ducted in one of the schools. The winner of the
contest for school children finished a one hundred
piece puzzle in exactly twenty-four minutes. The
senior tournament contestants were given two
hundred piece puzzles to solve. It took the win-
ner in this classification an hour and twelve and a

half minutes to put her puzzle together.

The jig saw craze, it is predicted by George W.
Braden, district representative of the N. R. A..
will outlast the fad for miniature golf and will
lead eventually to an increased use of table games,
such as dominoes, checkers, chess and cards. Jig
saw puzzles have been a popular amusement “off
and on” for a quarter of a century, according to
Mr. Braden. Thousands of puzzles were used
during and after the war to entertain wounded

soldiers in Italy.

Admission Fees Reduced—Last summer the
Union County Park Commission reduced admis-
sion fees to the swimming pools and beaches at
Rahway and Linden, New Jersey. Children were
admitted each week day morning, including Sat-
urdays, without charge. In the afternoon they paid
IO cents instead of I5 cents. Adults paid 20 cents
instead of 25 cents, while on Sunday and holidays
rates were 40 cents instead of 50 cents for adults,
and 20 cents instead of 25 cents for children. The
cost of renting bathing suits was also reduced.
On July 11th the Commission reported that the
number of.visitors to the parks had increased,
and in spite of several week-ends of bad weather
in June the increase in attendance over June, 1931
was 20 per cent. Baseball, soft ball, fishing, hand-
ball and nationality programs showed the greatest
gains. At one of the parks a fly casting platform
has been erected and a contest held. Instruction

“Recreation and Unemployment”

O A publication of interest to all individuals
and groups concerned with keeping up the
morale of the unemployed.

The booklet tells what a number of com-
munity groups are doing to meet the
problem. how buildings of all kinds are
being used as recreation centers. and de-
scribes the activities conducted. Plans for
organization are suggested and information
given regarding the made work program
through which many cities are increasing
their recreation facilities.

PRICE $.25

National Recreation Association

3|5 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

 

in casting was provided one day a week for any
interested.

Safety Posters—The Education Division of
the National Safety Council, I Park Avenue, New
York City, has issued three attractive colored
posters which may be of interest to recreation
workers. \Vhile the emphasis is on safety, the
posters show play activities and are attractively
designed and executed. The price is 35 cents for
a single set, 30 cents for 50 or more, and 25 cents
in quantities of 100 and over.

Bird Houses Galore !—It was a gala day when
the boys of the public playgrounds in Detroit,
Michigan, presented to Park Commissioner Henry
W. Busch more than 500 bird houses which they
had made during the winter. These houses will
be set up for the use of the birds who make their
home on Belle Isle.

A Water-Works Plant Becomes An Athletic
Field—The Borough of Fair Lawn, New Jersey,
in which Radburn is located, is grading, top sur-
facing and planting the ten acre water-works
property for an athletic field and playground. The
Borough voted $3,000 from the unemployment
fund for the work. The development will even—

' tually include football, baseball and soccer fields,

202 THE FLOWER MARKET TOT LOT PLAYGROUND

Be Sure to Get Details on
NEW "Free Glide" Shuffleboard

Free-Glide Shufileboard equipment has in-
creased the already popular appeal of Shuf-
fleboard. Will not warp or break and is
amazingly low in cost. Write today for
complete information. instructions how to
install and extremely low prices.

’The H. G. Cress Co.

Box NR-53 Troy, Ohio.

playground baseball diamonds, eight tennis courts
and facilities for handball, basketball and volley
ball. There will also be included a secluded child-
ren’s playground and a quarter mile track with
running pits.

The Flower Market Tot Lot Playground

(Continued from page 168)

First offenders are given a membership in the
club either by the captain of police or the magis-
trate. He is told to use the club and is expected
to be found there. "
These young men have learned to respect prop-
erty rights. Let no one make the mistake of

 

Read This Letter

“When I moved in as Director of
Crystal Pool, Glen Echo Park, Mary-
land, right under my arm I carried
your complete Reference Book —
Notable Swimming Pools and Guide
to Equipment and Supplies.

“This Guide has ser'ved me dozens
of times already. It is, indeed, the

Pool Bible.

“(Signed)
“CAPT. EDw. H. MCCRAHON.”

NOTE: Before becoming Director of Glen Echo,
Capt. McCrabon was for seven years manager of

Spa Municipal Pool and Beach, St. Petersburg, Fla.

Send for a C0py To-day

THIS $2.00 VOLUME WILL BE ‘SENT FOR
54 CENTS IN STAMPS. IF THE SUPPLY HAS
BEEN EXHAUSTED UPON RECEIPT OF
YOUR STAMPS. SAME WILL BE RETURNED

Hoffman—Harris, Inc.
“4 E. 32nd smear NEW YORK CITY

 

breaking in or destroying the furniture of their
club! \Vhen a member has not been able to re-
strain himself from using liquor either to forget
his troubles or to put life into his dull existence,
and comes to the club, he always leaves a sober
member. There are always on hand any number
of members who voluntarily undertake the task
of making him sober! Often three or four rounds
in the boxing ring are sufficient.

The complete story of this venture cannot now
be written, but its opening chapters seem to offer
the method for the organization of similar clubs
in neighborhoods where the problem to be met is
as acute as in this district.

PIays and Pageants for the Playground

(Continued from page 173)

be adapted for the out—of—doors. There is a roy-
alty of $5.00 for each performance but“ it is well
worth this nominal sum.

Special occasions, such as Health \Veek, Fourth
of July, Safety \Veek and similar occasions, may
be culminated with an appropriate play or pag—
eant embodying the principles which were
stressed during the particular event. For Health
Week, do by all means try The Little Vegetable
Men by Eleanor Glendower Grifiith, or The
Magic Oat field by the same author. Both are con-
tained in Dramatiaing Child Health by Grace T.
Hallock, published by the American Child Health
Association, 450 Seventh Avenue, New York. If
these do not suit your purpose, address the Na-
tional Tuberculosis Association in New York City
for their booklet, entitled Plays and Pageantry.
This is a descriptive list of health plays recom-
mended by the National Health Council from
which you will be sure to find material adaptable
to almost any cast.

Excellent for the Fourth of July is The
Cracker Conspiracy by Alice Townsend, and
Brain’s Inn by the same author can be strongly
recommended for a Safety \Veek celebration.
These are published by Education Division, Na-
tional Safety Council. I Park Avenue, New York.

Canoeing and Tennis in a
County Park System

(Continued from page 175)

The interest developed by tennis was so keen
that requests for permission to conduct ladder

CANOEING AND TENNIS IN A COUNTY PARK SYSTEM 203

tournaments were received. They were so ar-
ranged as not to interfere with normal use of the
courts by those not interested in tournament play.
The method followed was relatively simple. On
the bulletin board of the club house was placed a
chart ranking the players somewhat arbitrarily, it
is true, though pretty much in line with the results
of the elimination tournaments held in July. Any
one feeling' he was out of place might challenge a
player not more than three rounds up the ladder
from his own position, the one challenged being
under obligation to accept or lose his rank by de-
fault. Matches were for two out of three sets,
the results being handed in to the starter at the
courts on a memorandum slip signed by the

players.

These tournaments were participated in almost
entirely by adults. Freeholder Zenas Crane, feel—
ing that juniors should be encouraged, offered
trophies for the winners of a tournament to be

conducted the latter part of September and the_

early part of October, play in which should be
confined to novices residing in Essex County.

Tin Can Craft on the Playground
(Continued from page 178)

which goes against the tin. After placing some
small flattened pieces of self—Huxing solder 'under
the design, bind it to the object with wire or
string using a small block or wedge of wood over
the design to hold it securely in place. The wooden
wedge should be very small so as not to hide the
design. Now apply heat to the opposite side of
the tin object and as soon as the solder flows,
remove the heat.

There are many other articles that can be made
from tin, such as flower holders, tea trays, coast-
ers and desk sets, Christmas tree ornaments and
toys of all kinds. The drama enthusiast can use
tin in many ways for imitation jewelry, coats of
mail, head-dresses and reflectors for footlights.

How to Produce a Play
(Cantirmed from page 179)

ability, not personality or characterization, but
Something often rare but always necessary called
“dependabilit *! ” The genius who does not come
to rehearsals, or who will not learn his lines before
the dress rehearsal, is not an asset; he’s a distinct

 

 

 

 

 

  

Bright

SUNSHINE
Clean
. FRESH AIR

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

ROTECTING children at play is the aim

of the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the dan-
gers and dirt in dust! It's so easy and
it costs next to nothing. '

An application ofSOlvay Floke Calcium
Chloride on gravel or earth surfaces
effectively ends the dust nuisonce. And
Solvay Calcium Chloride kills germs.
The photomicrographs pictured here
show you the results. 347 cultures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the same dust
treated with Solvoy Calcium Chloride.

Germs
in Dust

Before treatment After treatment

 

Make this a dustless outdoor season
on your playgrounds. Send today for
full information and booklet No.1l59.

\ SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

1...: ,_.. Alkolies and Chemical Products Manufac.
k ' tured by The Solvoy Process Company
6] Broadway New York

$3 0 LVAY

   

TRADE MARK REG U S. PAT OFF

ALCIUM
CHLIDRIDE

FlAKE—77%—80%

 

 

204 HOW TO PRODUCE A PLAY

liability. Of course the actor must be given a
chance. Determining dependability is a matter of
“trial and error,” but if Mary is cast into a part,
and she comes around to two rehearsals out of
Seven, the next time the director is casting he will
know exactly where to cast Mary!

The voice of the applicant should be considered
carefully. Does it carry well enough to be heard
in the last row? Is it clear enough to be under-
stood in all rows? Is it in character for the part?
Perhaps the director is searching for some one to
play an old man of seventy. If a young man can
make his voice sound seventy, he can be made to
look seventy.

Appearance is also important. Can this actor
be “made up” for the part? Make-up has great
possibilities, but there are limits to its effective—
ness. Size and bodily stature must be considered.
A six foot heroine playing opposite a five foot
hero is apt to be most embarrassing in the love
scenes.

The applicant’s manner of walking, his move-
ments, and his carriage should be noted.

The imagination of the applicant will show in
his interpretation of the lines, his idea of the cha-
racterization, and any little bits of business that
he may use in giving the try out lines.

Some of the lines used in the try out should be
of an emotional nature, so that the sincerity and
emotional sensitiveness of the applicant can be
tested.

The applicant’s acting experience should be
considered. Acting, like most other good things,
improves with age. The director should beware of
always casting his actors in the same type of role.
In some groups it is dangerous to be too good an
actor. If a young man makes a success of an old
man’s part, he may be doomed to play old men
for the rest of his life. Actors should be given a
chance to show their ability in different types of
roles.

An occasional “work shop” production is re-
commended to little theatres and dramatic clubs
for the purpose of discovering new talent and of
helping the newer members of the group to secure
experience. These should always be advertised as
“work shop” productions, and the admission fee

should be small.

It should always be made clear to the applicants
who are not given a part that no reflection is being
cast upon their acting ability. Some one else fits
the part in this play better than they do. In the

next production they may be better suited to a
role than any one else. They should be urged to
try out for the next play.

National Forest Playgrounds

of the Pacific Northwest
(Continued from jiggle 182).

U. S. Forest Service in cooperation with the Na-
tional Broadcasting Company, and are usually
based on actual happenings in the life and work
of the forest rangers. They tell the story of
Ranger Jim and his young assistant, Jerry, and
the activities and adventures connected with their
work on one of Uncle Sam’s National Forests.

The program is broadcast on Thursdays at
I :00 p. m. eastern standard time, from forty-nine
NBC stations east of the Rockies. In the western
States they are presented by NBC stations on
Mondays at 12:45 p. m. Pacific time. A party,
with or without lunch, at your center to listen-in
each week to Jim and Jerry might be a good at-
traction, especially in these days of unemploy-
ment and enforced leisure. The series is instruc-
tive as well as entertaining, and, if for no other
reason, you will love Ranger Jim and his assist-
ant because they are so human.

Puppet Shows. If you are interested in mak-
ing puppet shows, you might very well adapt
some of the ranger playlets to the purpose. The
scenery would be simple to make and the figures
no more diflicult than the average puppets. Flan-
nel shirt, khaki breeches, puttees, and stetson hat
would be the desirable uniform of the rangers.
The various other characters could be dressed as
the imagination suggests. The shows could be
very entertaining, for Rangers Jim and Jerry
could be put through any number of thrilling
adventures.

Paul Bunyan, that mythical super-human lum—
berjack of the North Woods would also make an
excellent subject for the puppet show, especially
if he is accompanied by “Babe” his “Big Blue
Ox.” Paul, who was supposed to be of gigantic
proportions, would tower over any other charac—
ter that entered the shows. By following some of
the plots of the numerous stories about him, Paul
could be taken through any number of amusing
and fearsome exploits. Your local library can
furnish books containing stories of Paul Bunyan

and his big blue ox.

POPULARIZING THE SWHIIMING BADGE TESTS 205

Arbor Day. Spring is the time for Arbor Day
celebrations and tree plantings. Perhaps this year
you want a different kind of celebration. Why not
have a forestry play or pageant this spring? It
is, of course, more interesting for a recreation
group to write its own playlet, but if you do not
wish to do this there are a number of plays you
could use. One of the new ones, “All Aboard the
Forestry Special,” by Mrs. Francis H. Doud, is
simple and makes an effective outdoor production.
Information regarding this playlet as well as sug—
gestions for an Arbor Day program may be ob-
tained from the Forest Service, U. S. Department
of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.

Popularizing the Swimming Badge Tests
(Continued from page 183)

been going over your tests with my staff and we
feel that they are very comprehensive and Of
great value in the progress of swimming.” Nathan
L. Mallison, Superintendent of Recreation of
Jacksonville, Florida, states: “The tests are
mighty popular with our swimmers.” L. G. Bur-
sey of the Cooperstown Playground, Coopers-
town, New York, writes: “These tests are very
popular in our classes and we expect to devote one
week to give other new members an opportunity
to take them.” “I have only used the first tests
as yet but I find they are very good and the boys
and girls enjoy them,” writes I. H. Juel, Director
of Swimming, Ashland Foundation, Ashland,
\Visconsin. “They give the boys and girls a chal-
lenge and the pupils work hard to pass them. I
believe the swimming for speed is also very good
because it usually means the pupil must improve
on his swimming form to be able to swim a cer-
tain distance in a certain time.”

Interest in the tests is widespread as indicated
by the various types of organizations which have
used them. Universities, colleges and normal
schools, Y.M.C.A.’s,,Y.VV.C.A.’s, recreation de—
partments, high schools, junior high schools, Boy
Scouts, camps and similar groups are represented
on the list. I

Further information may be secured from the
Correspondence and Consultation Bureau of the
National Recreation Association.

Hidden Wealth Revealed by Bankers

(Continued from page 186)

be very much enlivened. The satisfaction of con-
tributing so directly to an admirable community

88 Successful Play
Activities

0 A complete revision of the booklet
which has been proving so practical
for a number of years.

0 Many new activities have been
added. Of special interest to the
play leader are chapters on.Side—
walk Games and Home Equipment

Games never before included.

0 A section on Tournaments gives
full directions for a number of
contests.

O Other chapters deal with Music

and Drama, Shows and Exhibits,
Nature Play and Winter Sports.

Price 3 .60

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 FOURTH AVENUE New YORK CITY

 

project should also be inspiring. New groups
might come into being as a result Of the oppor-
tunity or need for them. Furthermore, the gath-
ering of people for music might be a perfect oc—
casion for introducing other recreational activi-
ties to them. For example, after a concert and
“sing” lasting until 9:30 the audience might be
invited to an hour’s “social recreation,” or to an
opportunity to learn folk dances that they have
just been watching. In a center where hand-
crafts, dramatics or other such activities are pro-

vided, the musical evenings might win many peo-
ple to them also.

The “evenings of music” might thus serve well
not only all the hopes aroused by Dr. \Voodin’s

address, but also some other good hopes of the
recreation leader.

A Progressive Contest Party
(Continued from page 188)

No. 3. From a distance of 10 feet toss the heels

or rubber disks so they will rest within the scor-
ing area.

Other Games

Several good games may be played by sliding
small disks into a scoring area, such as that il-

206 MAGAZINES AND PAllIPHLETS

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Beach and Pool, May 1933.
Water Basket Polo, by E. Gordon Bowman.

The Parents’ Magazine, June 1933.
What Is Worth While Recreation? by Joshua

Lieberman.
Enchanted Island, by Rose G. King.

New Jersey Municipalities, May 1933.
Play and Playgrounds, by Allen G. Ireland, M.D.

American Forests, June 1933.
Forest Theatres, by Emerson Knight.

Junior League Magazine, May 1933.
More Than Meat, by Weaver Pangburn.

Independent Woman, May 1933.
Leisure Time in Modern Life, by Howard Braucher.

The American City, June 1933.
Unemployed Build Two Roadways in New Orleans
City Park Extension.
A Parking Charge to Finance Beach Protection, Sa-

vannah Beach, Ga.
A Gift of Fine Magnolia Trees As a Memorial.

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, June 1933.
The Extra-Curricular Program and Leisure-Time
Training, by Gertrude Moulton, M.D.
Activities for the Playground and Recreation Pro-
gram, by Norman F. Kunde.
Leisure—Time Panel Discussion, by Frederick Rand
Rogers, Ph.D.

PAMPHLETS

Eleventh Annual Report, Recreation Department of Pas-
saic, N. J., 1932.

Annual Report of the Park Department for the Year
Ending December 31, 1932, Salem, Mass.

The Visual Fatigue of Motion Pictures
Amusement Age Publishing Co., New York City.
Price $1.00.

Annual Report of the Boy Scouts of America, 1932.

 

 

lustrated in diagram No. 4. A good disk to use
is a metal washer with a three-quarter inch cen—
ter. From a distance of 10 feet slide three metal
washers into the scoring area. In scoring use the
highest number each washer touches.

On a piece of cardboard draw a diagram, shown
in No. 5, making sure that the diagram is not
more than 8 inches in diameter. From a distance
of 6 inches from the edge of the diagram spin‘a
milk bottle top by holding the disk on top by the
index finger of the left hand and snapping it with
the thumb and index finger of the right hand so
that it will stop within the diagram. In scoring
count the largest number touched.

Using the same type diagram as in No. 5, from
a distance of 6 inches snap four small buttons

 
      

into the scoring area in the same manner as tid-
dle-de-winks are snapped. In scoring the largest
number touched is counted.

A game in which a simple spinner is used may
be made by setting a small handled pan within a
sauce pan. The two pans are placed on a num-
bered cardboard so that the handle of the small
pan may be used as an indicator to point to the
different numbers when it stops Spinning. Each
player chooses a different color button, spins the
handle of the pan and moves his color button on
a score sheet numbered from I to 100, the number
of the space being indicated by the handle of the
pan. At the end of the time allotted, each player
multiplies by live the number upon which his
button rests.

\Vhen these games are played by adult groups
it is well to place as many as possible on tables.

School Gardens in Detroit
( Continued from page 197)

score sheet on the basis of which flags are
awarded. A blue flag designates excellent gar—
den, a red flag, good garden, and a white, average
garden.

I. Arrangement and use of ground. . . .30 points
Are the rows long or are there short
rows and beds? Is there succession of
crOps to keep all parts of the garden work-
ing all of the time? Is the space wasted,
walks are not needed?

2. Cultivation and freedom from tt'eeds.30 points

Is the surface soil kept line and loose to
serve as a mulch to hold moisture and to
permit air to circulate through it? The
rows should not be billed. The surface
should be kept fairly level. There will be
less surface exposed for evaporation of
moisture. Keep all weeds out at all times.

3. Control of diseases and insects. . . . .20 points
Have sprays been applied early so as to
prevent rather than cure? Supplement
spraying by gathering insects and insect
eggs as they appear.

4. Crop condition . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .20 points

Has water been supplied in dry weather
to keep the cr0p growing? Soak the ground
around the plant once or twice weekly
rather than a light sprinkling each day.
Do not hoe crops when they are wet. Have
the plants been succored, such as tomatoes?

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100 points

New Books on Recreation

Summer Camps—A Guide For Parents

Edited by Beulah Clark Van \Vagenen. Child Develop-
ment Institute, Teachers College, Columbia University,
New York. $.25.

THIS \‘ALUABLE pamphlet has been prepared in an at-
tempt to present as far as possible a complete picture
of the kinds of provisions which a camp should make
for the adequate care and guidance of children. It takes
up the educational features, discusses creative ideas in
children’s camps, outlines some essentials of a creative
handcraft program, and offers some suggestions as to
how nature lore and games may be made creative chan-
nels. Other subjects discussed are Guidance in the Sum-
mer Camp, the Relationship of Home and Camp, the
Essence of Good Leadership, and Provision for Physical
Welfare. A bibliography and sources of information on
camping are given.

The Carpenter's Tool Chest

By Thomas Hibben. J. B. Lippincott Company, Phila-
delphia. $2.00.

N ORDINARY tool chest may seem a prosaic thing. But
the historical setting which the author, a distin-
guished architect, has given each tool makes this book
a delightful study. Under Mr. Hibben’s clever handling
the story of the humble carpenter’s tools becomes the
story of the human race. Aztec, Egyptian, Greek,
Roman, American—the entire pageant of man passes
through these pages. “It is an account,” one commen-
tator has said, “of how the woodworkers since earliest
time have shaned the world we live in.” The numerous
illustrations offered aid greatly to the fascination of the
story.

Selected Recreational Sports
(For Girls and Women)

By Julia H. Post and Mabel J. Shirley. A. S. Barnes &
Company, New York. $2.00.

N THIS BOOK an attempt has been made to present ma-
terial which may prove helpful in teaching some of
the recreational types of activities which are occupying
an increasingly important place in the school program.
Games have been selected which require small space, a
small number of participants and no specific costume and
from which a player may derive enjoyment even though
he has little skill. Eight sports have been chosen—deck
tennis, horsehoe pitching, Badminton, table tennis, shuf-
fie board, clock golf, paddle tennis, and tether ball.
Diagrams for the layout of courts are given, equipment
is listed and there are suggestions for its care.

Girl Scout Day Camps

Prepared by.Program Division, Girl Scouts, Inc., 570
Lexington Avenue, New York. $.20.

IN VIEW OF THE increasing p0pu1arity of the day camp,

this booklet which discusses administration, minimum
standards and waterfront safety, will be of special in-
terest. While it has been written primarily to meet the

needs of Girl Scout groups, practically all of the sug-
gestions offered may be readily adapted to the needs of

groups of all kinds. The booklet contains much valuable
information for the recreation worker.

The Right Book For The Right Child

Compiled under the auspices of the American Library
Association. The John Day Company, New York. $2.50.

THE BOOKS in this graded list of children’s books have

been selected and annotated by a subcommittee of
the Committee on Library Work with Children of the
American Library Association under the chairmanship
of Mary S. \Vilkinson. They have been graded by the
Research Department of the \Vinnetka Public Schools.
Here is to 'be found a composite buying list of books for
children, including a pre-school list of picture books and
books to read aloud to children between two and five
years of age, and books for children to read to them-
selves from the time they enter school until they are
ready for high school. Brief information is given re-
garding the content of each book. Publisher and price
are included. It would be difiicult to find a more care—

fully chosen or comprehensive list of books for children
than this volume offers.

American Red Cross First Aid
Text—Book

P. Blakiston’s Son 8.: Co., Inc., 1012 \Valnut Street,
Philadelphia. $.60.

HE AMERICAN RED CROSS has issued a new First Aid

Text-Book. This is not a revision of the old Text-
Book familiar to so many recreation workers but an
entirely new book with a new set of illustrations which
have been increased in number. Recreation workers will
want to add this book to their kits.

Social Work Year Book |933

Edited by Fred S. Hall. Russell Sage Foundation, 130
East 22nd Street, New York. $4.00.

HE sacoxn ISSUE of the Social W'ork Year Book
represents a decided expansion over the first edition
which appeared in 1929. Thirty new topical articles are
included and the Directories of Agencies which com-
prise Part Two are supplemented by an entirely new
list of public agencies, departments and bureaus which
are related to social work. The volume, of almost 700
pages, gives a bird’s-eye view of the many types of
social and civic services which are being performed by
private and public agencies in the field of health, de-
linquency, mental hygiene, progressive education and
many other types of endeavor. An article on recreation
tells of developments in the entire leisure time field
through the efforts of public and private agencies.
The Social W0rk Year Book is an invaluable source
of information not only for the social work, editor and

librarian, but for the layman wishing data on current
social trends and forces.

207

208 NEW BOOKS ON RECREATION

Games and Field Day Programs.

Compiled and edited by Eleanor Clarke Slagle. Pub-
lished by Department of Mental Hygiene, State of
New York, State Office Building, Albany. $.75.

This syllabus is designed to be of assistance to work—
ers in the division of physical training activities and to
other interested persons employed in the hospitals, the
schools and the epileptic colony of the State Department
of Mental Hygiene. Over 250 games and activities are
described in which adaptations have been made to fit
them for the use of thc patients. A number of special
day programs are included. All the activities have been
tried out with patients and known to be well adapted to
definite groups. The book has much to offer workers in

all branches of recreation.

How To Help.

Edited by Mabel B. Ellis. Published by National
\Vomen’s Committee, \Velfare and Relief Mobiliza-
tion, 570 Lexington Avenue, New York. Free.

This handbook represents a joint effort to interpret
social work in all its aspects, but particularly as it con-
tributes to the protection of human values during a
period when all such values are threatened by widespread
economic disturbances. Part One presents something
of the background, interprets the various forms of social
work and tells how the different services fit together in
community planning. Part Two suggests ways of getting
and using the facts, and offers a reading list. Part Three
is a listing of the agencies participating in the Welfare
and Relief Mobilization of 1932.

Miss Ellis has brought together in this handbook in
concise, clear form a vast amount of information about
the social problems to be found in any community and
the essential social services needed to meet them. It is
a timely and much needed contribution to the literature

of social forces.

Notable Swimming Pools and Guide to

Equipment and Supplies.

Hoffman-Harris, Inc., 114 East 32nd Street, New
York. $2.00.

A complete reference book on swimming pools is this
comprehensive volume which offers a vast amount of in-
formation to groups contemplating the construction of
pools. The first section deals with notable swimming
pools and contains illustrations and descriptions of pools
representative of the highest standards in the field, both
architecturally and from the viewpoint of sanitation. The
second section is a compendium of laws, rules and regu—
lations and presents committee reports on details of con-
struction such as runways and sidewalks, filtration, re-
circulating systems, disinfection and other features. This
section is followed 'by a number of articles on various
subjects by outstanding authorities. The final section

contains the guide to equipment and supplies.

Recreation workers may receive this valuable book .at
a greatly reduced rate.

Camps and Public Schools.

By Marie M. Ready. Circular No. 74. Office of
Education, U. S. Department of the Interior, \Vash—
ington, D. C.

A mimeographed statement giving information regard—
ing camps maintained or directed by boards of education
in city public schools and camps operated by various
public and private agencies for school children. “In gen—
eral,” states the report, “the camping movement in its
relationship to public schools is as yet in its infancy.
Its possibilities of deve10pment are unlimited. Within
the next decade many week-end and day camping excur—
sions will no doubt be included as a part of the regular
school work carried on in public schools and many sum-
mer sessions will be held entirely out-of—doors or in

camps.”

Track .and Field.

By Charles W. Paddock. A. S. Barnes 8.: Company,
New York. $2.50.

In this book the author, an Olympic champion and
world’s record holder, has set down clearly the funda—
mentals of track and field events. A complete summary
of all records is given, together with descriptions of out-
standing achievements. In the back of the book are to
be found ruled pages for school or college records and
pages for listing new world’s records as they occur.

Sweeping the Cobwebs.

By Lillien J. Martin and Clare de Gruchy. The Mac-
millan Company, New York, $1.50.

Dr. Martin, still a successful consulting psychologist at
the age of eighty, and her collaborator, Miss de Gruchy,
in this 'book tell in concrete detail how they have helped
people who dread advancing age to overcome their han-
dicaps, both real and imaginary, and how pe0ple can help
themselves. Of recreation and amusement the authors
say: “Real recreation and amusement act as wings to
lift us out of the humdrum of our lives and give us
inspirational stimulation to carry on daily living on an
ascending plane. . . . Too many avocations or hobbies
are only time passers, but those that are real and spon—
taneous to the individual are those that will furnish him
the conditions of unique pleasure in their pursuit and
give to his life a mental stimulation that will carry him
forward with renewed vigor, courage and hope.”

«The Adolescent Boy.

By \Vinifred‘ V. Richmond, Ph.D. Farrar 8: Rine-
hart, Inc., New York. $2.50.

This book, presenting as it does, the problems of nor-
mal and abnormal youth and tracing the history of ado-
lescence through the ages, will help recreation workers
to understand better the young people with whom they
are dealing. Personal experience and case histories add
to its interest for the layman for whom the book is
intended.

Officers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

OHN H. FINLEY, First ViCe-President '
OHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
OEERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAYUS T. KIREY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle. Pa.
W'ILLIAM BUTTERwoRTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARR, Philadelphia, Pa.
HENRY L. CORRETT Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUEEE DAYISON, Locust Valley, L. I. N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, W'est Orange, N. J'.
EHN H. FINLEY New York, N. Y.

UGH FRAYNE, New York, N. Y.
RoEERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
WILLIAM HALE HARxNESS, New York, N. Y.
CHARLES HAYDEN, New York N. Y.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City Ind.
MRS. FRANCIs DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J'.
GUSTAYUS T. KIREY, New York, N. Y. .
H. McK. LANDoN, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

OSEPH LEE Boston, Mass.

DWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.
J'. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTo T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIEEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Washington, D. C.
FREDERICK S. TITSWORTH, New York, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, {'R” Washington, D. C.
;. C. WALSH, New York, N. .

REDERICK M. WAREURG, New York, N. Y.
{21m G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

Rs. WILLIAM H. WoomN, JR., Plainiield, N. J'.

