A Glorious Time to Live

ESPITE sickening unemployment, despite the necessity of relief in the midst of plenty, this is a
glorious time to live!

Emphasis is changing from the accumulation of material goods to the consideration of
what constitutes abundant living.

President Roosevelt and Mrs. Roosevelt constantly use the phrase abundant living and have to
some extent given these words their former power.

Everywhere one sees such phrases as:

A Better Way of Living
A Better Basis of Living
More Meaningful Living
The Rational Enjoyment of Life

Adequate Living
A Well Balanced Life
Adventurous Living

The Right of an American Citizen as to Differentiation in Living
Dare to Live

Art of Living

The Art of Happiness

School of Living

A Pattern for Living

Gracious Living

What is the inner meaning of all this? All of us as a people are changing our sense of values.
In practice we have rated living as dependent on a prior accumulation of material things. As adults
we have been willing to steal a little living. a little culture. a little recreation when we thought it
would help us in accumulating material things—make us more lit for work. help us in attaining
security first. And now we are not so sure about the material things. College professors are telling
us that youth are n0t thinking so much in terms of quickly obtaining large salaries: that they want
a measure of security and a chance to live as they go along: that they are attracted to adventurous
living in the subsistence homestead!

Again what is it that is taking place? What is the change? Why is it a more glorious time to
live? Because there is a perceptible swing in emphasis toward living. toward human activity that is
permanently satisfying rather than to the accumulation of material things. The simple pleasure of
life. the creature comforts of life. the having of a well-trained and a well-disciplined body. the using
of one’s mind in many delightful ways—again have a place as before we became over-civilized. No
longer will we have as great a sense of guilt when we enjoy the smell of the sea. or of the new mown
hay right in the middle of the day that is sacred to work rather than living. Sounds. too. will have a
more accepted place. Again in many differentiated activities of body and mind we shall find our-
selves. our own nature as artists. as craftsman. as athletes. perhaps in a very small way.

In other words. with all there is to weigh us down it is good to be alive in days when there is
even a slight increase in emphasis on living. when we cease to have so much of our living vicarious
and take more time for recreation and living ourselves. It is good to be alive at a time when there is
so much youth can do to bring about a still further change in the sense of values. a still deeper
recognition of the eternal fact that enduring satisfaction is in self-activity.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

SEPTEMBER, I934

 

265

 

The Power of Play

By THOMAS A. STOREY, M. D.

Stanford University
California

"I urge the power of play in the
life of the child, in the games
and sports of youth, in the lei-
sure-time pursuits of maturity."

HE PLAY LIVES of children bring them their
T richest inter-related physical, emotional and
social experiences. Their play is their school
of physical education, of emotional and other
mental education, and of social education. It is
an intense school. No courses and no classes are
ever taken more alertly and enthusiastically than
those in the school of childhood play. No other
school educates so effectively or so permanently.
The child patterns his behaviors in imitation
of the behaviors of his parents and others in
the home, in the school and in the group with
which he plays. His behaviors are influenced, too,
by suggestion and by the discipline of home,
school, and playmates. These behavior examples,
these suggestions, these disciplines, may be in-
fluences that encourage the use of big muscles in
play, a joyousness in the game and a friendly re-
spect for other players; or they may emphasize
excesses or deficiencies of bodily activity, stimu—
late passions of anger, rage or fear, and stress
selfishness, cheating and cruelty.

If you observe the behavior of children at play,
without being observed by them, you may get an
insight into the sort of parents they have. You
may learn how their parents treat each other;
something about their health habits, good and bad;
their mental hygiene or lack of it. and their social
behaviors and misbehaviors. You may get a line

 

Courtesy The American Journal of Nursing

on the sorts of men and the sorts of women these
children are being trained to be and trained
mainly under the influences of parental example,
parental suggestion and parental discipline, your
own perhaps. We may not know it, but we par—
ents dominate the play lives of our children. If
we could look on them at play, we would see our—
selves as they see us.

The behavior of the youth of high school or
college age is indelibly marked by the experiences
of the child he was. His behaviors display signs
and symptoms with which the experienced ob-
server can diagnose his past and forecast his
probable future. Such an observer may rate his
parents, family, playmates or teachers by measur-
ing his physical, emotional, and social behaviors,
particularly in his games and Sports, and by the
same meaSUre nents the experienced observer may
forecast the adult he is likely to be

The other day while I was being amused by
my futile efforts to play a good game of golf, my
caddy told me of an incident that illustrates the
power of the child over the man he comes to be.
He reported that Mr. So and So missed a two
foot putt on a perfectly good green; that Mr. So
and So then promptly threw a tantrum, fiung his

267

268 THE POWER OF PLAY

iron into the air, cast himself on the green, kicked
his legs, rolled on the turf, and tore the grass in
rage.

Is there any doubt in your mind as to that man’s
play life as a child? His sportsmanship in the
high school or college? .Any doubt as to his be—
havior as a mate? As a parent? As a citizen?
What do you think his standards of leisure time
adult reCreation are?

Our mature behaviors—like those of Mr. So
and So on the golf course—are measurably de-
termined by the examples that we patterned after
in play as children and adolescents, by the sug-
gestions that dominated our play and by the
disciplines that governed it.

Thus we men and women are ruled today by
the experiences of many yesterdays. Our play
lives as children, the games and sports of our
youth and our recreations of early maturity are
among the most powerful—if they are not the
most powerful—of the influences that have de-
veloped and maintained our bodies, moulded our
minds and shaped our personalities, and of these,
the influences of greatest determining power are
likely to be those that dominated our play be-
haviors as children.

Your childhood experiences stimulated the
growth and development of your heritage of body
and mind. Those muscles of yours today that
serve you well or poorly every moment awake or
asleep, received their first training and condition-
ing in the first years of your life. The quality of
those experiences determined the basic physical
qualities of your youth and laid the organic foun-
dations of your maturity, regardless of the fact
that you and those who provided those experi-
ences for you probably did not know what was
being done and knew little or nothing of the de-
termining and controlling significance of these
experiences for your future.

That intelligent, educable mind of yours that
now serves you, well or ill, is a product of a long
education whose most important foundations were
laid in your childhood.

Your adult personality that gives you social
poise, makes you friends, enables you to do your
part in your group or community or even serve
as a leader among mankind—or fails in these
qualities—was determined in large measure by
experiences that stamped their imprint on the
beginnings of your social personality while you
were a child.

These desirable qualities of body, mind and
social personality, constitute my conception of
health. The physical experiences, the emotional
experiences, and the social experiences of your
first years — the years of your childhood -—com-
bined to produce a composite of health that is phy-
sical, mental and social; it is never less than all
three. The most powerful of the influences that
laid the foundations of your health were fnr-
nished by the experiences—good or bad—of your
play life as a child and your sp0rts as a youth—
or by a deficiency of such experiences.

Play is not the only power that determines the
foundations and achievements of health. The in-
fiuences that regulate, defend. or injure our lives
are many and they are interwoven. No one of
them exists alone. The power of heredity, of phy-
sical, biol0gical and social environment, and the
experience of heritage with environment, is a
composite power made up of many faCtors all
working for good or for evil. But the concep-
tion of play as a power that produces, improves.
maintains, defends or injures health—physical,
mental and social health—all three—is a proved
conception that has been established as one of the
basic principles of hygiene.

The diseases of decay that show the effects of
the wear and tear of our aging years and are
produced by the degenerations of such great
organs as the heart, arteries, and kidneys. head
our statistical records of annual deaths. These are
diseases that many of us believe are more com-
mon nowadays because of the lack of adequate
experience in vigorous muscular activity in child-
hood, youth and early maturity.

The annual increase in the number of people
w ho are temporarily or permanently sick mentally,
calls attention to the several causes of the mental
sicknesses that keep our physicians busy and fill
our hOSpitals. we know that the ungoverned
emotional excesses of the wrong sorts of child-
hood play are among the most powerful of those
causes.

These days of vicious leisure, social shame and
broken homes, of kidnapping, lynching, murder,
suicide, racketeering, of business cheating. politi-
cal dishonor and professional dishonesty—give
startling evidence of tragic deficiencies and de-
fects in the foundations of the social health of our
people. The formation of those unwholesomc
anti-social personalities whose behaviors damage
and destroy health and life, begins too often, if

(Continua-d on page 304)

l

A Community Children's Theatre

By BEATRICE ARLINE JONES

1TH a brilliant future

before it, the Palo

Alto Community Chil—.
dren’s Theatre last Septem-
ber successfully inaugurated its first season in the
interesting new civic theater in Palo Alto by pro-
ducing “Beauty’s Beast,” a four-act play ar-
ranged from the fairy tale of similar title. Their
director is Hazel Glaister Robertson, a member
of the staff of the City Recreation Department
which is responsible for the maintenance of such
activities in Palo Alto.

From the opening lines of the play to the im-
pressive wedding procession of Beauty and her
princely Beast, with the finale scene before an
altar bedecked with exquisite white blossoms, the
large audience, composed about equally of chil-
dren and adults, listened and watched with rapt
admiration as the youthful actors and actresses
moved across the stage with almost incredible ease
and spoke their lines as simply and clearly as if
they were on the playground surrounded by
friends and familiar objects.

In October they presented “Silver Caverns,” a
gossamer fantasy with mermaids and sea urchins,
followed in November by a dramatization of the
old story of “Hansel and Gretel,” so augmented
that it employed a cast of fifty children. Their
December play was a Christmas pageant called

Community Center Commission

Palo Alto, California

“Star of the Sea,” whose
gentle beauty and utter sim-
plicity enthralled c r o w d s.
January brought “Seven
Come Eleven,” a delightful comedy of the co-
lonial South, with a comparatively small cast of
fourteen youngsters, but many participated in
“The Jack-in-the-Box Revue,” which was pre-
sented in February.

About eighty children and young people, rang-
ing in age from five years to those who are in
junior college, are now rehearsing for the March
production, “The Land of Cards,” musical ex-
travaganza in two acts, by Chester \Ving Barker,
a local playwright and composer.

Joyous abandon and real pleasure in acting are
always present in plays given by this group, and
all traces of self-consciousness are thus erased
from the individual performances so that repeated
curtain calls from a packed house fail to shake
the poise or natural nonchalance of the youngsters.

Costumes always have an important place in
children’s plays, because the illusion is not com-
plete for youth without some token of appropri-
ate apparel, be it only one feather for an Indian,
a bit of cotton to represent a rabbit’s costume, or
a piece of torn lace for a princess. These cos—
tumes are paid for out of the proceeds of the

(Continued on page 305)

The Witch Moag with six of her "60w" helpers,
ln uBeauty's Beast" presented lost September.

Candy house setting designed by Walter Newcomb
for "Hansel and Gretel, one of the productions.

 

What Are Education Frills?

By MARVIN S. PITTMAN, Ph. D.

Director of Laboratory Schools
Michigan State Normal College

HERE ARE CERTAIN economic and social condi-
T tions in America today which are basic to all
educational organization, administration, cur-
riculum and methods of instruction. Before we
can say what are “fads and frills” of present-day
education, we must know the life of the people
who are to be educated.

Our social and economic life is in constant
change, affected by many forces—inventions, dis-
coveries, domestic and foreign thought and condi-
dons—“influences of a thousand sorts. Among
these are four which seem to me more potent at
present than all others. They are the following:

1. America has become an urbanized nation.
Approximately two-thirds of the nation's people
now live within the corporation limits of cities and
towns while there were fewer than 5 per cent who
so lived when we became a nation a century and a
half ago. Besides those who live within urban
limits, all of our people have become urbanized in
thought and in social and industrial practice.

2. America has become a mechanized nation.
The simple home industries, characteristic even
today of many other nations and so characteris-
tic of our own a century ago, have passed into ob-
solescence, and with their passing have gone the
inventiveness, the many-sided skills, the initiative,
and the self-reliance and self -sufficiency so charac-
teristic of the pioneer American. Machinery,
usually large machinery, corporation-owned and
corporation-managed, now fabricates practically
all the things that we consume.

3. America has become a land of employers,
employees, public servants, and public wards.
America is no longer a nation of independent,
self-sustaining families. Practically everyone is a
part of some vast economic system—private or
public. His particular task, his working schedule,
and the size of his income are determined by

270

We hear much these days about
[ads and frills in education. In
this article, which appeared

originallv in the Journal of

Health a'mz Physical Education,

Dr. Pittman defines the educa-
tional frill. What he says will
be of interest to recreation
workers as well as to educators.

 

someone else. Not only have the commodities
which we produce become standardized, but the
workmen who produce them have also. Sameness,
monotony in type of work, and mediocrity of ef-
fort for the average American laborer have be-
come outstanding characteristics of his daily toil.
Like the soldier in the battle line, it is not his to
ask why. Someone else has conceived the pur-
pose, and has drawn the plan. It is for him only
to follow the orders, do as he is told, and stick to
his assigned routine. Day in and day out he does
his monotonous, unintellectualized, unspiritnalized,
unconnected task. \Vhen he will be “laid off” and
when he will be “put back on,” what his income
will be, and what he can plan with any sense of
security for himself and his family, are some of
the uncertainties which make his life a hectic
existence.

4. America is now, and will become much more
in the future, a land of tremendous, unorganized
idleness for millions of its people, or else it will
be a land of orderly leisure for all of its people,
depending upon our sense of justice and its legal
application to our industry. The efficiency of our
machinery makes this inevitable.

These four great social and economic facts of
our present-day life present problems of such
magnitude to our nation in general and to our

statesmen and our educators in particular that

nothing less than the best thought and service of
all will be able to conceive and to develop the
ways and means by which to make wise adjust-
inents. It is clearly manifest that in the future the
schools must be so adjusted in curriculum, or-
ganization, physical equipment and administration

WHAT ARE EDUCATION FRILLS? 271

that they will properly educate a nation of people
(I) who live in cities or are dominated by urban
conditions and products, (2) who labor and live
as an integral and an inextricable part of a ma-
chine economy, (3) who are employees—hired
persons—in an industrial society, (4) who, if we
use our social intelligence, will have short hours
for work and long hours for leisure.

Plainly, to educate children in such an environ-
ment and under such conditions, in such a manner

5 to prepare them for effective living in the in-
evitable America of tomorrow is a task of gigantic
proportions.

To do so we must have a bifocal and dual—pur—
posed school. and at the same time we must have a
school that will see the life of the future in its
two phases—short hours of regimented labor and
long hours of unregimented leisure. We must
have a school that will prepare for both of these
phases of life.

To do this effectively will require much of re-
organization in school machinery, in curriculum,
in methods of instruction, in teaching facilities,
but most of all, in educational philosophy. Our
philosophy must prepare us to understand what
we are doing and why we are doing it.

In the future we must ask—everyone must ask
-—not only the philosophers in our schools of edu-
cation, our school superintendents, and our build-
ing principals, but our classroom teachers, our
parents, our taxpayers, the children in the schools,
and the man in the street—all must ask and must
answer the question “what is this education for?
“fill it serve the purpose for which it is intended?
Is this the best way to secure the education that
we must have in the future?”

The honest and intelligent answering of
these questions will require us to do two
things:

I. To read much, investigate much, dis-
cuss much, think much, come to know
much of the present—day economic and
social order, and to practice much under
clinical conditions in order to be able to

A corner of the beautiful Shakes-
peare Garden created by Donald

Garden, Superintendent of Parks,
in Memorial Park, Oklahoma City

fit the product of our schools into industry as
efficient workers. "a

2. To learn much through observation, partici-
pation, and investigation of the interesting, joy-
ous, and beneficial ways by which to spend leisure
time so that we and society may be benefited by
the leisure.

I have little doubt but that we shall apply our-
selves with intelligence and vigor to the hrst of
these questions—the vocational question. If we
do, we shall make large and radical changes in the:
method and content of vocational education. The,
social studies of a rich, varied and practical type,
and an intelligent study of vocations with wise
vocational guidance will become the in-school
phase of such a course, while a rich capitalization
of the vocational facilities of the community will
become the practical or clinical phase of such a
course. Manifestly, the school organization and
administration must be such as to illustrate mass
organization of human beings and, thereby, to
habituate the students of the school to time sched-
ules, straight-line administration, piece work, mass
production, routine, and all of the other things so

characteristic of our urbanized and mechanized
life.

What of Leisure?

\Ve are likely to prepare for the second phase
of our life—leisure—with less intelligence, less
vigor, and less realization of its tremendous im—
portance. 'We are likely to think that common
sense and individual initiative will take care of
leisure time. It wit! do so provided the right
know/edges, ski/Is, appreciations, and attitudes

 

Park Department, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

272 WHAT ARE EDUCATION FRILLS?

 

Courtesy Amrriran Journal of Nursing

have been established in the individual before the
bulk of leisure time occurs. \Ve must bear in mind
that most of the vocations of the future will be
directed, superimposed, and they will require lit-
tle purposing and planning by the persons who
execute them, but the aoocations will be very dif-
ferent. They will be self-chosen and self-directed.
Relatively, then, it will take little education for
the vocational preparation but much education for
avocational efficiency.

In the past we—the public—have not thought
about our leisure. we have interpreted it too
narrowly. \Ve have thought of it as a week’s
vacation in the summer or merely as a few
Saturday afternoons and a few legal holidays.

\Ve have not considered it as our problem.
\Vhatever problem there was to it has been con-
sidered the problem merely of the playground
director, the Scout leader, the one person whom
we had hired for that purpose, or of the one per-
son who engaged in such activities on his own
initiative only because of his own peculiar per-
sonal eccentricity. This conception of leisure
time, its possibilities and its problems. is now an
outworn, impractical conception. yes. even more—
it is a socially idiotic and criminal conception. In
the future, leisure time is going to become even
more than it is now—and now it is great enough
--one of our greatest social liabilities or social
assets.

What shall we do with our leisure time and how
can we prepare our people to capitalize it is, in
my humble opinion, the greatest question before
America today. How we will use our leisure in
the future will be a much more important ques-
tion to society than how we work. Our leisure

We are beginning to
see a revival of old
arts. The school can
have a large part in
developing an appre-
ciation of beautiful
craftsmanship.

will express the real ideals, personal and social
habits of the nation.

You, who have worked so long and so intelli-
gently in this Field of activity, have learned that—

1. Man must be taught even to play, that when
left to himself he is an idler.

2. He must be taught what to play, that is, he
must be given an intellectual basis with which to
play: he must understand the game before he can
get much satisfaction from it.

3. He must actually participate in the game to
fully appreciate it. It must become a part of the
nerve life and muscular habit of his body before it
mcans much to him.

4. He must learn to play while he is young if
he is going to relish play when he is mature.
Where is the person who learned with delight to
fish, hunt, play ball. dance, or participate in other
forms of physical sport, golf excepted, after the
age of thirty? The.enjoyn1ent of any game de-
pends largely on the degree of skill with which it
is performed and it must be realized that skills
are acquired in youth.

\Vhilc teaching in the University of Mexico
three years ago, I observed the operation of a
physical education program directed by a splendid
type of Mexican citizen and educational leader
who was a graduate of the University of Texas
and of the lnternational Y.l\l.C.z\. Collcge at
Springfield. He was doing little less than the mar-
velous in the re-creation of the play life and the
capitalization of the leisure time of Mexico. The
children, the youth. and even adults were all Fund-
ing leisure a new and far richer possession be-

IVHAT ARE EDUCATION FRILLS? ' 273

cause of the new and delightful uses to which it

could be put. Such a service can and should be _

rendered by physical education in all nations.

What has been done and is being done with
physical education can be done and must be done
with other subjects of the curriculum. \Ve must
see their new possibilities and use them to new
and richer ends than in the past. The worth—
whileness of subjects in the curriculum of the
future must be judged by one of two standards:
(I) to what degree does it facilitate earning a liv-
ing? or (2) to what degree does it make leisure
time wholesomely enjoyable?

\Vhen we apply these tests, it means that we
shall cease studying geometry, algebra, physics,
chemistry, Latin, and German because they are
necessary to get into college or to get a diploma
and get out of college. \Ve shall study them only
provided and only to the extent that they will
help the person who studies them to earn efec-
tir'ely or to live richly.

The application of these purposes would not
mean that we would study less of science. It
would mean that we would study much more sci-
ence. The study of science would become the
hobby, the obsession of many children. Instead
of studying one book which they would hate and
would burn on the day the course was finished,
they would read, study, devour volumes dealing
with science——-all of the sciences. They would
acquire personal libraries on science and treasure
their books as priceless possessions. Instead of
thinking of a room in a building or a building on
a campus as the only repository of science, they
would then recognize the great out—of—doors as
the best laboratory and the greatest of all reposi—
tories of science. Every mountain and every
gorge would be a page in nature’s geology; every
tree and every flower would be a living picture in
the latest and best book on botany; every brook
would be an aquarium; the falling rain, the shoot-
ing star, the rainbow in the heavens and the
lengthening shadow at eventide would be an ever
present laboratory of physics ; the magic powers of
chemistry would be seen in the fermentation so
abundant in nature; and every night would spread
out before the wondering gaze of the learner the
awe-inspiring and inexhaustible encyclopedia of
astronomy.

\Vhile I think that physical education workers
have been the leaders in this field of capitalizing
leisure time, I do not believe that physical educa-
tion workers, in general, have sensed the great

possibilities of the activity for which they are re-
sponsible. Group games and athletic contests have
their place in the life of youth, but too great a
stress is placed upon the winning and too little
upon the playing. \Ve have the world’s best foot—
ball, baseball, and basketball teams, but the play-
ers are “shooting stars” who soon pass from the
firmament of physical activity. In general, our
people play only when there are shouting throngs
on the bleachers and good gate receipts. So long
as this is true, physical education directors can
hardly justify their salaries or the support of in—
telligent citizens in a democracy.

The difficulty with our physical education pro-
gram is that it depends almost entirely upon the
actual physical presence of the physical director
himself. The true function of the teacher and the
physician is to make themselves unnecessary.
This the physical education director in America
has not yet done. When he leaves the activity
ceases. The men and women of England and
Germany and of much of Europe in general are
physically active. They walk for miles daily, every
week—end and every holiday. Our American men
and women do not. OUr school sports have not
carried over into life practices. Until they do, we
must say that even physical education is guilty of
the evil so common to all American education—
the evil of immediacy. The fraternity of physical
educators owes it to America to teach physical
education so that the knowledges, skills, apprecia-‘
tions, and attitudes which they seek to develop
will not cease with awarding the merit badge, the
letter, the sweater, and granting the loving cup
and the college diploma, but will persist through—
out life, maintaining physical vigor and zest, men-
tal relaxation, and spiritual refreshment. The
regular educational program of physical education
offered in the schools should be but the beginning,
the initial stages of a program far more rich, far
more varied that would be pursued throughout life.

What is true of science and physical education
could be true, should be true, would be true, of
music, of art, of industrial art, of literature, of
history, of almost anything and everything of—
fered in the curriculum if we could and would
but get the true purpose of it clearly understood
by all who are interested in effective public edu-
cation and get them all to see how the program
can be best advanced. The entire field of the
world’s knowledge would become the available cur-
riculum ; numerous activities would be stimulated,

(Continued on page 306)

Modern Principles of Education

for

Leisure Time

HE DEPRESSION is proving to
T us that problems growing out
of increased leisure time are exceedingly
grave ones. Millions of unemployed are “lost”
with their leisure time. As a result of the passing
of the American frontiers to which the excess peo-
ple could migrate, the modern technological pro-
cesses and the invention of machines displace men
and shorten the hours which they must work, the
sixty-hour working week is fast giving way to the
forty which still fails to provide sufficient employ-
ment to the army of workers. For the first time
in history, we have developed a civilization in
which man is blessed with sufficient leisure time
to do things which should promote his general
welfare and that of others. He now has time to
attend symphonies, read extensively, paint pictures,
study art, converse with nature, and otherwise re-
create himself. In general, however, the things
which he does during leisure time are a sad dis-
appointment. 'Instead of actually improving and
recreating himself during leisure periods, he often
wastes them or even slowly destroys himself
through dissipation.
i'ew would agree that Americans have followed
the words of their father who advised us to let
our recreations “be manful not sinful.” Our great
problem today is to create a civilization that does
not degenerate because its citizens do not take ad-

vantage of the opportunities of
leisure time. Hundreds are

By DANIEL P. EGINTON

and means before we can formu-
late a program. The following
principles are suggested as guides for a sound
program.

Some Guiding Principles

1. Preparation for worthy use of leisure time
should be an outcome of all educational activities,
not a separate course or something added to the
regular school program. There has been a ten-
dency at times to speak about “training for the use
of leisure time" as though we had a special lei-
sure time faculty which should be exercised and
developed through some special technic which has
never been clearly worked out. Such a procedure
is faulty because the things which we do dLIring
leisure time are determined by all our habits, at-
titudes, interests, wishes, opportunities, and ca-
pacities. It follows, therefore, that it is quite im-
possible to help persons educate themselves to use
leisure time profitably except through more ef-
ficient realization of all the purposes of education.
There are no short cuts or quick recipes which the
schools can use satisfactorily. The best prepara-
tion is' a good school system where pupils are de-
veIOping varied, permanent interest and skills in
the creative arts, reading, sciences, and what-not,
an understanding of the things one may and
should do during leisure time, and identifying

themselves with some worthy
dominating purposes.

voicing the need of training
children for the use of leisure
time, especially through the
use of physical activities. Their
means or programs, however,
are often vague, confused, and
sometimes quite meaningless.
\Ve need a detailed analysis of
the specific problems involved
and a statement of guiding
principles and definite ways

274

Dr. Egiuton, Assistant Supervisor
in Research aml Finance, Connect-
ieut Board of Education, suggests
here not a special leisure time
faculty in the sehool to train pu-
pils in the use of leisure, but a
school program through which
they will develop varied, perma-
nent interests and skills in the ere-
ative arts, reading and other suh-
jeels. lle presents in this article
some guiding principles to help in
the formulation of such a program.

This does not mean that it is
not desirable that there be a
special period or time when the
problems or experiences per-
taining to leisure time should
not be systematically checked
upon and dealt with in an ef-
fective manner. Dr. Goodwin
Watson even goes so far as to
propose that in the reorgani-
zation of secondary schools

MODERN PRINCIPLES OF EDUCATION FOR LEISURE TIME 275

_|I'"- ’.

. t
’
lg, .

. J
I' -.-.

i

 .3 ‘
... II...
‘;lf}g.  _ a

It is only through the
combined efforts of all
community forces that
adequate Facilities and
activities are provided.

there should be a
s p e ci al department
which he calls that of
recreation. His analy-
sis of the activities
which might be car-
ried out in this depart—
ment is most chal-
lenging:

“A Department of Rec-
reation would be con-
cerned with a variety of
thii gs peOple want to do to make life enjoyable. Students
would learn enough of the fundamental skills of running,
dancing, skiing, tennis, bridge, and the like so they should
not have to make up excuses when they are invited to do
these things. They might practice remembering and tell-
ing stories, and learn how to dress in order to be at ease
in a group. Some would want to try block printing,
others would work in the music field; some would like
to make an aeroplane, or build a camp in the mountains;
many would like to read what they want to read. Some
would want to read detective stories; some would like to
read Browning; but let us not have them pretending to
like something they do not enjoy. Some will find their
recreation in mathematical activities—which are much
more fun than cross-word puzzles. . . . I should like them
to find the relationship of these recreational activities to
their daily work, in such a way that they can carry a
play attitude into their work rather than this preposter—
ous seriousness that business men carry into their oflices
to be compensated for on the golf course. Similarly, with
art; we might have less isolation in museums and more
integration with things like hamburger stations, street
cars, and the general architecture of our civilization.” 1

Such a department would probably be desirable
in many of the over-academic secondary schools
of today for pupils who have never learned many
of these things in the elementary schools. As a
general policy, however, it overlooks the facts that
the elementary schools can and should accomplish
many of these things and also stresses faulty
specialization and compartments in the curricu-
lum. There are a number of special recreational
activities which are not suited to children below
the age of adolescence. These should be taken up
in a well adjusted high school curriculum.

 

C ouortesy Los Angeles Playground and Recreation Department

2. Pupils should begin to learn how to use lei-
sure time profitably as soon as possible. \Vhen
educators speak about leisure time they generally
refer to the adult working class, forgetting that
pupils in school use approximately forty per cent
of their time in leisure activities. Too few schools
recognize their opportunities and responsibilities
for helping children right now to expand rather
than to thwart personality development when they
are free. Obviously, the best way to guarantee
proper use of leisure time tomorrow is proper
use of it today. The schools which are really try-
ing to develop the whole child must check care-
fully to determine just what are his out—of—school
experiences and interests, how these promote or
retard desirable growth, and how they may be
improved, harmonized, and made supplementary
to those which are considered valuable experi-
ences of the curriculum.

3. l'Vltolesome recreational centers, grounds,
and equipment and play opportunities should be
provided. One of the most essential parts of a
balanced, integrated program of recreational ac-
tivities is that of providing the centers or means
needed to offer children suitable recreational op—
portunities. It is quite impossible to keep many
children off the streets, away from pool halls,
questionable dance halls, and licentious shows un-
less other places are provided for them to play
games and enjoy other forms of recreational ac-
tivities. The schools can accomplish much toward

iii-Watson, Goodwin, “A New Secondary School," Progressive
Education, 8:301-10: April 1931.

276 tlIODERN PRINCIPLES OF EDUCATION FOR LEISURE TIJIE

providing the necessary playgrounds, reading
rooms, parties. perhaps shows, and whatnot, but
since this must be a community program, all of
the combined efforts of all community agencies
and organizations must be exerted to outline and
carry out an effective and complete program. The
resources needed obviously must vary in accord-
ance with the size and location of the town or
city and the natural resources such as rivers, hills,
and parks already available. Among other things
which are usually considered necessary are an out-
door playground, equipment for playing baseball
and other vigorous games when weather permits;
indoor playing space and provision for such games
as bowling, ping-pong, and pool; libraries and
reading rooms ; skating rinks. and swimming pools.
4i PeopIe shouId Iearn
to ereate tnueh of their
own entertainment. \Ve.
must always remember
that man's greatest satis-
factions are those which
come from real intellectual
achievement. It is equally
true in the use of leisure
time. Other things being
equal, the greater the cre-
ative element the more en-
joyment and recreation,
providing it does not de-
mand too much vitality.
Thus, the personal hob-
bies which we develop are
among the best kind of
recreation since they pro-
vide many opportunities for
creative production. The weak-
ness of many of 'the present
vicarious recreational experiences (watching
shows and games, playing with commercial toys,
card playing, listening to radios, dancing, riding in
cars, etc.) is that they fail to challenge sufficiently
to stimulate creation which is so badly needed if
we are to develop a distinctive American culture.
Some of these forms of commercial recreation are
also of doubtful moral value. The practice of
boys and girls and also adults deveIOping their
own forms of recreation should also strengthen
the home so that it will become the center of com-
mon activities and common interests such as it
was before commercial recreation became so
prevalent in America. Perhaps this is one of the
strongest arguments for helping people become

 

The school should develop inter-
ests and aptitudes in line with
avocationol ond hobby activities.

more self-sufiicient and self-directive in the de-
termination of creative recreational activities.

5. It’eereationaI aetir'ities shouId be considered
as means and ends rather than merer as ends.
Ideally, man should be so well adjusted vocation-
ally that he would not feel that urgent need to be
released from something, to escape the disagree-
able, to compensate for some feeling of inade-
quacy, or to find means to make him forget. A
properly adjusted man needs no time or means of
re-ereation any more than a well-charged battery
needs recharging. He never becomes over fa-
tigued, bored, emotionally upset, or gets behind
himself ! Unfortunately, it seems many people are
so badly adjusted that vocation becomes the sec-
ondary and recreation becomes the primary object

of life. Here leisure time
is the end—the time to
make “whoopee,” to eat,
drink. and be merry, and
to seek sensuous entertain-
ments. There is much ser-
iously wrong when this
praetice is the rule and not
the exception. Occasion-
ally this may be desirable
to release suppressions and
etTect a good mental ea-
tharsis. L e i s u r e time
should be a time of doing
things which cannot be
done during regular work-
ing hours, of carrying out
recreational a e t i v i t i e s
which re-ereate man and
promote growth of the person-
ality. It should be both the
means and the ends—a com—
plete unit of living.

6. I’upiIs shouId euItiz'ate some recreational ac-
tivities rehich further the det'eIopment of rigorous
heaIth. People who do not have sufiicient oppor-
tunities to be out of doors during the performance
of the regular work should have at least one out-.
door recreational activity or hobby for each sea-
son which will challenge their interest, give them
pleasure, get them into the open spaces, and give
them exercise in accordance with their needs.
Participation in outdoor sports and games offers
one of the best of leisure time activities since it
promotes health. Therefore, schools should seek
to get boys and girls interested in games such as
tennis, golf, horseback riding, hiking, baseball.

MODERN PRINCIPLES OF EDUCATION FOR LEISURE TIME 277

and hand ball. These also have a good carry-over
into adult life. While the games of football and
basketball are sensational and popular, they are
subject to severe criticism because they cannot be
pursued by the student after he has been gradu-
ated. Schools should be equipped with tennis
courts so that pupils will learn to play tennis.
They also should sponsor outdoor hikes.

7. The schools should help pupils discover and
develop aesthetic interests and aptitudes. The
creative arts offer one of the finest types of recre-
ational experiences because they usually can be
studied alone and do not cost excessively. The
great emphasis on arts in the new schools is due
to the fact that they encourage self—expression and
also provide cultural activity which can be studied
with valuable returns during leisure hours. Thus,
the field of creative arts offers a means of pro-
viding at least one recreational activity for many
people.

8. The school should explore and develop in-
terests and aptitudes in line with avocational and
hobby activities. These may best be explored
through the activities of the curriculum. Thus,
pupils should be encouraged to participate in ac-
tivities of vocational significance such as those in
connection with the camera, art, handicraft, radio,
auto repair, music, and millinery, since these offer
some of the most favorable opportunities for
pupils to use their spare time profitably and pleas-
antly. This is a desirable kind of home work in a
modern school. These activities are often so in-
teresting, challenging, and worthwhile that they
are pursued even when not required. Many of
these are enjoyed throughoUt life and are an un-
ending s0urce of enjoyment for the adult, a fine
type of recreational or leisure time activity.

9. Leisure or recreational activities must be in-
dividualized or adjusted to the different interests,
abilities, and occupational pursuits. Some activi-
ties such as playing cards, going to motion pic-
tures, dancing, reading, listening to or creating
music, and attending lectures appeal to the ma-
jority of people and are accessible to them. Some
activities such as travel, golf, horseback riding,
sailing, going to the opera, and swimming may
appeal to the majority but are accessible to only a
small percentage of persons because of economic
limitations or inaccessibility of location. Some ac-
tivities such as hiking, nature study, writing, and
music are accessible to all but have an appeal to
only a limited number. Other activities such as
radio operation and photography appeal to only a

small percentage of people and are available to
only a small percentage. Through a thorough
study of the individual and his economic and
social background the schools should help the pupil
to choose his recreational activities wisely in terms
of his interests, needs, and capacities. Pupils who
should engage in some vigorous outdoor game but
who have no interest in it often can be encouraged
to participate in one in order to insure health even
though the activity may not be enjoyable at first.
Usually they find that their interest in suchian
activity increases with the increase in skill and
knowledge. They should not be forced but rather
coerced through the stimulation of an inviting
situation. Some pupils who have a tendency to
over-specialize or overdo a hobby should be en—
couraged to develop other interests in order to
avoid the thwarting social or health effect that
may result from overdoing some activity.

10. People should have several recreational in-
terests. One of the most important ways of mak-
ing friends is through common interests such as
playing bridge, bowling, golfing, discussing, enjoy-
ing the drama, and dancing. The person of varied
interests and skills is much more likely to be a
leader, liked by his associates, and live a fuller life
than the one who thinks that he does not have time
to waste in such trivialities as bridge, dancing,
games and sports. The misfit who cannot “get
by” generally develops a beautiful “rationaliza-
tion” that only idiots play cards, shoot golf, col-
lect butterflies, and attend operas. A wide variety
of interests not only furthers the growth of Un-
derstanding and personality and helps one socially
but it also makes it possible for one to find de-
sirable recreational opportunities in a variety of
different conditions—in summer, winter, in the
city, in the country, Monday night, Saturday
night, Sunday night, when in various groups and
when alone. This, of course, is most desirable and
practically necessary if one is to become socially
fit and adjusted in various recreational situations.
Some of these interests are even valuable for 0c-
cupational purposes so as to insure greater ad-
justability and economic security.

“Painting, sculpture, music, literature, dramatics
and the discussion of current social issues are
part of a reserve culture which we may now begin
to explore. In the years that lie immediately
ahead, more than ever before, a person will be
judged by the way in which he uses his free
time.”-——From Youth Inspects the World.

Folk Culture and Leisure

By PERCIVAL CHUBB

T. LOUIS has recently rounded Out a three
S week celebration of the opening of its new
auditorium and civic center with a national
folk festival, the first of its kind. This bold en-
terprise brought to the city from the hinterlands
an assortment of groups—Kiowa Indians, New
Mexicans, Ozarkians, Appalachians, Carolinians,
cowboys, lumberjacks, Negroes and others—to
present some of the fading folk arts conserved by
them. With these came a few folk-lorists to dis-
cuss some points of scholarship.

The festival scored a popular success. It was
on the whole a good show—novel, quaint and at
times sensational. But its more serious signifi-
cance lay in its bearing on the pressing problem
of developing leisure activities to fill the large in-
crement of spare time now being forced upon the
masses of laboring folk. How far does the solu-
tion lie in the recovery of these perishing forms
of folk culture which specialists are hastening to
record before it is too late? How many of these
entertaining items were more than museum pieces
destined for exhibit, along with antique furniture
and costumes, in our mortuaries of outmoded
treasure? And how many had a future for the
“new leisure"? Not that the antiquarian interest
in them is to be disdained, but it was obvious that
many of these lingering
folk arts assumed condi-

"The National Folk Festival served
a double purpose: it entertained
large numbers of people with lei-
sure time on their hands, and at
the same time it was the beginning
of an organization to enshrine in
the hearts of Americans native

American art while it can still be
found—while the people who have
known the old ballads, the tradi-
tional dances, the folk arts and

handicrafts, still live."9 —— Sarah
Gertrude Knott, National Director,
National Folk Festival, St. Louis.

 

recovery of the arts of folk participatiOn which
flourished in days when life was less hurried and
congested and exhausting than it is in these days
of “stepping lively” and “go-getting”; it is an
effort to replace the commercially provided
amusements which ask only an admission fee to a
movie house or the bleachers or the price of a
radio set. The issue is as between folk culture
and provided amusement; between active enjoy-
ment and passive; between amateur undertaking
and professional entertainment.

This issue is obscured by our misleading use of
the word "leisure." Is idleness leisure? ls aim—
less loafing leisure? \Ve confuse mere spare time
with the use of it to some humanizing purpose.
\Vith this usage we may
allowany fear "the men-

tions of life, forms of la-
bor and association which
are swiftly disappearing
under the greatly changed
circumstances of modern-
ized life; also that some of
them have little or no sur-
vival value partly for this
reason and partly because
they are crude and unpo-
tential.

Nevertheless, in a larger
view of the situation it is
a matter of recovery—the

278

“Front east and west and north and south
our groups came. Seventy mountain pco-
ple from Asheville, North Carolina, under
the direction of llascom Lamar Lunsford,
drove through the country in buses and
cars to give a demonstration of the square
dances which are still a part of the lives of
the people who live in the shadow of the
Great Smokies. They sang their traditional
ballads. Bringing their own scenery and
properties came the Carolina l’laymakers,
students from the Univcrsity of North
Carolina, who. under the. dircction of
l'ircderick Koch, appcared in dramas writ-
tcn and staged by themselves, which por-
tray the tragedy and comedy of their own
cotton liclds, milltowns and mountains."

ace of leisure," to use one
writer's phrase. But this
is obscuration. Instead we
should speak of the men-
ace of spare time and the
hope of leisure. Such hope
is that the mere fragment
of a man that finds exer—
cise in the routine and
highly specialized labor of
a machine age may be ex-
panded in fruitful leisure
to the dimensions of his
larger humanity, engaging

his faculties of creativeness
and admiration, of curios—
ity and exploration, as well
as finding an outlet for his
bodily energies and keeping
him healthy and wholesome
——literally whole—some, the
whole man. In other words,
the task we face is the con-
version of spare time into
leisure.

The recovery of lost in-
ducements to such creative
cultural use of spare time
was suggested by the rich
exhibit of folk crafts that
supplemented the stage ex-
hibits of the old leisure arts
of song, dance, balladry and
drama. \Ve lament for es-
thetic reasons the passing
of the handicrafts. But here
was the suggestion and

FOLK CULTURE AND LEISURE

 

279

tions, and so on. This link—
age needs recognition and
encouragement, and future
folk festivals may well give
a subordinate place to sur-
vivals whose interest is
mostly antiquarian, and fea—
ture chiefly the new devel—
opments that will serve the
new leisure in the modern
spirit, and especially among
the industrials of the towns.

Some of the more vital
survivals need just such an
injection of the spirit of the
future. We would not fail
in proper tribute to some of
these groups, especially our
nearest neighbors, the
Ozarkians. These entertain—
ing visitors were the pick of
successful competitors in a
regional festival held in

promise that they be brought back as leisure
activities. Here, in this craft display, were beau-
tiful products which many of us would prefer be-
fore their machine—made equivalents. “The ex—
pression of man’s joy in his work,” \Villiam Mor-
ris saw in such Howerings of beauty in the utili-
ties. VVhy should not this joy be recaptured by
gifted hands in the spare time which may thus be
dignified as happy and fruitful leisure? And so,
similarly, why may not the collective arts of song,

Springfield, Missouri. Their zest and joy were
contagious; the folk spirit was triumphant. They
were a refreshing antidote to our flat and wearied
urbanism. But need they live so exclusively on
their past? Is not growth, development possible?
The same may be said of the Appalachians. They,
too, one felt, needed the challenge to new creative
activity. From Chapel Hill, from innumerable
college and high school organizations, dramatic
and musical, should the leaders of this folk cul—

dance, drama, be recap—
tured by the folk of more
average endowment? Arts
the instruments of which
they either possess in bod-
ies and voices or may eas-
ily obtain at small cost.

A further suggestion
came of the participation
in the Festival of the Car—
olina Playmakers under
their leader, Frederick
Koch. Here was forward-
looking, creative work. It
was a reminder of the
many endeavors afoot to
organize folk effort in lit-
tle theaters (one in St.
Louis itself), folk-dance
societies, musical competi—

“From Daytona Beach, Florida, came a
gronp of Negroes under the leadership of
Zora Neale Hurston, whose presentations
of dances, work rhythms and games in-
cluded survivals of African origin. Defi-
nitely religious was a concert of Negro
spirituals sung by a St. Louis group of a
thousand Negro voices directed by C.
Spencer Toens and Major N. Clark Smith.

As a contrast there was the more severe
and ordered harmony of the Old Harp
Singers from Nashville who rendered ex-
amples of “white spirituals” from the
hymn-books of our fathers and great grand-
fathers eolleeted by Dr. George Pullen
Jackson, who appeared with the group.
And of still more aneient origin were the
fiddle tunes and ballads sung by Jilson
Setters, the Singin’ Fiddler of Lost Hope
Hollow, Kentucky, some of which have

been definitely traced back to the England
of Queen Elizabeth and SirWalter Raleigh.”

ture of the future come.
This, in turn, opens up the
question of how a new
education can meet its
greater responsibilities in
the preparation of the
young for fruitful leisure,
to avert “the menace of
spare time.” But this is
another matter.

One other point was
brOUght home, namely, the
importance of selecting the
best material for presen-
tation. Quality is a consid—
eration. Although this was
a groping first attempt
and can be bettered, it was
worth while. It has per—

(Continucd on page 307)

Libraries in Community Buildings

IBRARIANS differ in their opin-
L ions as to the extent of library
service. Some consider its
function to be confined wholly
to the reading and circulation of books. Others
look upon it as a strong socializing force in the
community, and promote lectures, classes, discus-
sion groups, anything in fact that will stimulate
intellectual growth. They are unanimous, however,
in their belief in the satisfaction books can give,
and in their endeavor to reach hundreds of poten-
tial readers who, so far, have evaded them.

Special studies have shown that books to be read
should be accessible, both as to housing and ar-
rangement on the shelves; should be available
when the instinct prompts; and should be guided
into the right hands whenever the need arises.

Lowered incomes and increased use of libraries
have focused attention upon ways and means of
achieving maximum service at minimum cost.
Consolidation of expenditures offers one solution
to the problem, and the housing of the library in
a community building is a specific example of how
a financial saving may be accomplished.

In a Park Field House

The idea of a library in a community build-
ing is not a new one. For many years branches

a":

Court”? American Library Association BeNn’iu

' 280

By SUSAN T. SMITH

Librarian, Public Library
Berkeley, California

 

and small town libraries have
been housed in community build-
ings of one sort or another; in
some instances proving definitely
unsatisfactory. as in school buildings, for exam-
ple. In other cases a noticeable increase in the
use of books by the people of the community
has been noted.

A brief survey has been made of some of
these community libraries with a view to
weighing advantages and disadvantages and
profiting from the experience of the librarians
in charge. It is obviOus that there is much to
be gained in certain sections of large cities
from a pooling of community resources by con-
solidating some of the recreational activities.
A successful example as it applies to the
library is the Camden Park Library, located on
the second floor of the Park Field House in
Minneapolis. Operating expenses are shared
with the Playground Department. The read-
ing room has been placed on the second floor,
thus removing one objection—that of noise and
confusion. Miss Countryman writes : "\Ve have
always felt that the combination was a happy
one. The children especially use the swim-
ming pool and playgrounds in summer and the
skating rinks in winter. \Vhen they are tired

One of the brench
libraries in Minne-
epolis is loceted on
the second floor of

the Cemden Perk
field house. 3 o o E
cepecity is 5 . 5 0 0.
w h i l e the seeting
cepecity is sixty.

LIBRARIES IN COMMUNITY BUILDINGS ' 281

of playing they come up
and settle d0Wn happily
with their books. The li—
brary to them is one of
their h a p p y recreational
spots, a feeling that is shar—
ed by their parents, who
also participate in the com-
munity pleasures offered in
the park.”

Doubtless many of these parents had never
developed a reading habit. Here, close at hand,
was a new form of recreation, attractive books
to read, and a friendly person to help select
them; accessibility, availability, and guidance
exemplifled. Minneapolis had two branches in
leld parks but one expanded so rapidly that it
outgrew its quarters and had to be moved to a
school building. The children continued as
patrons, but not the adults.

The North Berkeley Branch of the Berkeley,
California, Public Library has been housed for
several years in an old house in Live Oak
Park. A recent residence survey of the regis—
tered borrowers disclosed the fact that they all
come from the neighborhood immediately sur—
rounding the park, which is not true of other
branches in the system. Accessibility again
makes readers.

In villages and small towns many combinations
of community service are to be found. The best
known is that of the library in the women’s club,
sometimes supported and administered by the club
again, under municipal control. A librarian of
the first type writes that the library room is on
the flrst floor of the club house, club rooms and
auditorium above, and adds: “I flnd the noise
and commotion overhead most objectionable.
Club affairs take precedence over any claims of
the readers in the library.”

Association.

In a Municipal Building

Another combination, frequently noted, is
that of the library with some municipal or gov-
ernmental department. Only a tireless city
could make a reading room in the flrehouse de-
sirable, and yet this arrangement is quite com-
mon. One flre lassie custodian reports that her
patrons care more for newspaper reading than
for books, since they have to rush out so fre-
quently to “see where the fire is.” Branch li—
braries in the city hall, the court house (if a
county seat), or the farm bureau center, are

This article, which appeared in the
Bulletin of the American Library As-
sociation for June, tells how success-
fully libraries in a number of cities
are being housed in recreation centers
and community buildings of various
types. Thc article is reprinted here
by courtesy of the American Library

often in a most strategic
position and serve a wide
and varied n u m b e r of
readers.

A successful variation in
consolidation has been tried
by the branch of the Ala—
meda County Free Library
in Pleasanton, California.
Pleasanton is a small town in an agricultural
community, mostly of well kept orchards,
stretching up into the surrounding hills. The
\Vomen’s Club is a deciding factor in the com-
munity and maintained a free reading room
until the county library came to take it over.
The town authorities needed a place to trans—
act business, the club women had paid for a
lot upon which to build some day, and the li—
brary had expanded so fast that the small club
room would not hold all of the books or read-
ers. A compromise was reached among the
three groups, by which the club women deeded
their lot to the town fathers and the town fath-
ers put up a building on the property, so plan-
ned that the city offices are on one side of the
wide hallway, the branch library and club
rooms’ quarters on the other. Folding doors
separate the two rooms, and the friendliest
sort of cooperation exists. Each profits from
the close proximity of the other.

It is the community house with its manifold
activities under one roof that is best suited to
our study of economical service.

In Homestead, Pennsylvania, the Carnegie
Library is the center of recreational activities
in the community. Occupying a whole square,
the building houses, besides the library, an
athletic club with gymnasium and swimming
pool, a theater or music hall, and the boy
scouts and other organizations on the second
floor over the library. The librarian reports
economy in the management and operating of
the different enterprises, as, in addition to his
professional duties, he directs the club and the
theater. The coming together of all these peo-
ple, afternoons and evenings, does make for a
large circulation record, but the noise and con-
fusion overhead and on either side is not con-
ducive to quiet reading.

Pictures of the Tracy Memorial Building, at
New London, New Hampshire, show a lovely,
colonial house set in a beautiful garden. This .
is what the librarian writes about it:

282 LIBRARIES IN COMMUNITY BUILDINGS

One thing that appeals to numerous visitors is our lack
of an “institutional look," as some of them express it.
The building is a hundred-year-old landmark of the
town, remodeled within for present usage. The removal
of partitions between two rooms and a hall has given us
a lovely reading room with a fireplace, for actual use,
at either end of the room. A soft. dull rose is used for
the walls throughout the building and was a color found
somewhere in the old house. A hole and groove design
found under the windows has been repeated under the
windows all over the building. In this way the color and
design of the old days have been preserved. The wood-
work is white except in the assembly hall, where all
woodwork is stained brown. Hand-hewn beams in the
assembly hall add to the charm of the building. Low
posted rooms (as compared with the general run of
libraries) and hangings at the windows are pleasing. The
assembly hall has no hangings at the windows and is two

stories high, as a floor was removed in that part of the
building.

The wall board shutters. made to fit the windows of
the first story of the assembly hall and stained brown
like the wainscoting, make it easy to convert the hall into
a small art gallery or for exhibition purposes several
times a year. A radio and good small grand piano in the
assembly hall are useful to such organizations as the
\Vomen's Club, choral groups, and orchestra, meeting
here. For greater quiet in the library, when the instru-
ments are in use, I would advocate sound-proof parti-
tions in that end of the hall on the first and second
floors. Community interests bring people to the library,
library facilities may be adapted to affairs taking place
in the building, and thus the librarian's aim to serve the
public is aided by their presence there for some other
purpose at first. Nearness to the town schools makes
possible considerable use of the combined library and
community house.

Our garden back of the building is a lovely part of our
plant, for it permits out-of—door affairs for organiza-
tions meeting here, as well as fitting into our plans on
numerous occasions. It provides opportunity for outdoor

The exterior of the
municipei building in
Columbia, Missouri.
in which the library
has querters. This
combination is one
which is frequently
to be found in our
cities.

work connected with the children's room at proper sea-
sons of the year. The old apple trees provide fruit for
the basket at the library desk, where people are asked
to “take one as you go out,” which does away with the
problem of eating within the building. The flower beds
about the grounds provide for bouquets in the building
for several months of the year.

In a small town. with no bank, we are bankers as well
as librarians, having a storage vault and fifty regulation
deposit boxes, most of which are constantly rented. It is
a convenience appreciated by those who formerly went
to banks in one of four surrounding towns or cities for
deposit box privileges before our community building
was Opened in l926. Everything considered, I would say
that a combined library and community house in a small
town work out very well.

Fifty-live per cent of the population use the
Moorestown (N. J.) Community House library,
located in a garden 150 years old. The build-
ing, with its wings on either side of the central
hall, is admirably adapted for economical as
well as eiticicnt administration. The library in
the right wing has a book capacity of 20,000, and
seats from seventy to a hundred people. Since it
was moved into the community building six years
ago, the circulation has grown from 16,000 per
year to 80,000. In the spring and fall. when the
windows are open. glee club practice and the drum
and fife corps are at times disconcerting, but the
librarian feels that these are overbalanced by the
greater opportunity that is given to work in
close contact with every group and organiza-
tion in the community. That is the point stress-
ed by all of these libraries in community build-
ings—economy of operation is secondary to

(Continde on page 30?)

 

Court") Americas Library Association Bum-tin

Space Requirements For the Children’s

Playground

(Port ll)

Summary of Space Requirements
The following is a summary of the essential
space requirements for the children’s playground:

Facilities and Areas Essential :0 Square Feet Required

Physical education activities (schl. hrs.) 87,505
After-school physical education activities 10,000

Other educational play activities . . . . . .. 7,600 to 9,500

Facilities for additional play . . . . . . . . . .. 3,270

Additional game courts . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 28,100

Shelter house . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Oto 2,500

Beauty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6,000 to 10,000

Paths, Circulation and Safety . . . . . . . .. 7,000 to 15,000

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 149,475 to 168,375

(3.43 acres to 3.87 acres)

Other facilities. types of apparatus and game
courts are found on many playgrounds, but it is
believed that the preceding discussion includes the
most important playground features. It will be
noted that baseball, perhaps the most popular sport
among boys twelve, thirteen and fourteen years
of age, is omitted because of its large space re-
quirements. It is true that the space suggested is
sufficient to permit the playing of baseball by
young boys, provided the "
grounds are properly
laid out. On the other.
hand, if or while it is

0":-

Courtesy Recreation Department, York, Pa.

Because so much space is needed For baseball
Fewer children can be served in a given area.

played, the number of children who can use the
playground at the same time is greatly reduced.
Many playground leaders, recognizing the value
of baseball, permit and encourage its use, even on
small playgrounds. It is highly desirable that the
playground be large enough to permit the game,
althOUgh because of the danger of accidents, some
leaders believe it preferable to limit the playing
of baseball to the playfield and athletic field.
However, if the playground is properly laid out,
the addition of an acre to the minimum space sug-
gested here, would permit the “great American
game,” so popular among boys, to be played with
safety and without depriving other children from
taking part in the activities listed. Because of this
fact, the five—acre playground offers a much
greater attraction to the older boy than does the
playground of 3% or 4 acres.

The following list reviews the various features
that have been recommended, and their space re-
quirements. The approximate number of children
whom they can accommo-
date at one time if used
to capacity—designated in
this statement as child

 

283

284 SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND

capacity—is also.indicated. The importance of
these various features and their place in the play-
ground will be generally recognized. It will also
be clear that they apply to all “standard” chil-
dren's playgrounds and not to any particular type.
They represent the essential features which it is
believed should be provided in a playground in-
tended to serve the various needs of children from
5 to 15.

Sq.Fl. Child
Facility and Area Required Capacity
Apparatus
‘Climbing tree . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 100 6

Slidc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 450 6

‘Horizontal bars (3) . . . . . . . . .. 500 12

‘Parazontal bars . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600 12

*Horizontal ladders (2) . . . . .. 750 16
Traveling rings (stationary). . 625 6
Giant stride . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.225 6

Small Junglcgym . . . . . . . . . . .. 180 10

Low Slide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 170 6

"Low Swings (4) . . . . . . . . . . .. 600 4

“High Swings (6) . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.500 6

Balance beam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100 4

Scc-Saws (3-4) . . . . . . . . . . . .. 400 8

Junglcgym (medium) . . . . . .. 500 20

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7.700 122

Miscellaneous Equipment and Game Spaces
“Open space for prc-school

 

 

 

children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,200 25
Open space for games of
children 6-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10.000 80
“\Vading pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3.000 40
“Handcraft and quiet game area 1.600 30
Outdoor theater . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2.000 30

Building block platform . . . . .. 400 20

Sand boxes (2) . . . . . . . . . . . .. 600 30

‘I’Shclter house . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2.500 30

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21.300 285

Special Areas for Games and Sports

Soccer Field . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 36.000 22
Playground baseball (2)  38.125 40
Volley ball court . . . . . . . . . .. 2.800 20
Basketball court . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.750 16
Jumping pits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.200 12
IPaddlc tennis courts (2) . . . . . 3.600 8
Handball courts (2) . . . . . . .. 2.100 8
ITcther tennis courts (2) .. .. 800 4
Horseshoe courts (2) . . . . . . . 1.200 8

1Tcnnis courts (2) . . . . . . . . .. 13.200 8

IStraightaway track . . . . . .  7.200 10

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109.975 156

“Landscaping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.000
“Additional spacc for paths.
circulation. ctc. . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.000
Grand Total . . . . .. 151.975 563

(3.49 acres)

' This apparatus—at lent one of the unite—might he om tted on
piaygroundr which are not to be med in eonnect‘on with the
school phyrieat education program.

" These requirements may e eomldered a! a minimum and on
some playgrounds it will be advisable to allow more space or

rovide more iaciiitten.

t he Ihelter hon-e might be omitted where the essential tacitl-
ttes are otherwise prortded.

80m or both of these courts could be omitted where space is
exceedingly difficult to acquire. but with a Correspondtnu re-
duction in variety of service rendered.

 

The apparatus, equipment and game spaces on
the preceding list represent the eStimated essen-
tial requirements for meeting the various play
needs of six hundred children. In determining
these requirements the unsound and hazardous
practice of estimating the percentage of children
who can be expected to be on the playground at a
given time has been avoided, except in the case of
the school physical education features which can
be calculated with considerable accuracy. It is of
interest to note that if all these suggested features
are used to capacity. 563 children can be accom-
modated. A much larger number can be served
when the playground is used for highly organized
mass activities such as play days or festivals. Many
of the features, however. such as the theater. the
jumping pits and certain types of apparatus are
used intermittently and the wading pool is used
only for a brief season. Therefore it is probable
that there would never be more than 500 children
on the playground at any one time and that usually
the number present would be considerany less.

A playground of the type suggested is likely to
attract a much larger number of children of dif-
ferent ages and interests than do many existing
playgrounds which afi'ord limited facilities. \\'here
a playground has so little space as to crowd chil-
dren in their play or to cause long delays before
courts can be used. or where the variety of ofier-
ings is small. its drawing power is relatively
limited. Even so, studies have revealed many
small play areas that are used to the limit of their
capacity. although affording a limited program of
aCtivities. Competent leadership is perhaps the
most important factor in influencing attendance
at any playground. Coupled with adequate space
and facilities it is a guarantee of maximum use
in any neighborhood. The standard playground
offers Opportunities for cotnpetent leadership to
function etTectively. The dual conclusion is there-
fore: an area of three and one-half—preferably
four -— aeres is needed in every neighborhood
where the present or estimated future ehild popu-
lation equals approxintatel y six hundred children.
If they are to have on opportunity to May base-
holl. [it'e arres should be provided.

Service and Space Required for Various
SectiOns of the Playground

In the preceding table the space used for play
has been roughly divided into three sections: for
apparatus. for games and sports. and for misCel-
laneous facilities and play space. The functions

SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND

285

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Elisabeth, N. J.

of these three sections are
widely different and they
serve different age groups.
The apparatus is used pri—
marily by the children up to II or 12 years of
age, the games and sports area by children over
10 and the third section by children of a wide
range of ages, but primarily the younger ones.
A study of their relative space requirements'and
service possibilities reveals facts which are of
considerable importance in a consideration of
playground space standards. The following sum-
mary, based on the preceding table, provides a
basis for such study:

Jill's-c. Facili- S pacial Total
Apparatus tics and Games Play-
Area Play Space Area ground

Total space required

(in sq. ft.) . . . . . .7,700 21,300 109,975 151,975
Per cent of total

Space . . . . . . . . . .. 5% 14% 72% 100%
Child capacity  122 285 156 563
Per cent of total .

child capacity . . . 22% 50% 28% 100%
Average sq. ft. per

child -served .. . .. *63 *75 *705 270
Child capacity, per

acre . . . . . . . . . . . . *691 *581 *62 161

 

*These Figures do not allow for beautification or paths; conse-
quently more space should be allowed per child and fewer ch11-
rlre" can he served per acre than seems evident from the
Figures used.

A few facts are of striking importance. It is
apparent that each child taking part in organized
games and sports requires ten times as much
space as do the children using the apparatus or
wading pool or engaged in handcraft, low organ-
ized games, or other activities. In other words.
the older children require much more space than
do the younger ones for their active play. One-
half of the children can be cared for on 14 per
cent of the total area and more than 70 per cent
of them on less than one-fifth of the total. The

A wading pool, which requires comparatively
little space, can accomodate many children.

space allotted to appara-
tus is only one—fifteenth as
much as is used for or-
ganized games and sports.
Comparativer small space is needed for a play-
ground which provides only a restricted program
such as is suitable for the younger children. Even
allowing for landscaping and paths, each child us-
ing the apparatus and miscellaneous facilities
actually requires less than 100 square feet, the
standard adopted by the Regional Plan of New
York and environs for the children using, at a
given time, a playground for children up to 10 or
12 years of age.6 The average _amount of space
required per child playing, for the entire play-
ground, however, is 270 square feet. This is
a larger amount than has been recommended in
most standards worked out on the “square feet
per child” basis.

The comparatively low space standards adopted
by the Regional Plan of New,York and some
other groups may be explained by the fact that
they have been based primarily on studies of
small playgrounds which attract chiefly young
children and which have been largely devoted to
apparatus, quiet games, handcraft and other ac-
tivities requiring little space. Because of the com—
paratively small space required for and the large
number of children served by these facilities,
many authorities conducting small playgrounds
utilize whatever space is available for these pur-
poses, restricting attendance to the younger chil-
dren and omitting the game courts which require
much space. Such playgrounds serve 0a very use-
ful purpose but they do not permit the athletic
games essential to a well-rounded physical de-
velopment and to the opportunity for character

 

6. Lee F. Hammer. Vol. V) Public Recreation, p. 121. New
York, Regional Plan of l\ew York and Its Environs, 1928.

286 SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND

development through team play. In the second
place, they oHer little attraction or satisfaction to
children over ten or eleven years of age. Further—
more, because the space is needed for activities
such areas are seldom landscaped. It is highly
important, therefore, to recognize the fact, il-
lustrated by the preceding table, that such small
playgrounds do not adequately serve the needs of
II to 14 year old children, who comprise a large
percentage of the children attending the larger
playgrounds in many cities.

The Junior or Primary Playground

As pointed out early in this statement, there are
many neighborhoods where it is practically impos-
sible to provide a children's playground of even
the minimum adequate area. Under such condi-
tions the available space may best be developed
and used as a junior or primary playground to
serve the children up to 10 or 11 years of age. It
is obvious that such an area will not meet the
needs of all the children in the neighborhood.
The decision to limit a small play area to use by
young children should be reached only when it is
recognized that the municipality has a responsi-
bility for providing a Suitable and accessible area
elsewhere for the older children in the neighbor-
hood.

A review of the, procedure followed in deter-
mining space standards for the children’s play-
ground will afford an estimate of the space re-
quired to serve the needs of the younger group.
The following statement is an attempt to list the
facilities and areas which are needed in order to
meet the various needs of the children up to 10
or 11 years. In the neigh-
borhood which has been con-
sidered, this group will num-
her approximately 400. As
previously pointed out, the
number of needed facilities
and the space required for
them will vary in neighbor-
lroorls where the number of
children of this age group is
substantially different. In
compiling the list it is as—

It is most important thot
every playground make ade-
quate provision for a pro-
grom of constructive play.

suined that the playground will not be used by
older children. On the other hand there is no rea-
son why, if the area adjoins an elementary school,
many of its courts and equipment should not be
used during school hours under a scheduled basis,
by older children. At all other times, however, it
is assumed that the older children are excluded.

The junior or primary playground will require
the apparatus previously listed with the exception
of the high horizontal ladder, one of the hori-
zontal bars, the parazontal bars and the giant
stride. All of the miscellaneous equipment and
game spaces will be needed although with only
the younger children present or using them, some
of the facilities will not require as much space as
was previously suggested. This is especially true
of the outdoor theater because the young chil-
dren, while unlikely to give public performances,
need an isolated, preferably shaded, space, for
storytelling and simple dramatizations. The great-
est saving will be in the special areas for games
and sports. An open field for soccer and other
running games and events will be needed but its
dinfensions may be much less than for the older
children's soccer field. The playground ball dia-
monds, handball courts. straightaway track and
tennis courts can be omitted. Modified volley ball
and basketball courts may also serve for paddle
tennis. Less space will be needed for landscaping
and the allowance for paths. free circulation and
safety can be materially reduced.

The following table lists the essential apparatus,
equipment and areas, indicating the space re-
quired and the number of children who can be

served at one time:

 

SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND 287

Sq. Ft. Child
Facilities and Areas Required Capacity
A pparatns
Slide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450 6

Horizontal bars (2) . . . . . . . .. 350 8

Horizontal ladder .. . .' . . . . . . . . 375 8

Traveling rings . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 625 6

Junglegym Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180 10

Low slide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 170 6

Low swings (4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600 4

High swings (6) . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,500 5

Balance beam . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 100 4

See-saws (3-4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400 8

Junglegym (medium) . . . . . . . . 500 20

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5,250 86

Miscellaneous Equipment and Game Space:
Open space for pre-school

 

 

 

children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,200 25
Open space for games . . . . . . . .10,000 80
Wading pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,500 40
Handcraft and quiet games... 1,000 20
Area for storytelling and

dramatization . . . . . . . . . . . .. 500 20
Block building platform  400 20
Sand boxes (2) . . . . . . . . . . . .. 600 30

*Shelter house . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,100 25
18,300 260
Soccer field (100x150) . . . . . ..15,000 22
Volley—basketball court . . . . .. 3,750 18
Horseshoe courts (2) . . . . . . .. 800 8
19,550 48
Landscaping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,000
Additional for paths, circula-
tion, etc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4,000
Grand Total . . . . .. 50,100 394

(1.15 acres)

 

* The_shelter house might be omitted where the essential indoor
fac1lmes are otherwise provided.

A comparison of the preceding requirements
for the junior or primary playground with those
for the standard playground follows:

Junior or
Primary Standard
Playground Playground

Total area (in square feet)..50,100 151,975
Total area (in acres) . . . . . .. 1.15 3.49
Average square feet per child

playing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 127 270
Child capacity . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 394 563
Child capacity, per acre . . . . .. 343 161

It is evident that when a playground is de-
signed to serve children up to IO or II years of
age, less than one-half as much space is required
for each child using it as when the playground is
designed to serve children up to I5 years of age.
Furthermore the fact that the number of children
up to IO or II in any neighborhood is consider-
ably less than the number up to I 5 accentuates the
difference in the space requirements of the two
types of playgrounds. Consequently three times
as much space is needed in a given district for a
playground which is to adequately serve children

up to I4 or I5 years as for an area for children
up to 10 or II. This great difference in the re-
quirements for different age groups accounts in
part at least for the variations in space standards
that have been set forth. It is important, how-
ever, to keep in mind the fact that whereas 1.15
acres, if wisely laid out and administered, may
prove highly satisfactory for the play of young
children, it is wholly inadequate for the boys and
girls II—Is years old whose play life and needs
are a matter of equally vital concern to parents
and to the community.

Provision for Older Children Important

If these older boys and girls are to find a whole-
some outlet for their energies and interests, ade-
quate playgrounds must be provided. Police of-
ficials and juvenile court judges give testimony
as to the need for such areas. Shorty, sentenced
to Sing Sing for robbery, confided to \Varden
Lawes: “As kids we used to climb over the iron
fence of the school yard after school hours and
play ball or something. That’s how we got ac—
quainted. But one day we were chased. We had
to find another place to meet. There was only one
playground in the neighborhood and that was
always crowded, so that we had to wait our turn
to play or get into a game. After a while we got
tired of waiting and we decided to stir up some
fun on the street.” Shorty’s comment implies that
an ample playground might have prevented him
and his gang from landing in Sing Sing.

Additional testimony to the ineffectiveness of
small playgrounds in attracting and serving older
boys is found in the Rochester, New York, Rec-
reation Survey.7 An analysis of the three sec-
tions of the city in which juvenile delinquency
was greatest showed that there were only two
areas where ball games could be played. “Thus
the boys I2, I4 and I5 (the ages forming a ma-
jority of the delinquency cases) are greatly re-
stricted in participation in the vigorous activity at
this age.” Gilbert Clegg, City Playground Engi—
neer has stated:3 “In Milwaukee unless a play-
ground is large enough for playground ball, it
does not have a large attendance.”

Studies of playground attendance have indi-
cated that size and beauty are factors influencing

 

7. C. B. Raitt, A Survey of Recreational Facilities in Rochester'
N. Y.. p. 131, Rochester, New York, The Council of Social

Agencies, 1929.

8. Gilbert Clegg, Milwaukee Playgrounds, p. 8. Reprinted from
the American Landscape Architect, 1932.

288 SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND

 

Courtesy Lo: Ange-fer Playground and Recreation Department

the drawing power of
children's playgrounds.
That the children them-
selves recognize the im-
portance of these two features is evident from a
vote by children in the sixth, seventh and eighth
grades of seven Chicago schools in neighborhoods
of varying types. By far the largest number of
replies to the question, “What kind of a play-
ground would you like to have ?" were “A large
playground.” The number of children preferring
some type of landscaping—trees, grass. or shrub-
bery—exceeded that expressing any other prefer-
ence.’

A Comparison with Other Standards

How do the space requirements which have
been worked out in this statement compare with
other standards? To what extent are they in
agreement with requirements determined by others
who have approached the problem from varying
points of view? The following references indi-
cate a remarkable similarity in the conclusions
reached by different methods.

Perhaps the most widely quoted space stand-
art] for elementary school sites is the minimum of
five acres recommended by Professor George
Strayer of Teachers College, a nationally recog-
nized authority on school administration. 1" On
the basis of this standard, and allowing one and
one-half acres for the school building and front
lawn, three and one-half acres will be available
for the playground. The standard arrived at in

A great variety of games and other activities can
be conducted on this Los Angeles playground.

this statement is there-
fore almost identical
with that of Dr. Stray-
er, which has been
adopted by school authorities in a number of cit-
ies. In the previously mentioned study of 211
elementary school sites acquired in 1920-26 in 95
cities, the area of the median group was 4-5 acres.’

This same standard is recognized by the Re-
gional Survey of New York and Its Environs as
evidenced by the following quotations from its
report on Neighborhood and Community Plan-
ning: “

“The modern elementary public school, accommodat-
ing from 800 to 1,500 pupils, should have about five
acres of ground in order to provide a proper setting for
the building and give the pupils ample play space. If
there is an athletic field of two or more acres near by.
the school yard may be cut down proportionately, as has
been indicated in the previous section on recreation
spaces. 50 rarely is this the case, however. that the five-
acre standard represents what is considered most desir-
able by leading educational authorities, and it is being
met increasingly in actual municipal practice.

"In view of the above facts, the five- or three-acre

standard is not unduly high for application in a new sub-
division suited to a single-family residence section."

Professor Jay R. Nash of the School of Edu-
cation, ilew York University, who has had long

 

9. See What Kind of a Playground Do Children Want? Bul-
letin 1402. New York. National Recreation Association, 1926.

10. Georg-e D. Stra er, The Place of Public Schmll in Providing
Leadership in ‘iay and Recreation. PlayKround and Recrea-
tion. December 1929. p. 579. New York. .‘ational Rcereation
AIIOCIIIIOR.

11. Clarence A. Perry, The Neighborhood Unit. Vol. VII. Not-ll!-
lorhood and Community i'lanniol. D. 72. New York, Regional
Plan of New York and Environs. I929.

SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND 289

experience in administering school and municipal
play areas, has expressed the following opinion
with reference to the size of the neighborhood
playground which he believes should be the play

yard of the elementary school. 12

"Therefore, it is necessary to set down a minimum
sized yard for any school regardless of attendance, then
to increase the size of the yard when the attendance
goes "beyond six hundred.

“I should say this minimum estimate should not be
less than 400 feet by 400 feet or, in other words, 160,-
000 square feet. As an acre comprises 43,560 square feet,
it is immediater seen that even this area is less than 4
acres.

“Four acres should then be considered the minimum
sized school yard. As the attendance of the school in-
creases, the size of the play yard should be increased.

Probably a ZOO-square-foot increase per child would
meet the needs."

The Connecticut State Board of Education has
stated in its physical education manual:13 “At
least 300 square feet of play area per child should
be provided. Every elementary school should have
not less than three acres of play space.”

Playground space standards have also been sug-
gested by park authorities. Mr. L. H. \Veir states
in “Parks, A Manual of Municipal and County

Parks .” 1‘

“By actual measurement it can be determined that for
a playground for children
from live or six to fourteen
years of age, laid out on a
three-division plan and fully

Space for paths, safety zones around play areas
and landscaping is provided on this playground.

equipped . . . , approximately three and one—half acres will
be required as a minimum, irrespective of whether the

child pOpulation is one hundred or Five hundred within
its effective radius.”

Other estimates based on the essential use divi—
sions of the playground bring approximately the
same result. According to “Park Recreation
Areas in the United States, 1930,” issued by the
U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average
area of the children’s playgrounds reported by
park authorities in 218 cities was 3.95 acres.

Three types of “neighborhood playgrounds” of
2%, 5 and 10 acres respectively are suggested by
the Chicago Regional Planning Association. 15
The first affords only a very limited service. The
IO-acre area which provides many facilities for
adults, resembles the neighborhood playheld. The
5-acre playground approximates the type of area
discussed in this statement, the additional space
permitting greater provision for beautification.

12. J. B. Nash, The Organization and Administration of Play-

grounds and Recreation, 1). 70. New York, A. S. Barnes &
Co., 1927.

13. A Program of Physical and Health Education for Connecti-
cut. Grades IV, V, V1, p. 18. Hartford, State Board of
Education, 1931.

14. L. H. \V‘eir, Parks, A Manual of Municipal and County
Parks, 1). 23. New York, A. S. Barnes 8: Co., 1928.

15. Robert Kingery, Park and
Playground Standards and
Achievements in the Chicago
Region, The American City,
January, 1932, p. 98. New
York.

 

C ourtesy Lo: Angela: Playground and Recreation Department

290 SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND

In “Recent Advances in Town Planning,” 1'
Mr. Thomas Adams, noted city planner, discusses
standards for open spaces. In referring to “play-
grounds for children under fourteen years of age"
he states:

“The size of playgrounds for younger children must be
proportionate to the number of children living within a
reasonable distance from them, the maximum effective
area of each playground being generally considered to
be that contained in a circle drawn from the center of
each playground with a quarter mile radius. When
school playgrounds are available during out-of—school
hours, an area of from two to six acres may be consid-
ered as adequate for general purposes."

\Vith the increasing emphasis on outdoor games
and play in the school program, the tendency to
provide after—school athletic and other play activi-
ties under leadership, the passing of the vacant
lot and back yard, and the likelihood of greater
use by adults and young people of neighborhood
play areas, there is no doubt that larger play-
grounds will be needed and will be put to in-
creasingly greater use. They must not only af-
ford a variety of facilities but permit large num-
bers to use them at one time. Since the children,
especially the older ones, need activities requiring
large areas, since adequate playgrounds attract
and serve more children, afford possibility for
beautification, thereby not merely serving the
children better but enhancing rather than lower-
ing property values, and since many leading
school, recreational and planning authorities are
in comparative agreement as to space require-
ments, cities should recognize that a minimum of
three and one-half acres is required for an ade-
quate children's playground.

Adapting the Standard to Varying Conditions

In arriving at the space requirements of the
standard children’s playground, a unit of 600
children in the neighborhood to be served by the
playground was assumed. There are neighbor-
hoods or communities, however, where the num-
ber of children 3 to 15 is either considerably less
or greater than this number. Neighborhoods with
widely different present or probable future child
populations will not require the same amount of
playground space. However, the requirements as
to facilities and game courts will not vary directly
with the number of children. If a wide range of
opportunities is to be afforded the children, a
variety of game courts and facilities must be pro‘
vided, even though the number to be served is
comparatively small. For example if they are to

have an opportunity to play soccer or playground
baseball. it is necessary to provide a soccer field
or playground baseball diamond whether the
neighborhood child population numbers 100 or
600. On the other hand it is unnecessary to double
all features on the standard playground in order
to take care of a child population of 1200. Vary-
ing local conditions perhaps need to be taken even
more into account in determining what changes
should be made in the playground standards to
care for different numbers of children than in de-
termining the requirements for the standard play-
ground. Opinions would difTer as to which fea-
tures should be omitted in one instance and dupli-
cated in another. The following paragraphs sug-
gest what changes should probably be made in
the standard playground features in a neighbor-
hood with only 200 or 300 children and also
where 1,000 to 1,200 children are to be served.

A Pfaygromzd for Three Hundred Chiidren

There are some neigthrhoods‘or communities
with a present and probable future child popula-
tion of three hundred children, or one-half the
number the standard playground is able to serve.
The question arises as to whether a playground of
3% or 4 acres is needed to serve them adequately.

It must be admitted that since the playground
is for children of the same age range, the same
kinds of opportunity must be provided. It is pos-
sible, however, to eliminate some of the features
and to reduce the size of others without affecting
the usefulness of the playground. It should be
borne in mind, however, that in neighborhoods
where ample space is available, 3% or more acres
should be secured in order to permit more beauti-
fication and free play opportunities and perhaps
to provide a field for playing baseball. \Vhere
space is limited, however, the following revision
might be made in the list of requirements, when
only 300 children are to be served.

Most of the types of apparatus are needed in
order to provide for a variety of activities and to
develop various parts of the body. However,
there would be little loss in omitting the climbing
tree, in having only one adjustable horizontal bar
instead of three at different heights, in omitting
the parazontal bars and in reducing the number
of low swings and see-saws from four to three.
The area set aside for the exclusive use of the
pre-school children may be reduced slightly and

 

16. Thomas Adan-u, Recent Advances in Town Planning. Chap.
X. New York, McMillan C0, 1932.

SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND 291

This playground at Piedmont,
Caliiornia, has been design-
ed to serve a variety oi ages.

the space for running games of
6-10 year old children cut in half.
The requirements for the wading
pool, outdoor theater, sand boxes
and shelter house are consider-
ably less, permitting reductions
in the space needed. The block
building platform may be omit-
ted and this activity may be car—
ried on in the handcraft and quiet
game area. It is believed that
mostof the game courts and areas
are needed but one playground
baseball diamond and one tether
tennis court could be dispensed
with. Paddle tennis can be play-
ed on some of the other courts but one special
area for this game would be desirable. The soccer
field might be used for running events making a
special straightaway unnecessary. Proportionate
reductions may be made in the space requirements
for landscaping, paths, free circulation and safety.

The following is a list of the items suggested
for a playground to serve a neighborhood with
approximately 300 children:

Sq. Ft. Child
Facility and Area Required Capamty
Apparatus
Slide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 450 6
Horizontal bar—adjustable .. 150 4
Horizontal laddcr . . . . . . . . . .. 300 8

Traveling rings . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 625 6

Giant stridc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,225 6

Junglegym . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 180 10

Low slide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 170 6

Low swings (3) . . . . . . . . . . . .. 500 3

Balance beam . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 100 4

High swings (6) . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,500 6

See-saws (3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 400 6
5,600 65
Miscellaneous Equipment and Game Areas
Opcn Space for Dre-school
childrcn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,000 20
Space of games of children
6-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5,000 40
\Vading pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,000 25
Handcraft and quiet games  1,000 20
Outdoor theater . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,500 20
Sand boxes (2) . . . . . . . . . . . .. 500 25
*Shelter house . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,000 20
13,000 170

 

" The .shelter house might be omitted where the essential indoor
{aetlities are otherwise provided.

 

Sq. Ft. Child

Facility and Area Required Capacity

Special Areas for Games and Sports

 

Soccer field . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..36,000 22

Playground baseball . . . . . . . ..22,500 20

Volley ball court . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,800 20

Basketball court . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3,750 16

Jumping pits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,200 12

Handball courts (2) . . . . . . . .. 2,100 8

Tether tennis court . . . . . . . .. 400 4

Horseshoe courts (2) . . . . . .. 1,200 8

Tennis courts (2) . . . . . . . . . ..13,200 8
83,150 118
Landscaping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,500
Additional space for paths, etc. 5,000
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111,250 353

(2.55 acres)

It will be observed that 2%; acres may be con-
sidered as satisfactory for the needs of 300 chil-
dren as compared with 3% acres when double that
number of children are to be provided with a
playground. It is believed that unless the child
population of a given neighborhood is consider-
ably less than 300, a playground of 2% acres will
be needed. Naturally if only 100 are to be served,
a somewhat smaller area would suffice by provid-
ing for an overlapping use of certain sections—
for example the basketball court could be used for
volley ball and the soccer field for playground
baseball. There are comparatively few cases
where this condition is found, however, except in
rural or sparsely settled communities.

292 SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND

A Playground for 1000 Children

A situation more likely to be encountered,
especially in the larger cities, is that of a neigh-
borhood having a child population of tnore than
600 children of grammar school age. \\'here the
number is in excess of 600, a playgrouan of 3%
acres is likely to prove inadequate. On the other
hand it does not follow that the size of the play-
ground should be increased in direct proportion
to the additional number of children to be served.
Some of the units in the standard playground may
already be adequate to serve a much larger num-
ber of children; others may need to be enlarged
and still others may have to be duplicated. An at-
tempt is made here to determine in what ways
the standard playground will need to be enlarged
in order to care for a child population of 1,000.
Naturally opinions will differ as to individual
features and local conditions will also influence
the decision to omit or include a feature, just as
they influence the planning of any play area.

It can be taken for granted that all of the fa-
cilities and areas provided on the standard chil-
dren’s playground will be needed on the play-
ground to serve a larger number of children of
the same age range. The following apparatus
might be added to advantage: a low slide, a high
(8’) slide, 4 low swings and 6 standard or high
swings. The slides and swings are generally the
tnost popular types of apparatus and there is little
question that the added units would be widelyused.
Doubling the number of children of pre-school
age requires provision for twice as much space
for this group who should not have free access to
other sections of the playground. More space
should also be allowed for the games of the chil-
dren 6-10 years of age and for the wading pool,
handcraft area, outdoor theater. sand boxes and
shelter house. In the case of most of these fa-
cilities a comparatively small increase in the total
space allowed for them makes possible their use
by a much greater number of children. Several
additional areas must be provided for the games
and sports of the older boys and girls. They in-
clude a soccer field, volley ball and basketball
courts, two each additional paddle tennis, horse-
shoe, handball and tennis Courts. A wider straight-
away could be used to advantage. 1y placing the
open space for 6-10 year old children adjacent to
the playground baseball field, an open area sttf-
ticiently large to permit a soccer game to be car-
ried on would be provided. Since soccer is a sea-
soual game it is desirable to have two soccer fields

available for use during the playing season. More
space will be needed for landscaping and for safe
circulation. A list of the recommended facilities
and areas for such a playground follows:

53. Ft. CHM
Facility and Area Required Capacity
.4 pparatu:
Climbing trec . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 100 6

Slides (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750 12

Horizontal bars (3) . . . . . . . .. 500 12

Parazontal bars . . . . . . . . . . . .. 600 12

Horizontal ladders (2) . . . . .. 750 16
Traveling rings (stationary).. 625 6
Giant stride . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,225 6

Small junglegym . . . . . . . . . . .. 180 10

Low slides (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 340 12

Low swings (8) . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.200 8

Hieh swings (l2) . . . . . . . . . .. 3,000 12

Balance beam . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 100 4

See-saws (4) . . . .  . . . . . . .. 400 S

Junglegym . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500 20

 

10,270 144

.4!i.rcriiancou.r Equipment and Game Area:
Open space for pre-school

 

 

children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2.400 50

Space for games of children
6-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..15.(D0 120
“'ading pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4,000 60
Handcraft and quiet game-5.... 2.600 60
Outdoor theater . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3,000 50
Building block platform  500 25
Sand boxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 900 50
‘Shcltcr house . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3.000 50
31.400 465

Special Areas for Games and Sport:

Soccer ticlds (2) . . . . . . . . . . ..70.000 44
Playground baseball (2) .....38.125 40
Volley ball courts (2) . . . . . . . . 5.250 40

Basketball courts (2) . . . . . . . .. 7,125 32

Jumping pits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.200 12

I’addlc tennis courts (4) . . . . .. 6,720 16

Handball courts (4) . . . . . . . .. 4,100 16

Tcther tennis courts (2) . . . . .. 800 4

Horseshoe courts (4) . . . . . . .. 2.400 16

Tennis courts (4) . . . . . . . . . ..25,200 16

Straightaway track . . . . . . . . .. 8.640 14
169.560 250
Landscaping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10.000
Additional for paths, etc . . . . . . . . . ..12.000
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233.230. 859
(5.33 acres)

 

' The-shelter home might be omitted where the essential indoor
facilities are otherwise provided.

A playground of 51/} acres is found to be nec-
essary to care for the play needs of t.000 children
from 5 to 15 living in the neighborhood which
the playground is intended to serve. It is observed
that the playground's child capacity is only 859
children but this is a larger number than is likely
to be present at any one time.

SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND 293

A Comparison of the Space Requirements of
the Three Playgrounds

In order to provide a basis for comparing the
unit and total requirements of the three play-
grounds intended to serve the needs of different
numbers of children aged 5 to I5 years, the fol-
lowing table has been prepared. The playgrounds
to serve child populations of approximately 300,

600 and 1,000 are designated as “limited,” “stand—
ard,” and “large” playgrounds, respectively. These
titles are merely for easy identification and are
not intended as suggested terms to designate par-
ticular types of playgrounds. As previously
stated the requirements for the so-called “stand-
ard” playground represent what are believed to
be the necessary provision for the children’s play-
ground in most neighborhoods and communities.

A Comparison of the Standard, Limited and Large Playgrounds

Standard Limited Large
Child p0pulation to be served . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 600 300 1,000

Apparatus Area (sq. ft.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,700 5,600 10,270

Child capacity of apparatus area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122 65 74

Average sq. ft. per child served . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63 86 74

Area for equipment, etc. (sq. ft.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 21,300 13,000 30,900

Child capacity of this area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 285 170 450

Average sq. ft. per child served . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 75 76 69

Special areas for games and sports (sq. ft.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..109,975 83,150 169,560

Child capacity of this area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 156 118 250

Average sq. ft. per child served . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 705 704 678

Total area of playground (sq. ft) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..151,975 111,250 233,230

Total area of playground (acres) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3.49 2.55 5.35

C'hild capacity of total playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 563 353 859

Average sq. ft. per child served—total playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 270 315 272

Child capacity .per acre of playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 161 138 160

Average sq. ft. of playground per child in neighborhood . . . . . .. 253 371 233

Number children in neighborhood per acre of playground . . . . .. 172 118 187

The preceding table shows that the space re-
quired for a child population of 300 is approxi—
mately 75% that required for 600 children. A
child population of 1,000 requires approximately
50% more than 600. The space required per unit
of child population is shown to decrease slightly
as the number of children to be served increases.
The amount of space needed for each child in the
neighborhood or who can be accommodated on
the playground at one time is greatest in the case
of the “limited” playground. This is explained by
the fact that since a variety of game courts which
require considerable space should be provided
even though the number of children to be served
is comparatively small, fewer children per acre
can be cared for. The “standard” and “large”
playgrounds are more efficient and economical
units, judged by their capacity for service, than
the small or “limited” playgrounds.

The preceding paragraphs illustrate a method
of determining space requirements for neighbor-
hoods of different child populations. Frequently
suggested standards have been based on a fixed
number of square feet per child but the fallacy of
such standards lies in the fact that certain facili-
ties and courts are needed to serve the varied in-
terests of children regardless of the number of
children who are to use the playground. The

preceding table indicates that the standard in
terms of square feet per child varies with differ-
ent numbers of children. The normal standard
for the children’s playground, however, may be
used as a basis for estimating the needs of a
greater or lesser number of children.

The following table indicates the approximate
areas that are required for various numbers of
children as determined by the method previously
indicated:

Minimum S ice of Average square

Child Population Playground Needed feet per child
ta be served (In Sq. Ft.) (In Acres) papuiation
200 100,000 2.29 500
300 111,250 2.55 371
450 133,000 3.05 296 ‘
600 151,975 3.49 253
800 194,000 4.45 243
1000 233,230 5.35 233
1200 272,000 6.25 227

This table in addition illustrates the fact
that total plaground space requirements vary
directly but not proportionately with the number
of children in the neighborhood to be served.
Among the reasons for this variation are that cer-
tain pieces of apparatus do not need to be dupli-
cated when more children are to be served; fea-
tures such as the theater, which are seldom used
to capacity can usually serve many more children

(Continued on page 308)

Pontiac Schools As Community Centers

HE BROAD USE of school build-

T ings as community centers

in Pontiac is not a mere accident. It is rather

the result or fruitage of a philosophy of the

educational function of a school building which
has been for many years in my mind.

To me a school plant, while primarily a
place for the education of children, is much
more than that. It is a place where educa-
tional opportunities and wholesome recrea—
tional facilities may be open to all the people
of the community irrespective of age, race,
class, and creed.

Education is, or should be, a continuing life
process. It should not end with the days of
formal schooling. Everything should be done.
therefore, that can be done to encourage inter-
est and participation in extra-school activities.
Basic to this theory is the encouragement of
the grown-ups in the use of school buildings
as centers for education, entertainment, in-
struction, and recreation. Opportunity for ed-
ucation and recreation to all the peOple is my
idea of the function of the school. To this
policy the various boards of education have
lent their unvarying and unanimous support.

Buildings for Recreation

In line with this broad principle the many
school buildings that have been erected in Pon—
tiac the past ten years have mirrored this con-
ception of the function of education. Three
junior high school buildings have been erected
during that period, all of them with ample
auditoriums and extensive double gymnasi-
inns—«one for boys and men, the other for
girls and women. Three elementary schools
have also been erected during these years--
each with an auditorium and gymnasium de-
signed not only for use by the school children
but as well for use by the entire
neighborhood of which the
schools are the center. Ample
playgrounds have aISo been pro-
vided ranging from live to sev-
enteen acres. These become cen—
ters for outdoor recreation in

294

By JAMES H. HARRIS

Mr. Harris is Sllpnrinlclld-
cm of Schools in Pontiac.
Michigan. llis article orig-
inally appeared in thc‘

:‘larch 193-1 issue of the
Pontiac School Journal.

the summer time to all people,

young and old, in the neigh-
borhood.

Besides these entirely new school buildings
with all their provisions for adult education
and recreation, a new gymnasium was added
to the senior high school. This gymnasium
is one of the finest in the state. and in fact
compares with the best to be found anywhere
in the country. It comfortably seats 1,500
spectators and is a model of its kind. It has
become literally a civic recreational center,
and almost every winter night it is filled with
spectators come to witness some thrilling city
league or high school basketball game. \Vith-
out its splendid and capacious high school
gymnasium the city would be bereft indeed
of recreational facilities.

In like manner the junior high school gym-
nasiums and auditoriums have been thrown
open to the people for recreational, instruc-
tional, and entertainment purposes. The City
Recreation Department and the Board of Ed-
ucation have entered into a joint arrangement
whereby the latter, without charge, throws
Open the doors of its gymnasiums and audi-
toriums to the public, while the former as-
sumes responsibility for the administration and
supervision of the activities. Again, in one of
the junior high schools the use of the auditor-
ium has been granted gratis to the Y..\I.C.A.
of the city for a weekly series of entertain-
ments for the unemployed of the city—a con-
tribution which has been of inestimable value.

Social Value

This liberal policy and this broad philosophy
of the function of the school plan in commu-
nity life have been of immeasurable value dur-
ing the period of the depression. Pontiac, an
exclusively automobile manu-
facturing city, has been pecu-
liarly hard hit during the de-
pression. \Vith thousands upon
thousands of men thrown into
enforced idleness and dependent
upon the "dole" for their sub-

(Conrinucd on page 309)

l

Education

For

Leisure

By R. V. JORDAN

Superintendent of Schools
Centralia, Illinois

U NDOUBTEDLY the most significant feature of

our present social economy is the large

amount of leisure which is to be the lot of
industrial workers and certain other workers of
our COUntry. So quickly has this change come
upon us, and so thoroughly do the principles in-
volved seem to have taken root, that it is almost
trite even to make such a statement. A short time
ago it was popular to say, “We are living in a
changing world.” Now we might better say, “we
are living in a changed world.” For many of the
things now regarded as temporary measures will
probably be in force in some form or other from
now on as far as the present generation is
concerned.

Must Be Earned Leisure

The first question that should be raised in a
discussion of this matter is—“VVhat sort of lei-
sure shall this new leisure be?” Shall it be an
earned leisure or an unearned one? Shall it be a
welcome leisure that fosters contentment and hap-
piness, or shall it be a leisure that foments dis-
order and unhappiness? Shall it be a leisure in
which the toiler is enabled to delve among the
fringe of avocational beckonings, or social and
community services, and there enrich his soul and
the souls of others? In short, shall the new lei-
sure mean idleness and crime, or shall it mean
culture? The answer rests largely with such or-
ganizations as the National Recreation Associa-
tion and to a large degree with the American
public schools.

“The only way in which we can
educate for leisure—or for any
other purpose under heaven—is
by awakening sensitized surfaces
in the individual. Certainly for
leisure the essence lies in the
fact that it represents the ex-
pression of our inner urge, and
the vocabulary for this expres-
sion, so rude, so halting, so
stumbling in most of us, is ac-
quired through our sensitiveness
to books and arts and crafts and
sports and out-of-doors.”—Mary
C. Coleman, President, National
Physical Education Association.

 

There isn’t the slightest doubt that one of the
elements involved in the crisis in education is the
fact that popular education, in its present form, is
losing its hold on the public imagination. Again
and again, in various forms, to be sure, this fact
is stated by the leaders in educational thought.
Only last March, Dr. George F. Zook, United
States Commissioner of Education, in speaking
before the Department of Superintendence at
Cleveland said, “1 do not believe that it is possi-
ble to recapture the confidence of the adult popu-
lation of this country, until they can be convinced
that the program of the schools is adapting itself
to the needs of the new era into which we are
entering more rapidly than we realize.”

Just what form shall this adaptation of the
program of the schools take? It must not stop
with adding a little here and paving a way a little
there. It shall not take the form of the crucifix-
ion of the line arts and vocational studies upon a
cross of gold. It must mean nothing short of a
new deal for education. And nothing in the new
deal for education can rival in importance educa-
tion for the profitable use of leisure time; this is
both childhood and adult education.

What form shall the new education for leisure
time take? Does it imply that nothing in the
present curriculum is of any value as a prepara-
tion for worthwhile leisure time pursuits? Does
it mean, in the main, a scrapping of the present
curriculum? Does this new education imply that
new material must be added to the present curricu-
lum— replacements or additions as the case may

295

296 EDUCATION FOR LEISURE

be? Or shall we say that the cue is merely for new
emphases upon the subject matter of the present
day curriculum as found in the most progressive

schools? These are some questions that should be
answered.

An Attempt to Find the Answer

The teachers of the school system of which I
am privileged to be the superintendent set out to
try to answer such questions as these. First they
asked, “Does the present curriculum contain any
leisure time values ?” Then they set to work to
find out. They assembled the scalpels, dissecting
needles, microtomes and reagents of educational
investigatiOn and set to work. The first step was
to analyze the curriculum, as found in our system,
into its leisure time values. This curriculum in-
cludes every form of music and physical educa-
tion, and such extra-curricular activities as phi-
lately. There were no guide posts; so far as we
know they were charting a new route. After a
preliminary meeting in which the fullest possible
discussion was had, each teacher prepared a very
finely divided analysis of the leisure time values
of the various subjects which he or she teaches—
I say “he or she” because more than 12% of our
teaching staff are men. From these lists a com-
posite list was made. This included eighteen dif-
ferent school studies and the total number of lei-
sure time values set up is about 500. For in-
stance, physical education was assigned 12 leisure
time values, geOgraphy 22, gardening 28, band
and orchestra department 25, reading 39 and phi-
lately 43. Nothing of completeness, mathematical
accuracy or finality is claimed for this analysis.
It is only a first attempt to do something that
seems to need to be done.

The next l0gical question was, “Has this analy-
sis of the leisure time values of the elementary
curriculum any validity? Has our adult population
really experienced such leisure time values after
finishing the curriculum ?” The solution that seem-
ed indicated was to try the analysis out on the adults
and see whether it was valid.
“’hile we are aware of the para-
phrased statement from Solo-
them, "Of the making of ques-
tionnaires there is no end." we
do not quite share the views of
the pessimist who said, “A ques-
tionnaire is an instrument fash-
ioned by morons to be answered
by imbeciles"; nevertheless we

Recreation

The suhjcet of training by the
schools for the use of leisure is
discussed at length in “The New The last questiOn elicited
Leisure Challenges the Schools"
--the report of a study made by
I‘iugcue T. Lies of the National
Association. The
boo-k may be secured from the
Association-$1.50 paper bound;

$12.00 cloth hound.

decided to call our instrument a checking list. So
we fashioned our six-page check list of leisure
time values of the various subjects and prepared
500 copies. Then we chose 500 families by a. ran-
dom selection method to receive the check lists.
Every person in the family 16 years of age or
older was requested on the instruction sheet to
check all values which he had made use of since
finishing school. The lists were then returned to
us and a composite score prepared. The results
were quite astonishing; no item was left uncheck-
ed. You would never guess the subject receiving
the largest number of checks—it was a subject
which I thought was rapidly fading from the
social picture—it was serving with a total of 2983
checks!

The five subjects receiving the largest number
of checks, ranked in descending order, are sewing,
music (vocal and instrumental), reading. garden-
ing and art. In the light of such findings, how can
we think for a moment of labelling the fine arts
and vocational subjects as “fads and frills" when
study of the leisure time values of the common
school subjects reveals that adults rate sewing,
music, art, and gardening as four of the first five
subjects in importance for their leisure time
values?

At this point we must make a confession. Our
so-called check list really did contain three ques-
tions. The answers to these we shall discuss
seriatim. The first was, “W hat school study or
studies do you think are of the most value for
leisure time occupation?" we had more than 700
suggestions in reply to this query, including 22
different subjects of study with reading, penman-
ship, arithmetic, grammar, and music ranking in
the order named. These rankings seem to over-
turn the rankings announced for the check list
but the number of frequencies is small.

The next question was, “Do you think any new
subjects of study should be added for leisure time
values (if so, name them) P" The response to
this question was almost negligible. Only 22 sug-
gestions were offered and all of
them but one are already cared
for by the present curriculum.

some very interesting responses.
“Would you like to have free
access to a special leisure time
department in the city library
where you could find books and

( C outinm-d on page 309)

A Center for Youth

MERICAN YOUTH is pour-
A ing out of school today
to face a world which
seems to have no use for them.
They have never been employed; they are unable
to continue their education; they cannot find vo—
cational adjustment, and it is not possible for them
to marry and establish normal homes. They pre-
sent one of the most serious problems of the de-
pression.

This problem is being felt increasingly in every
American community. \Ve of Lakewood, recog-
nizing the importance of offering these boys and
girls wholesome and ‘attractive recreational and
educational opportunities, decided to take action.
“7 e found it possible by some curtailment in other
places to arrange for part of the funds provided
by the Lakexvoodeecreation Department to be
devoted to a special project for these young peo-
ple. In December, 1933, Wilson School, which
was closed as a school a year ago because of lack
of funds, was opened as a recreational, educa-
tional and vocational center for the youth of Lake-
wood between the ages of eighteen and thirty-
three. These young people are partially or Wholly
unemployed; some had planned to go to college
and found themselves unable to do so.

Facilities

Wilson School, now known as Lakewood Rec-
reation Hall, is located in the center of the city
and contains two small gymnasiums, shower
baths, an auditorium, cafeteria facilities, and many
classrooms which have been transformed into
game rooms, lounges, discussion rooms, council
chambers, library and read—
ing room, and card rooms.
We secured the cooperation
of civic organizations in fur-
nishing rooms. The contri—
butions were as follows: '

Parent-Teacher Groups—Lounge
.VVoman’s Club—Lounge

—Card room

Toastmaster’s Club and Y.M.C.A.
Mother’s Club—Meeting room
and game room

College Club—Library and read-

By SOPHIE FISHBACK

Director, Department of Public Recreation

Lakewood, Ohio

“The community must prepare in
some measure the setting for youth’s
activities by furnishing opportunities
for leadership for older young people
as they graduate from boys’ and
girls” clubs and from the playground.
. . . We have overlooked the great
South Lakewood Woman's Club field of civic and political interests
and the possibility of dechOpiug sclf—
functioniug civic units into which
youth might graduatc.”—BessicA.Mc-
Clcnafwn in Preparation for Leisure.

ing rooms, books and subscrip-
tions to Saturday Evening Post
and American.

Rotary Club—Conference room.

Exchange Club—Game room and
all equipment

Lions Club—Piano, radio and victrola for music room

Y.M.C.A.—Have offices in building and pay rent
Y.VV.C.A.—Sitting room

M. E. Church Group—Conference lounge
The cafeteria has not yet been equipped. The

Teachers’ Federation will start the ball rolling by
presenting dishes; other organizations will be
asked to donate tables and chairs.

Leadership

One of the important features of the organiza—
tion is a self—governing general council of young
people who have direction and control of the en-
terprise. Their first organization was temporary
until the project got under way. It has now dis—
solved and the personnel for a permanent council
is being considered. The temporary group con-
sisted of twelve boys and girls divided into four
committees with a general chairman—house com-
mittee, program committee, publicity committee
and finance committee. There is an advisory
group of older citizens active in civic work. This
group is parallel with those of the younger group.
The officers of the Recreation Department have
been placed in the new center. Thus professional
leadership is available for the development of the
program.

Volunteer leaders and CCES paid workers
have been obtained as leaders for all the classes
and activities such as drama, journalism, lan-
guages, English, discussion groups, glee club, or-
chestra, arts and crafts, shorthand, photography,
fencing. boxing, tap and so-
cial dancing, gymnasium, first
aid, sewing, book reviews,
basketball and radio classes.
There are, in addition, social
activities such as parties.
During the summer the cen-
ter will be open every day,
but only on two evenings a
week as the young people are
taking part in outdoor ac-

(Continued on page 310)
297

The Values of Parks and Playgrounds

“To play in the sunlight is a child's right
and it is not to bc cheated out of it. And
when it is chcatcd of it, it is not the child
but the community that is robbed of that
beside which all its wealth is but tinsel
and trash. For men, not money, make a
country great. and joyless children do
not make good mcn.”—JACOB Bus.

HIS STATEMENT, written a good many years
T ago by one of the pioneers in the playground

movement of this country, stands as true to-
day as the day it was written.

The Changing Viewpoint

Many years ago, as our earlier cities began to
expand, their vacant lots were utilized for build-
ing purposes, thus taking from the future citizens
of the land their accustomed recreational spots
The larger cities acquired, and wisely so, tracts
of land for park and playground areas. In some,
beautiful parks were developed, but were for the
most part things of esthetic beauty where rules
and regulations kept the children from damaging
the lawns, and it became necessary to place many
signs bearing the inscription, “Keep Off the
Grass,” much to the disgust of the present
generation.

During the past twenty-five years or more,
many things have happened to change the view-
point of the public (as well as of park oflicials)
to consider more the human side of the proposi-
tion, until we find today that our parks and play-
grounds are not alone places of esthetic beauty,
but places where human beings, both young and
old, can live. They may enjoy the natural beauty
of our parks; play baseball, basketball, tennis.
golf, swim and even dance
in many of the well laid out
p a r k s and playgrounds
throughout the length and
breadth of our g r e at
country.

In many cases, however,
our city governments have
appropriated funds for the

298

We are presenting hcre abstracts from
an article in the September issue of
Parks and Recreation by John W. Ker-
nan who is Engineer and Superintend-
ent of Parks and Playgrounds in Lowell.
In his article Mr. Keman urges the use
of wide-spread publicity to show the
public the progress made in the de-
vclopment of parks and playgrounds.

By JOHN W. KERNAN

Superintendent, Parks and Playgrounds
Lowell, Massachusetts

purchase of land for parks and playgrounds and
have then become dormant, failing to realize that
it takes funds to develop the lands already ac
quired, as well as to maintain, so that they may
be put in suitable shape for use.

The invention and lasting popularity of the au-
tomobile has indeed revolutionized American life.
Middle-aged people of the present generation who '
played in safety as children in the streets before
its advent, well know that it became absolutely
necessary for city and town governments to pro-
vide playground areas where children can be
taken off the busy thorough fares and given a place
to play in safety—away from the busy lanes of
traffic which now seem to be everywhere about us.
\Vhen one considers the number of children’s lives
which have been saved through the develOpment
of public parks and playgrounds, without consid-
eration of the health and recreation which they
have brought to a great many people, one cannot
deny that the money expended was worth while.

Today’s Emergency

Unfortunately, today our city and town gov-
ernnients have seen lit, in a number of cases, to
reduce the appropriations for parks and play-
grounds, stating that these activities can well be
curtailed in times of depression.

It is also unfortunate that
some of the peOple who re-
ceive the most benefit from
our parks and playgrounds
never raise their voices at_
the time when our city gov-
crnnicnts are considering
the yearly budgets of the
various cities, but make

THE VALUES OF PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS 299

themselves heard in the middle of the year seek-
ing betterments after the,funds have already been
allotted. If we can make them see that their com-
plaints are not with the park executive who must
live within his budget, but with their own laxity
in not taking the matter up with their duly elected
officials, it will undoubtedly be the means of hav-
ing the proper authorities see the light. During
the present depression our parks and playgrounds
have been the means of keeping many a young
man and young woman occupied, as well as older

 

Cou rtesy A merican Photography

men and women, who have been temporarily out
of employment. I shudder to think what might
have been the outcome if the escape valve for our
citizens in the shape of parks and playgrounds
had not been available in these trying times.

The Kind of Play Needed

During the past few years much has appeared
in our newspapers throughout the country with
reference to the atrocious acts of many gangsters,
racketeers. kidnappers, and what not. The gang
may be a peril to the country, as indeed is the case
in many cities. The gang of boys that grows up to

be a political unit, bent merely upon serving itself,
possessing a power which mutual loyalty alone
can give, is thereby enabled to exploit others for
its own advantage in a way that is most vicious.
These mutual relationships have an ethical effect
which may be towards evil, but on the other hand
may be arranged so that the effect will be towards
good; but the ethical nature in itself is primarily
related to self—control and to freedom.

Unethical play is worse than no play at all. It
is not merely play that our cities and our children

Though still serving esthetic interests,
parks are also meeting recreational needs.

need. They need the kind of play that makes for
wholesome moral and ethical life, the play that
makes for those relationships between individuals
that will be true to the adult ideals which belong,
and should belong to the community.

The school and the home rest primarily upon
the development of the quality of obedience, but
the properly supervised playground alone affords
to children the one great opportunity for culti-
vating those qualities that grow out of meeting
others of like kind under conditions of freedom;
it develops progressively, from babyhood on, the

( Continued on page 310)

The Wandering Sport Teacher in Germany

"WAXDERING" teacher
A who travels around

the country going
into a community as a
friend and adviser, at the
service of every club and
rural organization —— that
is the plan of the German
National Committee for
Physical Training which.
through its rural youth
organizations, is carrying
on so-called “wandering
training courses" in all
parts of the country.

How the Plan Operates

The itinerant sport lead-
er goes to a rural district for four or live
weeks, staying from two to four days in one
place and reaching all the groups in the vicin-
ity. He stimulates the interest of the schoois
in modern physical education methods; he
demonstrates through gymnastics, games and
apparatus work of the simplest type may be
used even under the most
primitive conditions. He
give s training ac-
cording to conditions
in the individual
community in track
and field eiv e n ts .
handicap e v c n t s .
tumbling and mat
work, natural appar-
atus work (liars and
rings), games. swim-
ming, small caliber
target practice, folk
dancing, wandering,
and folk singing. Fi-
nally, he aids rural
clubs in conducting

3( X )

 

From village to village, into rural
districts,goes the wandering leader

With homemade, improvised apparatus and
the simplest of tools he plies his trade

 

regular training activities.

In preparing for the vis-
it of a wandering teacher,
who is a sport teacher or
an older student of the
Hochschuler fur Leibesu-
bungen in B e r l i n and
ei t h e 1' comes from the
country or has had exper-
ience in rural wOrk, some
organizations such as the
District Committee for
Youth Training does the
preliminary work. This
includes setting the dates
for the visit, notifying In
advance the athletic clubs
and other youth organiza-
tions, agricultural schools and clubs, making
contacts with the district school teachers con-
cerning necessary work in the schools. and se-
curing the co-O“eration of the local press.
\Vhen working flans have been arranged and
replies received from the different organiza-
tions, some of the work is usually delegated
to specially a p p oi n t e (1
men in the district who
secure board and lodg-
ing for the teacher,
and make up a plan
for him taking into ac-
count traflic and rail-
way connections.

The district pays
only the costs of the
local trips and mis-
cellaneous expenses.
In ca se of official
payment. a s a I a r y
from two to three
and a half marks per
day is paid. The
((‘nnfinm'd on rare 310)

' WORLD AT PLAY

IN the fall of 1933
the Kiwanis Club of
Evansville, Indiana,
presented the city
with an outdoor stage in Mesker Park. On
May 20, 1934, the first program was given
when the Evansville Civic Choral Society,
sponsored by the Mu-
sicians’ Club and City
Recreation D e p a r t-
ment, presented the
oratorio, “Elijah,” un-
der the direction of
its leader, Dr. E. E.
Harper, President of
Evansville College. ,
(S e e accompanying
photograph.) _

The Park Depart—-
ment has leased for
twenty years thirty
acres of land belong—
ing to Evansville College. The ground,
which is inside the city limits, will be used as
a recreation field and will contain ten tennis
courts, a swimming pool, an outdoor stage, a
children’s playground, ten soft ball diamonds,
a baseball diamond, a football field, and a shel-
'ter house. The playground will be beautified.
and a ridge running through the center will be
used to seat people for the outdoor stage and
for various ball games. The field will not be
completed this year, but the swimming pool,
sponsored and partially financed by the Ki-
wanis Club, five ball diamonds and four tennis
courts will soon be available.

Developments in
Evansville

ON June 6th and
7th, Reading, Penn-
sylvania, held a mu-
sic festival in the
stadium of Albright College. The college,
through its president, the Reverend Dr. J.
WVarren Klein and the president of its alumni

A Music Festival
in Reading

 

 

C aurtesy Ez'onn'flle Department of Municipal Recreation

association, Elmer L. Mohn, sponsored the fes-
tival with the assistance of a civic committee
including business and professional men and
women of the city. Over 1,000 local people
participated in the festival choir— 500 men and
500 women recruited from many sources. The
chorus, directed by W'illy Ric‘hter, Reading’s
composer and direct-
or of the Reading
male chorus, was ac-
companied by a v01-
unteer orchestra. The
orchestra, composed
of 125 pieces, was pro-
vided by Fred Card-
in, high school music
instructor and com-
poser. Among the se-
lections 0n the pro-
gram were two por—
tions of Mendels-
sohn’s “ H y m n of
Praise"; “All Men, All Things”; “Ye Nations,

Offer to the Lord,” and “Hail, Bright Abode,”
chorus from “Tannhauser.”

IN a newspaper ar-‘
ticle describing the
Ohio public school
situation, C h a r l e s
\V. Lawrence tells of visiting New Straitsville,
Perry County, a town of 1,700 pe0ple, over a
coal mine which has .been burning for the last
half century. “When he is not teaching mathe-
matics or helping to feed jobless families,
Principal Perry Potts of the high school spends
his time keeping the school building from fall-
ing down and working as general repair man,
carpenter, plumber and electrician. As it is
this small town principal has managed to give
his underfed pupils homely editions of a good
many of the luxuries the big city schools
boast—and this at no cost to the taxpayer.”

301

What One School
Principal Is Doing

302 WORLD AT PLAY

   
 

  

RUSTIC LAWN FURNITURE

Mountain Handcraft—4 piece lawn and porch ut (Gilli!!th of three
(ham and table. A beautiful ut made from rare mountain willow.

Complete set for only $12.50
Cash with order

RUSTIC FURNITURE SUPPLY CO.
Bristol. Virginia

  
      
    
     

Mr. Potts equipped a complete playground
for the school at a cost of about $10. He built
large teeter-totters that will last a lifetime.
\\’ith the aid of a blacksmith and with equip-
ment dug from a mine he erected huge swings
and horizontal bars. \Vhen a shoemaker bought
new equipment, Mr. Potts purchased his old
polishing machine and rebuilt it into a lathe
outfit for the school's manual arts department.
\\’ith the help of his boys he built a shower
room for the gymnasium, putting up home-
made tanks to hold the water pumped by hand.
\Vhen in good times the Parent-Teacher Asso-
ciation collected $350 for a school radio set,
Mr. Potts and his students bought the neces-
sary mechanism and installed a complete radio
system throughout the building, enclosing it
all in home-made cabinets. Mr. Potts has built
bookcases for the library, bought an old wash
stand and equipped a rest room for girls, laid
a new brick wall to replace a crumbling one in
the basement, and last summer he and his
helpers dug up a vein of coal running through
the school basement, thereby securing enough
coal to last part of the winter.

How Lay Groups Are Helping—In Miami,
Florida, neighborhood councils have been or-
ganized and through them many activities have
been carried on for which there have been no
public funds. In all of the cities of Florida
sports and social recreation clubs have been
organized on a self-supporting basis which
help in the construction of new facilities and
the maintenance and upkeep of all equipment.

An outstanding use of lay people in advanc-
ing the program is the neighborhood council
movement in Richmond, Virginia. Through
these councils it has been possible to secure
increased appropriations and the use of such
public facilities as schools for recreation pur-
poses.

A Novel Kind of Festival—A novel event
was the clog dancing festival held in Los
Angeles, California, on June 26th, under the

auspices of the Playground and Recreation De-
partment. Practically every recreation center
in the city offers class instruction in the vari-
ous forms of clogging, and as a result hun-
dreds of trained “heel and toe” dancers were
available for the event.

A New Park for Greenvilleu-Last fall Green-
ville, Pennsylvania, dedicated its new $50,000
Riverside Park recently completed as a work
relief project. A program of speaking by Gov-
ernor Pinchot and other ofiicials was followed
by a two mile parade of floats, bands and 0r-
ganizations. The event was combined with
Greenville's hrst annual gala day, and sc0res
of events were packed into a program lasting
from 10:00 A. M. Thursday, October 12th,
until early Friday morning.

Charlottesville Makes Progressu-On June
15th, Charlottesville, Virginia, opened three
playgrounds for white and one for colored.
A feature of the newly organized program in
Charlottesville has been the square dances held
every other week for adults, particularly the
unemployed and the mill workers. The pro-
gram has grown so rapidly in the few months
it has been in operation that the municipal
facilities have proved inadequate. A number
of churches, a mission house, the Elks Club
room, the library and the armory have been
utilized. Regular programs are given at the
various institutions of the city, and work is
being done with children on probation.

Free Golf Lessons—An arrangement was
made in Detroit, Michigan, by the Department
of Parks and Boulevards whereby profession-
als at three municipal golf courses gave free
lessons during June to women and boys.

New Centers for Scranton — Four of the
emergency relief projects being made up in
Scranton, Pennsylvania, include the alteration
of three fire houses and one police station for
recreation centers. In each of these buildings
the second floor has been used for storage
only, and each is large enough to allow for
one large recreation room about 80 by 40 feet.
two small rooms about 20 feet square, a small
kitchen and sanitary facilities. It is interesting
to note that the use of these facilities for ree-
reation purposes will involve the supplying of

WORLD AT PLA Y 303

leadership only as heat, light and janitor ser-
vice are already available.

A Park Library—The Playground and Rec-
reation Association of Philadelphia last sum-
mer sponsored a park library. The Federation
of \Vomen’s Clubs c‘ollected books and maga-
zines from members and headquarters were set
up on a park bench. Those who borrowed
books and magazines left their names with the
two workers in charge.

Hiking—The Women’s Athletic Club of
Glendale, California, organized in 1924, lists
hiking as one of the most popular activities.
During the current year there were 40 mem-
bers in the hiking department. Members gath-
ered at 8:30 each Thursday morning at a spe-
cified point from which they motored to the
beginning of the trail for the day’s outing. The
average attendance for the year was 19, though
on particularly popular hikes the number was
often increased to 25 or 30. The majority of
the hikes are from seven to nine miles long.
The membership of this group is composed of
Glendale housewives, many of them young moth-
ers who see the children safely off to school be-
fore they leave for the day’s outing. Others
are gray-haired grandmothers.

Among the Conventions—The National Con-
ference of State Parks held its annual meeting
at Pineville, Kentucky, June 7th to 9th. Topics
discussed included in general the following:
Economic factors affecting state park and for-
est developments; inventions, good roads, and
the influence of manufacturers of outdoor liv-
ing equipment; the biologic needs of a highly
urbanized people, and the changing habits of
our people in their recreation growing out of
a desire to escape to the open country, with
a resulting broadening of the services of state
parks and the recreational uses of state forests.

In addition to the formal discussions, repre-
sentatives of the various states told of the
status of state parks. It was stated, for ex-
ample, that in the last year Texas has probably
added more acreage of state parks than any
other state in the Union. One of the new
areas has 105,000 acres, while another com-
prises 26 square miles. Much attention was

given at the conference to the work of CCC
camps.

 

    

 gn'-

l

a .' - Ah...A.4.-A¢....-_. _ --

LOUDEN JUNGLE-GYM

The Original Climbing Structure

ERE is the most pOpular and the safest of all

playground devices. Over 600 installed in

greater New York: 400 in Chicago, including
installation at "A Century of PrOgress." Scientifically
designed to give full sway to natural play instincts
of youth . . . . to swing, climb. hang from the arms
and legs. Made Exclusively by Louden. in five sizes.
Write today for full particulars and free boolt de-
scribing complete line of Louden Playground, Gym
and Pool Equipment. No obligation.

_.‘_~..__‘_‘,_-_gn...‘1_,,—_.‘.H. 1

Ma nufactu red by

l. E. PORTER CORPORATION

120 Broadway Ottawa, Illinois

LOUDEN

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT

Summer Dramatics in Los Angel‘eS—Last
summer six Los Angeles, California, play-
grounds presented weekly matinees. To aug-
ment the plays, which were short, the program
included folk songs, dances and a variety of
instrumental music such as music by toy
bands, ukulele groups and harmonica bands.
Boys dressed as clowns, and acrobatic tum-
bling and pyramid stunts did much to add to
the enjoyment of these special matinees.

A Committee on Leisure Interests of Young
People—The development of wholesome lei-
sure time interests for high school graduates
and other young people of Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, will be the objective of a committee
selected by the Playground and Recreation
Department to work with the Parent-Teacher
Association leaders of the city. This action
was taken following a report from George
Hjelte, Superintendent of Recreation, showing
the need of providing carry-over recreational
interests for young men and women after they
have completed their school careers.

3301 WORLD AT PLAY

An 'Institute in Houston, Texas—Just pre
ceding the opening of the playground season last
summer, the Recreation Department of Houston,
Texas, held a two weeks’ institute for individuals
secured as summer playground workers through
the relief funds of Harris County. It was at-
tended by approximately 200 men and women
whose ages ranged from sixteen to fifty years
Instruction was given by Corinne F onde, Super-
intendent of the Department, members of the staff
and of the Recreation Department and by in-
structors from local organizations such as the
Y.\\'.C.A., the Probation Department, the school
system and of the Jefferson Davis Hospital. An
early morning period of lectures and discussions
was followed by a ten minute recess. Then came
a thirty-five minute review of the subjects dis
cussed. After this came another instruction period
of an hour and a quarter. The morning ended
with a laboratory period which included storytell-
ing, singing games, stunts and charades, hand-
craft and games.

Swimming Their Way to Health—Learning
to swim in a swimming pool has given back
their “land legs” to three Louisville children,
victims of infantile paralysis, and several
others are gradually regaining the use of their
limbs. At the advice of their physicians the
children entered the free swimming classes
conducted by the Louisville, Kentucky, Divi-
sion of Recreation, where they are given
special instruction. The classes are conducted
in conjunctiOn with a mothers’ class so that the
mothers of the children can learn to swim at
the same time. TranSporting the children to
the park pool has not always been easy, but
with the cooperation of interested club women
and the use of the police patrol the problem is
being met.

Recreational Leadership— The \Vestbrook
Junior College in Portland, Maine, has initi-
ated a two year course in recreational leader-
ship “to direct and develop the interests of
girls who desire to become leaders in the field
of recreation.” Courses are offered in English,
community life, arts and crafts, camping, recre-
ational activities, nature study, physical educa-
tion, music, dramatics, hygiene, and first aid.

Activities in Ann Arbor, Michigan—Last
year twenty-four different organizations in
Ann Arbor, Michigan, used the gymnasiums

provided by the Board of Education on 438
different evenings. A charge was made for
the use of the facilities.

The Power of Play

(Continued from 9091' 268)

not always, with the anti-Social behaviors of un-
guarded childhood play.

“'ho is to blame for the neglected play of child-
hood, the wasted, misused or unused sports of
youth, the vicious recreations that fill the leisure
time of maturity? The status of the adults of to-
morrow—physically, mentally, and socially-—-is
determined to a large degree by our care or ne-
glect of those adults while they are children to-
day. As parents and as social-minded public-
spirited citizens we have a serious responsibility
and a precious opportunity. \\'e are responsible
for the physical, biological, and social environ-
ments of our children. \\-' e are responsible for the
quality and quantity of their experiences within
those surroundings. The precious opportunity to
which I referred just now is given us as adults
to make wise use of the power of play to influ-
ence the lives of our children giving them ex-
periences that will help them in their physical
education, their emotional and their other mental
education and in their social education. No
greater influence than that of the power of play
is available for the determination and regulation
of the physical, mental and social health of our
children and through them the health of the men
and women they are to be.

if in addition to providing our children with
favorable health heritage, adequate nutrition, sat-
isfying rest, and favorable experiences with f avor-
able environment, we would provide ways of help-
ing them play with their big muscles—play
adequately and vigorously within the limits of
their strength—help them play with alert joy and
with wholesome emotional adjustment without
excess, without passion, selfishness, cruelty or
fear, help them play trustingly with others as
they would have others play with them, we would
prepare our children for youth that would he
freer—if not free——-from inadequate physical
growth and development, from emotional excess
and mental conflict and from social maladju'stment.

The wwer of play; its power in the alluring
sports and athletics of youth; the power of the
right sorts of play and the power of the wrong
sorts of play in the games of youth, re-emphasize

A COMM UNITY CHILDREN’S THEATRE

the serious adult responsibility and the precious
adult opportunity to which I again refer because
of their inescapable importance. It is the adult
leadership and the adult audience that set the ex-
ample and force the standards of sportsmanship
and ethics of the game and establish the safe-
guards of physical, mental and social health in
training, competition and celebration. These
standards are made or broken by adults and
copied, right or wrong, by youth.

The power of play gives a priceless opportunity
to use adult leadership to determine and regulate
the physical education, the emotional education
and the social education of youth even as it does
for childhood, and we men and women are re-
sponsible for the recreations that attract our own
leisure time. If those recreations are vicious we
are to blame. If they are satisfying and whole-
some; if they bring happiness without regret; if
they give us relaxation without worry or anxiety;
if they give us bodily comfort, emotional harmony,
mental adjustment, and social understanding: if
these are the products of our adult recreations,
we have made profitable use of the power of play.

\Vith all the distresses that now surround us,
with all the influences that now threaten our phy-
sical, mental and social health, we need today,
more perhaps than ever before, a wise, efficient,
calculated program of recreational engineering
that will make effective use of the power of play
for the health and happiness of our children, our
youth, and our men and women.

A Community Children's Theatre

(Continued from page 269}
shows, and oft times the children themselves help

to decorate them with cut-outs or crayon outlines.
Eleanor Shanley, general technical supervisor of
the Children’s Theater, works with Mrs. Robut-
son in designing the costumes, which recently
have been made through CWA labor.

The settings are gorgeous, bringing to reality
the extravagant fairy tale descriptions of palaces
and underground caver'ns. Children’s plays merit
more elegant settings than do plays for mature
casts,dbecause the soft beauty of line and color
serves to enhance their valiant attempts at strong
emotion, and, if need be, covers up small defects
in action. Mrs. Robertson is fortunate in having
as her stage designers \Valter Newcomb and
Robert Charles Metcalf, both young men of out-
standing ability in the technique of set construc-
tion and lighting.

 

  
 

 

BRING
EVERWEAR SAFETY
. . . TO YOUR SWINGS!

The New EverWear Spring—Rubber Safety Seat for
Swings. No. SR-206. (United States and Canadian
Patents Pending) cushions every blow and prevents
serious accidents. It is made of an ingenious ar-
rangement of special. EverWear-designed. fabric—re-
enforced. tough. springy. long-wearing. tubular. tire
stock rubber. which is so assembled in combination
with spring steel, as to give a soft. springy. resilient.
swing seat of remarkable safety. strength and
durability.

All outside surfaces of the seat are springy rubber:

SAFETYI All top and bottom surfaces are corru-
gated to prevent slipping: SAFETY! All edges are

. soft, springy. and resilient: SAFETY! All ends

bend easily under any blow or pressure (but im-
mediately spring back to their normal shape after
the pressure is removed): SAFETYI No metal
parts are exposed where they can become dangerous:
SAFETY! No wood enters its construction: it can-
not warp. split nor splinter: SAFETY! Requires
no painting.

Suspension clevises are reversible. making both sides
of the seat available for use (this feature doubles the

life of the seat): DURABILITY! Rubber tough.
long-wearing tire stock: DURABILITY! Spring
steel is painted to resist rust: DURABILITY!
Built to withstand heavy weights (tested under an
active load of 950 pounds): STRENGTH! Edge-

ways. the seat can be sprung or bent under pressure
or blows (adding further to its SAFETY!) .

Weighs 5% pounds (light for the rugged require-
ments of its service): SAFETY! Priced within
reach of every buyer who values SAFETY on the
playground ($4.50 each. net. f. o. b. Springfield.
Ohio. U. S. A. Price subject to change without
notice) : ECONOMY!

Investigate The New EverWear Spring-Rubber
Safety Seat for Swings. Buy them to replace old
swing seats. Specify them for all new swing outfits.

NOW ! !
BRING EVERWEAR SAFETY
. . . TO YOUR SWINGS!

Manufactured by

The EverWear Manufacturing Company
Springfield. Ohio. '0'. S. A.

The World's oldest and largest exclusive maker of play-
ground. beach and pool apparatus; a complete line of the

SAFEST and most DURABLE recreation apparatus made.

305

 
 

306 A COMMUNITY CHILDREN’S THEATRE

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

DIAMOND

lnsfell Diamond Pitching Horseshoe couris
on your pleygroond for e popular geme
fhef costs little to maintain. Diamond shoes
end eccessories ere preferred by pleyers
everywhere. Beginners find Diemond shoes
eesy to pitch end old-timers demand them.
Accurefely nude—perfectly belencod—
will not creek or chip.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 GRAND AVENUE . . DULUTH. MINN.

By the use of vivid pageantry in her plays, Mrs.
Robertson is building in the minds of these chil-
dren a consciousness of beauty and an artistic ap-
preciation which will remain with them always. It
is well to remember that they will compose the
audiences of the future, and upon the audience,
depends the success of every little theatre.

There are no “stars” in this theater; individual
performance is justly subordinated to group ac-
tivity, and every child who comes to the try-outs
{ publicly announced in the newspapers), is given
something to do in the next play, even if it means
that the patient and versatile director has to write
a part for him before the first rehearsal. There
are children in the group who are lame, some who
stutter, some who are deaf; there are rich, and
there are poor, but all are chosen regardless of
class or condition. One of the most beneficial
functions of the children's theatre is its correc-
tive one, and for that reason Mrs. Robertson
strives doubly with the physically or mentally de-
fective child.

The ultimate aim of the children's theatre is
recreation and education combined, with the fol-
lowing intermediate objectives: first, to develop

 

self-reliance; second, to develop power to act in
an emergency, and third, to develop the ability
to work well with other people. There are many
ways in which these objectives are achieved aside
from the actual participation on the stage in a
play. The children assist the technicians in build-
ing and painting scenery, and help their playmates
to learn their lines at rehearsals.

Latest educational methods are used in the
training of children in the theatre, so that there is
a very close tie-up between it and the public schools
of the city. Rehearsals are so timed that different
groups of children rehearse on consecutive days
in order that the work shall not prove too con-
fining for them. Those who are in charge of these
rehearsals realize that the children are out of
school when they come, and ready to have fun;
consequently they are not unduly restrained, but
are allowed to play as much as they like, provid-
ing they do not interfere with the players who are
saying their lines on the stage.

The activities of the Palo Alto Community
Children's Theatre are self-supporting, aside from
the salary of the director, which is paid by the
City of Palo Alto through the Community Center
Commission, a regular branch of municipal gov-
ernment. It is hotlsed in the new community thea-
tre building, a gift of Mrs. Louis Stern, a local
resident, and works alongside the adult Commun-
ity Players organization, which gives unselfish aid
and support to the younger group. Palo Alto is
rightfully proud of its theatre, modern in every
respect, and of the two fine dramatic organiza-
tions which it fosters'. By adhering to deeply-
grotmded democratic ideals, and by following the
sound principles developed in little theatres all
over this country, they are bound to assume a
position of importance among amateur theatrical
groups on the Pacific Coast.

What Are Education Frills?

(Continued from page 2.73)

encouraged, guided :° few things would be re-
quired. almost everything would be offered : what-
ever was used. and used to good advantage, would
then become the "fundamentals" and whatever
was little used, used with pain and little profit,
would become the educational “frills” and should
become the first to be eliminated.

America needs and must have an efficient school
system. one which prepares all the people for ef-
ficient earning and rich living. Our school sys-
tent must be based upon a political philosophy in

LIBRARIES IN COMMUNITY BUILDINGS

keeping with our national ideals and necessities
and upon an educational philosophy in keeping
with the same basic forces. we must choose
wisely and well our administrative machinery and
must scrutinize with care every offering of the
curriculum. Teacher-service, pupil-time, and tax-
payer’s money are all too scarce to waste on any
non-functioning, time-wasting, death-dealing ma-
terial—material which contributes little while it is
being taught and less in life after school days are
over. Any subject in the curriculum could be
such. - Under such conditions, such a subject
would then be a “frill.” Considered on this basis
and this alone, I join the chorus and say “away
with the frills!”

Folk Culture and Leisure

(Continued from page 279)

haps started something with the makings in it of
a really national institution, too large for parochial
ambitions, and with a prophecy of a coming folk
culture to meet the demand for a new leisure.

Libraries in Community Buildings
(Continual from page 282)

the opportunity offered to make books accessi-
ble and available to all of the local residents.

The Hershey (Pennsylvania) Community
Plant comes nearer to the realization of per-
fect community participation in every kind of
recreation than any that were studied. It is a
dream of the Hershey Chocolate Manufactur-
ing Company to make life worthwhile for the
peOple connected with their plant. The com-
munity building is only one unit in this philan-
thropic enterprise. It occupies six acres, and
again the library is but one of the social serv-
ice agencies housed under one roof. There are
dormitories, a hospital, gymnasium, pool, and
theater, but so well planned that each is dis-
tinct from the other, tied together by the great
social hall in the center. The two library rooms
are in one wing, opening on the broad terrace,
with a door leading directly from the reading
room into the social hall. The library, with its
beautiful furniture and colorful bindings, is ac-
cessible to the thousands who indulge in rec-
reation under the hospitable roof. Reading is
as much fun as swimming, the theater, or bas-
ketball, and a pleasant relaxation after strenu-
ous exercise. The librarian and assistants are
as important in the programs planned for lei-
sure hours as the coach, the playground di-

307

 

 

 

Bright

  

Clean

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

ROTECTING children ot ploy is the aim-

of the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the don-
gers ond dirt in dust! It's so eosy end
it costs next to nothing.

An opplicotion ofSolvoy Floke Colcium
Chloride on grove! or eorth surfoces
effectively ends the dust nuisonce. And
Solvoy Colcium Chloride kills germs.
The photomicrogrophs pictured here
show you the results. 347cultures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the some dust
treoted with Solvay Colcium Chloride.

Germs
in Dust

   

Before treatment After treotm ent

Make this a dustless outdoor season
on your playgrounds. Send today for
full information and booklet No. “59.

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

a. ._... Alkaliesond Chemical Products Monufoc.
 tured by The Solvoy Process Company

%

Cnhomnn

 

6| Broadway New York

TRADE MARK REG U S. PAT OFF

ALCIUM

FlAKE—77%—80%

 

 

SUNSHINE
RESH AIR

0 LVAY

 

308 SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHILDREN'S PLAYGROUND

  

SWIMMING POOL DATA.
AND REFERENCE ANNUAL

1934 Edition

(formerly Notable Swimming Pools and Guide tu
Equipment and Supplies)

    
   
     
 
   
      
   
  

Price $2.00

  

WATER GAMES, WATER STUNTS,

LEGAL DECISIONS, LIABILITY, IN-
SURANCE, POOL DESIGN, POOL SAN-

ITATION, POOL MANAGEMENT. ETC.

   

l-loiiman-l—larris, lnc.
non Fourth Avenue New Yorlz City

rector, or the symphony conductor. The cost
is budgeted among all in group—-—a distinct
saving.

It is evident from this brief survey that,
given the right conditions, a library may be
located in a community building and share the
varied activities to its distinct advantage. To
sum up: In certain sections of large and con-
gested cities a branch library will cost less and
attract more people if it is housed with some
other recreational activity, but its location in
the building must be chosen with due regard to
noise and confusion.

In small towns or villages, the library will
have a far better chance of survival if it shares
the many recreational diversions that are of-
fered to adults as well as children. Lacking
formality and an institutional atmosphere, it
should still maintain its integrity as an intel-
lectual factor and not spread its service in too
many directions. Above all, the quarters
should be planned to resist noise and have an
air of semi-seclusion and restfulness, where the
eager mind may grow and expand under the in-
fluence and guidance of the librarian and good
books.

A word of warning should also be given, that
unless the librarian has an opportunity to plan
the library quarters, arrangements for storage,
work space shelving, and the seating of readers
may be entirely inadequate. Ventilation and
lighting are also problems which must be given
careful consideration by the librarian and, if
possible, the attention of an expert in these

fields.

Space Requirements For the

Children's Playground
(Continued from page 293)

by a careful scheduling of hows of use; other
features such as the wading pool and shelter
house can be considerably enlarged without pro-
portionately increasing the total space which must
be reserved for them. Therefore as the preceding
table indicates, a playground space standard ex-
pressed in terms of square feet per child must

vary according to the number of children to be
served.

There are several important considerations that
are essential to an application of the preceding
table. One is that these are minimum desirable
standards. Perhaps the most important is that
not only present but probable future child popu—
lation, as nearly as can be estimated, should be the
basis for determining a neighborhoods playground
needs.

Again, since it seems evident that doubling the
child population does not mean that twice as large
a playground will be needed, the question arises
as to whether it is not preferable to have a smaller
number of large playgrounds at wider intervals
rather than to have more playgrounds of the
"standard" size. This question is all the more
pertinent because it is reasonable to believe that
the cost of laying out and equipping a large play-
ground will bc less per square foot than in the
case of a smaller playground. Furthermore, up to
a given point administration and maintenance
costs are likely to be relatively less on the larger
playground. It must be kept in mind, however,
that the function of the playground is to serve the
needs of the children living within an effective
drawing radius. To extend this radius to the point
where it reduces attendance or deprives children
of regular use of the playground merely to save
space or money is to defeat the major purpose of
providing playgrounds. Furthermore greater dif-
liculty is likely to be encountered in schring one
properly located large area than in acquiring two

PONTIAC SCHOOLS .45 COMMUNITY CENTERS 309

smaller ones. On the other hand, where the child
population in a given neighborhood is very dense
and especially where it is served by a single ele—
mentary school, there may be a real advantage in
having one large playground rather than two
smaller areas. It is reasonable to believe that ex—
cept for very scattered neighborhoods or where
small schools are unwisely located, an adequate
playground should be provided at or near every
elementary school even though the child p0pula—
tion it serves is less than 600.

Pontiac Schools As Community

Centers
(Continued from page 294)

sistence, the question of the use of their en—
forced leisure became an acute and crucial
one. Conditions were ripe for discontent of
a serious nature. \Vith nothing to do but
brood over and resent their tragic plight, the
minds of thousands of men were fertile soil
for all forms of disintegrating propaganda.

In this crisis the free use of the school plants
for recreational, entertainment and instruc-
tional purposes became a “safety valve” of in—
estimable worth. It is probable that few peo-
ple, even in Pontiac, appreciate the construc-
tive and community—saving value of these di-
verting activities.

Only by visualizing, or attempting to visual-
ize, the potentialities involved in the economic
situation and what might have been the result
if these facilities did not exist or if a narrow,
schools-for-children—only policy had been
adopted, can one appreciate what the policy
of throwing the schools open as community
centers has meant to the City of Pontiac in the
way of stabilizing its distressed people and
diverting their minds from their troubles.

Education For Leisure
(Continued from page 296)
magazines on leisure time topics? If so, list kind
or types of magazines you would like to find
there, as books or magazines on art, needlework,
finishing woodwork, home decoration,. vegetable
gardening, etc.” It was the feeling of those in
charge of this study that a leisure time depart-
ment in the public library would be a great serv-
ice to those seriously interested in making profita—
ble use of leisure. There were 63 replies to this
suggestion—not quite all of them favorable. We

quote a few of the most interesting and significant:

Yes. “I think it would be a good thing to have
a leisure time department with a variety of books
and magazines. Everyone has a hobby.”

Yes. “I would like to have such a department
and books on all vocations should be put there.”

Yes. “Any practical works pertaining to home
economics, city government.”

No. “I have more work at home which is
more of interest to me than anything else and I
haven’t any time for outside foolishness.”

Yes. “Television.”

Yes. “Needlework, costuming, puppetry, books
on journalism and writing.”

Yes. “Household science, gardening, art, fin-
ishing woodwork, kindergarten, needlework, home
decorations, music, vocal and instrumental.”

Yes. “Nursing magazines, historical maga-
zines.” Altogether, thirty different subjects were
mentioned in the replies to this question.

The Conclusions

The question should now be answered, “What
conclusions are to be drawn from this analysis
and study of the leisure time values of the com-
mon school curriculum?” Briefiy, they seem to us
to be the following:

First, where broadly laid out, and richly fur—-
nished with extra-curricular material, the present
curriculum is quite rich in leisure time values. It
lays a rich background for the enrichment of lei-
sure time in adult life whether such effort be in-
dividual, or through systematic organizations such
as the one assembled here today.

Second, this study seems to show plainly that
many of the subjects of study lately referred to
as “fads and frills” rank at the very top of the
list for their leisure time values, and their elimina-
tion from the curriculum would constitute an
educational tragedy.

Third, our educational system is failing to a
large degree to realize the possibilities in the lei-
sure time values of the various subjects of study
because such values are not yet understood. If
these values were better understood by teachers
and pointed out to the pupils the transfer of train-
ing and its retention would be better. Teachers
should add the leisure-time-value emphasis to
every subject in the curriculum whenever pos-
sible. This will add a new zest and motivation to
the work for both teacher and pupil.

Fourth, it is probable that some new subject
matter should be added to the curriculum to in—
crease leisure time values.

310 A CENTER FOR YOUTH

Fifth, and finally, if the leisure time value of
the various school subjects were more thoroughly
understood by the general public, such knowledge
would go far to recapture that hold upon the pub-
lic imagination which the public schools of
America have always so richly deserved.

A Center for Youth

(Cautium'd from page 297)
tivities such as baseball, hiking and picnicking.

Membership and Attendance

From December 15th, when the center was
Opened, to March I 5th there were 651 individual
memberships (membership cards are issued to
those who are out of school and over eighteen
years of age). Six hundred other young people
who had no membership cards used the center.
The total attendance up to March I 5th was 30,000.

Financing the Project

From the budget of the Recreation Depart-
ment an appropriation of $3,070.55 was allotted,
leaving $1,500 to be raised to complete the amount
needed for the year's work. This includes the ex-
penses of janitor service, coal, light and equip-
ment. It is hoped to raise this money in a num-
ber of ways. A play, “Musical Mosaic,” written
and staged by the young people of the center and
directed by one of their members, will be pre-
sented for four nights. Tickets will be sold at 15
cents for children and 30 cents for adults. An-
other play, “The Servant in the House,” will be
presented by the Youth Council, a grOUp com-
posed of young people of the churches. It is
' hoped that a considerable sum of money will be
raised from the Lakewood Exposition which will
be held this summer on the grounds of the center.

Another money raising project will be a large
bridge party of 500 tables at $2.00 a table to be
managed by the presidents of the various organiza-
tions furnishing the rooms. Still another s0urce
of revenue is to be found in the rental of rooms
in the center by outside organizations.

Members of two of the classes—boxing and
fencing—pay $2.00 for ten weekly classes. The
rest of the classes are free. Each class decides
what it wishes to take up, and if material is needed
the members pay for it.

Placing Reaponsibility
\\'e have found that .a responsible older person
must be at the center a! of! times. \Ve have 'also
found that the young people can successfully
carry through a small project with some guidance,

but they are not capable of handling large affairs
alone. Their spirit is splendid but they need in-
direct and direct advice. They have not had train-
ing or experience in organizing people, and only a
few are willing to take responsibility. The pro-
ject, however, is deve10ping and training some
very fine leadership.

Not long ago we had a stunt night for which
the young people took full responsibility. At the
last minute they would come and say: “So and
so cannot come. \V hat shall we do ?” My answer
was: “You are handling this; think and then act
accordingly.” W'e insisted on their carrying the
project through without help. In some instances
they have fallen down badly; in others where re-
sponsible people were in charge they have been
very successful. It has been a great lesson in taking
responsibility and in choosing their committees.
They have decided, however, that they need the
help of experienced people in organization.

The Values of Parks and Playgrounds

(Cantiuucd {ram page 299)
sense of human relationships which is absolutely

necessary to wholesome living. The playground
provides wholesome means of social relationship
during the formative period of a child's life and
develops the quality of self-control which is badly
needed in these days, and without which democ-
racy cannot continue. Supervised playgrounds
are of the utmost necessity in every city and town
throughout the country for the development of
our yOUng pe0ple along the lines of social virtue.

The Wandering Sport Teacher

in Germany
(C outiuucd from page 300)
Rural Youth Committee pays the traveling
costs to and from the district and the balance
of the salary. The clubs or the villages or other
organizations provide f0r board and lodging;
in most cases some one volunteers to entertain

the teacher.

The Day’s Program

(a) Morning:

Instruction in the schools, including upper
classes of neighboring schools in the vicinity

(b) Afternoon: '

Course for teachers with practical exercises
or instruction in the rural continuation schools
and in other rural organizations, or courses
for the unemployed and those in voluntary work
service (arbcitsdieust)

 

THE I’VANDERING SPORT TEACHER IN GERMANY 311

(c) Evening:

Exercise in the open until dark

Exercise in the gymnasium of a sport club

(Interested persons in the district must be
invited.)

Even though the work in the country re-
quires a maximum use of the sport teacher’s
time, it should not, the sponsors feel, exceed
six to seven hours daily. \Vhen possible, Sun-
day should be a day of rest or for promoting
interest in physical education. Such meetings
should be open to all people, and prominent
persons and officials should be asked to attend
in order to assure their co-operation.

Lectures, lantern slides and moving pictures

are recommended to supplement the practical
course. °

Values of the Plan

Because of the economic depression the
gymnastic and sport movement in Germany
has suffered severely, especially in the country
where it is seriously threatened by lack of
trained leaders and adequate athletic fields

Playground Safety Material is Now
Available For Your Use

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE

brings you each month

Posters

Graded lesson plans
Stories

Plays

Informational articles
Safety club activities

Special Safety Packet for Playground

Directors — $1.00

With Safety Education Magazine —- $1.75

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE
ONE PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK

One Year $1.00
Two Years $1.75

The financial difficulties in which the rural
population finds itself allow little opportunity
for proper appreciation of the value of physical
education. For this reason a great part of
the rural youth is not included in the national
gymnastic and sport movement. The sending
of a training leader or a member of an athletic
club to an eight to fourteen day continuation
course at a gymnastic or sport institute is im-
possible under present day conditions for any
but the most affluent athletic clubs.

For the great number of weaker rural clubs,
therefore, the most effective way of securing
the needed stimulation at little cost is through
the wandering training course which takes
place in the country and whose stimulatiOn is
direct, awakening interest in physical educa—
tion among the masses of the population and
strengthening the morale of the smaller clubs
through the personal contact it gives. It in-
cludes the entire rural population of the dis-
trict and arouses interest everywhere. The
courses, which have proved very valuable, are
continually being expanded.

We Wat Our Turn

it for

     
       

   

in!
q

_ wanmammmm

‘t‘ %

   

Enclosed find ........................................ ..for which please send SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE beginning

with the ........................................... ..issue.

Enclosed find $1.75 for SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE and the Special Playground Packet.

Name .................................. ..
Address ................................ ..
City and State ...................... ..

o o o o o o o o u o o o o u o I o o I O o I o I I o I o I o O I o o o O o o o o o O o o o I o I o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o.

New Books in the Leisure Time Field

 

Leadership in Group Work

Baal-zfenry .\I. Busch. Association Press. New York.
...... a.

Ix THIS 3001: Professor Henry Busch has presented
the results of his experiences in dealing with a wide
variety of groups of children, young people and adults,
including groups in the Christian Associations. Pioneer
Youth of America. Boy Scouts. Girl Scouts, Woodcraft
League and other organizations. One chapter of the
book. "Leisure Time and Group \Vork." will be of spe-
cial interest to recreation workers. In it Professor
Busch points out some fundamental changes needed if
group work as it has been developed is to deal com-
petently with the new leisure. He urges the importance
of recreation. “Leisure time is crucial in affecting child
character." he says. “especially because children respond
powerfully to social approvals from other children . . .
\Vell directed leisure time of children should produce
hne character results. Undirected leisure time activities
threaten the social well-being of the child . . . Commu-
nities must provide adequate recreation facilities and
leadership if delinquency is to be combated and good
character developed."

Summary of Handcraft and Hobbyl
Activities
Church Handcraft Service. 115-93 223rd Street. St. Al-
bans. New York. $.25.
HE PURPOSE of this mimeographed summary is to list
and briefly explain the different types of craft work
and hobbies which may be used in clubs and groups.
Suggestions as to expense. special equipment needed and
similar matters are included to aid the leader in select-

ing activities suitable for his group. All types of hand-
craft are mentioned.

A Player's Handbook

By Samuel Selden. F. S. Crofts and Company.‘New
York. $2.75.
Tms vswaaut BOOK on the theory and practice of
acting has been written from notes collected through
eleven years of practical observation of professional
and non-professional stages. It has a twofold pur-
pose: (I) To stimulate and guide the aetor apprentice
in forming a working theory concerning the playing
of a dramatic role in the theater. and (2) to show
him how the principles of this theory may be ap-
plied through the development of technical skill. The
headings of the chapters will show how the book pro-
gresses from principle to practice: I. The "Art of Act-
ing”: II. Communication and Response: III. Training
for Expressiveness—The Body: IV. Training for Ex-
pressiveness—The Voice; V. Playing the Part: VI. The
Actor and His Director. In this section are to be found
the exercise materials oovering body control. pantomimic
sketches. vocal control. reading selections. and exercise
in character development.

312

Manual of Nursery School Practice

By Iowa Child Welfare Research Station. University

of Iowa. Iowa .City. SLOO.

ms MANUAL of Station preschool practice. under-

taken primarily as a source of orientation to new
teachers and workers. is appropriate for the most part
for all persons interested in establishing and maintaining
a nursery school. The detailed information it gives
makes it an exceedingly valuable guide to nursery school
activities and administration. Illustrations add to the
attractiveness and usefulness of the volume.

' Negro-White Adiustmont

By Paul E. Baker. Ph.D. Association Press. New York.
$3.00.

oxcaax roa RACE ADJusrstzxr between white and

colored Americans has manifested itself in the for-
mation of various interracial agencies and programs.
Mr. Baker has studied the ten agencies concerned. the
policies to which they are committed and the way these
policies work out in actual situations. He shows the
duplication of effort and method. of policy and goal.
and summarizes and interprets the results achieved by
a close examination of some forty cases of actual situa-
tions where the agencies have applied their methods and
philosophies to Negro-white problems. The final chap-
ter of conclusions and recommendations clearly demon-
strates the timely value of this book. '

 

 

Omcers and Direcrors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS
osartt Laa. President
om: II. thuv. First Vice-President
our: 6. Winner. Seeond Vice-President
toaaar Gaaarrr. Third Vice-President
Gustavus T. Klan. Treasurer
Howaao S. Baaucnta. Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mas. Eowuo W. Btoou. Csrlisle Pa.
Wtuau Burraawoartt. Moline. Ill.
Cuaaxca M. Ct.“ a. Philadelphia. Pa.
Iiaxav L. CDIIIT‘I' Portland. Ore.
Mas. Aatttua G. Cuuttta, Jacksonville. Fla.
F. Tauaaa Dawson. Locust Valle . L. 1.. N. Y.
Mas. Tnosus A. EDISON, West range. N. J.
{tome II. FINLIY. New \ork. N. Y.

oaaa‘r Gaaaa‘r‘r. Baltimore. .‘Id.
Ausrtx Ii. Gatrrtttts. Seattle. Wash.
\YILLIAM Ilau IIaaaxass. New York. N. Y.
Cnaaus Ilnoax. New York. N. Y.
Mas. CHAILII V. Iltexox. Michigan Citz. Ind.
.‘Ias. Faaxcts DILACY Ilvoa'I Plaintield. t'. J.°
GUITAVUI T. Rtsar New York. N. Y.
n. MeK. [48008. indianapolis. Ind.
.‘Ias. Cnaaus D. Lanna. Greenwich. Conn.
Roarar Lasstrza. Charlotte. N. C.

osartt Laa. Boston. Mass.

.owaao l-L. Looms. New York N. Y.
M1. hIcCuaov. Springfield. slm

o T. Mama". Philadelphia. Pa.

Wants A. Mar. Pittsburgh. Pa.
CAN. E. .‘IILLIKIW. Au una. Me.
Mas. Oeoax I- LItLLs. Yoodhury. N. Y.
Mas. urn W. Wanswoattt. Ja.. Washington. D. C.
, C. Vaun New York. N. Y.

aeoaatea Ml. Waaauae. New York. N. Y.
“but: 6. thsxr. ConeOrd. N. If.

ss. \VILLIAII II. Wooorx. 1a.. Tucson. Arts.

