Adult Life Enrichment

HAT HAS HAPPENED to the Depression? Has it disappeared? Unfortunately, not yet. There
w are still several millions of pe0ple out of work. Millions of others still have only part-time

or occasional employment. The plight of the former remains unsolved or at best only par—
tially solved. Industry. generally speaking. is Still “in the woods.” Its future is unpredictable. Never-
theless. almost to a man. we nourish great h0pes. For we have seen great changes come to pass and
we anticipate still greater changes with something more than mere vain eXpectation. Above all, less
and less talk of depression is heard. From Maine to California the American pe0ple have ceased to
wring their hands and have set to work constructively to solve their problems of life and living.

Has the Depression taught us anything? Entirely aside from the economic lessons learned. I
believe that the experiences of the last four years have also taught many moral lessons. As an ex-
ample. let me tell you the experience of one man I know. more or less in his own words:

“I used to make.” he related. “more than one hundred dollars a week. Now I am fortunate if
I can average thirty-five. Yet it seems to me that I am fundamentally just as well off. My family
and I have been taught to do without many things. really luxuries. which we formerly regarded as
necessities. Somehow we don’t miss them nearly so much as we thought we should.

“Take the automobile as an example. When I lost my old job. I had to sell my car. This
seemed like a real hardship at first but I soon found out how much genuine pleasure and good exercise
I had been missing by riding all the while instead of walking. On Sunday afternoons a long motor
ride used to be the regular program for my family. Now we walk. Occasionally we take a Street car
and go off into the country. There we stroll through woods and fields ‘standing at ease in Nature’
as Whitman says. We could have done this before. The fact remains. we didn’t. On the contrary. we
hurried along from place to place. seeing little. observing less.

“This simple recreation has also provided me with a hobby. something I sadly lacked before.
The hobby is botany. Understand I am no Burbank nor can I lay claim to a deep scientific knowl—
edge of flora. However. in my spare time I have collected nearly one hundred different varieties of
common plants. besides three or four varieties somewhat rarer. hereabouts.

“I read much more now than I used to and there is infinitely greater purpose in my reading.

In 1931 I entered the public library of the town I live in for the first time in years. Since then.
however. I have been a regular visitor. On the other hand. and quite in contrast to past habits. I go
to the movies very rarely. One reason is the cost. Another. perhaps the more compelling one. is that
the movies no longer satisfy me as they did. My wife and I are beginning to demand something
more mentally stimulating than the average output of Hollywood. All in all. I think hard times
have benefited us. Making a living is not the all important thing it used to be. Enjoying life, in
the true sense of living it more richly. has become our aim instead.”

I know this man’s experience is not an unusual one. Millions of others have been likewise forced
by the turn of events to a similar reconstruction of values. These people have paused to take stock of
themselves. They have thus discovered a fresh appeal in simple pleasures. Thousands. too. have
turned to the study of some subject which may afford a new occupation or an inexpensive recrea-
tion. Their leisure time has been enriched. The Depression has taught them age—old lessons anew and
in this way has given more than it has taken away.

J AMES A. MOYER

Division of University Extension
Massachusetts Department of Education

 

DECEMBER I934

 

413

 

Ht

Progress in the Art of Living

By ARTHUR E. MORGAN

HE PAST YEAR has been a somewhat strenuous
T one for 011r organization. The area we have

had to cover is large, the issues we have
had to deal with are many, and our entire staff
has been working pretty much to capacity,
without much opportunity for leisure or
recreation.

About a month ago I went for a few days up
to Antioch College where the faculty was just re—
turning from a ten weeks’
summer vacation. I at-

ground. He said it was because he did it in ten
months.

Recreation, An Essential for Balanced Life

Recreation is not a casual thing; it is an essen-
tial for a well-balanced life. On the other hand,
it should be part of a well—balanced life and not
the main issue.

We commonly get excited over our own call-
ings. They come to seem
extremely important to

tended the first meeting
of that faculty. As I
looked them over, there
was evident a freshness,
a re-creation of energy,
and a readiness for a
year’s work that was in
contrast to the somewhat
tired out group that I had
left behind in the Ten-
nessee Valley.

Seeing those people
there, I felt that I had a
very excellent illustration

In introducing Dr. Morgan. Otto T. Mallery.
President of the Playground and Recreation As-
sociation of Philadelphia. said: "After the great
Dayton flood a man arose. an engineer. to pre-
vent a similar catastrophe. The engineering may
have been difficult. but the unprecedented part
was securing the cooperation of many counties
and many towns. many iurisdictions. many of-
ficials. and forming one district and one financial
plan to prevent the flood. After that work was
completed the engineer turned educator and de-
veloped Antioch College. which profoundly af-

fected educational theory and practice.

"Now his mind swings into the art of living and
what progress may be made there. In his present
capacity as Chairman of the Board of Directors
of the Tennessee ValleyHAuthority. the art of

living will make progress.

us, and we often have the
feeling that the world
cares so little for our
callings, for our interests,
that there are so many
forces driving in the other
direction—that we need
have no concern about
other interests; we can
put our whole energy and
life into our own, and the
rest of the world will
furnish the balance and
the check and restraint
upon it.

of the necessity of recre-
ation. Those people are,
on the whole, ready for a year’s work, full of
spirit and energy and desire for it.

Our people in the Tennessee Valley are loyal,
working regardless of hours, putting everything
they have into that job, and yet, unless we can so
arrange their program that a reasonable share of
release, of vacation and recreation can come in,
we will have managed badly, because in the course
of a year we will be losing that keen edge of in-
terest and zest which only line physical and men-

tal condition can bring.
As I saw those faculty members fresh from

their summer’s release, I was reminded of the re-
mark of a business man in New York who is
known to cover a great deal of work within the

year. Someone asked how, year after year, he was
able to sustain himself and to cover so much

I think that philosophy
is a false one wherever we find it. There are no
evils so bad that we can afford an unrestrained
opposition to them. There are no virtues so line
that we can afford to give ourselves unrestrain-
edly to them. A good part of the energies of men
is used up in checking and counteracting the
streams of other men.

Most radicals will tell you that they really
would rather not be so radical, but that they must
because the conservatives are so conservative they
have to overcome that opposition. Most conserva-
tives will tell you that in their heart they are with
you, if you happen to be a liberal, but they just
can’t loosen up at all because the radicals are so
strong that they must overcome that stream. That
tendency for us to give ourselves unreservedly to
one attitude or outlook because some other one

4.15.

4l6 PROGRESS IN THE ART OF LIVING

will check it naturally— that attitude is not a
sound one. It is not sound in recreation any more
than in any other field.

Psychology of Servitudc Pcrsists

Speaking of recreation and play for small chil-
dren and for adolescents, I think that is true. The
world has been a world of servitude for a long
time. The psychology of servitude is still with us.
There is no danger but that we shall have to work
enough—life will take care of that—and so we will
give our attention to recreation. That is to some
extent the psychology which has come over from
an economy of scarcity.

Some time ago I knew of a young woman, very
well to do, who yet took upon herself some fairly
heavy and strenuous work, and she was living a
life of economy and was doing everything she
could to count in the field of that work. A little
account of her work was in one of the newspapers.

I saw a letter written about her by a young
woman, a factory worker. This factory worker
said, "Isn’t she the fool—to think of having all of
that money and then workingl If I had that money
I never would work for another day.”

Now, that is the psychology that hangs over
from ages of servitude and from an economy of
poverty. That can have too great support. Many
a parent has said, “In my boyhood (or girlhood) I
had no pleasure, I had no play, I had no recrea-
tion, and I am going to see that my children are
protected from the life that I had to lead.”

I think that there is a very decided danger to-
day among pe0ple who are well to do, especially,
that a life of recreation may come to seem im-
perative, that they will come to feel that the world
owes them recreation.

Work Discipline Valuable

During the past two years I have observed
young people, in this case young college people,
who were living on very meager resources, who
nevertheless, as a group, felt that it was impos-
sible for them to give up any opportunity for
recreation.

In one case—the case of a
young woman whose parents
were making the utmost sacri-
fices for her education—this
was drawn to her attention
when she was planning on a
rather expensive auto trip, and
she said, “I know they are
working hard, but they don't

Play is education. In fact, 1 think play
originated as education. Before the
schools were made, children educated
themselves. Every
girl makes with her doll is education
for taking care of her own babies. A
large part of the natural play of boys
is imitation of the work of their fathers.

move that a little

!

want me to go without.’ I think that as impera-
tive and as important as recreation is, we must
see it, not as a world in itself, but as a part of
well-balanced and well-proportioned living.

I have been in hearty sympathy with the spirit
of the child labor amendment to our national con-
stitution and yet I have grave doubts about the
direction which that Spirit has in some of our
states, in the rather arbitrary laws against child
labor, because I am inclined to think that unless
young pe0ple get some of the fibre, some of the
vigor of living, some capacity for hardship, some
capacity for restraint and control, some capacity
for sacrifices, some stamina while they are young
in their teens, it will be too late afterwards.

Recreation is an imperative element in any nor-
mal life. It is our business to discover what that
place is. Play and recreation have various func-
tions. As I see play and recreation, in many cases
they constitute an escape from living. The last
speaker was telling you of conditions in certain
city areas, where the whole of life is so abnormal,
where there is so little of normal opportunity that
play is an effort to forget about life, to make the
days pass and leave them a blank.

Recreation Should Not Be An Opiate

That use of recreation may be necessary per-
haps as an Opiate is necessary for a person who
is deathly sick, to reduce the pain, but it is a
tragic thing that it is so.

As we have tried to work out our program in
the Tennessee Valley Authority, a program which
gets into many fields, many fields of economics,
such as power, the preservation of the soil, for-
estry, the decentralization of industry, the bal-
ancing of industry and agriculture, as we get into
those phases of economic life, and along with
them into phases of social life, we have to deal
with recreation. \Ve see how often recreation is
no more than an escape from living.

It happens that the Tennessee Valley Author-
ity area includes among other parts a considerable
region in which there never has been a prosper-
ous economy. During pre-
Civil War days that area was
occupied by what were called
“poor whites." It was not
suitable for slaveholders to
work white men, and since the
slaveholders controlled the
economy, the white people
were left out; they took to the

PROGRESS IN THE ART OF LIVING 417

hills; they fought for a living
in little valleys and on steep
mountain sides, wherever they
could. Life was very primitive.
There never has been prosper-
ity in many of those regions.

Play and recreation under
such conditions is not much
more than an effort to drown
out the emptiness of living. It
can be true there as well as on
the Chicago streets. '

For that situation, I am not primarily interested
in providing an opiate for living. I think our fun-
damental job there is to try to re-create the con-
ditions of living, so that there can be joy in work-
ing, so that there can be joy in living, so that it
will not be necessary to flee away from living in
drtinkenness or gambling or in any other of the
substitutes for normal experience. So I find my—
self here, there and almost everywhere,. not
greatly concerned over recreation as an escape
from living.

\V hen I first knocked around London, I thought,
“\Vhat a wonderful city this is! There seem to
be more bookstores in London than there are in
the rest of the world.” And then I hung around
those bookstores to see who bought books and
what kind of books they bought, and I came to
the conclusion that in no small degree the
enormous reading of books in London was partly
an escape from living, that life had become so
circumscribed, there was so little of genuine ad—
venture to have, that they escaped into the world
of books out of a world of tawdriness and mo-
notony. I am much more interested in trying to
build a world that will not need that escape than
I am in providing that escape.

TVA Recreation Builds Health

Then, too, another function of play is that of
exercise. Just building up the bodily functions, I
mean. I am one of those people who never could
do his daily dozen. Sometimes I can stick it out
for almost a week, but then the monotony of driv-
ing myself through those motions with no zest.
with no play in it, gets the better of me and I put
it off until I can get out where the spirit of recre-
ation can go along with building my body. And I
believe, for that reason, recreation is imperative.

\Ve are of the opinion, down in the Tennessee
Valley, that taking our population—and I could
take the population of other parts of America——

"The differences in levels of human
culture are primarily differences in
amplitude' inclusiveness, foresight and
thoroughnessI of planning.

"The President sees the Valley Au-
thority as a means for displacing hap-
hazard, unplanned and unintegrated
social and industrial development by
introducing increasing elements of
orderI design and forethought."

—Dr. Arthur E. Morgan.

the development of play there
for both children and adults is
essential to the building of
good bodies, and we are work-
ing along that line.

Play is education. In fact, I
think play originated as edu-
cation. Before the schools
were made, children educated
themselves. Every move that
a little girl makes with her doll
is education for taking care of her own babies.
A large part of the natural play of boys is imi-
tation of the work of their fathers. That is espe-
cially true in primitive societies where they can
live with their fathers. I think we sometimes go
wrong when we think that it isn’t play if there is
any creative residue in it.

I had a friend who taught in a high school in a
rather rough and tumble town. Instead of ordi—
nary forms of recreation, he got an old building
and in it he got some printing presses, and he got
some wood-working outnts, and he got things
that boys play with and work with, rather than
play with in the ordinary sense of the term. He
made it an imperative condition that a boy could
not come there unless he would meet certain
standards of courtesy and decency, and he had ex-
cellent discipline because the boys were so anxious
to come there that they would behave themselves.

Now, to those boys that was just as much play
as the girl with her dolls, or the boys in a primi-
tive commtmity playing at hunting or playing at
building houses. I think we can have all of the
zest of living and all of the joy of play along
with some creative residue, in many instances.

Man Craves the Forest

Sometimes play is an almost necessary thera-
peutic process. \Ve are children of the forest. We
are children of nature. When you take us away
from nature too long, we are like strangers away
from home and there is a constant craving for us
to get back to our instinctive home. The craving
for hunting is such. A man may have lived in the
city, and yet that craving to get back to the home
of his ancestors is strong—to live their lives.
Fishing is the same.

Rough games are the same where the element
of contest comes in, and I believe that it is a
wholesome thing to satisfy that rather deep emo—
tional craving for the functions of primitive men.
But I think over and above all those, the greatest

418 PROGRESS IN THE ART OF LIVING

tuncnon of play is just sheer recuperation. Play
with no aim, no object, only the joy of doing it,
has effects on us that are so deep—seated that we
dare not, we cannot leave that out of a well-
ordered living.

Now we are 5nding what I think America is
finding, and what we need to clearly recognize,
and that is that play must be taught. It is not
learned of itself. I could give you an illustration
that I have used before of that fact. I used to
observe in my work through the southern states
how often the colored boys and girls and men and
women would sit on the porches of their houses.
would sit for hours and hours without play. I
wondered if colored peOple were different from
white people in the lack of an instinct of play.

Some time later I was at a colored institution in
the South, where some live or six years ago some
young women had been sent out to the country
schools to teach the colored children there to play.
They had taught them traditional games and then
had gone away. In the Conrse of six years the
personnel of the children there had changed en-
tirely. It was not more than a four or live year
school, and those in the hrst year had even then
passed on, and yet those games were still living.
They had passed on from the nine year old child
to the eight year old child, and from the eight to
the seven year old child, and became a continuing
tradition of those games.

A little later I was discussing the matter with a
man who is director of race relations in South
Africa. I asked him how it was in Africa as to
children playing, as to colored children playing.
"\Vell," he said, "Of course they play; they have
their old traditional games that apparently have
been in those tribes for centuries. Of course they
play."

Children Must Be Taught Games

And then it dawned Upon me what had hap-
pened in America. In each particular case that a
Negro had been brought to America, there had
been a breaking up of the home and there had
been work under slave conditions, where all of the
old traditions had been broken.

Children had had to grow up

for themselves, without that

tradition, and in that clear
break the old games. the tra-
ditional games of home had

been lost, and there had been
no time to learn new ones.

But I think over and above all those,
the greatest function of play is iust
sheer recuperation. Play with no aim,
no obiect, only the icy of doing it.
has effects on us that are so deep-
seated that we dare not. we cannot
leave that out of a wall-ordered living.

I can take you into parts of our southern
states, in the mountains, where the white people
live. In some of those states the traditional games
are still there; in other communities there are
none. People sit. In the transition from Europe
to America the tradition of play has been broken
and two centuries have not been enough to re-
create it.

To some extent the population of America is
dependent on the people who came here as indi-
viduals. They did not come here as communities.
To a large extent recreation and play is a com—
munity exercise, and where communities didn’t
come, then the community function often disap-
peared, and in America we must learn to play. \Ve
will not discover it by accident.

The National Recreation Association, in its ef-
forts to revive games and recreation of all sorts,
is performing a genuine service. If that service
is well performed, recreation in America can be
On a higher cultural level than in any other coun-
try, for .the reason that here we have cultural
elements from all countries. If we can select from
that great rich mass of cultural elements the ex-
cellencies, the fineness, and weave them into a
new art of play in this country, we can have our
recreation on a higher level than anywhere else.

It is not too high in Europe. I remember read-
ing in one of Ruskin’s books—l have forgotten
which one—a description of a holiday in a Euro-
pean town. He said he saw people stand hour
after hour shooting off horse pistols into the air,
with no skill, no art, no refinement, no culture in
play. As I have knocked about Europe a bit I
have seen games here and there, and the games
on one side of the mountain aren't known on the
other side very often, but there isn't an undue
richness. When the hurdy—gnrdy and the county
fair and the community fairs come to town, the
expressions of recreation there are about as crude
as in a county fair in America.

The art of playing is yet to be developed. The
National Recreation Association has before it the
problem of creating a whole element of our na-
tional life, of creating it as a line art, as a great

element of culture.

TVA Plans for Recreation
That is a part of our job in
the Tennessee Valley Author-
ity: as we try to see the whole
of life there we must see rec-

it in a number of ways.

reation. We are trying to do‘ '

PROGRESS IN THE ART OF LIVING 419

\\'e are building a couple of dams. Instead of
just building dams, we have made a careful se-
lection of workmen; we have tried to have desira-
l)le living conditions; and then we are trying to
create in the ;community of the families of those
workers the conditions of a desirable community.
we have men whose business is recreation who
are trying to bring into the lives of those people
the traditions and the arts of recreation. They are
mostly young men, with their families. \Vhen the
job is done they will scatter to the four winds,
and we h0pe that as they scatter they will take
back with them into their local communities
knowledge of recreational facilities, actual knowl-
edge of games, of skills, of arts that were lost or
never had been possessed. That is one of our
methods.

In building the Norris Dam, we are creating a
lake with eight hundred miles of shore line. It is
customary in such cases to ac-
quire the property just to the
water's edge and to leave the
land around the lake in private
ownership. \Ve are acquiring
a strip a quarter of a mile
around, entirely around that
eight hundred miles of shore
line so that we will have ap—
proximately one hun dred
square miles of public property
for forestry and for play.

On the \Vheele’r Dam, we are also creating a
lake with eight hundred miles of shore line—the
two of them together have sixteen hundred miles
of shore line. we are acquiring the borders with
almost limitless space for camping and for boat-
ing. There are some islands in those lakes and
we are keeping them as preserves for wild ani-
mals and we are trying to set up conditions under
which wild game can develop. We are arranging
for brccding places for fishes so that as an inci-
dent to a power development we can get some of

the by-products of power in the form of
recreation.

Trails in the Wilderness

ln somc cases we are going somewhat further
and are taking some of these wilderness islands or
near-islands that cover a few square miles and are
making footpaths through them, with camping
places nearby, so that in these rugged ridges.
young mountains, people can come and wonder
and be clcar out of civilization, where there are

"The material foundation for all living
is the land. We live on it and travel
over it. From it comes our food, the
clothes we wear, the houses we live in. ‘
the metals we use. We work on the
land and play on the land. Land plan-
ning and land use are the basis of
human economy."

—Dr. Arthur E. Morgan.

no automobiles, only footpaths through the moun-
tains and hills. We are building bridle paths
where there will be a twenty or thirty mile horse-
back trip thrOUgh the woods. In these various
ways we are trying to develop the creative and
recreational facilities of that region. \Ve are try-
ing to set the stage for future generations in which
a love of nature will be strong.

I am inclined to think that the love of nature
is a recent growth. I have traced through poetry,
trying to see how far back it begins to show. You
can go back before Wordsworth and you will
find that the people knew the name of a rose, and
an oak tree, or violet, and about there the knowl—
edge of the world about them ceased.

I think there is coming in the human race a
sensitiveness to those fine forms of beauty that
deserve a setting. and so in our work, as an in-
cident to our work, we are here and there setting
aside savings for posterity, the
most rugged, the most finely
wooded, the most picturesque
spots, and leaving them with-
out roads, without automobile
highways, without hotels——
leaving them there so that the
future generations may have a
sensitiveness to beauty and
may find a place there that is
unspoiled.

All through this region are a large number of
people who never have had an adequate income,
and income is primary. \V e are undertaking there
a program that is just beginning, a program of
stimulating the home arts of these people. A very
considerable number of them have quite highly
developed craftsmanship—in wood, in iron, in
textiles and in pottery. It is our program to bring
in people who speak with some authority, some
genius in design, to work with these people who
have the craft spirit left, to develop products that
will have a market value.

Creative Interests To Be Fostered

But if we can find here and there people with
that fire of creativeness who want to work in tex-
tiles, in pottery and wood and iron, if we can find
here and there people with that fire in them and
can then get them under suitable discipline, suita-
ble training, if we can get them with a sensitive—
ness and then if we can make their work eco-
nomically profitable we will have done something

(Continued on page 453)

 

$wt‘3’l’tT

:ourluy Boston Herald .

E .uu-z CONl-‘RONTED today by a new problem
that a machine civilization has forced upon

our attention and that has been intensified
by the depression. The creative instinct of the
craftsman has been replaced by the monotony of
the specialized machine for the vast majority of
us and the substitution of horse power for man
power with the production of goods in excess of
the consumption of goods has shortened the work
week and increased our free hours. This new
leisure is by no means an entirely new develop-
ment; it has been coming in cumulative fashion
during the past hundred years, but it is only re-
cently that we have become completely conscious
of the need for planning for this change. The
future of our civilization will depend in large
measure on the wisdom and restraint with which
we use the new leisure.

420

Planning for
Recreation in
New Hampshire

By JOHN G. WINANT

In our thought for the future it would
be well for us to stop and ask what kind
of individuals we wish to develop in this
changing and highly complicated world of
ours. It would seem advisable to ask this,
both for the sake of the individuals who
are to live as members of our society and
for the sake of the society which is to
have them as its members. During the
past few years we have been asking this
question in New Hampshire. \\'e are now
striving to answer it. Through our rec-
reational plans we hope to answer it in
part.

New Hampshire a State of
v Natural Beauty

New Hampshire has long been known
for its natural beauty. It is a real vaca-
tion spot and the possibilities for attrac-

tive recreational developments are many and
varied. \\'ith our mountains, woods. lakes and
seashore we seem to have every opportunity to
enjoy nature at its best. The question might pos-
sibly be asked why any recreational planning
should be necessary in a background such as New
Hampshire affords. In order that we may pre-
serve this background for all time there is need
for planning, carefully and wisely done. and I feel
that we have made a good beginning on some long-
time constructive recreational planning which will
exert a strong and happy intiuence upon the lives
of the present generation and which will mean
much for the future.

You will notice that I am not commenting on or
arguing for the need for recreational facilities,
themselves. Anyone who has been close to the
misery of this depression knows that far more

PLANNING FOR RECREATION IN NEW HAMPSHIRE 421

than food, shelter and clothing must be supplied
to meet the wants of people. The need for relief
from mental strain and worry. no one can measure.

People in New Hampshire are interested in
recreation and the use of leisure time not only
because we are conscious that it is an increasing
means of livelihood, but because we realize that
planning for leisure time is part of our job as a
state and the way we plan for it will influence in
a large measure the way we think and the kind of
people that we mean to be. Some one once said
that character was largely a by-product of work.
Work definitely influenced character when most
waking hours were work hours. The use of lei-
sure will also make or break character. And I
think that this same use of leisure will affect our
collective thinking, whether in the spiritual field,
the social field or in the political field. Our opin-
ions are bound to be definitely influenced and the
future of this country shaped by what we now do
in our leisure time.

Recreation and conservation planning have gone
on quietly in many parts of the state for a num-
ber of years, especially in our state forest lands,
but it was not until this past year that funds were
available for us to carry on any extensive new de-
velopments. We feel now that through federal,
state and local funds which have been made avail—
able in the emergency, we have improved our
physical plant and also built up a wider and
deeper understanding of the problems.

Our funds for these recent developments have
been supplied by federal grants — CWA and
FERA—and by PW'A loans. The CCC has con-
tributed greatly to the work in our forest lands.
State funds have been made available, local funds
have been voted in some cases
and gifts of land have been

more than twenty-four hour service. The State
Planning Board, the first to be organized under
the Federal Planning Board, was immediately
drafted into service. The Department of Educa-
tion has worked on projects for adult education.
The New Hampshire League of Arts and Crafts,
organized in 1931, has given opportunity to hun-
dreds of New Hampshire people to make and sell
articles of unusual workmanship. This leisure
time work, as it is often known, has proved in
many instances to be the sole means of livelihood
of the maker.

We have called on the National Recreation As-
sociation for help many times and have always
received prompt and valuable help from many dif-
ferent members of their staff. In the early days
of our recreation planning, L. H. Weir spent sev-
eral months in New Hampshire making a com-—
prehensive study of the recreational needs of the
state—considering how our natural resources, in—
cluding parks, forests, rivers, streams and bathing
beaches could be improved and utilized to serve
the recreational needs of the people.

There was a great need for this because even
in the capital city in which I live, with a popula—
tion of approximately twenty-five thousand, ly-
ing along the Merrimac River, and surrounded by
lakes, with many streams close by that feed into
the Merrimac, there was hardly a single bit of
water that was not contaminated or polluted. It
was almost impossible to find a place for the rec—
reation of the young people and for the old people
to enjoy—even hard to find a place where boys
and girls might swim.

Recreation in the State Forests

Because our recreational development origi-
nated in our state forest
lands many years ago I should

made for this work by towns
and individuals. We find
that in these depression times
the people are giving more
generously to the state than
at any previous time.

State Agencies Have
Cooperated

In“ solving our leisure time
. problem we have used every
available 3 t a t e department
and service at our command.
The New Hampshire For—

estry Commissioner has given

As Governor of New HamphireI Mr.
Winant has given outstanding leader-
ship in the pioneer movement for the
utilization of the land and water areas
of the state for the recreation of the
people. Before the organization of state
planning boards was authorized under
the Federal Planning Board, the impor-
tance of state-wide planning for recre-
ation and conservation had been recog-
nized in New Hampshire.

In addition to his work in New Hamp-
shire, Governor Winant has made a val-
uable contribution to the national recre-
ation movement as the Second Vice-
President and a member of the Board
of Directors of the National Recreation
Association.

like first to speak of these.
Interest in the preservation
of these forest tracts has
long been active. Large areas
have been saved for all time
by the foresight and action
of interested individuals and
state committees and socie-
ties. For a long time the So-
ciety for the Preservation of
New Hampshire Forests has
taken a leading part in con-
servation. The Applachian
Mountain Club has added
much to the enjoyment of

422 PLANNING FOR RECREATION IN NEW HAMPSHIRE

our mountains by its trails
and cabins. The Dartmouth
Outing Club is outstanding
in its work of marking trails.
erecting cabins and further-
ing the love and regard for
the outdoors.

New Hampshire now has
about ninety state forests and reservations, large
and small, with a total acreage of about thirty-
five thousand acres. and over four hundred thou*
sand acres of federal forests. About seventeen
of the state reservations have major recreational
interests and twelve others have present or future
recreational possibilities. Names such as Craw-
ford Notch, Franconia Notch. \Ionadnock, Car-
digan, Kearsarge, \Vcntworth Lake, Forest Lake
and many more are familiar to you if you know
New Hampshire. There are eight important lake
shore reservations. Some of these developments
are for picnic and bathing facilities only, others
provide overnight camping places, sanitary pro-
visions, open air fireplaces, tables and benches
and so forth and adequate parking space for cars.
At least seventy—live miles of foot and horseback
trails are to be built and improved and eighteen
miles of ski trails are planned and partly developed.

Aside from the lands mentioned above there is
the prospect of a large area of submarginal land
becoming state property, and parts of this would
be developed for recreation.

New Hampshire has not only planned to con-
serve her forest lands and lake shores. but has
also given careful attention to the short but valu-
able occan beaches which are enjoyed by so many
peOplc during the summer months. At Hampton
Beach, New Hampshire’s largest seaboard rccrea-
tion center. the highways and buildings along this
portion of the coast have been subjected to ex-
tensive damage by seasonal storms, requiring the
expenditure of considerable sums of money by
both the state of New Hampshire and private in-
dividuals. For the protection of this shore a sea
wall has been constructed which will halt the en-
croachment of the sea and will safeguard the rec-
reational facilities of the beach. The beach itself
has been taken over by the state. jctties have also
been constructed to prevent tide and erosion from
breaking down the sandy shore line.

Recent Municipal Recreation Developments

A rather new undertaking along recreational
lines for New Hampshire has been her municipal

"We shall not be con-tent in the country
until we have leaders in every rural
community who may teach us the ways
of nature. lead us in our studies, and
bring us together in more abundant rec-

reational life and social living."—C. B.
Smith, Chief, Extension Service, United
, States Department of Agriculture.

developments. T h e s e have
been extensive, expensive and
have taken much planning
and a great deal of work. I
shall mention a few of the
important projects: At Dover
the state purchased forty-
three acres of land along the
’aellamy River. Here a dam has been constructed,
creating a pond one hundred by eight hundred
feet; bath house facilities have been provided and
a playhcld has been laid out with facilities for
tennis, handball and baseball and with bleachers
seating two thousand people.

At Hauovcr a concrete dam will provide an ar-
tilicial lake about one-half mile long. The neces-
sary facilities will be built for this development.

At Kingston near the Massachusetts line the
State purchased a tract of forty-four acres adja-
cent to the town. There is nearly one-half mile
of shore front on Great Pond. A central bath
house has been built and a beautiful park with
wonderful pine and hardwood growth has been
laid out with many different recreational activities.

ln Manchester. the largest city in the state and
an industrial community. the relief load has been
very heavy and it was felt that a large proportion
of C\\'A money should be placed there. The park
area of the city was increased by the purchase of
four big parcels of land. Each one was made a
major rccrcational project. \Vhittemore Flats, so-
called, is about thirty-five acres and is to be laid
out as a playficld. The Driving Park in the south
end is a typical city park with playing fields and
can accommodate a great many people. Rock Rim-
mon Park on the west bank of the river, formerly
owned by the city of Manchester, has had nincty-
eight acres added to it. An attractive modern
swimming pool eighty by two hundred and eighty
feet has been constructed as well as a bath and
rest house of stone and timbers. The water in the
pool is controlled by a rc-circnlatiug system with
filters and chlorinators and is supplied by the city
main. The pool will accommodate one thousand
people and has been used to its full capacity from
the first day it was opened.

The fourth project is at Dorr’s Pond in the
northeast section of the city. It is a tract of one
hundred and eight acres. largely covered with
pine timber. A swimming lake supplied by city
water has been constructed near a natural boat-
ing pond. Several shelters are already on the
land and an outdoor theatre is planned. In the

PLANNING FOR RECREATION IN NEW HAMPSHIRE 423

southern part of the park a football field, baseball
field and bleachers and bowling greens are nearly
completed. Adequate parking space has been laid
out and proper control buildings are planned. In
time it is hoped that horseback trails and ski
trails can be added.

At Sutton a gift of fifty acres of woodland
bordering on the shore of Kezar Lake has been
made to the state, and there we have swimming

facilities.

Meeting the Needs of Rural Districts

\Ve are trying to meet the recreation need in
our cities but equally important in a state like New
Hampshire is the need in our rual districts. Sut—
ton is a rural development. For advice and help
in this matter we again called on the National
Recreation Association and Mr. Wellington has
been most helpful. In conference with Professor
J. C. Kendall of the University of New Hamp-
shire Extension Service, a plan was formulated
for Miss Ethel Bowers, also of the Recreation
Association, to come to New Hampshire for three
months and working under the Extension Service
of the University, to organize a program for rural
recreation throughout the state. Miss Bowers
worked with speed and effectiveness and did a
line piece of work. A state director was engaged
as well as ten county leaders. An institute was
held to instruct these leaders and volunteers in
the program to be carried out. Thousands of in-
dividuals were contacted and much real com-
munity work was accomplished. In several places
May and apple blossom festivals were arranged
with success.

Trained Workers Essential

1 don't think one can overstress the need of
trained workers in managing these new facilities
which will be built up in New Hampshire as well
as in any other states. \Ve will find that when the
enthusiasm for this kind of thing wears down, we
can never make recreation facilities the character
building instrument that we mean them to be un-
less those who have charge of
them are equipped by training
and by character to properly
manage them. I know that
many of you already know
Miss Worth, our state director
who has carried out the pro-
gram that Miss Bowers started,

I don't think one can overstress the
need of trained workers. . . We can
never make recreation facilities the
character building instrument that we
mean them to be unless those who
have charge of them are equipped
by training and by character to pro-
perly manage them.

and are happy to know of our good fortune in
having her to direct our rural recreation program.

Another loan made to New Hampshire by the
National Recreation Association for but a brief
month was A. D. Zanzig, their music director.
Mr. Zanzig came merely as a consultant, so he
said, to meet with rural and city groups to dis-
cover what musical facilities and activities already
existed and to suggest new ways of bringing
greater opportunities to the people of New Hamp-
shire for participation in community singing and
playing. But even in that short time he had a
great many‘ of us dancing and singing and enjoy-
ing it immensely. Several community programs
have developed from his suggestions and promise
to be annual events.

Facilities for Winter Sports

As I have been telling you of New Hampshire
and its recreation, I feel quite sure you have been
thinking of the state merely as a summer play-
ground. W’e are learning—and we hope you will
——that it is becoming an equally popular winter
playground. The possibilities for winter sports
and recreation are constantly developing. In the
\Vhite Mountains of New Hampshire the federal
and state forest lands are snow covered for sev-'
eral months of the year—from the last of Novem-
ber until the middle of May—and we are taking
advantage of the opportunity to open up these
areas for our own citizens and for those who
come from other states.

Under the direction of ski trail engineers who
were employed by the state and with the expert
advice of authorities long experienced in the art
of skiing and ski trail building, the boys of the
CCC camps have helped lay out eighteen ski trails-
of over forty miles. These trails have been built
for the novice, the expert and the so—called inter-
mediate skier. In some places these three groups.
have been accommodated by varying the pitch
on a single trail and in other locations by building
three separate trails of different grades.

New Hampshire ski trails have been built for
safety. They have been laid
out with skill and care. The
labor of constructing ski trails
is infinitely greater than- is
necessary in building 0 th e r
trails. The mountains of New
Hampshire are heavily wooded

( Continued on page 453)

What We Mean By Recreation

By FREDERIC A. DELANO

URELY recreation means more than sports and
S playgrounds. It should mean rest for those
who are weary and heavy laden. It should
mean to many a chance to take a real breath of
fresh air and to drink deep of the fountain of
eternal life. Those who live and work in great
noisy cities have need to get away occasionally
from the nervous strain and noise. They have
need of a chance to cultivate a spiritual poise, in-
deed we all need it, the old fully as much as the
young; and yet we must never forget that differ-
ent people must necessarily get their enjoyment
and express their happiness in vastly different
ways.

I sometimes think we older ones will better ap-
preciate the full meaning of this word recreation
if we pronounce it re-crcafion. That carries the
thought of a more abundant life which comes to
those who yearn for rest and a change from the
drab side of life because they have learned how
to enjoy some of the many forms of nature, not
omitting let us hope what is to many the most
versatile and fascinating of all forms, human

nature.
When I listen to the babel of tongues it often
seems to me that few people realize the serious-
ness of the crisis we, as well as the rest of the
world, are passing through; more serious in many
of its implications than the \Vorld \Var. True, we
are not deliberately killing
men but we are involuntarily
crUshing out the life and
happiness of many. Enforced
leisure, as many know to their
sorrow, is not recreation; so
it becomes a major part of
our duty in respect to recre-
ation to win first the battle
against want and poverty—a
duty which we should face
with the same COUrage, hope-
fulness and enthusiasm that
we displayed in war time.
The philosopher H e n r y

424

For many years Mr. Delano has been a
leader in the movement for city plan-
ning and beautification. Among the posi-
tions of importance he has held or in
which he is now serving are: Chairman
of the Regional Plan of New York and
Environs, Chairman of the National Capi-
tal Parks and Planning Commission and
President of the American Civic Asso.
ciation. He has been appointed by
President Roosevelt as Chairman of the
Advisory Committee of the National
Resources Board under whose direction
there is being carried on a comprehen-

sive study of the recreational use of land
in the United States.

James said truly that war should never be abol-
ished until we discovered the moral equivalent of
war, and that seems fairly obvious. In war time
we saw the nation unified, inspired to meet a
common and definite objective. May we not ask
ourselves whether the peace time problem of the
re-creation of our civilization is not today fully
worthy of our unified support, and our hearty and
enthusiastic labor?

The development of the human race, we are
told, depends very largely on how we use our lei-
sure. Shorter hours, the great speed of communi-
cations, the annihilation of space, and all the other
developments of this machine age, tend alike to
greatly increase our powers of accomplishment;
but if the increased leisure which these modern
inventions give us means wasted opportunities,
the human race will have lost more than it has
gained.

Evidently education in the broadest sense must
keep pace with the advance of human knowledge.
In the same way we must plan for recreation: so
as to accomplish our purposes and secure a diver-
sity adequate to our multifarious needs. Inci-
dentally, we must train our hands as well as our
minds, so that our creative instincts will help us
intelligently to use our leisure to make Us useful
citizens, not drones, even after oar productive
capacity has ceased. Men and women who work
in factories must get the re-
lief which comes from doing
something useful or beauti-
ful; and another important
point is that this recreational
work must be different from
our regular work, and there-
fore restful.

These then are some of the
problems that are included in
the scope of intelligent plan-
ning. Up to the turn of the
twentieth century little
thought was given to the

(Continued on ram- 454)

. Planning Our Cities for Abundant Living

By JACOB L. CRANE, JR.

abundant life"—what beautiful and seduc~

tive and various images arise in our minds!

No two of us now alive would write precisely
the same specifications for good living.
Further, our ancestors had their own ideas;
some of them were engrossed in the pictures-
que notion that an abundant life here is entirely
incompatible with an abundant life hereafter.
And our descendants will likewise find the ac-
counts of the 1934 National Recreation
Congress quite. astonishing and even amusing.
So many factors influence the satisfaction to
be derived from living———-such various forces
and such a changing balance of circumstances.
And much of the pattern of impulses and
desires is only dimly discernable. \Ve may set
down some of the elements which most con-
cern us these days. \Ve all want a secure

uSATISFMTFORY LIVING)” “good living,” “the

livelihood with self-respect. \Ve all want op»'

portunity for advancement in one direction or
another and some freedom in choosing the
direction. \Ve crave peace of mind and affec-
tion. \Ve demand a wide range of interests,
however casual. We are obsessed with achiev-
ing the ultimate in mobility, rapid, almost
constant motion. \Ve are hungry for satisfying
leisure time pursuits. \Ve are in process always
of reshaping our environment, sometimes
nearer, sometimes farther from the thing we
desire.

City planning touches the environmental
elements directly, the others only indirectly. State
planning and national planning bear more and
more directly upon the entire
fabric. All our planning ef—
forts tend to influence the
facilities for and the use of
leisure, whether it be the
summer vacation or the half-
hour street car ride to and
from work.

The big city represents the

In this address before the National
Recreation Congress in Washing-
ton. D. C.. in October, Mr. Crane
points out some of the important
factors which should influence the
planning of cities for abundant liv-
ing. Mr. Crane. a noted city plan-
ner. is President of the American
City Planning Institute.

greatest opportunity for the abundant life, or
at any rate it represents our seeking and striv-
ing for richer living. Much the larger part of
our national surplus, the surplus beyond
“essentials,” goes into the city environment—~—
amusements, great public buildings, the elabor-
ation of all our urban facilities. In the great
city we manifest our pride in the civilization
we are building. For most Americans the big
city at its worst holds out the promise of most
abundant living, as witness the huge migra-
tions from country to city during the last
fifty years—the major social phenomenon of
our times.

However, what do we find these cities, the
records of our achievement, to be at this time?
Our great cities, with very few exceptions, are
still not much more than big, overgrown in-
dustrial and commercial camps. They are not
well organized, in some part ugly, grossly un-
economic, dirty and noisy, full of confusion
and strain. They display the power and wealth
of our period, but in a very unsatisfactory way,
so far as good living goes. They are “cities”
only by virtue of their immensity.

The reorganization and major rebuilding of
these cities offers the greatest single oppor-
tunity for the utilization of our natural re—
sources and of our natural resourcefulness.
just as the building of these metropolises has
furnished a most important outlet for industrial
and commercial enterprise, their reconstruction
constitutes the big opportunity for industry
and commerce. Billions of dollars worth of
materials and labor and tech-
nical skill will be purchased.
And likewise such rebuilding
is basic in effectuating the
economies we now demand
and in providing the setting
and the approach to living
circumstances in scale with
our desires and our wealth.

425

ll

l2! I

Conflicting Theories Presented

Here we are faced with several conflicting
theories of the best way to reorganize urban
life. These theories range all the way from the
re-ruralization theory, under which most in-
dustry and most city populations would be
drawn back to rural villages, to the "megalo-
polis” theory which proposes the city with all
buildings rising a thousand feet above ground
and the streets and transit arranged in three
or four lex els underground. The writer believes
that the intermediate “regional city” theory is
sountlest. The regional city is one in which the
thousands of square miles of land area lying
within each of the great metropolitan districts
is utilized for a cen-
tral n u c l e us and
many sub-nuclei of

A section of Jones Beach, a magnificent waterfront parl:
developed by the Long lsla nd State Park Commission. Such
areas are possible only near large centers ot population.

[-'1..l.\’.\'1.-\"b ()I'R (77715.5 FOR .le't\"D.-l.\"1‘ LII INC}

industry and residence, interspersed with great
rings and wedges of green open space. Such an
arrangement is free from the great costs involved
in either the re—ruralization scheme or in the
megalopolis scheme; it meets most directly the
known and “guessed” demands of commerce and
desires of people; and it seems to be in line with
":mtura!" trends. it meets the two most powerful
impulses now evidentr-the impulse to live and
work in Contact with and identified with a very
large agglomeration of all sorts of peOple, and the
impulse to retain contaCt with the open country.

Planners Must Recognize the Desires of People
Now, in planning any such regional city,
ranging from 100,000 to 10,000,000 in popula-
tion, we must not

fail to distinguish
between the things

r

1-
1r:*

A ,L

 

PLANNING OUR CITIES FOR ABUNDANT LIVING 427

which we as planners might conceive as desirable
for the people and the things which the people
themselves clearly want. This principle is as valid
in the field of recreation as in any other element
of city and regional planning. We must offer new
Opportunities for recreation, but our task is to pro-
vide as nearly as possible what the city dweller
needs to satisfy his own leisure time requirements.
Except as a matter of experiment in opening up
new possibilities, we should think not in terms
of teaching people what they ought to want
to do with their leisure time, but rather in
terms of providing facilities for them to do
what we know they want to do and of teaching
them how to do those things with the greatest
satisfaction. \Vith ready access to museums
and classes, an unknown number of people
would go in for art as a recreation. We should
try it out. But we should not assume that it is
socially essential, or even desirable, that any
great number do this instead of going fishing.
Conversely. we do know that a very large part
of all outdoor recreation time in this country
is devoted to pleasure driving. Parkways and
scenic highways constitute a major part of
any sound contemporary recreation plan.
\Vhatever is clearly undesirable in pleasure
driving may be largely remedied by offering
beautiful drives and interesting places to go.

Our recreation planning as a part of city
planning for the abundant life, therefore, in-
volves just the kind of thing the National
Recreation Association has been doing in its
surveys: An imaginative appraisal of what
people want to do, of the circumstances con-
ditioning their choice of leisure time activity,
and of the things they would gladly do if op-
portunity offered.

Objectives in Urban Planning

Of course, no person would quarrel with
certain general objectives. \Ve want our cities,
our regional cities, to be open to the sky, green
and pleasant, distinguished and satisfying in
their physical appearance, clean and quiet, rich
in parks and playgrounds and beautiful water-
fronts, in museums, concert halls, recreation
centers and public buildings, and accessibfe to
the open country to great country play
grounds. These items all fit neatly into any
well-conceived image of the rebuilt regional
city. They are elements of the structure. They

 

constitute the ultimate purpose of city plan—
ning.

The people of the United States seem to
have made up their minds to go after their
opportunities. Of no matter what faction, we
are all engaged now in providing a sounder
basis for economic security by one means or
another, for decent wages and decent working
hours, for a rational program of public works,
for proper housing, for a national recreation
program, ranging all the way from the little
playground or the little roadside park to the
immense natural recreation areas and recrea-
tion districts.

In this huge enterprise let us not forget that
the realest planning is that which derives out
of the local community or even the local neigh-
borhood, where the ambitions and desires of
the individual and the family can be reflected
in the plans. Our community planning must be
guided by national and state planning in the
larger problems, but all of the infinite adjust-
ment of detail and all of the detailed. fulfillment
of the program rests with the community. Our
national, state and city planning, and particul—
arly our recreation planning, are dependent
upon the willing support of the community; in
fact, they derive from the local community or
they are in large measure meaningless.

In some such framework of principles, we
proceed with the planning of our cities for
abundant living.

Melrose Creates a Park—A notable ERA
project is that being carried on by Melrose,
Massachusetts, which is converting 165 acres
of woods, swamp and ledge into a beautiful
golf course and public beauty spot. There are
nine natural ponds of great beauty scattered
among the hills, and in addition, two or three
natural lakes will be made. There is a nature
trail sponsored largely by the Melrose \Vo-
men’s Clubs, which when completed will be a
mile and a half long. The trail winds through
woods and valleys, spans brooks and rustic
bridges, and conducts the explorer to the
memorial tower at the top of Mount Hood, 285
feet above sea level. This square stone tower,
built of boulclers excavated from the golf
course construction, is 40 feet high and from
its summit a magnificent view is obtained.
Tennis courts are being laid out and there will
be bowling on the green and shullleboard.

Abundant Living for Small Towns
and Rural Districts

By DR. C. B. SMITH

smut. ma aunt to say little that is new on this
I occasion. The most blessed thing in the world

is useful work. Whatever else the future holds
for humankind, it must so order its life that all
men and women everywhere shall have some con»
structive work to do each day and be permitted to
do it. Some work, some income, some leisure in
each human life is the goal we are striving for in
almost every man’s philosophy. And herein are
rural people-“the men and women who live on
farms—blessed beyond most other groups. The
farmer. with his flocks and herds, his fields,
orchards and gardens, always has work to do and
work of a constructive, creative kind—a kind that
varies with the seasons, with the weather, and
with the different hours of the day. And the
farmer, within limits. sets his own tasks each day.
He plows or prunes, sows or cultivates, harvests
or markets, beautilies. constructs or lays waste.

The first point I want to leave with you, then.
is that the man on the land always has at hand one
of God's greatest gifts, constructive work to do.
Today, while 10,000,000 men sit or stand in idle-
ness because industry lags. 30,000,000 farm peo-
ple, engaged in agriculture, have something with
which to occupy their hands and minds and thus
keep themselves sane, nor-
mal, and abounding in

day in and day out, as an abundant table, daintily
spread and in ample variety. \Ve need to stress
in our teaching and in our preaching the virtues
of the abundant table in abundant living every-
where. \\’e know how to produce this abundance.
The whole nation in its future outlook should
plan for it. A square meal, not only on Sunday,
but every day in the week, should be the nation's
goal. Here again the farmer and the villager with
his garden spot are in a strategic position to pro-
vide the abundant table.

The field, the garden, the orchard, the dairy.
the poultry yard, the streams, the woodlot, the bee
yard, the vineyard—all help supply the abundant
table with bread, fruit, meat, milk, eggs, greens.
honey and wine. The good meal develops fellow-
ship and good cheer within the family. It assures
hospitality to the visiting neighbor or stranger. It
is around the table, where the family meets to-
gether three times a day, that integrity within the
family is inculcated, morals taught, ambition
stimulated and the good life pointed out. We
haven't given enough emphasis to the abundant
table in abundant living. It is possible and should
be a definite part of abundant living in the coun-
try and small towns.

'l'he third factor I would
mention in abundant liv-

hope. That is the first step
in abundant living in rural
areas.

The Abundant Table
and Family Life

The second step in
abundant living on the
farm and in the smaller
towns, as well as else-
where, is the abundant
table. Nothing so engen-
ders satisfaction in men,

423

In the preceding paper Mr. Crane expressed
the opinion that the big city represents the
greatest opportunity for the abundant life. In
the address which is published here and which
was given at the same symposium, Dr. Smith
claims that people in rural communities are
blest beyond most other groups. These di-
vergent views gave rise to a most interesting
discussion.

Dr. Smith has served for man ears as
Chief of the Extension Service aft 0 U. S.
Department of Agriculture. He was largely
responsible for making possible the rural rec-
reation institutes which have been carried on
for several years with the cooperation of the
National Recreation Association.

ing on the farm and in the
village, as well as else-
where, is the building of a
h om e w h e r e i n dwell
father, mother and chil-
dren in an atmosphere of
love, duty, understanding.
consideration, tolerance
and righteousness. T he
dwelling place of the abun-
dant life is in the home and
family life. where right
human relationships exist.

ABUNDANT LIVING FOR SMALL TOWNS AND RURAL DISTRICTS 429

As educators we may well devote a substantial
part of our instruction to building up a fine family
life, conversation in the family around the table
and fireside, family games, singing together, read-
ing aloud, going to church together, planning to—
gether. The family that has learned how to live
and work, sing, read, plan and pray together is
not far from the abundant life. The good family
builds the good community and the good com—
munity is the stepping stone to the good nation.

An Understanding of Nature Important

Again, the abundant life is promoted by an in-
timate knowledge of the things in which men and
women find themselves immersed or surrounded.
And so, if we want to add to the abundant living
of the farm, let us add in fullest measure to the
farmer's understanding—understanding of the
soil he turns with his plow, how it is made, how
it is classified, what are its elements; understand—
ing of the plants that grow in his fields and
marshes, the woods, and beside the streams, their
names, how they grow and propagate and their
multiple uses; understanding of insect and bird
life, their various ways and songs and habits and
names. Knowledge of these things, learned
through study and personal observation and nature
hikes with those who know, contributes to edu-
cation and learning and satisfaction and abundant
living.

To these ends, also, we have schools and classes
and agricultural colleges, but not all men can at-
tend them. we must multiply our agricultural
classes, science teaching and evening schools, our
Extension clubs and camps and nature trails, out
where the farmer is, so that every adult and youth
everywhere can walk through the fields and or-
chards and forests understandineg and having
eyes may see, may understand, and having imagi-
nation may grow.

Uncle Henry Wallace, grandfather of our
present Secretary of Agriculture and one of the
great souls of the earth, defined education as
follows:

“Education, after all, is simply the fitting of the eye
to see, of the hand to work, of the mind to perceive the
truth, of the tongue or pen to express it; and it is by the
practice of all these that we educate ourselves and be-
come strong, clear-headed men.”

And this education doesn’t lie so much in books
and schools as in our own observations and asso-
ciation with seeing men, and we all may well
absorb this idea and press it home in our teaching.

Again, work lightened with understanding and

imagination contributes to abundant living. Work
without understanding and imagination, the fol-
lowing of rote and custom, is drudgery and death.

What do we see as we till the soil,
Is it sweat and dirt and grime;

Or do we see there

A picture more fair—

A vision of bud and fruitage time?

Do we see there fields of ripening grain,
Catch the breath of the clover bloom;
Or is it just soil

And unending toil

As we follow the plow at noon?

Do we see there bread for a hundred homes
As we crumble the furrow’s sod,

See the teeming life
\Vith which earth is rife;
Or do we see there only a clod?

It’s what we see as we till the soil,
The thing beyond the clod,

That lightens our task

And leads us at last

Into closer communion with God.

Finally, men do not live by bread alone. It is
good to be alone at times in one’s own room or
study, alone in the fields, in the mountains or the
hills, in the great forests, or beside the seas. You
are close to the Creator there, close to your inner
self. But there are other moods when the soul
wants companionship of family and understand-
ing friends, times when you find joy in the multi-
tudes and social life, and thrill with the applause
and approbation of the crowd.

And so the farmer and the villager, like all
other men, must be encouraged and helped in
these fields. As teachers we must put forward the
farm man or woman to give the report, make the
speech, take the lead in the games, accept the of—
fice, and we must make the social occasion where—
in they may find opportunity thus to express
themselves and grow. That is all a part of abun-
dant living. To this end men and women should
be encouraged to belong and take part in Farm
Bureaus, the Grange, gardening societies, horti—
cultural associations, a political party, the church.

The essence of religion is service to man. No
man can live the abundant life without being in
substantial measure religious—giving wholeheart—
edly and joyously of himself and his goods in the
service and welfare of his fellow men.

There are not many large differences between
the abundant living in rural towns and districts
and abundant living for the urban man. The
farmer always has opportunity for varied and in-
teresting work. He is in touch with elemental
things—the soil, the rain, frost, sunshine and
wind.

430 ABUNDANT LIVING FOR SMALL TOWNS AND RURAL DISTRICTS

Away from the crowded city,

Alone with his fiocks and his herds,
Refreshed by the winds of heaven

And the music of singing birds,

He finds growth for the soul within him,
Sees life in the o'erlumed sod,

And while lilling the crops he has planted
He humbly walks with his God.

He may, likewise, provide himself, with greater
certainty, with an abundant table. Likewise he
has greater necessity for self-developed entertain-
ment and recreation. The urban man, on the other
hand, may more easily have the larger social life,
larger Opportunity to minister to his fellow men.
but is beset, probably, with more temptations to
riotous rather than abundant living and to con-
tent himself more largely with professional en-
tertainment.

If we would sum up this brief paper, we would
say:

The abundant living on the farm begins with
the Opportunity to work there in reasonable
amount and to educate one’s self by observation
and through understanding contact with books,
people, and things in one's leisure moments. The
underlying philosophy of the New Deal is to pro-
duce, not in superabundance that absorbs all our
time and makes for waste and dissatisfying re-
turns, but in abundance that meets our real needs,
increases our income, and leaves us some time for
the consideration of matters that interest the mind
and exalt the soul.

The Garden a Source of Satisfaction

\\'ltere men do not have farms upon which to
work, as in the villages, they need small pieces of
land whereon they may garden and grow fruits
and vegetables and lawns and slirubbery, both for
what these may furnish toward the family living
and for the satisfaction of the artistic and beauti-
ful that is within every man and woman. Few
human enjoyments are more satisfying than these
things. If constructive work with plants and the
soil does not fit the village's leisure needs, then
there are a thousand things men may do in the
way of art and handicraft. the working in wood
or metal or fabrics that may beguile them.

The abundant living on the farm and in village
home is promoted by the abundant table. Frank-
lin says: "It is hard for an empty sack to stand
upright." The abundant table promotes good
cheer and friendliness and is an oasis of peace in
each day. Further, the abundant life is promoted
by right fatnin relationships and living. A phi-
losophy of family relationships might well ac-

company our recreational teaching. The man with-
out a wife and family never can know the mean-
ing of abundant living.

The abundant life is promoted by knowledge—
knowledge of the things that surround us; knowl-
edge of science. philosophy, literature, music, his-
tory. It is promoted by the ability to express one’s
self in speech, writing. music, art, with the hands
in handicraft and otherwise, in song. in rhythm.
The abundant life is promoted by the opportunity.
at times, to be alone in the hills, in the storm, be-
side the sea; at other times to mix with the crowds
and be part of the social gathering, the conven-
tion, the organization, the camp, the recreational

games.
In this new era, we shall not be content until

all men shall have an opportunity to have some
work, some income, some leisure, in order that
they may have a part in the abundant life con-
templath for each man from the beginning.

we shall not be content in the country until we
have leaders in every rural community who may
teach us the ways of nature, lead us in our studies,
and bring us together in more abundant recrea-
tional life and social living. Education must be
brought to the door of every man who wants it
and can't bear the expense of attending institu-
tions outside his community to get it. That is
why we are training 350,000 volunteer Extension
leaders in agricultural home economics and recre-
ational projects in om Cooperative Extension
work and that is why there is needed the help of
vocational schools and universities in the further
expansion of that work.

The Women's Division, National Amateur Ath-
letic Federation will hold a Christmas Dinner
Party at The Town Hall Club, [23 \\'est 43rd
Street, New York City, on Thursday. December
27, 1934, at seven o'clock in the evening. There
will be a few short addresses by outstanding
speakers and reports of progress by the Federa-
tion. Tickets $1.50 (including tip). Make reser-
vation through the NAAF, 303 \\'est 42nd Street,
New York City.

Outdoor Indiana— Under this title the lndi-
ana Division of Agriculture, in cooperation
with the Department of Conservation, is pub-
lishing a monthly magazine designed to ac-
quaint the residents of the state with the
beauty of its outdoors and the facilities and
activities available.

Oakland's Christmas Pageant

“ EACE ON EARTH, Good \Vill
P to Men.” John Mullens
feels it long before he has entered the Mu—
nicipal Auditorium to witness the gorgeous festi-
val—Oakland’s Christmas Pageant. He pauses for
a moment in his walk about Lake Merritt. The
lake has been surrounded with a necklace of lights
in celebration of the holiday season. Ahead of him
he sees the seven huge fir trees, festooned with
myriads of lights and tinsel, set in the great
arches on the north side of the Auditorium. His
heart is filled with the warmth and joy of Christ-
mas. He loves the reflection of these glittering
trees in the placid waters. But he will come again
to enjoy this quiet scene for the decorations will
be there for another week.

He must rush along for he does not want to
miss one bit of the festival. Already the Audi-
torium is filled. There seems to be thousands
there. How different the great arena appears at
this time! All the people are seated in the balcony,
for the entire floor space has become a stage set
as a beautiful forest. Fairy magic has been at
work again! As the lights slowly come up he sees
gilded thrones. more tinseled and lighted trees
with glistening snow at their bases.

 

Courtesy Oakland Recreation Department

By HARRY E. TROXEL

A hush comes over the audi-
ence as the symphony orchestra,
screened from the stage with dozens of fir trees,
plays Rimsky—Korsakov’s “Christmas Eve Suite.”
The entire stage is bathed in steel blue light. A
fanfare of trumpets is heard in the distance. All
eyes turn toward the main entrance of the stage.
Twenty heralds, dressed in the traditional cos-
tume, have announced that the pageant has started.

John Mullens glances at his program again as
the orchestra plays the opening number of Oak-
land's nineteenth civic Christmas celebration.

LIGHT OF THE WORLD

Theme

“W'e keep today a very, very, old feast. Men have
called it by many names. One of the best is the Feast of
the Birthday of the Sun. The sun has a birthday like
the rest of us, and for primitive man his was the most
important. He began life all over again at this season of
the year. Long centuries back men grew apprehensive as
the sun continued to sink lower and the nights to grow
longer, colder and darker. Therefore, every year at this
time, when the sun 'burned low like a candle beginning to
flicker, man went forth at dawn, and rejoiced when he
saw the sun'rise and the darkness vanquished. To cele-
brate this he made a mighty feast. In the course of time,
however, this victory of light over darkness came to
have a deeper significance, and man began to think that
light should shine
within his own
heart, dispelling
the darkness of
hate and strife.
Then it was that
this season of cele-
bration was filled
with the new light
and w a rm t 11 of
kindness and good-
will. Man brought

Three Hundred
Fairies Add
Thrills to Oak-
land's Christ-

mas Pageant.

431

432 OAKLAND'S CHRISTMAS PAGE/INT

into his home that most beautiful of trees. our Christ-
mas tree. green and bright even in winter, and set lights
to shine on it like stars when the night is dark. It is a
beautiful festival celebrating the banishment of dark-
ness, ignorance, selfishness and ill-will by this new light
of hope. love and kindness. Today man observes at
Christmas time. not the birth of the sun in the sky, but
of the Son of Righteousness. the Light of the World."
Overture:

"Polonaise" from “Christmas Eve Suite" (Rimsky-
Korsakovl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Orchestra

PRELUDE
THE LIGHT OF THE SUN

Time. the Weaver, through countless hours reveals
to us the Christmas Spirit

The Heralds . . . . . . . . . . . ..Westlake Junior High School
Father Time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Mr. Harry M. Caldwell

Messengers and Hours
Bret Harte and Elmhurst Junior High Schools

The Birthday of the Sun is Celebrated:

Sun and His Rays . . . . . . . . . . ..Oakland High School.
Junior High Section

The Wind and the Rain Herald the Storm King:

Storm King and His Court

Lockwood Junior High School
Wind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Lockwood Junior High School
Rain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Rockridge School

Time Calls the Court of King Winter and the
Snow Queen:

The Snow Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .Y. W. C. A.

The Snow Flakes Cover the Earth \Vith a \Vhite
Blanket While Jack Frost and His Sprites Hang
Their Crystals on Every Tree and Bush:

Snow Flakes and Frost Sprites
Franklin and Bella Vista Schools

Frost Fairies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Lakeview School
King Winter and the Snow Queen Call
Forth Their Sports:

Snow Frolic . . . . . . . . ..\Voodrow Wilson Junior High
and Emerson Schools

Snow Men and Ladies . . . . .........Lafayette School

Skaters . . . . . . . . . . . ..Peralta and \Vashington Schools

Sleighs and Tob0ggans
Golden Gate Junior High School

Vanquishing the Darkness. The Sun Calls the Evergreens
\Vhich Still Carry His \Varmth and Light:

Poinsettias.......Herbcrt Hoover Junior High School
Holly and Mistletoe..Durant and Longfellow Schools

mar I
THE LIGHT OF PEACE, LOVE AND KINDNESS

There comes the Light of Peace, Love and Kindness
to gladden the .hearts of all men. banishing the darkness
of hate and strife, and causing men to feast together and
give.

The New Light Appears:

Hamilton Junior High and Jeh’erson Schools
The Christmas Bells Ring Out

Good Cheer:

Bells. Wreaths and Carols
Croeker Highlands School

The Christmas Elves Call The Rein-
deer to Bring Santa Claus:

Elves. . . . Clawson. Stonehurst and
Burckhalter Schools
Reindeer . . . . . . . . .Garfield Junior

High School
f)rivers.. . . Mosswood Playground

The Christmas pageant described
in this article was arranged. direct-
ed and managed by Mr. Trox-el.
Supervisor of Boys' Recreation and
Educational Dramatics with the
Oakland Recreation Department.
The pa eant is one of the high-
lights 0 the' festival season.

Santa Claus Opens His Wonderful Pack:

Santa Claus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Capt. William 1. Day

Doll Buggies and Scooters . . . . . . . . ..Glenview School

Balloons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..E. Morris Cox School

Hobby Horses and Balls . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Lazear School

Soldiers and Dolls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Parker School

Jacks-in-the-Box . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Lincoln School

Hoops and Teddy Bears . . . . . . ..Maxwell Park School

Clowns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Melrose School

Jump Ropes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .John Swett School

Santa's Helpers Draw in the Most Beautiful of Trees.
Our Christmas Tree, the Tree of Light:
Santa's Helpers . . . . . . ..Clarentont Junior High School

The Tree is Decorated With Popcorn. ,Tinsel,
Bonbons and Stars:

Bonbons. Popcorn, Tinsel and Stars
Allendale and Laurel Schools

Boys From Back of the North Wind..Sequoia School

Pierrots and Pierrettes Bring Merriment
Hawthorne School

The Candy Stick Parade: Whittier, Chabot, Cleveland.
Manzanita Schools

PART 11

THE LIGHT OF THE EAST

A great and beautiful light blazes in the EaStern sky.
and the Christmas Star brings lasting peace.

The Spirit of Christmas . . . . . . . . ..Miss Louise Jorgensen

The Christmas Fairies-—
Santa Fe. Markham. Piedmont Avenue. Frnitvale.
Dewey, Burbank. Grant, Horace Mann, Cole. and
MeChesney Schools

Tableau—The Son of Righteousness, The Light of the
the World Is Born in Judea:
Tompkins School and Alexander Community House

“Oh, Come, All Ye Faithful," Audience and Participants

Time, the Weaver, leaning on his scythe has
come to reveal the true Christmas Spirit, and is
seen calling forth the countless Hours. These
Hours are sixty girls dressed in graded tones of
yellows, blues, lavettders, and oranges and are
dancing to the lovely rhythm of the “Dance of
the Hours." Hardly have the Hours grouped
themselves about the throne of Father Time. when
a great processional starts. It is the Sun King and
his attendants, the Rays of Light. The colors of
their costumes radiate warmth in yellows, golds
and oranges. \Vith great ceremony the Sun King
steps from his chariot to take his place on a
jeweled throne.

Oh, look! Look what is comingl There is a
rttsh of W' ind and Rain, a great chariot thundch
itt. lightning flashes—the Storm King has brought
forth the white Christmas.
Snow is covering the trees and
ground. It is time for Jack
Frost with all his Sprites to pre-
pare for the Winter Sports.

John Mullens wonders at it
all. Only children have been
participants. There have been

OAKLAND'S CHRISTMAS PAGEANT 433

no pauses in the program and every little dancer
seems to know just what to do, and apparently is
enjoying it to the utmost. Not a word has been
spoken and yet the story unfolds so clearly. Music,
dancing, pantomime and costumery have done it.
As he looks down upon the stage the gr011ping
and dance figures have made beautiful pictures.

John Mullens had been a school principal. He
is now a Recreation Superintendent and has
come to Oakland, California, to see fifteen hun-
dred children participate in a great civic festival.
While he did so want to stay and see more of the
performance, he wished even more to go back
stage and witness organizing that kept so large
a pageant moving so swiftly—without confusion.
He soon found the pageant director who asked a
group leader to take him to the dressing rooms.
As he visited he saw the groups dressing in their
costumes and making ready for entrance calls.
The playground directors in charge were telling
stories, playing quiet games or instructing the par—
ticipants how to make simple paper toys. VVon-
derment was expressed at the smartness and
freshness of the costumes. It was explained that
these costumes were all made and cared for by
the Oakland Recreation Department Costume
Division.

A call boy entered the next dressing room and
quietly spoke to the playground director in charge.
It was time for this group of ninety junior high
school girls to take their places in the entrance
wings and await the music cue. Although a Rus-
sian Christmas Story was interrupted, the girls
enthusiastically started for their stage entrance.
It was the beginning of Part I and John Mullens
wanted to witness the direction of the groups
from back-stage, to see the five property men at
work, and to learn something of how the cues
were given to the orchestra leader.

Santa Claus is about to open his pack of Toys.
One hUndred and sixty~eight boys and girls, cos—
tumed to represent soldiers, dolls, balloons, hobby-
horses, bouncing balls, jacks-in-the-box, teddy-
bears and clowns are lining up in the wings. The
supervisor and his two assistants are directing
these tots—not one over ten years of age-—to their
places. Each one of the eight groups is under the
supervision of a playground director. But all
must be ready in four minutes. Five property
men are swiftly but quietly working to give out
eighty—seven properties. The signal flashes from
the pageant director to the orchestra that all is
ready. Three great doors Open and the music

starts. In six minutes the dance of the Christmas
Toys is over. Not a participant had lost a step
in this character dance. Unnoticed, properties are
gathered and stored in the props room.

Preparation for the Production

But how could fifteen hundred children be so
trained that a performance could be so spontan-
eous; that there was no trace of self-conscious-
ness; that there was not a moment’s hesitation
and that all was over in less than two hours? This
was new to John Mullens. He was told that care-
ful organization, educational methods, absence of
strain at all times and the keen interest of all
concerned were the keynotes. Preparation was
complete the day before the performance and
every one had sufficient time to relax and work
free from any stress.

The entire production was under one director
who worked with committees on organization.
prOperties, stage setting and lighting, costumes,
finances, dances, dressing rooms and publicity.
Through the close cooperation that exists between
the Recreation Department and the Oakland pub-
lic schools, all groups were rehearsed in the
schools during the physical education periods.
Each one of the fifty-six groups was rehearsed
but once on the festival stage. The first perform-
ance was the first mass and dress rehearsal of the
entire cast.

The lights are lowered for the closing number
of the lovely Christmas Pageant. John Mullens
has returned to his seat. Three hundred little
girls from five to seven years of age, dressed in
white fairy costumes, wearing silver crowns and
gauzy wings, and with trumpets lifted to the lips
are ready to enter. The Christmas Fairy is fin-
ishing her solo dance. The music swings into a
happy rhythm as she calls these tiny tots. Will
they never stop coming? The entire stage is filled
with these joyous Christmas Fairies. Brilliant
spot lights are centered on them as they finish
their dance and kneel. The Christmas chimes ring
out. Three hundred tiny voices sing “Silent
Night” as the curtains part on the tableau stage.
John Mullens does feel the true spirit of Christ-
1nas as he watches the beautiful living picture of
the Nativity. Thousands of others feel it, too, as
they sing “Oh, Come; All Ye Faithful.” The

Pageant is ended. “Peace on Earth, Good Will to
Men.” I

John Mullens hurries back-stage—--his eyes
(Continued on page 454)

Summaries ot

Discussion Group Meetings at the

Recreation Congress

Eight minute reports of the section meetings at the Recreation
Congress were presented to the entire group each day in order
that all the delegates might have the benefit of the information
presented at and the ideas developed in these discussion
meetings. As at previous Congresses, these summary reports
were greatly appreciated and proved a most valuable feature.
Reports of the other discussion meetings at the Congress in
Washington, D. C. appeared in the November issue.

Problems in Cooperation Arising in Community
Planning for Play and Recreation for Youth
and Other Age Groups

By Oscan A. Kraxuxm

Deputy Regional Scout Executive
Boy Scouts of America,

Salt Lake City, Utah

OOPERATon by many recreation groups in
many of our cities is going forward. \Vash-
ington, D. C. tells the story of its organiza-

tion of private and public agencies under a
city-wide organization, cooperating on play
days and other similar activities. In Boston,
through the activity of the recreation agencies,
the city planning board has made recreation
facilities one of its prime objectives.

Under the direction of the Institute for
Juvenile Research of Illinois and the Sociology
Department of the University of Chicago, an
extensive program of practical experimenta-
tion in the abatement of juvenile delinquency
was started in Chicago about two years ago.
It followed a study of a definite section of the
city, known as the bush, with a juvenile
population of close to a thousand boys and an
equal number of girls. It is known as the Area
Project. Churches, parks, playgrounds, schools,
graduate students of the university, local
private agencies including settlements, the Y.
M. C. A. and a number of community organiza-
tions were enlisted in the enterprise. Several
workers were employed under one of the

434

foundations which lent support to the under-
taking.

The known delinquents, it was found, were
unable to fit into the existing groups and acti-
vities of the neighborhood. This situation re-
quired special attention and churches, schools,
the Y. M. C. A. and the parks have made
special arrangements for new group under-
takings, in some cases even building new
rooms and providing new equipment to carry
on such a special program. It is too early to
announce the results of this five year experi-
ment but it is cited as an example of coopera-
tion in a special undertaking on the part of
public and private agencies and 'of community
forces and research workers.

In Kalamazoo, Michigan, recreational agen-
cies are cooperating on leadership training,
city-wide social dancing and a special study of
recreation in their community. A number of
cities have organized on sex and age group
lines. In the western cities cooperation has
been developed for leisure education, recrea-
tion and character building.

\Ve suggest that the magazine, “Recreation”
continue to carry stories of successful coopera-
tive projects. \Ve are all happy to learn of a
recent national cooperative effort of many national
agencies and we recommend the careful read-
ing of their bulletins, just issued. The titles
are, “How to Tell People About Character
Building,” “Leisure Time in Character,” and
"New Facts About Old Friends." These may
be had through the Association of Community

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 435

Chests and Councils, Inc.,
420 Lexington Avenue, New

York.
\Ve must work out a

good technique of worthy
cooperation in which many
types of machinery may be
used. The selection of lead-
ership will require great
care and real strategy. We
will get together best, per—
haps, and learn our lesson
early by undertaking some-
thing, but let it be of a
general nature and not too difficult. If it is done
well, it will stimulate our enthusiasm for big—
ger and more needful work.

It might be that with the many fine sugges-
tions before us of this National Congress, we
could go home and cooperate in “putting over”
a conference with local leaders for “Recreation
and the Abundant Life.”

If we keep our hearts set on high ideals, are
not seriously concerned with who will get the
credit, and conduct ourselves worthily, co—
operation will follow.

Widening Horizons Through Contact With Nature

By DR. BERTIIA CHAPMAN CADY
Naturalist, Girl Scouts, Inc, New York, N. Y.

AROLD BRYANT, chairman of the session,
opened the meeting with the request that

those present consider the significance of
the wording of the subject given us to con-
sider. At no time has it been of greater im-
portance to men and women who are faced
with innumerable problems of serious import,
that they have a wide view of the world of
reality. Their horizons should not be limited
by over-specialization or myopic vision. The
great contribution a group like this represents
can make is through enlarging opportunities
for direct contact with man’s environment and
illuminating that environment with fuller un—
derstanding and appreciation.

Defining the peculiar part we as leaders in
fields of volunteer activity should play, it was
held that our aim should be toward opening
greater opportunities for this first-hand contact
with nature to larger numbers of pe0ple; to
stress the appreciation of the beauty and the

The first session of the recreation execu-
tivesI meeting held prior to the opening
of the Congress was
cussion of questions relating to coopera-
tive thinkingI planning and action on the
part of local agencies in the recreation
and leisure time field. According to one
observer this meeting "gave testimony
to the general determination that out of
our bitter experience of material want
we shall move unitedly toward a com-
pensating spiritual betterment in our
social order." The report of this meeting
appeared in the November issue.

devoted to a dis-

wonder 'of the outdoor
world; to refrain from too
great emphasis on the plan—
ning of programs and acti—
vities so that Nature might
have more of the individ-
ual’s quiet leisure to make
her own appeal to that
inner yearning —- to the
spiritual hunger if you will
—that is in every human
being. We leave to the
school and the other edu-
cational systems the speci-
fic obligations involved in the study of nature.

Many valuable suggestions were made by
men and women attending the session. Garden-
ing offers a wide variety of direct nature
contacts. Experiences with individual gardens,
the utility and large community garden,
specialized gardens such as the Indian, herb,
geographic, zonal and botanical garden were
discussed. The beautification of roadsides and
vacant property and fence gardens frequently
extend into larger community concerns.

It was urged that the emphasis be placed
on the beauty, the educational and aesthetic
values of the garden, rather than the economic.
The wonder of the sprouting seed is of
primary importance rather than the fact that
a ten cent packet of seed may produce veget-
ables whic‘h can be sold back to mother for
two dollars and a half.

Generous contributions were brought to the
group in the form of interesting experiences
and observations in other parts of the world
where nature education has become a vital
part of the life of the people, old and young.
South America with its extensive c0mmunity
center in Buenos Aires, Japan with its annual
pilgrimages to Nature’s beauty spots and its
rich Nature symbolism, China the “Flowery
Kingdom” to which we are so deeply indebted
for many of our most beautiful garden plants,
and Germany with its little garden movement
and its children’s botanical and zoological
gardens where the close ,inter-relations of
plant and animal and human life are made
clear to even the youngest of the children in
the schools.

It was shown by isolated examples that here
and there in our own country similar activities
are being carried on. It was the general feeling

436 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

that every effort should be made to extend
these tried experiments and proven successes
to a far wider area and that this be done as
rapidly as leadership can be provided.

It was demonstrated repeatedly that this
larger opportunity for direct contact with the
out of doors can best be accomplished by fuller
cooperation with existing organizations. Many
communities are already making use of such
groups as the garden clubs, museums, zoos,
trail clubs, park boards, foresters, nature clubs,
aquaria, botanical gardens and astronomy
societies as well as the various organizations
of youth such as the Boy and Girl Scouts,
Campfire Girls, Pioneer Youth and others.
More and more it is being recognized that
these groups offer excellent sources from
which trained volunteer leadership may be
drawn.

It was unanimously agreed that the weakest
place in the recreation program is in the lack
of qualified nature leadership. \Vith this in
view it was recommended that immediate at-
tention be given to strengthening the leader
training courses both in knowledge of nature
material and in ways of presenting it to youth
and adult groups. Many more opportunities
for such training should be provided for pros-
pective leaders.

Nature activities may be carried on in con-
nection with the playground centers in practic-
ally every community. The equipment need
not be great. A plot of ground for gardens, a
few inexpensive tools, a children's zoo, an
aquarium or garden pool, leaders for nature
excursions and walks, a nature trail or a nature
treasure house are not impossible additions to
many playgrounds.

What Schools Are Doing to Prepare Children for
Abundant Living and Give Them
Abundant Life Now

By DR. \VHLIAM ll. HOLMES

Superintendent of School:
Mount Vernon, New York

xx 0? TIN-2 best things about the conference
0 was that we didn’t all agree. There was
considerable difference of opinion. There
were certain things, though, on which we did
agree. First I want to tell a story that will

show, perhaps better than a description, what
I mean.

Several years ago I was taking a hike one
Saturday afternoon with some adolescent boys
sixteen or seventeen years of age, out through
the woods near the town where I lived. As we
were going up over a hill we met a group of
what I knew to be first and second grade chil-
dren and they waved their hands to me and
said, “Hello.” i

I said, “Where are you going, boys and
girls?"

They said, “\\"e are going to school.”

Then those adolescent boys and girls gave
a merry Ha-ha, and said, “‘Well, going to
school on Saturday afternoon, going to school
on Saturday afternoon 1”

Yes, they were going to school on Saturday
afternoon because for them the public school
was a great adventure. Education, when it is
educating for the abundant life, is a great
adventure and I regard recreation as a part of
education for the abundant life.

Now what is the abundant life? \\'e have
education for life—we agreed on that—but
education is the whole of life, and education
may be very dreary and drab or it may be
really abundant. \\'e are concerned with educa-
tion for the abundant life.

Education for the abundant life means educa-
tion for health—bodily health, mental health,
and social health. So long as we send children
back into the slums to be infected with those
festering scres of ignorance, vice and crime,
they are not being educated for the abundant
life.

Then education for the abundant life is
education in the school subjects which used
to be considered nearly all of education. \Ve
have got to have right guidance along those
lines. Then it is education for social adjust-
ment, adjustment to the different groups, the
home group, the school group, the church
group, the community group and the com-
panionship group-—that is the most important
group of all. It is education for vocational ad-
justment, which is becoming more and more
important in these days when children and
youth don't know where they are going in
the end—don‘t know where vocation is going
to lead them.

It is education for leisure time, education for

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP JlIEETINGS 437

knowledge of the best books or a love of the
best books, the best moments of the great and
good men of the world. It is education in
music, the creation and appreciation of music,
the creative arts, handwork as a form of art—
all of those things.

And then perhaps the most important of all,
a spiritual education for spiritual and moral
adjustment, keeping in mind the big things
of life, knowing that there is a Creator, know-
ing that there is a stream of life ending in the
great ocean of opportunity and not in the
desert sands, knowing the way of life is~bui1t
by men of freedom and not by a pre-deter—
mined unit of humanity. Those things are
important; those things constitute education
for the abundant life.

Now, what are we going
to do? First, we have got
to have an intelligent com-
munity, intelligent men and
women — more especially,
intelligent parents — and
that is why the parent edu-
cation movement is so sig-
nificant. If you can get the
parents and the intelligent
citizens back of your school
program, you can have
education for the abundant

life.
And then you have got to choose as the

administrators, boards of education. If you
have the right type of parent—teacher educa—
tion, you can develop the right type of board
member who will serve on the board of educa—
tion and see that the children get their just
deserts.

Then come the decisions in regard to money.
You can’t have good schools unless you have
money. Here was the disagreement. I am sorry
in one way that James A. Garfield said that a
school was a log with a teacher on one end
and a student on the other end. We don’t
need that log any longer. We must have boards
of education that will ask, of course within
reason, for adequate school funds and we must
have people intelligent enough in the com—
munity and on the boards of education who
will know what the community can stand in
the way of school expenditures and not let the
politicians and the manufacturers tell them

Pennsylvania.

"We may expect that in the future the
public school system . . . will provide ex-
pert direction ot social, educational and
recreational activities for people of all
ages—tor children out of school hoursl
for youth awaiting employment, and for
adults who will have much leisure time
at their disposal. The education of par-
ents in the proper rearing ot children
and in methods of cooperation with the the
school will become a responsibility of
the school." — Edwin C. Broome,
Superintendent of Schoolsl Philadelphial

what can be spent for the right kind of educa—
tion.

And then, of course, they must be ready to
build, not logs for school houses, but beautiful
edifices—and every child in these United
States deserves a beautiful school building in
which to spend his school days, not luxurious
but beautiful.

‘Where there is one beautiful school house
there are ten thousand office buildings and a
thousand banks and a hundred or several
hundred warships. We can afford to have
beautiful buildings for our, children. In the end
we should go out from the school, back into
the homes, and eliminate the slums. So long
as there are slums and slum children no nation
has a right to hold up its head.

And then, and this is
where we sometimes dif—
fered a bit, we said that
boards of education in the
community should employ
the highest type of men
and women for teachers,
trained in the best of edu—
cational institutions, and
compensation should
be adequate, so adequate
that it will attract the right
type of men and women to
the educational profession,
rather than to banking, business and the many
other lines. And when I am talking about educa-
tion, I am talking about recreation. A man or
woman in education has a right to have enough
money to live comfortably and not be worried all
the time about his own existence and that of his
children.

There was one point that I thought was
particularly destructive. One of the members
of the conference said that he thought in his
city there was some disagreement brought
about by the unprogressiveness of certain
teachers and that unprogressiveness was due
to the fact that the older teachers who are
on tenure weren’t progressive enough—they
weren’t willing to change their ideas. I say
in general that is not so. It might be so in
many cities but I know that the teachers in
my state, and I know many of them, in general
are teachers who stand for the best things in
education.

438 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

I know that the security that tenure gives
them is one of the greatest safeguards that we
have for education. A teacher who is sure of
her position doesn’t have to worry lest some
little politician or sellishly interested person
say, “If you don’t do this, you have got to
worry about your job.” A teacher who is sub-
ject to that sort of domination is no kind of a
teacher to have near my child.

Yes, my friends, education for the abundant
life is here in some places, but only in a few
places. \Ve have got to understand this: That
education which gives a child a chance to really
express himself, to grow into life, has only
just begun. \Ve are only in the morning of
life and the vast day stretches out before. \Ve
must concern ourselves for the education of
our children if we want to have education for
the abundant life.

Problems of Board Members Responsible for
Recreation and Park Services

By MRS. PAUL Ravens Revs-01.05

lVestehester County Recreation Commission
White Plains, New York

HERE SEEMS to be a universal agreement that

somehow there must be better coordination of

all educational, recreational and cultural ser-
vices. This must come about in order that the
equipment of public schools, community cen-
ters, playgrounds, churches and park facilities
may be fully and wisely used.

The point was made that the public pays
fOr public buildings and that it has a right to
demand full use of these buildings; that a
school building does not belong to the school
board, the church parlors to the minister or a
community center to the manager. Insofar as
public or private funds have been given for the
erection of a plant, that plant belongs to the
people of the community. The money invested
by the community in its erection is wasted
when it is idle.

The necessity of educating the tax payers
who demand service of the public schools not
covered by their budgets must progress to the
point where we will “tell the world" not only
what we want but that we are willing to pay
for what we want through our taxes.

Several persons suggested the value of rota-
tion of officers of commissions. The question

of what standards board members might be
expected to have in carrying out the recrea-
tional projects presented a difficult problem.
But executives and board members present
seemed to feel that between the background
of local experience of the board members and

the training and experience of the executives,
standards weie developing and crystalizing.

The need for community understanding, not '

only in order to secure funds either public or
private, but for getting as many people as
possible to use the resources offered, can best
be secured by a recreation board or commis-
sion which works actively and which is not
simply a group to approve work planned and

carried out by the superintendent. The view 1

was expressed that a superintendent, if he is
competent, has technical knowledge which the
ordinary board member does not possess. In
securing public support, however, and in help-
ing to interpret local recreation service, active
boards are indispensible.

The debt which local park and recreation
boards owe to the National Recreation Asso-
ciation for its leadership in many sections of
the country was repeatedly expressed.

The group also seemed to agree that the
word recreation was not the final term for the
work which we are doing. It seems too trivial
a word to cover the needs of people who want
to read difticult chamber music in a congenial
group; who like making a local survey; enjoy
studying the mechanics of writing; get fun
out of iearning to build an engine or develop
a photograph. we need to find some word all-
inclusive for all the joys which we know, in
what are theoretically our hours off.

Comradeship Through Social Recreation
By E. O. HARBIN

General Board of Christian Education
Methodist Episcopal Church, South
Nashville, Tennessee

ms GROL'P concerned itself chiefly with social
T recreation for the two sexes together. Such

questions as the following emerged in the dis-
cussion: How do you get men to attend these
social affairs? \Vhat are the activities in which
men are most interested? \Vhat are types of
activities in which women are most interested?
Is social dancing social recreation? Can such

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 439

activities as sketching,
apple paring, and the like
provide social recreation
for large groups? To what
extent should we use or—
ganizatons already func-
tioning? To what extent
shall the group itself par-
ticipate in the planning?
\Vhat should a program
of social recreation do for
the individual?

Several things were
evident as a result of the
discussion:

First, that even professional recreation lead-
ers are in danger of regimenting people into
stereotyped forms of recreation because it is
the simpler and more obvious thing to do.

Second, that there is great need for broaden—
ing the average leader’s conception of the pos-
sibilities in social recreation for helping people
to find abundant life. Stuart Chase, in a recent
magazine article, said, “The battle is on be--
tween those people who know the values of
life and the high-pressure fraternity that would
fill life full of jumping jacks.”

Third, that if we would help people find the
greatest satisfactions and benefits from social
recreation we must help them broaden, deepen
and enrich life by helping them find a great
variety of worth while interests. High-level
fellowship can only be had where the members
of the group have mutual high—level interests.

Fourth, that there is great necessity for a
well—planned program of continuing activities
in any situation where the leaders desire to
build the spirit of friendliness. Sporadic efforts
will not suffice. Fellowship is a matter of time
—tin1e spent in happy activities together.

Fifth, that in order to interest people in a
well-rounded program of social recreation it is
necessary to take evident and potential inter—
.ests into account.

Sixth, that it is necessary to have whatever
groups you want to reach represented in the
planning of the particular activity.

Practical suggestions were made about find-
ing fellowship through such activities as
sketching, handcrafts, reading, discussions,
folk-dancing, apple parings, dramatics, table
,games, parties, banquets, bonfire rallies, hikes,

the Association.

There were many occasions at the Con-
gress when the delegates gave a demon—
stration of comradeship through social rec-
reation. A play hour was conducted by
Robert Murray of the Association's staff
on the opening evening and a period of
social dancing was arranged for Wednes-
day evening. Following other evening ses-
sions' however, groups of delegates as-
sembled for informal periods of social rec-
reation at which there were a free exchange
and demonstration of new games. dance
figures and other social activities.

A bulletin describing the games used at
the play hour is available on request from

community sings, stunt
nights, roller skating, re—
creation institutes, hobby
c 1 u b s and rural-urban
choruses.

In conclusion let it be
said that social recreation
must be social. That isn’t
as simple as it sounds.
Check up on your activi—
ties to see whether or not
they have achieved a high
degree of sociable spirit.
Social recreation should
build a happy spirit of
friendliness in the group so that each member
spontaneously shares his joy with all the
others.

The spirit desired is the spirit expressed in

Scout Jack Crawford’s poem:

“If a 'bit 0’ sunshine hits you

After passin’ of a cloud—-

If a lit 0’ laughter gits you
And your spine is feelin’ proud.

\Vhy up agin’ and fling it
At a soul that’s feelin’ blue,

For the minute that you sling it
It’s a Iboomerang to you.”

How to Provide Recreation More Adequately
For Women and Girls

By Floyd Rowe

Director, Bureau of Physical Welfare,
Board of Education, CIeoeIond, Ohio

HE MEETING was presided over by Mrs. Ellen
S. \Voodward, Director of \Vomen’s Work,

Federal Emergency Relief Administration.
So much interest was shown in this meeting
that an overflow crowd necessitated moving
to a larger room. The program was divided
into six sections, each with a discussion leader.

Miss Dora Dodge, Director of the VVor—
cester (Massachusetts) Girls’ Club, pointed
out some of the problems in working with
underprivileged girls. In her opinion the pro—
vision made for girls up to 15 years is the
weakest spot in the program. Little girls are
less spectacular than boys, don’t “gang up”
or get into trouble; therefore they are not
provided with an adequate program of skills
instruction during their earliest years. In deal-
ing with girls 15 years and over, leaders often
fail to provide the right program, forgetting
that the girls want activities With boys.

440 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

Miss Ruth Swezey, Director of Recreation
in \\’ilkes-Barre (Pennsylvania), discussed the
selection and training of women workers,
especially those provided through the F.E.R.A.
Directors must first find leaders—then build
programs around them. Through F. E. R. A.
leaders we can demonstrate the needs and
values of a wider recreation program for girls
and women. \Ve must “sell” recreation for
girls to our community now, looking toward
the day when we will need local funds to sup-
plement money from federal sources. Lead-
ers must provide activities for girls and boys,
men and women together. F.  R. A. leaders
show a real professional spirit and response

to training.

Mrs. H. R. Harvey, Director of Recreation
in Lansing (Michigan), opened the discussion
on activities for industrial girls and older
women. The prOgram for girls in industry
must be an evening program, preferably out of
doors and as active as possible. Reference was
made to the phenomenal growth of softball,
with highly competitive teams playing under
flood lights before thousands of spectators.
This interest is a challenge to all women lead-
ers to provide adequate direction to girls’
athletics. Lack of such trained leaders presents
a serious problem. Although most industrial
girls prefer active games and sports, older
women want varied activities, gymnastics,
music, dramatics, handcraft and social activi-
ties.

Miss Edith Gates, Director of Health Educa-
tion, National Board of the Y. \\'. C. A..
presented the results of a two year study of
interests and participation of young employed
girls in physical activities. It was found that
girls are interested in many physical activities
but that lack of facilities and the high cost
keep them from participating. Older girls
hesitate to attempt learning new skills. there-
fore little girls should he taught skills in pre-
paration for their later play hours. Girls should
learn games where two or three may partici-
pate, such as golf and tennis, rather than place
too much emphasis on team games of high
organization.

Miss Ethel \Vorth, State Director of Recrea-
tion with the Extension Service in New Hamp-
shire, discussed recreation for rural women
from eight to eighty years of age. Activities

range from folk dancing to simple equipment
games and from motion songs to coordination
stunts. Camps from three to six days in length
give the women freedom from household cares
and provide Opportunities in nature study,
games, singing, dramatics, swimming and
boating. Youth conferences for girls and boys
between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five
years train young people in recreation insti-
tutes. Requests, chiefly from women, are being
received for singing schools, play festivals and
grange programs.

Miss Ethel Perrin of the American Child
Health Association and the \Vomen’s Division,
National Amateur Athletic Federation, em-
phasized the importance of standards for girls’
athletics. There is a need for wider under-
standing of these standards on the part of
enthusiastic but untrained leaders on F.E.R.A.
projects.

In summarizing the discussions. Mrs. \\'ood-
ward called attention to the following points
which need attention:

I. More recreation for girls and women of
all ages and fuller use of all available facilities.

2. Absolute necessity for recreation leaders
to “sell” the program for women and girls to
the various communities.

3. More projects for the employment of
women under F. E. R. A. “Remember the For-
gotten \Voman.”

4. More imagination in the planning of pro-
grams for girls and women. “They all want
romance.”

5. Most important of all—with the probable
decrease in federal funds we must see that
local communities help in providing funds to
match federal allotments.

Highlights of the Meeting

1. Teach skills to little girls.

2. Provide boy and girl programs for girls
over fifteen years of age.

3. Pick your leaders—then build your programs.

.4. Provide more facilities at less cost.

5. “Sell” the girls' and women's program to
your community.

6. Get older women into the program.
7. Look out for dangers in girls’ athletics.
8. Emphasize the high standards of the N. A.

A. F. in athletic competition.
9. Find ways of securing local funds to sup-
plement federal funds.

SUMMARIES 0F DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 4-41

Wha'l' Services On Hobbies Should Local Recreation
Departments Be Prepared to Give?

BY E. DANA CAULKINS

Superintendent

lf'estchastar County Recreation Commission
l’Vhite Plains, N. Y.

S wE faced this subject, we were conscious
A of the fact that recreation leaders are some-

what in the position of having to set their
sails to catch the breeze from a wild wind which is
starting but with the starting of which they had
perhaps very little to do. \Ve went further than
that and considered that in addition to catching
the breeze—if a wild wind can be gotten hold of
-—we should try to influence that wild wind and
give it some direction so that for the masses of
our people this hobby of wild wind may result in
not simply upsetting people but in making for
progress.

\Ve didn’t attempt a final definition of the word
hobby. However, we did recognize the fact that if
that word is going to mean something, it must be
used with more definiteness and there must be

some limitations put upon the field which it covers.
Then we had two or three suggestions to offer.

A hobby is an absorbing interest, something
which can be carried on alone, which doesn’t re-
quire group organization. Most of the discussions
of hobbies have inferred that they include pri-
marily things and the collecting of things, but we
don’t think that the ultimate definition of hobbies
will be limited to those fields.

A warning flag was run up that hobbies may be
vicious. We didn’t decide that golf was a hobby
but at the same time we do know that there have
been many instances where interest in the game
of golf has become so absorbing that we have had
our golf widows and our golf orphans. In some
instances—in many instances, perhaps—such a
selfish absorption in one activity has been harmful
to the balanced development and enjoyment of the
life of the individual and has caused annoyance
to his friends and relatives.

I am reminded of a little story of the Chamber
of Commerce secretary who was “batting” for the
agricultural eXpert at a meeting of farmers. He
knew about business but he didn’t know much

In such classes adults are being trained
in skills which may later become hobbies.

Courtesy New York State Board of Education

 

 

442 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

about farming. The subject to be discussed was,
“The Culture of the Velvet Bean.” He was able
to read the paper that the agricultural expert had
sent for him to deliver in his absence but after
he had finished. one of the farmers raised the
question, “\V hen do you plant the velvet bean ?"

He had no idea in the world as to what he
should say but he had to give some kind of an
answer so he said. “\Vell, you plant it early.”
Then observing that that didn't seem quite to
satisfy his audience. to be definite he said, “But
brother, not too early.”

So hobbies should be absorbing, but not too
absorbing.

we decided that it is not a matter for a public
recreation department to promote or stir up inter-
est in the expensive hobbies such as yachting,
collection of antique furniture and so on.

The point was made that in this swing toward
hobbies we are really following a tendency which
is general in our movement, and that is of swing-
ing away from went: toward services. The topic
is, “What services on hobbies should local depart-
ments be prepared to give?” I will go over
briefly some of the services that are being ren-
dered and which we felt should be rendered by
public departments of recreation.

In the first place. it should provide places and
spaces where hobbies may be cultivated, to be
continued elsewhere in the home, the backyard,
the cellar and so on. and also equipment and
materials for the joint use of. many. This service
may be either free, if provided from tax funds,
or the individual Using the equipment may be
expected to pay a share of the cost.

A second service is that of publicity, publishing
by press, radio, special printed leaflets and so on
information concerning the wide range of hobbies
and examples of great hobbies, local and world
wide.

It may also serve in the establishment of such
activities as hobby fairs. An interesting report
was given on a girls' hobby fair in Cincinnati with
an attendance of seventeen thousand. As many
of you know, the Chicago Recreation Department
has conducted a rather elaborate
demonstration of the actual making
of things at the Chicago Fair.

Another type of service which
has been rendered and which we
felt should be rendered. is training
children as well as adults in classes

or by other informal methods, in those skills
which may not immediately result in hobbies but
which may later become hobbies.

Of course there is no such thing as a new
hobby for an individual. Nothing becomes a hobby
with an individual unless it is old with him and
most hobbies involve some considerable degree
of skill which has to be cultivated over a con-
siderable period.

The matter of club organization for coopera-
tion and exchange between individuals having the
same hobby was referred to yesterday in an
interesting report of a survey of the hobby
services provided by sixty-eight recreation depart-
ments in cities and communities. The outstanding
services—the services most commonly rendered——
were: First, the promotion and guidance of hobby
interests; second, the provision of shops and other
places for hobby activities; third. the provision
of materials, either free or at cost, affecting a
saving to the individual through wholesale buying.

I think that I had better just give you a final
suggestion as to sources for further information
on this subject. Mention was made of the National
Recreation Association's bulletin Number 3010;
of the very interesting and detailed diagrams and
descriptions of methods of making things which
have been prepared by the Chicago Park Depart-
ment: and of the publications distributed at a
low price by the Leisure League of America with
headquarters in Rockefeller Center, New York.

Recreation That Builds Home and Family Life

Itv 1le. JAMES HUMPIIRIES, JR.

State Recreation C hair-man, N. J. Congress of Parent:
and Teachers, .iIontz-afe, N. J.

RS. t\'.\tt ntitaatxc expressed the need of
M defining the term home in terms of present
day experience. She said: "The home today

is not a solidified section of community life. but
a highly energized atom capable of an infinite
amount of power for growth or deterioration of
its individual members. It can be effective only
as a foundation upon which to build enrichments
of life for its members. together

with that strength which will enable

several 0f “‘9 Public” its individuals to face life and
tions on hobbies referred

to by Mr. Ceullrins in his
report of the section
meeting on this subject
are reviewed in this issue.

themselves clearly and courage-
ously." She stated that parent lead-
ership in home recreation should
take only the following forms:

SUMMARIES 0F DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 443

a. Setting the stage for play.

b. Exposure to opportunity for individual play
development.

c. Suggestion, without parental domination.

Mr. \V. C. Batchelor suggested that a depart-
ment of recreation may assist in home play
through the development of:

a. Home play campaigns.

b. Demonstration of home play activities.

c. Stimulation of interest through publicity and
personal contact.

d. Discussion groups.

e. Leaders’ training institutes.

f. Give the parent successful experience in
leadership.

Clayton Jones stated: “In congested districts 3
community center is neccessary to supplement
family recreation within the house itself. A com-
munity center can furnish lubrication of family
tensions through family play nights and festivals.
The community center definitely aids in the edu-
cation and Americanization of the foreign born
parent so that a more sympathetic understanding
of the home play need is developed.

“The segregation of the sexes in play activities
during adolescence results in a lack of mutual
interest and is a definite barrier to marital ad-
justment and happiness.”

Frank P. Beal pointed out that any successful
family recreation must contain the element of
humor.

From the discussion was developed the opinion
that recreation for the home must enlarge the
vision, strengthen the body, counteract the over-
stimulation of the present day, normalize the
emotions, draw out individual interests, bring
happiness, create a spirit
of unity of purpose
and have a sense of
humor.

Concrete suggestions
for home play activities
included puppet making,
sketching, dramatics,
ping pong, music, check—
ers, chess. card games
that are alive, work
shops. laboratories, gar-
dens, nature study in
own garden, camp fires
in rear yard, crafts, read—
ing, conversations and

children. long remembered.

The general singing at the Congress was the
best ever as well as the most ever. By eight
o'clock each eveningI and sometimes even before
then. a large group of people were gathered for
singing though the scheduled time for this to
begin was 8:l5, and on a number of evenings
people gathered around the piano after the meet-
ing and sang and danced until past midnight.

The song leaflet issued especially for the Con-
gressI with its Generous Fiddler. the Galway
Piper and about thirty other songs, was evidently
the most attractive collection that we have yet
used. It was entitled Songs Easily Learned and
Long Remembered. Any one who was at the

Congress must have been amazed at how easily
learned the songs were. Another Congress will

be needed to show whether they have also been their taSte-‘3 extending

Zestful Living Through Music
BY A. D. ZANZIG

Dircctor of .u‘lIusic Service
National Recreation School
New York, N. Y.

THINK THAT a report on music can be rather

I a burden, rather a vexation, because it is so

easy to make music that to talk about it is

sometimes rather tantalizing, especially among
these people here who make it so easily.

Our meeting to discuss the problems with rela-

tion to music was especially widely representative.

The public schools were represented, though not
officially, the National Federation of Settlements,
also the Young \Vomen’s Christian Association,
the churches, the Boy Scouts of America and the
Russell Sage Foundation. In addition, we had the
Director of the Professional Division lof the
Federal Emergency Relief Administration, direc-
tors of some of the largest and most important
F. E. R.A. music projects in the country, and a
good many of our own municipal recreation work-
ers. I think it especially interesting that so many
interests were represented at our meeting.

The Chairman, Henry S. Drinker, Jr., was and
is an ideal amateur. He is a prominent lawyer of
Philadelphia and I can speak of him because I
think that what I say of him presents in part
what the meeting accomplished. His acquaintance
with and love for the best music is greater even
than I have found among most professional
musicians. He sings and plays himself. He has a
family of four children. The parents and children
play and sing together just for the love of music.
Friends and neighbors gather often at his home to
sing together some of
the best music. He is a
very happy man.

Onc of the first points
that was brought out was
the scope of music in
recreation and this is best
exemplified by the
musical activities of the
chairman in his own
home—though he didn’t
speak of it. someone else
did—where they sing

simple folk music and
the Bach B Minor Mass,

from the very simplest

4-H SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

music to the most profound and advanced—all
done for the sheer joy of it—and from the most
modest skill to the most advanced skill (on the
part of a few people). Despite these differences
in skill, all can sing happily together.

And another important point was the age range
in Mr. Drinker's own group-—his own children
and also elderly people— childhood to old age.
Unlike the pleasures of some other recreational
activities, the pleasure of music grows deeper and
more radiant as we grow older.

The chairman opened the meeting with a de-
claration of pleasure that it was sponsored by the
National Recreation Association and not by the
National Amusement Association. He presented
at once the question as to how the most can be
made of the relief funds that are now available
for the engagement of unemployed musicians.
That is a provision which can be very fortunate,
as you know. How can these funds be made to
have the most constructive and lasting infiuence?

He suggested that we take a long-range view,
that there was coming a bigger field than ever for
intelligent teaching and leadership of amateurs,
or would-be amateurs. and that there was an in-
creasing desire for music as a way of life and not
as a means of display and of concerts.

The first point brought out in the discussion
of the question as to how the most could be made
of this emergency aid that we are to have was that
just as our aim in charity has changed from that
of merely giving to the needy to helping to make
them self-supporting, so our aim in recreational
music should be not merely to give music to people
through concerts, but to help them make them-
selves musically self-supporting.

This has nothing to do with money. In other
words, the power of unemployed musicians
should to the utmost possible be directed towards
leading and teaching people to make and enjoy
music themselves, rather than toward merely
giving them more concerts, though the latter, if
good, can be valuable also if good opportunities
for growth in understanding and appreciation of
music are being offered at the same time.

The first difficulty to be overcome in carry-
ing out this idea has been due to the attitude—I
suppose in many cases, perhaps in all cases, a
necessary attitude—on the part of the general
relief administration and in some cases due to
pressure from the niusicians' unions. That is, the

relief administrators want to employ as many
people as possible and as promptly and easily as
possible and so have the idea of giving all of the
money to forming and maintaining orchestras
and bands. The unions like this idea also.

Two years ago in New York City, of $500,000
made available for relief through education and
other general cultural enterprises, $250,000 was
set aside for New York City and fifty per cent
of that amount was designated for music. Three
hundred and seventy-live performers were en-
gaged at once at fifteen dollars a week to play in
orchestras and bands. Fortunately, a little later,
Mrs. McFarland was put in charge and she man-
aged to get authority to employ fifty teachers.
There are now about a thousand musicians em-
ployed through the New York City project, and
496 are performers, and 496—-—the same number
by a coincidence—are teachers and leaders.

The next question at our meeting was “How
to choose leaders and teachers and to train them?"
And such qualities as taste, knowledge, imagina-
tion, initiative and love of the job and of the
people, were brOUght out. An obstacle to such
choice of leaders is the kind of peOple who are
on unemployment relief.

One person brought out the difhculties of get-
ting jobs for ten drummers and five pianists.
Three of them couldn’t read music; they just
“faked” it and that isn’t a bad term in this case.
He was also given a trombone player who had a
persecution complex. and he broUght out the fact
that this was easily understandable after you

heard him play.

There is a good deal of training needed for
these unemployed musicians. Among them are
unemployed school music teachers, people who
have been trained to teach music in schools. They
are the most likely pe0ple but even they need
training in the approach to adults and in the re-
creational attitude.

Leaders and teachers should operate through
existing organizations as far as possible, rather
than merely start new ones.

W'e discussed not only the E.R.A., and the
leadership through the E. R. A., but also volunteer
leaders. A number of interesting points came up,
but since we are to have a continuation of these
in the meeting this afternoon, we invite you all
to come to hear the rest of this report.

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 445

Is It Desirable for the Recreation Movement in the
United States to Further Special Types of Rec-

reation Which Require Less of Leadership and
Organization? How Can This Be Done?

What Are the Activities for Adults Which
Practically Run Themselves?

BY FRANK S. LLOYD

Associate Professor of Education
New York University, New York, N. Y.

NUMBER OF major issues were brought to
A the attention of the conference. A brief
summary of these follow:

I. It is necessary that there be created a changed
concept concerning recreation. The panel and the
door indicated that perhaps the most important
problem confronting the recreational movement
at this time is the creation in the minds of the
people of a felt need for recreational programs.

2. The question of organization for the future
was raised. The consensus of opinion was that it
was not a question of over-organization, but how
we might organize so that we will move into new
areas and give an indirect supervision for post—
adolescence and a direct supervision for pre-
adolescence. It is important that the organization
to be set up shall work from below upwards
rather than from above downward.

3. It was indicated that the outcomes must be
greater than the activities themselves. That the
outcomes of the promotion and programs must be
the development of a more'abundant life, and that
the mere provision of facilities and activities
would not necessarily insure this. While it would
be desirable to take a leaf out of the European
book of recreation in the promotion of an attitude
and desire for recreation, we must avoid very
definitely a laissea~faire attitude and must utilize
the opportunities presented for the promotion of
desirable citizenship.

4. The question was raised
as to what should be the
function of the professional
leadership in the newer de-
velopments of recreation.
The discussion from the floor
definitely indicated that this
leadership certainly involves
utilization more definitely of
lay leadership and an increas-
ing democratization in plans
of organization.

The widespread popularity of softball is
indicated by the Recreation Year Book
for the year |933 when 663 cities re-
ported this activity. Two hundred and
seventy-six of these cities indicated the
number of different individuals partici-
pating in the game which was 352.352.

This number exceeded that reported for
any other team game including baseball

in which 279.654 individuals were re-
ported as participating in 279 cities.

Softball Problems—Hearings on Present Situation

Bv DR. JOHN BROWN, JR.

Secretary, Department of Physirai Education
The National Council of the KIN. C. A.
Note York, N. Y.

HE EIGIITY DELEGATES who attended this ses—
Tsion reported an amazing increase in the game

of softball during the past year. There were
more participants and more teams. Formal and
informal leagues and tournaments were organized
in all parts of the country. This increase was
beyond the fondest dreams of any advocate of
this particular game a few years ago. It was
present in all sorts of institutions, affecting all
ages and both sexes. Inter—city, district, state and
national tournaments were held.

In the national tournament held in Chicago,
promoted under the auspices of the Amateur Soft—
ball Association of America, forty-six qualifying
teams participated, representing over thirty dif-
ferent states and Canada. You can get some idea
of the local interest in that game when I tell you
that one hundred and twenty-one policemen were
assigned to handle the crowd attending it.

It may be a little beside the point, but at least
it indicates the interest from a certain point of
view that one individual donated a trophy costing
eleven hundred and twenty-three dollars to be
given to the winner after a series of competitions.
The national association which promoted this
particular tournament was the outgrowth of a
meeting held in Chicago two years ago, convened
by the National Softball Association. At this
meeting thirty-six different states and Canada
were represented and a committee was organized
which attempted to codify the existing rules.

I have referred to two different national bodies
——the National Softball Association and the
Amateur Softball Association of America. The
former is sponsored primarily
by manufacturers interested
in promoting the game be-
cause of their desire to sell
equipment. It is interested in
promoting inter—city games
between professional teams
with one team in each city.
The Amateur Softball Asso—
ciation of America, on the
other hand, is a different or-
ganization with a different

440 SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

set of ofiicers. It is interested in all-star amateur
sports in cities on the part of all sorts of teams
representing local communities.

The Playground Baseball Committee of the
National Recreation Association has functioned
since 1923 in the promotion of the game, partic-
ularly along the lines of rules standardization. It
was recently enlarged to include representatives
of other national agencies interested in this sport
and is now known as the Joint Rules Committee
on Softball. It is continuing its efforts towards
acceptance of one standardized set of rules. This
committee is primarily interested in stimulating
interest in keeping the game recreational, amateur,
as a neighborhood event, contributing to whole-
some community play for all. It is representative
of the national organizations interested in this
sport and has formulated the rules from this point
of view.

Now, attempting to summarize some of the
things that developed in our conference, I would
say that softball is not now for softies. It has
shifted from being a game of many names, some
of which were bad natnes, like “kitten” ball,
implying that it had nine deaths. In passing, you
may be interested in knowing that the official rules
now call for seven rather than nine innings. It
is no longer going to be known as indoor baseball
or diamond ball or night ball, but softball. \Ve
hOpe instead of many there will he but one set
of rules. which, of course, may be adapted to suit
local equipment conditions.

This game has not had any parent. It has been
on the doorstep of many organizations, clamoring
for admittance but no one has taken it in. It is
now being taken in and it is going to be fostered
and we hOpe that it will grow up as a member of
the family of real play and recreative aCtivities
in all communities.

lleretofore, this game has been going nowhere.
\\'e believe now that it is really starting to go
places, with one name, one game, one set of rules,
Sponsored by one joint committee representing
all of the national organizations interested in this
sport, with one guide which will be the official
handbook.

lirom this I think that we as recreational \vOrk-
ers can get the following suggestive points of
view. The game will no longer be classified as a
minor game: from our standpoint, it will he a
major game. It will not be confined to the play-
grotmd bttt have its place really in the neighbor-

hood. \Ve will not think of it as a kid's game but
for all age ranges. not only for boys but also
for men and for girls and women. Not only will
it he a daytime and twilight game, but also a night
game. It is coming from obscurity into prom-
inence, from being unorganized to being organized
-—-not for the few but for the many. Continuing
to be informal it will also be formal.

The Joint Committee will be enlarged to rep—
resent more of the organizations, all of which
will be united in the revision of the rules which
is now in process. It is hoped the rules will be
universally accepted with a view to keeping soft-
ball a community game of the people, for the
people, by the people, as a means of adding to
their more abundant living.

Public Camping—National, State. Municipal
Bv CHARLES LAMB

Secretary, Department of Playgrounds and Recreation
[.05 Angela. California

sand piles in a Boston yard in order to entice

the small children off the streets and so pro-
tect them and also save the nerves of the drivers
of vehicles. It is now extended to the camp idea
the purpose of which is to entice persons to the
mountains or valleys far removed from the traffic
of the city and town and to save their nerves as
well as those of the automobile drivers.

Los Angeles was the first municipality to estab-
lish camps in the mountains on government pr0p-
erty which was turned over to the city for public
use as long as it was desired. Public camping is
now encouraged by national. state, county and
municipal authorities who realize the great bene-
fits enjoyed by our people. Our government offi-
cials are setting aside millions of acres for parks
and forest lands.

The chairman of our grottp, Miss Ruby 3‘.
jollif'fe, Superintendn’nt. Camping Department,
Palisades Interstate Park, New York. pointed
out that there are various kinds of camps. First
there is the camp selected by the individual cam-
per who follows a trail to a spot where he can he
alone and enjoy the solitude of the valley or
mountains. among the trees or by a lake or stream.
Sometimes the individual camper sets up a tent,
clears a spot for a camp fire and remains for a
certain span of time. Another type is the camp
where the automobile camper stOps for a week—
end, on a vacation trip or for a sojourn with his

THE PLAYGROUND idea was started with the

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS 447

family. Still another is the camp serving groups
of congenial persons, families or organizations
from the city environment, eager for the big out-
of—doors.

Children accustomed to play on the city streets
and older people whose recreational life has been
limited to a narrow range of indoor activities often
ask, “‘What shall we do in the mountains?” Public
camps are filling a very great need for those who
live in congested city areas. Public camping rep-
resents a desire to go back to the land, whether
11: be a home or a ranch in the country. It is a

going back to the Indian life from which this
country has developed.

The Appalachian trail from Maine to Georgia
is an outstanding achievement towards the open

life and the enjoyment of nature, affording as it

does the Opportunity to stop over night at con-
venient lodges or cabins along the trail.

Now how far can we
depart, in public camp-
ing, from normal forms,

The Watchung Reservation with its facilities for
locatingI fishing. picnicking and camping at-

of living? Equipment is necessary—the camp
must be clean and wholesome and afford proper
comfort facilities. The camp must have pure
water and tempting food. In deciding whether or
not we should keep it primitive, it is important to
remember that it is the change of environment
that best mends the tired nerves and rebuilds or
re-creates our being.

The leadership of the camp needs to be different
in each case. Plans are formed to flt the group
and to avoid interference with the leisure of the
camp life,

The question arises. “\\"hy should we run a
camp? Is the motive health or manners ?” One
may see the health value but not the manners.
Among the reasons advanced for public camping
are that it is educational, recreational, and makes
for health and happiness. It may be heaven or
hell according to the plan.

Mr. Caulkins of VVest-
chester County, New
York pointed out that

tracts thousands of people from the nearby cities.

 

Courtesy L’mon County, New Jersey, Park Commissir‘u

448

they have a camp capable of taking care of 250
boys or girls. He believes the essentials to a camp
arc the food, the water. the beds and hot showers.
In the group present were seven at whose camps
hot showers have been installed. At some camps
the lakes or rivers are used for swimming but in
California this is not allowed because for the most
part they are used for domestic and drinking

purposes.

The government through its transient camps
for boys and men has this year cared for more
than 240,000 persons in 201 camps in the moun-
tains. The groups range in size from 50 to 5,000.
The older men are cared for in areas apart from
those occupied by the younger groups.

Persons may stay in camp as long as they de-
sire. Those who are citizens of the state in which
the camp is located receive eight cents per day
from the state relief funds but the campers who
are from out of the state are sapported from the
government allotment. The government provides
funds for the capital outlay and administration
costs. The sanitation of the transient camps and
the foods are checked by the State Health De-
partment to insure a safe condition. The general
Opinion of the group was that the transient camps
should provide a place for building up the morale
of the men who are out of work and who are
away from home.

Out of the 240,000 campers, 40.000 were
transient girls or lone women. The women are
cared for through contract by appropriate agen-
cies operated for women’s care.

To meet the growing need and call for camp
life, the National Recreation Association is train-
ing leaders and Fitting these persons to carry out
plans to make a successful camp life.

Some municipalities are conducting two forms
of camps, one for the whole family and the other
for boys or girls. These are all under competent
leadership and are conducted at a nominal cost
per day or week. Los Angelcs has conducted its
camps successfully for twenty years, largely on
a self-stipporting basis. The mountain camps are
valuable parts of the California recreation pro-
gram. Mr. Robertson of Oakland pointed out that
unfortunately the citizens often do not know
about the camp facilities that are available and it
was suggested that there be more newspaper
publicity.

.S‘UJIJIAR'ES 0F DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

Changes Thai Need To Be Made in Recroaiiali

During ihe Present Emergency Period ——
Changes in Program. Method and Conien’r

Bv Rov SMITH WALLACE

National Recreation Association
Nate l'ork, .\'. l'.

HERE was coarrasarrvrnx little discussion of
Trecreation programs specifically for those who

are unemployed and dependent. One or two
suggestions were specifically addressed. however,
to that particular need and the suggestions were
about as follows:

That the unemployed need especially oppor-
tunity to feel that they belong and that their
personality counts. It was suggested that there
were in recreation activities opportunities for
them to exercise skills and leadership and to be-
long in ways that would give them that sense
of emotional status which is so essential. It was
further suggested that many men, dependent and
unemployed, need opportunities to get away from
home, a place where constantly they are reminded
of their inability to be economically successful. lt
was suggested that many kinds of clubs with many
kinds of activities helped for both of these speci-
tic suggestions.

The problem was considered on a more general
basis in the thought that the word “emergency”
might perhaps be cast into the discard and that we
might recognize the fact that we are living and
will continue to live in a changed social order in
which the fundamental needs of the people are
about the same now as they always will be. or
have been; that with greater leisure there will be
more Opportunity. more zest. more energy, and
we believe more desire for that which we recrea-
tion folks and we educational folks have been
talking about all of these ycars---opp0rtunities
for creative expression in all of the rich phases
of human nature.

These things have always constituted the real
interests of men and women: Games and sports,
music. drama. conversation. literature. curiosity.
service. All of these things have been the life of
people. Our task is not to do something based
upon a different kind of human being but to ad-
just our procedures because of the new opportuni-
ties which we arc now having.

(Continued on for}: 454)

Preparing
for
Christmas

By V. K. BROWN

which the newly consolidated

Chicago Park District field-
houses have been divided, one of the larger build-
ings has been chosen for a new sort of community
enterprise—a community shop in which citizens
are invited in family groups to join clubs for
making handwrought Christmas gifts. Skilled
leaders are assigned under a work relief educa-
tional service grant to assist club members in mas-
tering the technical processes. Competent educa-
tional leaders are delegated to Operate play groups
for the younger children of parents who attend
the working club sessions, so mothers, fathers and
older children may devote their time to making
whatever gifts they choose to work on; and game
rooms and gymnasiums are open under supervi-
sion to the intermediate aged children.

IN EACH of the six districts into

The Entire Family Cared For

Relieved by these services of immediate atten-
tion to the younger members of the family, father
may make a whole Noah’s Ark of articulated toy
animals, while mother is busy making dolls,
tooled leather handbags, silk scarves or any of the
other numerous objects which appeal to her as
desirable gifts. Daughter may prepare the family
holiday greeting cards and
the elder son may either
'work with Dad on the me-
nagerie or undertake on his
own initiative a sailboat or
scooter for his younger
brother or a set of papier—
mache decorations for the

V. K. Brown' for many years Superintendent
of Playgrounds and Sports with the South
Parlt Commissioners of Chicago. has been
appointed Chief of the Recreation Division
of the newly consolidated Chicago Parlc
District. Mr. Brown has long been a leader
in the development of interesting, novel
and artistic handcraft projects.

 

Courtesy The Architectural Record

family Christmas tree. Following the example of
the \Vestchester County shops, the Whole series
of club groups will work in the large assembly
halls rather than in isolatied units each in a separ-
ate room. This affords an opportunity to stroll
about the hall during any lull in the worker’s
program. to observe what others are doing in the
other crafts, to pick up hints as to patterns or
designs which might help solve an undecided selec-
tion and also to develop more of neighborly ac—
quaintance than would be possible if each craft
were separately housed. Under such a sociable
arrangement, if Johnny is tooling a monogrammed
brief case for father, he may find it necessary to
tell Dad to keep away from the southwest corner
of the room in any of his rambles, but this is a
purely private adjustment within the family circle
and the general neighborliness of the venture need
not suffer because of such occasional and personal
necessities of secrecy. To promote the acquain-
tance feature of the plan, name cards are being
prepared for club workers to wear during their
hours in the halls.

Handbooks Provided for the Craftsmen
The actual teaching of
the processes to workers re-
quiring instruction is fur-
ther facilitated by the hand—
books on Various crafts
which have recently been

worked out as the Leisure
Hobby Series. These book-

449

450 PREPARING FOR CHRISTMAS

lets on arts, crafts and me-
chanical subjects were made
possible through last winter’s
C.\\’.A. project. In this pro-
ject the literature of each
subject was scrutinized and
indexed, experimental shops
were set up for making tools
and accessories, and for pur-
suing the several processes
of each separate craft. As fast as engineers.
workers and volunteer consulting devotees of each
hobby agreed Upon the practicability of each in-
dividual step in the process, artiSts and drafts-
men put that step into picture rather than descrip-
tive textI photo-engravers made plates of these
pictures and printers ran the plates on the print-
ing press to be combined into the booklet series.

This series of illustrative texts now includes six
completed booklets on quilting. kite making, mak-
ing of bird houses, fashioning of cardboard lan-
terns of a decorative nature and of larger units
to be mounted on boats and illuminated as Vene-
tian Night floats, making’ of model airplanes, de-
signing and making of masks and carnival cos-
tumes. The booklets on doll making, making of
games boards, on leather craft, silk painting using
the Kraftrite colors in the Picareffprocess, various
metal crafts. weaving, building home made aqua-
riums and various other undertakings, including
the making of the articulated toys mentioned
below and totalling some seventy subjects, have
not yet been finished and assembled. But the pre-
paration of pages of instructive drawings for all
of these subjects has been going forward and
there are enough now printed to afford an illus-

trated text on at least the fundamental processes.

During the exhibit of the Park District at the
Century of Progress, these hobbies were also
demonstrated by volunteer enthusiasts and per-
sons interested in any one of them were invited to
register either their desire to join groups to pur-
sue these crafts as a club program, or their will-

ingnessI already knowing something about the
crafts. to serve as volunteer leaders. Letters have

been mailed to all who registered their interest and
it is felt that volunteer workers will be assured in
sufficient numbers to guarantee the success of the
undertaking even though the 'relief staff is not ade-
quate for personal instruction of the large numbers
who are expected to enroll in the six centers. The
employed relief workers and volunteers. togetherI
will have the booklet series and printed pages of

Copies of five of the booldets referred
to by Mr. Brown are now available at 35
cents each from the Chicago Park Dis-
trictI 57th Street and Cottage Grove
Avenue. Chicago. or from the National
Recreation Association. The titles of
these five booklets are: "Bird Houses of

Today." "Kites," "Quilting." "Lanterns

and Floats" and "Model Airplanes."
Other booklets are now in preparation.

instructions from booklets as
yet unassembled and uncom-
pleted. Since drawings made
after the C.\\'.A. booklet pro—
ject ended have been made
on tracing cloth. copies of
these later drawings and of
others which may still be
prepared can be blueprinth
and used as lesson sheets.

New Craft Activities Being Developed

Among the teaching or leadership 'group as-
signed to the project there are several who have
already developed novel plans for new activities.
Some of them are artists who worked last win—
ter on the original booklets and who meantime
have thought of additional ways to use the pro-
cesses they worked on at that time. To illustrate:
One or two artists who were assigned to work on
the booklet on making costumes and masks for
carnival "dressing—up" devised an interesting
method of making them. The process involved
modelling a base in clayI applying hard oil to the
dried clay, putting on a layer of wet newspaper
over the greased clay surface and subsequently
ap'plying four or five thicknesses of alternately
colored. and ordinary, newsprint paper pasted
down firmly to fit tightly over the clay mould.
Ordinary wallpaper or flour paste was used for
this purpose. The artists conceived the notion
that by the same process a set of distinctive
Christmas tree decorations might be made up,
sandpapered smooth after drying, and painted with
either gloss lacquer or enamel, or even painted with
eh tap oil or water color paint and then varnished.
They believed such tree decorations would be
highly original in shape, light in weight and at the
same time tough enough in construction to be
almost indestructible. They think these tree decor-
ations are especially adapted to outdoor tree decor-
ating, and have been designing novel and appro-
priate shapes from which to east moulds so the
workers may themselves make sets of the chosen
patterns. They have made up patterns of modern-
istic decorative shapes and are planning figures.
angel forms, Chris Kringles, Santas, cherubs.
stars, aml similar patterns quite differing from
the standard tree ornaments on the market.

Another idea is to use this paper and mould
process to form frames or encasing patterns to

surround Christmas tree lightsI perforating these
framing patterns with cut-out openings across
which translucent oiled paper or vellum may be

PREPARING FOR CHRISTMAS 451

gummed to make small lanterns like stained glass
windows in miniature. Such lanterns would vary
the tree lighting, reduce glare and dress up the
tree with multi-colored light patterns instead of
the traditional electric lamps dipped in dyes. Out-
door trees in particular, usually rendered almost
invisible by brilliant lights which obscure the
darker foliage, can be visualized as glowing with
subdued lamps of stained glass window effects,
the white lamps inside giving sufficient illumina-
tion to intensify the patterns, but the color en-
semble not limited to the few hues which have
heretofore served as lamp stains. The light units
themselves, being patterned lanterns, are not all
of a single color as a dipped globe must be, but
are rather a whole color composition. '

Making Dolls and Toys

The same paper building-up process has been
extensively used by our girls’ groups in making
doll heads and even articulated doll bodies. One
half of the head or body unit is made in its hol—
low mould and when dried the two halves are
trimmed, fitted and pasted together to form the
completed head. body, arm, or leg. To make these
moulds, the girls have scoured the stores for doll
heads or shapes which they liked and from which
they have made ordinary plaster of paris half—
moulds. They are then able to produce as many
replicas of the original head or body as they de-
sire. We have an extensive set of such moulds as
well as ntimerous patterns for cloth dolls. Some
of the artists have been working out original pat—
terns for these stuffed dolls, human figures. ani—
mal figures, cute cock-eared puppies, kittens, rab-
bits, elephants, etc., likely to prove dear to the
juvenile heart.

In the articulated cut-out toy field, workers
have also been doing some original patterning and
we have engaged the services of an expert me—
chanic to carry the movement idea into new de-
velopments. Roadside stands have familiarized all
motorists with the walking figurine; the mechanic
is working out simple connecting parts whereby
the legs will animate upper body movements, as
one example. Then there is the whole field of in—
terlocking wheel and belt mechanisms for wind—
mill, small motor, clock mechanism, shade roller
or other spring power animation, with which to
tinker. Ingenious older brothers, fathers and
friends of the small boy may experiment in mak-
ing such a gift. Carts and scooters, sleds and sail-
boats, model iceboats, skiis, snowshoes, building

blocks, doll houses, doll house furnishings. tin can
toys, bath-tub motorboats, tea party tables, chairs,
dishes of hand modeled potteries—the list is end-
less, in which the mechanically minded or artisan
inclined adult may make things suitable for gifts
and himself revel in the making of them in his
leisure time between now and Christmas.

we have several new types of weaving. A
young marine on Fair duty near our booth at the
Century of Progress during the summer taught
our workers some new tricks in woven cord belts
and other novelties. we have picked up a num-
ber of suggestions from visitors to our Fair booths.
Honeycomb weaves, lampshades, metal craft and
leather work, batik, gesso picture frames, deco-
rated boxes, book ends, candlesticks, trays, desk
sets and the like are only a few of the things sug-
gested. Pewter hammering, jewelry making, pot—
tery, wood inlay—the list stretches on.

Last summer a European visitor gave Us a
booklet on the subject of batik processed Easter
eggs. a peasant art in middle Europe. The book-
let was printed in Czechoslovakia. I sent it out to
be translated and the mother of the translator
went back to an old country trunk in her basement
where she had kept some of the treasures of her
girlhood, and brought forth several egg shells
with the delicate traceries as fresh as when the
patterns were laboriously dyed into them in the
channels scraped in the wax coating years ago.
Getting numbers of people into a common room
doing all of the things we expect to see done in
these shops will bring forth many an additional
suggestion to further enrich the program.

Tools and Materials Made Available

The plan contemplates provision of some
machine tools such as saws, drill presses, jig—saws
and lathes for the wood working activities. We
expect that one activity which calls for coopera-
tion between a woodworking member of the
family and the family artist will prove very popu-
lar. The project is making out of hardwood, sets
consisting of bracelets, belt buckle and coat or
dress buttons to be carved with a uniform design,
stained, colored, finished and mounted on an ap—
propriate card for gift purposes. The lathes will
also be busy on making tops, parts of articulated
toys, bases for lamps, potteries and the like. The
call has gone out for gifts of unused tools or
mechanisms to supplement what equipment we
already have. We may even find socially minded

(Continued on page 455)

452 A CONTEST FOR CHILDREN'S PLAYS

exit/d to Your Christmas .0th

PHYSICAL EDUCATION
HEALTH AND RECREATION

DIGEST

0 THIS MAGAZINE offers you twenty-
odd articles a month, condensed from fifty
leading publications in the fields of physi-
cal education. health and recreation. Here
is an economical means of obtaining the

best thought and latest information in an
easy convenient. readable form.

0 EVERY RECREATION WORKER should

be a subscriber in order to keep up in rec-
reation literature and the related subjects.

health and physical education.

0 AN ADVISORY BOARD of prominent
educators guides the policy of the magazine.

Editor. Cmauzs D. GIAUQUE

 

Date

The DIGEST

29 EXBTER STREET
BOSTON. Massacnusens

Gentlemen

Kindly enter my subscription to the DIGEST at
the introductory subscription rate of one dollar

(5 l .00) a year.

D Enclosed 6nd one dollar.
D Please send me a bill.

Name .  ..
(Mr.. Miss. ere.)

Address .. .

A Contest For Children’s Plays

HE PALO ALTO, California, Community Chil-
dren's Theatre, a division of the municipal
recreation department, has been actively engaged
in the production of children's plays for the past
two years. Because of the difiiculty which has
been experienced in finding suitable material for
production, the advisory board is sp0nsoring a
contest to stimulate the writing of plays for chil-
dren. A first prize of $2", a second prize of $10
and a third prize of $5 have been offered for the
three best full-length plays for children.
Following are the conditions governing the
contest':

I. Plays must be' original, not adaptations, not
hitherto produced, and must have a playing
time not to exceed one and one-half hours.

Although operettas are not desired. inciden-
tal music for dances or songs will be acceptable.

2. All plays must be neatly typewritten on one
side of the paper and bonnd with a folder.
Plays must be submitted without the author’s
name. The author's name and address are to
be enclosed in an envelope bearing only the
title of the play. Stamps sufiicient for the
purchase of an envelope and the return of the
manuscript must be enclosed if a return is de-
sired. \Vhile every care is taken in the han—
dling of all scripts, no responsibility is as-
sumed for loss.

3. An entrance fee of $1.00 must accompany each
and every manuscript.

4. The Palo Alto Community Children's Theatre

reserves the right to produce, royalty free, any
of the plays submitted, the title to all plays
remaining with the author.

5. This contest is Open to all, excepting only mem-
bers of the Palo Alto Community Children's
Theatre staff and Advisory Board. There is no
limit to the number Of entries each author may
submit.

6. In making the awards the judges will take into
account the literary excellence of the play; its
dramatic quality; its suitability and pliability
as a production for children.

7. In addition to the prize awards, each play-
wright will receive criticisms from three com-
petent judges for each play submitted.

8. This contest is open from January I, 1935 to
March I, 1935. All entries to be considered

must be received before the closing date by
Mrs. James A. Quinby. 640 Middlefield Road,
’alo Alto. California.

PROGRESS IN THE ART OF LIVING 453

Progress in the Art: of Living
( C ontinncd from page 419)

that is at least equal, I think, to a large degree of
recreation. That is, we will have a considerable
number of people who will have joy in their work.

\Ve are feeling our way to a program of de-
centralized industries. \Ve are in a region that is
very much broken in topography, where there are
little valleys among the mountains, little communi-
ties of fifty, one hundred, one thousand people,
where communities seldom can grow much larger
because of the isolation in the mountains, physical
isolation, although there are roads.

If wc can stimulate industrics in that region so
that instead of pulling people out of that beautiful
environment, its hills, and its autumn colors and
spring colors and beautiful climate, if instead of
pulling them out into another Pittsburgh or an-
other Detroit or Birmingham we can help to de-
ve10p units of industry that are natural to in-
dustry and yet can sit in those hills, we can, I
hope, save the setting of a normal life which is
very hard to replace in the environment of our
large cities.

In these various ways, wc are working in the
Tennessee Valley Authority with the economic
life, I should say primarily, but we are hoping and
believing that not as a by-product but as a neces-
sary corollary to that, we are working toward a
type of .living, conditions of living, a training
in living, and an inspiration in living, which is, I
think, in harmony with the aims of the National
Recreation Association.

Planning Recreation in New Hampshire
(Continued from page 423)
and it is not possible to use for skiing the exist-

ing summer trails, for the ski trails must be wider
and must be cleared of all stumps and stubble.
These trails open a new beauty for all outdoor
enthusiasts because they afford an opportunity to
go to the summits or to the tree line of several of
our mountains, which has never before been pos-
sible in the snowy days of winter. Shelters have
been built along the trails and more will be added.

“Snow trains.” as we call them, take thousands
of visitors each week-end during the skiing season
from Massachusetts and other states to the ski
trails of New Hampshire. Each week a survey is
made of the best skiing conditions and an an-
nomrcement is given on Friday of the destination
of these trains. Equipment and instructors go

along with the trains.

This is the story in brief of New Hampshire’s
plan for the use of the leisure time of her citizens

and her visitors.

One thing I have not mentioned, and that is the
engineering planning. The hope is that some day
we will be able to rid our lakes and streams of
pollution. It is our great hope that the adjoining
states and the federal government may cooperate
with us in clearing up inter-state rivers. This
work should be carefully planned and approached
conservatively but its accomplishment would
mean a great deal to our generation and to those
who are to come after us. The more I study into
these problems, the more I am convinced that
planning is an essential part of the problem and
that planning in this field comes within the scope
of man's experience and knowledge.

Our objective is conservation—conservation of
our natural resources for the benefit of mankind
in order that we may be better able to conserve all
that is best in ourselves and develop all that is

finest in our children. A happy and wholesome
leisure is essential to the well-being of the human

race.

 

GIVE PlTCI—IING
HORSESHOESIN THE

Ollrriatmaa landmine

A gift all sport lovers will appreciate the

year round. Packed in brightly colored boxes.
—either in pairs as illustrated or in sets of

four with staltes in sturdy wooden boxes.
However packed—Diamond Official Pitching
Horeshoes are winners in the preference of
both amateur and professional players.

DIAMOND

CALK HORSESHOE CO.

46I0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH, MINN.

434 WHAT ll’E MEAN BY RECREATION

What We Mean By Recreation

(Continued from page 24)

need of planning re-creational facilities. Until
that time there were vacant lots and unfenced
domain almost anywhere, and it was assumed that
that would be enough for all time. Now, how-
ever. we begin to appreciate that with the rapid
growth of our cities we shall have no adequate
play spaces within walking distance, no forest in
which to commune with nature, no beach or rocks
where we may see the breakers come in from the
ocean; and that will continue to be the case unless
we deliberately make reservations for future
needs, so it is these stern facts which compel us
to display ordinary foresight in planning for our
future needs.

In the foregoing, l have tried to summarize the
facts which emphasize, first, how many-sided and
complicated the problem is; and second, how im-
portant it is in this time of crisis and economic
reconstruction that we should plan intelligenth
to meet these needs. Without doubt it is one of
the great problems of National Planning, and yet
for reasons I have intimated, it is just as bad to
overdo our planning as not to do enough.

To many people the recreation problem seems
simple. To them, certain phases of the subject
loom most important. For example, the major
sports such as football, baseball. tennis or golf
appeal to a large majority; hunting and fishing to
many more; but even after these are mentioned
the needs of many are ignored.

Those who see the subtler sides of the ques-
tion beg and implore that the beauties of nature
be conserved and even let alone; and it is easy to
see how, in our eagerness to make everything ac-
cessible to all the people from the crowded cities
even to the wilderness, we may be destroying
umch that is beautiful, because our most treasured
things are frequently appreciated only by few and
may be easily destroyed by the mob.

So I will close my paper by urging thorough
and intelligent planning—hut planning in which
the most seasoned judgment and best qualified
[u'ople shall be secured to study every branch of
the subject. Re-creation in its highest sense is
part of education.

 

Oakland's Christmas Pageant

(Continued from page .133)

sparkle as he watches the groups of participants
(lejmrting merrily for home. lle sought from the
directors the values of the pageant. He is in-

formed that this festival is a means of develop-
ing the cultural, emotional and recreational aspects
of life in the experience of its participants. Much
value derived from the pageant comes through
weeks of preparation—it means growth to all par-
ticipants, both individually and municipally.

It seems to John Mullens that the definition of
a pageant was really worked out perfectly in
Oakland’s Christmas Pageant—the getting to-
gether of people to work out and present joyously
a beautiful theme.

Summaries oi Discussion

Group Meetings
(Continued from page 448)

we need a change of attitude, a recognition of
our opportunities for the richer, more varied pro-
gram that we have been talking about. \Ve need
to recognize that the standards of perfection
which the genius, which the artist, sets for him-
self do not need to be set for those of us who
for recreational purposes wish to express our-
selves in various art forms; that the joy in the
doing is satisfactory so long as there is possibility
of progress towards the beautiful.

There is a difficulty and a serious one. There
is the need for the inspired leadership of zestful
practitioners in all of these varied human needs,
for men and women who are also social engineers.
How can we find, how can we train, how can we
utilize, how surely must we pay for men and
women who can think of the recreational leader-
ship job in terms of social engineering. the utiliza;
tion of the forces of the community, and who can
at the same time be themselves zestful practition-
ers, or at least be able to find zcstful practitioners,
who can inspire and lead and guide men and
women in the things that they want to do.

\Ve talked a bit about the imposition of pro-
grams and the desirability that programs should
arise out of the desires of the people. Mr. Russell
contributed the llostou technique of neighborhood
committees in the various interests of music.
drama and sports. T 0 these interested groups from
among the people themselves, who are prepared
to give democratic, understanding guidance, are
assigned specialists and organizers—the zestful
practitioners—in these various fields, who try to
serve the felt desires of the people as represented
by these neighborhood committees.

SUMMARIES OF DISCUSSION GROUP MEETINGS

There was recognition of the actual shift which
is now taking place, that has taken place, in the
predominant interest of recreation leaders—I
won’t say from the play of children but certainly
to the recreational needs of adults with increased
leisure.

There was some resentment at the suggestion
that we need to fear the opportunity which is now
ours because of relief funds, adequately to staff
ourselves as best we can with men and women
who can give leadership to the various needs which
are now arising, because we may over-staff our—
selves from the point of view of some future
time when support will be taken away. Let’s take
advantage of what we have, and find out what
we need to do when the bridge comes to be
crossed.

We got ourselves almost bogged toward the
end, and didn’t have time to fight our way
through. on the questions of whether or not we
should try to make our activities self-supporting
and also whether we should judge our results by
numbers served, though only as spectators, or by
participation in “worth-while” activities. We
didn’t have time to work through that.

It did seem to us that the present opportunity
was a challenge to our recreational leadership;
that we should be ready for many new kinds of
administration; that we should be ready for other
new things; and that it is our task to keep, if we
can, the leadership which we have for the benefit
of those who can use our experience in the organ-
ization and the programming of the future.

Preparing for Christmas

(Continued from page 451)

workers who will turn in to help make frames,
looms, tools and accessories, as need develops for
more than we have or can now provide.

Materials will be secured and sold at slightly
more than cost, to be self liquidating, and a store
booth will enable workers to get needed supplies.
\Ve are determining the cost of all materials en-
tering into a given project so the workers will not
need to buy wastefully. If a toy is to be cut from
a piece of plywood, for example, the price will
include not only the cost of the wood, but also the
glue, brads or screws necessary to put it together,
a sheet of sandpaper to smooth its edges, and the
shellac, paint and varnish needed to finish it. The
worker will not have to buy a whole can of each
color paint to complete it.

       

 

 

N0!

BRING

EVERWEAR SAFETY
. . . TO YOUR SWINGS!‘

The New EverWear Spring-Rubber Safety Seat for
Swings. No. SR-206. (United States and Canadian
Patents Pending) cushions every blow and prevents
serious accidents. It is made of an ingenious ar-
rangement of special, EverWear-designed. fabric-re—
enforced. tough. springy, long-wearing. tubular. tire
stock rubber. which is so assembled in combination
with spring steel, as to give a soft. Springy. resilient.
swing seat of remarkable safety, strength and,
durability.

All outside surfaces of the seat are springy rubber:
SAFETYI All top and bottom surfaces are corru-
gated to prevent slipping: SAFETYI All edges are
soft, springy. and resilient: SAFETYI All ends
bend easily under any blow or pressure (but im—
mcdiately spring back to their normal shape after
the pressure is removed): SAFETYl No metal
parts are exposed where they can become dangerous:
SAFETYl No wood enters its construction: it can-
not warp. split nor splinter: SAFETYl Requires
no painting.

Suspension clevises are reversible, making both sides

of the seat available for use (this feature doubles the

life of the seat): DURABILITYI Rubber tough.
long-wearing tire stock: DURABILITYI Spring
steel is painted to resist rust: DURABILITYI
Built to withstand heavy weights (tested under an
active load of 950 pounds): STRENGTH! Edge—

ways. the seat can be sprung or bent under pressure
or blows (adding further to its SAFETYI) .

Weighs 5% pounds (light for the rugged require-
ments of its service): SAFETYI Priced within
reach of every buyer who values SAFETY on the
playground ($4.50 each. net, f. o. b. Springfield,
Ohio. U. S. A. Price subject to change without
notice): ECONOMY!

Investigate The New EverWear Spring-Rubber
Safety Seat for Swings. Buy them to replace old
swing seats. Specify them for all new swing outfits.

NOW I !
BRING EVERWEAR SAFETY
. . . 10 YOUR SWINGS!

Manufactured by '
The EverWear Manufacturing Company

Springfield. Ohio. U. S. A.

The World's otdert and largest exclusive maker of ptay-

ground. beach and poo! apparatus; a complete line of the
SAFEST and most DURABLE recreation apparatus made.

455

4'36 AJUONC OUR FOLKS

Stores and industries have been consistently co-
operative in suggestions and ideas to make the
venture successful, particularly as to materials.
We feared at first that there might be some op-
position to the plan as tending to decrease Christ-
mas shopping volume, but that has not proved to
be the case. Materials used in this program must
be bought somewhere, and if a larger volume of
Christmas gift giving is stimulated by the pro-
grant, commerce stands to gain rather than lose
by it. Once the family starts on a plan for mak-
ing more of its Christmas remembrances among
its own members and to its friends, the contagion
increases. The commercial interests see nothing
but what is good for business in the undertaking.

Another element in the plans for Christmas
may be added. A movement is already under way
to contact all church and musical groups to plan
neighborhood carolling groups to circulate through
the residence districts with sleighbells and song on
some prearranged day during the holiday week.
Community toy parades are being worked up
through a central committee, and in the parks an
effort will be made to popularize the making of
Christmas lanterns to hang in home windows as
Jack-o-lanterns are used on Hallowe'en. A pub-
licity campaign with the press cooperating is being
planned. patterns for the lanterns will be sug-
gested, and with all of the clubs and associations
of the city joining to promote the plan, something
of a new tradition in community celebration of
the Holiday season may develop as a people's
movement in the homes of Chicago.

Among Our FolkS'

LI—I. IthRl-ZTT, formerly Superintendent of Rec-
teation in Newark, New Jersey, is now
Supervisor of Recreation for the State Depart-
ment of Education of Connecticut which is re-
sponsible for the emergency recreation and edu-
cation service in that state. Ernest Seillert suc-
ccedcd Mr. liarrett in Newark.

 

(i. (i. lippley, Superintendent of Recreation in
Evansville, Indiana, is devoting two-thirds of his
time in service as ReCreation Director of the
emergency recreation work being developed by
the Governor's Conuuission for Unemployment
Relief in Indiana.

Charles II. English, Executive Secretary of the
Philadelphia I’layground and Recreation Associa-
tion, is giving half his time as State Supervisor
of Recreation and Leisure Time Activities for

the Pennsylvania State Emergency Education
Council.

A. \V. Thompson, formerly State Director of
Physical Education in Michigan and recently as-
sociated with the State Teachers College of \\"est
Chester, Pennsylvania, on November 1st became
Director of Recreation and Physical Education of
the Board of Education in Grand Rapids. Michi-
gan. Mr. Thompson succeeds \V. G. Morrison
in this position.

Dorothea Nelson, formerly Superintendent of
Recreation in Louisville, Kentucky, has taken a
position with the newly created Chicago Park Dis-
trict. \Valter R. H. Sherman has taken Miss Nel-
son's place in Louisville.

Jeanne H. Barnes, formerly Superintendent of
Recreation in Morgantown, \Vcst Virginia, is
now associated with the National Recreation As-
sociation where she will serve as Field Secretary,
Play in Institutions. Francis J. \Vhite is Miss
Barnes’ successor in Morgantown.

Arthur Miller, formerly in charge of recreation
in \Vilkes _Iiarre, Pennsylvania, is serving as
Chief of the Technical, Professional and
\Vonien’s \Vork Division, Los Angeles County.
California, S.E.R.A.

\Valter Hansen, until recently Superintendent
of Recreation at Tacoma, \Vashington, has be-
come Director of Physical Education and Ath-
letics at the Oceanside High School, Oceanside,
California.

\Villiam A. Burr has succeeded H. E. Bremer
as Supervisor of School Recreation Service, Glen-
dale. California.

Leslie J. Mahoney has become General Super-
intendent, and Laura Herron Supervisor of Rec-
reation..r\ctivities. with the new Department of
Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation at Phoenix.
Arizona.

Mrs. Helen G. \\'entwortlt is Director of Rec-
reation at Alhambra, California, having succeeded
Claude Downing.

Kenneth Smith, a recent graduate of the Na-
tional Recreation School, has been appointed
Superintendent of Recreation at Pomona, Cali-

fornia.

 

A Playground Federation in Reading—Read-
ing, Pennsylvania, has a playground federation
which brings together all of the neighborhood
associations. Its object is to act as a clearing
house on all playground problems and to dis-
cuss future plans for the playground move-
ment.

WORLD AT PLAY

 

AN innovation in
Oakland’s playground

program last summer

was a series of chil-
dren’s concerts given under the direction of the
Recreation Department by the S.E.R.A. Orches-
tra, consisting of forty-five musicians, all of
whom have had professional experience. The
programs were essentially for children but
were regularly attended by hundreds of adults.
The concerts were given at different centrally
located playgrounds throughout the city.

An Innovation in Oak—
land’s Program

 

DURING the month
of July interest in

the handcraft pro-

gram conducted by
the Playground and Recreation Association of
\Vyoming Valley was greatly enhanced by the
presence of Princess Chinquilla, a Cheyenne
Indian, who had charge of the bead work, cos—
tume making and tom-tom orchestras. She also
taught the play leaders the dances used in the
Indian pageant held on August 25th.

On July 2nd the state recreational project
went into effect. As a result of this the associa-
tion had the services of 125 workers in hand-
craft, drama, music and athletics and of twenty-
four supervisors and a thirty-piece band of un-
employed musicians. Each week two workers
call upon forty-live shut-ins to whom fruit,
flowers and magazines are donated by merchants
and interested citizens. A radio program is given
twice a week.

Deve10pments in
Wilkes Barre, Pa.

THE first public ski
ground in the North-

west was opened last

winter by the Play-
ground Division of the Seattle, Washington,
Park Department. The ski course lies only two
hours distant by automobile from the city
limits. C.W'.A. employees were used to clear the
ground. In January, 1934, the park was of-
ficially opened with a mammoth ski carnival.
Since the opening of the area from 800 to 1,000

Seattle’s Ski
Park

people have visited the park every week-end.
Interest in skiing and winter sports has been
stimulated at an outdoor “ground school” for
beginners sponsored by the Park Department,
where ski experts were employed for instruc-
tion purposes.

 

IN South Plainlield,
N. J., with the aid of
the Leisure - Time
Division of the Emer-
gency Relief Administration, a playground has
been established through volunteer effort. A
number of citizens formed a sponsoring com-
mittee, obtained the use of some vacant lots
and built a playground. From discarded tele-'
phone and electric light poles and lumber from
a church which had been torn down, these am—
bitious citizens constructed swings, ping pong
tables, work benches, bleachers and a back—
stop and enclosed the entire playground with
the materials donated. There is a sand box
about 25 feet square, for which a carload of
sand was donated. The children and adults
made most of the toys used on the playground.
The four volunteer workers who are supplying
the leadership have registered at the play—
ground 500 children and adults. One of the
features is a Wednesday night community
night, when some special attraction is offered.
A boxing tournament of nine bouts drew a
group of spectators numbering over 3,000.
Block dances, band concerts and a colored
chorus of about 150 voices are among the ac-

complishments.

A Playground At
No Cost

 

THE Recreation and
Playground Associa—

tion of Lancaster,
Pa., during the years
of the depression has, with the use of linoleum
blocks as a stamp, made all its playground
awards. These are stamped on ribbon and por-
tray the event for which the prizes are given.
This plan has led to an endless variety of de-
signs. Very attractive awards have been made,
which the children prize highly.

Inexpensive Play—
ground Awards

457

45$: .llAGAZIA'ES AND PAJIPHLETS

Manual of Recreational Activities
For Young Men's Work Camps

This practical manual prepared for the
use of leaders in work camps has much

value for leaders of older boys and young
men everywhere

Because . . .

O lt describes tournament methods and gives
directions ior a number oi athletic games.

0 it outiines some oi the activities involving
the iundamental skills oi athletic games.

0 It contains directions ior contests and com-
bative stunts—ior low organlzed games

and relays.

0 it oiiers suggestions ior social recreation.
dramatic and musical activities. craits and

hobbies.
Price 5.50

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue
New York City

SWIMMING POOL DATA
AND REFERENCE ANNUAL

1934 Edition

(formerly Notable Swimming Pools and Guide to
Equipment and Supplier)

Price $2.00

WATER GAMES, WATER STUNTS,

LEGAL DECISIONS, LIABILITY, IN-
SURANCE, POOL DESIGN, POOL SAN-

ITATION, POOL MANAGEMENT. ETC.

Hoiiman-Harris, Inc.

hols Fourth Avenue New York City

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles l
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

          

MAGAZINES

The Journal of Educational Sociology, November 193-!
Research As a Basis for Recreational Planning

The Journal of Health and Physical Education.
November 193-!
"The Olympia of the North"—-A Visit to the Niels
Bulrh School, by Mary E. Greenwood
Function of a State High School Athletic Associa-
tion, by E. A. Thomas
The New Leisure Challenges the Schools, by Eugene

T. Lies
“America Marches On"—A Historical Pageant, by

Hilda Southall
National Standards of Achievement for Girls. by

Amy Howland
A Progressive Game Party, by G. I. Kern

The Architectural Record, November 193-!

A Music Shell in Milwaukee
St. Louis Municipal Auditorium and Community

Center

Landscape Architecture. October I934
National Planning. by Charles W'. Eliot, 2nd

The Research Quarterly of the American Physical Educa-
tion Association, October 193-!

Causes of College Sport Accidents; Preliminary
Findings from a Study of Safety in College Phy-
sical Education, by Floyd R. Eastwood

Committee Report on Gymnasium and Athletic Field
Equipment, by Carl H. Burkhardt

Journal of Adult Education (Supplement) October 1934
Workers’ Education

PAMPHLETS

Ninth Annual Report of the Department of Recreation—
Hamtramck. Michigan. 1933-1934

Radio At a Cultural Force. by \Villiam S. Paley

Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc., New York.
N. Y.
School Buildings A: Public Forums
American Civil Liberties Union, New York, N. Y.

Report of the Monroe County Regional Planning Board
for l933—Rorhester. New York

Program of the First Annual Recreation Exposition
SIIOHSOTC(l.b}' the Westchester County Recreation
Commission. White Plains, New YOrlc

National Capital Parks
U. S. Department of the Interior, Washington. D C.

New York State Parks
State Council of Parks, Albany. New York

Annual Report of the Board of Park Commissioners. Lo:
Angrlet. California. I933

Eleventh Annual Report of the City Manager of Berkeley.
CaliIOrnia. 1933-1934

Recreational Use of Northern Michigan Cut-Over Lands
Michigan State College liulletin No. 2-17

 

New Books in the Leisure Time Field

 

The Leisure League Little Books

Leisure League of America, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New
York. Each $.25.

HE LEISURE LEAGUE or AMERICA is performing a gen-

uine service in publishing this comprehensive serics of
little books on leisure time interests to sell at a nominal
cost. Hobbies of all kinds are treated in the booklets
which have already been published or are on the press or
in preparation. Every hobbyist, whatever his taste, is
bound to find in this series something to meet his need.

In the July issue of RECREATION there appeared a re-
view of Earnest Elmo Calkins’ Care and Feeding of
Hobby Horsesw-a delightful introduction to the series.
In addition the following are now available: You Can
Ii/rite, by F. Fraser Bond; Getting Acquainted with
Yo r Children, by James W. Howard; How to Spend
I’onr Husband’s Leisure, by Doris \Ve‘bster; What to
Do About Your Invention, by Edward Thomas; Tropical
Fish, by Lucile Quarry Mann; Photography for Fun.
by William M. Strong; Quilting, by Elizabeth King;
Mnsie for Eterybody, by Sigmund Spaeth; A Garden
in the House, by Helen Van Pelt \Vilson; The Life of
the Party, by Fred Menaker and Franklin Folsom; How
to Sell What You Write, by Myron M. Stearns; How to
Design Your Own Clothes, by Hannah Corbett Shelton.

Lanterns and Floats

By Z. T. Egardner and James H. Lackey. Recreation

Department of the South Park Commissioners, Chicago,
Illinois. $.35.

NE or THE outstanding contributions which the Rec-

reation Department of the Chicago South Park
Commissioners has made to the art side of the recreation
program has been the lantern parade held for a number
of years which has involved the construction of lanterns
and floats. The result has been the deve10pment of many
original and beautiful designs. This booklet, incorporat-
ing hundreds of dcsigns, will be welcomcd with enthusi-
asm by all who care for bcauty in the construction of the
articles produced in the handcraft pregram of play-
grounds and rccreation centers. In compiling this book—
let as well as the other volumcs of the Leisure Hobby
Series, draltsmen and artists have consulted to portray

as simply as possible the essentials not only of pattern
but also of process.

Model Airplanes

By B. C. Friedman. Recreation Department of the South
Park Commissioners, Chicago, Illinois. $.35.

ONE or THE BOOKLETS in the valuable Leisure Hobby

Series being issued by the Recreation Department
of the Chicago South Park Commissioners which will be
of keenest interest to recreation workers and other lead—
ers is entitled Model Airplanes. In common with the
other booklets of the series it contains the step by step

scquence to be followed in construction and the detailed
plans and drawings which are making all of the booklets
in this series so outstanding and practical.

Wood-Carving as a Hobby

By Herbert \V. Faulkner, Ph.B., M.E. Harper and
Brothers, New York. $2.00.

ARNEST ELMO CALKINS, who himself is Opening up to

us through his own books new and delightful hobbies
for leisure time enjoyment, highly recommends wood-
carving as a spare time occupation in his introduction to
Mr. Faulkner’s book. “Mr. Faulkner,” he says, “will
lead you into pleasant hours and fresh interests and re-
store your soul; for intimate first-hand knowledge of a
craft opens new doors on life, and links you with one
of the noblest aspects of human endeavor, the long line
of skills and crafts by which the hand of man has added,
beauty to the world.” The author’s directions are ex-
plicit and understandable, and there are instructions re-

garding tools, designs and woods to be used as well as
directions for carvings of various types.

Christmas Giving

Issued by McCall’s Magazine. Obtainable through Serv-
ice Editor, McCall’s, Dayton, Ohio. $.10.

THIS BOOKLET, based on the experience of St. Paul,

Minnesota, in sharing the Spirit of Christmas has
much to offer community groups in planning their Christ-
mas celebrations. The organization for community
Christmas programs, methods of assembling the names
of families to receive gifts, toy shops and hospitals, dis-
tribution of Christmas dinners, and finances and publicity
are among the subjects discussed. An interesting feature

is a chart showing a plan for Christmas organization for
city, town or village. -

The Chance of a Lifetime
By \Valter B. Pitkin. Simon and Schuster, New York.
$2.00.
ATREMENDOUS CHALLENGE to Americans under forty is
embodied in this book which carries the subtitle
“Marching Orders for the Lost Generation." \Vhether
or not one agrees with all Mr. Pitkin’s economic thcories
or with his political and social theses, there is much good
advice to Young America in his message and a vast
amount of illuminating information on present day con-
ditions and the activities of government and private
groups of various kinds. Best of all, there is a call to
service, a challenge to the use of unrecognized power of
youth which is compelling and timely.
“This book peddles no UtOpia," says Mr. Pitkin in his
forward. “It champions nothing more than ingenuity,
persistence, hard work, and the high resolve to trample

under foot the wretched phiIOSOphy of scarcity which has
been gaining vogue of late.”

459

460

Now York Walk ook

By Raymond H. Torrey. Frank Place and Robert L.
Dickinson. Dodd, Mead and Company, New York.
$2.50.

The hiker has his day in this book which represents a
valuable contribution to outdoor enjOyntent and an in-
centive to leading people into country trails which the
authors have been exploring for years. The volume was
first published in 1923. Now reissued in completely re-
vised form with many illustrations. it describes excur-
sions afoot within a radius of fifty to one hundred and
fifty miles of New York. including forcst trails in moun-

tain regions.

Hobbiee For Everybody

Edited by Ruth Lampland. Harper and Brothers,
New York. $3.00.

Here is an anthology of a new and timely type which
should make a wide appeal. The volume had its incep-
tion in a series of radio broadcasts on Hobbies for the
Larger Leisure which the editor arranged for the
Y..\I.C.A. in c00peration with the National Broadcasting
Company. The response was so great that it was felt
advisable to expand the material into book form. In the
resulting volume fifty notable amateur authorities have
described their personal enjoyment of as many different
hobbies and tell how they have developed them. The list
of authors in its diversity represents a complete cross-
section of American life, while the range of hobbies is
wide enough to include a congenial avocation for every-
one. Among the activities described are fishing. soap
scnlpturc, yachting. antiques, astronomy, chess. music
and tennis. At the end of each chapter sources of more
intensive information are given for those who wish to
make further exploration of the hobbies.

The Scout Circus

Edited by Lorne \V. Barclay. Boy
America. New York. $.25.

Though intended primarily as a manual of inter-tr00p
demonstrations for Boy Scouts, recreation workers and
others who engage in the increasingly popular sport of
staging amateur circuses will find here much that is
practical and helpful on circus organization and pro-
gramming. The manual is the result of actual experi-
ence in the Boy Scout field.

Prizes and Presents Every Girl Can Make

By Edwin T. Hamilton. Dodd, Mead and Company.
New York. $2.50.

.\lany recreation workcrs. club leaders and tcachcrs
are familiar with Mr. Hamilton's'Handicroft for Girls
and other practical hooks. In this, his latest publication,
he has given fifty-nine simple and practical ideas for the
girl who wants to make her own gifts and likes to make
things but who is not yet ready to make the more elabo-
rate crafts described in his earlier book. Practically all
tools and materials for the projects outlined may be pur-
chased at five and ten cent stores. Directions are ex-
plicit and there are many illustrations.

Scouts of

How to Lead Discussion—
A Guide For the Use of Group Leaders

By LeRoy C. Bowman. The Womans Press. New
York. $.35.

The field of discussion methods is not without tools,
but many of them are so complicated that the average
person has come to believe that the science of discussion
is too technical for his grasp. In this pamphlet .\-lr. Bow-
man has limited the verbiage of pedagogy and has
couched his presentation: in terms of common sense. The
art of discussion leadership has been made to seem a
ponible skill for ordinary people to achieve.

NEW BOOKS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP. MANAGEMENT,
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF
MARCII 3, 1933. of Rscsurtox, published monthly at New
York, N. Y., for October I, 1934.

Star: or New Your,
Couuvv or New Your. :1.

Before me. a Notary Public in and for the State and county
aforesaid personal! appeared Ii. S. Braucher, who, having been
duly sworn accor ing to law. dcposes and says that be ts the
editor of chsurtou end that the following is. to the best of his
knowledge and belief. a true statement of the ownership, man-
agement (and if a dail paper, the circulation), etc., of the afore-
said publication for the date shown in theoabove caption. re-
quired by the Act of March 3, I933, embodied In section 53?.
Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this

form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, man-
aging editor, and business managers ate:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York, N. Y.

Editor: H. S. Braueher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York. N. Y.

Managing Editor: Abbie Condit. 315 Fourth Avenue. New
York, N. v. -

Business Manager: Arthur Williams. 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name
and address must be stated and also immediately thereurder the
names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per
cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a car-

ration. the names and addresses of the individual owners must

given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincor atcd
concern, its name and address, as well as those of each in ividual

member, must be given.)

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue. New
York, N. Y.

Mrs. Edward “K Biddle, Carlisle. Pa.: \Villiam Butterworth.
Moline. Ill.; Clarence bf. Clark, Philadel hia. Pa.‘ Henry L.
Corbett. Portland, Ore.: Mrs. Arthur G. ummer,JacksonvilIe,
Fla,: F. Truhee Davison, Locust Valley. L. I. . Y.; Mrs.
Thomas A. Edison, West Orange, N. J.;d]obn I'I. Finle ,. New
York N. Y.; Robert Garrett, Baltimore, M .: Austin 1?. rtfiiths,
Seattle, Wash.: Charles Ilayden, New York, N. Y.; Mrs. Charles
V. Iliekox. Michigan City, Ind.: Mrs. Francis deLac° Il-de,
Plainfield. N. J.: Gustavus T. Kirby. New York, N. Y.: i. 3 FR.
Landon, Indianapolis, Ind.: Mrs. Charles D. Lanier Greenwich,
Conn.; Robert Lassiter, Charlotte N. C.: {oseph  Boston,
Mass.: Edward E. Loomis, New York, N. '.: J. 11. McCurd ,
Springfield, Mass.; Otto T. Mailer? Philadelphia. PL; “’alter .
he . Pittsburgh, Pa.; Carl E. .tilliken. Auguste, Me.; Mrs.
Ogd'cn L. Mills, “'oodbury N. Y.; Mrs. James \\’. W'adsworth,
r., Washington. D. C.: J. C. “'alsb, New York, N. Y.; Frederick
f. Warhurg, New York, N. Y.: John G. \Vinant, Cuncord. N. IL:
Mrs. William II. Woodin, Jr., Tucson. Aria.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagee-s, and other security
holders owning or holding I per cent or more of total amount of
bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so
state.) bone.

4. That the two aragraphs next above, giving the names of
the owners. stockho ders. and security holders, if any, contain
not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they ap-
pear upon the books of the company but also. in cases where the
stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the com-
pany as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation. the name of
the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is
given; also that the said two paragra hs contain statements ent-
brecing alliant's full knowledge and be ief as to the circumstances
and conditions under which stockholders and security holders
who do not appear is n the books of the company as trustees, bold
stock and securities n a capacity other than that of a bone ftde
owner: and this adiant has no reason to beiieve that any other
person. association, or corporation has any intereet direct or in-
direct in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so
stated by him.

S.‘That the average. number of copies of each issue of this pub-
iieatton sold or dlnl'tIIIJiCd. throug the mails or otherwise, to
paid snbscribers. during the months preceding the date shown
ebtlsve) is (This Information is required from daily publications
on y.

Ii. 5. Duncan.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 19th day of Septem-
ber. 1934.

[HM-I S. Bstqasttu,

Notary Public, Kings County.

oNo. 6!. Reg. No. 6079. Certificate filed in New York County.
No. 150. No. 6-8-95. Commission expires March 30. 1936.

1

l
1

