Mere Play

’

" E IS ONLY a play leader.’ “He has nothing to do with the serious work of
the world." "In our classes we prepare children for buSIness, for earnlng
a living, for work.”

Only a play and recreation leader. Only a person who helps a child in the
glorious present moment to live; to do the thing that gives the utmost satisfac-
tion; to knock out a home run on the baseball field; to swim, to dive; to fashion
a miniature airplane that with rubber band power stays aloft for ten minutes; to
build water-wheels that run; to tramp the woods and learn the trees and wild
flowers; to learn the call of the birds; to sing, to dance, to be gay.

Only a play leader. Nothing to do with the serious work of life. Merely
helping a child to be a light-hearted child, to live beautifully, simply, naturally
in the present, to spread laughter and gayety and reality all about him. Helping
children to be themselves, really to live—when they might be learning to work,
preparing for business. Think of the training for work and business these chil—
dren might have if these hours were not given over to play. If only the play
leaders would use these play hours to train the children through their play in
principles of buying and selling, of banking and trade. Instead they waste the
children's time with music and dancing and poetry and fairy tales and idle
games that are to have no part in serious life later.

0 folly, folly. Have we lived so long in the presence of little children, so
near to the heart of God, stood on such holy ground, watched the sacred flame
in the burning bush and with our profane lips dare we prattle of what is serious,
of what has permanent value and talk of using the play hours of children as a
time for training for work and trade and say only a play leader?

Play is the serious business of childhood. The play of a little child is the
most serious thing in all the world. Play is a part of a great whole. Play builds
the cathedral of life. Play gives meaning to the world.

The play leader helps to build a world in which no longer is living always
postponed until a future time that never comes; in which child and man alike
are not afraid to live in the present; in which the present has at least equal
value with the future; in which life itself is exalted; in which the end,——-growth,
fulfillment, abundant living is exalted beyond any of the parts that go to make
up the whole.

Only a play leader. The h0pe of the future lies in the preservation of child-
hood, in winning grown people to the wisdom and simplicity of children. ‘Ex-
cept as ye become as little children, ye do not enter the kingdom of life.’ ”

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

JULY, I934

169

 

A Neglected Language

the composer of that de-
lightful song ‘It was a
lover and his lass’ — pub-
lished a little book entitled
A Plaine and Basie Introduction to Practical!
,Musicke, near the beginning of which he tells the

following anecdote :—

I N I 597 Thomas Morley—

Supper being ended, and Musicke bookes (according
to the custome) being brought to the table, the mistresse
of the house presented me with a part, earnestly request-
ing me to sing. But when, after many excuses, I pro-
tested unfainedly that I could not, every one began to
wonder. Yea, some whispered to others, demaunding
how I was brought up; so that, upon shame of mine
ignorance, I go now to seeke out mine old friend master
Gnorimus, to make my selfe his scholler.

Just why, in the history of the civilization of
different nations, there have been different fash-
ions in music would be an interesting subject of
inquiry. In Morley’s day it was the fashion for
cultured people to sing and play together, not for
an audience to hear, but solely for their own

By HENRY S. DRINKER, JR.
Phi|ade|phia' pa. ers, set the whole world

and Liszt, with their follow-

agog over virtuosity. Other

nations have had other

varying musical experience,
now engrossed with one musical fashion, now
with another.

While in the United States we have as yet no
such important musical history, within the past
generation, at least, one musical fashion has
changed for the better. It is no longer considered
‘sissy’ for boys, or queer and infra dig. for men,
to take a serious interest in music, as was true
when I was a boy; we can now hear superb per-
formances of the best music by college glee clubs.
Our present fashion in music, however, is to listen
to bigger and better orchestras. During the past
thirty years America has had a veritable orgy
of listening. Orchestras, opera companies, and
soloists,*the greatest in the world, have flocked
to our shores and played before packed houses.

pleasure and musical experience.

them a form of speech, an-
other language, used infor-
mally every day to supple-
ment words in expressing
emotion. So it was, too, for
a hundred years after Mor-
ley. Perhaps the most vivid
recollections of Pepys, to a
music lover, are the trios
and quartettes in the garden
in which the maid, the cook,
or the man-servant took a
part. Indeed, Pepys would
not hire a new girl until she
had demonstrated her abil-
ity to take an intelligent
part in the family music.

A hundred years after
Morley, H a n d e I started
England singing his orator-
ios and developed the great
choruses. Still another hun-
dred years later, Paganini

Music was to

One evening, five years ago, we asked
about twenty of our musical friends to
meet Mr. Zanzig an hear what he had
to say about informa music in the home.
Our singing on that evening, under his
inspired leadership, has developed
apaee, until on last Sunday evening,
with an amateur conductor, we sang,
straight through, the liftcen choruses of
the Bach Mass, with no audience but
our 120 eager and excited singers.

My subsequent acquaintance with Mr.
Zanzig makes me sure that everywhere
he goes he leaves behind him similar

nuclei teeming with potential growth

for group singing.

Our American beauty roses of music
are being amply cared for. Our need
now is for gardeners who know how to
make the daisies and violets of music
grow and multiply all over the land.

For this, the grandest imaginable head
gardener is Mr. Zanzig.

-——HENRY S. DRINKER, JR.

Our musical taste has thus been immeasurably

improved -— witness the
present popularity of Bach
and Brahms; but how many
of the thousands of intelli-
gent men and women who
attend all the concerts use
mu sic themselves as 'a
means of self-expression,
or even realize the possibili-
ties of doing so?

\Vith music as a form of
passive entertainment at its
zenith, music as a language,
a form of speech available
to the ordinary man and
woman, is generally ne-
glected. In Wales and in
parts of England, the people
all sing together as part of
their daily lives and can
read from the score as read-
ily as could the guests at
Morley’s dinner party; in

171

172 A NEGLECTED LANGUAGE

G e r m a n y and Austria and
other parts of Europe, the
average cultured person can
usually both sing and play an
instrument; but in America
the performance of music is
generally regarded as a thing
apart, for the elect alone, the
mysteries of which it is im-
possible for anyone to delve into except those
possessing a special gift or talent. Although there
is now an enormous demand for music for the
listener, there is relatively little organized effort
to enlarge popular participation in the perform-
ance of music. Its avowed patrons mistakenly
suppose that the fundamental human need for
emotional expression through music can be ade-
quately satisfied by mere listening. People seem
unable to believe that music can be as simple, di-
rect, and personal as it really is. Accordingly,
they persist in clothing it with unnecessary mys-

tery and complexity.

Clearly, our present general failure to partici-
pate in music making is not due to any national
lack of the musical faculty or to the absence of
a desire by people to play or sing. We are directly
descended from any number of musical nations;
among the scores of persons to whom I have
talked of this, I do not remember one intelligent
adult, classed as ‘non-musical.’ who did not envy
those lucky ones who are able to make their own
music together. \Vhile the radio and the gramo-
phone have perhaps contributed to the discourage-
ment of some amateur virtuosi, these devices can
no more eliminate permanently the fundamental
need for the individual adventure in music than
the movies can eliminate that for the individual
adventure in love. On the contrary, by spreading
the knowledge of music they will greatly stimulate
the desire for general music making.

The fashion of listening is thus but a habit,
engendered and perpetuated by a widespread mis-
apprehension of the purpose and function of mu-
sic in its relation to life and of the possibility for
the direct participation in music by the average
person. Music is too often associated with solos
and virtuosity. amateur music making being con-
sidered a mere parlor trick. Instead. it should
be regarded as a delightful new language, for the
personal use of each one of us. If only our grow-
ing host of music lovers could be made to realize
that they themselves can learn to take part in

This artiele is published by permis-
sion of the Atlantic Monthly, to-
gether with an additional statement
by the author. Mr. A. D. Zanzig,
whom Mr. Drinker mentions in his
statement, is the direetor of the
Musie Service established by the
National Reereation Assoeiation.

group music as easily and as
well as they learn to play
bridge or golf — some better,
some worse, but all well
enough to get along and en-
joy it—ne Americans would
in a decade become the really
musical nation which our

genuine interest in music en-
titles us to be.

11

Doubtless performances by amateurs are greatly
inferior, from an artistic pomt of view, to those
of the professionals. Our present concern is not,
however, for the effect of amateur music on the
listeners, but for that on the performers them-
selves, whose musical devel0pment can be ade-
quately achieved in no other way. By actually’
singing or playing together a great musical com-
position, thc performers attain an intimate con-
ception of its beauties and of the art of reproduc-
ing it which enables them, when they next hear it
perfectly done by experts, both to understand the
composition and to appreciate the performance in
a way that no amount of mere listening could
accomplish.

Practically everyone who has exp'crienced the
delight of singing or playing a great work of mu-
sic with a group of serious and enthusiastic col-
leagues will, l believe, agree that the pleasure
realized from a very mediocre performance far
exceeds that from listening to the most perfect
rendering by others, unless it be of a work which
they have sung or played themselves. Since his-
tory began, our ancestors have used music—the
song and dance, melody and rhythm—to rclease
their supercharged emotions. Playing and sing-
ing together are a means of individual emotional
outlet for which there is no substitute. To parti-
cipate, with a group of reverent enthusiasts, in the
performance of a work like the Bach B Minor
.\Iass constitutes a spiritual experience which it is
utterly impossible to attain vicariously. and which
has the effect of smoothing out the participant's
souL

Games like golf, in which normally the players
t'ar outnumber the spectators, are what make
Anglo-Saxons an athletic nation; not football,
baseball, boxing, wrestling, and similar sports, in
which practically all participation by persons past
the prime of youth is by looking on. Probably
90 per cent of the spectators at a golf or tennis

A NEGLECTED LANGUAGE 173

match are there to see how it is that the experts
do, so easily and perfectly, what they themselves
do so badly, though with continued enthusiasm,
pleasure, and physical benefit to themselves.

In musical education far too much attention
has been devoted to the brilliance and technical
perfection of the individual performance, too little
to fitting the pupils for an effective part in group
music. There has resulted an undue proportion
of amateur soloists, whose knowledge of music
is limited to the few selections which they have
struggled to master. Many such beginners be-
come discouraged and drop their music before
they reach the period in life when they need and
can enjoy it the most. If but a fraction of the
time, effort, and talent required to turn out a poor
soloist were devoted to teaching the pupil to read
music easily at sight and to acquiring a first-hand
acquaintance with the treasures of musical liter-
ature, most of these disheartened virtuosi would
become capable and devoted ensemble singers and
players, and so continue for the balance of their
lives.

There are, also, it is to be regretted, some music
teachers, particularly of singing, who are appar-
ently more interested in exploiting their pupils for
the benefit of the teacher than in fitting them to
lead fuller and richer musical lives. These teach—
ers unduly emphasize virtuosity and discourage
group music, which they naturally fear as a men—
ace to the continuance of the kind of music in
which their profit lies.

III

While the general_familiarity with music in
America has vastly increased during the past
thirty years, it is still far below our general famil-
iarity with literature. On a recent trip abroad my
family and I had, during one of the first meals, a
short argument on a musical subject, which was
apparently overheard by the passengers at the
next table. \Vhen, after two or three days, we
established the usual Atlantic intimacy with them,
we found that I had been classified as the con—
ductor of an orchestra in the Middle West,
whereas I am simply a Philadelphia corporation
lawyer. No one but a professional pianist or
violinist is sUpposed to know how many violin
sonatas were written by Beethoven, or to be able
to recognize any of them. Even among profes-
sionals the general knowledge of music is often
astonishingly narrow. The singers know only their
songs and are for the most part interested prin—

cipally in voice production. Comparatively few
instrumental soloists have any extensive familiar-
ity with chamber music, much less with the great
works for voices.

Our growing generation is taught literature, not
with a false hope of discovering or developing
new Shakespeares or Thackerays, but to enable
the average citizen to write an intelligent letter,
[0 turn a neat phrase in conversation, to be able
to make or recognize an apt quotation; above all,
to develop a real love for literature which will
persist and grow as it nourishes itself through
life, attaining its maximum of pleasure and satis-
faction only with ripe maturity. What would be
thought of a graduating class in English, however
cleverly its members were able to recite a few
poems or orations, if the greater part were unable
to read aloud and understand a new page of or-
dinary prose, or if the reciters of Hamlet’s
soliloquy had never heard of the Sonnets and had
no general knowledge of literature? The end of
a musical education should not be the static ability
to sing or play a taught repertoire, but the dynam-
ic development, on a sound and broad foundation,
of the power to use the tools and materials of
music for the enrichment of the pUpil’s fUrther
musical life.

At present, musical education is, on the whole,
perhaps better in the public than in the private
schools, which are apparently held back more by
tradition. The weakest spot is in the secondary
schools, where the excellent training from the pri-
mary grades is lost because no time can be al—
lowed for a subject which receives no college en—
trance credit. This cannot be remedied until the
college authorities are convinced that an applicant
who is able to play a four-voice fugue at sight on
the piano, or to read intelligently a tenor part in a
vocal quartette, evinces at least as much mental
power and application as one who is able to trans—
late 6r per cent of a page of Caesar, or to solve
the required percentage of problems in plane
geometry. In its potentiality for‘ cultural devel-
opment in modern life, which accomplishment
would appear to offer the greater promise?

At this very moment we are on the threshold
of an era which promises a veritable musical ren-
aissance, provided only we make intelligent use
of that part of our new—found leisure which we
devote to the fine arts. If we employ this leisure
as did the Romans after Czesar—lookers-on at
amusements provided by others—we shall have

(Continued on page 211)

Planning SummerPlayground Programs

xv consideration of the
A summer playground pro-

gram must be based on
the assumption that three fac-
tors are available—the play-
ground, the play leader and
the children. It is obvious that
each of these factors must be
considered in preparing the
program. Since there is a great difference be-
tween leaders, playgrounds and children in differ-
ent communities, no standardized program can be
prepared which will be suitable for every local
situation. In this statement, however, some of the
important factors are discussed and several sug-
gested programs are presented.

Two essentials to the successful playground
are (I) an intelligently prepared and well-bal-
anced program of activities for the summer, and
(2) an effective and wise administration of this
program. _

The necessity of careful planning before the
playground Opens is obvious. Such planning in-
volves arranging a schedule of hours during which
the playground will be open under-leadership. It
also includes a decision as to the hours each leader
will be on duty. A most important feature is the
daily schedule of activities which enables children
and parents to know the hours at which special
activities will be carried on. Frequently activities
are not conducted each day but are scheduled one
or more times per week. This necessitates not
only a daily but also a weekly program. Further-
more, certain types of activities, especially feature
events, are sometimes carried on only during one
particular week. The preparation of a pr0gram,
by weeks, for the entire summer is therefore es-
sential. Only as these three types of programs-
daily, weekly, summerware worked out in ad-
vance is it possible to make sure that the play-
ground will serve the various play needs and in-
terests of boys and girls of different ages.

There are two important phases of playground
program administration. One relates to the carry-
ing out of the projects, the organizing of the

174

 

Courtesy Safety Magatine

groups, the conducting of the
activities prescribed in the pro-
gram and close adherence to the
time schedule. Unless play-
ground workers perform these
duties, the program has little
value. On the other hand, the
playground is not like the school
where classes must start and
stop precisely at the time scheduled and where a
prescribed curriculum must be covered. Children
come to the playground and engage in its activities
through choice. Compulsion has no place in the
playground activities. In arranging periods the
length of time which the various activities are
likely to require should be taken into account, but
if a group requires more time than is scheduled
to complete a project or a game, it should be per-
mitted to continue the activity. The same princi-
ples apply in the case of the special events or
weekly features. If, as the summer advances,
experience indicates that certain features should
be omitted or more or less time be devoted to
them, the schedule should be revised accordingly.
In other words there should be flexibility within
a planned program.

Playground Activities

Before a person can intelligently plan a play-
ground program, he must have a knowledge ot
the great variety of activities which are suitable
for use on the playground. He must also know
how these activities are organized and can be made
to fit into the playground pr0gram. Therefore,
before discussing methods or principles of pro-
gram planning, consideration will be given to the
activities on which programs are built.

The types of activity which can be carried on
successfully on the Summer playground are limit-
less. The leader who is resourceful can adapt old
forms of play and devise new ones. The follow-
ing lists of activities and features are not intended
to be comprehensive but they include a majority
of those which are most popular and widely used.
They should be helpful in outlining the possibili-

PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS 175

ties in the play program and in calling the atten-
tion of leaders to activities which otherwise might
be overlooked. They are classified according to
types and also on the basis of their organization
and use in the playground program.

Routine Activities

There are several kinds of play which have
come to be recognized as having a regular place
on the playground program. N o playground may
be considered as having a well-balanced program
unless several of these types of play have a place
upon it. Naturally many of these types comprise
a great variety of activities, some of which will be
listed in detail later, and from which selections

Track and field meet
Play days .
Athletic badge tests
Baby show

Model boat regatta
Storytelling festival
Folk dancing festival
lantern parades
Doll show

Baseball field day
Junior elections
Circus

Music festival
Flower show

Hobby show
Athletic carnival
Progressive game‘party
Nationality nights

Playground demonstration
Mother and Daughter Party
Father and Son Party
Camera hikes

Handcraft exhibition

Kite day

Model airplane day

Band concerts

Nature treasure hunt
Nature exhibit

Wiener roasts
Presentation of awards
Newsboys day

Novelty track meet

Camp tire program
Square dance festival
Radio programs

Continuous, Self-Directed Actim’ties
Most playground schedules such as the sug—

will be made by the leader.

Low organized games

Apparatus play
Wading pool play
Sandcraft

Team games

Track and field events
Singing games
Individual games and

athletic events
Flag raising ceremony
Clu=b meetings
Badge test events
Story dramatization

Storytelling

Mass games

Relays

Quiet games
Folk dancing

Handcraft Coaching in games, stunts
Stunts and special activities
Nature Practice for league games
Dramatics and contests

Music Rehearsal for demonstra-

Shower .hat'hs tions, circus, pageants, etc.

S [racial Events

In contrast with the preceding list there is pre-
sented here a list of the special events which are
held from time to time and which supplement
the regular routine activities. A limited number
of these features add special interest to the pro-
gram, they attract parents and others to the play-
ground and they also provide a special incentive
for some of the routine activities. Certain children
to whom the day-by-day’projects have no appeal
are drawn to the playground by a special event
involving an activity in which they have a partic-
ular interest. These events also afford an excellent
publicity medium and may be used to interpret
to the public the value and service of the play-
ground.

Picnics Junior Olympics"

Trips to parks, zoo, indus- Block parties
try or historical places Treasure hunt

Trips to beach or pool for Block or playground dance
swimming Movies

One day camps Patriotic celebrations

Mardi gras parade Doll fashion show

Pageants Hikcs
Rodeo Nature hikes
Pet show Puppet show

Doll buggy parade Drama festival
On wheels meet and Operettas
parade Minstrel show

Water carnival or pageant Stunt night

gested daily playground programs which appear
in this statement list only the routine events or
special features which are emphasized or which
receive special attention from the leaders at the
hours indicated. On the playground which is well
provided with facilities and supplies there are
many activities in which children are taking part
either continuously or intermittently each day
without direct guidance from the playground
workers. Many of them involve individual com-
p'etition, others are informal types of individual
play and a few include group activity. Frequently
they are used as a basis for special tournaments
or events but they are likely to be engaged in at
any time. With occasional guidance from the
leaders and with adequate equipment, these activ-
ities engage the interest of large numbers of chil—
dren. The following list comprises some of the
common self-directing activities.

Marble golf Block building Bean bag games

O’Leary Tennis Marbles

Lariat Horseshoes Quoits

Roller skating Handball Jumping

Tennis Paddle tennis Tether ball
Hop scotch golf Table tennis Rope jumping
Hop scotch Pogo stick Tops

Stilts Dart throwing Mumblety-peg
Doll play Quiet Games: Clock golf

Box 'hockey Chess Deck tennis
Jackstones Checkers Croquet

Ring toss Parchesi H001) rolling
Badminton Camelot Reading
Shufilebbard Lotto Diabolo
Apparatus play Dominoes Baseball pitching
\Vading Etc. Informal games
Sand play Basketball goal Kite flying

shooting

Playground Clubs

The extent to which playground activities are

organized on the club basis varies widely. There
are few playgrounds, however, which do not have

one or more children’s organizations. Sometimes

176 PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS

they comprise the persons interested in an activity
such as dramatics or nature study; often they are
a group selected to help with some phase of the
playground service, such as a safety club. Many
additions could be made to the following list:

Garden Storytelling Playground
Nature Ukulele Council
Knot Hole Harmonica. First Aid
Junior Police Leaders Hiking
Woodcraft Music Little Mothers
Safety Hobby Stamp

Model Aircraft Glee Poster
Sewing Drama Travel
Camera Newspaper

Special l V eeks

As previously pointed out, in many cities sum-
mer playground programs are planned around a
special idea or feature each week. Where this is
done, as many parts of the program as possible
are related to the theme for the week. There is
danger of subordinating the essential play pro-
gram where over-emphasis is laid on special weeks,
but the plan has considerable merit if carried out
with judgment and moderation. Some of the
themes adapted for special weeks are:

Safety Handcraft Mother and
Mothers and Dads Baseball Daughter
Drama Folk Dancing Pageant

Music Health Festival
l’atriotie Hobby Games

Athletic (sports) ln the Air Hon‘e Play
Girls Doll l eaders

Boys Garden Nature

Vehicle Father and Son Election

Circus Beautification Learn to Swim

Some V alttablc Activities

Games of various sorts, folk dances and some
of the other types of playground activities are too
numerous to mention here and lists and descrip-
tions of them are available from many sources.
The following are lists of some of the valuable
but—in many conmnmities—less widely known
activities. These lists, especially arts and crafts,
could be enlarged indefinitely.

EM: and Craft: Celophane craft

Leather craft Crayonexing

Jewelry making Making scrap books

Wood working — airplanes. Dyeing and coloring
boats, kites, toys, lanterns Sand craft

Modeling Paper craft

l'ainting llead wOrk

“'eaving Cardboard construction
llasketry Cement craft
Needlework Toy making

Sketching Drama Activities
Metal work Storytelling

Dramatization of stories
Simple dramatization
Oneaact plays

Carving—soap. wood
Painting and drawing .
Paper folding and cutting

Poster making Festivals
Printing Pageants
Wmlcra ft Puppetry

Dramatic stunts
Peep shows

String quartets or
Stage craft

Music Activities Flowers

Vocal Stones
Action songs Shells
Singing games Leaves
Community singing Insects
Informal singing groups Nests
Choruses Identification
Glee clubs Birds

Quartettes (barber shop) Trees

\Vhistling groups Flowers
lnstrumental lnsects
Bugle corps Leaves

Nature games

Nature hikes

Playground zoo or
aquarium

Gardening

Playground beautification

Harmonica bands
Ukulele orchestras
Rhythm bands
Ocarina choirs

Fife and drum corps
,Cigar box fiddlers

Kazoo bands Miniature gardens
Orchestras Organised Teams and
String quartets or Leagues
ensembles Baseball
Saxaphonc quartets Playground baseball
Mandolin and guitar Volley ball
groups Basketball
Performances Soccer
Music festivals Captain hall
Band concerts Dodge ball
Orchestral concerts Long ball
Cantatas Newcomb
Operettas Hit pin baseball

Incidental music at pa- Nine court basketball

geants, festivals, etc. Schlag hall
Radio concerts Net ball
Nature Activities Field hall
Making collections Hockey

Contests and Tournaments

Some of the activities in the preceding lists
lend themselves readily to organization on the
contest or tournament basis or lead up naturally
to such events. The activities should be so car-
ried on as to emphasize the joy of participation
but the tournament often adds zest to the activity.
It also provides a series of events many of which
make only slight demands on the time and atten-
tion of the workers. A partial list of these activi-
ties follows:

Marble golf Archery Rope jumping
O'Leary Box hockey Top spinning
Lariat Jack knife golf One-act play
Pushmobile Jacks Swimming badge
Roller skating Sing ttpss tests

Bicycle tean 1g

Tennis Glider {gurglilcty lgcg
Swimming Balloon ‘ mg n if]?
Diving Pogo sttck omits} g
Poster , Diabolo Clock “0”
Model aircraft Horseshoes Deck tennis
Doll dressing Birdhouse Cm u“
Model boat sailing building Botgnical

H0p scotch golf

I [op scotch
Low organized

Tree identifica-

tion
Paddle tennis

Musical jam-
boree

game Table tennis Tum-bling
Stuffed doll Badminton Dominoes
Stilt Shumelnard Boxing
Baseball pitching Checkers \k'restling.
Sand modeling Chess Hoop rolhn_g
Soap modeling Handball Dart throwing

Apparatm
Soap bubble

Tether ball
Goal shmting

Music
Camelot

PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS 177

F actors. Influencing Program Planning
In planning a summer playground program it
is necessary to consider several factors. Among
them are:

Size and Development of the Playground. Play-
ground activities require facilities, game courts,
apparatus, or open space. Knowledge of the area
and of its special features is essential to making
a program. In general, however, it is assumed
that every playground should have some appar-
atus, courts for several types of games, a sheltered
area either indoors or outdoors for storytelling,
handcraft and quiet games and an open area for
a variety of play activities.

Ages of Children to Be Served. Some play-
grounds, especially very small areas, are reserved
for the play of children up to 10 years of age.
Often no special activities are planned for chil—
dren of pre—school age but sometimes this group
receives special attention. Most playgrounds,
however, are intended primarily to serve boys and
girls from 5 to 15 years old. If it is found, as is
often the case, that small children come in largest
numbers in the morning and'older boys and girls
in the late afternoon, events appealing to these
age grorlps should be arranged accordingly.

Number of Children to Be Served. Where
large numbers of children are to be cared for by
one or two leaders, less emphasis can be laid upon
small group activities or projects which require
special instruction of a limited number of chil—
dren. Some of the most valuable activities—
music, drama, arts and crafts, nature study—can
be carried on to advantage only with small groups.
This makes it difhcult to provide them where lead-
ership is limited or
where large numbers
of children are to be
served.

Hours Playground ls
Open. Each commu-

nity m u st decide the

All kinds of handcraft

flourish in the play-
ground program. Here
are two boys from the
playgrounds of Read-
ing, Pa., tanning the
hides to be used in '
making tom-toms for
their Indian program.

 

hours the playground is to be open under leader-
ship before a daily schedule can be arranged. As
a rule the playground should be open during the
hours when the largest number of children can
attend unless leadership is available for the entire
day. In most places the afternoon and evenings
are the periods when most children come to the
playground. In the South, due to the heat, the
playground is often closed during the afternoon.
The longer the hours the more variety in the pro-
gram is usually possible and desirable.

Length of Playground Season. Several types
of playground projects involve long preparation.
If the season is long, it is possible to include such
projects whereas if it is open only a few weeks
the leaders may not be justified in using them.
Naturally fewer feature events, tournaments and
special activities can be carried on the shorter the
playground season. The daily program is not
essentially affected, however, by the number of
weeks the playground is open.

Number of Workers. One of the most impor-
tant factors influencing program planning is the
number of workers, which is also related to the
daily playground hours. One leader can care for
only a limited number of children at one time
and in a few different activities. Where a play-
ground has only one worker, the program is likely
to be restricted and comparatively little time can
be given by the worker to small groups requiring
special guidance or instruction. The use of junior
leaders and adult volunteers, 'however, enables the
leader to carry on a more varied program. When
two or more workers are present on a playground
a wider range of activities and more guidance in

them are possible. .
Qualifications of Lead-
ers. The training and
experience of the work-
ers largely determine
the activities which are
carried on. A leader
who is competent in
music, drama, hand-
craft, nature study or
' some form of physical
activity is likely to fea-
ture this activity. On
the other hand, few per-
sons who have not re—
ceived special training
in these activities are

178 PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS

likely to devote much attention to
them on the playground. A qual-
if‘ication which is important in
program planning is the ability to
enlist and supervise effectively
child or volunteer leadership. Be-
cause women leaders are as a rule
better suited to conduct small chil-
dren's and girls’ activities and men,
on the other hand, can best direct
older boys' activities, it is desirable
that every playground have at least
one man and one woman leader.

Relation to Other Playgrounds.

In small communities where there

is only one playground, there are likely to be few
if any contacts with other playgrounds during
the season. The program is planned entirely
around the individual playground. In larger cities,
however, its program is often influenced by the
schedules of other centers. Inter-playground
events are held and much time is devoted to prep-
arations for them. \Vhere special supervisors are
employed, the hours of their visits to the play-
grounds are arranged by the central office. A
definite number and types of activities to be car-
ried on by each individual playground are some—
times specified by the managing authority.

Some Suggestions for Planning Programs

A wisely planned program carried on under
competent leadership is certain to result in a large
number of children being present on the play-
ground and engaged in a variety of activities.
Since boys and girls varying widely in ages and
interests are usually present, several activities
should be going on simultaneously. For this reason
most programs provide three or four different
activities each period. Since there are seldom
more than two leaders on a playground at any one
time, this means that all the activities cannot be
supervised continuously. Therefore, it is wise to
schedule for each period one or two which are
more or less self-directing or which can be con-
ducted by junior leaders and one or two other
activities which require guidance of the paid
workers. The extent to which the variOus age
groups, boys and girls, and the various types of
activities receive a fair share of the leaders’ time
and attention, effects the drawing power of the
playground.

Indirect Leadership.
Any methods or activities which supplement

 

. The ever popular sand box—still
an essential on every playground

the influence of the paid workers as exerted
through direct leadership of groups and activities,
should be fully utilized. One such method is the
selection, training and use of volunteers and jun-
ior leaders whose services make it possible to
increase the number of activities which can be
carried on at one time. Another means of en—
larging the service of the playground is to en-
courage participation in the many individual or
small group activities which are more or less self—
directing and which include some of the most pop-
ular games and sports. \Vhere this is done, large
numbers of children can be actively engaged with-
out any direct supervision. One means of in-
creasing this type of activity is by arranging con-
tests or tournaments. There are also certain types
of activity such as play on the apparatus, in the
wading pool and sand boxes which are almost con—
tinuous and which require only occasional super—
vision. Where through occasional suggestions,
instruction and organization, participation in these
various. activities is encouraged, several activities
are engaged in simultaneously even when only one
paid worker is present.

Common ii finale“.

There are two common mistakes in program
planning. One is to provide so few events and
activities that many children find little or nothing
to attract them or to retain their interest. Such
faulty planning sometimes results from inadequate
preparation on the part of the leaders. The person
trained only in physical activities, for example,
may neglect all other types, a musician may over—
emphasize music or a kindergartner is likely to

PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS 179

give major consideration to the younger children’s
activities. Failure to arrange special events and
features from time to time during the summer is
another aspect of the same problem. Programs
planned by untrained, inexperienced or lazy work-
ers are likely to be limited and lacking in variety.
At the other extreme is the program which is
so full and varied and with so many featured
events that the playground schedule is crowded
and pressure is exerted on both children and play
leaders to carry it out. As a rule children enjoy
participating wholeheartedly in a few activities.
On playgrounds, especially those having a rela-
tively small attendance, too many special features
should not be scheduled. Otherwise there is a
tendency to urge children to participate in order
to make a good showing or to “put over” the vari-
ous features successfully. There is also a danger
that leaders will require children to work on pro-
jects much longer than they enjoy doing in order
to complete them on scheduled time. On the other
hand, once the special event has taken place the
children may be'urged to start preparing for the
next one whereas they may prefer to continue
with the activity. The happy medium is attained
when there is sufficient variety in the regular
activities to meet the needs and interests of each
child and enough special events to challenge the
interest and co-operation of the entire group.

Inter—Piaygromzd Activities.

The place which should be given to inter-play-
ground contests and events is_a question which
must be decided in preparing a program in a city
where there are several playgrounds. It is not a
problem in the small community with a single
playground, although if there is a playground in
a neighboring community one or more occasions
may be arranged during the summer for groups
from both grounds to join in activities. Competi-
tion b e t w e e n play-
grounds is common in

ground program, but other than adding a series
of city—wide events, usually carried on at a cen-
tral playground, it' does not materially affect the
individual playground program.

The effect of inter-playground competition is
more likely to be felt in the case of team games.
Instead of attempting to organize several teams
on the individual playground, the director is likely
to select a single team in each sport. Where this
is done fewer games are likely to be played and
fewer boys and girls drawn into the activity.
Many recreation leaders believe that emphasis
should be laid on intra-playground activities, with
perhaps short city-wide championship series in
which the winning team from each playground
participates. Inter-playground team competition
also influences the program in that if workers ac-
company teams on trips to other grounds, the
other children are deprived of their services dur-
ing these periods. Consequently fewer activities
requiring guidance can be carried on. The parti-
cipation of groups from the playgrounds in a city-
wide feature such as a circus or festival, unless
wisely planned, is also likely to result in undue
emphasis and attention given to the limited groups
taking part with corresponding neglect of the
other parts of the playground program.

Evening Activities.

The evening use of playgrounds for activities
under leadership has become quite common dur-
ing the last few years. Some grounds are now
lighted for night use although special courts for
tennis, handball, horseshoes and other games are
more frequently equipped in this way than are
children’s play areas.

In many neighborhoods the child attendance at
the playground is as large dUring the evening as at
any other time of day. In addition many yOUng
people and adults are likely to be present, the
number depending
upon the size of the

both team and individ-
ual events. Frequently
tournaments are held
on each playground af-
ter which the respective
winners compete in a
district or city-Wide
tournament. This tends
somewhat to subordin-
ate the local to the city-
wide event on the play-

Some Inexpensive Publications for the
Playground Worker

Conduct of Playgrounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3: .25
Handcraft (Patterns and directions for
making toys and articles) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.50
88 Successful Play Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . .60
What We Did on a Summer Playground. . .20
Games and Play for School Morale . . . . . . .25
Recreative Athletics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00
Suggestions for an Amateur Circus . . . . . . .25
Sand Modeling Manual . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20

playground an d the
suitable facilities it af-
fords.

In spite of the large
e v e n i n g attendance
comprising persons of
a wide age range the
staff assigned for eve-
ning duty is sometimes
smaller than during the
day. Consequently few

180 PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS

organized activities are usually provided for chil-
dren. They are encouraged to play on the ap-
paratus and in the sand boxes, and to engage in
individual contests and low organized games,
started with the help of the leader. Certainly it
is not possible during the short evening period to
devote time to small group activities requiring the
continuous direction or help of the worker.

Two types of organized activity, however, fea-
ture evening playground programs. One consists
of the varied adult activities which are started
with the help of the worker but which are carried
on largely by the groups themselves. They include
leagues in baseball, volley ball, playground base-
ball and other games; tournaments in horseshoes,
handball, roque, ping pong and other games; clubs
in special activities like checkers, hiking or choral
singing and classes in swimming, tennis or arch-
ery. The number of such groups which can be
carried on depends much upon the number and
qualifications of the paid leaders and their ability
to enlist the active interest and co-operation of
competent volunteers. The other feature of eve-
ning programs is the special program, often desig-
nated as community nights, designed to attract a
large number of people to the playground. Such
programs, often held bi-weekly, should provide
opportunities for participation by the entire group
attending them as well as for demonstrating vari-
ous activities which both children and adults en-

gage in on the playground.

Preparing for the Program.

A few specific suggestions for the preparation
of playground programs follow:

1. Provide a wide range of activitics.of different types
-—-physica1, manual, rhythmic, musical, dramatic. etc.

2. Include activities for boys and girls of various ages.

3. Divide the leaders' time fairly between different age
groups. boys and girls and between various types of
activities.

4. Alternate strenuous with quiet activities; team games
with individual play, etc.

5. Sehcdulc special activities at a time most convenient
for thc group to be scrved.

6. Arrangc periods so that if a project or. activity is not
completed op schedule time, it be carried ovcr with-
out intcrfcring with the program.

Provide times when no specific activity is scheduled.
Plan a special feature to take place each week to ten
days.

. Correlate the various playground activities with the
special feature, as far as possible.

10. Encourage informal self-organized activity, by giving
it a placc on the program.

11. Include activities which involve co-operation as well
as thosc which feature competition.

vapor:

12. Allow the individual playground leader some free-
dom in the choice of activities.

13. Make programs progressive, pointing to climax at
end of season.

14. Feature activities of the play day type with large
members participating rather than events in which
Only the playground champions participate.

13. Give the children opportunities to make suggestions
as to the program.

16. Revise your program if certain features do not prove
satisfactory or if conditions indicate changes to be
desirable.

17. Keep a balance between the special events and the
regular routine activities.

18. Avoid any tendcncy to bribe or force children to
take part In an activity.

19. Emphasize Opportunities for all to participate rather
than the development of champions.

Some Typical Programs

As previously pointed out, there are three as-
pects of planning the summer playground pro-
gram, namely, arranging daily, weekly and sum-
mer schedules. The suggested outlines which fol-
low illustrate the method which may be followed
in preparing such schedules. The accompanying
comments will be helpful to leaders in interpret-
ing these programs and in preparing others for
their own playgrounds.

No specific rules can be laid down as to the
scheduling of the various activties. The prevailing
conditions, traditions and habits of the people in
the neighborhood must be taken into account. In
certain neighborhoods many of the older children
must leave the playground by 4 o’clock in the
afternoon in order to help prepare the evening
meal or to deliver papers. In others few small
children are present during the early afternoon
periods because of en forced rest periods at home.
At some playgrounds special events will be at-
tended by many parents if they start at 3 :15, for
example, whereas few parents could be present at
2 :30. \Vhere Monday attendance is light because
children help at home with the laundry, major
events should not be scheduled on that day. Wise
program planning takes advantage of these facts
and provides for activities at the times when the
children interested can take advantage of them.

The Daily Program.

The playground day often starts with the flag
raising, sometimes accompanied by community
singing and announcements, after which there is
a period (levoted primarily to preparing the
grounds for the day’s activities. Apparatth and
equipment are set up and inspected, courts are
prepared for use and preparations made for the
morning's play activities. Sometimes courts and

PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS 181

other activities are assigned to groups at this
time for use during the morning. The children
often assist the leaders with this part of the pro-
gram. If there is a caretaker on the ground
much of this work is done before the leader ar-
rives and before the ground is officially opened
for play.

The mid-morning hours are usually well suited
for strenuous activity. The attendance is often
less than at the other periods so few special or
feature events are held in the morning. Since
there are likely to be many of the younger chil-
dren present, they receive considerable attention.
The period immediately preceding the lunch hour
is suitable for quiet games and activities such as
handcraft and storytelling. "

It is generally advisable, if possible, to have one
worker present on the playground from the time
it opens in the morning till closing time at night.
Activities are seldom scheduled, however, during
the lunch hour, except for an occasional picnic.
The leader on duty at this time can prepare for
special afternoon events or help individuals with
special play projects.

The early afternoon hours may be devoted pri-
marily to fairly quiet activities although informal
team games and other strenuous individual activi—
ties attract many children. This is often a good
time of day for some of the special group activi-
ties such as dramatics, music, or nature study.
The league games, special tournaments, and fea—
ture events are usually scheduled for the middle
of the afternoon when the attendance is largest
and when many friends and parents are likely to
be present. The latter part of the afternoon is
a good time for meetings of clubs, committees
or junior leaders’corps. Activities such as dra-
matics, music or handcraft are sometimes carried
011 at this time. League games for employed
young people are frequently played at the end of
the afternoon.

The hours from 6:30 or 7:00 till dark are fre—

quently the busiest of the entire day. The pro-.
gram depends a great deal on whether more than ‘

one leader is present and also on the extent to
which the playground attracts and serves young
people and adults. If only one leader is employed
during the evening his entire time is likely to be
required for looking after the interests of the
various groups—keeping activities going and help-
ing here and there as conditions require. If there
are two leaders, however, one of them can give
his entire attention to the organization and pro-

motion of activities. It is desirable that at least
every two weeks there be a special evening pro-
gram which will attract a large attendance and in
which many can participate. ‘

Two suggested daily programs follow. One is
for a playground having two leaders—one man
and one woman. The other is for a playground
where three leaders are employed—one man and
two women. Each playground is open morning,
afternoon and evening. In the case of the former,
one worker is on the ground during the morning
and evening and two during the afternoon; on
the latter, two workers are on duty each session.

Practically the same activities are suggested for
the two playgrounds. During the morning hours,
however, on the playground where only one leader
is present, fewer activities requiring the direct
guidance of a leader can be carried on than on the
other playground, or else they must be offered
fewer times per week. Moreover, since the leader
must give general supervision to the entire play-
ground he cannot give his undivided attention to
any of the special activities. He must rely more
on assistance from .junior leaders or volunteers.
Informal, self—organized group play will likely be
more in evidence on this playground. Since under
both plans two workers are present in the after-
noon, the pr0grams differ but slightly. During
the evening a more highly organized and varied
program is possible where two leaders are on
duty. _

It will be noted that at certain times workers
help get activities started and then turn their at-
tention to other groups. For example, each day
from II to 11:30 a worker devotes her attention
to a group in handcraft. The craft activity con—
tinues until noon but by II :30 the group can get
along without the leader’s assistance, so during
the period from II :30 to 12:00 she leads another
group in some other activity. Likewise one of the
leaders helps organize team games from 2:00 to
2:30 after which he can give his attention to some
other,part of the playground. In the meantime
the team games continue. '

The asterisks (*) in the following programs
indicate the activities to which the workers give
more or less direct and continuous supervision.
It will be noted that during several periods more
than two activities are so indicated. In such cases,
all these activities are not conducted under lead-
ership each day. Some of them are carried on
only once or twice a week. Reference to the sug-
gested weekly schedule for a playground with the

PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS

182

uncountmco—cuv can mEEuoE
coofonzumu: 362$... .23?“ can 298a munch

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.3; 3:33 33.5% .383 ES. EESEH «E95 33% mamas“? .mqum «um—E .moEmu 33:58-:3 cam—a magnum? SS; 93m 24m lcmuo
.38% Eng .28 316a .8 039.:—
was?» .3 wow: on .92: 329.935 .mccsohmaga .3 c2333 9—8;“. 9:... 3:33 cssohwama 63—00 .5035 .313— oco $32.3 3.30:8 07. on”... nlmtm
38% 350 .mooszEou can mas—u vcsohu 833883 9:...
:3:— mo mmczuuz .mcmucmc fob .mumaEEQ mas—u _E:o._u.3_._ mo 3:232 .389.“ 830
.m::_3bo.m .3533 38% ac cough—Sou .mcmucac £0...“ .323..th .mcmzurtoa Mai x3 38m .3an 330 Sum '23.
ill-Iii I'll
:Euucam
2.3.6 mEEoo .22 c.2353; .30 .83 3:3
43233 $555.33 E 82.5 usual 12:2: .255 mum—:3 .5... $32383 $29983 35.8 3.8% 9.239; .5 3
$522 can 3388. £9.23 .3533 :23am 39.35% EUR: .6 258325“ .BmquU tag mcmxah. .883 mammcmm :33 33.5.54. 2:. 1|me N
.23.:3 .6 2.3.5 38% .22 533389 "cow—S 3:353“ 231 no: avg—53:8 .333.“ 38% 07. min lemum
'IllilllllllllIlIIII-III!
.3533 59:3: 5* so:
-3555 .353 33% k: .6 38mm 2&3. mus—am EEO 3336a .33 98"“
.22 8:995 235% Emu“ ho comunumcamho .23 Mon scam can... Sum
llllll'lllllllllllliil‘llil
35.5 “Eu—Ea 3:... 385m 3.33:5.

38% 95.5 35.85 395.52“ 332 .33 matrix?“ .332. .muEam 95.5 ._ mcwua Dog 98 mum—3900a 8mm low"—
.2835 c.2993: no 26:50 .385. 330 .239. but? .8 mumcuma 3:33qu .253 c8533 .2: 3333 338— Eamnlbgzua “yo—swosum 91. on”. Icon“...—
IEILEE: F

._ .89 6:53 .38“ «3:5 .130 .35: .23“ omvam 36:3 38—mlmaa non 3am ._ McEBme sum—low" :
38% 350 305.53 0.5:...2 .zahuvcnm mus—mm «£30 .3233," 9532 133983 MESS: zoo—mlaaa non ccnm cm. 2'8;—
dzémgu ccsohmbwa "5:3 8:35..“ ".33 8.; "3.30:8 .228.“ 33% 0A ooh 2.13.6—
I|||ll|ll||lllllllnlll|lll|..[l.|.r - .
RE magnum/x him mag—REA...
mus—am 955 can Emu“ 2.4585 «38% coumcnmho >54 .38& 93?? van 95.5 aqua—I85—

 

 

 

‘Illulllllll|||||l|llll||l|ll|l.
can—a mcmcuoE 3.. 320..“ mama

.camho "2:258:35 “Esme; “mom—.53 oEmm mat—EEmMc "358 mthaE "3:505 can magnum.“ $59035 358933 :5 Magoo .mEmzu warm Sue—'85
2 :2 2+6 .2... 28m _ .25 2 2 a 5:326 _ m. .52... 3.2.6
W.

.wcmcgu 3:" .5053? 5:: 2: v5" foo—Coca and 9:59: .96 so on
:5 :ch.$ up: :2: @2553 mm : .5263 use was :9: usolvuhoEEu wcmun «Luvs— o.5 ho £25 2: :o cuwcnta mm EEuoa agape—B. 2F

wE<~wOO~wm QZDO¢O>¢AQ mmzzbm V‘HHdQ thmeODw

.EuEuEHm m5. E 8:23 333% .33.: be
m: a .mu_:>:un 368558 mzozcccou go but? :63 a. E vownmco “5 53 233:? m5":— >.a_u 8:5 2: 50:96:: :2: 53030.. 3 8: 3:2:
5 5%.."2 SEE S 38:30.» go .638th of Etc: 98 .5 583:? 9.: o. :3 :2: 9:" Bucca— 2: .3 .93, his: 52% .282: oh" .mozomEoE
5:33“. 2: .3 co tombs was cur—Sm v.8 333:8" .550 SE. .mEEwoa 3:": 33: Ho .355 a E Eu: :3, Boy—EB .0 .8355: wcmwcoamotog

I}
E

183

.1. mcozmbmcoEuw ES 353th woofoanEc
363m .883” Emu“ van. 2263me F6585
3—33 wan «38a mssom how 85mg“ Ham—EH .muEmw 330 .355 38% @3335 363% wuumcmmpo :3 ES. 333an so REE 3pm 85 Ioch

 

 

 

352% E3: Sm 3—3:“ 30 «30% muse» an cum: 950%me .3585 .8me ecolbmzug waive;an oz 86 Ion.” m
fill. 1|
. 355%me so as View? "mum—n53 950%me wan 33.635 25% MESS—cu omnm nlmtm

 

 

 

* 35.5 Emma
bmcsEEoU .Sm COwEmaEm .muutmEEOu van
was? mo @23qu *mubzmum 38% mo cozy—a $33888 wan. mas—u mo $23qu 3.8% E50
.800 .muEmm “£50 * mumumEth *mEzutCBm 85mm 3sz *mumumEEQ *mcmzutfoum RnEm “non. Ucmm 2mm limiv

 

 

3:96 333 Sm some
-mpmaupm .ummpuwcmm *muEmw ustuA *mmcm 38mm yummy“ McEuuma .zmbwcmm 3:96 38mm MOEBNB 3O 5
Lao “O 358353 .3838 £3553 360mm ._. 33:33 38% ho 3583253 33350 tan wcmxmh .muEmw mammcmm cam—Q mBEEEx‘. mtv lmvum

335:8 was 3:96 38% gm Cossack“ ":53 82%:qu “mm—a we; "we—:BLUm 5333. 360mm OZ . mvum Iomum

 

 

 

 

*355 83
$3 5 360mm Sm COmemhmaEm .muEmw 3&8— 355 333. .Sm 85333.» 8.5% 380
Sm uuzumhm *muEmw Emu“ mo 90331390 35332“ Ana uuhm .883” E50 mumumzuum K83 8km ENE Mon wamm omum Iooum

 

 

355m cam—Em 35 352% EsvgécH ENE 3:33.?“ ~83 mamhaaxx . .
. * 3923 van. 852% «5.20 ._. mam—E PB 85% 95.6. *mcmuum 30% van McEBEBm oo.m Iom;

 

.muEmm «ems: “333 $335 ho amumcumaz wmcommmuuo 353.3 $38— 35 “53:2” 3—5358 OZ on; locumH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS

35:»: .- muEmm «£50 *mE—Eumhoum OOHNHIOmH:
* . . . | |
On 8:32 *ummEz immbwcmm ._. .Bu .3253 *muwmiuum 3:32 .muEmm $30 .30 . MOE—mun #35
.355 “m3 umcmm 9:me *mcchmv 50m 33:: .355 “m3 umwmm *ummsE 1383mm 3E won wcmm 242's”:
dsému—u 950%me "5&3 uusmwgtm "mm—a 33 "333:8 333%.. 58% OZ cc” :nlmvue
358353 ES 33 Mon wcmm
333:8 .5“ 338cm * 88mm :83 van. nacho Kan—a 33336. *muEmm “gunman.th BOA REE usumpmaax“ ._. muEmm mezmm van @5030 mvnglooug

 

SEA MmmEoE “om 352m Mcmum
-ammho “mucuEuussozcm mczmoa “3299; 08mm wcmsnmbmmc M338 @3me “3:303 wsm usumhmaam wcmuuuamcm 358353 30 mcmtuo .mcmmmmc warm conglomao

 

 

a #50 3U N38 93%. .32." NM 2 m. 23339 _ m. 335 :33qu

 

 

$2165 can moor—Sim 52.: 2: van @3295 can mat—.5:— £050 2t .5858: ES mE:._o..: big no on E?
Swan use 32.: 353.3” 3 Z .soEoB 95 3:“ :3: ucolvumoEEu wamun 3362 8:: mo 3me 2: so wuwzwtm mm EEmoE 9.35:3 ugh

PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS

184

                                

   

  

   
 

Amy—.53 m. 59am:

 

 

   
             
   

 

 

 

    
      

 

 

   
        

 

 

 

 

 

2.32 52:55.0 cmuw lcnno
ms..qu :5." 5.553352 ..=.u .35.. um
2:05 355.. 3.3552 3.5552 9.2.3.955
. . .555 o. 3:25 o. u: u . o . . n u
.233? 5.95m . .. v= .. . c v.. L . E... v.. n. .I. 5.23.. dc... m. m lm. ..
Eur). 355850.... 23:50 3.89.

35mm 2&3. .5. 5.3.5.55 3E3. gamma. 5 £5... 5585.55... 2;. Imwnm

.38.; n 5 N .35.,an

$5.5 15555...-35.

3.255.. 3.5% .09. u:.EE.3m S at...
.5. 5..thth 8.... .5555... Sam lgum

5.8." .5: van 5:5 to; .5.“
0.3.... 3.2.3.205 35."... 55.5 uE:3...5.m 35mm 9:20 8:... '3:
0.5.». on... '83..
ill-[I'll]! + I ll:
So .323... .33... 52.3555 .85 .323... .33... 82.35.” 8:52 .8... .35.: .33... 553.05% Stile”:
:26 zen—:5. 3:13”:
38am 5%.? 85am 38mm 38%. 38% 86.4
.5“ 5:20 53.550 Boy. Emma... .Em 55.5 .553:me5 .50.. 5.5.... .5.” 55.5 5.52: tam mieloono.
3.555% 335...»... _ 5.925: 35.8235 5.2.3.... 9.5.5:. . 2.5:

 
 

 

 

ca: 2.0 .5“ ~5an ocOleMMMOB 03H. 59:5 QZDOmO>¢Am MMEEDw MOM 243.00%“. Mr‘HMmma thmeODw

.52..
5.? 5.55:8 5. 3:53 2. 25...». .Em 3.52.5.0. .25.” M55805
2.. 5.3 c. E o. BEES: 52. 9:2. mEEwoh. 32.... 5.38m :26
.0 $55 a. 2. E? 535.: a 55.5.. 5m 5.. 3.5.52.8. 8a 3.33.2“
0.5 5...: “a... 30.5.. 5...? mEEon 0.5 2.. c. 353%.” m. .H

5555..."... of 59..
.938 mm... 055 0.5. 5 25 .5.” mEEwok. Em... 5:55:50 05:.
0.555 8 03.39. m. u. .535? 5.53.5.5 of 5:5 i=5 25 .0
535.559. 9.555 of 9:25 3:355. .55: 35.35.“ 0.5
03.39. mu.an 8..” “Em .5... 55.3.5. .5." 555.5. 2.. o. 8..” .55
3:555 32.. o. c2535 558.. 03m 0. 03.32. u. wanna. 5.50.
55.335 of .55»on .3335.” .3qu.... $5.2...» o... o. .55.»
.5 £5.55 .0 .6955 of :. .53050 3... 3255.....5 >6“. 4.3.5
o... .5352: 5.5 :26 05.. 05% of 5 EB. 3... 5...? .53..
3... 355 oz $53553. 33.5.: out: .5... c3. 5...: £5.59...
in... 5.. mEEwok. 35.33 BEBE—a 0.5 05 “5.30.5. 3....

.23.: :26 9:55 05mm 2.. 5..
3.5.5:“; m. u. .. 3.525 5.5.... on. o. .33... m. £5»on .055558
“.555 a... 3.33.... .5553..." 5.33.25 m3. .5 .uczohuhnw. 9..
.535 o. as... o. 33... 05 3:85. 309$ :26 E558...” 05?.
9.. .5 :30 £385 .355 .2. £58.50 met... 3.”. .5 03.55 mm swam
3:96 855.. 5 33:50 m:.>§. :. 59353.5 Eu 8.." m. 05:

53.5.: 3.553.. 2.. ..o 3.55." .35.; of .5 gauge?»
.5 3.2 8 mm :0».th.” cm on. 35% 25.55. .52.. 5.. .5353.
3.955.. 05 v.33 a 25.5.. .50.. o. 55 EB“. no.5. .552. m ..o
8:55.. of 8.3.5.— 51...» .253 855 .5.“ 0.55 5.555 v.5.
$5.335? £35555 ....Eu.5§. 5 $2.35.” 55m 0. b.3553
8.59. mi... 6.32.95 5 .._..$ 51.96.53. 5 5.55.5. 50.5..
:25. 5 5;. .505. ....$ 55.20 Om 25.5.. 2.5.5 5.. 3.2.5:?" 3..
-.>..un £555 02:. o. .5539. 638.35 m. S 4.5 :28 co BEE
2. o. mot—.35.” :r. 5.. 0.8.9.555. m. .. him .535... of .5.” .539».
:9”... o... .5 35.35... .5.” 3355. .5 3.235 2.. ..c 35qu

28.595 3.4.8:. 2.5

185

PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS

.

585555 5: 5: 5.5: 5:53 5:55 55:58 5:: 5 5555 5:55:53
5%.: 3:5 5:55 :55: :55 55:53 55::: 5:55 5::5:m.m5:: 5 :5 ::5
55:55.5 5: 5555 55:55:: 55: :55: 55555:: 5: :H .::5:5:555 5:5
55555: 5:: :m 5555:5555 555% 5 55:55:55 5:: 5:55: :5: 5555
:5::5:5:5 5: 535555555 55555: 5: 5: 555: 5553 :: .55:M5::
5:: 5 t5: 5 55 5: 5:5 555:: :H 5:555:55: :5 5:555: 5:555:
5::5:M%5E:5::: :8 5555:: :5: 5555 55:m5:: w::35:8 5:5.
55:55:: 5:: 5 :5::5:5:5 :5555 5:: 55555 5: 555 :m
55%. 5:: @555 5:85: 5555: 555:5 55:85:55 5:: :55?
55:55 5:: 5 555.: 5:5: :538 ::::8 < :.m5::m>:5< :5555m:
55:: 5:5: 5:5 :55 5:555 5 :8 :5::5:5:5:m E :5 55:55:
-5: 555 5 55:55:55 :5:m::D .5558: M5555 35:55.5 5:: 5::
535:: .5553 5:: :8 55:58 :5 55:55:55 555:5:555 5:: 5:5: 5:5
:m::5>m 55:55:: 55.555: 5:: :55:D 55:55.: 555% 52553 5::
:5 55555 5:58 E5: 5555 :: 55:: ._5:::5mm5 :5: 5: 5S. .3553
:555 5: :53”: m: 5:: 55555 < 55:55 5: :55 55:55:55 5.:55
-555 5 >5: 55555.5 5: 35:55 555:5:5. 5. 5:5: 55:55:55 55:55::

5:8 5555:5555: 5:: 5 5:55:55 5.:5 55:55:5::5 .5555: 5:: 5
58:55:55: 5:5 555:: 5:555:55 5 55%: 5:5 555 5:: 55 5:5
55:55: 5555 :55: 55:55 55:55:: 55 5:55.: :55? 5:55 555%
555 5:555: 5:558 5:555:55: 5 555%: 5:5 5555:: 5.3.

55:83:55 5555.92: :5555: 5:: 5
5:55 5:5::m:5555 5: 55:55:55 :5 5555:: 555:5 5:: 5 5:5
5:: :5 53:55.: 5 55:5 5 555535 55:55:: 855555: 5:: 5: 553.:
55.35 5:555 535 55:55 ::5::5: 5 :8 5:555: 5 :5 55:5 5:55
5 :8 3555:: 5 5:555 5:: 55555 :8Im:555:: 855:5: :8
53:55:: 55555 5 5555:: 55:5 5:55 55:5 .5555: :55 £355.:
:5: 5:555: @555 5:5: 55 5:5 5:55 35:55.»). 55.55 5:5:5 5:5:
5:5 5:: :O 55:: 5: :55555 :55 :85: 55:55:55 5:: E 55555
5: :55 5::5: 55:: :m 5:55:55: 5: 555:: 55 :55 55:5 :55 5:5
5553555>5 55 :55 55:55:: 5:: :55: 55:55 5:: m: 55:: 52:55:55
5:5 5:55 555555 5555 55: :H .5555 5:: :8 55:55:: 55555:
:55. 53555555 5 5555:: 5: 55:55:55 55::5> 5 555:: 55:55:55
5 5m:5::5 5: 5: 55555:: m::::55 55:555: :55 5:: 5 5:0

stemsnw 552:5 5:5

 

 

 

     

33553.50

            

  

55555 55555.: Emu/H 53555550 55555 555554
m:_:555
2:55 . :55 55555552 :Hmowz :Mmmwwmwmu 5:5 b85m 5555 55555: 553.
5:: 55 m5: 555: . . I. .
I Ewe.” : 5 I s 253%: 8552: I 555505 2. m :5.
5525 I 5:55:55 355% 5
5555. 5:555: 3:553. N 555mm: 5555: 5:555: 25:: 5555559 2”: Imvum
I | I 555 555555-55: I I I
:55: 55:55:35 5: 5th.
Mun—0:20 055.50.:  “0:50.:Mhmrm
:8 5535555.: omnm locum

         
     

5:52 5555 55:0
5553
55:55:55
552355 55:52 5:55:55 5:5,: 5:5:55 5:5,:

5:5:55 5:5,:
5:25

5555.: 555% .5555:
5:555 5:5 55:0.

555355 55:5 Z

533 I

55555 555:. .5555:
5:555 5:5 95:0

M55555 5:5,:

If

    

3:553 5555“: 555M.
55555. 5555555 >54
55555.4

355.5% A55553>n

 

5:355 55:5
5:5 55:55:55

 

.55 .5535 .3558
5:52

 

5:52

 

A533 55555 555%
55555 555555 >54

 

555.5253:

        
         

I..ll I'll |

5:55 55:5
55555 5:80 5:5 55:55.55

555mm

on”: Ieoum:

      

  
     

Ill

 

           
               

.55 55:: 55%
5:55.55 5:0,:

55:55:55
5:55:55 5:5,:

    

8” Slow” 2

 

5:5:55 5:5,: 5:55:55 5:5,:
:55 5555: 55:15:
is:
555m 555 .H .5555 canal:
mEmEm 5:5 95:0. 55:55:: :55 mvuoHIooue
55555.5 558:: 5:5:

 

 

 

:52 5:0 5:5 555:5 oaHIwmmMMOB mmmmH EHHB QZDOMOVAwme mmEEDw mom E¢m00Mm >HMmm3 QmeMOODw

 

186

PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS

3:822; .5593 3mm.» 3 ousmt<
Eme mEEQ
van £32 .8; :8 v5“ man—a Su—um

 

3mg 93:“: .8... 3:33 obsom
scumbag—5c 3.5% Ba masohu UEum

 

:83 B Go; 2 notmtoamcat owcmt<
an? 333.50: 9505.33 goo—om
mEaS 2&3— :3 uwvov Show

 

982.6— 333 “£83..

39? 7.x. .23 3:950:85 0338an

$258 .3390 you 33th

2.30% «3:955 98 22:3: 5.5m
2333 vascuumma van

:3 3:0» E 352 93mm“: 3:5”qu

EEZ harm you 2:96 “Em—530n—

Eovmx SEE. 3.63% 2 by.

3.: Escuwmm—a 3.. owcat<
3336"“

v.8 magnum Ems EELEE quzoucm

3:33 voofoazwmoc $825

3:33am .o 8: .833 €on

cotabmmwom

9:33... :33 12335“ 80

 

lllil]

acraxuqugm

 

 

 

 

   
   

baseman: _E=Eu>£c uc .525:ch
EuEghsoa 35:: 32.3 tEU.
mxcc; Eta...“ as???

30.5: as." 562:" _c mutci
ME.»an anew.

39—“ «ESE .8; ustgohm

22.9:— 9;an

2?: “335;.

mbmam

mama“
03:5. 3338 .6.“ uzmcmm: 26:50
muummtmu :ov LE 302583 23:5
333: can 339— :oc .35.;
3.5333 9.5m

29.: 93.3 282:“ .5. MEEEF

ta; mun—nu Eng :3 9.2on

=ocrioam=ab vcm 32".: .o motoum
mount

.28 20v .5.“ mcomaeopov main—c tSm

333v :ov main—c tSm

33o: =ov wcmxaE rim

.30 .mcouma .3283 5E5

. in? 35mm
:383 952983 28 :3 3:8,
notmuczzaun vascuwha—m

casein—Q so 33%
can 3?: wcmétcovm van watt“?
8:05 8282
30:00:00 958: 2:556
35mm 33850: mat—«E 35m
30m?» vcm 338% @3me tSm
823338 3:0: 35 FREE

:85
$5.52 9:533 :333 how 8:...an
more; van 85mm beam
2628—6... 35¢: tSm
cozusbmcou 3:0: 35 «bum

2.532% 33%

Sausage: €553.33 mo :23thth

I1

 

 

332

38.5 vs“ 3an _o notmbmzchQ

33:8 unmask: 2.0m
2m“: 8:23 3825.

22:5 .5 .08 mcmE—Eam 2 nth.
«3E8 own—E :oQ

30s.... :oQ

«3:80 534.0
5me an?“ 3:558an
.39 .3033 .muogooum .3?

:85 £3me 329.182: £923, :0

 

 

v—

ane—5352 mums...an :mnommm
30% avg
00” .5 {an .3595 2 EC.

:3..on again—m .8883 so
:3 “Eu uEwEmlEmmz massEEOU
«589.52 buoy—U

259m {EEK

x33 numm mumum>$u< ammuomw
E<m00mm QZDOMO>¢AQ mmzzbm QMHwMOODw

33>; 33am

 

38>» :oQ

 

385$ =0

 

3:37.

 

8:335.qu

comaurmmuuQ

“Eh:

 

:FmDOm

QUE—Z.

 

Dzoumw

 

H.me

«3:

 

187

                            

                               

 

 

 

 

 

3::
05m casswbxn: :m 0: 53 000 030:0 5000250: 05.0%me :0 00:00:35,: 3000:
0.0 3:00 300080.500 000 005000: :0 0:03:80 :05“ 0::mb 0000:9310 :0 0053590
.. can 00.0000: unsoummmi 0:30:50 $00.33 0:30:08“: 0:03:50 95.5 :05” 00022: 3.00.0??? 0:003 050:0 EHZMH
Saamag wcsohmmma :0 :OMEEQEA:
3000000: :0 8085
30:80 38:0 000::5mmn:
.000 .3030 .035ch £083.
.80 6055;000:0323”: 000:0 :05“: 00000 :02: .00 00000937:
3000: 000 00.830 .5: 00.500: Pagan: 00mg: :0: £503 000—0500. 30% 300::
000.30 .5: 00:33:00 9:020 00:30: 20:00.0: 00:30:33 0:30.500 «00500.50: 00000.00 .
-0: 000:0 .00: 3:0E0wcmtw 0:03:80 000500.300 0:000: 0:03:80 0000000 wEmmm 000:. :0002 0:003 3:03 392:2

 

 

 

 

30:0 .00: 80:00:30.5 0:03:00
E0:m 30.0: .00: 0023000.:m
000500.500 $000: :35
mania: 000: :0on 0003000 00:: wcsoummma
0:000: 0:00 :0 00:85 000500.500 W000 mar:
09:00: :0: A0200» 0003800 0000000 000
«0050500: 00:0030: 0003500 0030530500 005% 0:0: casemme

00000

0000?:me .00: 300509055 0:02

30% She: .5: 003000: 0.500m #035 00000 0:0,":

 

 

 

 

 

00mg: :0: 0E5: 000.3800
052:5 38 009.: £20

0020.580 00:00:00 300000 003.52
-500 0000.00.31: .00: 000000 “:0: 000:0m -800 050%me .00: 0053000 0500.5 Ewmz 0550 000 0:007.

.30 .205 00080550: 00:80.00: :35 300E 0:005 0:0
4:0 $083000 .385 £0030 £00000 mammcmm casewme 050:0 0:00.0mhwm: :3. 0030.5000500 0:00.;
.30.:0 001.0%me .00: .mEgm—n 0.03m 3030 03050.00 30:0 0009:: 0:220 000 0:32

 

$00000 85.85 .00: 00300.5
000500.50: 0:000: 0:003 0003500
88% :0: 53000 0.03m

 

 

PLANNING SUMMER PLAYGROUND PROGRAMS

anew
00:00:20: 000 20:50:: :0 23:00:00:
383 035:0 :0 $3005”: 00500933 0:800 0mm;
0:32 0850 000:0 000000 .00: 80:00:30.2: 0530000 . 300000 0:50:00me
000 0:32 00: 300.00?th“ 0003500 00080550: $00.00 0:003 0003500 0:30:20: :0 053mm: 0:003
20000 :0: 53000 500.”: 3:0:mmm 080000 00:33 000m 3:30 000 35..

  

  

 

 

III

2200:“: 00:00“: :020233Q

  

200.500.. 33%

  

00::000nw0xl.

 

 

 

0:003 :0mm 00:03:03: 3:00am
0030:0000IE4m00mm QZDOMUqum mmEEDw QmeEUUDw

Progress
through

Books

&‘

AST SUMMER Vincennes, Indiana, enjoyed a
L “Century of Progress Through Books"
which combined fun and reading. It was
formally opened May 26th and closed July 22nd.
Not being organized for profit, there was no capi-
tal stock. Any boy or girl in the city who owned
a library card was eligible to become a founder by
registering at the main or branch library. Previ-
ous to the opening of the fair the management of
the corporation was vested in the Board of Trus-
tees of the Public Library.

Construction began immediately on a number of
buildings, including travel and tranSportation, a
museum of history, general exhibits, a Court of
Nations and the Indiana building. The children
day by day added to the construction of the build-
ings bright colored bricks received for each book
read. Every brick had the child’s name, school
and book title inscribed upon it, and the building
in which it was placed was determined by the
type of book read.

A sightseeing trip revealed a big umbrella, En-
chanted Island, the magic mountain guarded by
the tin woodman, the marble house, and the Tem-
ple of Hehol. The Court of
Nations, an exhibit built by

 

By JANE KITCHELL
Vincennos Public Library

theater there were weekly story hours featuring
other countries; slides of different lands were
shown supplemented with views of the Century
of PrOgress, and a talk on the fair. Orchestras
and other music groups added to the success of
the music festival and Indiana Day.

To help stimulate interest the winners each
week had their names in the Hall of Fame for the
best written book report, the best oral report, the
best contribution to the Court of Nations, and for
the largest number of books read.

The exposition closed with a pageant parade
when the King and Queen were crowned. The
honors fell to the boy and girl reading the largest
number of books. Scouts, drums and bugles her-
alded the approach of the float bearing the newly
acclaimed sovereigns and their royal court. Two
other fioats accompanied the royal float, carrying
the Ehchanted Island and several of the completed
buildings. These were followed by 300 diploma

winners forming an avenue of
flags. The grand finale took

the children, displayed relics
and souvenirs of other lands
and peeple provided by the
children from their collection
of treasures.

Hollywood with its picture
theater was established in the
basement. Admission was by
ticket only given for each book
read during the week. At the

183

“Thc primary purpose of the Cell-
tnry of Progress held in Chicago
last year was 'to depict man's
achievement in the past hundred
years.’ The world today enjoys
new means of transportation, new
methods of communication, ncw
processcs of manufacturing, and
new methods to fight (liscasc, much
for man's health, comfort and
safety, all of which can be found in

hooks in your own public library."

place at the library amid a
blaze of colored lights and the
balloon ascension. Public-
spirited citizens donated trucks
and fireworks to make the oc-
casion memorablc to the chil-
dren.

The diplomas were awarded
in the fall at the first Parent

(Caitlin:ch on page 212)

The Pittsburgh Day Camps

AST SUMMER a program of
day camping utilizing
four of the city parks and

financed by the City of Pitts-
burgh was instituted under the
joint auspices of the Federa-
tion of Social Agencies, the
Community CounciIS'and the

Interest in day camping has
become so keen that it has
seemed desirable to publish
in some detail information

regarding the day camp con-
ducted in the summer of 1933
by a number of local agencies
in Pittsburgh.

Handcraft. The day CMps
had an exceptionally good
handcraft program, the chil-
dren making things both beau-
tiful and useful which they
took home. The types of craft
activities included wood work
(jig saw work), tin work, spat-

Recreation Department. The
project successfully provided
a Five-day camping period for more than 3,200
children living in congested neighborhoods. These
children were selected on the basis of their health
and recreational needs by the schools and relief
agencies. At the end of the season a report on
each child was sent to the referring agency.

The four districts chosen for the experiment
were those whose residents were. felt to be in the
greatest human need. Registration was conducted
in the local Community Council offices of these
districts, and the camps were open for eight five-
day periods from July 5th through August 25th.

The Program
In planning and carrying out the daily program
it was the purpose to provide activities which
would have some carry-over values, and which
would not be too strenuous for -the children. The
program which follows shows the activities pro-

vided in general in all of the camps.

9:00 A.M. Children meet counsellors at car stop.
Board special cars. Attendance check-up.
Singing.

9:30 A.M. Children leave street car. Walk to camp
headquarters. Attendance check-up. Game
period (games of low organization such
as ring games, relays, com-bat, etc.)

10:15 A. M. Athletics (mush ball, volley ball, etc.) or
‘handcraft.

11 :00 A.M. Hikes (exploration trips, nature lore, etc.)
or handcraft.

11 :45 A. M. Personal clean-up. Attendance check-up and
quiet period.

12:00 Noon. Lunch—cafeteria style.

12:35 P. M. Rest period with quiet group singing and
story—telling.

2:00 P. M. Swimming (-boys one day, girls the next)
or showers for group not swimming, or
handcraft.

3:00 P. M. Free play (any activity in which children
care to participate).

3:15 P. M. Personal clean-up. Returning equipment
and clean-up camp site.

3 :30 P. M. Attendance check-up. Walk to street car.

3:45 P. M. Board street car. '

 

ter prints, crayon prints, clay
modeling, plaster of paris
work, needle work, paper work, lanyard making,
yarn work, painting, sketching, soap carving,
work with thistles and burrs, paper weaving and
copper work.

Dramatics—Storytelling. The dramatic work
attempted was simple and elementary but some
excellent results were secured. The creative type
of acting was employed and the younger children
dramatized nursery rhymes, while the older ones
did story-acting. The.groups were mixed both in
sex and color. Some of the typical plays presented
were : “The Dancing Princess,” “Rumpelstiltzkin,”
and “Little Scarface.” Storytelling was popular
when the stories were told in small groups. In
addition to such stories as the “Just So Stories,”
and fairy tales, the campers repeatedly asked for
stories about other camps.

Games. The children enjoyed the game periods
which were planned for the different age groups.
Treasure hunts, hare and hounds, and play day
programs were received most enthusiastically.

Nature Lore. Nature lore was one of the pop-
ular hobbies and was introduced into the pr0gram
through hikes, stories, nature games, and the mak-

' ing of leaf and flower spatter and crayon prints.

In one park two selected groups were taken on all
day hikes. The children cooked their own lunch
in the woods over bonfires, learned to build fires
and became familiar with a great deal of nature
lore. The interest shown by those chosen to go
on the hikes and by others was very keen.

Athletics. No very strenuous athletic activities

were scheduled. Mush ball proved the most pop-
ular game, with volley ball a close second followed

by basketball and football.
189

190 THE PITTSBURGH DAY CAMPS

Music. Singing. although not a scheduled ac-
tivity, was used daily as a program feature wher-
ever it seemed to fit in best. The children enjoyed
it greatly, and many asked to learn songs which
they had heard former campers singing. Action
songs and rounds were especially liked.

Health Considerations

The children registered for the camps were
given medical examinations in the parks on each
Monday morning by members of the medical staff
of the city. These examinations were necessarily
brief. Some of the children were sent home for
various causes. There were many children found
by this hasty examination to be undernourished
and malnourished. In some cases where abnormal
or dangerous conditions were found they were
reported back to the case workers. A total of 228
children for health reasons were not allowed to
remain in camp. The result

of the summer's experience
showed that it would be bet-
ter in planning future camps
to have the children report
for examinations at some

place in the district on the
Friday or Saturday preced-
ing their camp week. This
plan would give the regis-
trars an opportunity to fill
the places vacated by children
not going to camp. It would
also have the advantage of making the examina-
tions more private and less embarrassing to chil-
dren who are sent home for health reasons.

Each noon before luncheon the children were
given a few minutes of rest, and after luncheon
there was an enforced quiet period. The Quiet ac-
tivities generally carried on during this period

lctin is $.20.

were stories, reading and quiet games. Lunches .'

of sandwiches and milk were provided during the
greater part of the camp period by the Board of
Education, School Lunch Department, at a cost
of eight cents each. Fruit was purchased whole-
sale. The season's experience showed that the per
capita cost of eight cents was not adequate, and it
has been suggested that in the future twelve cents
be expended for the lunches.

Leadership
In charge of each of the four camps were two
head counsellors, one man and one woman. A
director was in charge of all four camps, making

Information on day camping may be
secured from a number of sources.
Girl Scouts, lnc., New York City, has
published a booklet entitled Girl
Scout Day Camps. containing much
practical information of general in-
tercst. It may be secured for 5.20.
A bulletin, the Home Camp, issued
by the Jewish Welfare Board, New
York City, also has many helpful
suggestions. The price of this bul-

a total paid staff of nine people. These counsel-
lors were well chosen and were qualified to as-
sume the responsibility of directing the volunteer
staff. In each of the four camps the head coun-
sellors tried to have at all times at least five vol-
unteer leaders for the girls and five for the boys.
These people could not be expected to give their
entire time throughout the summer because of
other interests. The eighty volunteers did, how-
ever, give splendid service, thirteen of them work-
ing for the entire period. The spirit displayed by
all the counsellors, both volunteer and paid, was
excellent. “It would be difficult,” states the re-
port, “to find a higher type of volunteer service
than that which the camps enjoyed. \Vorking as
they did for no return other than lunches and car-

fare, they are to be highly commended. The staff '

was busy all the time, there being no opportunity
for time off as there is in a full time camp.” At
the end of the season a party
was given for the counsellors
in the downtown Y. M. C. A.

On their arrival at camp
the campers were divided into
family groups, and each coun-
sellor was made responsible
for a group of ten. For
special activities, hobbies and
handcraft, the children did

did not stay in these groups.

Finances
The amount appropriated
by the City Council for the day camps was $5,200.
The financial statement showing in detail how the
money was spent follows:
FOOD
6,206 Lunches at 10¢ per lunch . . . . ..$ 620.60

13,073 (approx.) lunches at 08¢ from
Board of Education, School

Lunch Department . . . . . . . .. 1,045.83
64 Crates of fruit (cnough for 16
days) at $4.43 per day . . . . .. 71.68

16 Days' transmrtation of food by
independent driver at-$4.  64.00
Extra food for counsellors—

emergency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .70
Farewcll party for voluntccr
counscllors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.35
—$l,8|3.16
PRINTING
8.000 Day Camp application hlanks..$ 25.50 25.50
TRANSPORTATION

Children—Special Street Car:
39 round trips from North Sidc Dis-

trict. at $12.00 daily . . . . . . . . . . ..$ 468.00
39 round trips from Hill District, at
9.50 daily  ............... .. 292.50

(Confirmed on page 212)

A Tin Can Carnival

NYONE PLANNING a Tin Can
Carnival might well imi-
tate the youngsters who

charge admissions of “ One
penny and three pins,” and
charge “One dime and three bright, shiny tin
cans,” because by the time the tin' can has made
its full sacrifice for the sake of our carnival
there will be hundreds of them—either dead or
alive, decorative or useful—scattered about the
place!

The idea for this carnival came last summer
dUring a session at camp where the children were
given tin can work instead of more costly kinds
of handcraft taught them in past years. They
pronounced it the “best handcraft we ever had,”
and the number of different kinds of things they
made indicated the unlimited use to which tin
cans can be put and the great satisfaction to be
had from the craft.

The following plans are of course more or less
suggestive and should be rearranged, enlarged or
altered as occasion demands. ‘For a touch of
sophistication, the carnival might be planned as
an afternoon tea dance or perhaps an evening
affair. In this case less program from the stage
would be necessary, but a good orchestra would
be indiSpensable. On the other hand, if the car-
nival were given in a church basement, a country
fair could be portrayed. If this were done em-
phasis might be put upon the booths, and specially
able “criers” obtained to preside over each. Their
jests and banter would be a feature. of the
evening.

Making the Articles

Of course the object of our carnival is to make
money for our organization, be it club, class,
young people’s society or other grOUp. It will
have to be planned some time in advance, and the
very first thing that demands our attention will
be making the things that are to be sold. The
details of the decorations, refreshments, program
and the like can be left until later. Committees
will be necessary to supervise this “manufactur-
ing” and as well as booths, decorations, costumes,
program, stage setting and refreshments. Of

By ZORA JOY GIFFORD

Special Club Leader
Sedgwiclc and Cowley Counties. Kansas

course it is expected that all
members of the organization
will contribute something in the
manufacture of the things to be
sold and each will have a'place
on some committee or in some official capacity on
the day of the affair.

A wofkshop in the basement of someone’s home
will probably be the best way to solve the problem
of manufacture. A church or other organization
having its own building or meeting place could
turn its headquarters into a workshop for the few
weeks preceding the carnival. Some of the arti-
cles can be made at home without any difficulty
and with a very small array of tools, but others
will require special tools which will not be found
in most of the homes. (These may have to be
borrowed with a promise to take extra good care
of them and return them promptly when you are
finished with them.) Another reason for doing
the work in a central place is that ideas come so
much more readily and it is so much more fun
when people work together.

All articles that are to be offered for sale will
of course be of the very best workmanship. All
edges will be carefully finished—no cuts from
anything sold at our carnival! And cuts are not
at all necessary if the edges are filed properly and
dressed down with steel wool (size 000 is best)
just as soon as the tin is cut. This is safety first
for the worker; for a finished job and safety for
the purchaser, all straight edges must be hemmed
-——that is, turned back just as a piece of goods is
turned back for a hem. Once you have the thrill
of the craft and the knack of handling the ma-
terial, many clever creations will suggest them-
selves to you and each will be the forerunner of
others just as clever. They may be staunchly
utilitarian, such as the sugar or flour scoops, the
tin cup, the kitchen utility cup, or the memo pad
holder; or they may be just as frivolously decora-
tive as the candle holders, the ash tray, the nut
cups or the place card holders. Flower pot' con-
tainers, bird houses, pin trays, letter holders, and
even novelty jewelry are other possibilities.

Modernistic letter holders with desk blotter-
pad corners to match ran like an epidemic through

191

192 A TIN CAN CARNIVAL

the camp, and when decorated with a touch of
gilt 0n bright enamel they are not to be scorned!
Both of these are among the simplest things to
make. For the letter holder a small or medium-
sized can is flattened and the pattern marked out.
It is then cut, filed and finished around the edges.
Next it is bent over a piece of hard wood with
square edges, the back being left higher than the
front. After it is bent it should be painted both
aside and out. Stand it upside down and allow it
.0 dry. One clever design has the back cut square-
cornered and painted sky blue, with clouds if you
wish; against this, the front shows a green tree
silhouetted.

For the blotter corners the simplest procedure
is to cut a rectangle having a length equal to the
base of the triangle which is the finished corner
and a width equal to its altitude. This rectangle
is filed and smoothed with steel wool and the two
corners bent back over the wood block to form
the triangle. A little experimenting will indicate
many patterns by which these corners may be cut.

Sugar scoops come in several varieties; one
evolved by one of the younger boys and later
copied by several others was cut low on the
seamed side of the can and lc ft high on the other.
'The handle, which was a 4-inch piece of broom
handle, was fastened by a screw to the bottom of
the can. When enameled white it was a very
presentable and usable piece.

In making bracelets, it is imperative that the
edges be smooth and that there are no snags or
rough,sharp edges. Special care must be taken in

finishing these edges. Improperly Fmished brace-
lets were the source of nine-tenths of the acci-

dents at camp, and all could, of course, have been
prevented if the proper precautions had been
taken to dress the tin down before bending it into
bracelets. Although these bracelets may not have
much to recommend them in point of strength or
durability, they can be made attractive and would
be welcomed as inexpensive gifts for young girls.
Usually they are cut with scalloped edges or some
other pattern and left shiny or painted, as the
designer may wish.

For the flower pot con-
tainers, medium or large
cans should be used. They
will be more graceful if
they are divided into
sixths at the top and split
about half way down with
the resulting strips scal-

Detailed suggestions for making tin cups,
scoops and other kitchen utensils, place
card holders, ash trays, candle holders and
similar articles will he found in an article,
“Tin Can Craft on the Playground” by
Charles M. Graves, in the July issue of
RECREATION. Miss Gifford suggests not only
a profitahle use for such articles, but a
royal good time as welll

loped at the top and bent outward. The front
“petals” may curl over to the bottom of the pot
with the back ones left slightly flared to form a
background for the plant.

Decoration is fully half of the article. An in-
teresting effect is obtained by blowing gilt dust
(the kind used in mixing gilt paint) onto freshly
enameled surfaces. This process is probably not
original with the writer but it was discovered
more or less accidentally and may not be generally
known. A small amount of the gilt dust is held
in the palm of the left hand, while in the right
hand is held the article to be decorated, which has
just been given a coat of enamel. Considerable
manipulating is necessary and it is a good idea to
decide before starting just how the article can be
held without smearing the paint—either on it or
your self. Then, blowing across the palm of the
left hand very lightly, lodge a small amount of
the dust on the fresh paint. Blow very lightly at
first as there is a tendency to blow large blobs of
the dust onto the paint, thus leaving an uninterest-
ing smudge of gilt. Light, feathery dustings of
the gilt are better, but it will take some practice
to get them just as you want them. Turn the
object slightly' and administer another touch of
the gilt, varying the density from place to place
to add interest. This gilt dust may be obtained at
any paint shop and comes in many colors—green,
bronze or red gilt, silver, gold and others—and
the color of dust should be that which will best
harmonize with and decorate the color of paint
used.

Painted motifs, soldered designs, or mottled
paint applied with a sponge make effective decora-
tions for tin can craft.

Now let us suppose the flower pots with the
gay decorations, the stodgy sugar scoops, the can-
dle holders, ash trays and letter holders are all
finished. Some sort of grouping or classification
will be necessary if there are many of them, and
it would offer an excellent opportunity to use
several decorative booths about the room even if
there were not many of any one item to be sold.

Just to show our faith
in our products (and inci-
dentally promote that of
our guests), we will make
generous use of such
things as flower pot hold-
ers, candle sticks, ash
trays and similar articles
we have made, in decorat-

 

A TIN CAN CARNIVAL 193

ing the hall for our carnival. Our stage can be
made modernistic by columns of shiny tin cans
(loaded with sand for ballast), or perhaps you
will prefer the pyramid type of decoration which
one sees in the grocery store. Either one built of
shiny cans minus distracting wrappers would be
effective. Or if the cans were painted, another
touch of color and a less modernistic effect could
be introduced. Such an arrangement, either in
columns or pyramids, would be intriguing as a
background, and for a reflector across the stage
in front of the footlights the broken reflection of
a row of shiny cans would give a novel effect. If
one wanted to be quite technical, the backs could
be used as a reflector
and the fronts painted.
J u s t another starting
point for your imagi—
nation!

The Booths

Now let us turn our
attention toward th e
booths. There will be
one for novelties, one
for kitchen gifts, one
for toys, and so on,
each decorated in keep-
ing with the objects it
contains. The classifi-
cation will depend prin-
cipally upon the array
you have before you to
classify. In sellingthese
things a real old-fash-
ioned auction would be
fun and entertaining, if
there are not too many
things to be sold or if there are a few choice ones
for which you want a special price and special
recognition. So we are going to allow thirty to
forty-five minutes on our program for the auc—
tion. That will necessitate securing a good auc-
tioneer—not a professional one, of course, but
someone with a real “gift of gab” who will be
entertaining as well as able to make folks want
to buy. Both the committee on sales and the com-
mittee on program might give him a few good
rehearsals if there is any doubt about his ability
as an auctioneer. For those things that are not to
be sold at auction a price must be determined and
should be placed on each with a label that is
plainly seen and read. Fer these you will want

 

Among the best sellers at a carnival are
found attractively decorated candlesticks

someone in each booth to serve patrons during
the carnival. They can remain in the booths
throughout the afternoon or evening, but .of
course we do not expect to make sales during the
program. That will be too attractive to allow our
guests to think of anything else while it is in
progress. .

The Program

Now everything is in place, the hall is in festive
dress aided by many of our own tin can creations,
and it is time for our guests to arrive. They are
invited for two o’clock, and we shall permit them
to roam about from one booth to another for a
half hour or so in order
to see the various ex-
hibits. But at 2:30 a
bang and a crash will
introduce the “Tin Pan
Parade,” and our pro-
gram has begun. (Some—
one among your num-
ber will have the music
for this song which was
popular about 1927 or
1928.) This can be
made a very stirring
march number with the
tin can section of the
band marching in and
taking their seats osten-
tatiously in the orches-
tra pit.

Our orchestra need
consist of only one good
pianist assisted by the
Tin Cannists, but of
course 0 t h e r instru-
ments will add to the effectiveness, and the tin
cans may make up the percussion section. Their
music will be somewhat limited, no doubt, but
with the background of one or two good musi-
cians, tin cans with a few pebbles, dishpans with
wooden spoons as drumsticks, and other “canny”
and uncanny combinations can be made to fur—

nish stirring music On the rhythm-band order.

Costuming will be important, and the players
should never be allowed to forget that they are
real, genuine, living artists! Russian blouses, with
borders of motifs obtained from tin can wrap-
pers or copied from them, and tall hats (replicas
of tin cans with all the pictures and printing

194 A TIN CAN CARNIVAL

left on) will help them to maintain this profes-
sional attitude.

Now we are ready for the opening chorus. It
may be a further (vocal) rendition of the “Tin
Pan Parade” or something entirely different. A
tin can parody on any current popular song would
be good, or some old song might be made to live
again at the touch of our artists. (Our program
committee—as well as all the others—will have
to be as Original as Adam I)

Following the chorus the chorines (dressed to
represent the famous 57 Varieties) go into a
dance. It can be very effective, though very sim-
ple, when done with the assistance of tin can
stilts. (Better practice this for some little time
previously, for stilts are tricky and a public spill
would be embarrassing to the “spillee,” to say the
least!) The stilt is easily made by punching two
holes in opposite sides of a tin can, running a
stout cord or wire through the holes and tying the
ends together in a length just long enough to
reach the hands of the person using the stilt. In
order to leave the hands free for action a “har-
ness" coming over the shoulders might be used, or
the stilts might be fastened firmly to the feet of
the dancers with a stirrup effect over the instep.
The cans should be painted brilliant colors or
shined brightly in keeping with the rest of the
stage setting or the color scheme for the affair.
Stilts for each of the dancers should be in keep-
ing with the one of the 57 Varieties which she
represents, and the various pairs may be of
assorted sizes.

A drill similar to the “Seven Jumps" dance, a
modification of our old friend “Looby Loo” on
stilts, or a “Lazy Bones” dance could be made
to fit our theme. Lazy Bones should be costumed
with ragged straw hat, much-patched overalls,
and red bandana. Any simple routine with very
few steps will suffice, as the mere fact that the
dancers are mounted will make the number en-
tertaining. Perfect unison and good rhythm must
characterize this number as in tap dancing.

Now we must give the audience more informa-
tion about our carnival. This can be done in a
strictly informative “Eulogy to the Tin Can" ex-
plaining in somewhat flowery terms that the tin
can up to now has been overlooked, misjudged:
that housewives who are experts with the can
opener are benefactors of humanity; that without
so many of them today’s carnival would have been
impossible and the longer they continue to use the
can opener and the more such housewives there

are, the further will civilization progress. Tell of
the recent change that has come over the 9,999
cans used in preparing for the carnival. State
your platform as “A can opener in the hand of
every man, woman and chil "—“the dawn of a
new era for the tin can.” It has now come into a
new dignity; friends all over the land acclaim the
tin can—true, in other forms, but a tin can none-
the-less!

Let this eulogist introduce the auctioneer whose
duty it will be to make the audience (your pa-
trons) feel that the tin can has now fully meta-
morphosed and that the things offered for sale
are real and not mere caricatures of genuine arti-
cles and the fact is that with care they can be
made just as worthwhile and much more interest-
ing than much of the novelty ware offered at
Christmas time in variety and department stores.

If the auction is planned as the main feature
of the afternoon, the other numbers on the pro-
gram should be cut short to allow it plenty of
time without making the program long and tire-
some. In this case it would be advisable to in-
tersperse the auction with entertainment for vari-
ety. But if the auction is only a part of the pro-
gram it should be shortened as much as necessary
to allow ample time for other entertainment.

Having satisfied ourselves with the auction's
returns, at least temporarily, we can bring our
program to a close with another number featuring
the Tin Cannists and the combined chorus and
band. What could be more apprOpriate than
“Jingle Bells"?

Other Features, Including Refreshments

Before the audience is dismissed to roam again
among the booths, announcement should be made
regarding the sale which will immediately take
place, and the refreshments, which it is now time
to serve. Tickets have been mentioned and suf-
ficient explanation given as to the use of the tin
cans thus collected. Here is where the dime
comes in.

If the affair is planned as a social for an or-
ganization, refreshments will be expected. If it
is planned as an exhibit and entertainment with
many outsiders invited, refreshments will be a
gracious touch. But here again limitations must
be remembered. For a small, intimate group,
frozen Tin Can Salad—peach, pear or other fruit,
cheese tidbit crackers and coffee should be served.
The salad consists simply of slices of syrup-

(Continucd on page 212)

On New Haven's
Nature Trail

By WALTER L. WIRTH
Superintendent of Parks

New Haven, Connecticut

 

Courtesy Park: and Recreation

NB OF THE new recreational activities of the
0 New Haven Park Department is a Mu-
nicipal Bird and Nature Club organized
about the first of July. The club found immediate
favor and the membership soon rose to approxi—
mately two hundred, new members appearing
every week at the meetings. In the short time it
has been functioning the club has created an in—
terest in nature never before known in the city.
To meet the demand for knowledge about bird life,
plant life and other natural facts a new depart-
ment of nature instruction has been created.
For over a mile in West Rock Park a trail has
been blazed which tells the story not only of our
native birds and New Haven’s trees, wild flowers
and city life, but of prehistoric America as well.
Along this twisting, intriguing trail which weaves
in and out of the wooded area at the base of West
Rock, there are many lessons to be learned ’by all
interested enough to take the hike.

Signs Along the Way

Along the trail we have placed cards telling the
names of trees, plants and shrubs, and some of
their characteristics so that people can more easily
remember them. There is, for example, the nature
club’s model dairy, a dairy in which the cows are
plant lice and the dairymen industrious red ants.
Faber tells many interesting facts about ants
whose social life is one of nature’s wonders. And
here at West Rock Park may actUally be seen one
.of the most remarkable of these wonders. An

alder tree is the site upon which this unique dairy
has been established and the care lavished upon
the plant lice or aphides by the ants is comparable
to the attention given blooded milch stock at the
finest dairies.

We went beyond the nature study that is found
in text books in plotting the outdoor classroom.
The long and unpronounceable names, which only
scientists or advanced students understand, are
the exception rather than the rule on the profu-
sion of signs with which the entire trail is lined.
Instead colorful characteristics of the plants, un-
usual plumage of the birds, or freakish tenden-
cies of the trees are described.

For instance, we bring the following to the at-
tention of the public. “Do you know that you may
wash your hands in the woods with a natural soap
comparable to the finest cleanser on the market?
All you require is a little water and “bouncing
bet” or soap wort bush. From its pink blossom
you can work up a good lather as from any soap.”
Certainly it is more interesting to know this than
to be told the name science has given bouncing
bet or “my lady’s wash bowl,” as it is sometimes
called. That is why the signs that dot the nature
trail lure one to complete the hike. Every sign is
a nature story and a most interesting one.

At the start of the trail a number of these
cleverly phrased signs have been placed to excite
the interest of any one who ventures that far. A
larger sign carries reproductions in color of the
birds that may be encountered along the trail.

195

196 ON NEW HAVE: 1r’5 NATURE TRAIL

“This trail is planned as a friendly guide for any
one who wants to get better acquainted with the
interesting things of nature,” a sign at the head of
the trail avers. Truly it is a friendly guide and a
mighty instructive one.

Another sign imparts the knowledge that thirty
species of trees are identified along the trail; that
five different types of oak will be encountered;
that two kinds of hornbeams have been marked;
that plants which provide free room and board for
insects are along the route; that the tree from
which the wintergreen is obtained and the bush
that gives us witch hazel may be studied; that a
dozen or more ferns thrive
in one shaded nook. All these
and other interesting things
are to be learned by a hike
ox'er the trail, the sign points
out.

Varied Scenery Adds
Interest

The trail meanders in a
general circuitous route, and
in planning the course in
nature study, has been divid-
ed into several parts. Along
the route one traverses
heavily wooded areas, shady
glens and slightly boggy
marshlands. Brooks are
crossed by quaint ru sti c
bridges, and at several points
we find the woods on the one
hand and the open lea on the
other. The first section of
the trail, or the first class in the
Park Recreation Bureau nature
course, has to do with trees and
plants. A stately catalpa tree at the
trail's beginning is marked by a sign which sug-
gests how readily this species may be identified by
its bean-like seed capsules. The catalpa is some-
times known as the “cigar tree” because of the
shape of the seed pod, we learn from the sign.

A staghorn sumac is recognized by a hairy
growth or fuzz on the branches, and other trees
carry signs containing equally quaint characteris-
tics by which they may be identified. There is a
complete discourse on food making plants in
other series of signs strung along the first section
of the trail.

From plant life we progress along the trail to

 

Courier: Park: and Recreation

The trail, in its circuitous
wanderings, takes one through
wooded areas and shadygl-ens.

a tumbled mass of boulders spewed up by some
prehistoric disturbance or sent hurtling down
from a mountain side long since sunk into the
earth’s maw. Along this part of the trail will be
found the story of glacial Connecticut. The geo-
logical phenomenon that brought these giant
boulders to West Rock was quite likely a glacier.

The Judges’ Cave, mecca of thousands of pa-
triotic Americans seeking to view the hiding place
of the regicides, Whalley and Coffey, may have
been carried here from Meriden during the gla-
cial age. Further along the trail there is an out-
crop of the same sort of rock of which \Vest
Rock is formed. At both of
these geological dis plays
many signs have been placed,
one set to tell the story of
glacial Connecticut, and the
other to impart knowledge of
west Rock’s probable for-
mation.

As told by the signs, the
story of the boulder runs like
this. Nearly a million years
ago New England had a win-
ter that lasted thousands of
years. We call it the ice age
or glacial period. During
that time an ice sheet half a
mile thick flowed down over
Connecticut covering even
the highest hill. As the huge
glacial mass moved along it
plucked off huge masses of
rock from the surface over
which it passed. Carrying
them with ice or pushed 0n the
bottom when the ice melted, these
boulders, twisted and broken.by
their journey, were dropped some-
times a long way from home.

From other interesting signs we learn: “A liv--
ing tree is like a huge factory. Raw materials——
water and salt—are taken in through the roots.
Cases are taken from the air through the leaves
and are combined with the other raw materials to
make food. The green leaves are the machines.
Power is supplied by the sun.” \Ve also learn that
the shad bush is so named because it blossoms
when shad “run” and that the June berry got its
name from the fruit assuming a crimSOn hue at
the very beginning of summer. The Service berry
sign tells us it is so called because the Indians use

0N NELV HAVEN’S' NATURE TRAIL 197

 
 

WOODLHUQL5

I we a warm: IN THE mm
h'u-r. M FIMEWAYJ END NEST szhllL‘J '
h N.) nERE ‘
n: I UbUhLL“ HML a Erica .
a. H) WELL h‘)
‘\ FRONT DOOR .
.Ht'. WIND-W BRILsz 5mm:
m me. of waste

.‘W‘

l-..-

 

Courtesy Parks and Recreation

its fruit to make a sort of cake. And speaking of
Indians, nature lovers will find the Indian cucum—
her and the Indian turnip along the trail.

Of the spice bush the signs tell us that during
the Revolutionary War the powdered berries were
used as a substitute for allspice and the leaves as
a substitute for tea. The sassafras, found in
abundance, gives us an oil for use in perfuming
soaps, and medicine is made by distilling the bark,
twigs and roots.

The tulip tree, sometimes known as white wood,
is used extensively for the inter-
ior woodwork of houses, for
cabinet work and in boat build- *5}
ing, our ready sign board guide  i
advises, and you may distinguish
huckleberries from blueberries by
the presence of resinous dots on
the under side of the huckleberry
leaf and the absence of teeth on
the leaves. The huckleberry
branchlets are brown and the
berry has ten seed—like contain-
ers, each with a single seed.

All along the trail the hiker Finds
information about the native birds.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

The woodchuck has his place of
honor in the story of the trail.

Bird and Animal Lore

Another section of the trail is
given over to bird lore. In fact,
signs containing pictures in color
and information about various
native birds may be found from
one end of the trail to the other.
lut in one particular stretch of
path a number of signs have
been grouped so that the guide or
lecturer may discourse on New
Haven’s and W'est Rock’s feath-
ered tribe. Birds’ nests have been
discovered and duly marked.
\Vherever other species are known
to habitate signs have been placed to warn the
hikers to be on the lookout for these particular
birds.

A woodchuck’s hole is not only marked by a
sign that contains data about this elusive little
creature, but a picture of the animal is shown as
well. In a low section of the trail where the land
is marshy, different growths of ferns have been
labeled and mushrooms and other fungi identified.
Further along the home of. the dairy farming
colony of ants is discovered and a complete tale
of the ants’ cows. The story of witch hazel and

(Continued on page 213)

 

C mrrtesy Park: and Recreation

l-low Volunteers Helped in Philadelphia

as‘r SUMMER the Play—

L ground and Recreation

Association of Phila-
delphia conducted th ree
playgrounds, but with the
limited funds available only one center could be
provided with a full staff of paid employees—a
director and two women assistants. 0n the other
two playgrounds only the director was paid, but
because of the larger attendance and program a
staff of five or six workers was essential.

To meet this situation a call for help was sent
out to a small number of carefully selected vol-
unteers. A hundred per cent response was the
surprising result, with only one-third of the vol-
unteers failing to go through the entire season.
This splendid record was in all probability due to
the fact that most of the volunteers were trained
and more or less experienced in some profession.
There were two school teachers, one kindergart-
ner, two advanced students in arts and crafts, two
college seniors specializing in art and domestic
science, one high school girl interested in social
service, and two story-tellers from the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

All the volunteers reported regularly on their
allotted days, some giving extra time occasionally.
The assignments were made for one afternoon or
evening a week, but the kindergartner became so
interested that she reported
nearly every day, often for

By ELIZABETH HINES HANLEY

Director, Recreation Arts Department
Playground and Recreation Association

Philadelphia

organized the craft groups
and put on a little play at
the end of the season. The
only “outsiders” at this play-
ground were two directors
of arts and crafts who came the last month, the
story-tellers from the S.P.C.A., and a young man
who dropped in occasionally to help with the
sports for the younger boys.

Testimony from the Directors

Another source of leadership noted in the
director's final report deserves special mention.
“It seems to me," he comments, “that the ground
was easier to discipline because of the coopera-
tion received from the safety patrol and the older
boys and girls. This was interesting to watch be-
cause it proved the carry—over value of previous
training and what can be done in times of stress.”

The director of the other playground had more
volunteer help, all satisfactory for the most part,
but he, too, paid special tribute to the older boys
and girls for their general cooperation in conduct-
ing activities and maintaining order. “In the mat-
ter of discipline,” he says in his report, "we had
very little trouble, and the damage done by the
children was held to a minimum. There were
very few cases where boys needed discipline at
all, and in these I found that by giving the dis-

turbing individual a position
of some responsibility he was

both afternoon and evening.

On one playground two
seventeen year old girls who
had grown up at the center
offered to make themselves
generally useful and proved
to be among the most faith-
ful and valued of all volun-
teers. They supervised the
swings and sand pile, told
stories and dramatized them,
coached volley ball, directed
the doll library and the inci-
dental sewing for the dolls,
arranged the special parties,
conducted children's games,

l98

Much has been said about the impor-
tance of volunteer leadership in rec-
rcatiou at a time when budgets are
decreased and increased attendance
makes more leadership imperative.
Charles 11. English, Executive Secre-
tary of the Playground and Recrea-
tion Association of Philadelphia adds
another reason for using volunteers.
The number of skilled workers avail-
able, he points out, has increased
greatly. Of the million and a half
young men and women graduated
from college last year only 30 percent
are gainfully employed. Recreation
leaders must do their part to help
there people render service during
enforced l-eisnre to prevent mental
stagnation.

in every case changed from a
disturbing element to a help-
ful one. The attitude of the
children u sing the play-
grounds left little to be de-
sired. They were for the
most part helpful and willing
and entered into the spirit of
making every project a suc-
cess. Go 0 d sportsmanship
was another adniirable trait'
which characterized this sea-
son, and the children showed
a disposition to try to make
things as easy as possible
under trying circumstances."

HOLV VOLUNTEERS HELPED IN PHILADELPHIA

Tot Lot, the playground
with a full staff of paid em-
ployees, had no regular vol—
unteers, but story- tellers
dropped in now and then
and the older children were
often leaders in special pro-
grams such as singing, par-
ties and simple games. The
director here also reported
a splendid spirit of coopera-
tion on the part of the chil-
dren. “Never before,” he
says, “have the children
been able to play for any
length of time unattended
by a supervisor or teacher.
In many cases not even a
junior leader has been necessary to keep the chil-
dren at various types of play. The unattended
children in many cases harnessed their imagina-
tion to many stars of their own accord, and their
reactions were perfectly satisfactory. The social
leaders carried on their work with a greater de-
gree of satisfaction not only on the playground
but also in neighborhood play, fixing up their own
homes and generally helping to improve their cir-
cumstances in life.”

The Doll Library

On all the playgrounds there was a rather
unique activity which was largely instrumental in
bringing out the spirit of cooperation, leadership
and initiative. This was the doll library with in-
cidental parties and shows which had an irresisti-
ble appeal even for the younger boys. In fact, the
demand for dolls exhausted the supply the first

week the library was opened. To meet it we were -

obliged to call constantly on the stock reserved as
samples for the Christmas toy shower, with the
result that at the end of the season not one of
these was left. Most of the dolls were left-overs
from the last toy shower, and there were about
300 of them. Twice that number, however, could
have been used. The dolls were literally adored
by the children, and the care of them led to the
development of such desirable characteristics as
cleanliness, tidiness, carefulness and responsibil-
ity. Interest in sewing was also increased by mak-
ing clothing for the dolls and getting them ready
for parties, parades and the final exhibit.

The children took the dolls out on the library
card system for books and returned them the next

199

 

Story-telling, very popular with Philadelphia
children, provides opportunity for volunteers.

\

week. They could make renewals if ,the dolls
were brought back clean and in reasonably good
condition. Exchanges were also permitted if de-
sired, but few were made as the children became
so attached to their original selections that they
usually retained them until the end of the season
when permanent ownership was given if all the
requirements had been made. These requirements
were that the dolls should be kept clean and in
generally good condition during the season.

This activity proved especially valuable at the
Tot Lot Playground where a kindergarten and
baby clinic had been opened for the summer. The
tots were kept both happy and occupied with
mothering their dolls in all the ways familiar to
them in their own lives—dressing, feeding, bath-
ing, doctoring, spanking, teaching and loving
them!

Radio Homecraft Clubs

Even the building in which the clinic and library
were housed was affected by the activity intro—
duced by the dolls. This resulted from the inter-
est of the ten to twelve year old girls in helping
the club leader renovate and decorate the rooms,
especially those used for the library and for teas
and doll parties. They threw themselves into this
activity with an ardor so intense that they could
not bear the thought of discontinuing it at the
end of the summer, for it was the only oppor—

(Contimwd on. page 213)

From Game Room to Neighborhood Center

By JOSEPH ADLER

Recreation Director

Lavanburg Homes

HEN Tm: Lavanburg Homes, located on

Goerck Street, between Stanton and East

Houston Streets on the extreme east side
of the city, opened in December 1927, the idea of
including a social and recreational center as part
of a model tenement project seemed a bit vision-
ary. Today the plan has proved its value so con-
clusively that the recently enacted municipal hous-
ing authorities law gives specific permission to
every housing authority to provide in its projects
“social, recreational and communal facilities.” If
this clause in the law needs defense, it lies in the
fact that the distinction between living and mere
existing is nowhere drawn more sharply than in
the slums of a great city, where an extra window
in an apartment, or ten square yards of safe play-
ing space, may make all the difference.

The Lavanburg Homes were built to house
actual slum residents, and from the beginning the
tenants have been families that moved in from
the surrounding neighborhood or from' similar
slum areas in other parts of the city. They are
not a “select” group in the sense of being superior,
economically or otherwise, to their neighbors in
the old law tenements all around them. The his-
tory of the development of their communal life,
therefore, has a general validity which ought to
be taken into account now that New York has
federal money available for housing.

In an early issue of the Lat’anbnrg Nectar, a
mimcographed single sheet written and edited by
the children of the Homes, the following an-

nouncement appeared :

"The game room will be opened officially on Sunday,
November 3, 1928. Some of the very interesting games
that will be found there are ping pong. checkers. chess.
lotloes. and others. The game room will be open on
Monday, \Vedncsday and Sunday."

Thus lamer the game room that was to grow
into a genuine conununity center got off to its
start.

200

The record of six months of recrea-
tional activity in one of the model

tenement house proiects in New York .

Clubs for All Ages

In the course of the previous summer, while
tenants were still adapting themselves to the
strange circumstances of their new homes, a cer-
tain amount of organization of the children had
been going on. The Health Club for children
from eight to ten years old, ‘and the Pioneers for
those of ten to twelve were formed in April and
had met on the roof throughout the warm
weather. In May, four more children’s groups
were formed. One of these was the Commission-
ers, which had as members a number of the older
boys of the house whose function it was to act
as combination big brothers and monitors.

The MOthers’ Club and the Fathers’ Club also
came into existence in May of 1928, as a result of
proposals originating with the tenants themselves.
During that summer, the mothers and fathers
supervised play groups on the roof which is
equipped as a practically complete playground,
and had thus had the opportunity to become bet-
ter acquainted with each other. More than this,
they had contact with organized recreation, for
the first time, in most cases. In the fall it was
comparatively easy to interest them in the plan of
a recreation center indoors.

At no time has there been any kind of coercion
practiced to force participation in the social life
of the devel0pmeut. A primary principle adopted
by the directors was that only such activities as
attracted voluntary attendance would be en-
couraged. If a club or other group, once started.
proved pointless or uninteresting. it was dr0pped
without formality. If a group outlived its useful-
ness it was allowed to die peacefully.

Thus the Commissioners did valiant service as
a training agency in the mores of a new kind of
living for the children of the slums. When it had

FROM GAME ROOM TO NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER 201

served its purpose, the members were already be-
ing attracted by other activities, and the club
quietly faded away.

On the other hand, no activity was ever in dan-
ger of being discontinued for the sake of mere
novelty. The library, for example, began in the
first year as a corner of one book shelf in the of-
fice of the supervisor. Now it occupies a section
of the main center and has stimulated into being
a bookbinding club. The shop, too, has had a con-
tinuous life from the early days. Still other ac-
tivities, of which the newspaper is the best in-
stance, have had a sporadic life. These grow and
decline freely, in strict proportion to the amount
and intensity of interest shown by the youngsters.

Membership Based on Interest

A third principle governing the work of the
recreation staff has been that room must be found,
or made, for everyone showing interest. Mem—
bership in the center is not based upon competi-
tive requirements for admission, nor upon resi-
dence in the Homes.

'The newspaper, now very much alive again,
provides a share in its activities for little fellows
of seven or eight as well as for college fresh-
men. The shop gives an opportunity for manual
work to boys who like it but who will probably
never use their training for anything much more
highly skilled than driving a tack to hang a
picture.

Children from the neighborhood, outside the
Homes, have always been welcomed in the center
on the same footing as those who live there. At
the present time there are about 300 boys and

girls in nightly attendance from seventeen dif-J‘-

ferent streets round-
about. Briefly, it is
not the exceptional
child, but “every
child” who has been
given the chance to
live with the least pos-
sible handicap from
his economic position.

There are few things
boys enioy more than
playing lndian, even
though the scene must
be laid in a tenement
house instead of the
"great open spaces."

The one competitive activity going on in the
center is an athletic organization of boys and girls
of from eight to fourteen years of age, called the
Blues and Golds. The boys and girls in this gI‘OUp
are segregated by age and sex. They compete not
only in ordinary athletic games, but in singing,
acting, and other group activities. The eXperi-
ence with the Blues and Golds is significant
psychologically and sociologically. This one con-
cession to old-fashioned prejudices about human
nature draws to itself neither larger numbers nor
greater enthusiasm than most of the other 38 non—
competitive activities in the center. Rugged in-
dividualism may not, after all, be incurable.

Gymnasium work has had to be conducted
under difficulties. Impractical dreamers, as the
original planners of the Lavanburg Homes may
have seemed in 1926, they were too modest to in—
clude a gymnasium in the buildings. Arrange-
ments have been made with the city for the use
of public school gyms twice a week, and there are
now, in spite of this slight hardship, about a hun-
dred members in the gym group.

A weekly forum on current affairs is presented
by a group of adults and older boys and girls
calling themselves the Neighborhood Sponsoring
Committee. They have brought speakers to the
center on subjects ranging from the city election
campaign of last fall to analyses of the National
Industrial Recovery Act. Attendance at these dis-
cussion meetings is about a hundred and remains
constant.

A final contrast: In January, 1929, two months
after the center had opened as a mere game room,

a! the total attendance at the center for the month

hi

(Continued on page 214)

 

How to Produce a Play

axv Tausrtxo play di-
M rectors and actors have
been betrayed by the
statement, “A poor dress re-
hearsal makes a good performance.” They did
not realize that whoever originated that delusive
phrase did it merely to keep his actors from leav-
ing town before the night of the performance!

There is only one way in which a poor dress
rehearsal can make a good performance, and that
is by comparison. The dress rehearsal may be so
terrible that the producing group thinks that the
performance is good. when it is not good at all
but is merely an improvement over the poor dress
rehearsal!

!t is quite true that the majority of amateur
dress rehearsals are “flops.” Half the night is
spent in trying to get the scenery to stand up.
The other half of the night the actors forget
everything they ever knew.

The Preliminaries

The cause of this state of affairs can be traced
to the bad habit of trying to fit all the parts of the
production together in one evening. For the first
time the scenery is placed upon the stage. and it
refuses to fit together in one corner. The lighting
artist works his lights for the first time and blows
out a fuse. The actors put on their costumes and
the hero finds that his is three sizes too small.
For the first time the actors are in make-up, the
right furniture is being used. all the properties
are on hand. the curtains are pulled, the prompter

is in the right place, and the poor actors are so
overcome by all the things

they've never seen before that
they forget everything! Con-
fusion and loss of memory
reign supreme!

The last half dozen or
more rehearsals should be so
organized that these parts of
the production are fitted in onc
at a time. For five or six re-
hearsals before the dress re-

202

By JACK STUART KNAPP

National Recreation Association

In this article, whieh is the final
one of his series, Mr. Knapp points
out the fallney of the theory that
a poor dress rehearsal means a
good perfortnanee. and tells how to
avoid the “jitters” which so often
threaten a play's snecess. The final
performance is not the end. ac-
eording to Mr. Knapp, who tells of
some of the after-play matters
whieh must be given attention.

hearsal the actors should wear
costumes. For four or five
rehearsals before the final one
they should put on their make-
up. The scenery should be in place three or four
rehearsals preceding the dress rehearsal, and the
lights should be experimented with at least two
or three rehearsals before the last one. The day
before the furniture that is to be used should
be brought on.

The dress rehearsal is run exactly like a per-
formance. Everything is in its proper place and
is used as it will be ihe night of the performance.
The writer has found it a good plan to invite a
half dozen interested people to the dress rehearsal
to act as an audience. This makes actors and
producing group work harder and gives them the
"feel" of playing to an audience.

At the Dress Rehearsal

The dress rehearsal should if possible run with-
out interruption on the part of the director. It is
too late at this stage to make any changes, and
they won’t be remembered the night of the per-
f ormance.

A poor dress rehearsal lends itself to nervous-
ness and lack of confidence, resulting in a weak
and jerky performance. A good dress rehearsal
assures confidence and a smooth, strong per-
formance.

!f the actors are inexperienced and .have been
rehearsing strenuously, the director might, imme-
diater after the dress rehearsal, advise his actors
to go home and forget the show until time for the
performance. and to sleep, rest or read quietly a
few hours before coming to
the theatre.

On the Opening Night

On the opening night, the
actors should be in the dress-
ing rooms an hour before cur-
tain time, getting into costume
and make-up. A few moments
before the curtain the director
may call them all together for

HOW TO PRODUCE A PLAY 203

a few brief instructions, warning them to watch
their cues, to keep quiet offstage, to keep to the
tempo of the play, and to keep out of sight of
the audience when offstage. Then with a few
quiet words of confidence and encouragement he
dismisses them to their places.

The stage manager then calls “Clear the stage.”
Everyone leaves the stage except those supposed
to be found there when the curtain rises. He next
calls “Places,” and actors upon the stage get into
character and into their proper positions. Finally
he calls “Curtain,” the curtain rises and the show
is on. If the play has been properly organized
and rehearsed it will run smoothly, the staff work-
ing efficiently and quietly, the actors concentrating
upon their performance.

Curtain calls should be allowed only after the
curtain falls on the last' act, and they should be
rehearsed, so that each actor knows what place
to take upon the stage and What to do. Audience
and guests are not allowed backstage during the
performance.

“Putting the Show to Bed”

Immediately after the final curtain, the director
and stage manager should have the entire cast and
producing staff help “put the show to bed.” They
all help strike and stack the scenery, put away
properties and lighting equipment, and clean up
the stage, leaving it in a state of order. This can
be done quickly and merrily by the whole group,
instead of drearily and laboriously by a few
people the next day.

The actors then get out of costume, remove their
make-up, and are ready to go home with friends
and family, listen to the usual compliments and
enjoy their triumph.

A few days later the director begins to receive
telephone calls.

“This is Jones Furniture Store, where’s that
set of furniture we rented you?”

“This is Mrs. Smith. I lent your leading lady

an evening gown for the performance. I’d like
it back, please.”

“This is the Johnson Hardware Store. \Ve lent

your property man a revolver for a show. Where
is it ?”

The Final Check Up
To avoid this, and to check up on the results
of the performance the director should call a

meeting of the staff and the actors a day or two
after the performance. This meeting may well
take the form of a party, with refreshments. The
performance is discussed, criticized by the direc—
tor and other members of the group, and each
member of the producing staff gives his report.
The business manager tells how much money was
or was not made, reports bills paid, or still out-
standing. The property man checks up on all
properties, and the costume director on costumes,
seeing that each is returned. The make-up artist
reports the kit in order, what material is needed
in replenishing it, and other détails.

The group by this time has forgotten the time
spent in preparing the show and all the trials and
tribulations undergone, and realize that they have
had a very enjoyable time, and have undergone
a very worthwhile experience. Someone suggests
“Let’s put on another play,” and they are off on
another creative effort.

The writer congratulates the directors and ac-
tors who have had the courage and perseverance
to read all of these articles and wishes them good
luck and “many curtain calls”!

A Brief Bibliography

This brief summary of how to produce a play
may be greatly supplemented by studying the
following publications.

The Book of Play Production, by Milton Smith.
D. Appleton. Price $3.00

Community Drama, National Recreational Association.
Price $2.00

Drama Clubs Step by Step, by Charles F. Wells. Walter
Baker Co. Price $1.00

Lighting the Stage; by Jack Stuart Knapp. Walter
Baker Co. Price $1.25

Play Production Made Easy. by Mabel Foote Hobbs.
National Recreation Association. Price $.50

Technique in Dramatic Art, by Halliam Bosworth.
Macmillan Co. Price $2.60

Ten Theatre Make—up Bulletins, Max Factor Make-up
Studios. Price $.35

Time to Make Up, |by Richard B. \Vhorf. Walter Baker
Company. Price $1.25 '

PUBLISHERS

D. .tzppleton and Co., 35 W'est 32nd Street, New York
1ty. .
Macmillan Co., 60 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

Max Factor’s Make-up Studios, 1666 No. Highland,
Hollywood, Cal.

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York City.

Waltefr Baker Company, 178 Tremont Street, Boston,
Lass.

Boston Revives the Medieval Pageant Wagon

By MARGARET CASWALL

Boston, Massachusetts

ICTURE to yourself a huge red and yellow
P wagon drawn up in a city park or play-

ground, with one of its sides let half way
down to make a platform, revealing a painted
background and intriguing drop curtains about
to be pulled back for the entrance of actors
and actresses. Picture in front of this an audi-
ence of several hundred fathers, mothers and
babies standing or sitting on improvised bench-
es; and in the “dress circle” hundreds of chil-
dren sitting in the dust in order to get the
nearest and finest view of the mysteries to be
revealed when the curtains are drawn.

You are now in the presence of one of the
most interesting innovations of Boston's Com-
munity Service and the city’s Park Department
—a traveling theater which for several sum-
mers has been training some of the school
children to give classical plays for the educa-
tion and entertainment of all the neighborhood.

in favor of a big motor truck. In the olden
times, too, the plays were given for the most
part in front of the windows of the people who
had contributed most generously to their up-
keep, whereas Boston's plays are as free as the
air to all who wish to see them.

To all parts of Boston goes this play wagon.
During August eight performances were held
at the various points. The actors and actresses
are all school children trained by members of
the staff of Community Service in rehearsals
twice a week for a month. The wagon and
the truck are donated by the Park Department.

What It Means to Audience and Participants

It has been proven that the audiences are
getting as much from these plays as are the
young performers. “Last year," said a staFf
members, “we had a hard time to keep the
audience quiet during a play. They seemed to

In Medieval England

Then go back for a
moment to medieval Eng-
land. And you will find
just such stage wagons
and just such eager au-
diences. though with all
the differences of cos-
tumes and manners
which belong to that pe-
riod. For it was just that
old time custom which
gave the idea to Boston
of 1932, but with a dif-
ference~for there were
horses then to draw
those lumbering stages
from place to place,
whereas modern ti m e 5
must need omit the horses

204

“Every company had its pageant; which
pageant (wagon) was a high scaffold with
two rooms; a higher and a lower, npon
four wheels. In the lower they apparelled
themselves, and in the higher room they
played, being all open on the top that the
heholders might hear and see them. The
place where they played was in every
street. They began first at the Abbey gates
and when the first pageant was played it
was wheeled to the high cross before the
mayor, and so on to every street; and so
every street had a pageant before them at
one time, till all the pageants for the day
appointed were played; and when one
pageant was near ended, word was brought
from street to street, that so they might
come in place thereof exceedingly orderly
and all the streets have their plays afore
them all at one time playing together.”—
From a description of pageant wagons of
mediaeval days written in 159-1 by Arch-
bishop Rogers.

think their part in the
performance was to talk
all the time, making
jokes at the expense of
the cast and getting
nothing out of it. But'
they have learned better,
for they have discovered
that they were 105 i n g
something. Th ey are
now very quiet and ab-
sorbed in the action of
the play." The audience
is getting a better type
of dramatic performance
than they often find at
the movies, and most of
the children for the first
time are seeing living ac-
tors on a stage.

"\Ve find much talent

BOSTON REVIVES THE MEDIEVAL PAGEANT I'VAGON 205

(a.-

among these chil- r
dren,” said one of
workers who had
helped to train them.
“It is an excellent
thing to give the chil-
dren a chance to de-
velop by this form
of self-expression.
They also have learn-
ed good diction and
the value of a co—
operative spirit. We
allow the children to
express their own
idea of the characters
they are to portray
as much as possible;
we never tell them
beforehand just what
the character repre-
sents, and sometimes
they bring out sur-
prising interpretations.

“\Ve usually take one or two out of an old
group of actors and put them with a new group
so that they can teach the newcomers what they
have already learned about things. So long as
they have some part in the play the children do
not seem to care what characters they act; they
do, however, like comedy most of all as does the
audience.” -

“The Queen’s Lost Dignity,” “The Knave of
Hearts,” “A Nativity Play,” “Doctor in Spite of
Himself,” and other plays have been given. There
are usually two casts on hand for these plays, each
giving a performance‘once a week. And in be-
tween the acts there are other diversions for the
wondering audience—dances and music by local
talent, and a community sing to top the program.

Planning for the Performance

If you should happen in at the offices of
Boston Community Service you would find
yourself in a real back stage atmosphere, for
costumes of all sorts—and it is said there are
a thousand of them, many in process of repair
or construction-—-are hanging about. Many
Biblical costumes are among the number. Bus—-
tles, too, and other “Godeyish” fashions are
stored away ready for the play that needs
them. Much planning and scheming are neces-
sary to keep this interesting dramatic venture

__ ._H mm“ 1

 

going, for funds are not plentiful and one dol-
lar often has to do the duty of five.

“A play every night of the week” is the
ambitious aim of this children’s traveling play
house. And who can tell what noted actors
and actresses of the future may now be “strut-
ting and fretting” upon the picturesque red
and yellow wagon stage of Boston’s Commu-
nity Service?

Among the many plays suitable for production
on such travelling theaters as Boston has used are
the following: The Happy Man by M. E. Irwin,
Oxford University Press, New York City, $.20;
Six IV ho Pass While the Lentils Boil by Stuart
Walker, D. Appleton & Company, New York
City, $.50, royalty $10; The Dyspeptic Ogre by
Percival Wilde, Walter H. Baker & Company,
Boston, $.35, royalty $10; Little John and the
Miller Join Robin H ood’s Band by Percy Boyer
Corneau, Old Tower Press, Lockport, Illinois,
$.40; Little Scarface by Amelia H. Walker, Nor-

‘man Remington Company, Baltimore, $.40, and

The Clock Shop by John Golden in “Three John
Golden Plays” published by Samuel French, New
York City, $1.35, royalty $10. Two .new chil-
dren’s plays based on old favorites will be of in-
terest. These are The Crystal Slipper and The

King Who Bum-zed the Cakes by Marion Hol-

brook, Drama Service, National Recreation Asso-
ciation. Price, $.25 each.

WORLD AT PLAY

T H E Playground
and Recreation As-
sociation of \Vyom-
ing Valley, Pennsyl-
vania, is conducting a program for shut-ins. A
worker from the association, paid out of relief
funds, visits each of the thirty-one shut-ins each
week. The community is giving splendid co-
operation in this program, wholesale dealers
supply fruit and many individuals furnishing
flowers. Handcraft projects are being develop-
ed for many, and good reading is being made
available.

A Program for
Sh ut-Ins

THE City of W’est
Springfield, Massa-
chusetts, has pur-
chased a 65 acre tract
of land which will be used for recreational pur-
poses. Thirty thousand dollars was obtained
from ClVA for the project; roads and bridges
have been built and areas for tennis, baseball
and other sports have been laid out. The ap-
propriation obtained by the Recreation Com-
mission for this year’s work is $250 greater
than last year.

A Recreation Center
for Framingham

THE Better Akron
Federation, AkrOn,
Ohio, has allocated
$10,000 to provide
summer playgrounds for school children, and
members of the City Council have agreed to
appropriate $5,000 of gasoline funds for the
maintenance of traffic policemen at the play-
grounds. In addition, the Board of Education
and the City Recreation Commission were as-
sured of $4,000 of SCth funds, $4,000 in labor
through the FERA and county relief agency,
and miscellaneous receipts eXpected to under-
write the $25,000 it will cost to finance the pro-
gram which has been set up. The money will
be used to provide forty-two playgrounds in
strategic schools and public parks.

206

Summer Planning
in Akron

IN April the munici-
pal playgrounds of
Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, held obser-
vances of “Be Kind to Animals" \Veek. Among
the events scheduled were pet shows, parades
of animals and birds, stories about animals dur-
.ing the story-telling hours, and talks on the
subject of kindness to all creatures. At many
playgrounds these events were supplemented
by demonstrations of first aid to animals put
on by Boy Scouts.

Consider the
Animals!

IN “Emergency Fed-
eral Aid for Educa-
tion," published in
April by the Re-
search Division of the National Education As-
sociation, a table is presented showing the
status of certain schools and classes in city
school systems, 1931-1933. In this study sev-
eral hundred cities reported to the United
States Office of Education on their school
program in a number of fields. The report
showed that of 696 cities reporting on physical
education, 84.4 per cent had maintained or in-
creased this activity, while 15.6 per cent had
reduced or eliminated it. In the field of art 83.8
per cent of the 632 cities reporting had main-
tained or increased the activity, while 16.2 per
cent had reduced or eliminated it. Seven hun-
dred and twenty-two cities reported on music.
Of this number 80.8 per cent had maintained
or increased it, while 19.2 per cent had reduced
or eliminated it. Five hundred and two cities
reported on playgrounds and recreation show-
ing maintenance or increase of 79.7 per cent;
reduction or elimination of 20.3 per cent.

Status of Activities in
City School Systems

 

APPROXIMATELY
two hundred people
participated in the
one act play contest

conducted last year by the Recreation Council
of Morgantown, \Vest Virginia. The contest

Morgantown‘s Drama
Tournament

 

I’VORLD AT PLAY 207

was held in two divisions—city and rural.
Players- from seven communities entered the
rural division—nine groups in the city classi-
lication. One of the city groups produced a

beautiful home planned, home-made setting at
a cost of $1.19.

How Boston’s Citizens Spend Their Leisure
——In an effort to find out what the people of
Boston want to do in their free time, the City-‘
Wide Emergency Committee on Health and
Recreation sent out 20,000 questionnaires, 7,204
of which were filled in and returned. Movies
came first in popularity followed by swimming,
card playing, baseball, magazine reading, and
dancing which was sixth on the list. Among
the activities which pooled more than 1,000
votes each were newspaper reading, vaudeville,
basketball playing, attending plays, checkers,
boxing, socials, jig saw puzzles, and concerts.

Sports Week in Hamilton—May 19th to
26th was Sports Week in Hamilton, Ontario,
Canada, and games from soccer to checkers
were in vogue. British rugby, quoits, horse-
shoes, tennis, soft ball, bicycle races, fly and
plug casting, track events and hard ball were
a few of the sports played during the week by
those competing in the contests. The greatest
interest centered on the events for children,
with roller-skating the prime favorite. The
city was divided into four zones in which
elimination contests were held. Finals were
run on the last day of the week. The contest

was held under the auspices of the Hamilton
Herald.

Recreation in a Housing Project—In connec-
tion with the vast Dagenham Housing Estate
of the London County Council, the largest ex-
periment as yet undertaken in municipal hous-
ing in England, 116 acres have been reserved
for development as a public playing field and
open space. The plan includes the provision
of a large children’s section, seven cricket and
eleven football pitches, a hockey pitch, eigh-
teen tennis courts and a putting green. The
contract for the work involves an expenditure
of more than £20,000.

Summer Swimming Plans—On July 2nd the
San Francisco, California, Recreation Commis-
sion opened two swimming pools for the use of

 

 

ORIGINAL JUNGLE-GYM

By far the biggest selling. SAFEST play apparatus in
America. Based on the climbing instinct. Endorsed
and specified by recreation officials everywhere.
About 600 installed in Greater New York: 400 in
Chicago. A big attraction on "Enchanted Island”
at A Century of Progress. The Junglegym is a well
designed. patented device and accommodates more
children in same amount of space. Sturdin built.
Five sizes. Write today for special folder.

LOUDEN PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

Mfrd. by J. E. PORTER CORPORATlON, I20 Broodwoy, Ottowo, Ill.

LOUDEN olso monufoctures 0 corn-
piete line of modern beoch and pool
equipment. New broadside iust off
the press illustrotes and describes full
line. A copy is yours for the asking.
Inquire about Howoiion Paddle Boards

. . o remorhoble new recreotian ond
iif- soving device.

 

 

boys and girls under eighteen years of age. An
admission charge of 5 cents is made which in-
cludes suit and towel. The Playground and
Recreation Department of Los Angeles has
made a reduction in rates for the two plunges
at the swimming stadium. Children sixteen
years and under will be admitted for 10 cents;
adults will pay 25 cents. Rates at all the other
municipal pools will remain the same as last
year—5 cents for children sixteen years and
under; 10 cents for young people seventeen to
twenty, and 20 cents for adults with an extra

charge in each case for the rental of a bathing
suit.

Entertainment Programs in Miami —The

Miami, Florida, Recreation Department in co-
operation with the \Vomen’s City Club of
Greater Miami, presents a weekly story hour
for children and adults in Bayfront Park. The
program is very popular with people of all
ages, the average attendance being 3,000 men,
women and children. The story—telling hour is
Only one of the entertainment features pro-
vided for winter visitors without cost. Others

203 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles I
i of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

    

MAGAZINES

Safety Education, June 1934
Happy Days on the Playground, by Doris B.
Kapstein

Bulletin of the American Library Association, May 1934

Libraries in Community Buildings, by Susan T.
Smith

The Parents' Magazine, June 1934
Come Out and Play! by Natt Noyes Dodge

The American City. May 1934
New Hampshire’s Planned Park Projects, by Mar-
jorie Sewell Cantley
Constructing Concrete Jetties As a Public \Vork
Project
For \Vell-Spcnt Leisure Time in Hershey, Pa.

The Use of \Vater as the Main Factor of Interest
in the Design of a Park

Lighting the Municipal Swimming Pool in Chanute.
by Ross Cooper

The Epworth Highroad, June 1934
Home Fun, by Lynn Rohrbough
My Best Party

Junior-Senior High School Clearing House. May 1934

Interrelationship of Community-Service Groups, by
Jay B. Nash

The Journal of Social Hygiene, May 1934
Substitutes for Vice, By Bascom Johnson

PAMPHLETS

Playground Teachers' Guide, Buffalo, N. Y.. Board of
Education, Buffalo, N. Y.

Annual Report of the Superintendent of Playgrounds of
the City of Ottawa, 1933

Annual Report of the Department of Recreation. Roanoke,
Virginia. 1933

Playground and Recreation Commission of Alton, Illinois,
Report for the Fiscal Year 1933-1934

Guide to the Appalachian Trail in Maine
Publication Number 4. The Appalachian Trail Con-
ference. 901 Union Trust Building, Washington,
D. C. $.50.

Twelfth Annual Report of the Minerr' Welfare Fund for
the Year l9} l—London. England

Announcement of the Alleghany School of Natural His-
tory Conducted by the Buffalo. N. Y., Society of

Natural Sciences

Education for Character: The Social and Psychological
Background Research Bulletin of the National Educa-

tion Association, March 1934

      

include music, community singing, dances,
talks and demonstrations held every Saturday.

Community Nights in Wilkes Barre— Last
winter two community nights were held at
each of the centers conducted by the Play-
ground and Recreation Association of \Vyom-
ing Valley, the purpose being to give the
neighborhood a more thorough understanding
of the program. The stage and auditorium in
each center were used. The program consisted
of one act plays, singing, tap dancing, and ex-
hibitions of handcraft and art. It is estimated
that 15,000 people saw these performances.

Free Municipal Opera in Los Angeles—Free
municipal opera made its bow in Los Angeles,
California, with the quaint Chinese opera fan-
tasy, “Flutes of Jade Happiness,” written by
Mary Carr Moore, well known local composer.
It was presented on May 12th in the Griffith
Park Greek Theater under the joint sponsor-
ship of the Department of Playground and
Recreation and the Board of Park Commis-
sioners. The cast and choruses included many
outstanding local artists. \Vell known stage
directors and stageeraft experts volunteered
their services to make the production a success.

A National Hiking Forum—If sufficient sup-
port is forthcoming, Natura Magasine will es-
tablish a National Hiking Forum which will be
a monthly exchange of information, advice and
news on hikers and hiking in the United
States. As an experiment Nature Magazine is
publishing in the June, July and August issues
three hiking articles, among them, Organized
Hiking, a National Pastime and Physical Re-
quirements of Hiking. They are contributed by
Ernest A. Dench, an official of the Interstate
Hiking Club of New Jersey and New York.

Physical Education Letters Awarded—Phy-
sical Education Award Day was observed in
April in Loveland, Colorado, when two health
plays and a safety play were presented. The
pupils of the third, fourth and fifth grades re-
ceived the letters and chevrons for which they
had been working under the point system,
while sixth, seventh and eighth grade girls
were given the athletic badges which they had
won by passing the athletic badge tests of the
National Recreation Association.

IVORLD AT PLAY

Recreation At a Copper Mining Camp—
Bingham Canyon, Utah, a copper mining cen-
ter, is located in a narrow gulch seven miles
long. There is very little room for play, and
when school is out the problem of What the
boys can do is a very real one. For a number
of years the Kiwanis Club has made the pro-
vision of recreation for the boys of the town
one of its projects. Each summer the coach of
the high school football team is employed as
recreation director, the funds for his salary be-
ing solicited from welfare organizations con-
nected with the mines and merchants in the
town. The Kiwanis Club provides all the
equipment needed, and the school district fur-
nishes a bus which early in the morning hve days
a week collects groups of boys by districts and
transports them to the flats beyond the mouth
of the canyon Where the Utah Copper Com—
pany has an athletic field. The boys take their
lunch and stay all day. Baseball, tennis, bas-
ketball, football and similar games are played.
Through this program juvenile delinquency
has been greatly reduced.

A Map That is Different -— The American
Civic Association, Inc., 901 Union Trust Build-
ing, Washington, D. C., announces that Frederic
A. Delano, Chairman of the National Capital
Park and Planning Commission and President of
the American Civic Association, has had manu-
factured a handkerchief map of Washington and
the surrounding country which will be sold
throngh the association for the benefit of the
George Washington Memorial Parkway. The
map is printed in six colors, red, blue, green,
plum, brown and terra cotta, on a fine quality of
muslin. It is possible, states the circular issued
by the American Civic Association, that this in-
teresting map will some day be of as great vaIUe
as those early historic maps now in the hands of
the Library of Congress and private collectors.

The maps may be ordered from the American
Civic Association at $1.00 each.

Street Accident Chart—During the months of
June, july, Angust and September, the Lancas—
ter, Pennsylvania, Recreation and Playground As-
sociation kept a record of auto accidents occur-
ring to children of playground age. These were
all taken day by day from the newspapers and
were closely checked. Records were kept on a
white cardboard chart, newspaper clippings being

 

EVERWEAR SAFETY
TO YOUR SWINGS!

The New EverWear Spring-Rubber Safety Seat for
Swings. No. SR-206. (United States and Canadian
Patents Pending) cushions every blow and prevents
serious accidents. It is made of an ingenious ar-
rangement of special, EverWear-designed, fabric-re—
enforced. tougb. springy. long-wearing. tubular. tire
stock rubber, which is so assembled in combination
with spring steel, as to give a soft. springy. resilient.
swing seat of remarkable safety. strength and
durability.

All outside surfaces of the seat are springy rubber:
SAFETY] All top and bottom surfaces are corru-
gated to prevent slipping: SAFETY! All edges are
soft, springy. and resilient: SAFETY! All ends
bend easily under any blow or pressure (but im-
mediately spring back to their normal shape after
the pressure is removed): SAFETY] No metal
parts are exposed where they can become dangerous:
SAFETY] No wood enters its construction: it can-
not warp. split nor splinter: SAFETY! Requires
no painting.

Suspension clevises are reversible. making both sides
of the seat available for use (this feature doubles the
life of the seat): DURABILITY! Rubber tough.
long-wearing tire stock: DURABILITY] Spring
steel is painted to resist rust: DURABILITY]
Built to withstand heavy weights (tested under an
active load of 950 pounds): STRENGTH! Edge-
ways. the seat can be sprung or bent under pressure

or blows (adding further to its SAFETY!) .

Weighs 55% pounds (light for the rugged require-
ments of its service): SAFETY! Priced within
reach of every buyer who values SAFETY on the
playground ($4.50 each. net. f. o. b. Springfield.
Ohio, U. S. A. Price subject to change without
notice): ECONOMY!

Investigate The New EverWear Spring-Rubber
Safety Seat for Swings. Buy them to replace old
swing seats. Specify them for all new swing outfits.

NOW I l
BRING EVERWEAR SAFETY
. . . TO YOUR SWINGS!

Manufactured by

The EverWear Manufacturing Company
Springfield. Ohio. U. S. A.

The World's oldest and largest exclusive maker of play-

ground. beach and pool apparatus: a complete line of the
SAFEST and most DURABLE recreation apparatus made.

209

    

 

2l0 SEZRVICE HELPS

Three New
Playground Plays

The Drama Service of the N. R. A. offers
three new plays for summer playground
use. They are particularly adapted for the
use of children between nine and twelve
years of age.

0 The Crystal Slipper

by MARION HOLBROOK
(from the story of Cinderella)

O The Stolen Tarts
by MABEL F. Hoses

0 The King Who Burned the
Cakes

by MARION HOLBROOK

The cost of each individual play is 5.25. The
set of three plays may be secured for 5.50.

 

pasted in columns and marked with red stars be-
side the written account of the accident. A black
star indicated a fatal accident. The age was also
written in a column beside the clipping.

Although six of the playgrounds were closed
last summer because of lack of funds leaving only
thirteen in operation in July and August, the chart
which showed a great decrease in accidents when
the playground season is in full swing proved that

SUBSCRIBE $1.00 YEAR

THE CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY

A Journal of Community Religion
ththn E. SHIELDS. nip:

How to Unite Churches
Articles by writers of

The Community Church Movement

     
       
   
   
   
   
   
     

 

 

Vital News. Religious Digest

TWICE MONTHLY EXCEPT SUMMER
Published by

THE COMMUNITY CHURCH WORKERS,U.S.A.

77 West Washington Street. Chlcaqe

 

Service Helps

NB OF THE most popular of the playground

devices manufactured exclusively by
Louden is the Junglegym. This statement is
supported by the fact that there have been 600
or more installations in Greater New York, 400
in Chicago and proportionate installations in most
of the country’s metropolitan areas. Its unusual
pOpularity lies in its appeal to the natural play in-
stincts of children to climb, swing and hang the
weight of the body from the arms and legs. An-
other advantage of Junglegym is that it accom-
modates a large number of children at the same
time. Children invent all kinds of games to play
on the Junglegym—games that develop imagina-
tion, initiation, self-reliance, courage, strength
and agility. The supreme test of Junglegym's
powers of endurance and its high degree of
safety along with its popularity was indicated at
“Enchanted Island,” the children’s play paradise
at the Chicago Century of Pr0gress.

The J. E. Porter Corporation of Ottawa, Il-
linois, manufacturers of Louden playground.
gymnasium and pool eQuipment, will be glad to
send on request a special pamphlet illustrating
and describing the four sizes of Junglegym. They
will also be glad to send their new booklet de-
scribing the diversified line of playground. gym-
nasium, beach and pool equipment.

 

The Playground Department of Hartford, Con-
necticut, is using handcraft materials made of
canvas and wool yarns which the children make
into pocketbooks, hand-bags and hot dish holders.
The materials come from the Pepperell Braiding
Company of East Pepperell, Massachusetts. They
are popular with many playgrounds because they
are inexpensive and practical.

cmtdren’s lives are by far safer when they are on
the playgrounds than when they are running
lreely on the streets. The following figures show
graphically one indisputable reason for establish-
ing playgrounds in the motor infested city:

Total accidents for June—26 (1 fatal)

Total accidents for July—11 (Playgrounds
open)

Total accidents for August—II (playgrounds
open)

Total accidents for September—27 (I fatal)

BERNARD THOMAS 211

Bernard Thomas

ERNARD THOMAS, known to his many friends as
“Barney,” died on May Ist. He came to this
country from England forty-three years ago, and
since 1925 had been associated with the Recreation
Bureau of St. Petersburg, Florida, where he served
as director of social recreation and special activi-
ties. Mr. Thomas had charge of the community
sings held every Sunday on the pier. Each week
between 3,000 and 4,000 people gathered to sing
under the leadership of Mr. Thomas who was
often spoken of as “the joyous and happy song
leader who taught St. Petersburg how to sing.”
Of him the St. Petersburg Independent says in an
editorial :
“The death yesterday of Barney Thomas struck
a note of sadness which rang through numberless
homes, not only here but in distant places wher-
ever people lived who visited this city, for Barney’s
job of making people happy by making them sing
also made him an outstanding individual. He is
mourned today by tourists and home folks alike,
by aged folk and children. His versatility touched
all ages and classes. He was a rare person whose
job was his life, and he fitted into it with amazing
perfection. People who knew him, and they are
legion, realize that words inadequately describe
the uniqueness of a man who could with equal
facility charm a crowd of four year old children

or an audience of peOple past seventy, lead a news-3

boy picnic or direct a Rotary Club in song.

“Generous to a fault with his time, cheerful,
witty, a natural, indefatigable leader, singularly
adapted to the work he loved, Barney Thomas
brightened a spot here which will long preserve
his memory.”

A Neglected Language
(Continued from page 173)
an Age of Nero or of Caligula. If, however, we
use it in the direct expression of beauty through
the fine arts, we shall produce an Age of Pericles,
of Raphael, of Shakespeare, Purcell, and Rey-
nolds, or of Bach, Beethoven, and Brahms.

The master genius in sculpture, in painting, or
in architecture, has sprUng only from a race
whose blacksmiths and cutlers embellished their
anvils, their swords, and their knives with bas—
reliefs, whose merchants decdrated their ware-
houses with frescoes, and whose guilds vied with
one another to provide the most beautiful window
or niche in their cathedral. So the great com-

 

 

 

  

BrihiL

SUNSHINE

Keep playgrounds free from dust
with Solvay Calcium Chloride . . .

PROTECTING children at ploy is the aim
of the modern playground. How im-
portant to protect them from the dan-
gers and dirt in dust! It's so easy and
it costs next to nothing.

An application ofSolvoy Floke Calcium
Chloride on grovel or earth surfaces
effectiver ends the dust nuisonce. And
Solvoy Calcium Chloride kills germs.
The photomicrogrophs pictured here
show you the results. 347cu|tures in the
untreated dust. Only 3 in the some dust
treated with Solvoy Calcium Chloride.

Germs
in Dust

Before treatment After treatment

   

Make this o dustless outdoor season
on your playgrounds. Send today For
full information and booklet No.1159.

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION
E... ., Alkolies and Chemical Products Monufoc-
 lured by The Soivoy Process Compony
6] Broadway New York

S 0 LVAY

C H momma

FLAKs—i7%—so% .

 

212 THE PITTSBURGH DAY CAMPS

poser can come only from a people who. not in
formal concerts, but as part of their daily lives.
as naturally as they talk and work and play, ex-
pend a share of their leisure and of their surplus
emotional energy in making music together. The
production of the genius in music is but a by-
product of something far more important—the
re-acquisition by the people themselves of the
neglected language of music.

A Century of Progress through Books
(Continued from page 188)

Teacher meeting of each building. The royal
court assembled and the King read his message to
Parliament. The 'Queen, ably assisted by her
ladies in waiting, conferred the Order of Merit
upon all who had attained the honor of appear-
ing in the Hall of Fame and commended those
who had received honorable mention dUring the
course of the project. She then presented the
diplomas to all who had read ten books. More
than 700 children took part in the project.

The Pittsburgh Day Camps -

(Continued from page 190)
39 round trips from 'South Side Dis-

trict at $7.50 daily . . . . . . . . . . . .. 292.50
29 round trips from Strip District at
$7.50 daily . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 217.50
10 round trips at $10.00 daily . . . . . .. 100.00
——-—-——————$1,370.50
Counrdlor: — Street carfare for
volunteers . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. $ 273.00
Director—Car rental . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$ 15.00
Street carfare . . . . . . . . . . .. 3.50
Car Repairs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.70

Gas and oil, month of July 2172
Gas and oil, month of Aug. 24.96

$ 73.88
SALARIES
2% months—1 director at $100.00 per
month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ 249.99
2% months—8 head counsellors at
$60.00 per month . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,080.00
—$1,329.99
EQUIPMENT

Games, including prizes, whistles, etc..$ 50.65
Handcraft, including material and

 

tools  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .. 210.70
Clean-up, Including soap, towels, etc.. 10.30
First aid  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.15
—$ 275.80
MISCELLANEOUS — (hospital bills,
phone calls, etc.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37.97
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $5,199.80

NOTE: In considering the cost of the day camp
it is important to remember that a considerable
amount of clerical and stcnographic work was
donated by the Federation of Social Agencies and
the local Community Council office secretaries.

Registration Cards

As a result of the summer’s experience it was
suggested that some changes be made in the system
of registration. It was recommended, for example,
that in June each school in the districts served
should turn in the names of the children to go to
camp, together with the specific information
necessary. Some attempt should be made to im-
press upon the referring agencies the importance
of turning in registration slips upon the day they
are due. It was also suggested that the following

registration card be printed for future use:
R£CISTRATION roa PITTSBURGH Dav Cam's

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .District

Name of Applicant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Age . . . . . .

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Color . . . . . . ..

School . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Grade . . . . ..Sex.....

Referring Agency . . . . . . . . . . .Worker's Name . . . . . . . . .

Father’s Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mother’s Name . . . . . . . . . . .

Consent of parent or guardian secured . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Check period desired:
July 2— 7.... July 30—Aug. 3....

" 9—13.... Aug. 6—10.... _ '
" 16—20.... “ 13—17....
“ 23—27.... “ 20-24m-

(Do not write below this fine)

 

 

o o I o o I o o t o o O I I O o o o a o o a o o o o o o o o I I I O O O O O I 0 I I I I a a O O O .0

District Communfty Council
The following was printed on the other side of.

the 6" x 8" card used:

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Park

INTEREST DI SPLAYED
Actfw’ty Mon. Tues. H’rd. Thurs. Fri.

Athletics
Handcraft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nature
Dramati‘cs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Music . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Social Reaction: Good Mixer . . . . . . ..Seclusive . . . . . . ..
Remarks or recommendations:

Medical Examination:
"* Excellent; “ Fair; *Poor

I I I I I 0 0 O I I I I I Q O I I I I I 0 I I I I I I I 0 I I I I I.

C on tumor

I I I I O I I I a O I I O O 0 I I I I I I O a O o t I I I I O a O 00

A Tin Can Carnival

(Continued from page 194)
packed fruit which has been frozen in the can,

sliced, and placed in a bed of lettuce with dress-
ing on top. Red and green cherries, chopped or
whole, placed atop the salad will give an attrac-
tive touch of color. For a larger group a punch
bowl with informal service should be provided.
A serving Cllp of tin can ware would be most ap-
propriate. If the group is small and tables are
used. each should be Centered with a large tin can
flower pot holder containing a plant.

A clever favor, if one wishes to go that far,
would be a tricky c‘an opener that clamps onto the
can and opens it with a few turns of the handle.
Of course we are about to forget, with all these
suggestions. that this is something of a depression

ON NEW HAVEN’S NATURE TRAIL 213

party; or perhaps we are touched by a spirit of
returning optimism and expect our sales and
tickets to cover the overhead and allow a nice
margin! Again, it may be that we are just trying
to be humanistic and bring a little cheer to our
fellowmen with our gifts. Well, again your judg-
ment as well as your sentiment will have to be
consulted. Personally, we prefer sentiment.
May your carnival be a huge success!

On New l-laven's Nature Trail

(Continued from page 197)

where it comes from, the story of the black birch
that gives us wintergreen and of the shagbark,
are all told along the interesting little trek into
New Haven’s virgin wilderness.

By far the most educative part of the trail is
a section in the home stretch where a regular
“what have you learned” questionnaire may be
found. By ingeniously arranged tags questions
concerning the high lights of the nature hiker’s
trip are asked and answered. If one has formed
a wrong conclusion as we bird, a tree or a plant
along the trail, it is immediately cleared up by

these little tags. For instance, if one has gained .

an erroneous impression that the branches of one
type of tree are alternately placed along the trunk
and the branches of another opposite, as are the
human arms, the tags quickly tell the name of
each.

The New Haven Municipal Bird and Nature
Club meets weekly the year round; membership
is open to any one over sixteen years of age. Fre-
quent nature hikes and illustrated lectures are in-
cluded in the club’s pr0gram.

We have a special club house for this organiza—
tion where weekly meetings are held. At these
meetings from half an hour to an hour lecture is
given on birds, trees, wild life or other nature
subjects by authorities on each. Committees have
been formed on each subject so that those inter-
ested especially in trees, wild life and birds may
serve on the committees in which they are inter-
ested. Or if they are interested in all these sub—
jects they may belong to all the committees. We
believe that the membership of this club will in-
crease to thousands and feel it to be one of 'the
best services that we can give the people of New
Haven, for through it we are interesting more citi—
zens in our parks and are gaining increased sup-
port for future developments.

Taken from article “Increased Activities During Times
of Depression,” Parks and Recreation, October 1933.

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

DIAMOND

Install Diamond Pitching Horseshoe courts
on your playground for a popular game
that costs little to maintain. Diamond shoes
and accessories are preferred by players
everywhere. Beginners find Diamond shoes
easy'to pitch and old-timers demand them.
Accurately made—perfectly balanced—
will not crack or chip.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

46|0 GRAND AVENUE DULUTHI MINN.

 

l-low Volunteers Helped in Philadelphia
(Continued from page 199)

tunity they had ever had for decorating, serving
tea, arranging parties, planning refreshments, and
“fixing up” everything to their hearts’ desires.
They made touching pleas, many in letters, that
the place be kept' open during the winter so that
they could go on with these projects, and they
brought in the older girls and women to back them
up. Out of this has grown the Radio Homecraft
Clubs for every -one interested—even the boys,
and there are many of them! The project was
carried on all winter by the director of the Tot
Lot Playground over a local station. It has had
the c00peration of schools, recreation centers, Le—
gion Posts and clubs of all kinds.

We have learned two things from last sum-
mer’s experience. One is that children, especially
older boys and girls, can be used to great ad-
vantage on playgrounds if they are given some de-
gree of responsibility. The other is that volun-
teers may be of immeasurable value if they are
carefully selected from those who have had some
training and experience.

214

SWIMMING POOL DATA
AND REFERENCE ANNUAL

193 4 Edition

(focmeetg Notable .Sr.r:vimrl'.vingF Poole and Guide to
Equipment and Supplies)

Price $2.00

WATER GAMES, WATER STUNTS,

LEGAL DECISIONS, LIABILITY, IN-
SURANCE, POOL DESIGN, POOL SAN-

ITATION, POOL MANAGEMENT, ETC.

Hoffman-Harris, Inc.
llh East 32nd_St. New York City

The Swimming
Badge Tests

0 Are you planning to make the swim-

ming badge tests a part of this summer's.

playground program?

0 For those passing the tests there is an
attractive emblem of white felt embroid-
ered in red which may be secured from the
Association for 25 cents. Certificates also
are available.

0 148 cities have ordered these emblems
and certificates. Is your city one of these?

A free copy of the tests may be secured
from the Association on request

~
4

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue
New York City

 

FROM GAME ROOM TO NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER

From Game Room to Neighborhood
Center

(Continued from page 201)

was 824. In January of this year, still with about
350 children resident in the Homes, the attend-
ance was 6207.

Whatever changes have occurred in the past
five years in the population of the neighborhood
have been in the direction of a slight decrease.
The conclusion seems inescapable that the tre-
mendous increase in attendance at the social cen-
ter is due entirely to an increasing real demand
for such facilities among the residents in the
Homes and the neighborhood. The problem of
the Lavanburg Homes Social Center is'no longer
to prove experimentally whether recreational ac-
tivities are a legitimate and wanted part of a hous-
ing project, but the embarrassing one of finding
room enough to conduct such work adequately.

The Staff

The practical working basis for this program
is an essential part of the story. Obviously, such
work requires a staff. Who are they, and where
do they come from?

From the beginning there has been one paid
director, generally with one or two paid assist-
ants. Beyond this small staff of professionals,
the workers in the center are of two kinds. There
are volunteers, from among the tenants, from
organizations concerned with social work, and
from university students in the city who have
done field work here. A few tenants have earned
a part of their rent by serving in the center.

lty a similar arrangement, almost any housing
project except, perhaps, those under pure private
enterprise, could work out a scheme to staff a
reasonably adequate recreation program. The
greatest obstacle to the development of "social,
recreational, and communal facilities” is not find-
ing the' people to do the necessary work in each
project. It is rather that those responsible for
planning. effective ways to use Public \Vorks
funds may not appreciate in time how important
a part of the whole housing problem the question
of communal facilities is. The moral of the
Lavanburg Homes experience seems to be that if
a hundred families are given the space to play
in, they will find the means for using it. But they
must have the space.

New Books in the Leisure Time Field

A Guide to Civilized Loafing

By H. A. Overstreet. \V. \V. Norton and Company,
Inc., New York. $2.00.

A TRULY DELIGHTFUI. book, this handbook on the art '

of living, whidh makes the adventure of leisure
a very fascinating one. A few of the chapter headings
give a hint of the pleasure in store for one who reads
this book: The Fun of Handling Materials; Being
Social; Being Alone; Adventuring with Thought; En-
joying Where We Are; We Go \Vandering; Taking
Some Things Seriously, and Just Fooling Around.

Pod and Pencil Puzzles

By Gladys Lloyd. Thomas Y. Crowell Company, New
York. $1.00.
0R THOSE who enjoy having their minds challenged
by the elusive puzzle here are forty pad and pencil
puzzles, including missing words, abbreviations, incom-
plete sentences and other 'brain teasing devices—some
easy, others more difficult. A combination of puzzles
will make a progressive pencil and paper party.

The Paid Worker. Plus the Volunteer

in Music

By C. M. Tremaine. National Bureau for the Advance-
ment of Music, 45 West 45th Street, New York.

POINTING our that there never will be enough money

available to take care of even a small percentage
of the need for leadership in educational, social and rec-
reational activities. Mr. Tremaine urges the use of vol-
unteers in the leisure time program and cites the value
of the services such volunteers can give. While he em-
phasizes the need for volunteer leaders in the field of
music, Mr. Tremaine’s presentation will be of interest
t') workers in all fields of civic endeavor. The pamphlet
also tells of the work of the National Bureau for the
Advancement of Music and of the service it renders. This
booklet is available free to directors of organizations.

Enjoy Your Museum

Edited by Carl Thurston. Esto Publishing Company,
Pasadena, California. $.10 each.

ERE IS an interesting series of eight pamphlets de-

signed to help pe0p1e who are looking at works of
art or at reproductions of them to get more pleasure from
them. They. have the advantage of being simple, direct
and practical, and inexpensive. The subjects with which
they deal are painting, water colors, prints, etchings,
pottery and porcelain, H0pi pottery, Navajo rugs, and
sculpture.

Toward Fuller Living Through Public

Housing and Leisure Time Activities

By Abraham Goldfeld. The National Public Housing
Conference, 112 East 19th Street, New York. $.25.
N THIS booklet Abraham ~Goldfeld, Executive Director,
Lavanburg Foundation, presents a study of the social,

recreational and educational activities carried on in five

of the better known housing projects in the New York
metropolitan area. These include Sunnyside, Radburn,

New Jersey, the Lavanburg Homes, the Dunbar Apart-

ments—a Negro housing project, and the Amalgamated

Houses. Mr. Goldfel-d makes a strong plea for the pro-

vision of recreational activities. “In the future the suc-

cess of the public housing movement will Ibe measured
chicfiy on the basis of its contribution toward making
human life happier and richer. Fruitful and satisfying
use of leisure time is one of the ways to be happy.
Public 'housing bodies therefore cannot fail to take this

splendid opportunity to include in their plans facilities
for leisure time activities.”

Working Together For Highway and

Community Beautification

By Ernestine Perry. walished by National Highway

Beautification Council, 60 Sherman Street, Springfield,
Massachusetts. $1.00.

HIS PAMPHLET discusses a subject which is becoming

increasingly important as people are awakening to the
need for safety and beauty along our highways. State
departments, the press, organizations and individuals are
now demanding good-looking roads as well as good
roads. The Federal government has recognized this de-
mand by permitting Federal road aid funds to be used
for planting trees along Federal aid highways. Trhe
pamphlet tells of projects which have been initiated, sug-
gests methods of organizing highway beautification con-

tests, and offers sources of information.

Gymnastics, Tumbling and Pyramids

By J. H. McCulloch, A.M. \V. B. Saunders Company,
Philadelphia. $2.00.
THROUGH DIRECTIONS given in this book the student is
led into the practical study of gymnastics, tumbling
and pyramids: Tumbling stunts are concisely described
and clearly visualized by step—‘by-step pictures. Instruc-
tion is given in the use of a number of pieces of gymnas-
tic apparatus, and pyramids and their construction are
covered in an unusually interesting section describing
the formation of many pyramid groups requiring from

three to twenty students. There are 265 illustrations in
the book.

215

216 NEW BOOKS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

The Planning and Construction of School Buildings.

Edited by Guy Montrose W'hipple. Public School
Publishing Company, Bloomington, lllinois, $1.75
paper bound: $2.50 cloth bound.

The thirty-third Yearbook (Part I) of thc National
Society for the Study of Education is devoted to the
planning and eonstruction of sehool buildings, and is the
work of a eonnnittee of educators of which Professor
N. L. Engelhardt of Teachers College, Columbia Univer-
sity. is Chairman. The report is divided into six sections:
1. The Philosophy of the School Plant; II, School-Plant
Planning Polieies: lll. Edueational Services: 1V, Ar-
chitectural Scrviees: V. Construetional Serviee. and VI.
Finaneial Aspects'of the Problem.

Care and Feeding of Hobby Horses.

By Ernest Elmo Calkins. Léisure Leaguc of Amer-
ica, 30 Rockefeller Plaza. New York. $25.

A delightful booklet by one who has found the secret
of spending his time ioyously. “\Vhatever you do with
that spare time of yours." says Mr. Calkins. "it should
be something that gives you keen delight. If it doesn’t.
then it is not a hobby—at least for you. You have guessed
wrong and should begin all over again.”

Mr. Calkins under the classifications "The Things You
Might Do,” “Doing Things,” "Making Things.” and
"Acquiring Things." suggests how to avoid making mis-
takes in choosing hobbies. The booklet contains a eom-
prchcnsive bibliography.

The Way of Understanding.

By Sarah L0uise Arnold. Foreword by Lou Henry
Hoover. Girl Scouts, lne., New York. $.50.

In 1925 Sarah Louise Arnold was elected president of
Girl Scouts, lne., and scrved until 1928 when she becamc
honorary vice-president. in this booklet Miss Arnold,
who has written many books during her career as an edu-
eator, has brought together thc talks she has given Girl
Scouts at conventions of leaders or rallies of girls. They
are full of homely wisdom and human interest. and have
mueh to offer every leader of young people as well as the
young peeple themselves.

Books of General Interest for Today’s Readers.

Compiled by Doris Hoit. Availablc from American
Library Association, 520 North Michigan Avcnue.
Chicago, Illinois. $.25.

This annotated list of nine hundred readable books
suitable for use in C. C. C. eamps, classes conducted with
C. W. A. funds and other educational activities being car-
ried on by the government and other agcncies. was com-
piled at the New York Public Library under the anspiees
of the American Library Association and the American
Association for Adult Education. in co-Operation with
the United States Office of Education.

Character Education in Sovlet Russia.

Edited by \Villiam Clark Trow. Translation by Paul
D. Kalachov. Ann Arbor Press. Ann Arbor, Michi-
gan. $1.25.

The step recently taken b the United States govern-
ment in recognizing the U.  S. R. makes it increasingly
important that the American peOple understand some-
thing of the educational and recreational forces at work
in Russia, as well as the economic. This interesting book
dcals primarily with the Young Pioneer Organization for
children and youth whose prime object is "political"—
to make citizens. A second objective is social knowledge
and participation in the economic construction of the
country. A third is cultural and recreational. “Games
are played: motion pictures, theatres and eoncerts are
attended: picture galleries and museums are visited;
group songs. hikes and physical exercises have their
place. looks are read and discussed. Radio sets are
constructed. and so on through the list of things ehildreu
and young people like to do."

This book cannot fail to be of interest to recreation
workers and to all leaders of youth in America.

Education in the Recovery Program.

Ofliee of Edueation. U. S. Department of the ln-
tertor. Government Printing Ofliee, “'ashington.

D. C. $.10.

In this booklet. a reprint from School Life. Dr. George

F. Zook. Commissioner of Education, summarizes the
extent of .the impact of the national recovery program
on education and gives a panoramic view of education

.as it is in the recovery program today. New Federal

agencies are described. the F. E. R. A. education pro-
gram is outlined. facts are given about the program in
aetion and the Emergency Nursery Schools. and there
ts ,tnformation about the educational program of the
C. C. C. eamps and public works for public sehools.

Mobilizing Unemployed Rural
Young People for Growth.

Southern “’oman’s Educational Alliance. 401-2 Graee-
Ameriean Building. Richmond. Virginia. $.25.

Constructive programs of study and activity are sug-
gested. in this mimeogranhed bulletin. to rural eommuni-
ties and countics and to interested groups. agencies. insti-
tutions and individuals. Not only programs and sourees
of help are given but the services of the Alliance are
outlincd. The Alliance has also published a number of
inexpensive mimeographed bulletins of interest to rural
leaders and an informal magazine. "Growing in the
Emcrgeney." issued at six ccnts a copy.

1000 and One.

The Blue Book of Non-Theatrieal Films. The Edu-
cational Screen, Chicago. Ill. $.75.

The tenth edition of this list of films is carefully elassi-
fled. and information is given which will help the pros-
pective user in making his choice. in knowing where to
secure the films and in obtaining the technical informa-
tion necessary.

 

 

Officers and DireCtors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ossrn Lac, President

om: H. Ftnur. First Vice-President
out: G. Wnuutr. Second Vice-President.
osnr Gassnr, Third Vice-President
Gusravus T. Ktssr. Treasurer
ilownn 5. Duncan. Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mas. Eowno W. Bloou Carfisle. Pa.
WILtast Bussnwosrn. Moline, Ill.
Cussncs M. Cums, Philadelphia. Pa.
fisssr L. Cosssrr. Portland. Ore.
Mas. Asrttus G. Cuuuas, Jacksonville. Fla.
F. Tsusss sttsmr. Locust Valle . L. I.. N. Y.
Mn. Tums“ A. Eolson, West range. N. J.
our if. Ftntsr. New York. N. Y.

lvcn Fauna, New York, N. Y.
Rosnr GAIIITT. Baltimore. Md.
Ausrtx E. Gstrrlrns, Seattle. Wash.
thuut “ALI flasxnsss. New York. N. Y.
CHAILII throw, New York. N. Y.
Mus. Cunt." V. fitcsox, Michigan City, Ind.
Mn. Fauna osLscr flrtn‘7 Plaintield, N. J.
GUITAVUI T. Kt!" New \ork. N. Y.
fl. McK. Larson, Indians lis. ind.
Mn. Cunt.” D. faunas. reenwich, Coon.
Roassr Luau-n. Charlotte. N. C.

ossrn Las. Boston. Mass.

-Dwaso 1-2.. Looms. New York N. Y.
J. n. McCosor, Springfield. sin...
0110 T. MaLLaaY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALT" A. MAY. Pittsburgh. Pa.
CAIL E. MILLtttm, Au unis. Me.

.‘tlss Oooan L. Mun, Yoodbury. N. Y.
Mat. nus W. Wmswosrn, Js., Washington. D. C.
. C. 'Aun New York. N. Y.

srosstcx  Wassusc. New York. N. Y.
{fun G. thaxr, Concord, N. fl.
. ss. WILLuu f'l. Wooont. 1a., Tueson. Aria.

