10.

y 11.

Certain Basic Assumptions Underlying the
Work of the National Recreation Association

. Life grows by action. It is through expression. through wholehearted investment of their ener-

gies and talents that people become and continue to be buoyantly alive. The law of life is that
it shall be saved by expenditure.

. Since workers are less and less finding an outlet in industry for the adventurous and creative spirit

they must increasingly learn to find that outlet in leisure time.

. Particularly. in our complex and changing age. mental health and integration of personality

demand participation and a pouring out of creative energy.

"

. Play is that activity which is interesting and satisfying in itself. It is under the warm motiva-

tion of play impulses that the highest creative skills are incubated and born. These skills have a
value not only in the play life but carry over into what we customarily consider the more seri-
ous and difiicult aspects of life—home life, civic enterprise and industrial activities.

. Morality involves purpose, choice. planning. These are characteristic of the freedom of leisure.

Thus leisure affords tremendous character opportunity. The good life is characterized by rich
and growing interests and satisfactions. Freedom. too. is associated with growing powers. In-
creased skill brings new powers. new controls. and leads to greater freedom.

. Participation rather than vicarious experience is important in the realization of these values.

. Participation in group activities trains in citizenship. The development of enjoyed play and rec-

reational Opportunities and activities can be an integral part of the deve10pment of community
loyalty.

. Appreciations are concomitants of participation. Those who are skilled in activities are more

likely to appreciate real values. standards. skills and beauty.

Leadership is of primary importance. The leader must understand pe0ple. their desires. needs.
and possibilities. He must himself possess skills or know how to secure the services of leaders
representing a great variety of skills for teaching. guiding. directing. He also must be an indi-
vidual of well—rounded personality and upright character. with power to influence character and
personality in both children and adults.

A community program for recreation must include the discovery of potential interests. talents
and skills. training and education in the creative use of leisure. and a wide variety of Opportuni-
ties to serve the multitudinous interests—physical. social. musical. dramatic. nature. etc.———of dif-
ferent individuals.

Government. the collective agency of the people. is responsible for fostering and administering
such a rich program of leisure time Opportunity. With the expenses borne by the taxpayer there
can be deve10ped democratic opportunity for all to participate in a variety of desirable and re-
warding activities. Such democratic provision of enriching experience to all of its citizens will
help to deve10p loyalty toward the democratic community.

JOSEPH LEE.

 

I OCTOBER, 1934

 

313

The Backyard Playground

The backyard playground movement in
Seattle, Washington, was initiated in
IQZQ, under the auspices of the Seattle
Council of Preschool Associations. At
that time 363 yards were entered in the
contest. In I933, 3502 bockyards con-
tested For honors and Mayor John Dore
officially proclaimed April as Backyard

 

Playground month. Open house was held
in various prize winning yards For two
consecutive days so thot Seattle citizens
might inspect them.

What Seattle, Los Angeles and other
cities are doirg, your city, too, can do.
Why not ioin the list of cities which
are making their backyards Famous?

Play Together
and

Stay Together
in Your Own

Backyard!

OUR Lds ANGELES families,
F who have discovered the

key to real happiness and
home solidarity in their own
backyards, are proudly dis-
playing to neighbors and
friends the championship certificates which they
have been awarded as winners in the city—wide
backyard playground building contest just con—
cluded under direction of the Los Angeles Parent-
Teacher Association and the Los Angeles Play-
ground and Recreation Department. The contest,
which started a precedent last year, attracted even
more attention and brought about a more wide-
spread response this season than before.

Greater public leisure, which has been one of
the direct results of changing industrial condi-
tions, has caused many a family to think seriously
about developing a program of recreation which
would enable its individual members to enjoy the
things they like the most and at the same time
spend more hours in each other’s company. The
lowly backyard, once considered only as a catch-
all for odds and ends, with perhaps a few flowers
and lawn spaces to prevent it from being a total
aesthetic loss, really came
into its own in many homes
in Los Angeles as a result of
the contest.

Parents, thinking about
ways and means of making
their y a r d s attractive, not
only to their children but also
to their young people of high
school and college age and to

Play Together, Stay Together,’

In the June 1933 issue of RECREATION
we published the story of the first
backyard playground eontest eon-
dueted by the Los Angeles Play-
ground and Recreation Department.
Through the courtesy of Glen 0.
Grant and Samuel Friedman we are

able to present an account of the see-
ond year’s contest which was even
more sueeessful than the first.

 

This inviting playhouse is only a part
of the equipment provided for $5.00.

older folks' as well, planned thoughtfully and
wrought ingeniously to make of the home en-
closure a really attractive recreation center, and as
a result of this planning many backyards in the
Los Angeles area were transformed into places
not only of artistic beauty but also of a high de-
gree of usefulness—places where members of
families will spend many happy playtime hours in
each other’s society.

Adopting the concise slogan. “Families That
’ members of the
Parent-Teacher organization in Los Angeles took
up the contest enthusiastically with the coopera-
tion of municipal Playground and Recreation De-
partment officials, and gave the plan widespread
publicity among Parent-Teacher Association mem-
bers. Fathers’ Councils were particularly active
in spreading the news about
the contest and in interesting
many parents in building and
developing their own home
play centers.

The contest was divided
into four classifications in
order to provide a fair basis
of competition for all fami-
lies regardless of their finan-

315

{1... 1’1 .11' lUu’E‘INE/t’ .J.\D STAY TOGETHER IN I UL'R UHVA BACK} JRD ,-

 

Much can be done with an expenditure

‘ctitiun which roallv chalk-.11 wd the invenuir of
0F $I5.00, as this playground proves. I d 35 h )

muse who entered. Discarle bit; of lumber, nld

autumnhilv tires. nld automobile “£01159 plan-9, tin

' i711 Fimati' 011. "17 U105" {MW CIHSRCS thf‘ mmt cans, broom hamllts. gas and water pipes. barrel
#111131“, mtnrulk. was that Hf backyard 1‘13}

4:: .unr'.-.lmilt with nu 'ash expenditure ml] the

mu at 'h. if r wnrre “l I" we; a 'liviainn nf cum- The Winn" °F the "°'C°5t P'aygm‘fnd
expended no money, but much ingenuity.

 

PLAY TOGETHER AND STAY TOGETHER IN YOUR OWN BACKYARD ." 317

hoops, and in fact all imaginable kinds of “junk”
were dragged out and put to use in building the
home recreation centers. Among the types of fa-
cilities which were built with these odds and ends,
were swings and slides, seesaws, sand boxes for
small children, miniature ‘golf courses, basketball
practice courts, and a large variety of equipment
for other games and sports.

In two of the remaining classes, entries were
limited to an expenditure of $5.00 and $15.00 re-
spectively, and contest judges were surprised at
the large number and variety of yard and garden
games and sports which were provided with this
very small outlay of cash, supported by a very
large application of planning, manual skill, and in-
genuity. In the fourth class no limit was placed
upon the amount which parents could spend in
developing their backyards, and as a result this di-
vision of the contest produced many beautiful and
splendidly equipped home playground centers.

At the conclusion of the contest, during the lat-
ter part of April, neighborhood
judging committees composed of
one representative each of the
P. T. A. grou])s, the municipal

The prize winner in the unlimited
class was this splendidly equip-
ped playground which cost $75.00.

playgrounds, and the city schools, visited every
backyard entered in the competition and selected
the best one in the neighborhood. These local
winners were then carefully surveyed by the city-
wide judging committee and final awards were
made on the basis of the committee’s report.

After weeks of careful judging, in which back-
yard playgrounds built by scores of families in all
sections of the city were inspected, the four win-
ners were selected—one each in the four classes
of competition. They were adjudged to have de-
veloped the finest all—round recreation centers in
their yards for the use of their children, their
friends, and themselves, within the limits estab-
lished for each class.

The Mortons’ backyard, winner in the no-cost
division of the contest, provides a striking exam-
ple of what any householder may accomplish for
his family without a cent of money in expendi-
ture. By the exercise of patience and ingenuity,
in the course of about a year, this family has de-
veloped the home enclosure into
an attractive center where happy
leisure time hours are spent in

(Continued on page 355)

 

Citizens on Trial!

ALAMAZOO, .MICHIGAN,
K adopted a novel way of
acquainting the community with the leisure
time needs of its young people when, last spring,
it held in the municipal court room a trial of the
case of the young men and women of the city
against the citizens of Kalamazoo. A prominent
clergyman acted as judge of the court; five wit-
nesses presented the results of a recreation sur-
vey; the jury asked questions and deliberated;
summonses were issued to people whose attend-
ance was important, and a general invitation to
attend was published in the newspaper.

First, a Study

The trial was the result of a survey, which in
turn was the result of the organization, three
years ago, of the Recreation Council made up of
representatives of all organizations engaged in
recreation work in the city, including the Depart-
ment of Recreation, the Physical Education De-
partment of the schools, the Y. M. C.A., the
Y. \V. C. A., the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Dou-
glas Center, \Vestern State Teachers College, and
Kalamazoo College. The study was concerned
mainly with what was already being done and
what needs were evident. It was made by mem-
bers of the Recreation Council who used the form
supplied by the National Recreation Association.
lnformation was presented under four headings:
( I) What the City Recreation Department was
doing; (2) \V hat the Board of Education was do-
ing; (3) What the churches were doing, and (4)
\\’hat the library, art institute, symphony orches-
tra and community were do-
ing. Recreation was broadly
defined as “physical, mental.
social and creative activity
which refreshes and helps
the individual to live more
fully."

The results of the survey
were presented to the court
by the five witnesses who
divided the subject into the
following headings: History

318

By WILLIAM G. ROBINSON

Our readers are familiar, through
articles in the magazine. with the
public hearings on recreation held in
New York City and Philadelphia.
Kalamazoo. .‘liehigan, has joined the
roster of cities using this interesting
method of bringing recreational needs
to the attention of their citizens. .Vlr.
liohinson, a distriet representative of
the National lieercation Association.
tells in this article how it was done
in Kalamazoo. and cites the results.

of the survey; location of cen-
ters; cost of recreation; op-
portunities for all, and large versus small group
activities. Severe indictments were offered be-
cause of the fact that there were only five tennis
courts available to the public; that there were no
play areas lighted for evening play; that inex-
pensive places for dancing under proper condi-
tions were lacking; that there were only two or-
ganizations in the city which provided oppor-
tunity for the development of musical or dra-
matic ability, and these had higher standards of
ability than the average young man or woman has,
and that certain sections of the city were especially
lacking in leisure time opportunities.

The Court Passes Judgment

The judgment of the court was that the recrea-
tion agencies of the city and its various social
agencies had not been made available to as great
an extent as they might under a revised plan.
Accordingly, it was the further judgment of the
court that a committee known as community rec-
reation representatives be organized to formulate
and execute a plan to increase recreational op-
portunities for young men and women. This com-
mittee is composed of two representatives from
each section of the city, and sub-committees are
being formed in each division. The general com-
mittee is preparing a long list of volunteers ready
to give advice and training in various recreation
and hobby activities. and an ERA project is sup-

plementing the professional leadership of the exist-

ing agencies. The central committee has also sug-
gested procedure for the dis-
trict groups, stressing the im-
portance of having represen-
tative young people taking
part in the plans; it has listed
the existing agencies and
suggested neighborhood pro-
jCCIs.
Results Secured

Two more summer play-

grounds under city super-
(Continua! on page 3.46)

Why Not Give

the

Girl a Chance?

By DORA DODGE

Director

Worcester Girls Club

" ELLO,” came a voice over the tele-
phone. “Is this the director of the
\Vorcester Girls Club? This is

Miss Brown of X Street School speaking, I am

sending a little girl to your Vernon Hill Branch

club; I’m paying her way myself and I do hope
she-will stay until she becomes interested. Her
name is Mary Ellis.”

“Thank you for letting me know,” answered
the director, “I’ll have a leader on the lookout
for her and we’ll do our best.”

Later the leader was asked if Mary had arrived.
“Yes,” she answered, “and she is pathetic. So
shy, she kept her head down and whispered the
answers to questions when I was registering. She
looked about as neglected as any little girl we ever
had.” “Please report to me if she doesn’t attend
regularly,” requested the director, and then she
let the matter drop, because only very outstand—
ing cases may have special attention when you are
planning for 1800 girls on an extremely small
budget.

About three months later the leader came into
the office, “I think we should find out more about
Mary Ellis. So much has happened to her since
she came into the club.” “Just what has happened
to her?” asked the director. “She has found her-
self; she is no longer afraid. For a long time now
she has taken for granted that the rest of the
girls want her in the games. She hung back so at
first we had to draw her in, but today I was so
surprised when the girls selected her as a team
captain for the tournament, and when they chose

 

Isn't it time to consider the need of training
these potential mothers in the art of living?

their emblem she had such a good idea that it
carried.” “Might be a human interest story,” said
the director thoughtfully and she took up the re-
ceiver of the telephone to call X Street School.
Of Miss Brown she asked, “Do you remember
sending us Mary Ellis? Would you mind telling
me just why you wanted her to join the club?”

Then Miss Brown told the story. Never in her
years of teaching had she seen a transfer card of
any child quite full of addresses until Mary’s
came to her. For Mary’s mother was an unde-
sirable neighbor and she had been evicted from
so many tenements that life to her family had
become just one move after another. Mary’s
brothers and sisters had given up study long ago.
What is the use of marks when you never stay
long enough with any teacher to know what it is
all about? Somehow Mary was different, she had
shown a fair average in spite of her nomadic
schooling and the principal became interested. But
it was when in the course of questioning she asked
Mary about her friends and received the answer,
“I ain’t got any; I never have time to know any
we move so much,” that Miss Brown became
determined Mary should have the chance she
knows belongs to every member of the Worcester
Girls Club, that of a friendly sharing of happy
activities.

319

320

The director wrote the story and put it into
the file along with many Others to be used for
publicity purposes. A second time she considered
tue incident closed, but a few weeks later Miss
Brown’s voice again came over the phone, “I
.(new you'd be interested and sorry," she said,
“to know you're losing Mary. Trouble with the
landlord again and they are moving two miles out
on the other side of the city. If it’s any comfort
to know, we have all noticed how much the club
has done for her.”

Now comes the interesting part of the story.
The club did not lose Mary for Mary would not
relinquish the club. She walked the two miles on
club nights arriving a little late but glowing. At
first she tried to bring other girls with her but
they found the walk too long. Still for two years
Mary persisted. “She is a real leader,” the gym-
nasium leader reports, “but in a quiet way. If
ever a girl misses the steps of the dance or the
rules of the game because she has been absent,
Mary is sure to get her into a corner and teach
her before we do it again.” And the director
wonders what might have happened to this po-
tential leadership if it had found a less favorable
outlet.

Over 1800 girls are finding friendship and op-
portunities each year in the \Vorcester Girls
Club. The sponsors of the organization aim de-
finitely to serve the really underprivileged girls
of the city. They realize that if a fair propor-
tion of them is to be reached it must be done by
offering opportunities to large groups at a time.
There seems no way of furnishing enOUgh lead-
ership to serve the mass of little girls from the
poorest homes of our great cities, if we cling to
the idea that they must be handled in small groups
where individual work can be done. There is
never enough money to pay the necessary num-
ber of leaders and the best of volunteer leadership
is uncertain and shifting. The harm done by
starts and stops in girls work has been too often
demonstrated.

Fundamental Facts

Faced with the problem of developing the pro-
gram on a very small budget we took certain facts
into consideration:

I. The program must be attractive, offering to differ-
ent groups a variety of things they really want to do,
rather than what any adult group may think they ought
to do.

2. There must be a plan of character building back of
the program. Unless standards are actually raised and

WHY NOT GIVE THE GIRL A CHANCE?

forces of good sent out into the community there is no
real excuse for using community money.

3. There must be dues, for part of the training must
be to develop business sense and a satisfaction which
comes from paying one’s way, but these dues must be
kept so low as to insure a membership of those most
needing the program. '

4. Most diflicult and most necessary of all there must
he only excellent leadership. Recalling the story of the
Bishop who asked three workmen what they were doing
and received the characteristic answers—“working for
$3.50 a day,” “cutting stone" and "helping to build a
beautiful Cathedral," the director has determined that the
task is too delicate to risk in the hands of anyone who
is working for money alone. Stone cutters may be
trusted only so long as they prove they are getting the
picture. But the test of leadership for that most precious
material in any community, it‘s potential motherhood,
must be whether or not the vision of the goal is con-
stantly before the worker.

5. The work must be limited to the actual support of
the community. It’s success must not tempt us to spread
out beyond the point of actual service. Too often girls
work has been spoiled because the need is so great and
the support so meager.

The Program DeveIOps

Slowly the program has been developing, not
to perfection, because it reached its limitations all
too soon, but at least to a gratifying success. Pos-
sibilities for experimenting have been great and
we are constantly making interesting discoveries,
but on the whole it has been a common sense ar-
rangement of activities giving opportunity for the
different age groups of girls to play at what they
most desire. Training in any subject is not em-
phasized so much as the fun to be derived by par-
ticipation. \\'e do not coach plays for perfect pro-
duction. but instead we play at dramatics and in-
cidentally learn much of stage technique while we
are very young. Then credible performances are
given at our Saturday Open House periods by
dramatic groups simply because we suddenly dis-
cover the play is ready for production. It has
grown out of our fun and must be used to amuse
some one else. Each year the girls in the older
groups want to tackle more difficult plays. We are
looking forward to the time when a Little Thea-
ter grOUp will develop in our Senior Department.
Already the demand for it is coming from the
girls who have learned by participation what it is
all about. The support must soon follow.

“If you are going to degrade the profession of
nursing by making a game of it, I am not inter-
ested,” said the first nurse we approached. But
we found a Red Cross nurse who was the mother
of two little girls, “What a lovely idea,” she said
when we described what we wanted, and she has
marle a game of Home Nursing and Personal
llygiene that will carry over into many a home of

l
i
I

lVHY NOT GIVE THE GIRL A CHANCE? 321

the future. For a few girls will earnestly work
for a Red Cross diploma and pin, but many girls
will be discouraged early in the game and decide
it is too much like school. Yet these same little
girls will play (1011 with you and keep house and
tend a sick patient in bed with tremendous ear-
nestness. No child can attend one period of this
play without gaining something. And who knows
how much one lesson learned may affect a home
of sordid surroundings?

The writer once called on a mother who had
lost all sense of beauty and interest in her home,
if indeed she ever had any. In a squalid, smelly,
unkempt kitchen with chairs and sills piled high
with miscellaneous articles, stood a plain deal
table in the center of which was a newspaper cen—
terpiece torn in attractive design to resemble lace.
On it were a ten cent bowl and one lily bulb.
“The teacher told Anna you always ought to keep
one beautiful thing in the middle of the table
where you eat. So she insists on keeping that
there in the way,” the mother complained. And
the writer left that home with a prayer in her
heart that the little girl might hold the vision of
one beautiful thing until she proved that desire
for beauty can overcome ugliness.

Group Divisions

The girls are divided into age groups and each
group alloted One afternoon a week for activities.
Each girl spends one period in the gymnasium
and one period in some other activity which she
may choose. The program which follows does
not include all we would like to put into it, but
the activities which have
proved successful in
holding large groups:

For Girls 6-7 and 8
Years of Age. Gym-
nasium rhythms, singing
games and simple dances,
balance beam, bar work
and tumbling, and a
choice of handcraft or
story dramatization. The
girls up to 7% years sim—

Handcraft is an indis-
pensable item in the

program of the Wor-
cester Girls Club.

ply play stories which have been read to them the
week before. Sometimes costumes are used to in—
crease the interest, and simple stage directions are
practiced in the acting of all stories until they ac—
quire-the habit of an imaginary audience. The
older group act plays, make scenery and use cos-
tumes. Some of the better plays are produced at
the Saturday open house periods.

For Girls 9 and 10 Years of Age. Gymnasium
marching, tumbling, balance beam and bar, folk
dancing, singing games and relay races. Choice
of handcraft, percussion band, music appreciation
and chorus work.

For Girls 11 and 12 Years of Age. Gymna—
sium marching, tumbling, folk dancing, simple tap
dancing, lower organized games calling for team
work, tournaments and team emblems, play a
large part in the gymnasium program for this age.
Choice of handcraft, woodwork, home nursing,
puppetry and dramatics.

For Girls 13-14 and 15 Years of Age. Gym-

nasium marching, tap and natural dancing, mat
work for those who choose it, team games, be—
ginning volley ball and basketball. Because of
large groups we have little chance for basketball
but every girl has an opportunity to know the
game and have combination games for practice.
Choice of handcraft, dramatics, music (presenta—
tion of operetta).

The High School Club. Our next group is
for girls 15 and over who can come to the even-
ing high school clubs. Two evenings are given
to these girls. W'hile it is primarily a high school
club any girl may stay in it until she is 17 when,

 

322 l-VH)’ NOT GIVE THE GIRL A CHANCE?

if she is out of school, we encourage her to join
the senior department. High school girls may
stay until after graduation. or may join the senior
department any time after 16 years. Definite age
limits after 15 years have proved to be barriers
so we try to consider individual cases in placing
girls between the ages of 16 and 20.

Social Dance Classes

The program consists of gymnasium, knitting,
drainatics, Emily Post Club, newspaper club and
social dancing classes. The development of the
social dance classes and the Saturday evening
dance club has been especially interesting. This
is one of the few places in the program where in-
struction has been stressed more than enjoyment
of participation. The procedure has been as fol-
lows: When a member is 15 years old she may
place as many boys’ names as she wishes on our
boys list. These boys never know who gave their
names, but are invited to join a dance class, either
beginners or advanced as the case may be. Boys
who know of the list sign their own names if they
wish. Classes are limited to 120, 60 boys and 60
girls. The fee is 35 cents for six lessons and must
be paid in advance. All girls muSt be club mem-
bers. The boys are mostly brothers and acquain-
tances of the girls.

These young people are taught not only social
dancing in good form but the etiquette of mixing
together in their own age groups which will help
them to feel sure of themselves and to overcome
a tendency for boldness and impertinance that is
often only a shell to hide natural shyness. For
instance, we do not find it hard to substitute
"May I have this dance" for the dance hall jar-
gon of “How about it?" and “Come on, let’s go.”
Girls and boys have actually thanked us for tell-
ing them what to say to the hostess in leaving
and so relieve the awkward moment when they
want to “duck and run." Boys have learned that
it does make a difference if they wear a coat, col-
lar and tie instead of a sweater. Girls do not
have time to get silly and self conscious because
they are too busy learning the steps and the large
groups of miscellaneous young people soon be-
come friendly social families.

If no one takes the trouble to teach the very
simple but necessary fundamentals of mixing to-
gether, and we leave them to learn to dance in
commercial dance halls. it is not the fault of the
younger generation if they appear crude. When
we have once gained the confidence of these boys

and girls together in our social dance classes, we
have opened up new avenues of approach for
other training.

The last lesson in the series of the advanced
course is in the form of a party where refresh-
ments are served. A committee of boys and girls,
together with the dance instructor, plan the party.
\Vhile the lesson is in the fortn of a party it is
planned especially to instruct the members how to
behave when refreshments are served. This in-
struction we have discovered very necessary since
we have found all too often that the too-lately-
acquired manners slip badly when food is an-
nounced. It is always a bit discouraging to see
how quickly an orderly party can turn into a mob
riot at the smell of food. However, some of the
most troublesome members have been known to
turn into the most helpful when they once have
been made to realize how it should be done.

All boys and girls who have finished an ad-
vanced dance course are given membership cards
to the Saturday evening dance club. There is no
other way of obtaining a membership into this
club, though guests may attend once in a season
if they arrange for it through a member before
noon on Saturday. They pay an extra small fee.
The fee for dance club members is ten cents a
night, and fifteen cents for extra parties such as
Hallowe’en, Christmas and Valentine parties
when refreshments are served. These parties are
planned and carried out by committees of boys
and girls working with the dance instructor, who
is a most unusual woman with excellent leader-
ship qualities. \Ve also use two volunteer work-
ers a night to check the young people in, because
we keep name files and a reCOrd of the attend-
ance of each boy as well as each girl.

Certain facts about the dances and dance
courses are interesting. In almost every dance
class the registration for boys has to be closed
first and we turn away dozens of disappointed
boys from each course. we keep their names and
they are always invited into the next course. At-
tendance of boys at dances is usually larger than
that of girls. in spite of the fact that dances are
also being conducted at the Boys Clubs in the
city.

lloys help us to hold a high standard often re-
porting to us any infringement on rules. \Vhen
we thanked one boy for doing this he remarked.
"It wouldn't take long to spoil it all, and it's the
only place I like to take my girl." Girls who have
not been members long do not fit well with girls

II

 

“Kw

 

C om-teJy German College of Physical Education

who have grown up through our program even
though they are apparently of the same home
background. No effort on our part can hold them
in the club. Boys have tried to bring their sisters,
and while the boys have stayed the girls have not
been happy. Yet the boys give as their reason for
coming that they like the kind of girls they be-
come acquainted with at the club house. This has
demonstrated clearly to us the value of the club
training and environment on the lives of little
girls. \Ve have said very little about grotesque
dancing positions in the dance club though the
need was great in the beginning. We taught cor-
rect dancing positions in the classes and stressed
the importance of learning to dance correctly. As
the class members fed into the club the poor posi-
tions began to disappear. The change was gradual
but at the present time couples dancing with poor
positions are so rare as to be very conspicuous.

Over 1000 individual boys and girls took ad-
vantage of these courses last year and the attend-
ance at classes and dances was over 6,500.

Other Program Features

Another very interesting activity is the group
piano instruction open to girls club members of
all ages for 25 cents a week. One unique feature
of the class is the fact that the leader will use any
book which the child brings if it is graded to suit

 

PVHY NOT GIVE THE GIRL A CHANCE? 323

J.
I
a
a

.
3':
ELL

.13 1,4

In.

the child’s need. Thus a group of six girls had
as many different books yet were all learning
from each other as well as from the leader. The
books are often worn and frayed, showing much
use by a former owner, yet they hold the key to
a wonderful skill which can give great individual
pleasure and by using them instead of requiring
new ones we are giving opportunity to many girls
who could not otherwise afford music lessons.
Some little girls spend the entire Saturday morn-
ing listening to instruction not only of their own
group but all the others. One little girl especially
“hugs the piano” and drinks in every word the
instructor says, advancing steadily in her own
work. Girls may have vocal instruction for 35
cents a lesson.

The Summer Program. In summer time the
Girls Club members have the use of the Boys
Club swimming pools for six weeks, and we give
an intensive course in swimming, mostly for be-
ginners. As there is ample chance for practice at
the beaches after the girls have once learned to
swim, they do not come back to us until they are
ready for Red Cross Life Saving. About 400
beginners each year take advantage of six lessons
at the pool for thirty-live cents. At the pool we
also conduct a nature contest, by passing out sets
of questions and riddles, the answers to be fortnd
in the parks and Natural History Museum. This

324 WHY NOT GIVE THE GIRL A CHANCE?

aequaints our youngest members with the museum
and its work. A club of mixed ages known as
the “Girls Club Nature Trail" carries through the
winter at the club house.

Senior Department Privileges. Any girl six-
teen or over may join the senior department of
Girls Club whether she is in school or not. A
membership entitles her to the use of the club
rooms, game and reading rooms five evenings and
on Sunday afternoon. It also gives her access to
certain low fee classes not open to the high school
club members. As the membership fee is fifty
cents more than that of the high school club this
department is taken advantage of mostly by girls
who work. The program usually consists of bas-
ketball, gymnasium, handcraft, knitting, pottery,
and social etiquette, beauty culture, voice, har-
monica, and dramatics.

Within the senior department two self-gov-
erned clubs have been formed with about fifty
members each. They have their own officers, the
use of certain club rooms on designated nights
and sign up for other rooms and facilities as they
need. They plan their own social dancing parties
and hikes, fitting their program about the general
program. Members from both of these join
classes in the senior department program and serve
with senior girls on Sunday Fireside Tea com-
mittees, planning a tea and entertainment not only
for club members but for any girl in the city who
may drop into the clth house on Sunday after-
noon.

Duos. Dues in all departments are kept low
since we are aiming to serve girls who can afford
little. The fee for little girls six to fifteen years
of age in the afternoon clubs is twenty-five cents
for one year. This entitles members to partici-
pate in activities open to their particular age
groups one day each week, gives access to the
game room on two more afternoons a week dur-
ing the coldest part of the winter and to the club
house for three hours on Saturday afternoons
when an open house program of games, dancing.
story-telling and community singing is carried on
for all junior members. The fee for the high
school club is twenty-five cents for participation
in the gymnasium class each week for a season.
An additional small fee is charged for all other
classes so that activities in the high school pro-
gram are self-supporting. The fee for all senior
department members is seventy-five cents a year.
Special arrangements have been made during the
depression period whereby girls may earn their

memberships by giving a certam number of hours
service or may pay over a period of three months.

Scope of Activities. There is always a satura-
tion point beyond which we cannOt serve but only
bungle. Determined to keep within our limit it
has been necessary to limit our membership to
about 1900 girls. This has been done not by set-
ting a limit on the membership as a whole, but by
closing registration in any department when the
capacity for service is reached. It is gratifying to
note the'older groups are larger each year while
we take in about the same number of little girls.
The growth in attendance during the past five
years and its relationship to our budget are indi-
cated by the following figures:

Your Budget Attendance
1928-29 $1 1,037.00 12.590
1929-30 13,601.96 16,5 75
1930-31 13,936.00 22.189
1931-32 14,239.00 32.051
1932-33 1 1,856.00 40,901
1933 -34 1 1,598.00

Lea dershi p

It isn't difficult to find teachers who enjoy im-
parting knowledge of some chosen subject. or
coaches who love to show their skill in drilling
for the champion basketball team or excellently
produced play, but to find a teacher who is will-
ing to make her subject secondary to the subtle
values of character training with often imper-
ceptible results is to discover a leader. Such
leadership is essential in the club work for little
underprivileged girls if we are to reach results.
and finding leadership will always be one of the
big problems of the work since the pay in dollars
and cents is small and the groups to be handled
are usually twice as large as one person can man-
age efficiently. The best sourCe of leadership so
far discovered is among mothers who have been
trained as teachers and have had some experi-
ence before marriage. These mothers often like
to keep “their hand in" and when their own chil-
dren are old enough not to demand all of their
time, are usually glad to work for the small fee
we can offer. They get the idea of recreational
leadership much more readily than the inexperi-
enced teachers who also are often available, and
they usually have a keener insight for true values.

Supplementing the staff of about twenty lead-
ers who are paid by the hour the Worcester Girls
Club uses forty volunteer assistants, often unem-
ployed teachers or students desiring experience.
The paid leaders plan the work and serve much

WHY NOT GIVE THE GIRL A CHANCE? 325

larger groups of girls with the help of the vol—
unteers. The volunteers sign business—like con-
tracts and are proving very dependable since they
come to get something as well as to give. We keep
the data of their training and experience in our
files and are glad to recommend them if they make
good. we also choose our paid leadership from
this group whenever we find good material.

Is It Character Building?

“How can you be sure it is character building
when you take such large groups that you can’t
know individuals ?" This question has come to us
often. We have had gymnasium classes of over
a hundred little girls ()n the floor at one time,
music and home nursing classes of forty and fifty
and crowded handcraft rooms. Our branch club
has been packed as full of girls as sardines in a
box, and little girls _have come after the registra—
tion was closed to them to sit fOr two hours
around the side of the room to watch the fun,
because as one little girl put it, “well, there is no—
where else to go.” Yet those of us who observe
it closely are convinced that the work is character
building. Raising a standard for a group cannot
help but raise the standard of the individual. And
we have watched case after case of individual ad-
justment that has proved the point for us. In
fact there are a number of things that can be said
in favor of large group participation always
granting that the leadership is excellent.

One hundred girls on a gymnasium floor can—
not have a good time without learning to co—
operate. The girl who doesn’t play fair is in the
limelight when room is at a premium. If there
aren’t tools enough to go around in a woodwork-
ing class a spirit of shar-
ing and comradeship must
grow if the group sur-
vives. Girls certainly have
to do their Own thinking
where there are few peo-
ple to think for them.

\Ve have a code which
is printed on junior mem—
bership cards. \Ve do not
insist that it be memoriz—
ed. VVe require no
promises. We suggest that
it be kept in the corner of
the mirror or some place
where it can be seen often.
Each leader is asked to

to face facts.

Worcester Girls Club Code

Wishing to live life at its best, we of
the Worcester Girls Club shall

Search for the best thing in our play.

Share our best thing and so double
our own joy in having.

Smile as we try to remove hard things
from the way.

Give good comradeship to everyone.
Reach for that which at times seems
unattainable that we may grow.
Play fair, that the game may be al-

ways worth playing.
Be true, that we may never be afraid

Master our own selves, that we may
in time become masters.

 

demonstrate how it can be lived in the group work
with as little preaching as possible.

A good proportion of the club girls have been
attending five, six and seven years, some of them
without missing a day. Contact with leadership
and standards must and does leave its mark upon
these little girls who have “nowhere else to go.”
And since each year all classes for older girls are
larger we feel assured that the value of these con-
tacts has become evident to the girls themselves.

Just how many little girls who might be prob-
lems in the community adjust because they have
an outlet for their leisure time we do not know,
but we have seen so many that we are reasonably
sure that year—round recreational opportunity
would lower perceptibly the number of delin—
quency cases and cases which get to clinics. Two
things happen to a girl who finds no outlet for
her playtime desires. Either she becomes morbid
and overshy, shutting up within herself fears and
misunderstanding, or she becomes sullen and
quarrelsome. loving to pester and always On the
defensive. Neither type makes for very good
citizenship. Over and over again both types have
adjusted in activities at the Girls Club with no
special attention, simply because they were as-
sured an equal share in the opportunities. Over
and over again we are finding that these would-
be troublesome ones are the most talented in
music or dramatics or the most rhythmic in the
gymnasium, always the most eager to accept the
opportunity of outlet. Perhaps if they were ordi-
nary they would meet life as stolidly as do many
of their less talented sisters, but because they have
greater capacity for something fine they chafe
harder under the lack of it.

“\Vhat would you do if
nobody liked you and you
didn’t know why?” The
director was startled by
the directness of this ques—
tion _from a scowling girl
about fourteen years old.
Jane was the ugly duck-
ling of the gymnasium
class. Everyone laughed at
her because her ungainly
awkwardness coupled with
intense earnestness was
irresistible. So Jane was
on the defensive and her
quick retorts were cutting
albeit very witty. Yet her

326

earnestness had given her the
courage to seek help where she
had a right to find it. At the
close of the conversation the
director wondered if the trite
truths she had offered could
have any real meaning at all
to Jane. But there followed a
year of the most interesting
effort to put into practice to a
letter every suggestion that the
director had given. Dogged persistence won out
gradually. Leaders became interested and extra
opportunity for dancing and gymnasium work
were made available. Persistence made her excel
so often that she won the admiration and finally
the genuine liking of the girls. Later she brought
an awkward brother to the social dancing class
and we wondered how many hours of practice
they put in to conquer the steps. Then came a
visitor to watch the social dance club one night,
“That little girl in the plaid dress is the most
graceful dancer on the floor," she remarked. The
director's heart thrilled. She alone was seeing the
ugly duckling of two years be fore and wondering
what might have happened if there had been no
opportunity set in the way.

Leaders with large groups of active girls can-
not give time to discipline the few who do not fit,
so the problem girl meets the director, but meets
her with no barrier between them. She is in-
vited into the office for a get acquainted chat with
no idea of discipline. The leader's name is not
mentioned, though sometimes a change of leader
and of activity straightens the matter out. Some-
times a misunderstanding is explained away.
Often a little extra attention will set things en-
tirely right, or a home condition is brought to
light which helps the leader to understand. How-
ever, the real problem cases are few, when oppor—
tunity for varied activity is given.

Will Girls Participate in a Recreation Program?

So many times the criticism has been made,
“\\'e have tried to draw industrial girls into our
program and they will not take part. If they
come at all they do not dress right for the activi-
ties and they hang back. Our classes usually peter
out and the boys get the use of the facilities be-
cause they demand it."

The depression practically did away with the
term “industrial girl" in \Vorcester, and made us
think in terms of girls who have very little, if

Reformatory officials tell us that
93 per cent of the girls in their
care have never had the oppor-
tunity to take part in a wholesome
recreation program.
tween $400 and $500 a year to stip-
port a girl in a state reformatory,
but a fee of $10 a year provides
for a girl in a girls club. The \Vor-
eester Girls Club is Operating at a
per eapita cost of $7.50.

WHY NOT GIVE THE GIRL A CHANCE?

anything, to spend on recrea-
tion. It made us discover that
all of these girls have definite
tastes already formed and that
we can do very little about
changing them. The majority
long for movies and the dance
halls. They did come in small
groups to see “what it was
like"; they were dressed in
high heels and clothes impos-
sible for the gymnasium floor and they didn’t last
long in any strenuous activity. Some few be-
came interested in making something to wear, but
as money for material was scarce and skills had
not been developed these small groups could
hardly be classed as recreational. Perhaps the
most successful group was the “Beauty Recipes"
class which gave practical instruction in personal
appearance, but even that failed to compete with
the magazine advertisements and movie actress
type of beauty propaganda.

But to offset these demonstrations of the lack
of enthusiasm we have hundreds of girls from
the same type of homes who have grown up
through the \Vorcester Girls Club. They are com-
ing out ninety strong to gymnasium classes. They
are dressed right because they have learned how
to dress for gymnasium play since they were six.
Some of them had difiiculty in acquiring their
first pair of sneakers and played at a disadvan-
tage when they were little, and they have valued
each succeeding pair as they have grown up. They
enter our handcraf t classes and make sweaters and
dresses cheaper and better than they can buy
them, because they have been making things since
they were six. They produce play after play in
dramatic clubs until it seems impossible to find
nights enough for them, because they learned to
enjoy it when they were twelve. We never have
enough space and time to devote to their demands.
Not all of them are athletic, but fine dancing
proves as healthy an exercise for the rest and a
fair proportion take both. Most of them swim
well. Lack of facilities makes-it impossible for
us to deve10p tennis skills, but it is not lack of
desire on the part of these girls. If only one-
tifth of the girls of a city are trained to under-
stand participation in healthful sport let's not
blame the other fourth-fifths who never had the
opportunity for such training when they do not
want to demonstrate that they are dubs at it.

(Continued on page 350)

It eosts be-

A Theatre
Workshop

for

(:thren

ECAUSE it is more fun to
dance if the dance is part of
the action of a story and

much more exciting to paint if
you are making a piece of scen-
ery that will form a background
for your play, the Theatre \Vork—
shop for Children was opened in
Scarsdale, New York, last winter
for the purpose of unifying the
creative arts which are second nature to child-
hood. For six months the children, ranging in
ages from five to thirteen, went to the workshop
after their regular classes were over for the day
and worked on their production. They chose the
story “Treasure Island” about which to create
their dialogue, dances and songs and on which to
base the motifs for their settings and costumes.

On the second of May they presented their play
before a delighted audience who didn’t mind in
the least when Billy Bones calmly got up and
walked off after his death scene, since there was
no curtain to draw, or when the little actors
shifted their scenery before the audience and pre-
pared for the next act, or when the youngest
members of the cast looked desperately off-stage
for help from the prompter. Such matters were
of little importance compared with the sincerity
and beauty that went into the production. They
provided as many thrilling moments for the true
theatre-lover as any finished Broadway—produced
drama.

They began last winter with Robert Louis Ste-
venson's robust tale of what happened to Jim
Hawkins after he left the Admiral Benbow Inn
and sailed off on the I-lispaniola. \Vith this glam-

 

orous start, they procured lumber, nails. paints
and dyes, pieces of colored gelatines and empty
coffee cans and went to work to create the world
in which Jim, Long John Silver and Captain
Smollett had their being. Original paintings sug-
gested by the action and descriptions in the story
were made and from the ideas expressed in these
paintings grew the designs for the stage sets, cos-
tumes and properties.

The actual stage sets, built from the models
selected, were made by the boys and girls, as were
the costumes and properties which included guns
and cutlasses, carved from wood and painted by
the children. In addition to the designing, decorat-
ing and painting of fabrics for costumes, the
painting of scenery and the composition of ballet
routines, the children also wrote five original sea
chanties, both words and music. “Turn, Turn the
Capstan liars" and the Parrots’ chorus, “Pieces
of Eight." were particularly successful. The
modern note of simplicity was introduced in all
the sets but only enough guidance was given to
teach the fundamentals of color and design and
to direct the children's ideas and experiments in
the proper channels.

(Continued on page 357)

A Hobby Show in Syracuse

um 1m. city of Syracuse,
New York, early this year
adopted the plan of creat-
ing a municipal recreation com-
mission to help solve the problem of the proper
use of leisure time, one of the first efforts of this
commission was to make a thorough survey of the
particular recreation needs of the city and its
vicinity. In making this survey the needs of each
group were carefully considered and every effort
was made to satisfy those demands through pro-
per recreational facilities. For the group which
demanded strenuous physical activity baseball.
softball, tennis, swimming, and similar sports were
organized in the various parks and recreation cen-
ters. For the group preferring less strenuous
means of recreation archery, horseshoe pitching.
handicraft and quiet games were organized.
After both of these groups had been adeQuately
provided for, the x'ommission found that there
was still a very large group whose recreational
ntcds were not met by this program. The mem-
bers of this group Wt re largely persons who, be-
“ause of temperament or
indifference, seldom or

never visiterl tht parks

By FRANK E. MILLER

Executive Chairman

Syracuse Hobby Show

A fascinating part of the puppetry exhibit _ , . .
was seeing how the puppets are manipulated ICC-t- \ and“ C‘m‘mlttces

and playgrounds to participate in
games, either actively or as spec-
tators. It was found that this
group, to a large extent, provided
for their own recreation at home through the
medium of hobbies.

To provide for this large and often unconsid-
ered group. the Municipal Recreation Commis-
sion organized and conducted the “Greater Syra-
cuse Hobby Show and Achievement Exhibition,”
the primary purpose of which was to bring to the
attention of the people of Syracuse and vicinity
numerous leisure time activities which would not
ordinarily be brought to the fore in the regular
municipal recreation programs. The exhibition
especially stressed the fact that hundreds of ac-
ti\'i[i‘.S not regularly scheduled in any program
were available for leisure time use, and that these
activities cost little and' could prove a profitable
and enjoyable method of employing leisure time.

For the purposes of the exhibit, the use of the
State Armory was secured as an exhibition ball.
This building was well known, centrally located,
and had adequate door and
wall space for such a pro-

 

A HOBBY SHOW IN SYRACUSE 329

were then appointed to organize, promote and
publicize the “hobby show” as it came to be
called. Local civic leaders were approached and
their approval and support of the venture gained.
Many of these leaders submitted letters of en—
dorsement and approval of the project which they
allowed to be used for publicity purposes.

The Publicity Campaign

In order to bring this entirely new venture to
the attention of a majority of the citizens, a defl—
nite publicit}' campaign was inaugurated. Each of
the three daily and Sunday papers were furnished
with feature and regular news stories concerning
the hobbies of prominent local citizens or unusual
hobbies brought to light in the building up of the
hobby show program. These stories were given to
the papers and each was il-

cational classes of the Department of Education.
From this same source also came the printing of
the claim checks for the return of the articles and
the printing of the vari—colored ribbons used as
prizes for the various sections of the show.

A week before the opening of the hobby show,
the use of department store and other strategi—
cally located windows was secured, and in each
one of these windows valuable and attractive ex-
amples of hobbies were set up together with a
large placard directing attention to the show and
inviting the public to attend. These placards
especially stressed the part of the Municipal Rec-
reation Commission in this activity, and brought
a great deal of attention to the project. °

For the physical set-up of the show, the Board
of Elections furnished tables and chairs. The De-

partment of Parks furnished

lustrated by photographs
taken by the departmental
photographer. In this man-
ner a fine publicity campaign
was built up through the
newspapers.all of which gave
every cooperation in the
work.

In addition to the newspa-
per publicity, each of the two
local radio stations broadcast
notices and items concerning
the hobby show from time to

"One who has a hobby can never tire
of life. He always has something of
passionate interest. Sometimes the
hobby is within the scope of one’s
vocation. But for the great mass of
men it cannot be. In none of the
three fundamental types of hobbies
—the acquiring of knowledge, the ac-
quiring of things, the creation of
things—do the daily tasks give 0p-
portunity of self-development or for
contributing to the happiness or we]-
fare of others. Most fortunate are
they whose vocations allow them the
scope and fervor of an avocation.”--

large band stands, palms and
ferns, and did all the neces—
sary trucking. In order to
guard the objects exhibited,
a special detail of police, ordi-
narily assigned to duty in the
parks, was transferred to the
State Armory for the dura-
tion of the show.

One whole day from 9:00
A.l\I. to 10:00 P. M., was
allotted for the exhibitors to
bring their collections to the

time throughout each day for
two weeks in advance of the
actual event. Immediately before the opening
day each radio station put on a special fifteen
minute program in the interests of the show. On
one of these programs a member of the Munici-
pal Recreation Commission and the executive
chairman of the hobby show spoke on the value
of such a venture from the viewpoint of recrea-
tion. On the other program the assistant super-
intenclent of schools spoke on the value of the
hobby idea from an educational standpoint. Each
of these special broadcasts aroused a great deal of
interest and actively promoted the hobby show
idea.

Other Preliminaries

Application blanks containing all rules, regula-
tions. and classifications of objects to be exhibited,
together with a responsibility release requiring
the signature of the person entering anything in
the show, were printed free of charge by the vo-

The pr York Times.

State Armory. Arrangements
' for checking. making out
claim checks, and setting up the various exhibits
were made so that no exhibitor, except in very
special cases, was allowed to be on the tioor while
the exhibits were being arranged. This avoided
any type of congestion or confusion, and the
workers on the floor could go about their tasks
unhampered.

The Exhibits and Demonstrations

In order to vitalize the exhibits and keep the
interest of the spectators in the show, special
active demonstrations of recreation work were
provided. Among the most successful of these
were archery demonstrations and the puppet thea-
tre. 1n the case of archery, several special demon-
strations of plain and fancy shooting with various
types of bows and arrows were staged daily. In
order to keep the exhibit constantly active, a group
of recreation leaders were in constant attendance,
explaining the recreational values of archery and

3.5!! .1 HOBBY b'inll’ 1N SYA’AL L .51:

Archery, featured through
exhibits and a demonstra-
tion of the making of bows
and arrows, was most pop-
ular and won manyconverts

illustrating this by paint-
ing mm the actual den'mn-
~tratiun- of arrnw mak-
mg and him stringing
gumg on in their section
uf the shuw.

Unt- recreatinn leader
was especiall} assigned tn
secure the names and ad«
Iresses of thuse persuns
Wlln (ll51)ltl}"(‘(l an active
interest in this sport so
that these pmph might
.ater he invited tn join
the archery groups in the
c a r i u n s parks. This
method was sn success-
illl that at the end Hf the
three day run Hf 1h! llullut .huw uver 250 addi-‘
tit~nal at‘tn'l participants were secured fur tlte rec-
reatinnal archer" grnmw. :\ll plans and activities
fur the archery grnup uuring the shnw were left
in the hanrk n U]! art’nery lireetur of the Mn-
nit ipal Re: reauun ( ntnntissium tl‘lUr cent. ring the
real'mnsihiliti fur the «HUN ~25 nf tl‘lt Venture in the
hands r-f unt- 1""th ~11.

'l he put 1w .11 M tlv MW at» [Erma d tn le » n '
af .llt‘ alltrtit‘luitl‘lg featurp at the huhiw «ho-w
lhu 1nrt'»rmatm- «f this feature was staged it. n
-;»w 'ally l-nilt 1mm «et tht .ttra- l1 h'tlttfl '1} nm uf tl't'
ch » «l, ('3! ant" liltl'rr‘stc’l m that art 'I he
all-UM a t \Jtm St r. M’Utr- ' Irul" an urganizt ’l
rtmat ur .gtutt. ‘ I ltulrlaltt" 11 the t t} lint
- *hn rlin. Ultl-- 11M ntnu r: at w putttn; m :1 IM‘

.rtnmr . f Hr Fan. *1: nithunt .‘leqnatr
.' nix 1| I . Jln'u -- M} t  w. ' .r-"mr. ‘utll- h

:t‘ hnr l' law «« " n-l  nit-El:

‘lm. lll‘h .rrt‘ n mg alle

u tat hl£i

‘|"‘-tllt‘

-I'. ".3 .1' .ttm

| . - i ‘ rll x]; ' ‘It “ .. It ,Lllul catun ‘ l
. t H u‘ ' u \ 7- ll ' IV"
. i . f' H,
' u I -'- . I 1'1'! . ‘1 t
l ‘ ‘ ‘ in \l h l' l ' -
t " T f ' H ' f l '
. 9 ,

 

hy the handicraft shops under the direction (If the
cunmtissinn. Thruugh this medium many persons
interesttd in taking up handicraft work were
signed up for future prugrams.
‘ lther exhibits attracting special attentinn were
thrusc uf the cullectirnn of ancient and mudern
musical instruments exhibited lny a local enthusi-
ast, the exhibition uf ship and airplane mudels.
and the (xeeptinnall) tine showing cf nld theatri«
cal busters These ('Xhihit.‘ might alsu he classed
as hating eptiunal spectatnr intert-«t. \tna mg
the txhilnits \\ hit I“. drew their qnnta t-f attentiun
Wf’t't' trelliical tish. mechanic 5. metal wurk. stamps,
milts, mient-pltntugraplty camera atllfliCS, cla)
tnmltls, trtpe llalltt' [Wink-1'5, and nld and cm
I 1h Inc graph 1'! u it'd:-
\ .titital analvsi.- -:f the “llt't‘t‘h‘ c I this ven-
ah 111nm tl'u part at the .‘lllnlk'llhlf. t‘itN‘t‘tJtlxln
it".tn.‘is~'tnn :f tl‘lt nj n‘t .‘wnt'ttst «ht-w: that
nth an u- t1\'lt\ 1h. and In detiditt'ly ~ th-utllh! far
91m ‘Vilt'u" nwntl‘ inn the atttmlante an The
t. t.’ wa~ mtmdtrahlv tut *lu‘Vl] It" .l'lt ,th
nth: '. "c ta-t tllitl :1 “at: ~ttlgt d :utr-t ‘ht
u tl: m tr - ttt :1 WHY . 11 and Ham t xhilntnr.g
M.) rn  rte-n um '11! mn. ulr-rahl} flitl' tltt
‘1 new r the L n It“; I t at

itt ‘ l..."' " 'i‘lglllt a

l

Developing the Community Center Program

By J ACOB W. FELDMAN

Director, Central Avenue Community Center
Newark, New Jersey

every one who takes part in any way in the

program has a voice in its development—the
people of the community, the staff of the center
and the staff of the central of‘hce. Because of this
all feel they have contributed to the program and
are vitally interested in its success. This type of
center takes into consideration the fact that com-
munities in different sections of the city will dif-
fer; that the people of the various districts have
their own leaders who understand them a great
deal better than any outsider can hope to, and that
these leaders know what their people can do and
would like to do. They know the financial condi-
tion of the peOple, their racial likes and dislikes
and their educational background. A knowledge
of these factors is essential for the development
of a successful program.

IN THE DEMOCRATIC type of community center

The Community Center Council

In the democratic type of center use is made of
the knowledge and ability of community leaders
by having them serve on a community center
council which is an advisory group to the center’s
staff. One of the essential functions of this coun—
cil is to analyze and study every activity proposed
to see whether it will serve
the needs of the community

who may be interested in taking part in the
activity. A program developed by this method has
a splendid chance of success because the activities
of the program have the full support of the
people.

The atmosphere of a center conducted under
the democratic form of government is different
from that of a center carried on under any other
method. The people of the community feel that
the center is their club house; that they have a
voice in the building of its program and policies.
They feel the responsibility of helping to protect
the building and of conducting themselves pro-
perly. Through the council members, who are
their friends and live in the community, they have
a direct representative to determine the policies
controlling the center. If a special activity is de-
sired, the group wanting it can approach either a
staff or a council member and feel that their re-
quest will be considered at the next council meet-
ing and fully discussed before it is adopted or re-
jected. In either case they will know that the de-
cision was made by their friends for the good of
the center as a whole. If the activity they desire is
adopted, they will work for its success. If it is
rejected, they will feel no resentment against the

staff or the center, knowing
that it was rejected for

and gain support from the
people of the district. After
approving an activity the
council members, through
their knowledge of the abili-
ties and desires of the peo-
ple in the district, will some-
times suggest the name of a
person living in the neigh-
borhood who is qualified to
take leadership for the ac-
tivity. They will also sug-
gest the names of people

Mr. Fcldman states there are three gen-
eral types of community centers— (1)
the autocratic type, with a program set
up by the central office, in which the
people of the community have no voice
and no consideration is given to differ-
ences in neighborhoods; (2) the com-
bination of the autoeratic and the demo-
eratic types which operates under a pro-
gram set np by the central office but per-
mits of variations hy the staff to meet
community needs, and (3) the democra-
tic type in whose planning and adminis-
tration the people of a community have
a large part. Mr. Feldman"s article deals
with the third type of center.

some good reason. This pro-
cedure has a splendid effect
on the center members and
creates a good attitude to-
ward the center.

The council is the direct
link between the staff and
the people of the commu-
nity and functions as an ad-
visory group to the staff. If
its personnel is properly
selected, representing the
different elements in the

331

332

commUnity, it will be of invaluable aid to the
staff and to the center.

The council should consist of the leaders of the
neighborhood which the center serves. Council
members can do much to create good-will toward
the center. Since they have a voice in determining
policies they can interpret them to the people of
their neighborhood with whom they come in daily
contact. They can also be of aid to the staff in help-
ing them to have the proper perspective regarding
the reaction of the people toward the program.
They know, because they are close to the people,
whether or not an activity is successful. Since the
council members are their friends and neighbors,
the people of the community will go to them with

their criticisms and suggestions more readily than
they would go to staff members.

Adapting Policies to Center Needs

In this type of center the central office sets up
the general policies applying to all centers. These
policies, worded in general terms, are interpreted
individually by the staff to fit the needs of their
centers. One of these policies pertains to the
hours the centers are to operate. A minimum time
is set up and it is optional with the staff of the
different centers if more time is added. In this
way the program of a center can be expanded to

a greater extent than if the time were absolutely
hxed.

The central office determines the forms and
types of reports to be filled out and sent in at a
set time. It also decides the number of people who
shall compose the center’s staff and the amount of
money each center may spend on leadership for
special activity groups. The amount of money
spent for the different activities is determined by
the central office, but the type of activity to be
sponsored in each center is left to the discretion
of the staff and the council. This plan gives each
center an opportunity to devel0p those activities
best suited to its people and from which they will
derive the greatest benefit. It also develops the
greatest amount of self-expression for all con-
cerned and assures success for the activities that
are put on because only those activities are spon-
sored in which the people of the district have in-
dicated their interest.

Under this plan one center may carry on a
splendid program in handcraft, another in music,
a third in drama and still another in art. the de-
ciding factor in each case being the desire of the
people of the comnmnity themselves. There is no

DEVELOPING THE COMMUNITY CENTER PROGRAM

question of attempting to compare the work of
the various centers because they are not following
one set program, each differing as do the people
of a district. The staffs of the centers are, as a
result, not under the strain and worry of having
to fear comparisons in league standings, number
of classes, attendance rating and similar details.

The staff of the central office is a supervisory
one in the best sense of the word. From their
greater experience and knowledge they can save
the staffs and councils many missteps. They can
guide them along known lines and protect them
from the trial and error method of finding out
what is best, though in some instances this
method is essential in finding out what is best
suited for the particular neighborhood. The cen-
tral office should suggest to the staff and the coun-
cil different activities which they think suitable for
a certain district and nationality group.

The central office arranges for staff meetings
for all the centers so that workers may discuss
common problems and help to decide upon general
policies that will govern all centers. Thus staff
members know why certain general policies are

set up and are able to interpret them to the people
of their centers.

DeveIOping the Program

The community center program should repre-
sent a cross seetion of the desires, needs and
abilities of the people of the community served.
It must be as broad as human desires: under no
condition shall it be narrow, serving only one sec-
tion of the community. The program must be of
such a nature that the people of the neighborhood
will be able to take part in it and will derive joy
and benefit from this participation. It must of
necessity cover many activities.

Most activities under this system begin with
a small number of participants, but if a par-
ticular activity has the proper appeal the class
will increase. Some groups, however, will always
be small because of the limited appeal of the ac-
tivity. Beginning :1 class with a small interested
group will help to insure the success of the activ-
ity, especially if the leader has the ability to keep
the interest of the group alive through the sub-
ject matter presented. With the small group the
leader has an opportunity to determine the ability
of each member. He can then plan his program to
fit the capacity of the individual. Because of this,
members of the group will derive much benefit
from activity and will urge their friends to join.

DEVELOPING THE COMMUNITY CENTER PROGRAM 333

The activity, built on a solid
foundation of satisfaction,
will then create good-will
for the center.

\Vith a large number the
leader does not have the op-

portunity to study the peo—'

ple in the group and can—
not plan the work to fit the
individual. If the interest
of the member is not very
keen he will soon drop out

“Nine timcs out of ten a newcomer’s
first impression of the social center is
received from the doorman. He is the
gateway to the center.

“As a doorman you have a dual func-
tion you are a watchman and you are
a reccption committee of one.

“Guard your post with firm kindness
and kind firmness. Put people who seem
strange at ease by a personal welcome.

“Remember there is magic in a smile.
Radiate cheerfulness.”

From Bulletin issued by thc Extension
Department, Milwaukee Public Schools.

 

position that requires a
great deal of tact and any
one occupying it must know
when to be harsh and when
to be lenient; when to be
firm and when to be easy.
He must be able to adjust
himself quickly to different
conditions, to make people
of all ages feel at home, and
be able to go from a child’s
problem one moment to that

and others will follow. This

has a bad effect on the class as a whole and soon
the project is marked as a failure. This is not
always true because in some activities a compe-
tent leader can handle a large group and keep
their interest.

\Vith the small group the leader is able more
quickly to impart knowledge to the individuals,
and as new members join the class the older mem-
bers can assist the new members to acquire the
hrst steps in the activity. Again, some projects
that are very much worth while will have a limited
appeal. If it is the policy of the system to work
with small groups the center can sponsor them.
These activities help the program and enrich the
lives of the people participating in them and
through them the life of the community.

In developing a program for the center it is de-
sirable to begin with some activities which have
bcen tried in other centers and found to appeal to
different nationality groups. Some centers located
in buildings not designed for community centers
cannot put all these projects into effect. If old
school buildings are used for community center
purposes, it will be impossible to put into effect
the projects listed in the following pages unless
some money is spcnt on remodeling. The activi-
ties discussed here are offered as suggestions; ex-
perience has shown that they should be given con—
sideration in the development of a program.

Administration Problems
Welcoming the Newcomer

Since there are always people entering the com-
munity center building for the first time, it is im-
portant to have some one at the door to welcome
newcomers. The first impression the visitor re-
ceives of the center is through this individual. It
is therefore desirable to have some one with a
pleasing personality, who greets every one with a
smile and who has the patience of Jovel It is a

of an adult at the next.
Facilities

If possible, arrange to have a check room close
to the entrance of the center. This helps in several
ways to create the club atmosphere desired. If an
individual checks his coat and hat, he will usually
stay longer and will take part in a greater number
of activities. Moreover, there is the practical con-
sideration that if an individual has broken any of
the rules of the center, it is easier to find him if
it is necessary for him to go to a check room for
his belongings. The checking of clothes also adds
a great deal to the appearance of the rooms in
which the different groups meet. If clothes are
scattered about, it detracts from the atmosphere
of 'the club rooms. '

Open Activities

Each center should have some type of open ac-
tivities available to all without formality. This
type of activity has a special appeal for the
stranger on his first visit to the center and for
members of various groups and clubs not in ses-
sion. It gives the newcomer an opportunity to see
some of the activities and to become acquainted.
It affords the leader in the open activities room
an opportunity to study the individual and to
find out what he or she is interested in and then
to direct him to that special group. The open
activity has the advantage of giving members of
the center who belong to a special group the op-
portunity to participate in some activity at the
center when their groups are not meeting. The
open activities room is especially helpful to the
person who does not wish to join any club which

necessitates his coming at a special time and pay-
ing dues.

There are several kinds of open activities rooms

such as the library, quiet game room, active game
room, and the billiard room. Each of these rooms

334 DEVELOPING THE COMMUNITY CENTER PROCRAA-I

will attract a different type of person. some going
to two or three of them during the evening.

In the quiet game room there are a number of
table games in which one to four or more people
may play. The leader in this room must be an ex-
ceptional person, able to keep people of different
tastes interested in the various games and success-
ful in winning their confidence. He must be able to
arrange for tournaments in various games, seeing
to it that no one mon0polizes any popular game.
If the right type of leader is in charge he can de-
velop the quiet game room into one of the most
popular rooms in the center and can make it a
starting point from which people will become in-
terested in the other activities of the center. The
atmosphere of the game room should be one of
welcome to all with no restrictions of any kind
except that no one may disturb his neighbor.

The stranger at the center should be warmly
welcomed and made to feel at home in the game
room. As there are many games that one person
may play alone, there is no necessity for his com-
ing in contact with any one until he gets his bear-
ings, and it should be possible for him to look on
until he feels himself on familiar ground. In this
room a stranger will readily absorb some of the
atmosphere of the center and will soon desire to
participate in other activities.

The library is another open activities room that
a center should have. In many cities the public
library will establish a branch library at the cen-
ter, furnishing the books and the librarian. This
is a very happy and desirable arrangement. Many
people are interested
in reading and enjoy
Spending an hOUr or
so at the library. If
there is a branch li-
brary within walking
distance of their
homes. they will take
advantage of it. A
branch library in the
center can be of great
assistance in develop-
ing programs for the

Quiet game rooms are
among the essential
features of today's
community centers

clubs. This assistance is especially valuable for
dramatic groups, debating clubs and groups study-
ing special projects. It also helps to create the
proper atmosphere at the center.

The active game or rough house room is ex-
actly what its name implies. It is a place where
the participants can indulge in very active games
that require a great deal of physical effort. The
room should have bare walls. and electric light
fixtures should be screened. There should not be
any juts from the wall into the room; all walls
should be straight. This room will appeal to boys
and young men who want to take part in games
of a very informal nature that require great phy-
sical exercise. Low organized games are popular
in this room. The active game room is beneficial
in that it helps young men to get rid of their ex-
cess energy. It will satisfy the needs of certain in-
dividuals in the community who may be the cause
of a great deal of worry on the part of the staff
if such a room is not provided.

The billiard room should have a friendly at-
mosphere and should be removed as far as possi-
ble from the atmosphere of the commercial bil-
liard room. Children ought not be allowed in this
room and an age limit of at least seventeen should
be enforced. Billiards is a game of skill, and if
properly supervised should not be objeCtionable in
any center.

livery center should have, if possible, a recre-
ation or club room fitted out as a real club room
with as good a quality of furniture as it is pos-
sible to buy with the money available. It is de-

 

Cvmtny Reading. Pm, Department of Pqu Rrrrroh'ou

DEVELOPING THE COMMUNITY CENTER PROGRAM 335

sirable that the room be furnished by the differ- '

ent groups of the center and that as much of the
decoration of the room as possible should be done
by the members. This is important for several
reasons. The members will take greater pride in
the room and will feel that it really belongs to
them if they have had a part in the planning and
making of the furnishings. Moreover, it is a con-
stant source of pride to the members to be able to
point out to their friends what they have done.
Each club should have a pennant or emblem or
token of some kind which will represent them in
the club room. It develops pride in the members
of the club to have such recognition and makes
them strive to do something outstanding for the
recreation room.

The recreation room provides an excellent place
to display the handcraft work of the different
groups. This is one way of showing what the ac-
tivities groups are doing, is a means of getting
others interested, and a way of giving public rec-
ognition to the members in the activities group.
A recreation room can be made to give a friendly
atmosphere to the center. It should be a club room
open to all, a place to meet one’s friends and to
sit and chat.

In the open activities rooms a member of the
center is not required to join anything of a spe-
citic nature or to obligate himself to do any par-
ticular thing. He may attend any of the open ac-
tivities at any time and as often as he wishes.
Attendance does not require payment on his part.
After he has attended these open activities it is
natural to suppose he may become interested in
some of the activities which may be called “closed”
ones. If the program has been properly developed,
there must be some type of activity in which he
will wish to take part.

C loscd Activities

A program of closed activities should be made
as broad as it is possible with the facilities and
money available. With a little ingenuity and with
the cooperation from outside individuals and
agencies, a broad program can be developed with
little money and with limited facilities.

Handcraft. There are 'some activities that all
seem to enjoy. Of course,‘ these will differ in
form with each racial group, and the plane on
which the groups carry On a particular activity
will be different because of the education and
ability of each group; nevertheless, all will enjoy
the activity. Such'an activity is handcraft. Every

one seems to likefjfo do'something with his hands.
The type of handcraft will differ with the various
nationalities and with the amount of previous
training the group has had. Handcraft projects
can be carried on at every center, some with very
little expense, while others require a considerable
outlay of money. The material used in some pro-
jects may be obtained for nothing. A project of
this type is linoleum block printing. Linoleum
can be secured from any shop which lays floors.
In this process there are always some pieces left
which, though varying in size, will be suitable for
linoleum block printing. The tools needed are
very simple and inexpensive, and any one can
learn in a short time to make artistic block prints.
This is a good project for holiday cards as in-
dividual designs can be made. Block printing can
also be effectively used in printing cloth.

Soap carving is another inexpensive type of
handcraft which gives an opportunity for the par-
ticipant to develop his artistic ability. Making
water colors is another interesting activity, and it
is amazing to see what people can do with water
colors or charcoal. Beautiful things can be made
at little expense with crayonex used on muslin.

If a manual training shop is available and ma-
terial can be purchased, the possibilities of hand-
craft at a center immediately widen. A great va-
riety of things can be made in a manual training
shop, the only limitation being the skill of the
workers and the amount of money that can be
spent for material. Attractive articles that are
very inexpensive have, however, been made in
center shops.

An art metal craft shop is also desirable if
equipment and instruction are available. So many
articles can be made in this type of activity which
are of real value in the home that a great number
of people will want to take advantage of this
opportunity.

Sewing is always popular at the centers. Mem-
bers of the class may remodel old clothes and
make new clothes for their children and them-
selves. A sewing class will supply a need in any
district. If a center is located in a district where
embroidery is possible, it should sponsor such a
class.

Music. Music is another activity with univer-
sal appeal. In developing a music program the
staff and council of the center can usually secure
some outside assistance. In most cities there
are musical organizations or individuals who will

{5: II} I I‘LUI’IA t} PHI: LLOJIMC XI? l‘ (. ENIER PROGRAM

Handcraft projects
can be carried on in
all community cen-
ters by all notion-

ality groups

In glad to help in
planning a program.
This aid may come
in the form of
money, of supply-
ing leaders or lend-
ing music for the
various groups to
use. The Essential
for the success of
the music program
is that right leader-
ship he s ecu red.
\fter a center has taken the first step, the pro-
gram will naturally grow, one activity leading to
another. In initiating the music program it may be
necessary to start at a lower level than the director
desires. Ilut from that heginning standards can
gradually he raised until a hetter appreciation is
(level: .ped.

Then are mam forms ot music activities pos-
sible in a center. In some instances the. partici-
pants may furnish their own instruments. leader
and music In others, it will be necessary for the
water to supp]: the music and leader, though oc-
u-asic nally the group itstlf will provide a leader.

'I he ran. 1al hackground of the groups that Come
1» the center will to a great degree determint
what tan heat. he attempted in lirst developing a
program. If the center has no mune} and is lack-
mg in leadership. it can begin by sponsoring a
wusw festival among organized group... if its im-
1"‘liltt‘ district. This event should in a festival
and not a out: .1 \r- judging sh mld be per-
mitted and lot “twarr‘~ utfered. " ht gm nups should
ht- Illuth ta ICtl that the} are taking part in the
testixal for thu ft)" of it, and to heat and aCt
a hat wthet.‘ are doing They --hould he made to
..u(l(fst‘ 1nd that they a ill not be re mm d to King

out i tr. e lmt umy sing tln mu:- . tlu  know lot-st;
‘..t ‘h:- «maller gruuup nut hanag II'nam'ial re-

‘r e a ll harr the :tmr- ‘Il-p "twat" as those
I 1 ‘11:: gr 31h " rewurcc:

I it”! I] *1 In."i trim has «Cu onuluctcd in!

{our ' t‘-(I'.' ' ‘ ommunit) center lUC‘ath in a

 

district with a large colored population. The
council and the staff decided to sponsor a song
festival by colored church choirs. Each colored
choir in the city was invited to attend; ten ac—
cepted the invitation. Each choir was asked to
sing two numbers, one a Negro spiritual. Some of
the larger choirs did not enter, but the smaller
choirs were glad to take part and make a public
appearance perhaps for the first time. .\ festive
spirit pervaded the scene that evening, and joyous
laughter rang throughout the building.

In this type of festival the leader must he care-
ful to avoid showing partiality to any group. In
this particular festival choruses were arranged in
the program alphabetically. \\ hen the choirs be-
gan to sing there was no restraint; they all sang
for the ioy of singing and to show their friends
w hat the} could do. The audience showed its ap-
preciation h} applauding the Chutrs most gener-
«usly. livery one seemed to be. impressed with the
Iveautiful singing and friendly spirit that pre-
\dilt'fl. The surcess of the festival was assured,
and it became an annual event.

After four years it is possihle tt judge what
this festival has done f or ehoir singing among the
c al ~re-*. churches of the city. The standard of
music has liven raised. So eager are tlu- choirs to
partiupatr in the festival that nothing is per-
mitted to Interfere with their taking part. While
it is true that no formal judging is done. people in
the audituce and the members of the othrr choirs
serve as informal judges. All the choirs are aware

DEVELOPING THE COMMUNITY CENTER PROGRAM 337

of this and try hard to improve the quality of
their music. The festival has been the means of
building up some of the smaller choirs. It is also
a medium for honoring the members of the com-
munity center council. At every festival all the
members of the council appear on the stage so that
the audience may see who has sponsored the fes-
tival. The council members consider this a great
honor.

In every community there are peoplie who have
had some instruction in music either in high
school, college, or with a private teacher, and who
would enjoy playing semi-classical ahd classical
selections. Some players of jazz bands would also
enjoy an evening of ensemble playing {pf this type.
Unfortunately very few cities have orchestras open
to the general public that play the better type of
music, though their number is increasing. The
success of such orchestras will depend entirely
upon the conductor whose responsibility it is to
take players of varying abilities and mold them
into a finished ensemble. During this process the
conductor must make the players enjoy their re—
hearsals. He must be a finished musician with a
tremendous amount of patience. The right type
of man can develop an outstanding orchestra.
Such an orchestra will supply the néeds of cer-
tain people in the community as nothing else can.

Dramatics. Dramatics should be developed in
every community center. The plane upon which
dramatics is presented at the beginning will set the
standard for the center. One of the best clubs
should be urged to give the first play—one that
has been selected with the greatest of care; one
that is fine and still not over the heads of the
audience and not above the ability of the group
presenting the play.

After the play has been selected, the next step
is the building of scenery. A set of scenery will
do more to encourage dramatics in a community
center than any one thing. There is something
about acting before a set of scenery that helps
create a different atmosphere at rehearsals. The
building of a set is not a difficult matter. Directions
on construction can be obtained from any good
book on scenery building. The set should be as
substantial as possible because it can be used many
times. In one center a set was constructed by a
group who combined with the project a good time.
They worked for three Sundays. Different people
brought lunch each time, and every one had a
share‘ in preparing and serving it. The group

worked on the set from 9:00 to 12:00 o’clock,
then took a recess for lunch and enjoyed singing

and a social period until 2 :00 o’clock, when they
resumed work continuing until 5:00.

One of_ the most popular forms of dramatics is
a minstrel show. The best material available
should be used, and as much local talent as pos-
sible should be cast even if it is not as good as
outside talent. When members of the center take
part, their relatives and friends will come to the
performance and the center’s staff will have an
opportunity to make new contacts.

If the proper ground work has been laid it
should not be difficult to interest groups in pro—
ducing one—act plays. If a club has given a suc-

cessful play, other groups will be glad to follow
its example.

In sponsoring dramatics the center not only
gives the people who participate an opportunity to
express themselves, but offers an opportunity to
the people in thecommunity to see a play. Great
numbers of people have never seen plays pre4
sented by people on a stage; in many instances
the movies are the only form of drama that they
know. An important part of the drama program,
therefore, is the education of the audience, many
of whom are unaccustomed to the spoken drama.

Social Dancing. Social dancing occupies a
prominent part in the social life of certain groups.
If a young man or woman does not know how to
dance his or her social life is handicapped. For
that reason the center should conduct a dancing
class for beginners and engage a competent
teacher. More progress will be made by the
students if the class is limited strictly to begin-
ners. Some community centers will find it ad-
visable to conduct a social dance for its entire
membership once a month. The charge for ad—
mission should be nominal so that all the mem—
bers wishing to attend may come. A high stand-
ard of behavior should be required of every one
attending, and if this standard is set and enforced
at the first dance, there is little danger of trouble
in the future. It is advisable to have the com-
munity center council take charge of the dance.
They in turn appoint a committee to be responsi-
ble for all arrangements for the dance, selling the
tickets, arranging for the orchestra and seeing
that the members are conducting themselves pro-
perly. They must be made to realize that it is
their dance, and they are responsible for its suc-
cess or failure.

.336 DEL ELUPING THE COMMUNITY CENTER PROGRAM

The Gymnasium and Its Program. The gym-
nasium plays a part in the life of the community
center. It can dominate the program or it can take
its pr0per place in it. It is easy for the gymnasium
to assume an importance which it should not have.
\ schedule of the available times should be ar-
ranged so that the clubs wishing to use the gym-
nasium may have the opportunity. One way of
overemphasizing the importance of the gymnasium
is by organizing leagues, having spectators at
games, and devoting a great deal of time of the
staff to the supervision of gymnastic activities. If
athletics are treated sensibly the gymnasium does
not become the most important feature of the cen-
ter's program. Organized leagues should be con-
ducted in an athletic center. The community cen-
ter gymnasium should be used only by the groups
attending the center.

Athletic clubs coming to the center should be
required to hold meetings according to parlia-
mentary law. From the standpoint of education
the meeting is the essential thing for the mem—
bers of the group, and every efi'ort should be made
to see that nothing interferes with it. It is in their
business meetings that the members learn parlia-
mentary procedure, self-control, compliance with
the will of the majority and other worth while
lessons. Officials in all games played at the cen-
ter's gymnasium should be members of the center
and not of the staff. All
team 5 must show a high
standard of SI)! nrtmanship and

—- i

1.4- Jr'-

:1} :-

Mask making—one of the activities of a
drama club in a Milwaukee social center

ah: i

 

conduct. If they do not live up to this standard
they should be deprived of the privileges of the
gymnasium. The activities of the gymnasium give
the staff an opportunity to help clubs develop self-
control. learn self-government and how to abide
by the ruling of the officials. They also provide an
opportunity to bring home to the members of the
center the fact that while the gymnasium is im-
portant for physical development, it is not the
most essential activity of the center.

Gardening. It is desirable to make the sur-
roundings of the community as attractive as pos-
sible. If the center has no vacant land that can be
converted into a flower garden, every effort should
be made to achieve this. The garden will add a
charm to the surroundings of the building that
nothing else can. If the center is located in a dis-
trict of homes that have gardens, the garden will
keep it in harmony with its surroundings, If,
however, the center is located in a poor district, a
garden at the center will immediately become the
beauty spot of the neighborhood. As the com-
mUnity center garden grows and it baomes neces-
sary to thin out flowers, they can go to the people
of the district who want to have a garden but
cannot afford to buy plants. Thus the center's
garden may become the means of developing gar-
dens throughout the community.

A garden is one way of increasing the members'
pride in the center and de-
veloping their loyalty to it.
As many people as possible

I.

1!

DEVELOPING THE COMMUNITY CENTER PROGRAM 339

should be asked to help in the actual laying out of
the garden and the planting of flowers. It is sur-
prising how much personal feeling they have for a
garden if they do allittle work in it. Gardening
can be carried on with very little actual expense
to the center. In a great majority of communities
there is an organized garden club that will be
only too glad to assist in the planning and laying
out of the garden and in securing plants from its
members for the community center garden. The
only expense to the center need be the cost of a
few simple tools. Sometimes these can be ob-
tained from a seed man or hardware store.

A garden is a project that has a wide appeal,
and help is available for every phase of the pro-
ject. The garden at the center will bring returns
of joy and pleasure to its members, to every one
who passes by and to every one helping in its
development.

The Health Program. The center should spon-
sor some form of a health program. A broader
and more intensive program can be carried on in
some districts than in others. There are many
agencies in every city that will be glad to help in
the health program of the center. The state and
city health departments usually have lectures and
movies that are available; medical associations in
the city will be glad to arrange to have a com-
petent person speak on some specific phase of the
health program that the center is stressing. It may
be possible to arrange a series of lectures on home
nursing,

The Center Magazine. The center should
have some means of publicity whereby its mem-
bers can find out what is being done of general
interest, what others are doing in the center, and
can obtain ideas that they may use in their own
club work. Some form of magazine or newspaper
seems to be the best type of publication to meet
this need and to let the outside world know what
the center is doing. Such a publication can be
either a weekly, monthly or quarterly periodical,
depending on how much time can be devoted to it
and how much material and money are available.
If it is possible to publish only one issue, that
issue should be printed. The entire issue, how—
ever, can be mimeographed, a member of the cen-
ter cutting stencils on the typewriter. The publi-
cation staff will collect all materials, run the
mimeograph machine, collate and bind the issue.
The design for the cover can be made an incentive
to the members of the center to do some outstand-

ing artistic work. In each community there is
some one capable of making a cover design for
the first issue that will be above the average and
will set a high standard for future issues.

Great interest is shown in the center’s publica-
tion by the members. It is one of the best means
of showing what is being done and is a great aid
in interesting any one in the center’s activities. It
helps in securing assistance for the different ac-
tivities and gives the staff valuable training in
publishing a magazine.

The magazine is also a means of getting the
different center groups to work on projects of
general interest; it helps develop a spirit of co-
operation among the clubs of the center and can
be made a medium of developing loyalty. Pub-
lishing the magazine gives an opportunity to the
non-athletic individual to do something at which
he can win the esteem of his friends. Editing,
publishing and selling the magazine are a valuable
training for a good many members of the center.

Cooperation Essential

The center should cooperate with all existing
agencies that work in the community. A number
of these agencies have their own facilities and
equipment, some of them different from the cen-
ter’s. If possible arrangements should be made
whereby these facilities will be available to center
groups. If a private agency has a swimming pool,
every effort should be made to secure its use for
the center’s members. Other agencies, such as the
Boy and Girl Scouts, Girl Reserves and similar
organizations, are in need of club rooms where
they can carry on their programs. There should
be a close tie—up between the community center
and civic agencies in order that the center may
help meet the recreational needs of those cared for
by private agencies.

Much more should be done than is being done
in most cities to secure the cooperation of civic
clubs, such as the Rotary, Kiwanis, Lions, etc.
The members of these organizations can be of real
service to the community of which they are a part.
It should be possible to show them how they can
help by sponsoring boys’ clubs and similar activi-
ties. It is not desirable for sponsoring agencies to
offer material rewards.

The suggestions offered here by no means cover
the entire community center field. They merely
record one worker’s experiences and the policies

he has found in his particular situation to be most
helpful.

 

Municipal Tennis in Oakland

By ROD OVERTON

Supervisor of Recreation Information

11 v. to: .len' uLW 'ri-txxls,” is the. slogan of the
Recreation Department of the City of
Haldaan in talifornia, and nowhere is

there a more. fertile held for the development of

the game, for the city has a highly organized sys-
cent of publie recreation centered around its sixty-

«ix parks- and playgrounds.

In ‘V‘ptemher “’33, R \Y. Robertson. SUperin‘
tendent 0. Recreation, found the Department
[11th] with the prohltm of providing tennis ac-
ivit) for an rver increasing number of tennis
players. Enthusiasm for tennis ha:- been steadily
ntf‘t-ihlnp The ’lvmand for tenni: courts and a
“hf-r- nrugram outnumm rerl cvrrything the de-
l-m".l.|t'nf had to wit} r. \- thr result of this de—
" 91111 a ' Imprent... ixc 3t lit-me was inaugurated tn
ureamre luhs .m-‘l ((‘lluln players 1.1m an assoeia
Hut: w‘iiuh w-«ulil proud: :1 working basis for
planning “rug: my \arinur :«rrsons who were
'nown tr br- familiar Wit" the tu—nnis situation
.‘c'rt- trifle“! m for a t"lnit'rt‘n"t‘_ l’rr Moms of

w .«l tt-nnn "hills '1 ft w of the t: ~1* In itt l. players.
“a” mum v--- at I|Tf\'{llv clubs and merrhant.

dial? it tron. wind“ werr i..-lm1c-ritnthis

I l'll' l '1]: "Iflltlt‘flxc «It dialing—11nd: d 35
- '1- u '1 Lil-H I. wa. laur to he known as the

Lt

Oakland Tennis Association. The objects, as set
up by this group, were:

I. To promote inter-club play.

2. To bring together tennis clubs and individ-
uals competing in public court play.

3. To further the social activities of its mem-
bers. membership to be open to any tennis club
within the boundaries of (ireater Oakland.

This organimtion is governed by a general com-
mittee consisting of two representatives from each
member club and one representative from the
Oakland Recreation Department. The group is
divided into committees as follows: Tournament
t'ommittee. Referees Committee. Social Commit-
.t't‘, and Ranking (.ommittee. etc. The appoint-
iu-nts are made by the president and approved by
tflr- Iuaecutive Committee which consists of the
nihcers of the association.

There are no dues paid into the association with
the exception ( f one dollar a month in payment
~f thirty copies of Tennis Bre\'iti0s. a four page
.aper published once a month by the aSsociation.
Funds are raise d by conducting tournaments and
-ueial affairs.

“or of the hnest activities carried on by the
association is the round of tournaments which are

t "tinned '1 p17: If“

Swimming Pool
Design

and

Construction

NE OF THE most important
0 technical problems in the
construction of facilities
for recreation and physical edu-
cation is, without doubt, the de-

sign and construction of a modern swimming
pool.

Factors in Construction

The type of use to be made of a facility is the
one factor which should determine and guide its
planning and construction. Important factors for
consideration in swimming pool construction for
city use are:

I. The location
. Indoor or outdoor pool
Use to be made of the pool
. Space available for parking
Proximity to street car and bus service
. Type and age of people to be served
Relation to other types of recreation
eqtnpment 1n same area
8. Amount of money available
9. Safety
10. Sanitation
11. Utility of plan

The two most important of these items are
safety and sanitation. The record for swimming
accidents, fatal and otherwise, is the highest of all
activities with the exception of the automobile.
The construction of a pool free from projecting
corners, side rails and hazards caused by slippery
curbs and decks, is essential. The eight inch curb-
ing and sanitary gutter provide an easy hand hold
for the tired swimmers and assist them in climbing
out of the pool. A wide deck sloping away from
the pool, with a curb, permits of easy flushing and
greater cleanliness. Formerly all decks sloped to-

ward drains at the edge of the pool. This was one

\1  to

 

Courtesy Los Angelo: Playground and Recreation Department

By W. A. KEARNS

Superintendent of Recreation

of the most glaring mistakes made in such
architecture.

The proper location of toilets, showers and foot
pools at entrances is essential to sanitation and
cleanliness. The white tile construction is much
preferred. Even in murky water a swimmer can
be seen over tile much more readily than over any
other type of material, even a painted surface.

Another safety aid, as well as an addition to
beauty. is under water lighting, preferably located
in the walls three or four feet below the surface
of the water. Clear water, white tile and lights
make an attractive and efficient combination, and
much might be said about their contribution to
the safety of the swimmer and non-swimn‘ler.

There is considerable difference of opinion on
the part of authorities regarding the 8” by 8”
curbing which I have mentioned as desirable. I
personally prefer the curb because it provides a
good hand hold, keeps deck splashings from en—
tering the pool, makes a comfortable seat for tired
swimmers, is useful to beginners in learning to
dive, serves as anchorage for rope and float divi-
sions across the pool, and discourages sliding from
the deck into the pool.

The depth of the pool, as well as its size and
shape, should be given careful consideration. The
magnificent Olympic Pool in Los Angeles is the

341

342 SWIMMING POOL DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION

ultimate in size and depth for competition. Few
such pools will be constructed. The metric meas-
urement is practical, however, for any pool.
Twenty by forty meters constitute a large prac-
tical type pool. A slope of 10 feet at the deep end.
3 feet at the shallow with a gradual slope for 25
meters before the sharp dip to the deep end,
makes a satisfactory arrangement. This gives a
large shallow area for beginners and provides for
the water play which constitutes three-fourths of
the use of a city pool. If a smaller pool is neces-
sary. 75’ by 35' is a logical measurement. The
location of a 10 foot spring-board should be at

the center of the deep end, at a safe distance from
intervening low boards.

In planning dressing rooms and a central coun-
ter, certain fundamental facts should be kept in
mind. The towel and suit counter and ofiice
should be located directly in front of the main en-
trance with sufiicient space in the lobby to accom-
modate at least forty people. The rear of the of-
fice should open out on to the deck of the pool to
give, if possible, an unobstructed viewof the center
of the pool from the counter. This enables the
counter attendant to assist at least in safety pre-
cautions, especially at times when the number of
life guards is reduced and few people are swim-
ming. Separate entrances to locker and dressing
rooms for men and women are obviously essen-
tial. \Vindows should open from the central of-
fice into the end of each side dressing room. This
aids in supervision and service, on occasion.
directly to the dressing room. Whether the pool
is an indoor or outdoor pool it should be possible
to lock securely all possible entrances. The most
dangerous pool is. perhaps. the empty swimming
pool. There are a number of instances where
poorly locked pools were left empty. and children
and even adults have gained admission and have
(lived into the empty or partially filled pool. Empty
pools should be left lighted as well as locked.

One of the most glaring mistakes usually made
in swimming pools is not only the inadequate
space left on the decks immediately stirrounding
the pool, but the failure to provide bleaclter space
for spectators. Spectators are
of two kinds—the casual group,
parents and others, who desire
to see people in ordinary swim-
ming, and the Spectators at
times of competition exhibitions.
Balcony space should be pro-
vided with a free view of all

Mr. Kearns is Superintendcnt
of Recreation: and Direetor of
Physical Education in the city
schools of San Diego. California.
The paper presented here was
given at the district conference
hcld in Santa Barbara last April.

pool area for indoor pools. Bleachers. preferably
at the sides of outdoor pools, should be perma-
nently constructed or space left for them. In both
instances spectators should be absolutely fenced
or partitioned and in every way prevented from
walking through or standing on the pool decks.

Necessary F acilitics

The filtration plant. showers and miscellaneous
facilities. such as hair driers and vending
machines, have a very important part. The most
important of them, of course, is the filtration sys-
tem. The modern pool must have a good filtration
plant which will handle the volume of water in a
maximum of twelve hours. This includes the
heating and chlorination equipment and insures a
sanitary. safe pool.

After using various kinds of locker systems,
dressing rooms, devices for caring for valuables
and what not, I strongly endorse the individual
bag system which is used by the Recreation De-
partment of Los Angeles. It saves space, is suf-
ficient and is convenient for most patrons, and,
most important of all, makes possible the handling
of a large number of people without tying up
valuable dressing rooms and lockers. as did the
old plan.

Hair drying facilities are necessary. A laundry
should be included, and towels furnished on a
basis that will discourage or absolutely prevent the
bringing of their own towels by patrons.

A first aid room with running water, heat and
cabinets for supplies, is one of the fundamental
necessities. Ample storage space for supplies and
suitable closets for cleaning equipment and tools
should not be overlooked. Inasmuch as there is
considerable revenue possible from a concession
stand. this should be located prefereably in the
lobby. It is often combined logically with the
service counter. A good plan in a large lobby
would be the U shaped concession counter ex-
tending toward the entrance which more or less
divides the lobby, being flanked by the women's
counter and the men’s counter.

The general architectural design — and this
would follow the trends of ar-
chitecture in the community-—
would he, of course, much more
complicated in a closed swim-
ming pool than the open type.
On the Pacific Coast the mis-
sion type is the most attractive.

((mltirmnf on page 357)

i
l

Crippled Children

 

'F' __ '- h'. _ r. " " .- v. ‘E "_ 1‘ I '.'. "h-F‘. 

Courtesy Association for Aid of Crippled Children

HEN WE THINK of childhood, we think of

boys romping pell-mell over one another in

vacant lots, of girls tirelessly skipping
rope, of Christopher Robins going with Puppy
“in the hills to roll and play.” Yet there are in
the United States, by the conservative estimate of
the last \Vhite House Conference on the Child, no
less than 300,000 children who, because of
shrunken or missing limbs, crooked backs or un-
sound bones, do not fit into these pictures of
ordinary youth. For them to have the play ex-
periences vital to a balanced, normal childhood,
without danger to weak muscles or spines, their
recreation must be carefully planned and
supervised.

Crippled children, however, do not want to play
emasculated games which emphasize their differ-
ence from their brothers and sisters. And those
engaged in work for the maimed encourage this
attitude, having found that the more nearly nor-
mal the play activities of the physically handi-
capped are, the easier it is for them to avoid de-
velopment of psychological handicaps. The recre-
ational problem of organizations serving crippled
children is not to find new and different games
for them but to provide trained supervisors to
lead them in their play and adapt ordinary games
to their limited abilities.

at Play

By ELEANOR BOYKIN
New York City

Information recently assembled
by the Committee on Cripples of the
\Velfare Council of New York City
reveals that baseball is the leading

a“; recreational activity in institutions
for the crippled in the metropolitan
district. \Vith few exceptions, the

country homes and camps for crippled children
around New York feature baseball, and at the
Crippled Children’s Free School in the midst of
New York’s East Side an indoor version of the
game is played on the school roof, with those who
cannot participate taking turns as umpires.

In playing the game, the young victims of in—
fantile paralysis, spinal curvatures, and bone tu—
berculosis make no concessions to crutches and
braces. The strictest sand-lot rules are followed,
except that a boy or girl with good legs may run
for a batter who has only good arms.

It is not unusual for the baseball enthusiasts in
an institution to challenge the village boys’ team
to a game or a series. At the New York Rotary
Club's Camp Cheerful on Fire Island, where
competitive baseball is played throughout the sum-
mer, the handicapped youngsters have never lost
a game to the normal boys.

Football, minus tackling, is another popular
sport at this camp, and volley ball, bat hand ball,
boxing, and racing are all included in the athletic
contests. The opponents in wrestling matches
tussle sitting down, but they follow the intercol-
legiate rules, nevertheless! Those responsible for
the camp’s activities see a relationship between
its comprehensive, body— and character-building
recreational program and the fact that no boys

343

344 CRIPPLED CHILDREN AT PLAY

who have had an outing at Camp Cheerful in the
five years of its existence have been brought be-
fore the juvenile courts on any charge.

Croquet and tennis are favorite games of the
cripples at the Lulu Thorley Lyons summer home
conducted at Claverack, New York, by the \Valter
Scott Free Industrial School, the tempo of the
play being adjusted to the agility of the players.
At St. Agnes’ Hospital for Crippled Children at
\‘l'hite Plains, an institution of the Catholic Chari-
ties of New York City, roller skating on a cement
rink is one of the principal outdoor amusements.

In connection with its vocational training
classes, the Institute for the Crippled and Dis-
abled carries on a year-round recreational pro-
gram. A playroom fitted out with gymnastic
equipment and game tables is open every after-
noon from four-thirty to six with a supervisor
in charge. During the summer, picnics are ar-
ranged when the physically handicapped young
people contest in one-legged and two-legged races,
tug-of-war, and other active games besides base-
ball which is always the principal event of the
day. Dances are given throughout the winter, and
to these normal boys and girls are invited. The
lame and the straight dance together, paying no
attention to breaks in rhythm, and the non-par-
ticipating visitor soon ceases to be conscious of the
difference from ordinary dances.

The class in tap dancing at the Crippled Chil-
dren's East Side Free School is always filled.
Many boys and girls with braced legs or mis-
shapen backs have, in learning to jig, lost their
fear of physical handicaps. Drop in at this school
any afternoon, and you will find the large roof
playground thronged with boys and girls playing
various games under the guidance of a social
worker. One afternoon it will be the boys’ turn
to have the floor, and among the ball or bean bag
throwers you will see every
type of cripple-—-0ne with
congenitally m al fo rm ed
hands and feet, one with
Potts' disease, one with
marks of infantile paralysis
-—each competing in the play
without the slightest con-
sciousness of his handicap.
The girls meanwhile play at
the tables which line the wall
the seated games —- parchesi.
iackstraws, puzzles, dominoes
and cards. The floor space

tnnilies.

Crave Reader.

“ll is unfortunate that limited funds
have eansed many homes for disabled
children to dispense with a director
of leisure time activities and eonse-
qnenlly In eurlail active play Oppor-
In some instances, volun-
teers have olTered help in the emer-
geney. but they cannot supply the full ties of the
need. For an agency ministering to
erippled children to have the right
nor! of recreational program, provi-
sinn for equipment and a play unper-
visnr mnsl he made. in the Widget."—

will be theirs for active games the next day. The
normality of the play and the joyousness of the
players makes pity for the abnormal bodies seem
out of place.

In all institutions for the crippled, dramatics
are one of the most popular and helpful forms of
recreation. Spectators do not think it strange if
a pirate swaggers on the stage supported by
crutches, or if a princess is wheeled into the court-
room. And many young cripples, finding they
can interpret a stage character, lose their feeling
of inferiority. Period plays are usual because cos-
tumes can often hide every evidence of afiiiction.
Even ballets are given by crippled children’s
groups, when there is some one to plan them, each
child taking such part as his or her range of
movement makes possible.

The “Mikado” was given last summer by the
children in the Spring Valley summer home of the
New York Philanthropic League, rehearsals in
the evenings alternating with campfire games. At
\‘l'avecrest Home on Long Island, an institution
of the Brooklyn Children's Aid Society, the dra-
matic event of the spring was a performance of
“The King’s Henchman,” given with portions of
the music on the phonograph. In addition to a
greater appreciation of musical and dramatic art.
one outgrowth of the production was an increase
in courtesy among the children, resulting from the
social training of deferential speeches addressed
to “My Lord" or “My Lady."

Because of its socializing influence, music has a
leading part in recreational programs for children
set apart from others by afliiction. Group sing-
ing is a feature in all institutions for the crip-
pled, and many have bands with one-armed bass
drummers and one-legged trtnnpeters as well.
The band of St. Giles, a home for crippled chil-
dren maintained by Long Island Diocese of the
Protestant Episcopal Church,
took second prize last sum-
mer at the county fair in
competition with school
bands. A crippled boys' band,
which furnishes music for
dramatic entertainments, is
one of the recreational activi-
Convalescent
llome for Hebrew Children
at Rockaway Park, Long
Island. Very small children
fettered by braces and sup-

(Conu'mm! on page 353)

HacMumay Conan “bar,

A Toy Shop For Children of Dayton

By DOROTHY J. MACLEAN

Secretary for Younger Girls
Young Women's Christian Association

Dayton, Ohio.

8 THE first step in the development of our
A toy shop project, we held a toy shower
which was handled by the Committee on
'Work with Yotmger Girls. In securing the toys
donations were requested in four of the schools
of Dayton, in two of which the association had
clubs and in the other two previous contacts with
the principals. The newspapers were used rather
extensively for publicity.

The shop was opened on january 12th with a
total of eighteen children registering. Interest
has grown until we now have 73 borrowers, 36
boys and 37 girls. The shop is open on Friday
afternoon of each week from 3 :30 to 5 :00 o’clock.
it is under the supervision of a member of the
Younger Girls’ Committee, assisted by another
volunteer and a committee of seven girls.

The Procedure

A white card is made out for each toy and the
corresponding number is attached to the toy with
adhesive tape. The information asked for on the
card is as follows:

TOY LENDING SHOP
DAYTON, OHIO
Y. W. C. A.

KIND OF Tor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

NUMBER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Date Date
Age Group Name of Child Address Borrowed Returned Condition"

O O o O O 0 0 O O O o O O O O l O O O 0 O t O O O O O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 0 O t o O o.
t o o O O 0 0 O O o b o O 0 O O O O t o o o o o O o o o c o o o l o o o o c o o o o o o o o o o o o o o a.

1 O o O I O 0 0 O O I O o o o O 0 O O O o o o b O o O O o o o o o O 0 o o o o o o o o o o o o o O o t O o o

 

' CONDITION—D. Damaged; E. Excellent; F. Fair; G. Good.

Miss MacLean writes that after
seeing the article in the Novem-
ber issue of RECREATION telling
about thc New York Toyery, she

decided to work out a similar
plan as a year-round service
project in connection with the
program for younger girls.

 

\Vhen the child comes to the shop, he takes
his chosen toy to the desk and the worker on duty
takes his name, address and age and the toy num-
ber on a mimeographed pink sheet which reads as
follows:

TOY LENDING SHOP
DAYTON, OHIO

Y. W. C. A.
Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Age . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Toy No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

The information on this slip is then transferred
to the white card which is filed. When the child
takes out a toy, the card in the master file is
marked with a green signal; when the toy is re-
turned this signal is removed. If the toy is not
returned at the end of a week a red signal is
added to the green one, and a notice is sent the
child. If the toy is not brought back the follow-
ing week it is sent for.

Dolls are loaned out on a rather different basis
from the other toys which the children take out
for a week and then return. We put the dolls
on the shelves without clothes, but provide a box
of cloth and materials from which the child may
choose material to make a dress for her (1011.
She is required to bring the doll back each week
for six weeks so that we may check on the prog-
ress made in the dressmaking. At the end of six
weeks the doll is hers if she has given it proper
care.

We find that the larger toys are the best liked,
and we have a long reserve list for some of them.

(Continued on. page 358)

345

How to Succeed at Parties

m: GENERALITY of men, which is another and
T rather more stylish way of saying “most peo-

ple,” go to parties either (a) anxious to avoid
making fools of themselves, or (b) determined to
be the life and soul of the thing from the moment
they arrive (wearing a false nose and tripping
humorously over the mat) on the doorstep. I
shall deal with Class (b) first, partly because I
can no langer contain my indignation against the
revolting attitude of mind that membership of
this class implies.

If common sense instead of convention dic-
tated the preliminary negotiations for (at least)
the more informal type of evening function. every
invitation in which I had a say would be accom-
panied by a questionnaire including among many
others the following questions:

“Do you know, and have you at any time per-
formed any tricks with matches?"

“W'ould you be prepared on the slightest pro-
vocation to organize the cleanly and enjoyable
game of bobbing for apples: and, if so, have you
any particularly ingenious and mirth-provoking
forfeits to suggest for the beneFIt of the worst
performer, whose name I need not specify ?"

“Do you sing comic songs ?"

“Is it in your opinion essential to the proper
enjoyment of the evening that I should have to
bend right over backwards in the presence of a
large audience and try to pick pins out of the
carpet with my teeth, while that horrible Blowson
woman makes remarks about the lining of my
waistcoat ?"

“W'ould you be so kind as to hold forth at
great length and halfway through the game about
the other (and more correct) way of playing
rununy that you learned on board ship ?"

”\\"as it you who suggested, at that intolerable
affair at the Pattersons last
Christmas. that we should all
go out in our paper-hats and
sing carols outside the police
station?"

“Have you ever owned or
wished to own any kind of
imitation inkstain, synthetic

346

Though we run the risk of incurring
the charge of heresy, and the no less
terinns one of frivolity. as well. we are
nevertheless venturing to publish this
delightful hit of satire, which is re-
printed by permission of the Pro-
prietors of Punch, London.

rubber beetle, mechanised mouse or Harmless
and Original Joke of any variety whatsoever 3’"

“And finally, will you promise to lead us all
off into the dining room for a game of blow-foot-
ball just when we are all wondering whether we
still have strength enough left to get to bed ?”

Any person answering "Yes" to all—0r indeed
any—of these questions would of course be rig-
orously refused admission “on the night." But
this, after all, is no more than a cherished dream.
and those who wish to bully their way to success
by the hideous methods I have indicated will, I
suppose, continue to be allowed to do so. You
will not expect me surely to help them on their
joyless course by discribing Fifty First-Class
Match-Tricks or The Great Bamboozle of 1933
—-Try it on Uncle!

“None the less," you will say, “much as we de-
test the kind of man who voluntarily gets up and
makes a buf'fOOn of himself before the company,
there are times when we ourselves are forced
through the pressure of public opinion to follow
suit, and what are we to do then? Here, if any-
where, is a point on which your assistance and
advice would be gratefully received.”

I know exactly what you mean. During a lull
in the guessing-games that crass idiot Percival
(who has probably learned a new card-trick and
wants to show it off) says why shouldn't we have
an entertainment and everyone contribute an
item? The suggestion is greeted with an en-
thusiasm which shows that a single dissentient
voice would gain not a semblance of a hearing.
The .\|errick family would love to do a Charade;
old Robinson will oblige with a song; Miss Cur-
tis has already dashed upstairs to prepare for her
well-know impersonation of Mrs. Pankhurst; and
so the dismal orgy begins. Percival does his
trick (at the third attempt),
Robinson is in excellent
voice, .\Iiss Curtis surpasses
herself, and even that objec-
tionable little man, Richards.
brings the house down with
his Impression of an Engine-

(f'untiuued on page 358)

Tennis Technique

thirty tennis courts in

Chicago; today there
are seven hundred fifty, and these are not suf-
ficient to meet the demand for play on the part
of old and young of both sexes. A similar state-
ment might be made concerning many other cities
in the United States. Not only are outdoor courts
on the increase but many cities are developing in—
door courts as well.

IN 1905 there were only

\Vhat are some of the reasons for the popu-
larity of this game?
1. It is a game that one can continue to play through-
out life.
2. One can usually choose opponents of his own ability.
. Both sexes can play together.

4. It gives a maximum amount of physical activity in a
short period.

5. Unlike most team games, it requires only two indi-
viduals for competition.

6. It is not an expensive type of recreation.
7. In_ addition to giving opportunity for physical activity,
it also promotes soc1al intercourse.

8. Perfection of teehnique continues to challenge even
the better tennis players.

b.)

\Vhat can a physical director or recreational
director do to contribute to the development of
this game in his community? We may not have
courts adjoining our building or in the immediate
neighborhood, but I believe there are boys and
men in our membership and groups of young men
and women in churches and clubs who would ap-
preciate some help from the local physical
director. No one likes to be a “dub” or to remain
at the same level of ability for a long period, and
so we will find ready listeners if we are willing
to contribute our knowledge and ability in the
furtherance of this sport. Dr. Jacks, in Educa-
tion Through Recreation, says: “Satisfaction in
any activity is directly in pro—
portion to the amount of skill
in that activity.” If this be
true, then we should be will-
ing to aid individuals for the
sake of allowing them to get
greater satisfaction from this
outdoor sportsman’s game.

1. The physical director can urge
old and young of both sexes
to learn to play this whole-
some summer game.

By H. D. EDGREN, Ph.B.. M.P.E.

It is not customary for RECREATION
to carry such technical material as
this article discusses, but there is
so much interest in tennis at pub-
lic recreation centers that we be-
lieve many of our readers will wel-
come the exceedingly practical
suggestions offered. Mr. Edgren is
Assistant Professor of Physical
Education at the George \Villiams
College, Chicago.

2. He can lend his support
and help in the develop-
ment of tennis clubs

within the Association.
3. He can teach methods and drills for indoor practice.

4. He can demonstrate good technique in the various
fundamentals of the game.

5. He can advise on the selection of tennis equipment for
beginners.

6. He can deve10p courses of instruction and practice for
beginners and advanced pupils.

In the author’s experience, tennis players in
every community fall into three categories. name-
ly, beginners, average players, and players of
superior ability.

I will attempt to point out some weaknesses and
difficulties encountered by players in each of these
groups and to offer some suggestions to counter-
act these difficulties.

Suggestions to Beginners

1. Choose the best racquet you can afford; be sure it is
light enough that you can swing it and move it
from forehand to backhand Without any difficulty.

Keep racquet in press when not in use, and keep it
away from any metsture.

2. The court is a definite size; the net is a definite height;
so keep your eyes on the mov1ng objectwthe ball.

3. Grasp the handle of the racquet so that the heel of
the hand presses against the leather at the end of
the racquet. There are two general grips:

Eastern grip: Stand the racquet on its side,
with the face of the racquet at right angles to the
ground; shake hands with it and you have the fore-
hand grip. In backhand of this grip one hits the
ball from the Opposite side of the racquet, with a
slight turning of the handle clockwise (most of the
better players use this grip, notably Tilden and
Vines).

W'estern grip: Lay the racquet flat on the ground
and pick it up. You now have the forehand grip.
The backhand is hit from the same side of the
racquet by turning the forearm slightly counter—
clockwise.

4. There is a tendency for beginners to hit all balls while
facing the net. Await all returns facing the net, so
as to be ready to shift to forehand or backhand, but

when hitting the ball stand at right
angles or sideways to the way you
are going to hit the ball. This al-
lows a full swing and enables one
to shift the weight from the back
to the front foot for the follow
through. It also adds the weight
of the body to the stroke.

5. \Vhere should the ball be hit?

In the forehand stroke hit the
ball just opposite your body, be-
tween your two legs, with a push
stroke. In the backhand stroke the
ball is hit about opposite the front
or right foot, with a pull stroke.

347

348 TENNIS TE C H N! Q UE

 

6. Hitting the ball.

Secure a firm grip of the racquet at the time of im-
pact with the ball and hold the racquet parallel to
the net and at right angles to the direction in which
you are trying to place the ball.

7. The first stroke to practice is the simple ground stroke
where you hit the ball on the first bound. for in
actual play you hit more of this kind than any other.
Remember the tendency is to attempt to play all
balls too fast. Take time to allow the ball to
bounce and to come part way down before meeting
your racquct. '

8. Accuracy and good placement should be the goal of
every beginner; speed should come later.

Drift Stunts for Beginners (Praetiee Suggestions)

1. “’ith left side toward the net and proper grip on
the racquet. swing at an imaginary ball. stressing the
shift of weight from the back to the front foot.

2. Repeat above in the backhand position.

3. Now drop a ball in front of you but swing just over
the ball (backhand and forehand positions).

4. Stand facing the net and then pivot on back (right)
foot before making the ground stroke. Repeat for back-
hand. pivoting on left foot.

5. Xext. drop a hall in front of you and far enough
out to allow a full swing. Then hit the ball easy against
a wall or in the general direction of a partner about
twenty feet away.

6. Repeat \Io. 5. using backhand stroke. if this is not
"one continuously vou will become a forehand player
- n1}

5'. You can met. make it more difiicult by drawing a
target on the wall above the height ‘f the net. If a wall
is not used. have your partner tak. different positions
and attempt tr hit the hall to him.

R Have y ttr partner tr a hall 1'. your right: then
rm. ve to p. titi n ..nrl get at only afttr the lall has hit
the serum". Repeat his lry receivnng the thrown hall on

.1“ ch t~ ora- ti- the backhand .trrwke as well.

lime aur partner mix the "all he throws by hav-

v we h‘l left \r right, “. rt ur it n; farting you to
e re..i f'-1 on" all.

1” I": '“1" l 5]"? din“: “rat sir"!

meeting a ital]

r. .- ' II . ' I: 5.: “rue t--act.uet urn: tgain'I 1 fart l all.

n. . wt. um i: |' Plan» part '. anwt twentv

- t ' I a.» th ,1. it m are u. - atr- ke‘ to one
“I. l

1' 0 .mx “it. . ‘ .. ma if m 't ne‘l b) “Ittfing

t . in: ’ .n .mothe. a. l .tllegtng. Interest

There are many reasons For the popularity
of tennis with both city and rural people.

in this drill may be increased by seeing how many strokes
can be made vvtthout a mtss.

( I am purposely omitting a discussion of the
techniques of the various strokes for want of suf-
ficient space to deal adequately with it.)

Suggestions to the Ar'erage Player

This hypothetical player uses all the known
strokes, covers the court fairly well, and wins 50
per cent of his games. However, here are some
of his tendencies:

1. On the service he tosses the ball no higher than his
head. and he tries to kill the first ball.

2. He is most often between the back line and the serv-
ice line.

3. On all strokes he waits to see if his ball went in the
court

He often goes to the net position immediately after his
service. regardless of the pOsition of his opponent.
He plays two-thirds of his strokes with his forehand.
He has a tendency to play in extremes; he is over-

cautious or reckless.
He does not watch to see what kind of stroke his op-
ponent places on the hall.
. He volleys many balls that could he better played as
a ground stroke.

1f the above tendencies are found, the follow-

ing suggestions may help to correCt them:

I. Play the 'will as high as you can reach and thereby
increase the size (-f the serving area in yt ur opponent's
court. Stress aecuracy in your service. and increase
speed only after accuracy is deveIOped.

2. liack court position is behind the baseline. and net
rusitim is between «ervice line and net. Be in one place
’ r tut other

3. After every stroke. maneuver to CM'CI your court.
He in a position in line with your r)pponent's position.
fr \ straight line ball is harder to cover than a cross
rvurt ihfli.

4. in t: the net position only when you have a right
h. arsume the theme as a result of your stroke or the

it" n of your epponent.

to.“ng

TENNIS TECHNIQUE 3.49

5. If you desire to become proficient in tenms, master
the backhand stroke. Mastery comes only by continued
practice. If the ball is returned to your left, use your
backhand always.

6. Under—play and pressing are two difficulties which
must he overcome by the average player. Remember you
are going contrary to your built-up habits of play when
you try to be too careful and under-play your strokes.
Pressing is sacrificing accuracy for added speed, which
so often is unnecessary.

7. What happens to the ball when it hits the ground
on your side of the court is determined by the kind of
stroke made by your opponent. It is, therefore, necessary
to watch your opponent’s stroke if you are to be ready
to return the ball properly.

8. In general, all volleying should be done between
the service line and the net. If the ball is too high for
one to reach when standing on the service line, it will
probably go out of bounds, and if not, you have time to
go back and play a ground stroke. '

Suggestions to the Superior Player

There are usually types within this group of
players on the upper level. They are called—de-
fensive players; aggressive offense players; and,
those who have a happy combination of both of-
fense and defense tactics.

The following suggestions should only be given
to players who have mastered the general tech-
nique of strokes, court position, and play
strategy.

1. The greater the spin the less speed on the ball, and
vice versa. For a speed stroke, put only enough spin on
the ball to bring the ball into opponent’s court.

2. The higher the ball is played above the net, the less
spin is required on the ball. If a player is constantly
driving the ball behind baseline, have him add spin. If

his drives are hitting the net, have him put less spin on
the ball.

3. Use offense strokes such as tOp-spin drive and
smash only when you are in good position. Use defense
strokes such as volley and lob to gain control and re-
cover your position.

4. A top-spin on the ball tends to make it drop, while
a cut or a slice tends to make it rise.

5. The law of physics, “The angle of incidence is equal
to the angle of reflection,” must be considered and boun-
teracted against by the angle of the face of the racquet.
Keep in mind that the face of your racquet should
always be at right angles to the intended path of the ball.

6. It is more difficult to chop a stroke than it is to
chop a top—spin stroke. In the former, one must put an

opposite spin on the ball, while in the latter the same
spin 15 added to the ball.

7._Assume a net position about half-way between the
service hne and the net only when you have gained the

right by your stroke or by the poor position of your
opponent

8. In the doubles game, play alongside of your partner,

both up or both back, and keep your court equally
divided between the two players.

Corrections and criticism of players can be
more readily made if facts regarding their play
are actually obtained and recorded after observa-
tion. The following blank may be used to record
the play of a man in competition.

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Upponent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Score . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SERVICE:

ACE coon 1XTo NET BEHIND LINE

I—for first ball. 2—for second ball.

VOLLEY:
PT. GOOD m'ro NET BEHIND LINE

'l l l

I—for each stroke

GROUND STROKE:

PT. . GOOD BEHIND LINE

I—for each stroke
The objective testing of individuals in any ac—

tivity is a means of ascertaining their present abil-
ity and can be used to measure their progress
over a given period.

The following tests will enable a director to test
the ability and progress of any tennis player.
(These tests are developed for indoors.)

 

 

 

INTO NET

 

 

Test No. l—Accuracy Serving Test. Player
serves 5 balls at a chart 39 feet away. The chart
is three feet from the floor, and is two feet high,
and ten feet wide, and divided into five equal

parts, with three different scores in the sections.
Start

3‘ l

Grade by recording the total score made on 5 attempts.

Test No. 2—Speed. The player stands I 5 feet
away from a wall which is free from any pro-
jections. Bounce the ball and hit it against the
wall, and record the number of times the ball is
returned during a 15—second period. Use ground
stroke or volley.

Test No. S—Ground Stroke Accuracy fore-
hand stroke). A chart 9 x 27 is made across the
net, with the baseline of the court being the far
side of the rectangle. It is divided into three equal
parts, each being 9 feet wide and 9 feet long.
Center square scores 5 points, and each side

(Continued on page 359)

Unwelcome

Leisure
Put to
Welcome Use

ng‘

gr

By HELEN CENTER

{ Barter" .5. . Fun. .

hue" sucks, a few old stare lmxes, or some
(odds and ends uf last year‘s clothing? We
all wandered. But the ash—can man has slim pick-
ings these (lays, down aruund the Seventh and
llryant htreets neighborhood of San Franeisen.

WHAT (‘.\N be done with um ur twu “peek-a-

 

 

(\fil’f'atl' n t." msmissz'on

The men and women of the neighborhood are
seeing to that!

“'9 happened to he wandering by, in our care-
tree way, and noticing and hearing the buzz and
hum, stopped in to see what it was all about. \\'c
found mrseh'es just in time for an exhibition of
arts and crafts, given by the
classes in furniture making,
rug weaving. hasketry, metal
work, needlecraft and just
plain old-fashioned dress-
making. The store boxes
hat] hecmne beds, chairs,
h u reaus, stands, chests,
tables, ltnluh} -l'lHl'St:'-r -\\'ell,
ex'eqtltirag hut store buses!
The "peek a-l): ( I" stuekings
wen skillfully intertwined
with the odds and ends uf
-'lnthing and, In and. hehultl,
they had lu-wnu grail} pat-
wrucvl rug-J Tables wt re.
A: weretl with Mautrful sam-
uh.- "f lwaskr‘ weaving and
hammer: (] hr. v. w :rk‘. [1-s-
tuning the u .1”? m-re 71c w
"run tail-ure l -un~= fur v'hil-
Iron and grr wt: ups, MICC
iltl suits aur' werrmtts. \nd

‘1: l f "

\X/ORLD AT PLAY

 

ONE of the most
interesting develop—
ments in Allentown,
Pennsylvania, is the
amphitheater constructed out of a side of a hill
and a swamp. The terraces of the bowl will
seat 5,000 people and the flat land in front of
the stage 2,000. The stage is 110’ long and
62’ wide. In the front it is supported by a beau—
tiful dry masonry wall which contains small
recesses here and there to be planted with rock
plants. The wings on either side will be en-
closed with high plants, and the stage itself
can be changed in size by movable screens of
shrubbery which are being planted in huge
boxes on low, Hat wheels.

Allentown’s New
Amphitheater

 

 

ACCORDING to the
Little Theater Maga-
zine of June, 1934, is-
sued by the Los An-
geles County Drama Association, 150 actors,
actresses and theater technicians have been
employed under the State Relief Administra—
tion drama project. The units were composed
of a male chorus, a women’s chorus, a Negro
chorus, three one-act play producing groups, a
major production unit which will present full
length drama, a vaudeville producing unit, and
an avocational unit offering professional leader-
ship of groups open free of charge to the pub-
lic for activities in the various fields of dra-
matic arts. Many of these entertainment units
are available for appearances before public
meetings where no admission charge is made.

Drama Activities
In California

 

IN June, Utica, New
York, dedicated its
newest and largest
w a d i n g pool con-
structed partly as a gift from the Utica Play—
ground Association and partly from city funds.
The pool has been named in honor of Miss Ida
J. Butcher, one of the first to work for play—
grounds in Utica. On the curbing of the pool

Utica’s Memorial
Wading Pool

is a small bronze tablet bearing the inscrip-
tion: “A tribute to Ida J. Butcher, pioneer in
playground work.” At the dedication of the
pool there were present a number of city offi-
cials and officers of the Playground Associa-
tion, founded in 1899 and still active in pro-
nioting the city's recreation work conducted
by the Department of Recreation. The pool,
oval in shape and about 150’ by 50’ in size, is
located at the Harry V. Quinn Playground,

named after one of the city’s \Vorld W'ar
soldiers.

THERE is a little
one room club house
—in reality a voting
booth—0n the edge of
the Monroe Playground in Niles, Ohio, which is
occupied by the Monroe Progress Club, an organi-
zation limited to youths in that particular section
of the city. The members of this club have made
it their objective to improve the playground. They
have planted trees around the playground and
they have cleared from the grounds all the
rubbish, glass and stones that once disfigured
it. They have dug pits for horseshoe courts
and aided the recreation director in laying out
two baseball diamonds on the grounds, and
they are taking an active interest in civic af—
fairs, attending council meetings and reporting
to their councilmen the needs of their particu—
lar street or district.

Their Own
Club

 

FROM July 30th to
August 4th the
League of Arts and
Crafts of New Hamp-
shire held at the Crawford Notch House a
craftsmen’s fair. A large barn on the property
provided space for groups of craftsmen at
work, while the stalls housed exhibits of their
products. A small blacksmith shop was the
scene of a forge in action with an artist in
wrought iron showing his skill. Throughout
the week visitors saw a potter at his wheel, a

351

A Gathering
of Craftsmen

 

352 IVORLD AT PLA Y

FUN FOR HALLOWE'EN

O Ghosts, witches, and iortune tellers
all make their appearance at this
merry party prepared by Drama
Service of the National Recreation
Association. There are stunts as
well, a playlet for men and an-
other for girls. All you need for an
evening of fun on Halloween will
be found in this bulletin.

Price 25 cents

HALLOWE'EN GAMBOLS

0 Fl delightful revel by Marion Hol-
brook. Mephistopheles, as host.
attended by the imps, Scrunch and
Munch, entertain ghosts, goblins,
witches, Iack-o'-lanterns and other
Hallowe'en folk. Fit the end of the
revel come the mortals who dance
and make merry.

Price 10 cents

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue N ew York City

weaver at her loom, a needleworker, a basket
maker, a wood carver and other artists, each in
a section devoted to that c'raft. An especially
interesting feature was a demonstration of veg-
etable dyeing with the old vegetable dyes
which were in use a century or two ago. Other
features at the fair included country dances,
a chorus singing old favorites, and small pag-
eants or tableaux illustrating the different

crafts.

Milton's Park—Milton, Massachusetts, is to
be congratulated on the possession of Cunning-
ham Park, the gift of Mrs. Mary Abbot Forbes
Cunningham. The park was established in
October, 1904. five months after the death of
Mrs. Cunningham. The park is administered
by a board of trustees, and the citizens of
Milton have without charge the use of a swim-
ming pool, a S pa c i ou s gymnasium, tennis
courts, two basketball fields and the football
gridiron, bowling alleys and a bowling green.
In the winter there is a skating pond of a doz-
en or so acres, a hockey rink, toboggan slides
and special areas for sledding.

A Festival in Westchester County—Last
summer the \\'estchester \\'orksh0p of the
\\'estchester County Recreation Commission
sponsored a pageant commemorating the 650th
anniversary of the Pied Piper of Hamlin. The
pageant was held in the little theater of the
County Center in White Plains under the di-
rection of Edna May Rigdon, director of the
\\'estchester Children’s Theater Guild of
Bronxville. Children from su mm e r play-
grounds all over the county took part in the
pageant, making their own scenery and cos-
ttnnes. The old scene made famous by Robert
Browning’s poem was dramatized by Miss
Rigdon.

Salem’s Pageant Series -- Iiach Saturday
throughout the summer Salem, Massachusetts,
presented a series of pageants depicting the life
of the pioneers who settled Salem three hun-
dred years ago. All the scenes took place in
the pioneers’ village. erected in 1930, which
served as a background for a pageant of Gov-
ernor \\'inthrop's arrival with the Massachu-
setts charter. The program was sponsored by
the Park Department assisted by such organ-
izations as the Kiwanis Club, the Rotary Club,
Chamber of Commerce, \Vomen's Clubs. the
American Legion, the local D.:\.R. Chapter,
the Salem Garden Club and the Privateers’
Dramatic Club.

Activities in Birmingham—The Park and
Recreation Board of Birmingham, Alabama,
Operated fourteen playgrounds for white resi-
dents from 2 :00 I’. M. until dark with a weekly
attendance of 10,000 people. Four centers were
Open six nights each week with an attendance
of 3,000. Keen interest has been taken in
beautifying and furnishing these community
centers. At one of the centers a room has
been entirely refurnished by neighbors. At an-
other a stage has been built the material and
labor for which were donated.

RUSTIC LAWN FURNITURE

Mountain Handcraft—4 pint lawn and pout: In (omitting of than
than and table. A beautiful m made he. ll" mountain willow.

Complete u! for only $12.50

Cash with order

RUSTIC FURNITURE SUPPLY CO.
Malol. Vqulnla

 

i

‘I- '

SAFE PLACE TO PLA
wiihf/w’ PROPE '
EQUIPMEN

American Play Equipment ls Preferred By Recreati
Directors In Municipalities From COAST to COA!

THE greater popularity of American
Play Equipment is the result of many
years of study. survey and engineering ex—

   

of America's youth! The rugged
struction quality materials
safety features used in American E:
ment assure all users many years 01
most highly satisfactory service.

perience. American Devices are designed
and constructed to fulfill the requirements

SEND TODAY FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE R-l8

REPLACE WORN OUT
EQUIPMENT NOW
The American line is com-
plete and includes every
device which is practical
and safe for playgrounds.

0 AN DERSONJNDIANA um

 

now and make them safe
for the children of your
community.

 

 

 

are safe and practical for swimming pools and

In Spite of a Fire

N Tm: MIDDLE of one of its busiest seasons the
American Playground Device Company of
Anderson, Indiana, suffered a fire which ('lestroyed
a portion of its extensive plant: The fire. which
started early in the morning, had gained consid—
erable headway before it was checked. The com-
pany, however. is living up to its long established
reputation for prompt shipments. and even in the

face of the [ire is making immediate shipments on
the complete line of swimming pool and play-
ground equipment. J. E. \Vilkins, General Man-
ager of the firm, has stated: “\\'e are making our
usual prompt and complete shipments on all
orders and are actively engaged in plans for new
construction." He has further announced that
this has been one of the best years the American
Playground Device Company has ever enjoyed.
Mr. \Vilkins feels that this increase in business is
a reflection of a better business trend throughout
the country.

The American Playground Device Company
manufactures a complete array of devices which

e

playgrounds. The firm has a country-wide repu-
tation for strong, durable and safe equipment.

Among Our Folks

AYMUND R. How, formerly Assistant Super-
R intendent of Recreation, Playground and
Recreation Department, Los Angeles, ('alifornia,
has resigned from the Department to become
State Director of Transient Training and Recre-
ation under the California State I‘lmergency Re-
lief .-‘\(‘lministration. ;\.l r. Hoyt's res1.u)11sil)ilit_\ will
be to provid * an interesting and constructive pro-
gram of education and recreation for the many
transient camps and shelters which dot the state.

Miss \iiola 1’. Armstrong. who for many years
was associated with the Detroit. Michigan, De—
partment of Recreation, in charge of social recre-
ation, last spring resigned to become social recrea—
tion organizer with the Gleaner Life Insurance
Company whose headquarters are in Detroit. Miss
Armstrong’s work will take her to all sections of
Michigan, as well as to a number of other states.
where she will assist the local arbors or lodges.

353

354 .ilAGAZI.VES AND PAMPHLETS "w .

Magazines and Pamphlets ammundllq

1 Recently Received Containing Articles l
of interest to the Recreation Worker

PHYSICAL EDUCATION
HEALTH and RECREATION

The Journal of Adult Education, June 1934 G

Mind Your Own Leisure, by Frederick Paul Keppel .
, R New Publication
Parks and Recreation, July 1934

 

Rugged Individualism and Community Beautihca- (first issue. October 180
tion, by R. C. Morrison . .
Can Recreation Areas Be Made Beautiful As Well camg condensed versmns Oi fun'han-h
As Useful? by Ernest K. Thomas articles appearing in leading professional
Parks and Recreation. August 1934 and non-professional periodicals-
Concessions in City Parks, by Robert Moses .
The Design and Construction of Golf Courses, by O O .
Robert J. Ross An opportunity to get, in pocket-Size,
Th, AWN-“n (my, August 1934 the gist of thirty to forty articles from
Standards for Bacterial Quality of Water at Natural Various mCIQCIZineS. to keep abreast Oi

Bathing Places, by G. C. Houser

. the times in Recreation, and to know
A New Safety Seat for Swrngs

. . what is happening in the related fields
7’" AWN” CW, Serum“? 1934 of Physical Education and Health.
There Is Hope Even for the County, by Henry S.
Curtis .

Scholastic Coach. September 1934 Edited by
A New American Dance Center, by Martha Hill

Playthings. September 1934
Adult Games Among One of Seven Hundred Ways

Charles D. Giauque
Professor of Physical Education

 

to pass Time Boston University
The Parents' Magazine. July 1934 .
A Planned Vacation, by Margaret M. Miner Advisory Board
Mabel C. Bragg Boston University
The Sporl‘woman' June I934 C. H. McCloy iowa State University

Ride a Good Hobby, Out of the Rut, by Barbara 1-, c, Mchck.“

.. . . . Ohio University
hllcn Joy and Virginia Anderton Lee

Iay B. Nash New York University
Public Health Nursing. July 1934 N. P. Neiison Stanford University
Playtime, by Ethel Bowers Delbert Oberteulier Ohio State University
Leisure, July 1934 Frederick Rand Rogers Boston University
The Fine Art of Loaang b R be t Ca . k A. I. Stoddard Providence. Rhode Island
. y o r me
play, and Pagan“, by Hannibal Towlc Iesse Pairing Williams Columbia University
Parks and Recreation, June 1934 """""""""" ................ H
“'11:” Shall “re Do with This Xe“. Leisure? Date ...................................................... ..
by V. K. Brown Physleal Education
State Planning, by James M. Langley Health 6 Recreation
D I G E S T
pAMPHLETS 29 Exeter Street. Boston. Massachusetts
Gentlemen:

Eighth Annual Report of the Director of Recreation of

. , , , Kindly send me your publication for one year (ten
the Village of Wilmette, lllrnors. I93 3-1934

issues) at tho Introductory annual subserlptiOn rate
Annual Report l933-J4 —The National Playing Firlds of one dollar ($1.00).
Association of England D l enclose one dollar.

The Rural P.T.A.—Juggrstions for Organizing and Con. El mm" ""d hm-

ducting a Parent‘Teacher Association Name ............................................................... ... ................ ..

National Congress of Parents and Teachers, “'ash-
ington, I). C, 1934. $.03.

Annual Report of the Alhambra. California. Playground
and Recreation Commission-nl933-l93-l

 

i
1 s

i” r
l
¢

3
A Recreational Planning Committee—Santa

Barbara, California, has a Recreational Plan-
ning Committee, composed of fifteen repre—
sentatives of Santa Barbara’s citizens, whose
responsibility it is to coordinate the work of
all agencies interested in recreation and to ex—

pand the program to meet the needs of all
groups.

A Notice to Subscribers

A number of copies of the August issue of
RECREATION were sent from the bindery impro-
perly bound. If you received one of these imper-

fect copies, will you not notify us so that we may
send you a perfect copy?

Play Together and Stay Together
in Your Own Backyard

(Continued from page 317)

each other's company. Sand boxes, basketball
equipment, ten pins, seesaws and other game
equipment help to “keep the family together out in
the air, and also to distract from worries occa-
sioned by present-day economic stress,” in the
words of Mr. and Mrs. Morton.

A great deal of thoughtful planning and manual
skill is exhibited in the backyard playgrOUnd of
the Streeper family, winner in the class of com—
petition limited to an expenditure of $5.00. Using
mostly odds and ends, and buying very little ma-
terial, the Streepers have built a children’s play-
house, a wading pool, swing and turning bar, sand
box, and an outdoor fireplace which provides a
center for picnics in the yard.

The Heacox family, who won in the contest
division limited to expenditures of $15.00, have
developed a recreation center which is contribut-
ing greatly to the upbuilding of their eleven year
old lad, and also tying the family closely together
in recreational companionship. By using accumu-
lated and discarded materials with the addition of
a few purchases, this home playground, built
within the limit set, contains an astonishing num-
ber and variety of interesting play facilities. There
is a trapeze bar, a pond for sailing small boats,
and a barbecue pit, while the lawn has been
adapted for croquet and many other games and
sports.

The backyard of the Lotts family, although
winning in the unlimited expenditure class, was
really not very costly to its owners, with econo-

,M’PLAY TOGETHER AND STAY TOGETHER IN YOUR OWN BACKYARD!
I

    

EVERWEAR SAFETY
. . . TO YOUR SWINGS!

The New EverWear Spring-Rubber Safety Seat for
Swings, No. SR-206. (United States and Canadian
Patents Pending) cusbions every blow and prevents
serious accidents. It is'made of an ingenious ar-
rangement of special, EverWear—designed. fabric-re-
enforced. tough. springy, long-wearing. tubular. tire
stock rubber, which is so assembled in combination
with spring steel. as to give a soft. springy. resilient.
swing seat’ of remarkable safety. strength and
durability.

All outside surfaces of the seat are springy rubber:
SAFETY] Al] top and bottom surfaces are corru-
gated to prevent slipping: SAFETY] All edges are

soft, springy. and resilient: SAFETY] All ends
bend easily under any blow or pressure (but im-

mcdiately spring back to their normal shape after
the pressure is removed): SAFETY] No metal
parts are exposed where they can become dangerous:
SAFETY] No wood enters its construction: it can-

not warp. split nor splinter: SAFETY] Requires
no painting.

Suspension clevises are reversible, making both sides
of the seat available for use (this feature doubles the
life of the seat): DURABILITY! Rubber tough.
long-wearing tire stock: DURABILITY] Spring

steel is painted to resist rust: DURABILITY]
Built to withstand heavy weights (tested under an

active load of 950 pounds): STRENGTH] Edge-
ways. the seat can be sprung or bent under pressure
or blows (adding further to its SAFETYl).

Weighs 5% pounds (light for the rugged require-
ments of its service): SAFETY! Priced within
reach of every buyer who values SAFETY on the
playground ($4.50 each. net, f. o. b. Springfield.

Ohio. U. S. A. Price subject to change without
notice): ECONOMY!

Investigate The New EverWear Spring-Rubber
Safety Seat for Swings. Buy them to replace old
swing seats. Specify them for all new swing outfits.

NOW]!

BRING EV'ERWEAR SAFETY
. . . TO YOUR SWINGS!

Manufactured by
The EverWear Manufacturing Company
Springfield. Ohio. U. 5.3..

The World’s oldest and largest exclusive maker of play-
ground, beach and pool apparatus: a complete line of the
SAFEST and most DURABLE recreation apparatus made.

 

355

356 IVHY NOT GIVE THE GIRL A CHANCE?

SWIMMING POOL DATA
AND REFERENCE ANNUAL

1934 Edition

(Remedy Notable Swimming Pools and Guide to
Equipment emf Supplies)

Price $2.00

WATER GAMES, WATER STUNTS,

LEGAL DECISIONS, LIABILITY, IN-
SURANCE, POOL DESIGN, POOL SAN-

ITATION, POOL MANAGEMENT, ETC.

Hoffman-Harris, Inc.
1104 Fourth Avenue New York City

mics effected by using salvaged and donated ma-
terials as well as purchased equipment. A minia-
ture swimming pool is the feature of this yard,
which also boasts a playhouse, swings, Flying
rings. a slide, a sand box, and other facilities which
are constantly in use by the Lotts children and
their playmates. The opportunity of having their
children play at home where they may be watched
and encouraged and brought into a closer under-
standing with their parents is amply repaying Mr.
and Mrs. Lotts for the time, efTort-. and money
they have spent in developing their home recrea-
tion center.

The city-wide backyard playground contest
served to stimulate a large number of 1.05 An-
geles families to start the development of their
yards as home play centers, and is to be a yearly
spring event from now on, according to P.T.A.
and recreation department officials.

judges in charge of selecting the winning yards
in the contest were Mrs. C. 15. [)onivan, recrea-
tion chairman of the Tenth District l’. T. A.,
(den (‘1. Grant and Louis A. Orsatti of the Los
Angeles municipal recreation department, and C.
1.. Glenn and Loren Mitchell of the physical edu-
cation division of the city schools.

Citizens on Trial!
(Continued from page 318)

vision are a direct result of this hearing; assur-
ances of more tennis courts have been forth-
coming, and vacant lots are being cleared in many
parts of the city as neighborhood play spots for
soft ball, croquet and horseshoe pitching. Best of
all, there is a more intelligent and widespread in-
terest in the need of recreation facilities and lead-
ership than ever before, with an assurance of
decided development in the community center
neighborhood program for next winter.

Why Not Give the Girl a Chance?

(Continued from page 326)

Of course the boys will demand the facilities
they have been trained to use. For the past fifty
years clubs for little boys have prospered. The
movement boasted in 1932 about one hundred
club houses valued at $25,000 or over, 224 gym-
nasiums, 61 swimming pools, and 117 summer
camps and an enrollment of 232,000 members.
Yet you can count on the fingers of one hand the
club houses in the country devoted as exclusively
to the needs of little girls. Te be sure the inter-
est in Girl Scouts and Camp Fire movements has
been growing, but they cannot meet the need of
the great mass of underprivileged children of our
cities. The success of the boys club movement
among the underprivileged boys was demonstrateu
in a recent survey* in New York City wlucn
showed an appreciable decrease in boy delinquency
over the past twenty years in spite of the alarm-
ing tide of crime which is flooding over the coun-
ry. A very significant fact about this survey is
.‘hat it shows a decided increase in girl delin-
quency over the same period.

As the interest grows in the splendid program
of home building for the small wage earner to re-
place the slum spots in our cities with the ma-
terial make up of line American homes, isn’t it
time to consider the need of training in the art of
living the potential mothers who will make or
break those homes? Success in producing the
kind of citizens America wants will come when
the fathers and mothers of those future citizens
have had an equal opportunity to taste the better
things of life.

Why not give the girls a chance?

 

' Survey by J. B. Mailer. Journal of Juvenile Research.

(I

MUNICIPAL TENNIS IN OAKLAND 357

A Theatre Workshop for Children

(Continued from page 327)

One of the happiest features of the production
was that the star system so often imitated in
children’s drama was completely absent. In so
far as possible each child had a chance to play
each part and many of the important roles were
interchangeable. One could play Jim Hawkins
one day and step with equal ease into Squire Tre-
lawney’s books the next. When the children were
not working as actors, they became stage.manag-
ers, property men, scene shifters and electricians
manipulating the lights which they had made from
coffee cans. The small white-washed basement
that housed the production contained all the ele—
ments of beauty in dramatic presentation, while
the little players worked along the lines-which
marked the highest development in the modern
thcatre. It made no difference that upturned laun-
dry tubs were pressed into service to accommo—
datc the crowded audience.

Mrs. Ethel Hopkins and Don Oscar Becque
conducted the theatre. Mrs. Hopkins is an artist
of note, a pupil of William E. Schuracher. Mr.
Becque's work in the dance and theatre is well
known not only in this country but in Paris and
London.

A Hobby Show in Syracuse

(Continued from page 330)

tcntion and favorablc comment attained by the
hobby show in spite of these various circumstances
has determincd the commission to organize an-
other exhibit (luring the coming winter months.

It was also discovered that demonstrations
drew the greatest crowds and evoked the most
comment, and in the next show arranged by the
Municipal Recrcation Commission a very definite
effort will be made to have a large number of this
active type of exhibit.

Municipal Tennis in Oakland

(Continued from. page 340.)

conducted by the tournament committee. The
first tournament of the year was a night doubles
tournament played on lighted courts with an entry
fee of 359‘, which included the cost of balls and
lighting of the courts. Some 300 men and 200
women competed in doubles play over a period of
a week with the finals of both men’s and women’s

matches being played on a beautiful summer even-
ing on the courts of the Bella Vista Playground
which is situated in a natural bowl. Over a thou-
sand people witnessed these matches which were
tinged with thrills from start to finish.

Other tournaments conducted by the association
included the class tournaments. All members of
tennis clubs and those who were not members but
who wished to submit their names for classifica-
tion were classified into four groups according to
ability. The fourth class tournament drew 200
contestants, who battled it out for the various
cups and prizes. Next came the third class with a
hundred and fifty and the second class with one
hundred and twenty players.

This type of tournament has proven very popu-
lar as players are given a chance to compete
against players of their own ability. Plans are
also made to hold similar tournaments for women.
Othcr activities have included dances, and a ten-
nis rally with moving pictures of .the 1933 Na-
tional Tennis Championships.

The association has one thousand active mem-
bers and there are at the present time fourteen
tennis clubs which are taking an active part in CO-
operating with the Oakland Recreation Depart-
ment in keeping the organization functioning
smoothly.

As a result of this organization and of this
siege of tennis enthusiasm eleven new tennis
courts have been built in Oakland with an addi-
tional nine in the Eastbay.

Swimming Pool Design and Construction
(Continued from page 342)

The proper placing and the substantial appearance
of public buildings are necessities in swimming
pool construction as in any other. A good quality
of non-slip cement tile or mosaic is best for
locker, shower and dressing rooms. The main
lobby should have tiled floors.

In the southcrn section of the Pacific Coast I
would recommend the open or roofless dressing
rooms, mainly for the advantage of having more
sunlight and ventilation. There is objection to this
on the part of many, but with shelter edges for
the women’s dressing booths and one sheltered
area for men, there are many things in favor of
the open construction. Of course this cannot be
done in colder climates and in the areas where
there is considerable rain.

358 A TOY SHOP FOR CHILDREN OF DAYTON

Crippled Children at Play

(Continued from page 3-H)
ports find their most pleasurable play activity in
the use of swings, seesaws, toboggan slides and
similar playground equipment. But the little folk
at St. Charles Hospital, the Long Island home
for cripples of the Brooklyn Home for Blind,
Crippled, and Defective Children, got their great-
est fun during the heavy snows of last winter in
coasting on sleds suited to their size.

Crippled children have less leisure time than
others because of the daily therapeutic treatments
given after school hours. If, during such play
periods as they have, they are left to their own
devices, they are likely, one director says, to con-
tinue the emphasis put upon their physical condi-
tion by playing doctor and nurse, pretending to
take one another’s temperature and prescribe
remedies. This is just what their protectors want
to lead them away from.

Another reason why it is important to have a
recreational director to supervise play in institu-
tions for the crippled, according to Miss Grace
Reeder, Secretary of the Committee on Cripples
of the \Velfare Council of New York, is that the
crippled child especially needs the social discipline
and adjustment which come from team play. Be-
cause of his handicap, he is, in most circumstances,
treated as an individual rather than the member
of a group.

“It is unfortunate,” Miss Recder says, “that
limited funds have caused many homes for dis-
abled children to dispense with a director of lei-
sure-time activities and consequently to curtail
active play opportunities. In some instances, vol-
unteers have offered help in the emergency, but
they cannot supply the full need. For an agency
ministering to crippled children to have the right
sort of recreational program, provision for equip-
ment and a play supervisor must be made in the
budget.”

A Toy Shop For Children oi Dayton

(Continued from page 345)
We also find that they are not broken as readily
and are much easier to disinfect. Our disinfecting
has been done with the help of the City Health
Department which furnishes the necessary chemi-

cals and directions.
Rules

In a letter to parents explaining the project,
the rules enforced are set forth. The letter is as
follows:

The Y. W. C. A. is making possible for an indefinite
period a Toy Lending Shop which will loan to the ‘chil-
dren who live in the immediate neighborhood of the cen-
tral Y. W. C. A. and who are between the ages of three
and eight years toys suitable for their ages.

Inasmuch as there will be numerous children borrowing
these toys there are a few rules necessary:

1. The Toy Shop will be open on Friday afternoons
from 3:00 until 5:00 P. M.

2. Children may make their own selection of toys but
must be accompanied by a parent or older brother or sis-
ter if possible.

3. All toys may be kept for one week and then must
be returned to the Toy Shop where a new toy may be
taken for the same length of time.

4. The parents are asked to see that the children
give the toys a reasonable amount of care. We realize
that accidents will happen. In case of breakage, please
return a” port: so that if possible the toy can be repaired.

5. In case of too frequent breakage the privilege of
borrowing from the shOp will be withdrawn.

6. In case of frequent loss or of keeping the toy over
a week the privilege of borrowing will be refused.

The Y. “I. C. A. in the letter states that it will
not be responsible for any injuries or damages
incurred to or by the child while using the toys.

Results Secured

we are very much pleased with the response
and feel that we have been fortunate in the fact
that very few toys have been broken. There has
been no loss whatever. Parents report that the
children have little desire to keep the toys over
the stated period of a week as they are too anxious
to come back for something else which has caught
their attention the week before.

We have evidence in a recent happening that
the project is not failing to reach its goal from a
service angle, even with the smaller children. A
grubby little boy of about five a few days ago
returned his toy. \Vith him he brought a much
battered small truck which he wanted'to loan to
“some other little boy”!

How to Succeed at Parties
(Continued from page 346)

Driver Drinking his own Bathwater. And all the
time yOUr turn—or, worse still, mine—is rapidly
approaching. What on earth are we going to do?
True, nobody has as yet given a recitation, and
the possibilities of drawing room acrobatics have
still to be exploited; but then I cannot recite, and
to stand on my head I am ashamed. Nor is it
possible, even if one could remember the code, to
attempt the thought-reading act with which one
has scored in the past (though I say it myself)
so many outstanding successes. Where, among
this party of witless wights, could one hope to
find a trustworthy confederate?

TENNIS TECHNIQUE 359

Such, I take it, is the problem to which you
would have me provide a solution; and I say quite
frankly that I have no really satisfactory one
ready. All I can do is to suggest two alternative
lines of procedure which you may, if only as a
last resource, be glad to adopt. Suppose, then,
that at the party which has brought you into a
position of such dire peril there are two young
people whose persistent proximity and extreme
rudeness one to the other has led you to believe
that they either are or ought to be on the verge
of entering into a contract of marriage. \Vhat
more simple than to declare that your turn de-
mands the temporary absence of two people from
the room, send them both out and rely on their
having sufficient gumption not to reappear until
the carriages are announced? Meanwhile it is
ridiculous of course for any one to expect you to
go on with your performance. Failing the pres-
ence of such obvious, if unconscious, allies, it is
always possible to go out yourself and leave your
audience to make themselves sick with excitement
wondering what you are going to do when you
come back. How should they guess that you are
already half way home wondering what you are
going to say when you meet any of them again?

I am well aware that neither of these expedi-
ents is free from serious drawbacks. In the first
case your diagnosis may be incorrect and you run
the risk of having the young people come back
again, slightly flushed, in less than a couple of
minutes; in the second you may Iind it impossible
to devise an adequate excuse to explain your
abrupt departure. The situation in either event is
rather delicate: graviora qnoedam szmt remedia
periculis, if you can put up with that kind of
hypocritical pedantry.

Perhaps on the whole the best plan is to Iind
out in advance that Percival is going to be there
and stay at home. Or why not come around and
see me instead? I know a little puzzle with
matches which really is rather neat.

Tennis Technique
(Continued from page 349)

square scores 2 points. The player stands on his
own baseline and on the left side of the court. He
tosses a ball over a line 12 feet to his right, and
parallel with his own baseline. He must then
hurry to play this ball on the Iirst bounce and hit

it over the net into the rectangle on the other
court.

I
I
I
I

0
Score by recording the total points made on 5 attempts.

Test No. 4—Body Position and Ground Stroke
Accuracy (backhand stroke). Repeat Test No.

3, but start at right side of the court and use
backhand stroke.

Test No. 5—Volley. Start player 15 feet away
from a wall. Test his ability to continue hitting
the ball to the wall on a volley over an 8-foot
high line. Record the number of successful re-
turns in a 15-second period. If player misses
before period is up, record the last successful
return.

The Iinal score would be the total points made
in all live tests.

Unwelcome Leisure PuttoWelcome Use
(Continued from page 350)

along with them were hung beautiful soft warm
blankets and quilts, each made from a thousand
bright samples beautifully stitched together. All
these attractive and useful things made from
discards!

\Ve learned that this exhibition terminated a
ten-week course of instruction in applied skills
and that other courses were starting immediately.
\Ve also learned that Southside Center is fur-
nished with a warm reading room, well supplied
with current magazines; that there are health
classes and Americanization classes, and that a
group of sixty-live boys and girls between the
ages of sixteen and twenty—four have a self-sup—
porting, self-governing club, which meets between
seven-thirty and ten on Tuesday and Friday
nights. They give a dance each month with or-
chestra accompaniment, and as many as one hun—
dred and Iifty often attend.

All these things we found to be without cost
to the men and women, and the boys and girls of
the neighborhood. And all things made belong to
the maker, and are taken home for further joy in

using.

 

New Books in the Leisure Time Field

 

Boy and Girl Tramps oi America

By Thomas .\linehan. Farrar and Rinehart. Inc.. New
York. $2.50.
HOMAS MiNEilAN. who has spent his vacations and
week-ends traveling and living with America's boy
and girl tramps. gives us from the five hundred life his-
tories he has gathered an amazing and appalling picture
of what is happening to the wandering army of young
people. He suggests as a temporary solution of the prob-
lem a national plan of youth camps not unlike the youth
camps in Europe. But these camps. he points out, are
merely expedients. "They will save today's youth from
vagabondage: they will create public works of use and
value: they will give us a pause during which we can
prepare a better program. . . . But for tomorrow we
must have other and more comprehensive programs. .
To reclaim the youth which we are losing will not be
easy. . . . It will require a redirection of national aims
and ideals into a future in which youth will have a

definite part."

Bulletin oi lniormation For Emergency
Nursery Schools

The National Advisory Committee on Emergency Nurs-
ery Schools. In coolieration with the United States
Office of Education. Washington. D. C. $.10.

ms. rm; secoxn BULLETIN to be issued by the Na-

tional Advisory Committee on Emergency Nursery
Schools. is Concerned with housing and equipment. lt
contains much practical information on equipment for
nursery schools and on indoor and outdoor play spaces
and their equipment. The last section of the booklet is
devoted to line drawings of carpenter-made equipment
and play apparatus suggested for use in emergency nurs-
ery schools. The pamphlet should be helpful to recrea-
tion workers.

Discussion Methods For Adult Groups

Prepared by Thomas liansler. American Association for
Adult Education. New York. $l.50.

Tins S'rl'm' of the techniques of discussion in adult
education takes up the forum. the informal study
group. and the panel discussion. Under each there are
presented stenographic records of actual discussions
chosen from many records gathered together from various
sources. Of interest to recreation workers is the fact
that the book presents a panel discussion of “What Shall
\\'e [)0 with Our Leisure ?"

Monologues and Character Sketches

By Helen Osgood. Samuel French. New York. $1.50.
ms Larrsr VOLUME of Helen Osgood's monologues
contains thirty-seven monologues some of which are

in the form of playlets.

360

Essays—Yesterday and Today

Compiled by Harold L. Tinker. The Macmillan Com-
pany. New York. $.30.
MR. TIXKER has brought together in this volume a
number of essays on all sorts of subjects'which
make delightful reading. Oliver Goldsmith and Hey-
wood Broun. Charles Lamb and Oliver Wendell Holmes.
L. P. Jacks and H. L. Mencken are among the writers
who meet in this book. Theses on athletics and sports
mingle with dissertations on poetry and peace. It is an
excellent publication for leisurely reading.

Home Play in Rural Areas

Prepared by William McKinley Robinson. National
Chairman. Rural Service. National Congress of Par-
ents and Teachers, l201 Sixteenth Street. N. W..
“’ashington. D. C. $.05. .
ms PROGRAM outline for rural parent-teacher associa-

tions contains suggestions for such discussion topics
as Toys and Equipment: Gardening: Pets: Handcrafts:

Dramatic Play: Music: Hobbies: Children's Reading;

the liamily at Play. and the Social Hour.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

Jostrn Lu. President

JOHN II. qur. First Vice-President
Jomr G. “'INMH'. Second Vice-President
Rona: GAIII‘I‘T. Third Vice-President
Gustavus T. Krasr. Treasurer

How-um S. Baauenaa, Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mas. Eowaao W. Btoou. Carlisle Pa.
\YILIAH IIU‘I'TIIWOITII, Moline, Ill.
CLAIINC! M. CLaa R, Philadelphia. Pa.
Has-av I... COIIITT Portland. Ore.
Mas. Aarnea G. Cuuun, Jacksonville. Fla.
F. Tauaaa Dawson. Locust Valle , L. 1.. N. Y.
Mas. TnOuas A. Horton, West range. N. J.
{(0}!!! II. quv, New \ork. N. Y.

our: GAIII‘I’T, Ilaltimore. .‘Id.
Austin E. Gaunt-us. Seattle. Wash.
Cnaaus llavnan, New York N. Y.
Mas. Cuaatu \'. llteaox. afiehisan City. Ind.
Mas. Faaucts oaLacr IIroI, Plaintield, N. J.
manner: '1‘. Ktaav New \ork. N. Y.
H. LICK. (Airport, Indianapolis. Ind.
Mas. Cnaaua D. Lantta. Greenwich. Conn.
Roarar Lasstua. Charlotte. N. C.

osam Lat. Boston. Mass.

nwaao 1-2. hours. New York N. Y.
grit. BIeCuaov. Sprin field. slim.

o 1‘. Hanan, Phi adelphla. Pa.

Wauaa A. Mar. Pittsburgh. Pa.
Can. F. Mutant", Au um. .‘Ie.

Mas. Oooau L. MILLS. Yoodbury. N. Y.
Mu. auu w. Wamwoarn. 1a.. Washlngton, D. C.
. C. \‘auu New York. N. Y.

amulet: hf. Waaauao. New York. N. Y.
{Ions G. Wurst-1', Cooeord. N. II.
. as. \VILLIA‘H II. Woontu. 1a., Tuesoo. Aria. .

