Jane Addams

ANE ADDAMS belonged not to any one generation, any one city. any single country, though
few citizens identified themselves more with their country, their city, their ward. their

neighborhood, with the times in which they lived. She possessed the quality that is eternal
—-—that belongs to mankind everywhere.

As one sat with her one felt that she saw all the weakness and the frailty of human
nature. She possessed the quality of understanding. Yet she had abiding faith in humanity
through the ages. Mankind is going somewhere. It is worth while to try. Temporary defeats
there will always be, setbacks. detours. Though there be much fog there is a way to Olympus
and very much of the time this way can be seen.

It was not accidental that a woman such as Jane Addams should share in building up
the recreation movement——-the movement for more abundant life. This movement itself came in
part out of the settlement movement, had part of its roots there. Jane Addams herself was

ever concerned over poverty of life.

With simplicity, directness, clearness, vision. Jane Addams saw the life needs of men,
women and children and helped make these needs clear to others. She saw the contribLItions
which even neglected individuals and groups could make to the common neighborhood and
community life. Housing, health, labor relations were important to her, but she was 'not one of
those who got lost in the things that are more outside of man himself. She knew well that
bread, clothing and houses and health are not enough, that man cannot live by these alone; that
music and romance and adventure and beauty are also a part of what men live by.

Though Jane Addams in the early days of the national play and recreation movement
actively identified herself with the Association, giving of her time and strength to its problems.
serving as a member of the Board of Directors of the Association, one always felt that she saw
clearly that the world was not going to be saved by institutions or by organization, important
as both are. but rather that progress would depend upon the spirit, the atmosphere. the climate
maintained. and that all institutions and constitutions were but means to this end. Above all a

certain spirit was to be maintained if mankind were to keep the forward march. .

‘-

Jane Addams’ great contribution to the recreation movement for more abundant living
was not in the books she wrote, great as was the contribution of “The Spirit of Youth and the
City Streets”; not in what she did, much as that helped. Rather it was in the spirit that she

carried. in what she herself was.

She is one of a small group that established high traditions. Her patience, her long—
time faith, her giving no thought to herself, the revelation in her own life of the possibilities
of height and depth in living. helped to establish in the national recreation movement tradi—
tions of a non-mechanical, non-institutional, non-self—seeking service.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

JUNE |935

 

137

 

Character Training for Youth

By JOHN DEWEY, Ph.D., LL.D.

seems to be a deterioration of character

among the young. There is a growing in-
crease of juvenile criminality. Revelations of
breach of trust and shady practices among men
the community had looked up to as leaders have
led to questioning of the value of the education
they received when they were young. The prev-
alence of racketeering has added to the force of
the question. In consequence, many persons are
blaming the school for inattention to the im-
portance of moral education. There are many who
demand that systematic moral and religious in-
struction be introduced into the, schools.

How far are the charges against the schools
justified?

What is the place of the schools in the moral
education of the young?

Anyone interested in these questions should be
clear about at least two things. In the first place,
the roots of character go deep and its branches
extend far. Character means all the desires, pur-
poses, and habits that influence conduct. The mind
of an individual, his ideas and beliefs, are a part
of character, for thought enters into the forma—
tion of desires and aims. Mind includes imagina-
tion, for there is nothing more important than the
nature of the situations that fill imagination when
a person is idle or at work. If we could look into
a person’s mind and see which mental pictures are
habitually entertained we should have an unsur-
passed key to his character. Habits are the fibre
of character, but there are habits of desire and
imagination as well as of outer action.

The 'second point follows from the first. Just
because character is such an inclusive thing, the
influences that shape it are equally extensive. If
we bear this fact in mind when we ask what the
schools are doing and can do in forming charac-
ter, we shall not eXpect too much from them. We
shall realize that at best the schools can be but one
agency among the very many that are active in
forming character. Compared with other influ-

THERE is a good deal of alarm just now at what

Has modern education broken down?
Is the school altogether to blame
for increased iuvenile delinquen-
cy? What changes in school organ-
ization might remedy the situation?
Where does the community come in?

ences that shape desire and purpose, the influence
of the school is neither constant nor intense. Moral
education of our children is in fact going on all
the time, every waking hour of the day and three
hundred and sixty-five days a year. Every influ-
ence that modifies the disposition and habits, the
desires and thoughts of a child is a part of the
development of his character.

In contrast with their power, the school has the
children under its influence five hours a day, for
not more than two hundred days a year (on the
average much less), and its main business is teach—
ing subject—matter and promoting the acquisition
of certain skills, reading, writing, figuring, that
from the childrens’ standpoint have little to do
with their main interests. The information given
is largely from books, is remote from daily life,
and is mainly committed to memory for reproduc-
tion. in recitations rather than for direct manifes-
tation in action outside the school. Industry,
promptness, and neatness are indeed insisted upon,
but even the good habits formed in these matters
are so specialized that their transfer over into out-
of-school matters is largely a matter of accident.
Because the material is remote, the effect on
character is also remote.

In short, formation of character is going on all
the time; it cannot be confined to special occasions.
Every eXperience a child has, especially if his
emotions are enlisted, leaves an impress upon
character. The friends and associates of the
growing boy and girl, what goes on upon the play-
ground and in the street, the newspapers, maga-
zines, and books they read, the parties and movies
they attend, the presence 'or absence of regular re-
sponsibilities in the home, the attitude of parents

139

140 CHARACTER TRAINING FOR YOUTH

to each other, the general atmosphere of the
household—all of these things are operating pretty
constantly. And their effect is all the greater be-
cause they work unconsciously when the young
are not thinking of morals at all. Even the best
conscious instruction is effective in the degree in
which it harmonizes with the cumulative result of
all these unconsciOUs forces.

Character, in short, is something that is formed
rather than something that can be taught as geo-
graphy and arithmetic are taught. Special things
about character can be taught. and such teaching
is important. It is usually given, both at home
and in school, when something is done that is ir-
regular and is disapprqved. The child is disobedi-
ent, quarrelsome, has shirked doing some assigned
task, has told a lie, etc. Then his attention is called
to some specific moral matter. Even so, a great
deal depends upon the way this moral instruction
is managed. Reproof may be given in such a way
that dislike of all authority is inculcated. 01J a
child develops skill in evasion and in covering up
things that he knows are disapproved of.

Negativism, fear, undue self-consciousness often
result. Consequently the net effect of even direct
moral instruction cannot be foretold, and its ef-
ficacy depends upon its fitting into the mass of
conditions which play unconsciously upon the
young.

A few of the indirect forces may be noted by
way of illustration. Recent investigations, con-
ducted with scientific care, have shown that many
boys and girls have been stimulated in unwhole-
some ways by the movies. Parents in good homes
are likely to underestimate the infiuences of the
movies upon children coming from other kinds of
homes. The influence of movies upon children is
fixed by the general tone and level of the child’s
surroundings.

A boy or girl from a cramped environment that
provides few outlets reacts very differently from
one in which the movie is not the main vent for
romance, and for acquaintance with conditions
very different from those that habitually surround
him. The luxury of scenes de-
picted on the screen, the dis-
play of adventure and easy sex
relations, inoculate a boy or
girl living in narrow surround-
ings with all sorts of new ideas
and desires. Their ambitions
are directed into channels that
contrast vividly with actual

We hear and read much these days
about character training and the re-
sponsibility of the school toward the
moral education of boys and girls.
Through the courtesy of The Ro-
tarian, in which the article originally
appeared, we are presenting the point
of view of one of America's out-
standing educators and philosophers.

conditions of life. The things that a boy or girl
from a well-to—do and cultivated home would dis-
count or take simply as part of a show are for
other children ideals to be realized—and with-
out especial regard for the means of their attain-
ment. The little moral at the close has no power
compared with the force of desires that are
excited.

A child who is one of a family of from four to
six or seven children living in two rooms in a
congested tenement district lives also on a con-
gested street. The father is away most of the day

and comes home tired from monotonous work. .

The mother, needless to say, has no servant. The
children are under foot save when at school. They
are “naughty” and scolded in the degree in which
they get in her way or make added work. The
street is their natural outlet and the mother gets
relief in the degree they are out of the two rooms
of the home. The effect of _such conditions in cre-
ating a type of life in which the discipline and ex—
ample of the gang count much more than that of
family instruction cannot be exaggerated.

The homes of many of the well—to-do suffer
from opposite conditions. There is excess of
luxury and deficit of responsibility, since the rou-
tine of the household is cared for by servants.

To “pass the buck” and to find “alibis” is
natural to all of us. \Vhen the public is faced by
the sum total of the bad results of the conditions
——of which only one or two have been selected as
illustrations—a cry goes up that the schools are
not doing their duty. I am not trying to set forth
an alibi in turn for the schools, and I do not mean
to assert that they have done and are doing all
that can be done in shaping character. But take a
look in imagination at the schoolroom. There are
forty children there, perhaps fifty since the de-
pression. The children are there five or five and a
half hours a day. The teacher takes care of the
“order” of the room, hears lessons in six or seven
subjects, corrects papers, and has more or less
semi-janitorial work to do. In the average school-
room even today most of the time of the children
is spent, when not reciting, in
conning their textbooks, doing
“sums” and other written work.
They are active beings and yet
have little outlet for their
active impulses. How many
parents would undertake to do
much training. of character,
save of a negative and repres-

i
i

CHARACTER TRAINING FOR YOUTH 141

sive sort, Under such con-
ditions?

The answer that is
often given is to add one
more study. Give direct
instruction in morals, or
in religion combined with
i morals. Now I cannot go
into the merits and de-
merits of direct instruc—
tion of this sort. But it
is a matter of common
experience in other sub-
jects that formal instruc-
tion often leaves no great
impress. It is one thing
to learn words and sen-
tences by heart and an-
other thing to take them
to heart so that they in—
fluence action. At the
best, this method has no
great force in compari—
son with the indirect ef-
fect of conditions that
are operating all the time
in school and out. It is an old and true saying
that example is more powerful than precept, and
example is but one of the forces that act con-
stantly on the young.

Those. who are inclined to think that more of
direct moral instruction would be almost a pana-
cea for present evils usually look back to earlier
times when such instruction was customary in
home and school. They forget that it was effec-
tive because it was part of the general conditions
and atmosphere. It was reinforced by many other
things that are now lacking. It is a fallacy to sup-
pose that the social trend and context can be radi-
cally changed and special methods be as effective
as they were under other conditions.

It would be absurd to omit the effect upon the
plastic and forming character of the young of the
economic conditions that prevailed about them.
Till recently, youth has grown up in a social at-
mosphere in which emphasis upon material suc-

cess was enormous, both consciously and uncons--

ciously. The fact that multitudes of persons were
engaged in steady and honest industry was not
sensational. Save where the young were faced
with that fact in their own home and neighbor-
hood, it did not have the effect that conspicuous

 

parental

And as for parents. llI would put
education second among the factors demanded

in the improvement of character education."

cases of great financial careers exerted. And
many children'were faced by the fact that in
their own homes,'industry and honesty brought
no great material reward. They came to feel that
possession of money was the key to the things
they most desired.

There is no great amount of tangible evidence
that can be cited on this point. But the very fact
that so many persons have come to think that the
great thing is to “get by,” and that if a person at—
tains material success no great attention will be
paid by society to the means by-which he “got
away” with it, should be evidence enough. If
material success is glorified by current public
Opinion, the effect of that glorification upon the
young cannot be offset by occasional moralizing
from pulpit, press, teacher and parent.

In pointing out that the concrete state of social
relations and activities is the most powerful factor
in shaping character, I do not wish it inferred that
I think schools have no responsibility and no op-
portunity. The conclusion to be drawn is that the
schools are only one among many factors. and

142 CHARACTER TRAINING FOR YOUTH

that their shaping influence will be most helpful
when it falls in line with social forces operating
outside the schools.

I think the depression has had one healthy ef-
fect. It has led to a more general questioning of
the primacy of material values. Events have dis-
closed the demoralizing effect of making success
in business the chief aim of life. But I think that
still greater economic reconstruction mUSt take
place before material attainment and the acquisi—
tive motive will be reduced to their place. It is
difficult to produce a cooperative type of character
in an economic system that lays chief stress upon
competition, and wherein the most successful com-
petitor is the one who is the most richly rewarded
and who becomes almost the social hero and
model. So I should put general economic change
as the first and most important factor in produc-
ing a better kind of education for formation of
character. ,

As long as society does
not guarantee security of
useful work, security for
old age, and security of a
decent home and of oppor-
tunity for education of all
children by other means
than acquisition of money,
that long the very affection
of parents for their chil-
dren, their desire that chil-
dren may have a better op— .
portunity than their parents had, will compel par-
ents to put great emphasis upon getting ahead in
material ways, and their example will be a domi-
nant factor in educating children. 0

As I have already intimated, better education
of parents would be a large element in bringing
about better moral education of children and
youth. Psychology is still in its infancy. But the
increase of knowledge of human nature, and of
how it develops and is modified, has grown
enormously in the last generation. It has grown
especially with respect to how relations between
persons—between parents with respect to each
other and with respect to their offspring—affect
character. The important movement for parental
education has developed out of this increase of
knowledge. But there are still multitudes of par—
ents who have not had the most rudimentary con—
tact with the new knowledge and who are totally
unaware of the influences that are most power-
fully affecting the moral fibre of their children.

"The two dominant impulses of youth
are toward activity and toward some
kind of collective association.
failure to provide for these two im-
pulses, under the changed conditions
of rural as well as city lifel is at least
a partial measure of why we are
getting unsatisfactory results in char-
acter development."

I would put parental education second among
the factors demanded in the improvement of
character education.

In recent years there has been great advance in
provision of recreation for the young, and yet
hardly more than a beginning in comparison with
what remains to be done. There are regions in
New York City where “cellar clubs” flourish and
are attended by school boys and girls. There are
large regions in which, in spite of the efforts of
social settlements, public playgrounds, and school
fields, the great mass of growing youth resort to
the streets for an outlet in the day time, and to
dance halls, movies, and the like, in the evening.

The two dominant impulses of youth are toward
activity and toward some kind of collective asso—
ciation. Our failure to provide for these two im-
pulses, under the changed conditions of rural as
well as city life, is at least a partial measure of
why we are getting unsatis-
factory results in character
development.

If I put the school fourth
our and last it is not because I
regard it as the least im-
portant of factors in moral
training but because its suc-
cess is so much bound up
with the operation of the
three others. I shall men-
tion only two changes that
would help. Few' schools
are organized on a social basis. Moral instruction
through conference and discussion would be much
more effective if it grew out of concrete situations
present in the experience of the young instead of
centering about general discussions of virtues and
vices in the abstract. The more the school is or-
ganized as a community in which pupils share, the
more opportunity there is for this kind of discus-
sion and the more surely it will lead to the prob-
lems of larger social groupings outside the school.
Moreover, such organization would give practice
in the give and take of social life, practice in meth-
ods of cooperation. and would require assumption
of definite responsibilities on the part of the young
people — adapted of course to their age and

.maturity.

The other change is provision of greater op-
portunity for positive action, with corresponding
reduction of the amount of passivity and mere
absorption that are still current. The latter style

(Continued on page 175)

“Ii-i.

Philadelphia's Adventure

In

Conducting a Day Camp

NF. OF THE outstanding activities in Phila-
O delphia last summer was the day camp

which, in a sense, was the highlight of all
the summer’s projects promoted by the Play-
ground and Recreation Association. For it had
never been done before, as had the street and
vacant lot playgrounds, and consequently it opened
up entirely new experiences for most of those
who were transported to the camp. This was done
by means of buses generously loaned by the Board
of Education. \Vhile this means of transporta-
tion was intended for children 11p to fOUrteen
years of age, an occasional father, aunt, grand—
mother or older sister or brother contrived to go
along “to take care of kids too little to go on their

3!

own.

The Camp Site

The site of the camp was a particularly wild,
almost primeval spot in Pennypack Park,.about
fifteen miles from the city, at a point where
Pennypack Creek widens out into an ideal swim-
ming pool. The surrounding woods are in an
absolutely natural state, with trees, rocks and
twisting paths probably just as they were in In-
dian days. only older and more worn and weather
beaten. There were no modern facilities of any
sort, but one of the assistant directors lived in an
old stone house near by and this was used for as-
sembly, dressing rooms and other c0nveniences.

It would be impossible to imagine an atmos—
phere as far removed from that of the congested
district from which the members came, and after
the season was over it was sought again and again
by many who had first come under its soothing
spell at the day camp. '

The period of time for the camp was six weeks,
and the personnel consisted of a director and two

Each summer an increasing number
of cities conduct day camps and
find them satisfying experiences

By ELIZABETH HINES HANLEY

Playground and Recreation Association

Philadelphia, Pa.

assistants. The campers were drawnfrom twen-
ty—seven locations—the streets, vacant lots and
playgrounds used as clearing centers, and selec-
tions were made by the directors of these centers.

Each group was given two trips, and great care
had to be taken that there were no repeaters.

Some Experiences

In the many incidents and stories of experi-
ences with the campers, the director reveals the
eagerness with which every one looked forward
to the day at camp, and their disappointment
when they could not be taken there because of an
overload, or of the fact that they had already had
their “two turns.” Some of the mothers were so
keen about going that they became overwrought
in feeling and language when they had to be
denied.

“Repeats” slipped in now and then in spite of
every precaution, and some even wanted a third
or fourth trip! The mothers were always in this
class, and were eager to have others enjoy the ex-
perience. “One mother,” said our director, “had
been on the first trip and was talking with a
waiting mother on the sidewalk. ‘My, but you
will enjoy it,’ she said. ‘We surely had a restful
time, and I wish I could go again.’ (Then, softly,
:18 with a secret wonder) ‘You know, they take
the children away and you are all by yourself

most of the time !' "'
This release was possible because the leaders

organized games, hikes, story hours and stunts,
not to mention the swims in the creek. Even when
it rained the program was carried on. The as-
sistant director who lived near by very hospitably
took the group into his house, and the active

143

144 PHILADELPHIA’S ADVENTURE IN CONDUCTING A DAY CAMP

games were changed to quiet ones, with singing,
stories and dancing making the time pass as pleas-
antly as out of doors.

“Once,” the director relates, “Mr. Kulilen, hos-
pitable as ever, produced a victrola and records,
and, though they weren’t the very latest hits, the
children enjoyed them. Then we remembered the
checkers and jacks. They proved to be very enter—
taining, the children playing with them out on the
porch. Mr. Kuhlen turned over the dining room
for handwork, and we were permitted to use a
famous antique' dining table. We cut out paper
circus animals, clowns, etc., and colored them.
The older girls traced and colored leaves of trees
we had seen on the nature walk for a poster. One
of the mothers helped us. Mr. Nissman organized
games for the rest of the children in the assembly
room. Mr. Kuhlen took some of the mothers and
played cards with them. The rest of the mothers
sat on the porch and talked, knitted, or played
with their children. At swimming time, Mr.
Nissman took the swimmers to the creek. Even
a mother went, and when they retUrned they re-
ported the water was fine! And all the time it
rained‘ and rained! But nobody minded it. One
mother said: ‘Well, it would be raining if we
were at home, anyway, and we will make the best
of it. It‘s nice to be out here for a change.’ ”

From the director’s note book we quote an in-
cident she labels as “spontaneous.”

“One day we had an almost exclusively Italian
group. From the time they arrived until they went
home it was a ‘free day.’ They just thrilled to
everything, ran all over the place, and were
especially interested in the fishing, as W'ednesday
is fishing day at Pennypack Park. \Vell, fishing
proved 0111' Undoing! I could not keep them away
from the creek. After lunch I tried to have a
nature walk as usual. Finally I succeeded in get-
ting them together around the beeches for the
talk, but most of the boys were not listening or
paying the slightest attention. One of the younger
girls, about ten, noticing my predicament and
really interested herself, naively remarked :
‘Teacher, if I were you, I wouldn‘t try to talk
about the trees. I would ust walk, as long as the
boys won’t behave.’ I tried to get
over to them the idea of not cut—
ting the bark, and let it go at
that, and we proceeded to walk.
The first thing I knew, a few of
the boys were missing, hiding be-
hind trees in the rear. One of

In this article Mrs. Hanley has
emphasized not so much the
technique and procedure of day
camp organization and adminis-
tration. as the contribution it
makes in terms of human values.

them was an older boy by the name of Dominic,
and his mother scolded him roundly in her native
tongue until reluctantly he came out from behind
the shrubs along the creek, and then I went back
and spoke to him. I asked him why he didn’t want
to come along with the rest of the groups, and he
said: ‘Teacher, I want to fish.’ I said to him, ‘Son,
don’t you realize that if I let you stop and fish
many of the other boys will want to do it, too?
You see, you are older, and they will want to fol-
low your example. Now, won’t you come along
and be a good sport?’ \Vith a little more per-
suasion, he came.

“As we walked along, some were more or less
interested, so we gave a little nature instruction
en route. Suddenly, an open space along the bank
of the creek came into view, and about half of the
group, both boys and girls, rushed down to the
edge of the creek. Two boys were fishing on the
other side of the 'creek. ‘So much for the hike!’
sighed I. Then suddenly, there flashed through
my mind something I had learned not so long ago
about trying to follow the interest of the group
rather than insisting on your own cut and dried
plan. Why not watch the fishing, then? So, we
all stopped walking. I joined the group at the
water’s edge. \Vhat a time we had! There were
so many small rocks and it was so difiicult to keep
a footing, and the water around them at least a
foot deep! After a while they tired of watching
the fishing, and attention centered on the tadpoles
and fishes swimming by. Suddenly, a shriek.
right behind me——a little brother had fallen into
the creek! No harm done, but quite wet. Teacher,
in her excitement, turned around too fast. and
her foot slipped into the creek, too, filling her
shoe with water. She laughed, so, little brOther
stopped crying. \Ve had just settled down again
when from a little further up the creek, where
some of the group had ventured to eXplore, came
shrieks, and cries of ‘Teacher, some kind of bugs
are coming out of the water and stinging us!’ A
hasty exodus from the banks of the creek to the
teacher, and the showing of many stings amid
tears among the girls. From Dominic: ‘Say,
Teacher, have you any medicine for stings?’ I
answered in the affirmative, and
immediately all the stung ones
were my pals.

“It was quite easy to get back
to the house now. On the way
the boys discovered a snake, of
the water variety, I believe, coiled

PHILADELPHIA’S ADVENTURE IN CONDUCTING A DAY CAMP 145

up right close to the path so all could see it.
Apparently, it had been injured by the hoof of a
horse while crossing the path as it appeared to
have sort of a bruise on its side. It seemed to be
dead. Dominic’s mother stood bewildered, and
turned to me and said: ‘Why are you not afraid
of the snake? Is it dead?’ That was too much
for the snake. It cautiously moved its head, stuck
out its tongue, very slowly uncoiled, and crawled
away, to the fascination of the group. I had to
explain to the children that snakes are the friends
of man, eating field mice, and I thought this was
the kind that ate mosquito larvae from the creek.
The crowd moved on to the house as their minds
‘went back to the stings. I was still wondering
what sort of bug in the creek would suddenly fly
out and sting them, but I was soon enlightened.
One of the stung little girls confidentially in-
formed me that one of the boys had poked a stick
into a hornets nest! Now it was all so clear and
simple. Suddenly I noticed two of the older boys
engaged in conversation, and showing evidences
of going back after the snake. They'were de-
termined to kill it. The idea of letting the snake
live, even after what I had said in the snake’s
favor, was just too ridiculous for words. They
glanced back at me to see if I were watching, and
when they found I was, they reluctantly gave up
the idea, and the snake is still alive—-—at least, as
far as that group is concerned.

“\V hen we arrived at the house, the stung ones
were given ‘hrst aid,’ and the stings were allevi-
ated. The group, or many of
of them, prepared to go
swimming. Some of the non-
swimmers started
to fish minnows out
of the creek and
prepared to take
them home in tin
cans, but I eXplain—
ed that this was not
allowed, and asked
them to put the fish
back,into the creek,
telling them they
had been put there
by the Isaack Wal-
ton Club that they
might grow up to
be big enough for
fishermen to catch.
Finally we were

One of the delights experienced by the
day camper is the nature walk with all
of the unfamiliar beauty it discloses.

 

Courtesy Ft. Worth, Texas, Park Department

eating our last lunch before going home, when
Dominic turned to me with a smile and said:
‘Teacher, we had a swell time today, didn’t we ?’
I was amazed, as I had certainly gotten after him
many times during the day. He was a nice boy,
and I was glad that I had not insisted on our
usual routine. They had learned a good deal about
nature in their own way, and they had certainly
had a swell time l”

The nature walks were enjoyed by all kinds and
ages. The director says: .

“On one trip several mothers with babies in
arms walked the entire distance and loved it, their
little three- and four-year olds toddling along and
not getting a bit tired. One of the older mothers
said: ‘No, indeed, I am not tired. We don’t get a
chance to take a walk in the country very often,
so, we are going to take advantage of it.’ And
maybe that little English mother, sixty-one years
old, didn’t hike, too, the entire distance of two
miles! Many of the children had never been on
hikes before. It was all so new, as part of the
walk was through a,farm, and they saw chickens,
cows, horses, farmers and farm implements;
wagons, crops, barns and horse troughs, corn cribs
and beautiful flowers, and they really loved it.
One little girl said: ‘You know, I never did any-
thing so interesting as this nature walk. The more
you walk along, the more interesting it becomes.’

“Three older boys were so interested in the
nature walks that they went on for the two-mile
distance while the rest went in swimming, and
this cut down their swim-
ming time about thirty min-
utes—they liked swimming,
too. An Italian
mother said: ‘This
is a beautiful place,
such trees, and it is
quiet. It reminds
me of my country.’
An Irish mother
said wistfully to
me: ‘This is surely
a beautiful place
and makes me think
of home.’ ‘Where is
your home?’ I ask-
ed. ‘Ireland,’ she
said, ‘and it’s very
beautiful there. I
have been thinking
today of all the

146 PHILADELPHIA’S ADVENTURE IN CONDUCTING A DAY CAMP

things I used to do when I was a girl. \Ve had a
creek like this, and I used to take off my shoes
and stockings and go wading.’ {There is a hill on
the hike, and one little chap remarked: "Say,
Teacher, you have to go up this hill in second,
don’t you i”

“We had so many delightful experiences it is
hard to single out any one as the best, but those
we had on the walks brought probably the most
instruction. W e broke up the two-mile distance
into about half-mile stretches. At the end of the
first, we took a look at the tadpoles; at the end
of the second, we paused at the farm house to
get a drink of real spring water; at the end of
the third, we stopped in front of the ‘oldest
Baptist Church in this part of the country, found-
ed in 1688.’ The church yard was enclosed by a
nice stone wall, in front of which was a long
grassy bank shaded with maples. “7 e rested either
on the wall or on the bank, and held impromptu
shows. We discovered much talent among the
children in the way of singing and dancing. Some-
times a mother was gifted and sang for us. \Ve
enjoyed it- all very much. The mothers particu-
larly like the hikes. On one trip several mothers
were carrying their babies, and I offered to do
my daily kindness by carrying a sleeping baby for
a half-mile. Believe me, I was never so glad of
anything in my life than to give the baby back to
its mother when we had returned to the grove.
She was very kind and said it was because I
wasn't used to it! Perhaps that was the reason,
but my arms certainly were tired!”

A fine by-product of the day camp project was
the training of older boys and girls to act as lead-
ers for the others in games, swimming, and keep—
ing them together on the hikes. They developed
into most efficient assistants, and were always
glad to “go along and help with the kids.”

Innthe groups taken to the camps there were
representatives from Italy, Ireland, England, Po]—
and, Syria, Greece, Scotland, Germany, France
and Bohemia. Many were foreign-born; others
were children of these parents. There were two
buses from the Jewish section of the city. The
greatest number were Irish, or of Irish descent,
then Italian, Jewish and Polish. The adults ranged
in age from twenty to seventy, and in type from
the ultra—modern mother to the dear old Mauve
Decade grandmother; even our “hardest cases,”
really enjoyed themselves.

An instance is given of “what a real father is
like,” according to the director. She says:

“This father worked at night. His wife had
been ill in bed with rheumatism for three months,
and there were five children, the youngest two
years old. At first, the plan had been for the oldest
son, about twelve, to take care of the others at the
camp. \Vell, father arrived from work while we
were gathering the clans to go. He just couldn’t
let those kiddies go without him, so, without any
sleep, he came along. At the park he insisted on
helping us in every way possible; took excellent
care of the five youngsters, and when we got back
home, he said what a lovely time he had had, and
hoped that none of the group had caused us
trouble that day. He was just splendid, and we
all appreciated his spirit and helpfulness."

\Vhen the time for ending the season came,
there were many expressions of regret, but also
of appreciation of the pleasures of the camp. The
director has recorded some of these in brief sen-
tences: “Frequently the children said as they left
the bus. ‘GoocL-by, Teacher. See you next year.’
‘Don't forget our street next year. \Ve surely
enjoyed ourselves.’ A mother said: ‘This is the
hrst time that I ever remember anything like this
being done for the mothers. It’s fine, and we
surely appreciated it.’ ”

A Cooperative Venture

A much—asked Question by parents was: “Who
does this, anyway?” The answer brought out the
real strength of the project, and the reason for its
unique success. “The Philadelphia Playground
and Recreation Association furnished the equip-
ment, rooms, milk, director and assistant, program
and administration; the Board of Education pro-
vided the buses and drivers; L.\V.D. supplied Mr.
Nissman, and the Park Department gave the use
of the park and the. life guard.”

That is, indeed, the ultimate in cooperation, and
may well be commended as an unfailing formula

for success with any‘kind of project, recreational
or not.

If your city should conduct a day camp during
the summer of 1935, will you not send us at the
end of the season an account of the program and
the results secured? The National Recreation
Association is anxious to have as complete as pos-
sible a record of such experiments throughout the
country. The information which is secured will
be made available for the use of all who may be
interested.

On the Summer Playgrounds ot I934

NE 0F THE popular
0 activities on the
Salt Lake City play—
grounds last summer was
the city-wide contest in
sand modeling, accom-
panied by sand table ex-
hibits.

At the institute for rec-
reation workers held in the
beginning of the summer
the suggestion was made
that a theme be selected
each day for the entire kin-
dergarten program, which
could be carried out in all
activities. If, for example,
the topic for the day was
Holland, in the construction period tulips, wind-
mills and Dutch characters were cut out and col-
ored; the dancing period which followed was de—
voted to Dutch folk dances, impersonating wind—
mills and the like; during the singing hour, “I
\\'ish I Had aW'indmill" was taught which readily
became the theme song for the day; the story of
the boy who saved the dike was told. and the
children went to the sand box where a Dutch
scene was constructed.

The creation of sand tables, rather than ordi—
nary sand boxes, was brought about by the elabo-
ration of scenes which were desired to be kept
intact. For from daily themes weekly ones de-
veloped in order that more details might be in-
corporated, and wooden trees, houses, fences,
barns and boats replaced the Himsy paper articles.
Clothespins, with paint, paper, paste and the ex—
ercise of a little ingenuity, made
delightful figurines. It was not .

 

city-wide sand table con-
test. Each playground was
allowed to select its own
theme. One constructed a
model city, with backyard
playgrounds, streets ar-
ranged with the safety of
children considered, a well-
equipped school yard, and
a center park with a golf
course, swimming pool,
tennis courts, baseball
fields, and a children’s
playground.

Among the most popu-
lar tales were Rapunzel,
Tin Soldier, The Little
Lambkin, the Pied Piper,
(with dozens of clay rats %” long), The Farmer
in the Dell, the Three Bears, Little Red Riding
Hood. Even the inside of grandmother’s house
was finished in the greatest detail and the Three
Little Pigs made clever themes. The entire story
could be traced by the figures in the sand.

Scenes depicting various countries were also
constructed—grass houses, very blue water (paper
under glass) with dozens of bathers on its shores,
surf—board riders, dolls in grass skirts pictured
“Hawaii”; castles, kilts, mountains and lakes pre—
sented colorful Scotland. Three judges went from
playground to playground and selected the win-
ners whose award was the honor of winning and
points toward the playground banner.

With the Indians in Louisville!

The fascination which any American Indian
subject holds for most of us
added impetus to the summer

long until the interest of the
older children was aroused and
they too wanted to model. The
sand tables were made by nail-
ing a 3 inch board around the
edge of a regular playground
table.

The climax was reached in a

In the preceding article the Play-
ground and Recreation Associa-
tion of Philadelphia has reported
the day camp as its outstanding
activity. In some cities music,
handcraft, drama and various other
interests were predominant. We
present here a few of these high
lights in the hope that they may
have suggestions for other cities.

handcraft program in Louis-
ville, Kentucky. The annual
playground play contest was
based on Indian themes, so it
was with little urging that the
children and the grown—ups
started to make the many prop-
erties required. Tepees were

147

148 ON THE SUMMER PLAYGROUNDS OF 1934

fashioned from burlap bags sewn together, brown
wrapping paper and old sheets painted in'approv-
ed Indian style and color. Macaroni, painted and
broken into short lengths and then strung, made
necklaces. Melon seeds colored with crepe paper
dye, and bits of colored magazine advertisements
rolled into cylinders also made effective beads,
while polished tin provided material for jewelry
making. War bonnets and other headdresses were
made from crepe paper, feathers and painted tag
board. Twisted strands of black crepe paper and
old stockings became long, realistic braids of hair
for the Indian maidens. Moccasins were created
from old tennis slippers and sneakers painted with
appropriate designs. Tin cans filled with pebbles
served for rattles.

The “boom-boom” of the Indian drums came
from wooden cheese boxes and large lard cans
covered with stretched canvas and decorated with
mystic symbols. A local pottery furnished slightly
chipped jars and bowls at give-away prices, and
four-hour enamel was used to give them a per-
inanent decoration.. Snowshoes were woven from
willows gathered near the Ohio river which also
furnished shells for other projects. Burlap bags,
expertly cut and decorated, supplied the basis for
most of the costumes, and so well done was the
work that these costumes belied their humble
origin. One playground made a beautiful canoe
of light wooden strips of paper mounted on a
coaster wagon which supplied the necessary power
for the canoe to glide majestically on its way..

Getting away from the Indian theme, a very
popular project was the making of Kentucky
picture maps. These were made on a sheet of
tagboard, 18x24 inches. A large outline of the
state was drawn inside a decorative border and
the state space was filled with small figures repre-
senting geographical and historical places and in-
cidents such as the Kentucky Derby, My Old Ken-
tucky Home, Mammoth Cave, etc. Daniel Boone,
colored mammies, southern colonels, and race
horses were used to fill odd spaces between the
state outline and the border. These were all traced
from multigraphed patterns in pencil, retraced
with black ink, colored with water colors or cray—
ons, and then given two coats of clear shellac. As
a decorative wall panel these interesting maps
were extremely attractive, and the fact that hun-
dreds of them were made attests to their appeal.
Some of the playgrounds made maps of their
play center showing the wading pool, ball dia-

monds, shelter house, trees, shrubbery, and count-
less other points of interest on playground.

The Ever-Popular Handcraft Program

All three of the playgrounds which have been
conducted for a number of years by the Play-
ground and Recreation Association of Philadel-
phia had splendid exhibits of the children’s hand-
work such as: posters, doll furniture and houses;
costumes for fashion shows; villages of several
sorts; a circus; lanterns, baskets, and all sorts of
articles made from paper and cardboard. Tot Lot,
however, carried off highest honors in the arts
and crafts, and a special project was conducted
there by the older boys in cooperation with the art
teacher. This was the making and painting of the
set for the closing dramatic presentation, “The
Selfish Giant,” and was especially interesting be-
cause it was done on heavy wrapping paper. Most
of the prOperties for the play were also made at
Tot Lot, and the scene was set up by the boys
who made it. Each playground had an episode,
made their own costumes, directed their special
features, and took charge of tHe presentation in
the final production.

Handcraft was also popular on the playgrounds
conducted by the Philadelphia Bureau of Recrea-
tion, and the exhibit held in the Mayor’s recep-
:tion room was a successful demonstration of the
use to which discarded and scrap material may be
put. Old felt hats had been utilized to make gym-
nasium and dancing sandals; cigar boxes painted
and decorated and with a few partitions added
had been turned into attractive stocking boxes; a
first-class loco°motive had been made from two tin
cans, skate wheels, two jar tops, a piano hinge
and paint. Old silk stockings had been trans-
formed into scatter rugs, and odds and ends of
wool into beautiful afghans.

Drama

Last summer twenty-three playgrounds con-
ducted by the Springfield, Illinois, Recreation De-
partment, enjoyed a drama program. All groups
entered the drama festival competition, fifteen
plays being given in a single afternoon before a
large audience. The Department conducted five
drama clubs for children at the community center.
The club plays are given before the center audi-
ence and then taken on invitation to various insti-
tutions and club meetings. The children also
broadcast over the local station during the recre-
ation leadership periods.

ON THE SUMMER PLAYGROUNDS OF 1934 149

Shuffleboard in Oklahoma City

Shuffleboard, according to George W. Daniel-
son, SUperintendent of Recreation, Oklahoma
City Park Department, proved one of the most
successful games used last summer on the play-
grounds of that city. It was enjoyed by people of
all ages from six year old boys to grandmothers.
No small part of the popularity was due to the
inexpensiveness of the game. Sidewalks and ends
of concrete tennis courts served for the courts.
The court lines, being narrow, required little paint
and the cues and disks were made at very small
cost. The Recreation Department secured the
services of a carpenter and a sign painter from
the F.E.R.A. The carpenter made the cues and
disks from scrap material and the painter deco-
rated them so that they had the appearance of
manufactured equipment.
The painter also lined the
courts.

In response to popular
demand, a city—wide tourna-
ment was held. Entrants
included not only those who
had been playing on the
park courts but a number
of vacationists who brought
their own manufactured
equipment which the chil-
dren carefully looked over
and then duplicated in the
handcraft shop.

Camping

Thousands of children enjoyed camping in the
summer of 1934, and a number of new camps
were established. Among these. were the vacation
camps which the Arizona ERA and the Tucson
Department of Playgrounds and Recreation con-
ducted. Two camps were established, one for
girls at Mount Lemmon, 71 miles from the city.
Here the Boy Scouts’ camp site was used and the
girls enjoyed a two weeks stay. The other camp,
for boys, was at Pinery Canyon, 131 miles from
Tucson, where the Y.M.C.A. buildings were used.
All camp expenses were paid from ERA funds;
the Recreation Department organized the pro-
gram and inspected the camps each week. The
Department was also responsible for the selection
of directors and other workers. An advisory com-
mittee of citizens aided the project.

  

A view of one of the camps concted
by the Oakland Recreation Department

A number of cities experimented with day
camps, among them Minneapolis where, according
to a statement received from William Kelty, stay-
at-home camping proved very successful.

An organization operating under the local com-
munity fund sponsored the undertaking and, for
a very small sum, the children received the bene-
ficial routine of camp life during the day, re-
turning to their homes each evening. Both girls
and boys of ages ranging from six to fifteen years
were included in the six weeks camping period.
The majority remained for two weeks, although
a longer or shorter period was permissible.

After the children had been segregated into
three groups according to age, activities began.
Each morning the campers met at a designated
place with specially selected counsellors for the
day’s program. This includ-
ed athletics and games, for
which a public school play-
ground was utilized, and
s w i mm i n g and aquatic
sports, specially chartered
buses conveying the chil-
dren to neighboring bathing
beaches. Overnight trips
play a part, but story—tell—
ing, hobby work, and the
publication of a camp paper
were more important ac-
tivities.

One innovation was
greatly enjoyed. The campers were taken in buses
-—or sometimes they walked—to some of the
city’s many points of interest from an artistic or
historic standpoint or from the point of View of
industrial and commercial progress.

Each noon a luncheon was served, a wholesome
meal being insured through the careful super-
vision of trained dietitians.

 

Citizenship Week

The greatest and most thrilling week of School
Number 19 Play Area in Rochester, New York,
occurred the week when the election of officers
for the play area’s model government was to be
held. The would—be chiefs of police and the
mayors requested volunteers to campaign for
them. The candidates—to—be hired publicity agents
to play up their names before the people and show
the great value that they could have for the model
government.

150 ON THE SUMMER PLAYGROUNDS OF 1934

The publicity agents paint-
ed signs on cardboards and
colored papers of the differ-
ent candidates. The card—
board signs were distributed
around the school and the
paper signs were nailed on
the trees in the neighboring
streets around the play area.
In the days to follow the
children and even the parents
were in a frenzy wondering
who would win the elections.

Positions open for nomination were: Mayor,
the judges (adult and juvenile), police commis-
sioner and district attorney, and also two assist-
ant district attorneys, and park commissioner.

of interest.

The candidates on the day of the election were
seated in big high chairs on the stage. The hall
was filled with the pretentious audience. As the
candidates were offered for nomination the people
of the audience would hesitate for a few moments
as in doubt for whom he should vote when he
had perhaps with all probability voiced the names
of his candidates for nomination the day before.
After the course of perhaps an hour to an hour
and a half the officials of the model government
were Chosen. '

The days of Monday, W'ednesday and Friday
were agreed upon to be the days for the trying of
all misdemeanors.

The prisoner had the choice of pleading guilty
or not guilty to the charge placed against him. If
he pleaded not guilty, he could ask one of the two
lawyers of the play area to defend him. The
lawyer then could ask for an adjournment of the
case to a later date. If he knew enough of the
prisoner’s case, he could defend his claimant the
same day. In case the prisoner pleaded guilty or
was found guilty, sentences were imposed on the
offenders by the judge. A few of the sentences
were— “Sweep out the court room and take care
of the chairs after court” or “Bring in the bags
off the ball diamond every night for a week,” or
sentences too trivial to mention. But to the prison—
ers they seemed mammoth!

The benefit derived from this system of gov-
ernment has shown the children the desirability
of cooperating to make the play area a success. It
has been pointed out to the children that it is their
play area and whatever happens on it reflects on
them.

\

Under the auspices of the Community
Council on Summer Activities of Roches-
terl New York. have been created what
are ltnown as Rochester Play Areas.
Citizenship Weelt was one of the out-
standing activities of the program. The
information presented here was written
by Charles Clark, one of the boys on
Number I? School Play Area. It was
sent us by Beatrice Parmenterl Super-
visor of the New Era Classes. Play lead-
ers who are developing junior leaders
among older boys and girls will tind this

Several other activities were
taught and demonstrated at
classes during the week. One
of the instructors taught first
aid showing how to bandage
some part of the body and
telling the class in the most
interesting manner why a
tourniquet should be applied
above a cut, how to put on a
bandage, the kind of band-
age, and the medicine to be
used on the wound.

Leadership training was one of the most im-
portant classes stressed. At classes held once a
week the importance of leadership of older boys
was pointed out. When the instructor felt that a
person in his class was capable of taking care of
some sport or entertainment he placed him in full

charge.

Junior Leadership

The question of the use of older boys and girls
on the playgrounds as junior leaders is one which
is constantly coming to the front. Writing on this
subject Beatrice Keating of the Houston, Texas,
Recreation Department pointed out that junior
playground organizations need not be definite
groups organized for a special purpose with par-

~ticular objectives and responsibilities. It may, she

points out, be a natural group developed pri-
marily for the convenience of massed action or
cooperation and with ideals instead of rules. It
may be formed not solely with the idea of benefit-
ing the program but for the purpose of reaping
the full benefit of the program. W'ith such an
organization aggressive boys and girls need not be
made leaders but must be made to realize that they
are leaders and brought to feel the responsibility
they have as such.

This is the organization in force in the Root
Square leaders’ club of Houston whose members
are all girls from twelve to eighteen years of age
who want to belong and whose aims are to have
the best possible time and to give a maximum
amount of help to the playground. There is no
badge and the girls do not consider it their ambi-
tion in life to lead games and do police duty. They
are very conscious that they are leaders and that
the playground is judged by their conduct, spirit
and achievements. They know that they enjoy
many activities which would be impossible if

(’Cmm'mg‘cd on page 176)

Playground Planning and Layout

Mr. Clegg gives us in these obser-
vations a leaf from his experience
as Playround Engineer in the City
of Milwaukee, where he has planned
many playgrounds and field houses.

LIVE IN a rented house and dream of a home

of my own. For years my wife and I have

collected house plans and have a box full of
them clipped from innumerable sources, but we
have never found exactly the right one. Every
plan in our collection must be changed just a lit-
tle to meet our special requirements or to satisfy
our taste.

A parallel situation exists in playground de-
Sign. There is no ideal plan. No two conditions
are identical. The size of the site; the existing
trees or structures upon it; the available money
for improvements; the type and extent of super-
vision or play leadership; the racial heritage and
the economic status of the peOple who will use it
—all vary.

Under such variable conditions, it is not sur-
prising .that the standard of facilities offered and
the physical arrangement of playgrounds differ
widely. And that is as it should be. When the
playground plan is standardized and no longer
expresses the individuality of the site, the neigh—
borhood, or the city, in some measure it falls
short of its greatest possibilities. Blind copying
of one successful plan or the unstudied acceptance
of what has been done in the past is not planning
any more than clipping house plans from a news-
paper in good architecture. Every playground
should be individually planned and, if possible,
the plan should be prepared by one who is more
than a good play leader, who knows the play
leader’s aims and problems but who is also keenly
conscious of the community’s interest in the cost
and appearance of the playground.

Such a playground designer approaches his
problem from many angles. He aims (I) to get
the maximum use from the land available; (2) to
produce an attractive playground viewed from

By
GILBERT CLEGG

MilwaukeeI Wisconsin

within or without; (3) to simplify the problems
of supervision and play leadership; (4) to pre-
vent accidents by careful segregation of activi-
ties; (5) to keep Operating costs low, and (6) to
keep original construction costs low.

There is nothing mysterious or bafflineg intri-
cate about playground planning, but it does con-
sist of more than fencing a piece of land, erecting
apparatus and saying. “There it is, boys. Have a
good time.”

Planning Involved

Under ideal conditions the planning will start
before there is a playground. The playground
planner will collaborate with the body which
selects school sites and with the city planner to
assist in determining the exact location and size
of the playground. After the land is acquired
the planning may be divided into two operations
—( I) the analysis of the problem, and (2) draw-
ing the plan. Of the two operations the analysis
is the more important. Unless it is clearly under—
stood how the playground is going to be operated
and by whom it will be used one might just as
well copy stock plans.

The type of supervision is one of the most im-
portant factors affecting the layout. If there is
to be a custodian whose only concern is preserv-
ing the peace and preventing destruction of pro-
perty, the plan will be far different than if there
is to be a play leader or several leaders working
with different age and sex groups. Ususally the
custodial supervision is found in the larger parks
where children go on special outings, often times
for a whole day, and usually accompanied by
adults. Such outings are not an every day oc-
currence and under these conditions the oppor-
tunity for organized play is slim. This is the

151

152 PLAYGROUND PLANNING AND LAYOUT

only place for the unusal and
the J‘thrill type” of apparatus.
High swings, revolving equip-
ment, and long, undulating
slides will not be used beyond
the thrill stage and there will
be little‘ temptation to experi-
ment with unorthodox and
frequently dangerous varia-
tions in use. The parent usual-
ly accompanies the child on
these picnics and is on the alert
to prevent accidents. The de-
sign of these custodian-super-
vised playgrounds is primarily
a problem of the landscape
architect to preserve natural
beauty and develop separated
open spaces where family
groups may play their own
games, all convenient to a field
house for toilet facilities and
shelter.

The neighborhood play-
ground is different from the
more distant park playground
in that the same group of chil—
dren use it almost every day.
Usually it is small, and to pre-
vent “hogging” of space by
the more aggressive gang, it is
necessary to organize play
groups under trained leader-
ship. Apparatus upon such a
playground must be the simpl-
est and safest 0n the market
and the importance of even
this decreases as the leader
perfects his group organiza-
tion. The effective leader has
children playing together in-
stead of with things. Because
these neighborhood play-
grounds are almost always too
small, and because of the high
cost of land, the division of
the playground for certain ac-
tivities, the arrangement of
these. divisions, the amount and
kind of equipment, demand a
careful study of local condi-
tions and the most skillfully
prepared plan.

 

BUILD]

A; ‘-
3
.5

VOttEY .RLL

- I
E nan-urban.

5W3 VOILEI'Q

{ u. a. 'Io‘o. -'_° J o"

VOLI. l:bhtL
6| 3! atoms.

" i
or : .
"I 1,...
. . ml:
. n j
. o "
1 y)-
: ‘\-
, '1 a -
' i
-: ° 5
. J.
. ‘

 

'1

..

is)

0i! ’1‘

a
gia.

,_ .I . {I

g, 

, O -

LADDIHS
‘ t

o I
re ’

“nu-asuwiruu

PLAN OF SIEFERT PLAYGROUND, MILWAUKEE

Designed by GILBERT CLECC

Property dimensions, 440' x 315'. Area, 3.18 acres. Active play
Area occupiéd by school building, .39
acres or 12%. Area of grass and shrub strips, walks, pool, etc.,

space, 1.97 acres or 62%.

.82 acres or 26%. Property is surrounded by four streets. Long
axis runs north and south. Playground is flood lighted for night
use. Boys9 area is “dished” for winter skating. Playground is
screcned from streets by a 13 foot grass and shrub border. Open
space has been left near exits of school. There is a main open
space for baseball and running games and a Secondary open
space for volley ball and basketball and for smaller boys" games.
The pool and park area where both boys and girls play is acces-
sible to the two play areas, and the apparatus is grouped away
from most active play. The planting is so planned that it does not
interfere with play.

PLAYGROUND PLANNING AND LAYOUT 153

The Activities

The kind of neighborhood, the kind and age of
children to be served, the local traditions and
preference have much to do with the activities on
a playground and consequently the layout. Ten-
nis may be popular, but there may be sufficient
courts near by and here always enters the problem
of justifying the reservation of 650 square yards
of valuable play space for the use of four people.
A skating rink may be difficult to work into the
plan, but if no other place is within easy reach,
the extra cost may be worth while. A wading pool
may draw great crowds in one part of a city but
fail to attract in another because a nearby park or

 

The wading pool at Burbank Playground, Milwaukee.
has been made to fit into the contour of the land

beach may have a more attractive pool with
pleasant accommodations for mothers. Baseball,
soccer, and football have enthusiastic followings,
but the players are old enough to travel considera-
ble distances to suitable heldsand these space de-
vouring activities should not be crowded into a
playground to the disadvantage of play space for
young children. As a general rule boys want play-
ground ball diamonds, and if that is all there is
room for it is better to have a simple layout with
a good ball diamond and nothing else than a'
cramped diamond, and a cramped volley ball
court, all crowded against an assortment of ap-
paratus.

Details of the plans, as, for example, surfacing.
should be settled by analysis of the problem. None

of us likes the hard, barren, all weather type of
surfacing so often used. It isn’t a question of
likes and dislikes; it is a question of meeting de-
finite requirements. If the playground is in con-
junction with a school and the children must use
it the year round, good weather and bad, then at
least some portion of the grounds must be sur-
faced to be available under all conditions. If the
grounds are large, possibly some can be left in
turf, but it is the exceptional school playground
that has extensive grounds and ample play facili-
ties that can be left entirely in turf. A part of
many of our northern playgrounds is Hooded for
a skating rink. Our experience is that where
turf is flooded almost all
grass is killed and the cost of
maintenance is high. Where
flooding is a routine matter a
hard surfaced area is more

satisfactory. For some games,
as, for example, volley ball
and basketball, a true, hard
surface is desirable, and even
under ideal space conditions
it is probable that some area

will be hard surfaced. The
type of surfacing is not im-
portant in so far as the gen-
eral layout is concerned and
will not be discussed here.

Buildings are always ex-
pensive and the need for a
building and its exact use de-
serve very careful considera-
tion. If the playground is in conjunction with a
school it may be possible to ’utilize the school
building for toilets, equipment storage, storm
shelter and craft work. If the playground is in-
dependent of any school building the field house
may vary all the way from a box for tools and
equipment to a large building with all'the facili-
ties of a community center. If it is decided that
a large building is necessary and finances dictate
a small building, the playground plan should be
made upon the basis of the large building, and, if
possible, the structure that can be erected with
funds available should be a part of the larger
plan. The building-architect and the playground
designer must work in perfect coordination that
the floor plan, entrances, and maintenance and
supervision facilities dovetail perfectly with the
general plan.

154 PLAYGROUND PLANNING AND LAYOUT

The possibility of evening play under flood (1'. Degree of segregation
lights should be considered becaUse the layout of (2) Circulation (Le. ease of moving about)
ball diamonds, basketball and volley ball courts,. a. From the street to the playground
horseshoe courts, and, to a lesser degree, all the 5- T0 drinkilig fountains

activities, are affected. The beams of light should 6' To tO‘letS .
d. To the neutral areas and quiet corners

in so far as possible light the ball at right angles a For safety___partiwlarly affecting loca_
to its normal flight and from two sides to prevent tion of apparatuS

confusing shadows. For playground ball the main (3) Appearances

sources of light may well be on both ends of a

_ a. Simple, orderly layout
line drawn through first and third bases. For bas-

b. Planting for beauty

ket and volley ball the light should be across the (1) Viewed from the outside

short axis of the court and from both sides. The (2) Internal views

poles which SUpport these lights mUst be so placed ( 3) Screening of maintenance opera-
that they do not interfere with active play. “(NW—light eqmpment

C. Details of planning sUch as:

The organization of the selected activities into (1) Heicrht and style of fences
b

a workable, economical and beautiful playground (2) Seats

design starts upon the drafting board. The exact (3) Building architecture

starting point and technique is a matter of per- (4) “fading P0015

sonal preference. In my experience the plan just (4.} Maintenance

grows; tentative layouts are made, flaws are a. Service areas and buildings

found in them, new layouts are drawn and the b. Circulation and entrances for equipment

'6. 1Water system, sewer system

process is c0ntinued until the plan is evolved. If _ ‘ _ _
(5) DeSign of details

a schedule had to be prepared. it would be some-

thinglike this: a. Selection of apparatus; kind of sur-
faces, etc.
(I) Segregation of Activities (7. Establishment of grades
a. Sex 6. Planting plan
(5. Age 0'. "Writing specifications

6' Kind Of attivity A view of Holt Avenue Playground, Milwaukee, (6) Estimate 0f COSt
showing boys' area with surrounding planting

a-  i- a .
 -' . .4 'c , .3"
it Hit 5'1" f 133‘  .

’1': _ -.
I f _- .-'  r

r ' I? I"  3*. - 

 

PLAYGROUND PLANNING AND LAYOUT 155

' \Vith such a schedule no one part is started and
carried to completion as an independent opera—
tion: the plan is built up simultaneously and this
interrelation must be constantly in the designer’s
mind. Discussion of the plan, one phase at a
time, will of necessity seem disjointed, but no
other ways seem open, and I’ll touch upon the de—
tails following the above outline.

Segregation of Activities

I There must be some segregation of activities.
Baseball and sand box modeling, volley ball and
airplane building, don't mix. In planning the
grounds, the activity requiring the most space, in
which there are the most running and throwing,
is located first. If there are to be two such areas,
one for boys and one for girls, the boys’ space
will be larger because they hit further and run
wilder. No hard and fast rule can be set down,
but if a twelve inch playground ball is used the
boys should have a 200 foot batting radius and
the girls can get along with 125 feet. The increas-
ing interest in playground ball is likely to lead to
new standards. For small grounds where a 200
foot radius is impossible it is probable that a 14
inch ball will be standard and llpOI] larger grounds
the 12 inch ball will be used.

The segregation is dependent upon the number
of play leaders and becomes greater as the num-
ber of play leaders increases. In homogeneous
neighborhoods of home owners, segregation of
sexes is desirable only for the playing of the more
vigorous games by the chldren of adolescence and
older. The younger children usually play their
games together, just as they play t0gether within
the family'circle.

These active play areas are located so that in-
ter-play traffic does not cut across them. Off from
the main path of traffic
may be located smaller
areas: one equipped with
apparatus; another fenced
and surfaced to be used
for volley ball, basketball
or paddle tennis; another
for horseshoes; another
for shuffleboard, handball
or similar games; another
with sand box, shade and
perhaps a pool for very
small children and their
mothers; and finally, a
service area. On the large

FOUR SURE TESTS

I. Are the boys and girls who use the play-
ground satisfied? Do they play the games
where indicated on the plan, or do they try
to overcome some shortcomings by a rear-
rangement of their own?

2. ls the play leader enthusiastic and con-
vinced that he has a real playground or is he
always suggesting important changes?

3. Are the taxpayers satisfied with the re-
turn on the investment, and

4. Do the neighbors look upon the play-
ground as a nuisance or a benefit? Would
they like to see the site return to its former use
or are they proud of the playground?

playgrounds there will be room for tennis courts,
regulation baseball diamonds, soccer, field hockey,
and football fields. The method of separating
these specialized activity areas will depend upon
many factors: there may be definite fences in con-
gested grounds where safety from flying balls is
an important consideration; there may be a few
trees and shrubs where there is no congestion and
the total area is large, or there may be no physi-

cal barrier at all.
In the evolution of the Plan, as these different

areas are located the paths used for the most
direct passage from one to another and to the
drinking fountains and toilets can be foreseen. To
avoid confusion the areas should be arranged to
produce a very simple pattern of paths to prevent
interference and make easier the problem of
supervision. The location of drinking fountains,
toilets and the play director‘s store room should
be studied to prevent interference with active play
groups. Circulation can be guided and safety pro—
moted by careful Placing of entrances from the
street. Gates in the middle of a block may be a
cause of accidents because motorists do not ex-
pect children to dart out from the middle of a
fenced playground.

This pattern of the various play areas and the
paths of travel can be emphasized and made at-
tractive with plantings of trees and shrubbery so
that the planting seems to be the reason for the
location of the play areas. \Vithin the playground
itself, particularly near the areas devoted to the

. most active play, the planting should be trees

only, for shrubbery is not robust enough to stand
the abuse it is likely to get. Around the quiet ac-
tivity spaces. such as a wading pool or mothers’
area, and along the boundaries of the playground,
the selection of plant material may be wider and
and richer. Perennial beds
may be introduced and, if
interest in nature study is
aroused, the nature clubs
may plan beds of annuals.
In general, the landscape
work should take its cue
from the homes of the
neighborhood, and be just
a little better than the pri-
vate grounds across the
street that the playground
may be a sample of what
can be done toward neigh—
borhood improvement.

(Continued on. page 177)

 

The Swimming Pool on the Playground

A LARGE NUMBER of the play-

grounds of this country

now have swimming pools

on the grounds or in school

buildings near by. Since swimming is such a joy-

ous and beneficial sport, it is conceivable that the

time may come when all playgrounds constructed
will include a swimming pool.

The first step in organizing a swimming pro—

gram with the playground should be the regis-

tration of all children. Each child should bring a

doctor’s permit stating that he is free from con- '-

tagious diseases. This insures more sanitary con-
ditions about the pool.

Every summer the playground could have a learn-
to—swim campaign which should last two weeks, as
one week is a rather short time to conduct a pro-
gram of this nature. The pool should be used only
for instructional purposes during this learn—to—
swim campaign. Every schedule and program will
i have to be adjusted to the needs of the community.
Below is a sample schedule that might be intro-

duced in a majority of the playground pools.

9 :00- 9 :45—Beginners, boys and girls
six to ten
10:00—10:45—Beginners all above ten
11:00—11:45—Intermediate girls above

ten
2:00- 2:45—Intermediate boys above

ten important step

3 :00- 3 :45—Diving, boys and girls ten

4:00— 4:45—Life saving, juniors and
seniors

5 :00— 5 :30—Competitive swimming,

156

By HERBERT G. ALLPHIN

Swimming Instructor'
University of Kansas

Mr. Allphin believes that the

promotion of swimming pro-
grams at playgrounds is a very
toward the en-
ioyable use of leisure in future
years. He urges that everything
possible be done to encourage
boys swimming and water sports.

Another plan which could be
utilized would be to have al—
ternate days for boys and girls.
For example, the girls could
take lessons on Mondays, \Vednesdays and Fri-‘
days, while the boys could attend on Tuesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays. In this case the hours
could be adjusted to suit the occasion.

The water work in conjunction with the play-
ground pool should be divided into about four
divisions as follows:

I. Beginners 3. Advanced
2. Intermediates 4. Life saving

This grouping will offer several degrees of in-
struction and should make the swim week more
interesting to all concerned.

It will be noticed in the schedule that lifteen
minutes are allowed between each period. This is
done to permit the change of one class to another
and to make sure that the beginners meeting from

9:00 to 9:45 are all out of the pool before the
10:00 o’clock class is allowed to enter. Leaders
must be selected by the swimming directors to

help with life guard duty, demon-
strate different strokes, assist in
taking rolls and perform any
other duties which may arise on
an occasion of this kind. These
leaders should attend a training
school given by the director be-
(Continued on page 178)

The King of Games Conquers the Playground

Do children enjoy playing chess? Milwaukee's
experience proves beyond doubt that they do!

AST SUMMER the Extension Department of the
Milwaukee public schools experimented with
the teaching of chess on the playgrounds.

Although the game had been taught very success—
fully in the social centers for four years there was
naturally some question as to how well it would
“take” with boys and girls on the playgrounds.
Only a demonstration would answer this question.

During the last three weeks of the playground
season, fifteen playgrounds were selected for the
experiment. An instructor was sent to each of
these playgrounds for fOUr lessons, each lesson
lasting not over one and one-half hours. The re-
sult was not only gratifying but very successful.
Boys and girls ranging from ages of eight to
twenty-three years dropped the ball and bat and
equipment of more active games to take lessons
in chess. As a result 900 boys and girls were in-
structed by these itinerant teachers.

The Procedure

The classes were organized through the
medium of bulletin board posters and an-
nouncements during the story hour. After the
first lesson so much enthusiasm was displayed
by those who had had the instruction that new-
comers were constantly joining the classes.
Those who grasped the game more rapidly as-
sisted the laggards.

The method of procedure and instruction
was as follows: The first
lesson consisted of instruc-
tion in the name of each
piece, En Passant and the 3'000

FACTS ABOUT CHESS IN MILWAUKEE

4.200 at beginnersl classes
at advanced classes

Queening of the Pawn and simple game play-
ing. Lesson four took in Ruy Lopez and Guicco

Piano opening.

The Problem of Equipment

Equipment for chess is expensive, and one
of the first problems that arose was that of
providing sets for the playgrounds. But the
solution was quickly found when the children
discovered they could make the sets during
playground handcraft periods. Drug stores and
other commercial places deve10ping camera
films were glad to contribute the spools on
which the films are wound. These spools,
which have two metal ends, were cut in two,
and the chess figure was cut out of a piece of
pasteboard and stuck in the slit which is in the
spool. The children dipped one set of chess
men in black paint and the other in white, and
a complete chess set was ready for use. Some
of the more ambitious children carved the
figures out of wood instead of pasteboard and
after painting them finished them with shellac
making very attractive sets. ’ '

And On They Go!

Several playgrounds organized teams and
have inter-playground matches. The Sherman
playground conducted a tournament in which
seventy-four boys participated, while another
playground conducted a
girls’ tournament in which
.there were twenty-two
entries.

object of the game. Les— 7 municipal leagues As a result in the inter-
son two was a repetition' 48 municipal league teams est aroused in the sum-
of lesson one plus Castl- 208 mun"3'P<'=‘I league players mer program, clubs were

ing, board notation, the
value of pieces, stalemate,
perpetual check, etc. Les-
son three .took up the play.

2.460 attendance in municipal league play
| annual city tournament
I annual state tournament

5.000 in municipal chess room annual for

organized in- the fall at
the social centers. A series
of six free lessons for be—
g‘inners was given at three

157

158 THE KING OF GAMES CONQUERS THE PLAYGROUND

S CD‘S for 'HnQ

' s icons
“lift: «tsunami; Mi?”
Kma- -— 231nm”.

1155"“ Q71 . Bishop
l5HOP- 1 3/4 '

 

 

 

P

Knleur- 17:. '
CASTLE- 11a- ‘
PAHN .. 3/4; “

 

Uecn Pawn

 

 

 

Don'i be discouraged at the cost of chess equipment.

centers. There was
also a group of
twelve lessons for those who had advanced
from the beginners group or for those with
some knowledge of the game.

Today chess fans in Milwaukee have a mu-
nicipal playroom at the Lapham Park Social
Center which is open to the public every Mon-
day and Friday evenings the year around. Sev-
eral tournaments of advanced types are spon-
sored for all classes of players and one or more
nationally famous masters are brought to the
city for simultaneous exhibitions.

A few facts about the terms used in chess
may be of interest to prospective players:

The object of the game is to pretend to cap-
ture the opponent’s King. When capture is
threatened, the King is in check (Ch or +).
\Vhen capture is inevitable the King is “check-
mate” (—I— +) and the game is won. When the
King is not in check but no move can be made
without placing him in check, he is in “stale-
mate” and the game is a draw or tie.

I’r's easy. and a lot of fun, too, to make your own!

The chess board is
identical with the
checker board. It is placed so that a white
square is at the lower right hand corner of both
players. The rows of alternate squares from
left to right are called ranks, those from bot-
tom to top—i.e.—“straightup”—are called files.
The files are named after the major piece that
occupies them at the start of the game.

Each player has eight Pawns which repre-
sent common soldiers; two Rooks, or Castles;
two Knights, representing the cavalry and
known as the most elusive and dangerous
pieces on the board; two Bishops, one Queen,
the most powerful piece on the board, and one
King. The abbreviation for each piece is the
capital letter starting its name, except that Kt
stands for Knight.

Eric E. Eastman, Assistant County Agent,
Extension Service, Orange County, California,
has prepared a statement incorporating the
rules of the game in brief form. Copies of this
statement may be secured on request from the Na-
tional Recreation Association.

 

. Costume Balls in the Black Hills

OR SEVERAL WEEKS preced-
F ing February 22nd Black
Hills residents donned his-
toric costumes and enjoyed a series of costume
balls. Back of it all was the committee for the
Pageant of America which will be staged in a
giant natural bowl near Rapid City, South Da-
kota, between July 4th and September. The in—
cidents and episodes for the pageant have been
selected in view of their relation to Washington,
Jefferson, Lincoln and Roosevelt, the giant figures
being carved on Mount Rushmore by Gutzum
Borglum.

The purpose of the balls has been to get Black
Hills folks into the spirit of play which will put
them in the pageant mood and will inspire David
Crockett when he is filling the tourist’s gas tank,
Louis the XIV while he is O.K.ing his check or a
Sioux princess when she is serving lunch!

How the spirit of play captured one community
is the theme of this story.

“Yes, we’ll do it,” was the answer of the local
Spearfish, South Dakota, group to the central
pageant committee. And this is how they did it.

First, a representative committee of women was
selected to make plans. The town people were
given opportunity to make nominations for a queen
and a committee representing various organiza-
tions in the town made the selection. The corona-
tion ceremony, announced to take place on the
night of the ball, February 9th, was planned and
carried out by a skilled dramatic coach connected
with the Spearfish Normal School. Special dances

By MARGARET S. BRIDGE
Spearfish, South Dakota

were in the hands of a trained
leader. They all gave their
services.

The grand march was set for 9:00 o’clock.
When the committee on reception arrived at 8:30
it found a crowded hall. Unprecedented! Any
number of townspeople and guests from neigh-
boring towns had come early “to avoid the rush”
and in order not to miss the show. A large per-
centage came in costume. Hoops, panniers, wigs,
knee-breeches, side-burns and large shoe buckles
introduced characters from the Colonial period
through the Civil War. George and Martha Wash-
ington, Daniel Boone, a gambler of Mississippi
River days and a lady of the Empire period were
among those who entered the grand march led by
the Queen of the occasion.

Music, especially planned, introduced a number
of the waltzes and dances of an earlier day. In
the intermissions three guests of honor represent-
ing living history took their places in front of a
microphone and told something of their recollec-
tions. Nonagenariansl all—who had lived through
the administrations of twenty-one of the thirty
presidents of these United States. Two were
Civil war brides. The third, a man, had been in
England when the Civil War started. All had
been born when only three states lay west of the
Mississippi River.

The ball was an occasion of color, and as one
woman said, “It brightened up the village for a
bit.” Another saw in it something of value from

(Continued on page 180)
159

Start Your Planning Now

for the

Summer Closing Festival

grounds in operation than ever before in the

history of the movement. Work relief funds
will place more leaders on the grounds and many
new communities of children will enjoy the ad-
vantages of play with leadership. This means
that more children will follow the graceful cus—
tom of expressing their appreciation for a long
summer of play on public playgrounds in a
pageant or festival marking the close of another

season.

THIS SUMMER will see a larger number of play-

W’hen the playgrounds open the wise super-
visor will begin looking ahead to that closing event
and planning it as a natural development of the
summer. The closing festival has a two—fold pur-
pose. It fUrnishes a goal that spices the long days
of play with a sense of achievement. It also gives
the children an opportunity to prove once more
the benefits of a happy, healthy summer under
play leadership. \Vith a little foresight and plan-
ning the festival can be presented without impos-
ing a last-minute strain on directors and children,
the work of the summer can be utilized, and the
burden ,of the presentation distributed among the
different grounds.

From playgrounds where a little group of play-
ers is accustomed to present plays in some se-
cluded corner, the leading characters can be drawn,
while children who have never had drama experi-
ence can gain some insight into it through par-
ticipation in the various groups. Perhaps the fol-
lowing season will find some child who was a
dancer in the festival joining the little group of
playground players and trying his skill in more
difficult roles.

Since it is impossible to bring the children of
widely scattered grounds together for more than
one rehearsal—and in some cities even this will be

160

’out of the question—the success of the festival
depends on organization and on selecting the type
of material that is easily adapted to the local situ-
ation. Every year the supervisor who has pro-
duced a number of these festivals finds it in—
creasingly difficult to discover another idea or out-
line on which she can build her next presentation.
There are several favorite themes that .are par-
ticularly adaptable. Among these the Robin Hood
motif is a favorite. This story not only provides
opportunities for individual work in the charac-
ters of Robin Hood, Little John, \Vill Stukely,
F riar Tuck and Maid Marion, but in the roles of
villagers, strolling players, minstrels, Merry l\-Ien,
outlaws, Jack o’ the Green, “fill—o’-
the W'isps, flowers, elves, and fair-
ies, every playground child can find a

Syracuse. New

Yo
present a beau’ri'fJ

climax of the sum

 
  

at

\

       

V.

   
 
  
 

‘-
F1 -_
._ “I “
" 4- .5

i

 

la-

1

 

o . '

 

9.

START YOUR PLANNING NOW FOR THE SUMMER CLOSING FESTIVAL

part to play. The English folk dances and archery
that have been part of the season's activities are
ready to be incorporated into the festival. A
charming Robin Hood festival was presented
by the St. Louis public school playgrounds
several years ago and many other cities have
employed the popular legend.

The stories of the Piped Piper and Rip
Van \Vinkle also lend themselves easily to
the playground festival. The councilmen,
the village children, the burghers and the
rats furnish group participation while the
colorful Pied Piper and the little lame boy
are ideal central figures. The little men of
the mountain, the Dutch villagers, fireflies and
other nature groups form the choruses in the
story of Rip’s adventure. Bowling and folk danc-
ing can be utilized.

Indian pageants and festivals seem to fit un-
usually well in the summer program. A number
of years ago the season was devoted to Indian
lore, handcraft, dancing, etc., in Reading, Penn-
sylvania, and at the close of the summer an In-
dian pageant was presented. Details of this pro-
duction are described in the bulletin An Indian
Pageant in Reading, Pa.*

The following report of an Indian play festi-

val presented last summer by the Rec-

161

many suggestions which other communities might
follow. '

“For the past two summers dramatics has played

Every year pageants and festivals conceived and de-
veloped by recreation workers are presented at the end
of the season—and pass into limbo as far as the possi-
bility of other communities profiting by them is concern-
ed. The Drama Service of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation here makes the plea that every playground super-
visor who produces an original pageant or festival this
summer send in a copy of the manuscript, a program or
even a newspaper clipping describing the event.

its part’ in the regular playground program, but
the Indian plays have proved most popular and
have attracted more adults and boys to participate
in them. Because of the rich store of Indian lore
in our Kentucky history, this central theme for
dramatization seemed best adapted. Our parks,
named for the Cherokee, Shawnee, Iroquois and
Seneca Indians, immediately opened up an avenue
for adventure. The library was appealed to for
material and it was found that it, too, had gone
primitive, having chosen for its children’s reading
course a study of the North American Indians,
and a vast amount of material was on tap. The
Filson Club, the'local historical sodety specializ-
ing in Kentuckiana, was helpful in locating ma-

reation Division of the Louisville De-
partment of Public \Velfare offers

terial for the two pioneer plays dealing with the
infancy of the state.

one of the cities to
door festival as the

'laygmund Pr°9ram- “Perhaps one of the biggest values of the In-

dian plays was the amount of ingenuity and in-
dustry 'displayed in presentation. Cheese boxes
were transformed into beatable tom-toms, kegs
became water drums by cutting up discarded in-
ner tubes and nailing them taut across the open-
ing, tin cans and a few pebbles masquerading
under bright paint and feathers, became Indian
rattles; sticky paper when dampened became
bracelets, belts, and anklets, fit for the most fas-
tidious redskin maiden.

“Books on Indian crafts were referred to for
authentic designs for painting. Trips to the mu-
seum to view first hand a real Indian outfit were
looked forward to. Two burlap bags were suf-
ticient to make a costume and moccasins either
for a maiden or a brave. For the warriors, two
pairs of trunks could be .cut from one bag.
Grocery stores were hounded for the choice bags.
One interested seed merchant even went so far as

 

' This Can be obtained from the National Recreation Association,
together with the bulletin, Indian Lore, for ten cents.

 

162 START YOUR PLANNING NOW FOR THE SUMMER CLOSING FESTIVAL

to obtain for one grOUp of playground children,
bags from the manufacturer without the printing,
so that they would be unhampered in their
decoration.

“After weeks of feverish preparation, the con-
test days rolled around. A schedule was worked
out, and the four judges were transported from
playground to playground. The plays were rated,
and the district winners announced. The beat of
the tom-toms pounded in the brains of the judges
after two nights and an afternoon of Indians! It
must be confessed that the dramatic specialist,

who preceded the judges to place the finishing
touches on the make-up, resembled the be-

smudged leading lady of ‘The Tewa Turkey Girl’
who cast her lot with the turkeys—but after all,
what does it matter if one pale face bites the dust,
when hundreds of little savages will look back
many moons from now to a whopping good time?”

A delightful example of the adaption of fairy

tales to playgronnd pageantry is the Ugly Duck-
. ling pageant which the Detroit, Michigan, play-
grounds presented last summer. Miss Lottie A.
McDermott, Superintendent of the Recreation
Department, has made the following description
which may be of use to other directors.

“Three thousand girls, ranging in ages from
five to sixteen years, participated in the 1934 sum-
mer playground pageant The Ugly Duckling,
which was staged at Belle Isle on the afternoon
of August 22nd.

“The pageant field stretched along the river
with a lovely grove of trees along one end and the
beautiful Scott Memorial Fountain at the other.
This fountain, considered one of the most beauti-
ful in the world, was turned on especially for the

afternoon.

“A large center stage, also two smaller end
stages, were used, and on them all the principal
characters in the story reigned for the afternOon.
Mrs. Duck, Mrs. Turkey, Mrs. Hen, Mr. Farmer,
the yOUng cockerels, who were very amusing and
dramatic, the Spirit of Nature, Spring, South
Wind, East Wind, Sunshine, Dew, the Ugly
Duckling and the little ducklings all played their
parts successfully.

“\Nhen the pageant opened and the children
marching on the field in their many colorful cos-
tumes, the lovely green of the Belle Isle grass, the
setting of tall trees in the background, the deep
blue of the summer sky and the sun sparkling on
the waters of the fountain made a lovely picture

not soon to be forgotten.

“Episode I. The Farmyard Scene showed
farmers, animals, milkmaids and strolling players
contributing to the dance numbers and the audi—
ence of 10,000 had the opportunity of witnessing
the hatching of the duck eggs which took place on
the central stage. They saw all the troubles ex—
perienced by Mrs. Duck in teaching her young
ducklings how to stand and walk.

“Episode II. The Deep Forest Scene brought
on the spiders, lightning bugs, crickets and pixies,
harassing and frightening the Ugly Duckling.
Then a beautiful nature spirit called the autumn
leaves to cover the Ugly Duckling and many "tiny
snowflakes spread a blanket of snow over the
pageant field.

“Episode III. The Garden Scene brought the
warm rain and zephyrs to the garden, the mantle
of snow disappeared and beautiful birds and but-
terflies made their appearance. Groups of chil-
dren performed three singing games, followed by
the lords and ladies who discovered that the Ugly
Duckling had been turned into a beautiful white
swan. Myraids of white swans then appeared and
honored the newcomer with a graceful swan
dance. The new swan rustled his feathers, raised
his slender neck aloft and said with exultation in

his heart, ‘I never dreamed of so much happiness

3!!

when I was the Ugly Duckling.

The Ever-POpular Circus

The circus is always a popular closing event fer
the playground boys who do not always find ac-
ceptable opportunities in the more fanciful
pageants. There were 800 performers in the play-
ground circus staged last summer in Somerville,
Massachusetts, under the auspices of the Recrea-
tion Commission. They were all there—snake
charmers, Siamese Twins, elephants, giraffes,
acrobats, clowns, the glass eater, sword swallower,
tall man, fat lady, bearded lady, dwarf, tight rope
walker and trapeze artist. The circus was pre-
ceded by a parade three—quarters of a mile long
which gave the citizens an opportunity to see the
Jailem and Bailem Troupe. Seven playgrotmds
took part.

In Athol, Massachusetts, more than 125 chil-
dren presented the Barnhouse and Bailhay Circus.
Following the parade came a, performance by the
Harmony Players, two black crows, the Siamese
Twins, Amos, Andy and Madam Queen, clowns,
acrobats and magicians. cowboys and Indians.

(Continued on page 180)

When the Neighborhood Playground

By all means arrange for a gala
event at the end of the season,
but be sure the children have a
part in making the plans for it
and feel it is their own show!

then unpack the new mushballs and bats, it

may, perhaps, seem a trifle early to concern
ourselves with the playground closing event.
Nevertheless, it is highly probable that we need
to turn the matter over in our minds now, in
order that this hnal public demonstration may .be
the outgrowth of the season's work, a glimpse of
the playground activities and spirit, rather than a
mediocre vaudeville entertainment.

First of all, we will want the youngsters to feel
that it is their show. Consequently we must not
deny them the opportunity of assisting in plan-
ning the program, as well as in carrying it out.
Quite early in the‘ season a central planning com-
mittee might be formed, which would include
representatives of the different children’s groups.
Committees of older boys and girls can assume
responsibility for publicity, seating arrangements,
ushering.

As we acquire volunteer workers, each can be
given a special responsibility for working up one
item on the program. The volunteers may be
organized into a group of assistant directors. It
is essential, however, that they recognize the value
of helping the boys and girls carry out their own
plans, and that they control any desire to dictate
their more mature conceptions.

Gradually, as we make friends among the
fathers and mothers of the playground children,
we may well develop an advisory or sponsoring
committee of parents, so that playground affairs
may be more closely related to the life of the
community.

AS WE PAINT up the old swings and see-saws,

Concerning the “Mechanics”

Responsibility for the mechanics of all large
gatherings must be laid at our own door. Cer—

Ends Its Season

By DORA M. EINERT
Department of Social Work

Carnegie Institute of Technology
Pittsburgh' Pa.

tainly the youngsters cannot be expected to exer-
cise this necessary foresight, and yet their most
delightful program may be a very disappointing
affair because of failure on our part to think in
terms of time, place, who will see the show, and
'zvill they really be able to see and hear it?

The closing event, naturally, takes place near
the end of the season, but as with all outdoor af-
fairs, alternative dates must be set because of the
uncertainty of weather conditions. The early
evening hours are probably the best, since at the
close of the entertainment a twilight lantern
parade can be held.

It is usually wise tq center the activities as far
from the gate of admission as possible, because
there is usually some noise and confusion near
the entrance. Often we can make use of natural
stage settings, such as elevated ground and trees,
or utilize steps, wading pools or junglegyms.

Of course the area for the performers must be
clearly designated. This may be done by such
crude methods as marking it' off with white lines,
or making a boundary with stones which have
been whitewashed. The arrangement of seats can
also help in indicating the performers’ area, but
seats, alas, are movable! For an evening enter-
tainment overhead strings of electric lights are
good, and a row of playground-made or kerosene
lanterns can serve as footlights. The space may
be roped off at a height of about two and a half
feet and decorated with brightly colored crepe
paper pennants attached to this rope.

We can safely assume that the greater part of
the audience will be composed of the parents of
the performers, their neighbors and children who

163

164 WHEN THE NEIGHBORHOOD PLAYGROUND ENDS ITS SEASON

attend other playgrounds. In neighborhoods
where there is a possibility that rowdy groups
may prove a disturbing factor, we can take the
precaution of using tickets of admission. These
should be free of cost, but distributed in very
limited numbers, such as two to each child. so
that the recipients will feel that it is a special
privilege to attend the affair. Some responsible
men from the parents’ committee can give very
effective service at the gate.

It is often a good idea to invite some guests of
honor, such as the mayor, the chairman of the
playground association, the superintendent of
schools, ministers in the playground neighbor-
hood, newspaper men, policemen and firemen of
the district and the storekeepers who may have
cooperated with the playground program. A craft
project, such as block printing or crayon decora-
tion can easily be correlated with this preparation
for the closing event. '

Seating and lighting arrangements must be
worked out with great care. It is a well-established
fact that if spectators have difficulty in either see—
ing. hearing, or both, they tend to become very
restless, to move seats or standing positions and
to discuss the difficulties they are eXperiencing
with those around them! Consequently even an

audience of kindly disposed people may seem un- '

cooperative under these circumstances.
Frequently it is advisable to arrange the seating
in a complete circle, or in a very generous semi-
circle around the performers’ area. The children
Can help in planning different
seating arrangements, first on
paper, then on the grounds, so
that a maximum number of visit-
ors can have favorable positions.
Perhaps we 'can plan that two
rows of children sit on the
ground on playground—made
newspaper seat pads, the next
two rows might have low seats
or benches. Outside these there
can be a number of rows of

There must be gaiety and laughter
at your neighborhood gathering.so
steal a good idea from the circus
and have mirth-provoking clowns!

higher chairs and benches behind which the addi-
tional visitors can stand.

If we need illumination at night, this can some-
times be successfully provided by having parked
cars throw their lights from different angles. In
this case it is essential that we have a rehearsal of
these improvised lighting arrangements so that we
can discover how best to avoid unwanted shadow

effects.
.W'e must remember that a child’s voice does

not carry well out of doors, so that if the group is
large we would better avoid any solo speaking
parts unless we can arrange for sound amplifiers.
The master of ceremonies can be equipped with
a megaphone.

The boy and girl ushers are important people.
we can’ help them to secure some playground-
made identifying insignia. They should be in-
structed to request people to be quiet; if this is
done politely, it will probably be effective.

The PrOgram

Now for some suggestions regarding the pro-
gram itself. First of all, .Music. Let us be sure to
enlist the services of a local band, be it police, fire,
lodge or nationality organization. We will need
the band for the beginning and close of the en—
tertainment. In addition to this we will, of course,
have the outgrowth of the children’s musical ac—
tivities—~their toy orchestras, kazoo, comb and
mouth organ bands and their favorite songs. Such
songs as “Soldier, Soldier, \Vill You Marry Me”

 

Courtesy Detroit Recreatim Department

WHEN THE NEIGHBORHOOD PLAYGROUND ENDS ITS SEASON 165

and “There \Vas An Old \Voman As I've Heard

Tell” may well be sung by the entire group and
dramatized at the same time by the necessary char—
acters. Some songs in which the audience is in—

vited to join will draw spectators and performers

more closely together. For instance, it is quite fit--
ting to open the program with the singing of the

national anthem, also to sing well—known old folk 0

songs or some of the better popular songs. Rounds
such as "Row, Row, Row Your Boat,” “Little Tom
Tinker" or “Are You Sleeping, Brother John,”
will interest the audience, especially if they have

actions.

Second: Laughter. Why not steal a good idea
from the circus and have clowns? If clown suits
are not available overalls make satisfactory cos-
tumes, with the addition of big neck frills of
pleated crepe or unprinted newspaper. Of course,
clown make—up will add greatly to such a costume.
These clowns can work up their many short acts
which should be interspersed throughout the pro-
gram so as to keep up the level of gaiety. The
clowns can give a tumbling act which can be either
skillful or foolish or both. They can have a leap-
frog relay race or a “skin the snake” contest be-
tween two teams. A balloon relay will provide
much amusement. In this game the first clown on
each team blows up his balloon until it bursts,
which is a signal for the second player to begin to
inflate his balloon. It is advisable to have a pair
of sun goggles {or each team, and the rule that a
player may not begin to blow up the balloon until
he has adjusted his goggles. This adds to the fun
and provides protection for the eyes. Other clown
acts may be a crazy tug-of—war or some very child-
ish game such as “Did You Ever See a Lassie ?”

Third: S kill and Sportsmanship. W'hy not ask
the different groups of children to select their
favorite games and then present these as their
contribution to the playground closing event pro-
gram? \Ve should, however, guide this choice in
terms of which games will have most interest for
the spectators. Singing games, whether simple or
complex, are very suitable; running games in a
definite formation, such as two-deep, three-deep,
broncho tag, are easily seen and understood. Jump
the shot is excellent, also the beetle goes ’round.
Line games are not as effective as circle games,
with the exception of last couple out and relay
races. The familiar potato race is always fun, so
also are dress-up relays such as a rainy day race,
where players on each team must put on galoshes,

huge gloves, sweater or slicker and then open an
umbrella in plain sight of the audience before

running to the goal.

The girls and boys can demonstrate poor and
good form in such games as mushball, volley ball,
horseshoes and deck tennis with rope rings. Of
course poor form must be very much exaggerated
in order to make the comparison with the good
form really funny. A very brief mushball game
of boys dressed as girls will amuse the audience,
so also will a volley ball game played first in the
orthodox manner and then “slow—motion,” using
a balloon and making extremely slow movements.

Folk dances will be delightful additions to the
program, whether in costume or not. A chorus of
fifty or a hundred children’s voices will provide a
most attractive musical accompaniment.

Fourth: Mass E Jgj‘ects. Everyone enjoys a grand
march in which large groups participate. We
know, too, that very simple snake marching is
usually just as effective as elaborate marching
figures. Sometimes an entrance ma'rch will serve
to introduce all the youngsters and permit them
to reach their assigned places in an orderly man-
ner. The wind—up of the program may well be a
grand march. A lantern parade through the twi—
light will leave a striking picture with the audi-
ence. Another effective close is some organized
cheering for special persons and for the spectators.

Fifth: The Handcraft Exhibit. This year we
might help the children to work out original ways
of dramatizing their handcraft exhibit rather than
follow the usual custom of displaying individual
pieces of work on carefully guarded tables. The
neatly printed tag giving name and age cannot
show the feeling of the young creator for his
work, which, after all, is really far more interest-
ing than the size of the stitches! If the juniors
have made windmills, these can be shown to the
public through a lively march of the children with
their toys. A pantomime of a jewelry booth at a
fair will serve to show off necklaces and metal
work. A whole series of booths or counters,
tended by children in appropriate costumes, can
serve to display all the boat’s, airplanes, dolls,
stuffed toys, pocketbooks, etc., that have been
made. These booths might line the path from the
entrance gate to the spectators’ seats. .

Finally: Acknowledgments. \Ve must make
sure that gracious acknowledgments are made to

(Continued on page 181)

A Civic—Minded Garden Club

Cleveland's Garden Club of a hundred members

which serves over 25,000 people in one year.

HEN THE GARDEN CLUB of Cleveland was
w organized, its eXpress purpose was to

stimulate the knowledge and love of gar-
dening among amateurs. Anything that came
under this heading was a worthwhile activity. So
in February, 1930, the club voted to establish a
Garden Center for the free dissemination of gar-
den information.

One of the first problems was that of finances.
A French Street Fair was held in June to raise
the necessary funds. So successful did this fair
prove to be that it was possible to rent for a very
nominal fee from the city a two-story brick build-
ing beside the lake in Wade Park, formerly used
to house rowboats. Extensive alterations were
' made and the following December it was opened
to the public.

Located in the Fine Arts Garden (sponsored
the previous year by the Garden Club) it is in
the cultural center of Cleveland adjacent to the
Art Museum, \Vestern Reserve University, the
Art School and Severance Music Hall. On the
first floor is a long exhibition room, 15 by 50
feet, with French doors looking out upon the
lake. Glass shelves have been fitted over these
doors to permit of displays of growing plants. At
each end portable shelves and bulletin boards
hold various exhibits according to the season of
the year. A small office, a flower room with run-
ning water, and a ftlrnace. storage and cloak room
also open off this exhibition room. Upstairs is
the library, where a real horticultural library is
being assembled. Six hundred volumes are al—
ready on hand, touching upon landscaping, hor-
ticulture, Horiculture and ornithology. Some of
these were obtained from the Garden Club’s
library, and others were
donated by members. It is
hoped to make this an exten-
sive horticultural library such
as is found in New York,
Philadelphia, and Boston. A
verticle file has been started

166

of clippings on subjects not in book form, and a
large collection of seed catalogues and garden
magazines is available.

Into the doors of the Garden Center How a con-
stant stream of people interested in improving
their own environment—home owners, garden
club members, apartment dwellers, professional
gardeners, landscape architects, commercial flor-
ists, seedsmen, art school students, Boy and Girl
Scouts. with- their leaders, Girl Reserves, teach-
ers and classes of elementary school children—a
veritable cross-section of humanity. Out they
come with practical garden information and a re-
newed vision of what can be accomplished by
diligent effort.

The Director of the Center, Miss Carroll C.
Griminger, is a practical-minded person with an
extensive training in horticulture and several
years’ experience with one of the large eastern
seed houses. Two graduate botany students from
Western Reserve University give part time as-
sistance to the Center, for which they receive a
fellowship tuition.

Two committees from the Garden Club of
Cleveland determine policies, pass on matters of
expenditure, and plan exhibits and programs with
the help of an advisory committee chosen from
various city institutions.

Each month special exhibits and programs are
planned and worked out in cooperation with the
various garden clubs of Cleveland. One month
will feature garden insects and plant diseases to-
gether with the accepted reinedies. Another
month will be devoted to rock gardens with an
actual garden and pool worked out in one end of
the room. Other programs have dealt with such

subjects as design of small
gardens, roadside improve-

From the Christian Science M oni- ment‘ conservation of mm
tor comes this interesting story of
the accomplishments of a Garden
Club which is making available au-
thentic information on all kinds of
garden problems.

Howers, early seed sowing,
window boxes, roses. dahlias,
gladiolus, Chrysanthemums,

(Continued on page 181)

The Farm as a Camp Background

0 TELL the story of Commune Farm we must

go back to January, 1934, when the idea of a

cooperative farm camp for children was being
crystallized. At that time two people active in
progressive education and for many years dis—
satisfied with present day camp programs set
up plans for a camp built on the background
of farm life. The original plans called for the
organization of two counselors, one agricul-
turist and thirteen to fifteen boys and girls be-
tween the ages of ten and seventeen, into a
corporation, each with an investment of $100,
to share alike in the profits or losses of the
cooperative farm. It called for group partici-
pation in work and play during the months of
July and August pre-season week-end tours for
the purpose of sowing a crop and making ini-
tial preparations for a comfortable home, as
well as post-season trips for harvesting. \Nhat-
ever crops were to be harvested would be sold
in the open market and to parents of the chil-
dren at the farm. \Vith fifteen children and
three counselors as the maximum number in
the group, Commune Farm could come under
the category of a large farmer’s family sub-
sisting on the products of the soil and also
would be adequate for a special play activity
program suited to its needs.

Our aims ever in mind, we proceeded to in—
terest those’iwhom we felt might provide us
with material assistance and practical guidance
from their past experiences. These interviews
brought us in touch with a well seasoned agri—
culturist possessing a rich academic back—
ground, as well as a great love for nature’s
every mood and manifestation. Inasmuch as
'the “farmer,” as the children affection-
ately called our agriculturist, was un—
employed at the time, he gave all his
time and efforts to the planning of a
productive farm. Because of his special
ability and the possession of a car, he
was even more welcome to join the

By FRANK and THERESA KAPLAN

corporation, though unable to make a financial
investment.

One thing led to another, and soon we were
in the ofhce of the real estate agent who proved
more kindly and genuinely interested in our
idea than we had dared hope. Our glowing
picture of the proposed venture fascinated him
and our pleas touched him, for he suggested.
that we visit a sixteen acre farm nestled most
advantageously between two dairy farms two
and a half miles outside of Pawling, New York.
A bumpy ride on a dirt road took us to what
we felt must be our summer setting. The house
invited occupation for it was sturdy and spa-
cious, though dirty, unpainted and cold. The
foundation was very strong, and new casement
windows had been set in throughout the house.
\Ve later discovered that an unfortunate inci—
dent had curtailed complete renovation of the
aged house, which had an interesting history.
We found we had much to be proud of in this
dwelling with its fine old fireplaces, firm wood-
en pegged beams, many windows, and two airy‘
porches.

The condition of the house and grounds was
deplorable. Some filthy old clothes bespoke of
a vagrant occupant, and we were soon to dis-
cover that energy would have to be expended
in cleaning, scrubbing, painting and decorating
the place. It boasted no plumbing, electricity,
gas or running water, but we found the water
from a cool mountain spring a few feet away
from the house very refreshing. To safeguard
the health of our residents, we had the water
tested by a bacteriologist from New York.
After a cursory survey of the grounds, our

Two camp directors provide a background for a
summer vacation designed to "embody deiinil e,
cooperative responsibilities, new and vital ex-

periences, and realistic. creative actIvItIes."

167

168 THE FARIW AS A CAMP BACKGROUND

agriculturist made a favorable report, and we
left singing odes of thankfulness to Lady Luck.

Immediately negotiations were begun for the
use of the land, a ten acre artificial lake on the
property, and the vacant house. After confer-
ring for several weeks we arranged for the
rental of the property at $50 and were given
permission to'use the lake and the rowboat.

And Then the Work—and-Fun Began!

\Vith but $250 as the initial investment on
the part of the two counselors, work was
started on repairing the house and soiving the
crops. Prospective members of the corpora-
tion, children above ten, were taken on week—
end trips with us to assist in these initial prep-
arations.

Soon after the snow was off the ground we
all pitched in to remove the debris which was
left on the grounds and in the house during a
five year period of disuse. Leaves and over-
grown brush were quickly gath e r e d and
burned. The front of the house, a veritable
graveyard for farmers’ unwanted machinery
and useless cars, was soon cleared by means of
a small truck and our united efforts to help
tow them out of sight. The outhouse, a sore
spot to everyone, was physically picked up and
moved farther away from the house by chil-
dren and counselors, given a coat of whitewash
on the inside and painted green on the outside
to harmonize with the surrounding trees. The
renovated outside toilet, spread weekly with
lye, served adequately throughout the summer.
Fences erected and paths cleared about the
place allowed,for un-

hampered movement on

ing, and in-general making the house livable.
Ugly holes in walls and ceilings were filled in
with plaster of Paris and then whitewashed to
save the cost of paint. Woodwork and win—
dow sills were painted a bright green to offset
the whitewash. The basement was in the throes
of late spring cleaning, one group having the
unpleasant task of cleaning out an erstwhile
chicken coop in the storeroom. Later we used
this chamber to advantage in preserving our
foodstuffs. One counselor, aided by two boys,
fixed up a well equipped shop, cleaned away the
dirt in the kitchen and converted a large outer
porch into a dining room. Two long tables
were made out of old wood doors, and benches
and small tables were constructed for use in
the library on the floor above. Later the porch
was screened with green mosquito netting, and
we had an ideal eating place with a beautiful
natural setting ever before us. From odd and
end pieces of wood found about the barn, pan-
try shelves were put up in the kitchen and
book shelves were set up to hold a complete
agricultural library, as well as books contribu—
ted by friends and some of our children. A
generous relative donated an excellent stove,
kitchen table, living room furniture and a bar—
rel of dishes. From a camp we secured kero—
sene stoves for use in an emergency. In addi-
tion, interested friends lent us curtains, pic-
tures, vases, beds, floor coverings and cooking
utensils. Craft work in the form of masks,
candle holders and wood work, made. by some
of our children at school and at their clubs, had
both decorative and practical value. Every—

thing found about the

place was used to ad—

the farm. One youngster
put up our mail box,
above which a n o t h e :-
proudly hung his “Com—
mune Farm” sign. It
was equivalent to “Wel-
come” and we felt well
under way towards par-
ticipating in an interest-
ing and unusual camping
experience.

With the grounds
somewhat cleared off, we
spent the following
week-ends indoors scrub—~
bing, whitewashing, paint-

"No period of the year is more opportune
for the physical. character and intellectual
growth of the child than the summer vaca-
tion. Free from the daily routine of the
school program he lets loose with his youth-
ful and pent-up energy. This freedom calls
for a direction for more of the nature ex-
periencing. inquiring and experimenting than
a subiugation to skills and techniques. An en-
vironment in which a child takes over his own
living and learning processes should be sub—
stituted for one in which all social and aca-
demic growth comes from direct dictative
sources—the home and the school. The lack
of restrictions placed upon the child's time
allows for adventures which are real and con-
tinuous. rather than those which are obtained
merely from books and interrupted time and
again by reading. writing and arithmetic."

vantage. Empty tool
boxes well covered with
cretonne and then pad-
ded with felt served as
seats about the fireplace
in the library. On the
whole, with a minimum
of expense, a most at-
tractive home was estab-
lished. And a crackling
fire on cool nights made
it a veritable haven of
peace and comfort after
a day full of energizing
activities.

Certain ingenious de-

THE FARM AS A CAMP BACKGROUND 169

An old farm wagon may
prove to be quite as
satisfactory for coun-
try use as "orthodox"
gymnasium equipment.

vices made the
problem of person—
al cleanliness a sim-
ple matter. We
b u i l t an outdoor
shower house out of
boards that had
formerly closed in
the porches. Un-
used pillars served
as th e foundation
and three sides
were boarded up. A
siphon h o s e was
purchased tO.WhiCll
we attached show—
er equipment. A large pail contained our water
supply, which we enjoyed cold or heated when
so inclined. By degrees we were ironing out
most inconveniences.

Another eventful purchase was a water pump
which 'children and counselors set up, for the
job of toting water to and from the house was
a very tiring one. After the necessary pipes
arrived, we attached the hand pump to a tree
five steps away from the kitchen door and ran
the pipe from the well to the tree. And so
another time and effort saving device was in-
stalled in Commune Farm. From the outset
we bought a first aid kit but had no need for
any medical supplies other than iodine. \Vith
dangers from work and dirt more prevalent
here than in any other possible situation, it
seems almost miraculous that our health in
toto of the group should prove so satisfactory.

And Next the Planting

The house attractively set and personal
cleanliness insured, we commenced planting
during weekends in June. Mindful of the fact
that late planting would bring a better price
on the market and handicapped because coun-
selors and children had to remain at school
during week days, we could not plant until this
late date. Two acres were plowed and manured,

Copyright, Prone-Photo, Br:an

 

with manure given to us by an adjacent farm-
er. Our land was surveyed by the children,
soil tested, diagrams of planting made, daily
records kept, and on the whole scientific gar-
dening was practiced. Considerable plots here
and there were used for special plantings, such
as cucumber, onion and turnip gardens and
flower patches. A small experimental plot was
roped off in front of the house for nurturing
seedlings before transplanting them into larger
gardens. Fifteen dollars worth of seeds was
purchased and planted on a stagger system, a‘
little each week, to insure successive harvests
to meet the demands of the kitchen and to
obtain high prices on the market. Some 250
tomato plants, 100 cabbage plants, 100 cauli—
flower, and 100 pepper and eggplants were
bought for approximately one cent apiece and
carefully transplanted. The use of a wheel hoe,
jiffy wheel plow and wheel seeder enabled us to
plant with precision and ease.

Most encouraging indeed were the benefits
derived from our farming in cutting down 'ex-
penditures for food and in affording our chil-
dren dailv contacts with true experiences on
the soil. From the outset, troubled by roving
deer and woodchucks, we lost almost all cab-
bage and cauliflower plants. Cucumber, bean,
eggplant, pepper and pumpkin seedlings were

170 THE FARM AS A CAMP BACKGROUND

constantly attacked by woodchucks and other
pests, thus stunting and affecting their yield.
Rewired fences served to prevent straying cat-
tle from devastating our crops. Extensive work
had to be done with the seedlings—thinning,
hoeing, cultivating and hilling. Poles had to
be chopped for the lima beans. Twigs had to
be secured for the telephone peas. Plants had
to be sprayed regularly to prevent damage to
the fruit. One or two storms broke many
'plants, but our crops were successful never—
theless. Never more conscious of the atmo-
sphere, our children were constantly on the
lookout for changes in the weather. Likewise,
considerable interest was shown in the devel-
opment of the flower int'o fruit and seed.

Harvesting the Crops

When at the end of the summer crops were
finally harvested, its distribution and sale
proved not so difficult as we had anticipated.
A good deal was sold on open market to local
grocery and v e g e t a b l e stores and nearby
camps. Other products were sold to friends,
parents and neighbors who were glad to re-
ceive fresh vegetables at the'market price. Of
all the crops planted the best yields came from
the sowing of tomatoes, beans and beets. Some
of the crops were bartered for varie'd groceries
at the local town chain store. It was only until
the last four weeks that the crops played an all
important part in our diet. The last month’s
diet consisted of our own vegetables, prepared
(and cooked in almost fifty-seven different ways.
The use of vegetables resulted in a consider-
able saving on other food items. Some of the
crops were preserved: other early fruits were
made into wine and desserts.

We Become Our Own Cooks

Our cooking problems, troublesome at first,
proved less burdensome as the summer went
on. At the beginning we hired a cook but she
left because the need to carry water to and
fro', the clumsiness of the coal stove, and lack
of gas proved too difficult for her. Faced with
these problems, as well as with a sudden drop
in registration, we decided to do all the cook-
ing ourselves. One counselor took over the
kitchen and the purchasing of supplies, and
with the aid of the children was able to pre—
pare carefully balanced and well cooked meals.
The group assisted routiner in serving meals,
clearing away and washing dishes, as well as

with the cooking and baking. Pamphlets ob-
tained from Cornell and the U. S. Department
of Agriculture taught us how to serve each
new vegetable as it became abundant. At first
we churned our own butter and did a good
deal of preserving, but towards the end of the
summer we found it inadvisable because of the
pressure of various work activities and the in-
creased price of milk. Had we thought of bar—
tering earlier, we might have been able to
exchange our vegetables for milk.

Our limited funds made the purchase of food
staples in wholesale quantities well nigh im-
possible, and buying in small lots greatly in-
creased our total expenditure for groceries.
Yet to our surprise we discovered at the end
of the summer that the constant supply of veg-
etables gleaned from our own fields cut down
our food bill to approximately $16.95 per per-
son for the nine week season, or about $2.00
per' person a week. Nor could one call our
meals cut to the bone in any sense. Every meal
was well planned and balanced so as to include
a full quota ’of nutritious foods. The following
table is a sample of the day’s diet:

Breakfast

Fruit (orange, prunes, baked apple, etc.)

Dry cereal (corn flakes, puffed rice, Wheaties, etc.)
Eggs (various styles or egg substitutes—French toast,
pancakes, etc.)

Bread—butter
Milk (plain or chocolate)

Dinner

Entree (varied soups, salads)

Main dish (some form of meat and three vegetables or
complete vegetable plate, etc.)
Bread—butter
Dessert (fresh or canned fruits. puddings, etc.)
Milk—cake—cookies

Supper

Main dish (some form of fish with cold vegetables or
noodles with cheese or spaghetti, etc.)
Bread—butter
Dessert (chocolate pudding, rice or tapioca pudding,

jello. etc.)
~Milk

Our Members

From the outset the problem of membership
was our greatest worry. Parents, unaccus-
tomed to this sort of camp, sent their children
with great hesitation because of the newness
of the adventure and the crudeness of living
conditions on the farm. Registration was a
slow and tedious process. \Vith the realization
that even progressive parents tread lightly on
untried paths, we were forced to sacrifice much
in the way of rates, selection of age groups
and simple camp preparations. After many

THE FARM AS A CAMP BACKGROUND 171

interviews and personal calls we were able to
muster together a group which throughout the
summer numbered ten.

Though small in number for a camp, there
is much to' learn from the Commune Farm’s
experience. Not all children came to us with
the proper frame of mind. Some came avow-
ing that they hated farming. One youngster,
accustomed to many high priced camps and
military academies, came on condition if he
didn’t like the place he would be at liberty to
leave. Still others came bemoaning the fact
that there were no children of their own age
with whom to work and play. Facing this
frame of group mind, we set about making life
bearable.

\Vith our initial capital on July lst down to
the last penny, we ourselves were put in the
position of making the project pay for itself
or giving it up. From the start we pointed out
to the children that as members of the corpora-
tion we were bound together to make this a
successful and profitable undertaking. The
children joined wholeheartedly, partaking in
gardening, cooking, cleaning their individual
rooms, washing their clothds and seeking out
the most economical solutions to problems that
might arise. Some found joy in spreading
manure, others in destroying devastating pests.
On clear nights Commune Farm slept out-of-
doors to keep destructive woodchucks from
the seedlings. Part of the afternoon was spent
looking for berries that could be used for des-
serts and picking cherries for wine from our
own trees. “\Vhy use coal for the stove?” one
child exclaimed. “I’ll chop some old wood
around the barn.” When it came to some dirty
work which we felt might incur dangers if some
of the children were to participate, we would
hear arguments which would end with, “Aw
shucks, why can’t we do this—isn’t this a com-
mune farm?” One child wrote home saying
she was having a grand time cooking and bak-
ing (her mother insisted on nothing less than
perfection in her own kitchen at home). An-
other wrote asking that his parents extend his
vacation so that he could find and kill the
woodchuck which was eating up all the cu—
cumber leaves. One older girl, who hesitated
to come but finally came for one week to see
if it was exciting, came back to spend the last
two weeks with us. Before half the season
was over, the children were with us whole-

heartedly and assisted with an earnest and wil-
ful cooperation.

Play Not Neglected

One parent asked us whether her child did
nothing but work, cook and garden all day.
“Don’t they play?” True, most children found
much play working in the garden and a good
deal of recreation arose out of these work
activities. Hunting for woodchucks led to tests
in markmanship; chopping wood led to fire-
place singing and games; working on tree
pruning brought many to our agricultural li-
brary for further reading; picking berries, to
exploring; spraying plants, to collecting bugs
and butterflies; a dead chuck, to a study of the
internals of an animal. Whenever the after-
noons were too warm for work on the fields
we set out to go swimming, boating and fish-
ing. Arts and crafts played an ever important
part in our set-up. An eagerness to decorate
our rooms resulted in our dabbling with clay,
papier-mache and plaster of Paris masks. In
the numerous repairs that had to be done about
the house there was no end of wood work of
a creative and inventive nature. Over the din-
ner table a discussion on the churning of butter
brought forth a serious study on the part of
the children of the chemical formulas of foods.
Trips to other farms and country fairs were
always welcome. In the evening we all sat
around the fire, singing, reading, telling stor-
ies, dancing or listening to the radio. Our
program was never rigidly set up or standard—
ized. Activities arose out of need and desire
and were met with understanding. Commune
Farm to children, counselors and parents was
not a ready—made play venture but a real life
experience, chock full of problems and live
adventure.

Advantages of the Farm Project

Although Commune Farm should not be
taken as finality in the private camp field
(much remained undone because of limited ex-
perience, membership and funds), its possibili-
ties and its obvious advantages should act as
an encouragement to camp directors to under-
take this type of cooperative enterprise. The
farm as a camp offers an unrestricted field for
healthful physical activities, situations which
are suitable for active group participation, a
program which is of tremendous and lasting
interest and an emotional satisfaction which

172 THE FARM AS A CAMP BACKGROUND

leads to a greater understanding of the country,
as well as a fuller and richer scholastic life. A
rounded out experience with planting, harvest-
ting, poultry raising, irrigation, marketing, etc.,
presents more than any artificial camp organi-
zation. The planning and management of a
cooperative garden venture, the repairs and
adjustments on farm property and equipment,
the budgeting of farm income and expenditure,
the sale of crops—all these bring about the
spontaneous cooperation of the children, The
inconveniences of the farm household, the bio-
logic experimentation scientific farming re—
quires, the flower garden —— these and many
others call for initiative and imagination on
the part of the boys and girls.

From a health standpoint no better setting
than the farm can be secured. The work on
the grounds allows for a minimum of indoor
activities and a maximum of sunlight and fresh
air. ,The activities are such that a voluntary
physical effort, which is so essential to the
growing child, is employed. Work becomes
play on the farm. The physical exhaustion that
comes with the end of a day’s work brings on
a slumber which is highly beneficial. The sat-
isfaction that comes from a garden venture en-
courages an appetite which is almost alarming!
Experience has shown that the physical growth
of the child on a farm is most amazing.

Since no definite economic requirements are -

set as a goal, a program including swimming,
fishing, singing, .arts and crafts and organized
games can easily be interspersed during or
after the day’s work. The study of breeding
and plant life, the farm shop and other tasks
offer numerous opportunities for individual
activities. The work on the farm is not so
defined that the group cannot on sudden notice
take a farmer’s holiday and go off on the coun—
tryside for a two or three day tour. Organized
recreation, the basis of most camps, becomes
on the farm camp only one of the many tools
that the counselor has for the rounding out of
an interesting summer. Yet there are sufficient
opportunities for free play on the farm in the
execution of daily duties. A trip to town to
purchase feed for livestock, raking and loading
hay, pasturing the cows, picking fruits from
the orchard for preserving, cleaning the barn,
stocking the granary—all these entail activity
which takes the place of organized recreation
in the camp set-up and daily routine programs.

Sufficient situations arise from natural causes
and work towards that type of social behavior
which we seek to inculcate in our children.
Even singing around the fireside in the farm-
house proves to be more gratifying than the
camp fire and its unduly prearranged novelties.
\Vhatever play activities arise on the farm arise
spontaneously and are closely correlated to the
work that is to be done.

And, finally, one cannot estimate the ad-
vantages of the farm camp to the child’s aca-
demic life. The experience of the summer on
a farm becomes a “well of information” from
which the child can draw material for his
poetry, painting, clay work and other creative
arts and academic studies. A well rounded
out farm experience brings with it an emo-
tional satisfaction which leads to a great love
for the country. It reveals the difficulties the
farmer must constantly face in his struggles
for existence. Bringing a child out of his own
limited environment and making him aware of
his own problems as compared with those of
other fellow beings, in the long run, makes
him a more tolerant and sympathetic individ-
ual. Placing him in a background where he
becomes an absolute factor in the workings of
a small farm community makes him aware of
his own capabilities, and lays the foundation
for a more poised individual.

For camps run by institutions, such as
neighborhood houses, social work agencies and
community groups, the farm camp may offer
a practical solution to many difficulties. These
camps, often faced with tremendous food bills
and forced to take different groups of children
every two weeks, constantly resort-to contri—
butions from outside sources for continuance.
\Vith quantities of vegetables at their call, they
can not only reduce their food budgets but also
find an outlet for excess crops, either in bar-
tering for necessary groceries or in a sale to
their own city neighbors and parents who
would welcome fresh vegetables at reasonable
rates. This double purpose of carrying on a
farm project might even make a rent free
camp self—supporting.

There is no doubt that the need of inter-
changing canip groups every two weeks is not
only disastrous to such a farm camp but to any
sort of camp with a complete program. The

‘ farm camp, however, offers somewhat of a

(Continued on page 182)

WORLD AT PLAY

 

East Orange, New
Jersey, has a munici-
pal walking club or-
ganized in May,
. 1934, by the Board of Recreation Commission-
ers. Since its organization it has conducted a
regular schedule of walks, averaging two a
mOnth. A special feature was the conducting
of midweek evenings known as “about town
hikes,” and a number of half or full day Sun-
day trips. Except for the expense for postage
and paper, only a part of which is now covered
by the dues of 25 cents, the club is self—sup—
porting. The program is planned by an execu—
tive committee, and each week is in charge of
a leader who is a member of the club and a
volunteer.

A New Municipal
Walking Club

 

 

On February 28,
1935, the Public Rec-
reation Commission
of Cincinnati, Ohio,
passed its fifth milestone on the road to the
fulfillment of its well defined policy of estab-
lishing a district athletic field adjoining each
high school in the city. In less than three
years the City of Cincinnati has moved in on
five of the city’s six public high schools. “This
policy of the Commission,” states Tam Deer-
ing, Supervisor of Recreation, in his February
report to the Commission, “is also the policy
of the Board of Education. The aim is to pool
the recreational resources of the municipal
government and the schools. This joint effort
is required to secure more play space at schools
———a necessity because of the fact that education
without play is impossible. It is necessary in
order that the schools may train our people
for the use of leisure and to bring about the
extended use of school facilities and municipal
facilities for recreational purposes.” On Febru-
ary 10th the Commission dedicated the twelve
acre “C. 8.: O.” Play Field and a $14,000 gym—
nasium building, thereby marking the comple-
tion of a million dollar play and recreational
facility created through “circuses and gifts,”
unemployed labor, and vision.

Cincinnati Adds to
Play Space

 

N inety-three thou-
sand, two hundred
and s e v e n t y-four
children in the Los
Angeles, California, public schools have been'
taught a repertoire of 200 selections in the nine
'years during which harmonica bands in the
schools have been organized. From 178 schools
in which 15,795 players are enrolled, 2,500 ad-
vanced harmonica players were selected to ’

appear in a concert at the Hollywood Bowl
March 25th.

Harmonica Playing in
Los Angeles

The supervisor of
activities for unem-
ployed youth in New
Britain, Connecticut,
reports that classes in cooking are very popular
among the young men. Four classes have been
organized, and the number of applications be-
ing received will in all probability make an-
other class necessary. At first the purpose was
to teach camp cookery, but then came a de-
mand for short order work as done in restau-
rants, and now the serious study of bakery and

the higher branches of the art is attracting
attention.

Cooking Classes for
Young Men

One of the activi-
ties of the Chicago,
Illinois, Recreation

' Commission is the
inauguration -of the police institute through
which lectures are being given at 36 police
stations to 4,000 uniformed policemen. It is
hoped that much good will result from this
activity, designed as Mayor Kelly points out,
“to help Chicago police officers in guiding boys
and girls in the proper paths of recreation.”
Miss Jane Addams of Hull House, expressed
her interest in the project, suggesting that -if pro-
motion and awards could be given the police-
men whose districts are most orderly and con-
tribute the fewest boys to-the courts, it would
afford a tremendous start.

Chicago Has New Type
of Police Institute

WORLD AT PLA Y

attention, etaéfswotlzet!

Talens Crafts Instruction Book
and Catalog of Materials

0 Offers everything for the craftsworker
and gives complete information concern-
ing materials and instructions for their use.

Featuring . . .

Leatherwork Beadwork
Metalwork Basketry
Pottery Book Binding

Block Printing Loom Weaving
O This 32-page booklet will be sent free
to institutions and heads of schools and
camps. Price to individuals fifteen cents.

Talens School Products Inc.
Chicago New York

San Francisco

Training Courses for Camp Counselors ——
The Children’s \Nelfare Federation, 386 Fourth
Avenue, New York City, announces its eighth
training course for camp counselors to be held
at Camp Northover, Bound Brook, New Jer-
sey, June 13th to 16th. Instruction and prac-
tice will be provided in specialized helds such
as nature study, music, dramatics, athletics
and games, crafts and hobbies. In addition,
there will be round table discussions on social
problems for children, camp government, health
and hrst aid, waterfront safety, the spiritual
values of camp life, and similar topics. There
will be a special conference for directors on
Sunday noon. _

The Educational Alliance and Young Men’s
Hebrew Association will conduct at Surprise
Lake Camp, Cold Spring, New York, a train-
ing course for camp counselors. The course,
which will extend from June 30th until Labor
Day, will cover information on_camp adminis—
tration, personal qualifications, abilities and
skills, the evaluation of results of camping, pro—
jects and programs, and participation in all
phases of camp programs. Information may be
secured from Mr. Max Oppenheimer, Adminis-

trator, Surprise Lake Camp, Cold Spring, New
York.

Playgrounds Wanted—Three hundred and
thirty—nine mothers in tenement districts re-
cently expressed their desires with reference
to a number of features in housing develop-
ment such as community laundries in the base-
ment, laundries in the kitchens. Two hundred
and twenty individuals reported that they
wanted a playground for their small children
and 213 wanted a playground for older chil-
dren. Few other features received as many
votes. .

A Volley Ball Demonstration — The iirst
large volley ball demonstration ever held in
Cincinnati, Ohio, for girls and women was
staged by the Amateur Athletic Union on
Monday, February 18th. The program con-
sisted of two demonstration volley ball games
played under different rules, followed by a gen-
eral demonstration covering coaching methods
and rules. The first game was played accord-

,ing to the official rules for women established

by the W'omen’s Athletic Section of the
A.P.E.A. The second game was played accord-
ing to the rules of the United States Volley
Ball Association, and the teams were made up
of older women. Following the games there
was a general discussion of various phases of
volley 'ball led by Miss Helen Coops of the
University of Cincinnati and A.A.U. Chairman
of the Committee on Women’s Sports.

As an outcome of this meeting two events
have been planned, a game of mixed volley
ball, three men and three women on one side,
to be played for demonstration purposes, and
a volley ball night, a meet in which teams from
all over the city will come together and play.

This will be undelL the supervision of the
\Vomen’s Committee of the A.A.U.

A Recreation Conference in Massachusetts
-—On March 15th, 16th and 17th, outdoor en—
thusiasts gathered at Amherst, Massachusetts,
for the second annual recreation conference
held under the auspices of Massachusetts State
College. One of the highlights of the sessions
included an explanation of the recent develop-
ment of game management problems, and it
was shown how the golfer, the winter sports-
man, the hiker, the camper, can all make a

C. J. ATKINSON 175

LOUDEN RIGID WHIBI.

C. J. Atkinson

On April 4, 1935, after a brief illness, C.  At—
kinson, former secretary of the Boys’ Clubs of
America, Inc., passed away at his home in High-
land Mills, New York. For many years Mr. At~
kinson cooperated closely with the work of the
National Recreation Association. He gave him-
self without stint to the work for boys to which
he had early dedicated all his powers.

 

 

definite contribution to game management.
Golfers and golf maintenance officials were
told that organized gambling in sports is the
greatest danger which golf faces today. Speak—
ers recommended immediate organization to
combat these evils, which threaten to hinder
seriously further development of the game in
this country. Other subjects discussed included
forestry, winter sports, archery, camping, hik-
ing and community recreation.

Puppetry Popular — In February, the Cina
cinnati, Ohio, Public Recreation Commission
held a week’s institute devoted exclusively to
puppetry. Sixty-two people were enrolled in
the class and nearly as many again sought ad—
mission. Great enthusiasm was displayed. Dur-
ing the week each student modeled a puppet
head, painted it, assembled the body, dressed
the marionette and attached the required
string. At the end of the fifth day the students
were given instruction in the proper operation
of their puppets. The sixth day was devoted
to the construction of a marionette theater for
the Recreation Commission. The prices of the
finished marionettes ranged from 15 cents to
95 cents, depending upon the style of con-
struction.

To continue the interest aroused, the Recre—
ation Commission plans to employ a special
worker to take charge of the group and deveIOp
a “Littlest Theater.” \Vith the group which
will be developed the plays will be taken to
different schools and institutions to produce
children’s plays.

Character Training for Youth
(Continued from. page 142)

of school organization and instruction involves a
degree of suppression that stimulates unguided
and unruly activity as compensation beyond the

 

THIS newest Louden Rigid Whirl is really a combination
device. In addition to a Whirl Around it gives many
"Junglegym'I features. Its high carbon structural steel tubing
framework is used as turning bars and a climbing structure.
Designed and built for utmost safety . for years of
strenuous service.

Get full particulars concerning this newest and most popular

of all playground devices. Write
LOUDEN

today for the new free Louden
book describing a complete, bet-
ter line of playground, beach,
pool and gym equipment . . .
many items of exclusive Louden
design. No obligation.

J.E. PORTER CORPORATION

120 BROADWAY ' OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT

 

 

 

school walls. It does not agouse tastes and desires
that would be followed up in constructive ways
outside the school. It leaves boys and girls, espe-
cially those more active by nature, an easy prey to
mere excitement.

In short, as far as schools are concerned, the
present interest in more effective character edu-
cation may have two different results. If it is
satisfied by merely adding on a special course for
direct instruction in good behavior, I do not think
it can accomplish much. If it leads public atten—
tion to the‘ changes that are needed in the schools
in order that they may do more to develop intel-
ligent and sturdy character in the young, it may
well be the beginning of a most important move-
ment.

It seems to me especially important that organi-
zations of business and professional men should
exercise an influence along the lines mentioned.
They have already done a great deal in promoting
the growth of the playground movement. They
can determine to a great extent the treatment of
delinquents, with respect to both prevention and

176 ON THE SUMMER PLAYGROUNDS OF {934

  

That Summer Playground
Program!

6*!)

 
      

  

0 Have you secured your copy
of “Planning Summer Playground
Programs”?

Whether you are a beginner in
playground leadership or a more
experienced worker you will find
this pamphlet valuable, so com-
prehensive is it in its discussion of
the activities comprising the play-
ground program and the principles
involved in planning.

Sample daily, weekly and sum-
mer schedules help make this an
unusually practical and useful
publication.

Price $.25

 
       
   
      
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 

National Recreation Association

315 Fourth Avenue
New York City

  

cure. They are in a better position than any other
one class to realize what slums and bad housing
do to foster juvenile criminality. They can exer-
cise a powerful influence upon the kind of movies
that are shown in the community. Instead of
throwing their powerful influence for so-called
economy measures that eliminate provision for
activity in lines of useful work in the schools, re-
taining only the driest and most formal subjects,
they can effectively cooperate with school authori-
ties to promote school subjects that give a healthy
outlet to those impulses for activity that are so
strong in the young. Through active parent asso-
ciations they can bring more of the outside world
into the school, breaking down that isolation of
the school room from social life which is one of
the chief reasons why schools do not do more ef-
fective work in the formation of character.

On the Summer Playgrounds of |93£r
(Continued from page 150)

there were no organization. The meetings are
short, but the projects that the club is interested
in are discussed in order that each girl may know
whether or not she is interested in them. Among
the projects discussed at the last meeting were the

Is Reading Your Hobby?

Books by Abbie Graham

LADIES IN REVOLT

O A vivid account of the charming but disturbing people
who played leading parts in the drama of woman's
changing position in the nineteenth century. 1

$1.75

Other Favorites

Ceremonials of Common Days

High Occasions

$1.00
1.00

Grace Dodge: Merchant of Dreams 1.50

THE WOMANS PRESS 

600 Lexington Avenue, New York, N. Y.

 

PLAYGROUND PLANNING AND LAYOUT

plays to be given, a watermelon party at the Bay-
shore, the renovation of the ladies’ dressing rooms,
the playground ball schedule, the contribution of
an act in the playground circus, reading, approv-

ing and learning a playground song, and the
promise that two members would read original

plays to be entered in a national play contest of
the Girl Scouts.

Committees are appointed which include girls
who are genuinely interested; those who are un-
able to be active in any project for any reason do
not hesitate to say so. Attendance is good because
the girls who miss a meeting feel they are not hav-
ing an important part in the formation of the pro-
gram and are not having their say in the policies
of the playground. They concentrate mainly on
the activities which concern them directly, but
when they vote to enter with any other group or
project there is a unified effort the value of which
is inestimable.

Sioux City’s Honor Point System

For the past three years the Department of
Recreation of Sioux City, Iowa, has been con-
ducting its program on the honor point system,
including points for memorizing poems. This
year the system is being revised and for the
poems a “reading for fun” feature is being sub—
stituted. The Children’s Department of the
Public Library is selecting twenty books for
each of the seven classes. In addition, a brief
synopsis of each book is being prepared for
use by playground leaders when children give
their oral reports.

Playground Planning and Layout

(Continued from page 155)
Some Practical Considerations

The mechanics of keeping a playground tidy
and in good repair should be as unobtrusive as
possible. Some sort of a service court, yard, shed
or at least a tool box is necessary. \Vithout such
equipment the caretaker is put to great incon-
venience and collected refuse is a problem. To
care for the custodian is a simple matter but it is
often overlooked. His requirements are few: he
needs shelter for tools, concealment for refuse
and repair materials, and free access to all parts
of the grounds. He should have a fence around
his yard and some screening from public gaze.
His shelter may be the field house or a simple shed.
The important point is that the housekeeping fa-
cilities of the playground should not be overlook-
ed and later set up by the maintenance department

 

Merry -Wave-Stride

Fully covered by patents which in-
clude the many exclusive safety fea-
tures. this Merry-Wave-Stride insures
complete safety to the children in your
parks and recreation grounds. Ever-
Wear Merry-Wave-Stride gives more
action and exercise than any piece of
equipment ever made.

Before you make the selection of any
new equipment, you owe it to your

children to install the safest equip-
ment . . . your choice can be no other

than EverWear’s Patented Stride. Ask
us for complete details.

Use Spring Rubber Safety
Seats For Your Swings

An ingenious ar-
rangement of rub-
bet and steel, pat-
ented by EverWear.
which eliminates
all the hazards of
former type swing
seats. This EverWear seat is soft, springy,
resilient, has remarkable safety features.
strength and durability. Priced low enough
to meet your budgets. Write us for details.

Our complete new catalog is

available without obligation.
Ask for it.

Springfield, OhioI U. S. A.

The World's oldest and largest exclusive maker

of playground. beach and pool apparatus: a
complete line of the SAFEST and most DURA-

BLE recreation apparatus made.

177

 

EverWear Offers the Safest

The EverWear Mfg. Co.

 

178 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Leisure, May 1935

The National Dance Festival, by Sydney Greenbie
A School Party, 'by Ruth M. Luther
The Camp As a Character Builder, by C. R. Mc-

Ken ney

Character, April-May 1935

Eight Tests for Parents in Selecting a Summer

Camp, by Hedley S. Dimock
Character Education in the Summer Camp, by

Charles E. Hendry

The American City, May 1935

Natural Resources Used to Make an Attractive Rec-

reation Center, Prescott, Arizona
What County Parks Should Be, by C. L. Palmer
Exceptional Opportunity to Enlarge Recreation Areas

Parks and Recreation, May 1935

Outdoor Recreation Planning for America, by "Con-

rad L. \Virth

Claremont Park—The Problem and the Solution, by
Edward Clark Whiting

East Bay Regional Park, by Emerson Knight

Esthetic Appeal of Union County Park System, by
Arthur R. Wendell

\Vhat Shall \Ve Do \Vith This Leisure? by V. K.

Brown

I

Camping Magazine, May 1935
What Educators Say Regarding'the Educational Sig—
nihcance of Camping, 'by William G. Vina]
The Enrichment of Spiritual Life in Camp, by Edwin
M. Hoffman

Educational Screen, May 1935
A Project in Puppet Production, by Naomi D. and

George “J. Wright

Safety Education, June 1935

Boys and Girls Organize for a Safe Summer, by
Elizabeth Brooke

A Yardstick for Aquatic Safety, by Marie W.
Bish0p

The Library Journal, May 15, 1935

Branch Library I'lousing for Little Theatres, by
Clarence Arthur Perry

Camping World. May 1935

Waterfront Protection, by Captain Charles B. Scully
Masks—How to Make Them, by Viola Allen

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, May 1935

Leisure-Time Activities for the Summer School, by
E. M. Sanders

Leisure, For What? by Jay B. Nash

Rural Recreation in Florida Under the Emergency
Relief Administration, by Lora M. Lock

Mind and Body, March 1935

Scientific Foundation of Physical Education, by Jay
B. Nash

Recreation in Japan, by Dr. Seiichi Kishi

How About LaCrosse for Girls? by Martha Gable

PAMPHLETS

Winter Report of Wheeling, West Virginia, Recreation
Department, 1935

Official Report of the Convention of the.Departrnent of
Superintendence of the National Education Assoaatron,

1935. Price $1.00 per c0py

Sixth Annual Report of the Recreation Commission of
Amsterdam, New York. 1934

Annual Report of the Park Department for the Year End-
ing December 31, I934, of Salem, Mass.

in some conspicuous spot. The cost of mainte-
nance can be held low if time saving facilities are
installed at the time of construction, as for ex-
ample, the provision of ample water connections
for lawn sprinkling and a simple, easily cleaned
system of drainage. Sometimes simplicity of
operation may justify the use of pipes and wires
of a capacity greater than actually required. Cer-
tainly the underground utility equipment should
be up to the standard of all improvements on the
playground.

\V hen the plan has been finished and the
grounds constructed according to it, the designer
need not remain long in doubt wondering whether
he did a good job. There are four sure tests from
the point of view of the boys and girls, the play
leader, the taxpayers and the neighbors. To these
may be added another: Is the average person who
visits or uses the playground unconscious of the
planning that has gone into it? Do the arrange-
ment, the apportionment of space, the location of
buildings, fences and even of trees appear so logi-
cal and simple that no studied design is apparent?

The nearer the plan approaches perfection, the
more natural and inevitable it seems. This is the
measure of a good playground plan.

The Swimming Pool on the Playground
(Continued from page 156)
fore the swimming program begins. The leaders

should be trained in the technique of strokes and
life saving work.

GrOUps may be organized such as swimming
teams, competitive diving and life saving groups,
master swimmers’ clubs and clubs for stunt swim-
ming. \Vater carnivals including all the pupils
may be given at the end of the campaign. These
exhibitions should be worked out to suit the local
community. The program must not be too for-
mal. and it is well to let the ideas come from the
children allowing them to give their suggestions
freely. Awards may be presented at this water

program.
(Continued on page 180)

AMONG OUR FOLKS 179

Among Our Folks

W. C. Batchelor, formerly Superintendent
of Recreation in Pittsburgh, has resigned.
Louis C. Schroeder, formerly on the staff of
the National Recreation Association, has been

appointed as his successor.

When by a special action of the state legis-
lature last year the Recreation Board of Park-
ersburg, West Virginia, was abolished together
with all existing municipal boards throughout
the state, D. D. Hicks, Superintendent of Rec—
reation, became Recreation Director of the
State ERA recreation program for \Vest Vir-
ginia. The Parkersburg Community Chest has
since appropriated $3,000 for reinstating the
recreation program, and Fred Conaway has
been employed as'full time director.

Clearwater, Florida', has appointed a recrea—
tion board and has employed as its full time
director Ralph D. Van Fleet who for the past
two years has served as part time worker.

Recreation commissions have been appointed
by ordinance in Lafayette and \Vinnsboro,
Louisiana. Harry A. \Vuelser has been em—
ployed as year round worker at Lafayette.

Don Griffin has been appointed Recreation
Director of the Milwaukee County park sys-
tem, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, following a period
of service on the staff of the city’s Extension
Department of the Public Schools.

Joseph F. Riley, formerly Superintendent of
Recreation in Elmira, New York, has become Di—
rector of Recreation of the Elmira Ref ormatory.

James F. McCrudden, formerly Director of
Community Service, Yonkers, New York, has
been made Superintendent of the Recreation Com-
mission.

Arthur Nelson formerly in charge of activities
of Yonkers Community Service, has become As-
sistant Superintendent of Recreation.

Announcement has just been made of the resig—
nation of Dr. James H. McCurdy as Director of
the Natural Science Division at Springfield Col-
lege and the appointment of Professor George B.
Affleck as his successor. For many years Dr. Mc-
Curdy has been a very loyal friend of the recrea-
tion movement, serving as a member of the Board
of Directors and giving wholehearted service to
the movement. Dr. McCurdy has given particular
thought to research problems relating to physical
education and recreation. Dr. McCurdy has a host
of friends in the recreation movement.

 

N O D U ST
to Endanger Health

. . . or mar Pleasure

 

0 Dust is unsanitary under any circum-
stances but is particularly obiection-
able where children play. Modern
playgrounds use SOLVAY Calcium
Chloride to eliminate dust positively
and inexpensively and give children a

firm, compact playing surface.

Furthermorel S O L V A Y Calcium

Chloride kills germs. lts effective
germicidal action has won the un-
qualified endorsement of physicians
and playground directors.

Solvay Calcium Chloride is positively
harmlessl does not track or stain.
Easily applied. Just spread evenly
over the surface. That's all. Nature
does the rest.

|00 conveniently located shipping
points assure prompt delivery and
minimum transportation charges.
Write for full information and prices.

S 0 LVAY

TRADE MARK REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.

Calcium Chloride
SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

Alkalin- and Chmin'mLPi-orducts Maniifacmred by
The 5013113: Process Company

40 RECTOR STREET NEW YORK
BRANCH OFFICES:

Boston Indianapolis Cleveland Pittsburgh

Chicago Kansas City Detroit St. Louis

Cincinnati Philadelphia Houston Syracuse

180 COSTUME BALLS IN THE BLACK HILLS

 

 

The Camping
Magazine

If you are interested in

The leadership of youth.

The swiftly changing methods in organized
camping.

The statements of leading thinkers on educa-
tion through camping.

Leadership training—Counsellor's Education.

Camps Programming—Administration.
Outdoor Sports and Activities.

New Games. Land and Water.
Swimming—Canoeing—Sailing.
Riding—Archery—Riilery.
Woodcraft—Indian Lore—Nature.
Artscraft—Dancing—Stun+5.

Council Fires—Story Telling.

Then read the Camping Magazine regularly
Send for a sample copy $2.00 a year.

LANE HALL, ANN ARBOR, MICH.
Dept. R

||———“_—_

 

The Swimming Pool on the Playground
(Continued from page 178)
A Brief Bibliography

Recreative Athletics

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York City
A.R.C. N0. 1005

American Red Cross, Washington, D. C.
Swimming S implifiied, by Lyba and Nita Sheflield

A. S. Barnes and Company, 67 W'est 44th Street,
New York City

How to Teagh Swimming and Diving, by T. K. Cureton
éssociation Press, 347 Madison Avenue, New York
ity
Recreationai Swimming, by T. K. Cureton
Association Press, New York City
Swimming Badge Tests

National Recreation Association

Costume Balls in the Black Hills

(Continued from page 159)
the business angle. Yard goods that had been in

stock for years was uncovered, and if anything
proved salable the stores profited. Trimmings,
outmoded many years ago, were “just the thing”
to add a desired touch to a costume. Hair dres-
sers were too busy to fill all appointments, and
such fun they had planning pompadours, curls
and fancy twists! The drug store sold lipstick,
eyebrow pencil and rouge to women who ordi—

narily leave no place in their budgets for such
vanities. The local photographer set up his camera
in one corner of the dance hall, and through the
lens caught the pictures of the evening. He lin—
ished these at reasonable cost, enlarged and tinted
several, and took orders. Of course, the originals
bought! Dressmakers took on helpers and trans-
formed their homes into regular workshops. A
few more dollars in the purses of persons who
could well use them!

And when the excitement of the Spearhsh ball
had passed, a large delegation, including the
Queen’s party, attended a ball in Rapid City on
February 22nd where they exchanged dances with
couples from Custer, Hot Springs, Hermosa and
Rapid City, and watched the crowning of the
Queen who will preside over the Black Hills
opening of the pageant. .

If the play spirit, caught by Spearhsh and other
Black Hills communities, carries over into the
summer months, there will be a release of the
human spirit that will make the Black Hills play-
ground a scene of incomparable jollity, with the
touches of history to make vivid the incidents
that have gone into the making of the American
scene.

Start Your Planning Now For the

Summer Closing Festival
(Continued from page 162)
There were singing and dancing acts, a boxing

match, Indian songs and dances, and ukulele
playing.

Last season 700 children from fourteen play-
grounds in Vancouver appeared in a circus which
the Elks Financed at a cost of $200. The circus
was such a success that it is to be an annual affair
with the best of last season’s acts incorporated
each year. About forty acts were presented and
at the end of the show prizes were presented for
the best performers: taking into consideration
'general conduct on the playground during the

season.
Folk Festivals

International folk festivals featuring the idea of
good will furnish a flexible vehicle as each ground
can select a nation and develop folk dances or a
festival scene centering around a custom of the
country. Such Figures as History, Progress, Peace,
etc., serve as narrators and introduce the groups
of children. Since it is desirable to have as little
Speaking as possible, most of‘the pageants re—
volve around a few such symbolic Figures. The

WHEN THE NEIGHBORHOOD PLAYGROUND ENDS ITS SEASON 181

use of amplifiers is recommended whenever pos-
sible. When the festival tells a familiar story, the
simple plot is usually carried forward by panto—
mime and a short description is sometimes in-
cluded in the,- program.

If the playground supervisor wishes to use the
closing festival as an opportunity to demonstrate
the work of the summer, Drama Service recom-
mends The Gifts* which was prepared for the
National Recreation Association on its twenty-
fifth anniversary. This pageant shows children,
young people and adults in a community-wide
recreation program. The adult groups may be
omitted but if the city is carrying on a compre-
hensive program it may be appropriate to include
these groups with the playground children. The
pageant utilizes practically every playground ac-
tivity. Seven characters—Community, Home,
School, Church, Spirit of Childhood, Spirit of
Youth, and Spirit of Leisure—carry the speaking
parts and introduce the groups. This simple
pageant presents a colorful and ever changing
panorama of play which carries an irrefutable
argument for play leadership and leisure time
activities.

 

*Obtainable from the National Recreation Association. $.25.

When the Neighborhood Playground

Ends Its Season
(Continued from page 16.5)

all who have contributed to the success of the
summer playground season and the closing event.
These can be included on the printed program,
published in the newspapers and given personally
by the master of ceremonies, or better still, by
the chairman of the sponsoring committee, just
before the closing number on the entertainment
program.

And then, when we inventory and pack away
our few remaining supplies, we might again turn
the matter over in our minds. From this closing
event, what impression did the visitors carry away
with them? Was it really that the children were
amazingly happy and spontaneous, knee deep in
their big undertaking? And what of the young-
sters themselves? Just “So long ’til next summer.”

A Civic-Minded Garden Club

( Continued from page 166)

berried'shrubs, compost piles, wardian cases,

house plants, seed catalogues and Christmas
greens.

Informal talks are given three or four times a

 

PUT

DIAMONDS

ON YOUR
PLAYGROUND

Equip your playground with Dia-
mond Pitching Horseshoes and
accessories. The line is popular
with amateurs and professionals
alike. Diamond products nced little
replacing. Shoes are drop forged
steel—will neither chip nor break.
\Vrite for new catalog P. S. 1.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46|0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

month by people who are authorities in some par-
ticular garden subject. Folding chairs transform
the exhibition room into a small lecture hall. Over
800 pe0ple attended these lectures last year.

The establishment of a garden center is a pro-
ject all communities can attempt. It meets a defi-
nite civic need. The entire town is improved by
educating the citizens to beautify the surround-
ings of each individual home. It helps to center
all garden club groups for constructive work. It
proves a center for such civic projects as elimi-
nation of ugly areas, reforestation and commu-
nity gardening. It provides a place for assembling
a horticultural library and enables the holding of
such activities as flower shows and a surplus
plant exchange. There is no limit to what can be
accomplished among the children for they clamor
for classes in growing flowers and vegetables.
Early in life they thus learn the love of beauty as
expressed in nature. Model gardens may be laid
out nearby and a botanical garden started for the
information of all ages. Who can measure the

influence for good that such a garden center may
exert?

182 THE FARM AS A CAMP BACKGROUND

The Farm As A Camp Background
(Continued from page 172)

solution to those organizations who carry on
this two week system as its basis because of
prohibitive cost of maintenance. With the food
bill per child per nine week season cut down
to $16.95, as at the Commune Farm, and even
lower in other set—ups, children can spend
longer periods at the same cost _as their two
week vacation. \Nith longer periods of time at
the disposal of the child, counselors no longer
will serve as comedians for these two week
periods (children acting passive roles) but will
assume a new outlook and will provide the
children with limitless opportunities for true
participation in country life.

For those schools which have made progres-
sive steps in their curriculum, the farm pro-
ject offers much as an extension of work done
in the city schools. In the farm community
children have sufficient opportunities for lead-
ership, active assumption of responsibilities,
true planning and a real insight into new ways
of living. From a character-educational set—up,
this work calls for immediate cooperation on
every child's part. From the purely academic

PLAY SAFE LY a;

.”’f. PLAYG ROU'N D

standard, this extension would bring the child

into direct contact with original fields of study.
The study of biology, physics, chemistry, ge-
ology, dietetics, surveying, breeding and cook-
ing becomes quite alive, substantial and spon-
taneous. The close contact with life in the raw
gives vent to a good deal of painting, clay
work, writing and other mediums of creative
expression. The crudeness of the household
calls for an immediate and practical use of any
arts and crafts that may have played a part in
the child’s school curriculum. The knowledge
of how to make candles may be of little use in
a modern home, but the farm household can
not do without it. Copper candle holders,
wrought by hand, may have a decorative place
in the city environment, but they have a prac-
tical use in the rehabilitation of an old farm.

It is the hope that this description of the
experience in working out the camp project
may pave the way for a better basis of camp
work. More and more opportunities to get
away from the unreal and artificial environ-
ment of the school must be offered to children
if we are to seek well rounded personalities
that must eventually accommodate themselves
to a gigantic practical world.

A SPECIAL SAFETY PACKET FOR
PLAYGROUND DIRECTORS

O A collection of materials to help the playground director

promote safety is now available. ‘It includes:

Ten attractive safety posters

A short play

Crayon lessons for small children

A program of activities for supervised playgrounds

Price $1.00

N ‘

O SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE, the only publication de-
voted entirely to child safety problems, brings you each
month posters, gradcd lesson outlines, informational
articles, stories, and plays.

$1.00 a year

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE
ONE PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK

With the Safety Packet. $1.75

Enclosed find ................................................................ ..for which please send SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE beginning

with the ................................................................... .issue.

Enclosed find $1.75 for SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE and the Special Playground Packet.

Name .......................................................... ..
Address .................................................... ..
City and State ..................................... ..

 

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

, Hours of Leisure

The Studio Limited, 44 Leicester Square, London.

' ROM England comes a new and delightful series of
hobbies and handcraft booklets known as Hours of
Leisure. Profusely illustrated and attractively printed,
they will be welcome additions to the library of the rec-
reation worker. Those available include: The Model
Theatre, by Victor Hembrow; Puppet Making, by Dana
Saintsbury Green; Sign—Writing, by T. G. Birtles; The
Doll’s House, by J. A. Grant; Cnt Paper Decoration, by
ChristOpher St. John; Fabric Printing, by W. B. Adeney;
Cushion Making, by Jeannetta Cochrane, and Radio and
Gramophone Cabinets, by P. A. Wells. These publica-
tions are available from the Studio Publications, Inc., 381
Fourth Avenue, New York City at 35 cents each.

Social Games For Recreation

By Bernard S. Mason, Ph.D. and Elmer D. Mitchell, A.M.

RMED with this book, the recreation leader will never
A lack for an answer to the question, “What shall we
play?” for the volume offers over 1,200 individual games
for the use at home, school, club and playground. Fur-
thermore the method of classification makes it easy to
find the type of material desired. Classifications include
social mixers; social dancing aids; party games; mysrery
games; dramatic party games; social relays and group
contests; duel contests and combats; council ring activi-
ties; rotative party games; mental play; useful teaching
games; clubroom and play room games; automobile
games and contests; picnic activities: stalking and Scout-
ing games; joke stunts; forfeits. There are many line
drawings and photographs.

In using this book the leader should keep in mind the
fact that in itself the book does not attempt to cover the

entire field of games but is to be used in conjunction with

its companion volume, Active Games and Contests.

Great Patriots’ Days

By Nina B. Lamkin. Samuel French, New York. $.50.

HIS booklet, the most recent of the “All Through the
Year Series,” contains suggestions for honoring
Columbus, Washington. Lincoln, Lee and Roosevelt. In-
formation is given regarding these heroes, and there are
'apprOpriate quotations, playlets and suggestions for pro-
grams. Source material is offered.

IOI Best Songs

Revised 35th Edition. Cable Company, Chicago, Illinois.
10¢ a copy, $1.00 a dozen, $7.00 a hundred.
‘THIs is the least expensive of all the collections of
songs of community singing or other informal sing-
ing. It contains all the old familiar songs, most of them
-in four parts, and also a few choruses from the lighter

operas, and a few hymns and rounds. It is very clearly
printed and is of convenient size and weight. It would
serve very well as a basic or central “text book” for any
informal singing group, for which additional small col-
lections or single songs could 'be added.

Everybody's Song Book

Obtainable from Frederic J. Haskin, Director, Washing-
ton Information Bureau, Washington, D. C. 20¢ a c0py.

T HIS book differs from the one mentioned above in that

it contains 225 songs, including cowboy songs, sea
chanteys, Negro spirituals, a larger number of hymns,
Christmas carols and children’s songs and several old
songs which in their day were very widely known and
deserve to 'be revived. There are a number of trivial
songs which can be disregarded. A very useful, inex-
pensive book.

Moclern Basketball For Girls

By Wilhelmine E. Meissner and Elizabeth Yeend Meyers.
Scholastic Coach Bookshop, New York. $1.00.
T HE material in this book is designed by the authors,
who are members of the Committee on Women’s Bas-
ketball of the A.P.E.A., for people who have a general
basic understanding of basketball and who wish to make
the game more interesting by incorporating tactics and
techniques of various sorts. “Fast and well timed passes,
clever dodges, quick accurate shots, well executed pivots
and purposeful floor plays should be dominant in girls’
basketball today,” state the authors in their preface. The
book is profusely illustrated with a large number of pho-
tographs and diagrams.

We Can Take It

American Book Company, 88 Lexington Avenue, New
York. Paper 25¢; cloth 60¢.

I N this booklet of 128 pages, Ray Hoyt tells the story of

the first two years of the Civilian Conservation Corps.
He paints a vivid picture of thousands of young men at
work and play, and gives us the objectives and scope of
this program in which four Federal departments are
c00perating. Mr. Hoyt has been in touch with thousands
of men as they have served in the camps and his book
reflects the spirit of the movement.

Swimming Analyzed

By Gertrude Goss. A. S. Barnes and Company. New
York. $2.00.

THIS book presents in order a possible teaching pro-

gression in swimming, diving and stunts from the be-
ginning through the advanced stages. It also contains
chapters on the organization of swimming meets, forma-.

tion swimming, modified water polo, and the care and
sanitation of swimming pools.

183

184 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Work Night Program.
Church Handcraft Service, St. Albans, New York.

$.25.

A work night, according to this practical mimeo-
graphed booklet, is an evening given over to the making
of simple, inexpensive but attractive and useful articles.
It is a program designed to acquaint young people with
the value and 'enjoyment of simple craft .work. The
booklet tells how to prepare for a work night and de-
scribes the articles which can be made—metal mascots,
initialed writing paper, belts, articles of leather and .011-
cloth, decorated boxes and bottles. . This is a helpful little
book to have in your handcraft library.

Community Programs for Summer Play Schools.

By LeRoy E. Bowman. Edited by Benjamin.C.
Gruenberg. Child Study Association of America,
221 West 57th Street, New York. $.35.

Vacation projects in experimental education and crea-
tive recreation through the cooperation of schools and
other community agencies are described in this pamphlet,
and conclusions and suggestions from observations and
field service in various cities are presented. The pam-
phlet is divided into three parts: The Need and the Op-
portunity; Origin and Development of.the. Program; The
Program and Suggestions for Organization.

Behavior of the Preschool Child.

By Lois M. Jack, Ph.D. Iowa Studies in Child
Welfare. University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa. Paper
bound $1.35; cloth bound $1.70.

The primary purpose of this study has been toodetcra
mine and to study some of the factors in the soc1al be-
havior of children of preschool age who maintained a
position of ascendance in the free play of their preschool
groups. The subjects selected were four year old children
in the preschool laboratories of the Iowa Child Welfare
Research Station. This book gives in detail the findings

of the study.

Swimming Pool Data and Reference Annual.

Hoffman—Harris, Inc., 404 Fourth Avenue, New
York. $2.00. '

In 1935 the issue of the Swimming Pool Data and Ref-
erence Annual, in addition to the Joint Committee Report
of the Joint Bathing Place Committee of the State Sani-
tary Engineers and the American Public Health Associ-
ation, contains a number of articles on swimming pool
construction and administration. There is also a com-
prehensive article by Thomas K. Cureton on “Mechanics
and Kinesiology of Swimming.”

“Kit” 38.

Edited by Lynn and Katherine Rohrbough. Pub-
lished by Lynn Rohrbough, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

An interesting feature of “Kit” 38, the latest of the
Pocket Recreation “Kit,” is the section on “Guide Posts
to Leisure" with its analysis and interpretation of various
phases of leisure-time problems and interests. There is
also a section in which international games and a number
of group games and stunts are described.

Group Activities for Mentally Retarded Children——
A Symposium.

Bulletin, 1933, No. 7. Compiled by Elise H. Martens.
Office of Education. Government Printing Office,
\Vashington, D. C. $.20.

In every school system the education of mentally handi-
capped children presents serious problems. The author
of this bulletin has visited classes for exceptional children
in a number of cities and states in which they are being
successfully conducted, and with the help of a number of

teachers, has collected a number of fully tested group
activities. The activities selected are those related closely
to the life of the communities in which the children live
and in which they must eventually find a place economi-
cally and socially. One chapter tells of the organization
of a toy orchestra; another of beautifying the schoolroom,
while a third describes a study of trees, and still another
the food market. Helpful bibliographies are included in

the book.

A Health-Physical Education-Recreation Bulletin.

$Vomans Press, 600 Lexington Avenue, New York.
.25.

The February issue of A Health-Physical Education-
Rerrcation Bulletin. contains in addition to its section on
health programs in the Y.\V.C.A.’s, the recreation pro-
grams being conducted by local Y.\V.C.A.'s throughout
the country.

Biliography of School Buildings, Grounds,
and Equipment—~Part IV.

By Henry Lester Smith and Forest Ruby Noffsinger.
Bureau of Cooperative Research, Indiana University,
Bloomington, Indiana. $.50.

Part IV of this bibliography is an extension of the
bibliOgraphy, Part I of which was first published in Jan-
uary, 1928. Part IV includes references from April, 1932,
to October, 1934. The four parts of the bibliography
should be used together as there is no overlapping Of
references. The material is carefully classified under
twenty-two subject headings, and there are a number of
references to playgrounds, athletic fields, indoor play
rooms, and similar recreational facilities.

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS
JOSEPH LEE, President
JOHN H. FINLEY. First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAvUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAucHzR, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
W1LIAH BUTTERWOR'I‘H, Moline, Ill.

CLARENcR M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORBETT, POrtland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
JOHN H. FINLSY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANcIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRnY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANiEII, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. Looms, New York, N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, PittShurgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIxEv, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodhury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWOR'I‘R, JR., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERch M. WARDURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

Mas. WILLIAM H. WOODIN, JR., Tucson, Ariz.

