A Message

To the Recreation Congress

0U KNOW how heartily I believe in the adequate provision
Y of opportunities for recreation, and how through the years
I have cared for the work of the .National Recreation As~
sociation. I rejoice in the growing public interest in this subject
as evidenced by the fine facilities now being provided by the
government—— federal, state, and local—for the enjoyment of
the people.

Of even greater importance in my opinion is the definite
recognition that the field of recreation is a fruitful one for those
desiring to render notable public service. I earnestly hope that
in each of our local communities men and women interested in
the public welfare will give increasing thought and time to this
great democratic method of providing recreation for all the peo-
ple untrammeled by any motive except that of living fully and
richly.

Please express to the recreation leaders gathered together
at Chicago and to all those serving in the recreation movement
the appreciation of the federal government for their cooperation
and loyal service in carrying forward recreation projects of the
various emergency agencies.

I believe the exchange of information and ideas among the
leaders at the National Recreation Congress will result in carry-
ing forward the recreation movement with the same high en-
thusiasm which has always characterized your group.

FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT.

 

DECEMBER, 1935

429

December Has Come

 

L Hirer-shy Elementary S chool, Uni-(remit; a} California at Los Angeles.
L'sf'd h}; com-3933' of the Progressive Ediention Association.

Recreation and the Good Life

HEN I thought today of
Wall appropriate reasons

for holding this conference in Chicago,
many of which you have been told about by
guests, the one which kept revolving in my mind
always as the greatest, and also as representing
the greatest loss, was the thought that Jane
Addams was no longer here. That great prophetic
voice‘called this country to account a quarter of a
century ago and told us precisely what was going
to happen, and warned us that if we were not
foresighted enough to see the dangers and evils
of an uncontrolled industrial system this genera-
tion of youth would pay the price. Alas, the num-
bers who heeded Jane Addams were too small,
and we are confronted with a lost generation!
The very generation which Jane Addams wrote
about a quarter of a century ago are now the
youth, many of whom, having gone through our
complete educational system, have never done a
day’s work; have had no experience in labor;
have no outlook for the future, and to them the
word “recreation” itself must now sound with a
tone of bitterness. When I think of Jane Addams
my thoughts become extremely serious.

There are two tasks I would like to perform to-
night, and if there isn’t time, it doesn’t matter. I
will go as far as I can with each of them and drop
them when I think you have become weary. The
first has to do with the necessity for taking seri-
ously the theme of this conference—“What Are
the New Frontiers for Rec-
reation P” I should then like
to say something about the
problem which causes my
almost grim attitude toward
our present national exist-
ence, and. finally, if there
is still time, I should like to
say a few words about the
Federal Government an d
the plans which are now
under way, for the first
time in our history, for
viewing our recreational or

By EDUARD C. LINDEMAN

Mr. Lindeman has long been known as a
teacher and lecturer, having been asso-
ciated since I924 with the New York School
of Social Work. He is author of a number
of books, among them "The Meaning of
Adult Education." Through his writing and
addresses he has given impetus to the
movement for progressive education and
for the self-expression of the masses of the
people. During the war he served in War
Camp Community Service sponsored by
the National Recreation Association. At the
present time he is Director, Community
Organization for Leisure. Works Progress
Administration of the federal government.

our leisure-time problem as a
nation, as a whole.

The first task I shall perform quickly and in
outline form. It seems to me we will not get the
proper perspective upon what our next obligations
and responsibilities are to be unless we have in
mind something about the general goal which is
now agitating the peoples of the world and par-
ticularly America.

What Is the Good Life?

There is one word which we have been using
over and over during the past three or four years.
I think it was originally suggested by a paper
which Mr. Walter Lippmann read at one of the
universities in the far West. It is an old, treas-
ured word among philosophers, namely, the “good
life.”

A new note is being struck in America at
present, and it has something to do with this
ancient concept of a good life. Everywhere‘peo-
ple are asking themselves, “What is the good life?
Is it really attainable? Do we live in a universe

'closed at both ends? Are we caught? In what

sense are we free? In what sense is it possible
for men living on this planet so to relate .them-
selves to their environment, and then themselves
to each other, as to bring about a decent and
wholesome experience ?”

Life is not good for millions of our citizens
now. Indeed, it never has been good except for
a very few. For life is not
good unless our energies
How freely and easily, un—
less the tasks upon which
we are engaged leave us
with a minimum of fatigue.
Not many people had a
chance to work in such
fashion in the past. Life is
not good when it is difhcult
or impossible for us to see
the relationship between
what we do from day to
day and some long-term

431

432 . RECREATION AND THE GOOD LIFE

purpose or plan, and it has been a characteristic
of life in America, particularly of the working
classes, that they never could see beyond a few
days or a few weeks, or, at the most, a few
months, in their careers and the careers of their
families.

Life is not good when many of our actions,
when a majority of our actions, are impelled by
fear, worry, or hatred; and life is not good be-
cause we are frightened. Many of the things we
do these days are not done with clear foresight of
hope and promise, but are the opportunistic adap-
tations to fear. Very somberly one’s thoughts
wander away from the local habitat into our world
at large and realize how much of modern ex-
istence is dominated by a rising tide of racial
hatred; and more somberly still do we who sit so
comfortably in this hall tonight stop to realize
that many young men, the first generation who
became the objects of a national recreation pro—
gram in the first of our fascist states, are march-
ing tonight across the soil of a foreign people to
attack them in warfare. Then we know life isn’t

good.
Life isn’t good when our social relationships

leave us unrefreshed; when we go to committee

meetings and conferences, and come away tried:
when in association with each other in planning
out our common destiny we discover that the
greater our proximity the less we like each other.
Then life isn’t good.

Now it is possible for us to talk across the
oceans and have our own voices heard instan-
taneously in foreign lands, so near are we brought
together by science and technology, and every step
nearer seems to push us spiritually another step
farther apart. Why?

And, finally, life is not good unless our experi-
ence is realistic, and for us it isn’t. We live in a
gigantic fantasy. The serious-minded person must
arise every morning these days and say, “Is any-
thing I am going to do today going to be real?
Is it going to have real meaning, or am I going to
go through motions of whose meaning I- have no
insight, no experience, a sort of automatic, me-
chanical motions?” Gradually we have been
building this fantasy, this scene of unreality, until
in some respects it seems to me to have become
almost the significant aspect of our present cul-
tural crisis, and the most imposing tasks seems to
be for us to discover a sense of reality.

How does one discover reality? By relating
oneself to something outside the self, by seeing

yourself as functionally necessary, not to your-
self merely, but to your time.

Victories Won

But I didn’t mean to go into this analysis of
what is meant by the good life, or what philoso-
phers mean by it, except as a kind of prelude to
what I had intended to do, namely, to map out
briefly what seemed to me to be the successive
victories which culturally-minded people in
America have won, and what there then remains
as our next chance.

I am thinking now particularly of youth. of this
group of men and women who a quarter of a
century ago began making themselves heard, be-
gan saying that there is something more in life
than labor and goods, the end of the goods of life
is not in themselves. If we are to become a
wealthy nation, capable of vast economic produc—
tion, then there must be some meaning in that
production beyond commodities; there must be
some way by which we can use our wealth to
create a finer society and a finer type of person.

Coming down a little more closely to your
specialized field, it seems to me that you, as part
of this advance of American culture, have won
the following victories. First of all you had to
overcome a deep-seated New England prejudice
against fun. There was a theory that somehow
or other life was good when that which was most
spontaneous in human beings was repressed. and
if one now reads the chronicles of those early days
in New England, reads the life of Charles Francis
Adams or Henry Adams, but Charles Francis in
particular, and reads the chapter which describes
a. Sunday in a New England home, one gets a
realization of how deep-seated the theory was that
somberness and gloominess made a fitting life, and
that anything that resembled spontaneity, freedom

-of action on the part of the individual, was a

sign of lack ’of self-possession and self-restraint.
That battle was won.

Then we had to fight that weird theory in edu-
cation—the theory which seemed to hold that
only that was learning which was acquired dur—
ing the most painful circumstances, and when
anybody looked as if he were suffering and at the
same time was acquiring information, that might
be called education! That battle has been mostly
won. It is a matter of fact that the two terms are
now used almost synonymously. At least I use
them so. To me recreation is the creative aspect
of education; it is merely another way of ex-

|

l

RECREATION AND THE GOOD LIFE 433

pressing growth. But there
was a time that many of you
in the audience remember
‘ when our chief battle was
not with parents, not with the
church, not with the somber-
minded pe0ple, but with peo-
ple who had our children in
their charge—schoolmasters.
Then we also had to mod—
ify the curious notion that play was something
which took place in a vacuum and that it bore no
relationship organically to the rest of life. We
had to keep emphasizing that play is not some—
thing you do in order to make up for life; it is
not a compensation for life; it is not an antidote
for something you don’t- like in necessary exist-e
ence. Play is life; play is one of the ways in
which you express what is most free in you, what
is most human. Most of you have been instru-
mental in bringing about the newer conception.
Then we had to fight the public battle to win
support for playgrounds, for community centers,
for the use of public schools, and that was a bat—
tle to influence politicians. It is mostly won.
Recreation is popular now. It, is one of the most
popular of all public services in municipal life.
Then we had a battle with ourselves. All of
those who were active in the early days of the
recreation movement became specialists in activi-
ties, and they interpreted recreation almost entirely
in terms of something to do. Slowly we have
been attempting to convince people that that is
the most superficial part of recreation, and if it
continues to be the main part then recreation as
a whole will remain a superficial part of our
culture.
I Recreation is not a set of exercises or activities;
it is primarily an attitude towards life, a sort of
gallant attitude towards life. You can tell the
people who are constantly being re—created and
refreshed and made anew because they are the
people who are always reaching out for new ex-
perience; they are the adventurous people, the
gallant people, and what tells in them is not some-
thing which is the consequence of exercise or
movement. It is the consequence of some growth
which has taken place in their total personalities.
Finally, it must be said that while this repre-
sents a. kind of synoptic view of the victories we
have gained, they are not all won. In each case
there is still something to be done. But, on the
whole, it is safe, I believe, to say that there is now

"Music, folk festival and dance. pag-
eantry, games and recreational pursuits.
sculpture, painting, building. arts and
crafts—all these are creative expres-
sions closely integrated and related to
periods of national culture and growth.
As in the days of Aristotle. the arts may
again offer us the means of living the
good life in our new social order."
———Margaret C. Brown.

in this country a recreation
movement which has become
integrated in our cultural
pattern and is here to stay.
The growth in the last five
years has been greater than
in all the previous history of
the movement taken together.
And now we are in danger.
At the moment of greatest

popularity—this is true of movements as well as
of persons—comes the moment of greatest haz—
ard. If I have time a little later I should like to
point out what seems to me to be some of the
chief dangers to the recreation movement, but I
shall pass on now to what I had originally plan-
ned, 'namely, a brief suggestion about what the

next horizon is.

Where Are the New Frontiers in Recreation?

\Vhat do you mean by your theme, “New Fron-
tiers for Recreation ?” Well, I suppose what I
say has been in the minds of most of you at one
time or another. I have tried to bring it together
in a brief statement. We have had a habit in this
country of bringing the good things, particularly
those which became public services, to those
classes of our population who are already partially
privileged. Of course, it is an anomaly in a coun-
try such as ours to have had a leisure class, but
we have had one. Next to the leisure' class, the
people who had recreation in America were those
just underneath, and then the middle classes. Now
we must give our attention more directly—not as
we have so often done, by charity, jumping from
the middle class down to the most neglected to
whom the new public services were offered as
philanthropy—to that great class of working class
Americans, farmers and city dwellers, who do the
work of the world. In this group there are still
some of the great neglected areas——people who
have never been taught to play; people who have
as yet no recognition of the meaning of organized
play; and still within this group, other great
neglected sections of our population, only one of
which I shall mention now, namely, the Ameri-
can Negroes. They are beginning to show us
something of the fineness of their bodily rhythms
when they are given a chance to participate in
our customary forms of athletics. That is not
enough. There is something in our American
Negroes which is so playful, so fine, so inherently
esthetic that it is our great loss that in our largest

434 RECREATION AND THE GOOD LIFE

cities the Negro populations are always left to the
last in public services.

I have recently been engaged with two groups
in two of our largest American cities in working
out a twenty-five year plan for improving the con—
ditions of the Negro pe0ple in those two cities,
and this experience has brought me face to face
with some of the most incredible neglect in edu—
cation, in recreation, in all the social services,
which still goes on, and goes on in some of our
most prosperous and some of the most highly
institutionalized American cities.

This, then, is one of our first frontiers. Recre—
ation has no meaning in this country unless it be—
comes thoroughly democratized ; unless it be—
comes so, its meaning is still negative; it is still
an antidote for something, not a projection but an
injection, and I know that is not what you want
it to be.

The next frontier is to make a national ap—
proach to the problem of adult recreation. I
know this has been one of the topics of discussion
in this Congress for the last ten years approxi—
mately, and yet every time I go out to the small
towns and rural communities in America, and
go to the school house and see the adult popula—
tion come marching in, I have a renewed realiza—
tion of something dead. 0, what a give—away that
phrase is which we use so commonly when young
people get married! We say they are going to
“settle down.” That is precisely what they do,
too. Five years after they are “settled down” you
can just see the sagging down, and it is not only
a muscle sag but a mental sag. Sometimes I dread
to be invited to the homes of former students,
particularly if they have been out of college for
more than five years. I know what books I will
find on the library shelf ; I know how quickly the
stimulus to movement of both body and thought
stagnates in the settling down process.

Now we have a great chance; a recreation
movement and an adult education movement, par—
ticularly the parent education movement, can go
hand in hand. They can, that is, if one of the
great dangers which now confronts us can be sur-
mounted. I thought I wouldn’t mention these
dangers, but one now- becomes so pertinent that
it must be included—namely, that as recreation
becomes more popular it also becomes more com—
petitive. There are more and more groups that
want to carry on recreation, and more and more
groups that become envious of other groups. One
of the reasons there is no small town recreation

movement which keeps young married cOUples
alive, keeps the adults growing, is that the insti-
tutions which serve those smaller communities are
struggling against one another. We must not be-
come a party to this narrow, localized institu-
tional strife. It is not only in the local com-
munity, however, it is also among our national
agencies.

Third, the frontier which I foresee as beingl
approachable and realizable in the near future is
to bring about a recreation program of such high I
standards that it will automatically become a!
match for the dynamics of our civilization. I am
making now a contrast between two processes in q
socicty: one to be called the civilization whichl
consists of or is derived from technology, in-
dustry, and is extremely dynamic; on the other
hand, culture, which is a kind of emotional or—'
ganization of experiences, the tone of life which
is derived primarily from our stablized institu—l
tions. The gap between culture and civilization is
what represents to me our present cultural crisis.

 

 

More Comprehensive Claims Imperative

\Vhat I have said about recreation is this: thus
far our rccreation program has been too modest;
it hasn’t made large enough claims, or its claims
have been falsely placed. For example, we have
often had our program accepted by the public on
the basis of claims which we couldn’t justify. \Ve
have said, “Give us playgrounds and we will
guarantee that crime will be diminished.” Don’t
ever allow anybody to confront you with a paral—
lel set of graphs, one showing the constant in-
crease in the number of playgrounds, and the
other the constant increase in crime. No, I don’t
mean making this kind of a claim for recreation.
We have been making thc wrong claims. \Ve
must now make a comprehensive claim. On the
onc hand is civilization, with all its drama. Sci—
ence is now frce,‘mostly; we can make all the
machines we want, all the inventions we wish. But
on the other hand we have a sense of values
which is so far out of harmony with this driving,
dynamic civilization that the instruments of civil-
ization themselves will no longer function, and
this is the claim wc must make. \Vhat people do
aside from‘their necessary, compulsory labor is
just as important as the labor itself; recreation
must become a match for industry, for tech—
nology, for science.

This means that we ourselves must begin to
broaden our whole interpretation of the word. It

 

RECREATION AND THE GOOD LIFE 435

may be necessary to coin a new word since the
old one has already so many narrow connotations.
But, certainly, if we think in terms of the good
life as foreshadowed in the early part of this dis-
cussion, then some entirely new means must be
introduced. A better society, a better culture,

cannot be brought about without improved per- .

sonalities. we place before the country this
charge; we want people to have a good life. We
want them to have it in terms of the goods of
life, and for the first time in the history of the
world we now realize that is possible. Every-
body could live in a good house; everybody could
have good food; everybody could wear good
clothes; everybody could have good medical at-
tention, and everybody could have plenty of lei-
sure to develop all of his latent capacities, so far
as the goods of life are concerned. But the good
life in terms of a social product is dependent
upon a new type of personality, and it is at this
point that we can now begin to make new claims
and wider claims for recreation.

A New Type of Personality Necessary

What kind of a person will it take to live in the
new world, happily, fruitfully, constructively?
“7 ell, it will take first of all a team—minded per-
son, a crew-minded person—I choose the words
from the realm of athletics. It will take people
who get fun out of doing things together. No
matter what you think
about collectivism it is
already here; this kind

"We are attempting to create a recreation move-
ment which will spontaneously produce people
who will get fun out of doing things together."

.of a society can’t operate any longer on the basis

of individualism; the machinery won’t run; the
goods won’t get produced. In spite of the fact

‘that we are potentially capable of a good life in

terms of ‘the goods of life, the goods aren’t here.
The per capita wealth in the United States in
1929 was less than $2,500 per person. You can’t
have a good life on the income from $2,500. But
potentially it is here. The instruments are all
here; we can’t use them because we don’t know
what their purpose is. If we could only make up
our minds about what the value of these instru—
ments is to be, what the end is to be, we could
use all these macllines and many more machines
to produce the wealth necessary to give people a
decent life. But this, you see, brings back the
eternal relationship between the social goal and
human stuH, the personality, the human instru-
ment through which we have to operate.

50 I say we can make this claim: we can say
that people who learn to play together may learn
how to do many other things together for their
mutual advantage. Not necessarily, however. You
can also use play to regiment people, to reduce
their personal equations, to make them ready
members of a mob. But what we are saying is
that we are attempting to learn how to create a
recreation movement which will spontaneously
produce people who will get fun out of doing
things together. We are saying next that we can
produce a new type of
personality in w h i c h
there will be a decent

 

Court“)l Syracuse, N. Y., Department of Parks

436 RECREATION AND THE GOOD LIFE

balance between freedom on the one hand and au-
thority on the other. I .can’t understand why so
many business men object to playing the game of
business according to common rules when those
same men, if they leave their work and go out to
play a game of golf or a game of tennis, subject
themselves immediately to the rules. A business
man who thinks it is not wrong to evade by legal-
istic means the payment of his income taxes
wouldn’t dare step over the line when he is serv—
ing a ball in tennis. He would be ashamed. He
has had the wrong kind of recreation. He hasn’t
been taught the relationship between play and
growth; he is the sort of a person who thinks
recreation is an antidote for work; that it is a
way in which you forget about the badness of
your other experience. So he lives one way in his
sports, according to rules, but he doesn’t want
any rules in the other areas of his life.

We are going to demonstrate ultimately that
play teaches people and develops a type of, per-
sonality in which the balance
between freedom and author-
ity is' automatic. “7 e know
that there are certain aspects
of 0111' experience in which we
must giye up some of our will-
fulness in order that every—
body may share; there are
other realms in which _we must
demand increased freedom, and that is exactly
what you learn in play.

I hope we shall also produce personalities in
which it will become also automatic to see the re—
lationship between difference and unity. A team
makes use of differences. If everybody on the
team were the same it would not be nearly as ef—
fective as it is because everybody is different. A
football team, for example, of men all the same
height, all the same length of limb. all moving at
the same acceleration of speed, could be easily
beaten by a team of smaller men provided there
was enough difference in the other team. The es-
sence of a team is that you get unity out of dif-
ference. How our country needs that lesson now
at this moment when we tend to separate into par-
tisan cliques, when we are farther apart as a people
than we have been in years, and the whole ten-
dency is towards separatism ! How we should prize
to have now thousands and millions of people
who had learned how to play in this sense that it
is their very difference which counts towards
unity. 0111' differences are not absolute; the rea-

    

  

"Living itseltimay become the
greatest of arts once we make
room for inventiveness."

-—-Eduard C. Lindeman.

son I can have fun with you in a game is prin-
cipally because you are different than I am.

I could go on indefinitely with these outlines of
types of traits which it seems to me would be the
natural outcome of a more comprehensive and
sounder conception of the role of play in modern
life, but I want to make one or two very rapid
statements about the federal program in its rela-
tion to leisure time.

The Federal Program

First, let me speak of the responsibility which
some of us have assumed in \Vashington under
the dispensation of that portion of the Relief Ad—
ministration called Works Progress, which aims
first of all to place in employment as quickly as
possible all of the deserving persons now on re-
lief. This includes approximately half a million
persons who have some sort of professional train-
ing. They have become the object of special at-
tention under a division of the \Vorks Progress
Administration which is called
Professional and Service.

Within this division my re-
sponsibility is two-fold: first,
to employ those persons who
are properly trained in the
various arts, namely, painting,
sculpture, music, literature.
and the drama; second, to use
all of the remaining persons in the professional
group who either are equipped, or who can be
trained, for conducting community organizations
throughout the country on the behalf of a pro-
gram for leisure time.

That is, as briefly as I can state it, the program
of this division. You and I know all of the various
difficulties and hazards. A great government
mechanism works under tremendous handicaps;
we have been very slow getting this program un-
der way. At last, all the major barriers have been
removed and within the next few weeks it should
be possible to bring about the steps which will
bring organization to these communities. You
notice how I have stated the function. It is not
to go into communities to teach people to play;
the purpose is to go into communities to teach
them how to organize for play so that when the
depression is over, or when federal funds are
withdrawn, we will have planted some seeds in
these communities which will go on creating a
national leisure-time movement.

( Continued on. page 468)

 
  

 

Recreation in .Our Present Democracy

By MRS. EUGENE MEYER

Chairman, Recreation Commission
Wesfchesfer County, New York

HIS IS THE most critical period in which our
T national congress of recreation workers has

ever assembled, for there is all about us a
new world in the making, and in that evolution
our: work has a singularly important role to play.
The whole recreation movement came into ex-
istence in response to new social conditions, and
since those conditions have only been intensified
by the sudden crisis from which we are now
gradually emerging, the need for recreational
programs has been intensified with them. Indeed,
the responsibility to meet the demands which are
suddenly being made upon us is very grave and
it depends entirely upon us how successfully we
shall understand our new role in the social struc—
ture and how creatively we shall be able to think
and act in the face of new and ever newer
situations.

When governmental problems are as vast as
they have become today, we are fortunate in be-
ing obliged to function in a limited held, since
recreation, because of its intimate human per-
sonal nature, is and ever must remain a local
activity. We are dedicated to the service of the
whole community, often a very small community.
The very success of all that we do depends upon
close contact with the people whom we serve,
upon exact knowledge of the environment both
social and natural, upon' accessibility and upon an
intuitive perception of the cultural needs of our
respective communities. Such close cooperation,
such integration with the daily life of a people, is
possible only if recreation systems are broken
down into relatively small units, and I am sure
you will agree with me without further argu—
ment that the growth of large, impersonal organi-
zations is a thing to be prevented at all costs if
our work is to retain the spontaneity, variety and

A plea for maintaining the in-:
tegrity of the local recreation
body and making it a vital part
of the government of a city.

vitality which alone spell success for recreational
endeavors.

Inevitany when I speak of a recreation pro—
gram I have in mind our. own Westchester
County (N. Y) situation. Even in our small
county unit the activities are not imposed from
the central office but arise in the towns and vil—
lages with local aid. The County Commission
functions only for those aspects of the work in
which one village cooperates with a number of
others in collective efforts or in competitions that
are county-wide. In this way social solidarity and
county pride are built up by programs primarily
designed to improve health, to stimulate educa-
tion and to satisfy cultural needs through athletic
leagues, dramatic societies, choral groups, play-
grounds, workshops and a multitude of other
things too familiar to you to be enumerated.

I cannot imagine this closely-knit program
functioning at all as a small and remote and half—
neglected part of a national plan. How would
Washington know the problem of a boys’ club in
the town of Ossining? If you tell me that the
Boy Scouts and other national organizations have
the same problem, my answer is that these or—
ganizations lean on our Commission very heavily
for all kinds of assistance which we gladly sup—
ply. But what suggestion could Washington make
that would meet this or any other problem that
confronts us? And if I hear you say, what I am
afraid many of you are already thinking, that
Washington can supply money, then my answer
to you is that Washington never sends money
without specific explanations as to how the money
will be spent. I can well appreciate that Federal
money even with_many strings attached may be
welcomed by recreation workers, but remember
that it is all too evident already that Federal sup—

437

438 RECREATION IN OUR PRESENT DEMOCRACY

port is temporary and that you may easily put
yourself in the position of leading youir pe0ple
to expect services that you cannot possibly con-
tinue. Permanent growth in the recreation move—
ment can never. be achieved in that‘ way, and you
may even harm the whole movement by leading
people to think of recreation as just another tem—
porary Federal project. I have said that the rec-
reation movement must meet local needs and
therefore it must rest upon local support.

By saying that our work is essentially local, I
in no wise minimize its importance. On the con-
trary, I mean thereby to
emphasize its value, for no-
body will ever be able to
distort or destroy the in-
escapable truth that in a
real democracy, and espe—
cially in 'a democracy as
vast as ours, local autonomy
is and will remain the par—
ticular genius, the prime
motive force and the secret
strength of our system of
government. Even this fun—
damental tenet of our demo-
cratic faith is being chal-
lenged, and aggressively
challenged, at this moment.
but all such threats to our
sound development mu s t
fail; for even if our theo-
retical belief in liberty is
temporarily \v e a k e n e d
t h r o u g h universal hard—
ships, the habits of freedom
which are ingrained in the
American citizen will final-
ly repel any attempt to break them down. Federal
administrations come andgo, but local govern—
ment has continuity because it touches the daily
lives of the people and thereby holds their con-
tinuous interest and attention. The interference
of the central government in local matters pre-
supposes greater wisdom concerning these mat-
ters than the local authorities themselves possess,
a thing that none of you, I am ure, will be pre—
pared to admit. But even if the central govern—
ment were ten times as wise as our local adminis—
trators, its operation in the area of local problems
would still be disastrous, because our country is
much too vast and local interests much too varied

 

"We have no right to prafe of liberty
nor to boast of our leisure. so long
as there are large numbers of child-
ren who do not know green fields."

and numerous ever to be successfully administered
from W'ashington. In this connection de Tocque-
ville makes the following prescient observation in
his book on American Democracy: “\Vhenever a
central administration affects to supersede the
persons most interested, I am inclined to suppose
that it is either misled, or desirous to mislead.”

In the present situation we must not only guard
our own local freedom but must also help pre-
serve the local character of agencies with which
we are intimately associated. You all know how
closely our work is connected with that of the.
public school system. In
fact, most of our program
for children, whether it is
an after—school activity or
a summer program entail-
ing playgrounds and camps,
must eventually be taken
over by the public schools,
since two nation-wide sys—
tems for the education of
the child would in the long
run be uneconomic. In all
of our endeavors, especial-
ly on behalf of children
and young people, we are
now in a sense an extension
of the school system, and
our own local autonomy
will soon disappear if the
independence of our educa-
tional system is under-
mined.

In this connection a frank
discussion of the adminis-
tration of the National
Youth Fund is unavoidable
since the apprehensions
which it has aroused are so widespread. Some
months ago announcement was made of the for—
mation of the National Youth Administration
with an allocation of $50,000,000. from work re—
lief funds to be spent within a calendar year in
developing a combined work, education and rec-
reation program on behalf of the unemployed
youth of the country. Such an idea on the face
of it is calculated to gladden the hardest heart,
but a high degree of skepticism was necessarily
aroused when the administration of that fund was
placed, not under the Commissioner of Educa—
tion, but under the already over-burdened Public
\Vorks Administration. Assistant directors have

RECREATION IN OUR PRESENT DEMOCRACY 439

been appointed in every state who report to
\Vashington on the merits of various state plans,
thus setting up the nucleus of a national educa-
tional bureau. In fact, it is no secret at Washing-
ton that several of our ambitious brain-trusters
intend that the National Youth Administration
shall be a preliminary to a new Federal Depart-
ment of Education. That most Boards of Edu-
cation and Recreation have hesitated to ask for
funds in these circumstances is an inevitable re-
sult, for no matter how badly the money may be
needed, the Federal vassalage that its acceptance
will entail is obviously too high a price.

Not only would I like to make the point here
that education is not properly an activity of the
Federal government, but I should like to add an-
other which concerns you almost as much, namely,
that to the extent that the Federal Government
concerns itself with extra-governmental activi-
ties, to that extent the structure of our National
Government must suffer and be confused if not
broken down.

Such Federal controls, once established in the
educational field, are only too certain to be aug-
mented, and the recent decision in Washington
to make the CCC camps permanent is only one
ominous portent of what we may expect. It can-

not be stated too emphatically that educational

freedom will soon be a myth if education is al-
lowed to go on the dole. The administration’s
purposes may be of the purest, but its methods in
assigning the youth funds justify us in suspect-
ing the worst.

Federal control of education and recreation is
one of the most important steps toward fascism
or communism. I know that it is being justified
over here on the basis of specious reports from
Europe. One of the hardest things we recreation

workers have to endure is the enthusiastic talk of ,

returned travelers who have seen armies of young
people doing setting-up exercises in Germany,
Italy or Russia and who thereupon tell us we
ought to do “something big” for recreation over
here! These Americans know nothing, as a rule,
of the hard work that has been going on amongst
us for years to enable our citizens
to enjoy life in their own way. I
wonder whether you feel as re-
sentful as-I do when all that silly
tramp, tramp, tramp is held up
to us for emulation. In these
countries recreation is b e i ng
cleverly used to enslave the mind,

"Let's stop our apologetic. de-
fensive atitude toward our vari-
ous budget makers and demand
that recreation be given the
importance in our educational

scheme to which it has proved
itself to be entitled."

whereas in America we are trying valiantly to use
recreation to free the mind in order that our peo-
ple may find for themselves a new orientation to-
ward a new environment.

What we may very profitably learn from the
communist and fascist regimes is their emphasis
on devotion to the general welfare. From in-
fancy children are taught, in these countries to
place the ideal of community service above that
of private gain. With them, however, such loyalty
is imposed from above, and if we can only make
our own people understand that a sturdier indi-
viduality will emerge from a voluntary interest
in* the public good, our social solidarity will be
infinitely more powerful than theirs. Your un-
selfish devotion to community needs is one of the
finest examples of the modern conception of co-
operative society, and your efforts an immediate
and positive contribution to the soundest line of
our social development.

Any community which loves the free institu-
tions of this country and wishes to preserve them
should be not only willing but anxious to support
a recreati0n program in addition to its regular
provisions for public schools. Under present con-
ditions of enforced leisure or of hard-earned lei-
sure, all opportunities for self-development, for
health and happiness, increase the satisfaction of
our citizens in their own kind of government and
protect them in this period of stress from follow-
ing false social theories.

But aside from this, democracy must fail if it
spends all its efforts, as we are doing now, in sup-
porting the victims of a temporary depression
unless at the same time it affords additional op-
portunity for the increasing development of gen-
eral community needs. So definitely and clearly
is this true that the property owner and taxpayer
who is anxious to stave off fascism or communism
must no longer ask himself “can we afford rec-
reation ?” If he has any insight whatsoever, any
interest in protecting and furthering our demo-
cratic form of government, he must say to him-
self “Can we afford not to have recreation?” In
other words, let’s stop our apologetic, defensive
attitude toward our various local
budget makers and demand that
recreation be given the import-
ance in our educational scheme to
which it has proved itself to be
entitled.

But we have no right to prate of
liberty nor to boast of our leiSUre

( Continued on page 468)

The National Recreation Movement

and the

Federal Government

By HOWARD BRAUCHER

EFORE proceeding with the
B awards I want to say just
a word about a youngman
who used to sit in our Congress
about fifteen or twenty years ago. I had a mes-
sage from Washington this afternoon that he
asked me to give to this Congress. He assures us
that the same traditions, the same ideals that he
had when he sat in our group nearly twenty years
ago, the same traditions and ideals he feels are
associated with this organization, he wants, with
our help, to try to put into the National Youth
Administration in Washington. The only reason
he is not here as he had planned to be is because
of an accident which resulted in several broken
ribs, and he felt that it was not safe for him to
come.

I want to give you the message as he gave it
over the long distance telephone about four
o’clock this afternoon. “I am counting on the
municipal recreation agencies. We in the Na-
tional Youth Administration want to work through
the existing agencies. It is the President’s pur-
pose and my purpose to back the kind of work
you people have been standing for through the
years. I am very sorry I am not to be with you.”

You know I am referring to Aubrey Williams,
the Administrator of the National Youth Admin-
istration, who used to serve in the recreation
movement in Cincinnati years ago.

I ought perhaps to’ say just a word in addition.
It has always been the attitude of the National
Recreation Association to respond to govern—
mental requests—county, state or national. When
the call came during the war time, some twenty-
five hundred workers were mobilized and served
in different places near the camps.

When a call came from Dr. Studebaker, or
from anyone in the government, for conference
in order to make use of the resources of the

440

Secretary

National Recreation Association

national recreation movement,
we have always tried to re-
spond. And so we have given
our material to the Agriculture
Department, the Labor Department, and to a
great many of the departments of the National
Government, and we have hoped that they would
use it without any recognition.

I think, moreover, I ought to say that at the
present time the Board of Directors of the Na—
tional Recreation Association believe that all the
assets that we have ought to be made available to
try to see what can be brought out of the plans
of the National Youth Administration, and Au-
brey Williams has assured me that it is his pur-
pose to try to keep political considerations out of
the Youth Administration as far as it possibly
can be done.

It is not, it seems to me, for the National Board
to go into the details of whether this place or that
place is the right location for any work of the
Government. Rather, we respond when we are
called upon. If President Hoover wished to have
a conference, we placed our resources before him;
President Wilson called, and President Taft, and
each found the resources of the movement were
made available as fast as possible. And so we are
'happy to serve as we can in making any knowl-
edge that is withim the movement available to
Aubrey Williams, just as we would make it avail—
able to the United States Department of Agri—
culture, or any other department of the govern-
ment.

I am hoping we will find it working out better
than some of us might anticipate. I think we have
all recognized, as we have listened to addresses

, here, that in the national recreation movement it

is the purpose to have every point of view
thoroughly represented, and then we have to
choose for ourselves as to the part we will play.

Making Leisure Time Count

By HON. HENRY HORNER

Governor of Illinois

EXTEND to you the hearty welcome of all Illi—
l nois to our state. And I welcome this oppor-

tunity to thank the officers, leaders and work-
ers of your Association throughout the United
States for the magnificent work they are doing in
guiding and directing the men, women and chil-
dren of our country in the art of living that fuller
and happier existence which
builds a stronger and better
American citizenship.

What is that which we
call America? It is not
alone our mountain ranges,
our rolling prairies, our
rivers, our lakes. It is not
alone our factories, our in-
dustries, our commerce. It
is not alone our great cities
or our matchless farms. It
is not alone our schools. our
institutions of learning.

America is life at its best. It is made up of
people whose opportunity it is to live the abun-
dant life. Whether the pulse of our citizenship
shall be able to reach such a standard is dependent
upon what opportunity we give it to do so. The
happiness and ultimate success of the nation de-
pend upon whether it is an erratic or turbulent
pulse crowded with dark fears, narrowness, jeal—
ousy, or whether it is the healthy buoyant rhythm
of a well-ordered life characterized by the proper
balance of work and recreation, understanding,
resourcefulness, and culture.

Although a gainful pursuit is a necessity, man
cannot live by bread alone. What should he do in
his marginal time, the use of which veritably in-
volves his destiny-—the destiny of the nation?

Depending upon the use made of it, leisure can
degrade or elevate. It can reduce working effici-
ency or increase it. It can blast careers or enhance
them. It can break (‘lown health or build it. It

"The sudden acquisition of leisure
would have found us unprepared for
an adequate use of it but for the
forethought of groups and organi-
zations like yours. Definite propos-

als for leisure time have been set
up: the purposes and standards are
becoming known; the organization,
equipment' and techniques are be-
coming widespread, and leadership
in the movement has become vibrant."

 

can impoverish life or enrich it. It can stifle tal-
ents or give them room and air for blossoming.
It can nourish selfish indulgence and lead on to
delinquency and crime, or it can stimulate neigh-
borliness and fine human service. It can cramp
the inner urges or release them for wholesome
creative expression. There probably never has
been a time when people did
not have some leisure, but
no period in the world’s
history has afforded so wide
an extension of leisure as
the present age, especially
in the western world. A
number of factors have
brought this about. One is
the introduction of the ma-
chine which has increased
production and intensified
mobility, thereby extending
leisure. Shortened working
hours with a vacation period and days off for
holidays have become established.

Women, too, have been liberated from drudg-
ery by modern conveniences. The educational
period of childhood has been prolonged. Child
labor laws and compulsory education laws have
freed the child from injurious work.

Today’s organized community recreation has
advanced by gigantic strides from the sand gar-
dens of Boston in 1885. Through successive
stages we have seen advancement and enlargement
from essentially a program for children to a
comprehensive plan affecting adults and the
community. i

No one can justly. deny that the recreation
movement has had pronounced beneficial effects
upon fundamental American, institutions and
upon the life of the American people in general.
People in every walk of life have been affected.
Your Association has the nation’s sincere appre-

441

442 MAKING LEISURE TIME COUNT

ciation for the effective service you have given
during the past few years when the unemploy-
ment problem has absorbed the serious attention
of every government official in the country.
Through occupation of idle hands and right use
of mental faculties 0111‘ unemployed have not lost
spirit in these troublous times. And in the pro-
cess of becoming interested in what we call the
“art of living” they have become happier men and
women, better able to respond to the needs they

face. Your worthwhile work has helped in the

attack upon the very roots of crime by guiding
and directing our younger generation—and for
that matter, our grown p0pulation—-—along lines
that build fine strong characters so occupied with
happy, interesting pursuits that there is less time
for unwholesome thoughts and actions.

\Ve can place the most expensive facilities, the
finest books, the best material in the world at the
disposal of our people, but it takes leadership to
urge them to follow a well chartered course that
has plan and an ultimate benefit for them. The
multiplication of OUr enjoyment in the future de—
pends upon the scope of our interest in and knowl-
edge of the things with which it will be possible
for us to improve our living.

The essential qualities
of- courage, confidence, in-
itiative, self—control, en—
thusiasm, fair play, hon-
esty, loyalty, cooperation
and self-expression, which
are developed by healthful
and intelligently directed
recreation, are necessary
to good citizenship.

To all of you who, by
extending their outlook on
life, are leading the na-
tion’s boys and girls, its
men and women, to new
horizons, it must be a
great personal satisfaction
to know that you have

Many states are increasing:
as is Illinois' the recrea-
tional services represented
in parksI bathing beaches
and similar facilities.

made their tapestries of life more colorful, more
attractive.

The cost of such-a movement is much less than
the cost of neglect. What we do now in this re-
spect is aiding the preservation of American ideals
for the future. You are thus contributing to the
happiness and success of America of today and
tomorrow. Our country has prospered, and it
will prosper more, as the power of its citizens to
enjoy life is increased.

Recreational Opportunities in Illinois

Illinois is seriously concerned with the develop-
ments of its recreational opportunities. We have
approached the subject along' many avenues. I
will not now discuss all the activities of our pro-
gram. W e have provided many breathing spaces
and recreation areas for our citizens and visitors.
During the past two years the available acreage
of our state park system has been more than
doubled and the areas made more attractive and

serviceable to the people.

State parks offer much to all classes of citizens.
T o the city dweller they bring the solace of soli-
tude. Rural people find the pleasure of crowds

(Contimwd on page 469)

Courtesy Department of Forests and IVaters, C ammomvenlth of Pennsylvania

4

 

Recreation and Wholesome Living ._

By
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON

HY DO WE come to you over the radio? Be-
W cause our great desire is to have everybody

know the value of the right kind of recre-
ation, and that this National Recreation Associa-
tion is one of the great channels through which
one can {ind the aid one needs.

It is the subtle combination of work and play,
from the beginning of life, that means recreation.

No matter what our station in life may be, we
should give our children responsibilities in the
home and community, that they may learn so to
love work that they {ind it play.

If we {ind happiness in our work, there is a
certain kind of relaxation in it as Mr. Edison
found, for when we
would urge him to
drop work for some-
thing we t h o u g ht
pleasure, he would
say, “I {ind pleasure
in my work !” So let
us strive to cultivate
play in, work.

\Vork and love—
that is the body and
soul of the human
being. Happy he
where they are one!

The secret is to Find
that satisfying some-
thing. If we are weary
in mind and body,
work is a drag; so if
we turn to a hobby
for change of occupa-
tion we find rest, and
return to our work
with new zest.

Hobbies can be
found in many helds

 

Mrs. Edisonl who is a member
of the Board of Directors at
the National Recreation Asso-
ciationI broadcast this talk over

the N. B. C. network on the
opening night of the Recrea-
tion Congress. Later she re-
peated it before an evening
meeting of the Congress.

 

of interest, such as science, which includes so
many soul—satisfying subjects for the layman.
There we may begin with the heavens in the study
of astronomy; through the air with the birds in
the study of ornithology; to the earth and sea
with their rocks, trees, insects, animals, {ish and
the interesting but
neglected subject, on
account of fear, of
reptiles and the like.
W'e have, too, the ab-
sorbing occupation of
the garden with its
study of the plants,
flowers and landscap-
ing.

Then there are the
arts for self-expres-
sion—~music, with its
group singing and
group playing in the
home as well as in the
community; painting,
(Continued on page 469)

A’nd at every hand are
the varied activities
of the out-ot-doors.

Welcome to the Recreation Congress

By HON. EDWARD J. KELLY
Mayor of Chicago

E ARE MIGHTY happy to have you with us

here in Chicago because we need stimula-

tion. We think. that we are recreation-
minded. We think that we do love the boys and
girls, but there are many things that we have to
learn and we want to get the benefit of your ex-
perience and your advice. We in the Park Dis-
trict did whatever we could toward the develop-
ment of sports and various other recreational
privileges, but we know that other cities are do-
ing just as well and some cities are doing a little
better. We do claim credit of pioneering in pub-
lic golf grounds because the Jackson Park golf
course was the first public golf course in the
United States, and I should hate to count the
number of people who have played there ever
since it was built.

We are proud of Victor Brown because of the
development he has brought about in park district
recreation, especially in the South Park Board be-
fore it became the Chicago Park District which
is now presided over by Mr. Dunham. It is
probably one of the biggest park districts in the
world. We in Chicago have
great faith in Mr. Brown.

tion of father and mother, who are out of work,
they, too, think that the world is practically com—
ing to an end; that there is no possible chance for
work; no possible chance for prosperity. It is
bound to make the boy and girl feel discouraged.
The result is that the young boy may go out and
steal a car and after he has stolen the car he may
hold up somebody. He would probably be ar-
rested, or shot, or become a thief from then on.
I think you people in the parks and recreation
centers do much toward taking that out of his
mind by keeping him busy, by making things
pleasant for him, and that work in itself is going
to do much toward moulding and bringing into
existence in the United States really good citi-
zens. You folks in recreation bureaus and recre-
ation activities should stress even more than you
do now the fact that we have had depressions be-
fore, that we have had hard times, and most of
us didn’t have everything we wanted during those
hard times; but in this great country where we
have confidence in our flag, confidence in our
country, and confidence in our God, that we are
bound to come out all right.

So I would suggest that

He has been with us so
long now that we really
would be lost without him,
and I personally want to
thank him for all the good
work he has done for the
City of Chicago in the way
of developing young minds
and young muscles.

I think there is more to
do at this time than nor-
mally in the recreation pro-
gram for the youngsters of
the country. Most of them
have become discouraged
because when they go home
and listen to the conversa-

444

"In a very special sense Mayor Kelly be—
longs to our group." said Dr. Finley in
introducing him. "Before becoming Mayor
of Chicago he was President of the South
Park Commission and for thirteen years
presided over that great park and recrea-
tion development. Last year Mayor Kelly
attended the Recreation Congress in Wash-
ingtonI and one of the principal reasons
why we are meeting in this city is his
enthusiasm and his very practical help.
From the first conference with him up to
the’ present moment we have had the sup-
port and ready help of his whole adminis-
tration. What he and his associates have
done through the years for park and rec-
reation development has been an inspira-
tion to the whole recreation movement and
we all feel proud to count him one of the
real leaders of the movement in America."

each one here constitute
himself a committee of one
to impress on the young-
sters that the way the tough
kid goes is the bad way:
.that a foundation estab-
lished now is going to last
with him forever; that o'nce
his finger prints are taken
over at the technique
bureau, or his picture is set
up in the rogues’ gallery, it
is going to be mighty dif-
ficult to offset that in his
future life, and it would be
much better for him to de-

(Contimwd on page 470)

Planning the National Forests

for

Greater Recreational Uses

N SOME localities recreation
| was once frowned upon as
an instrument of the devil.
In others, it was tolerated as
a luxury of the idle rich. To-
day it is universally recognized as a necessity that
contributes to the health, happiness, and welfare
of individuals, communities and nations.

Forests play a vital part in meeting today’s rec-
reational needs. They provide rest and relaxation;
return rich dividends in physical health and spirit—
ual and mental well being; so recreate body and
mind that we may tackle, with renewed vigor, our
every-day bread-and—butter tasks. And through
recreation forests make an important economic
contribution as well. For according to the best
available hgures, expenditures for forest recrea-
tion in the United States now reach a total of
some $1,750,000,000 annually!

The National Forests afford an example of the
enormous growth forest recreation has made in
the last two decades. In 1917, the number of peo-
ple who visited or passed through them was three
million. This jumped, in 1934, to 38 million.
Many of these 38 million, it is true, were travelers
who made little or no stop. But more than
13,000,000 deliberately sought—and found—real
recreation. These people occupied summer homes,
hotels, dude ranches, or resorts; they stayed at
municipally operated camps or those managed by
the Y.M.C.A., Boy Scouts, or organizations like
the Kiwanians; they chose camp spots of their
own or stopped at one or more of the 3,000 free
camp grounds equipped with modern convenien-
ces ; they lazed around, hunted, hshed, botanized,
geologized, or traveled roads and trails over tim-
bererl slopes to snow-clad peaks, rushing streams,
or placid mountain lakes.

New Frontiers for Recreation

Despite this remarkable increase in numbers of
visitors, the National Forests are today new fron-

By RICHARD H. RUTLEDGE

Regional Forester
United States Forest Service

tiers for outdoor recreation in
America. For there are 154 of
them. They are located in 37
states, Alaska, and Pu e rto
Rico. Within their boundar-
ies are some 170 odd million acres of federally
owned land. They embrace parts of every moun-
tain .range and every major forest region in the
United States. They are accessible, yet include
Primitive Areas which can be explored only on
foot or with saddle “and pack stock. And every
National Forest resource — recreation as well
as wood, water, forage, and wild life — is,for
use; all are administered by the Department of
Agriculture’s Forest Service under a policy which
insures perpetuation of all resources and assures
the greatest good to the greatest number of people
in the long run.

Planning is necessary to accomplish this. And
all resource plans must be integrated and correlat-
ed one with another; management over broad
areas must be on a system under which the land
as a whole can support its fair share of the coun-
try’s population. This means multiple—purpose
management. For living within and adjacent to
existing National Forests—and dependent for all
or a material part of their competence upon them
-—are already nearly 1,000,000 people. With the
National Forest areas now being acquired in the
East, South, and Lake States, this number may
soon exceed 1,500,000. It is obviously against the
public interest to lock up—under the guise of
single—purpose management—the resources from
which all these people make their living. Nor is
this necessary. For over broad areas, integration
between uses of various and varied resources has
been accomplished for more than thirty years on
mountainous National Forest landsowhich in the
aggregate now exceed the combined areas of Il-
linois, Indiana, Ohio, Iowa and Missouri, with
half of Kansas thrown in. And under multiple-
use management on these broad areas, the million

445

446 PLANNING NATIONAL FORESTS FOR GREATER RECREATIONAL USES

people just mentioned earn all or a part of their
subsistence by regularly harvesting resources such
as timber and forage, the while recreational use
has increased some 300% in less than twenty
years!

This multiple-use principle of land management
requires special treatment in its application to re-
stricted areas, of course. There are, for example,
many spots of rare scenic beauty in the National
Forests; places which afford visitors all they de-
sire in the way of beauty, interest, and inspiration.
These places are not as a rule susceptible of being
combined one with another. They are, instead,
scattered but integral and inseparable parts of
much larger areas.

Recreational Values

Recreational values on the larger areas are de-
finitely secondary to values in-
herent in such resources as tim-
ber, water (for municipal and
other purposes), forage or min-
erals. But on certain smaller
areas—on shores of limpid,
tree-fringed lakes, beside beau—
tifully clear mountain streams,
in fragrant meadows from
which lofty, snow-clad peaks
are visible—recreational values
are often outstanding. On such
areas special treatment—which
approaches single-purpose man-
agement -— is applied. Let me illustrate:

I have in mind a certain lake within the Kani-
ksu National Forest, in Idaho’s panhandle, not far
from the Canadian border. It is accessible over
good roads. One city, with -a p0pulation of some
150,000, is within two hours, drive. Dozens of
towns in northern Idaho, eastern \Vashington,
western Montana, are slightly nearer or farther
away. Their people flock each summer to the
shores of this island-dotted, timber-f ringed,
mountain-ringed lake. And a nearby transcon-
tinental highway brings others from the East, the
Prairie States, the Pacific Coast. For this lake is
a beautiful spot in a country famed for its moun-
tain scenery, its delightful summer weather, its
trout in lake and streams, its deer and other big
game in nearby virgin forests.

Here is an area of recreational value; one which
is obviously needed to help meet local—and other
“recreational requirements. Demands were not
great, nor was this need so obvious, when the first

embraces

" IConservation is wise use.'

That definition,
all of conserva-
tion, whether it be of nat-

ural economic resources for

future production or' of re-
sources for the recreational
use of the people."—Conrad
Wirth in Planning and
Civic Comment, April-
June I935.

 

plan for orderly development of recreation on the
shores of this lake was drawn up by the Forest
Service. For roads were then poor and visitors
scarce. But basic principles were evolved and re-
corded then ; standards and practices, since refined
to anticipate varied conditions and needs, have
steadily been applied through the years.

All this has brought results. National Forest
lands now offer to the recreationist five free pub-
lic picnic and camp grounds with a combined
capacity of some 600 people; summer homesites
which may be occUpied, under permit, at nominal
annual charges; resorts which furnish inexpensive
accommodations by the day, week, or month;
country stores from which the public may pur-
chase such simple necessities as food, clothing,
gas, and oil.

Each camp and picnic ground is equipped with
modern sanitary facilities, out-
door stoves or fireplaces, rus-
tic tables and benches. Each
has its own supply of water——
ample, pure and convenient-—
for domestic purposes. \Vithin
each camp ground are individ-
ual camp “spots” where cars
may be parked and tents or can-
vas shelters pitched. Each of
these “spots” is screened by
natural foliage from its neigh-
bors; each camp and picnic
ground, resort, and store. is
separated and similarly screened from every other
development. And sites for more camp and pic-
nic grounds are held in reserve, undeveloped, to
meet future demands.

Each individual summer homesite is also well
screened from its neighbors on either side. Eighty-
five inexpensive but attractive summer homes
have already been built, and more sites are ready

I beheve,

. as they may be needed. And available to all—pic-

nickers, campers, summer residents and guest
alike—an unmarred shoreline; safe, sandy beaches
a lake some 20 miles in length with secluded bays;
bold points and timbered slopes leading to dis-
tant, white-capped peaks.

But this lake is, after all, only a small part of
the larger forested area that surrounds it. And
other values on the larger area are greater, by far,
than‘are recreational values of the lakes and its
immediate environs. This situation is therefore re-
fiected in all plans which are so correlated that
there shall result for the entire area—of which the

 

PLANNING NATIONAL FORESTS FOR GREATER RECREATIONAL USES 447

lake is a small but inseparable part—the greatest
good to the greatest number of pe0ple in the long
i run.

PreServing Primitive Areas

Public opinion has long been strongly in favor

of preserving primitive conditions in representa-

tive areas which have paramount inspirational
and educational character and significance. And
rightly so, for the sturdy character of the original
American people was enhanced through their
contacts with the forest; clear lakes and rivers
are still conducive to clear thinking and vision. In
deference to the public opinion and demand the
Forest Service initiated, years
ago, the policy of designating
as Primitive Areas certain
sections of some of the Na-
tional Forests.

Under that policy some 67
tracts, aggregating a l m o s t
10,000,000 acres, have already
been administratively set aside.
All these Primitive Areas are
roadless. \Vithin them there
are no hotels or'dude ranches,
no hot dog stands, drug-store
restaurants, or gasoline pumps.
And none will be permitted;
signs of civilization will be
confined to those things neces-
sary to insure adequate fire
protection: to keep the forests
green.

Each Primitive Area has
been carefully chosen. An in—
tegral part of the National
Forest which surrounds it,
each is restricted to territOry
which has inspirational and
educational values. Standards
in this respect can not be so
exacting as those which apply
to the National Parks, of
course. For they—administer-
ed by the National Park Serv—
ice of the Department of In-
terior—are confined to repre-
sentative areas which, super-
latively beautiful, are of
national and international in-
terest and charm. But Primi-
tive Area standards are such

as to delight enthusiastic explorers like the “Trail
Riders of the National Forests,” sponsored by
the American Forestry Association. Each Primi-
tive Area is so managed as to conserve all its
natural values—\vild-life included—through rec-
reational use. And always there is, of course,
that coordination and correlation with other uses
on broader areas which is essential to successful
management of the National Forests.

Serving Governmental Units

Camps developed and managed by city and
county recreation departments also offer examples
of specific, single-purpose treatment applied to

 

C onrtesy M ilwoukee County Regional Planning Department

448 PLANNING NATIONAL FORESTS FOR GREATER RECREATIONAL USES

relatively small areas. There are now many such
camps, including those 0n the Angeles, Cleveland,
and Stanislaus National Forest in California,
operated by the city and the county of Los An-
geles, and the city of Oakland, respectively.

And it is hoped there will be more of them, for
the Forest Service is making a conscious effort
to create and make available such recreational op-
portunities as may be needed by local govern-
mental authorities. This is not to be done by
shifting responsibility for the management of
organized recreation from city, county, or local
political subdivisions. Such an attempt might be
unwelcome; certainly it would be unwise. So the
effort will be—as it has been—merely to make
lands already in Federal ownership available for
additional and supplemental local recreational
uses when the needs for such uses and the char-
acter of the lands make that course clearly in the
public interest. Responsibility for deve10ping
facilities and managing organized activities will
continue to rest with the city, county, or state,
tlirough its recreation department. Naturally so,
for in no other way could development and man—
agement successfully be correlated with local
financial policy or existing local recreational re-
sources and needs.

Areas so used do not pass out of federal own-
ership. Occupancy is under permit, instead. Full
control over the lands remains with the Forest
Service, so that recreational uses may be coor-
dinated with those of other resources over broad
arcas the control of which Congress decided, in
1905, should be vested solely with the Depart-
ment of Agriculture.

As a type, recreation on the National Forests is
simple, democratic, unregimented. Public camp
and picnic grounds——and most resorts and other
facilities—are on an unostentatious, inexpensive
level. There is no National Forest entrance fee;
no charge at public camp grounds developed by
thc Forest Service. And although annual rentals
for individual summer homesites, for which per-
mits are issued, are low, their number, size and
location are restricted. For recreation and recre-
ational facilities for the many take precedence
always over those for the few. Incidental uses—
by people who “drop in” to picnic, camp for a
night or two, Fish. hike, botanize, or hunt with
camcra or gun—are encouraged. And policing is
kept to that minimum which is necessary to assure
safety to public health and public property.

All this may help explain why people have
come to the National Forests, then returned in
ever increasing numbers each year. This type of
recreation is, in any event, the one for which the
Forest Service has provided. Probably this is be-
cause the National Forests are many rather than
few; accessible rather than inaccessible; because
they offer an opportunity to that overwhelming
majority of people which prefers—or for eco-
nomic reasons must find—inexpensive, “come-as-
you-plcase” recreational opportunities. And since,
though the demand is heavy, other opportunities
for simple, unregimented, out-of-door forest rec-
reation on federal reservations are relatively few,
this is the non-competitive type which the Forest
Service must care for in increasing volume on the
National Forests during the years to come.

Indeed, failure to realize. the recreational po-
tentialities of the National Forests and to provide
for increasing demands in face of increasing na-
tional needs, would be a social catastrophe. And
in regions where other economic activities rapidly
are dwindling, failure to develop National Forest
recreational opportunities would be an economic
injustice 'to hundreds of dependent communities;
hundreds of thousands of dependent people.

These circumstances create an obligation to re-
cognize recreation as a definite purpose and serv-
ice of the National Forests. Recognizing the ne-
cessity for territorial integrity in order success-
fully to plan and administer all the many interde-
pendent National Forest resources, Congress has
placed sole responsibility for their development
and administration with the Department of Agri-
culture. Properly to redeem that responsibility
and meet the obligation and the increasing public
demands, the Forests Service has stepped up its
recreational activities; has engaged and is engag-
ing additional adequately trained specialists; has
reviewed principles, standards, and practices; has
extended and brought up to date surveys and in-
ventories of present and future possibilities and
demands; and has revised existing plans and is
making new ones.

It is in these ways—and along lines which have
been indicated—that the Forest Service of the
Dcpartment of Agriculture is planning the Na-
tional Forests for greater recreational uses.

-l

 

The Spirit of Joy

in Athletics

By
GLENN CLARK

ATEACIIER of Creative Writing, I coached

track athletics for twenty years and football

for seven years. Many people have won-
dered why a person who gave time to writing and
to teaching should cling to a hobby like that. Once
I resigned and the boys and the athletic director
brought such pressure upon me to continue that I
kept it up several years longer than my time al-
lowed. But let me tell you of the joy that I got
out there on the field through my very love of
poetry and all things beautiful. There is some-
thing beautiful in putting words into a sentence
in harmony, but there is something more wonder-
ful in seeing a beautiful hurdle race in which the
accent and the meter and the rhythm must all
come out perfectly. The accent must be on every
fifth step, and they can’t stumble. We don’t allow
any poetic license. They have got to get across
there with all that rhythm and all that power. To
me that is a poem. I could go back to a Creative
Writing class with more power after seeing that
rhythm.

You know, too, there is something marvelous in
the rhythm of the brook, the beating of the 'heart,
the exhalation and inspiration of the breath, the
ebb and flow of the tides, the waning and waxing
of the moon, and the coming and going of dawn.
The whole world is full of rhythm. Rhythm is
the law of life, and when we put ourselves back
in the law there is a joy in it.

You who are interested in recreational activity
know how that rhythm is released on the play-
ground more than in the work room. Somehow,
in play it is easy to release rhythm, so that is the
first element of joy on the athletic field. Another

 

Nowhere is rhythm
so easily released
as in play. and
with it comes the
lteen ioy of put-
ting one's whole
self into the game

 

Courtesy The J01ch of Health
and Physica! Education

element of joy is the opportunity to put one’s
whole being, one’s whole self, into what one is do-
ing. In the classroom we sit down and we rest
our bodies and exercise our. minds.

A boy, from the very beginning, from his first
day in school, starts on a pilgrimage to find that
game in which he releases all of his powers. He
tires early of tops and marbles, which only exer-
cise a small part of his capacity. Rather early a
great many red-blooded boys like football. The
only thing that will stop a hole in the line is to
throw the whole being, head and shoulders, all
that you are, right into the line, and when you
tackle another player you leave the ground and
you have to nail the runner with your entire be-'
ing. There is something about the wholeness with
which one puts himself into some of those things
that explains the thrill, the joy, of football.

Then there is something that is a third element
of joy on the athletic field, and that is team work

449

450 THE SPIRIT OF JOY IN ATHLETICS

and'co-ordination. That is where the team games
are ahead of just the individual games, where
folk dancing and activities of that kind in which
you all work in rhythm together are ahead of just
working things out by yourself. A track athlete
running the hurdle race or running the mile run
is something like a sonnet or a lyric poem, but a
football game is a drama. It is something in
which all are working together dramatically to-
wards a given goal. It requires a man with a syn-
thetic type of mind to build up formations on the
run, and there is something quite thrilling, in-
stead of putting words in a line, to place men in a
line where every man has to be in a certain place
and each has a certain functiOn to perform. It
takes an analytical mind to analyze another team’s
play and play a defense, weave your way through
interference and nail your man. That is an ele-
ment of joy to be found in these spOrts.

But I go on to still another element of joy, a
fourth element. In putting all of your being into
a game you find that you have lightened yourself
of some of that surplus ballast that many of us
carry along through life. I have found there is
something about taking off your work suit and
putting on your light track uniform that lightens
you. But there is something else. I found that
boys run better and play better, empty of old
jealousies and prejudices, and run with a certain
clearness of mind. But we need something more.
There are some things we can do, but when it
comes to a contest where you have everything
measured by the two most accurate instruments
that the human mind has devised, the stop watch
and the steel tape—things which will not tell- a
falsehood-—you have got to do a little better than
you ever did before. So it develops in the athlete
something that is like a religion; he leans back on
forces that are bigger than himself. I have found
that joy in contacting these cosmic forces. I don’t
think we have to be conscious about them; we
may just be out on the bare
football field or going into the
old swimming pool. There is
a joy in that release when the
something that is universal in
you goes out and contacts the
universal in nature. That con-
tact with the universal goes
back to the beginning of the
race, the cave man, but to
something deeper than the
cave man.

"In ordinary everyday life." said Otto
MalleryI chairman of the meetingI in
introducing Mr. ClarkI I'he is teacher
of Creative Writing and professor of
English at McAllester College. But on
the side he has a number of tricks up
his sleeve and one of them is the
training of athletes. He will tell us a
few of his stories about the boys he
has trained, and will give us some-
thing ot his philosophy on the power
of joy in athletics."

  
   
    
   
  

A boy came into my room once, a boy who had
appeared at our track, a type of boy somewhat dif-
ferent from the type of boy that I had worked
with on the track field. Having always been asso-
ciated with creative writing, I couldn’t help putting
a little of that spirit into my boys. At times I oc-
casionally would overfiow and tell them a little
bit, usually individually, about that certain qualit
of spirit on the athletic field. This boy came to
me the second year. He didn’t seem to fit. “I
don’t know what is the matter with me. I though
athletes had to be tough and I find the boys tha
do the best work have something about them tha
I didn’t know athletes had before. There is some
thing in me I wish I could get rid of.” I said, “I
don’t know what it is you want to get rid of. I
am not going to ask you to confess a lot of things.
Anything that is bad in you is simply something
good that is in the wrong place. There was an
old lady who kept a garbage can in the kitchen.
She was afraid if she put it out the neighbors who
had pigs and chickens would make use of it. .So

'she kept 'it in the kitchen and it was soon filled.

There was nothing wrongowith the garbage, but
we wouldn’t want it in the kitchen. Do you see
what I am driving at?” “I guess I do.” “Well,
whatever it is that you want to get rid of, sup-
pose we open that window and sweep it out.”

And so without asking what it was we opened
the window and I threw it out and slammed the
window. He took my hand and held on tight. I
can always tell that something is going on in a
person when he holds on. That night I said to
my wife, “I am going up to see the basketball
game. we have a poor team and they are going
to play the champions of the state, but I should
love to watch the rhythm of it.” I went up to the
game and to my surprise I saw the boy who had
been in my room that afternoon down there on
our team. Down ‘tlle fioor came the opposing
team, those wonderful all-state champions, and
this lad ran into the center, in-
terfered and dribbled down the
field with perfect rhythm and
made a basket. He made twen-
ty-three points single-handed
and the other team made
twenty-one.

That spring some of the
boys said they had never seen _.
anybody change in three
months as Ray had. They
elected him captain of the

THE SPIRIT OF JOY IN ATHLETICS 451

 

Courtesy The Journal of Health and Physica! Education

track team and he became an all—round athlete, and
all-state football player. When he came to graduate
it was said that he was one of the toughest fellows
that ever came into the college and one of the fin-
est fellows that ever graduated; to look him in the
face when you passed him in the hall made a
whole day go straight. When he came to gradu-
ate he came to my ofiice and he said, “Something
was taken off me when I came into this room
some years ago. My friendships went better, my
studies went better, my athletics went better.”
And he added, and I have never forgotten his
words, “But there was a big barn to clean.”

I went down to the University of Wisconsin.
Coach Jones had liked the spirit of the McAlles-
ter boys down at the Drake relays and wanted
me to tell certain secrets. 1 opened up and told
of the joy of rhythm, lightening yourself, about
running for the joy :of it and the love of your
fellow men. Don’t run for yourself but run for
the love of your teammates and for the joy of
running. A young chap there, slightly bow-leg-
ged, grabbed me by the hand, “I want to get like
that. 1 want to get like that fellow, Ray,” he said‘.
I went home and read in the paper a few weeks
later that the Big Ten meet was to be held and
that the championship would lie within Ohio,
Illinois, and Iowa. The next day I read that Wis-
consin had run away with the meet, led by the
little bow-legged chap. They couldn’t stOp him.
I have had this experience of seeing that joy
working out so marvelously in athletics and I also
feel that it applies to other fields.

I want to make this digression. My father was
in the insurance business. He was president of a
fire insurance company of Des Moines. Three
different companies that he went into doubled
their business within a year after he went into
them and his secret was getting his agents into
the spirit of a harmonious, happy family.

On one occasion our football team was going
to play a great Catholic institution with a tre-
mendous team. It was a night game and the pre-
diction was we would be defeated forty to noth-
ing. The boys came into my room that morning
and when I asked them what they came for they
said, “We are all afraid, and we would like to
have you talk to us.” I went to the electric light
and pressed the button and then turned it off
again. “You see there is a connection here, but
there is a little open place and when I turn the
switch it closes that. Once the Governor of Min-
nesota was trying to get a message up to Duluth
by telephone at a certain hour and a great storm
snapped the wire. They sent out a big Swedish
lineman to fix it. The wire was too short to join.
Knowing the hour when the Governor was to
speak, he stood with one end of the wire in each
hand and closed the gap himself ; he let that mes-
sage fiow through him and lived to tell the tale.
Now, fellows, every one of you press yourselves
into the gap and close that circuit. Let each fel-
low forget himself and play for the team.” And
then I said, “If somebody has faith in such a
thing as another power greater than himself, per-

( Continued on page 470)

 

What the Schools Can Do to Prepare Children

By
DR. J. W. STUDEBAKER

U. 5. Commissioner of Education

able, for a school man to make public utter-

ance 0n the subject of recreation in connection
with education. OUr public schools are, in
large part, an inheritance of our Puritan fore-
bears, and the word recreation hardly had a
place in their vocabulary. Education was a
serious business conducted in the “interest of
piety and learning,” and going to school was
a strenuous undertaking. Eight years before
the Mayflower sailed, the Reverend John
Brinsley, pastor and pedagogue, had the te-
n1erity to isuggest that children be given a
fifteen-minute recess from study in the middle
of the morning session, which session began
at six and lasted until twelve, and another
similar breathing spell in the afternoon ses-
sion which was also of five hours duration.
Brinsley’s suggestion was looked upon with
favor by some of his more human and hu-
mane contemporaries, but there were others
who complained bitterly that in adopting the
recess periods “such schools do nothing but
encourage play.”

Two and a half centuries later I am asked
and expected to say something from this plat-
form not merely in passive encouragement of
play but on what the schools may do actively
to prepare children for play, for play and rec-
reation are much the same thing. At any

rate, we are recreated by some form of ap—
propriate play.

IT HAS NOT always been advisable, or even think-

The School Recess a Peril

But is was not merely the
Puritan pedagogues of the
17th century who were op—
posed to any encouragement
of play in connection with ed—
ucation. It is only fifty years
since thenschool recess was in

452

Delegates at the Recreation Con-
gress at,Chicago enioyed a glimpse
of the progress made in school
recreation from the time when a
titteen-minute recess was looked
upon as an evil to be abolished it
schools were to do anything ex-
cept "encourage play!"

. for the
New Frontiers

In

Recreation

danger-of its existence. In 1883 so august a
body as the National Council of Education ap-
pointed a committee to investigate and report
to the Council on the question of whether the
recess period should or should not be abol-
ished. The report began by stating that “the .
practice of dispensing with recess during the
daily sessions of school is increasing. . . . The —
advocates of such abolition claim: (I) That
this will conserve the health of the pupils by
preventing exposure to weather. (2) It will
tend to refinement by removing the opportuni-
ties for rude and boisterous play. (3) It will
take away the opportunity for association with
the vicious, and consequent corruption of mo-

rals; and (4) It will relieve teachers of a dis-
agreeable duty and lighten their labors.”

Here were accusations of play which the Pil-
grim Fathers might have uttered but which,
prior to the last quarter of the 19th century,
few teachers would have considered. Before
that time the recess, or rather, what went on
during the recess, had taken care of itself. It
was managed by the pupils and managed well.
Something had occurred to upset the normal
state of school-playground society, especially
in large communities, for it was only in cities

that the recess was "being

done away with. You know
what was happening. Cities
were increasing in size; their
populations were becoming
heterogeneous; t h e y were

building larger schools but,
unfortunately, they were not .
providing playgrounds of c0r-

WHAT THE SCHOOLS CAN DO TO PREPARE FOR NEW FRONTIERS 453

responding size, for city lots were growing val—
uable and somehow space for play did not
seem worth the needed expenditure. In a word,
a horde of children of miscellaneous origin was
let loose at recess—a company which, from its
very size and consistency was no longer self-
organizing and self—regulatory in its activities
even if ample room and facilities for play had
been provided. Moreover, for various reasons
the children were fast losing the very tradi-
tions of normal play. It is little wonder that
the teachers wanted to be relieved of the dis—
agreeable duty of trying to maintain order, for
they were themselves seldom interested in play
and could not appreciate a solution of the situ-
ation other than that of doing away with it.

School men of the day saw nothing in play
worth encouraging or preserving. They were,
however, attempting to preserve and promote
muscular exercise as a means of discipline and
for purposes of counteracting the physiological
effects of school room confinement. In fact,
they were substituting classroom gymnastics
for the out—of—door activities of recess. But
schoolroom gymnastics were not play nor were
they associated with the idea of play. Play in—
volves emotional activity with all the bodily
changes which emotional stimulus brings
about. The gymnastic exercises of the class-
room were doubtless of some help in altering
the circulation of the blood and for resting
overused muscles, but the nervous and emo-
tional tension of the well-disciplined class of
that day was not relieved. The entire child
needed a change———not merely his lungs or his
legs.

This was “physical training,” but physical
trainers were not concerned with such common
activities as took place on the playground.
Schools were preparing for life and life was for
work. Factories blew their whistles for begin-
ning work at 7 a. m. and for quitting work at
6 p. m.; stores Opened at 7 and closed at 9.

But social change had come and this was
acutely evident on the school ground and at
recess. The recess period was troubling school
men as it never had done before, and the easy

way out of the trouble seemed to be to abolish
the recess.

A Happy Change of Attitude

You know the change of attitude of educa-
tors toward play which has come about in a

quarter of a century. The activities of the
playground have been included as foundation
stones in the art of physical education and they
are now recognized as important means of

training in mutual understanding and cooper-
ation.

' A community has gone a long way when it
passes a law requiring or even permitting an
outlay of public funds for recreation, and yet
37 of our states now have laws requiring our
schools to provide facilities and instruction in
physical education and, as we have already
noted, physical education now includes prep-
aration for and participation in r'ecreation. In—
deed, two of our states have published courses
of study in this field which bear the title of a
Course of Study in Recreation. But some states
have gone still farther in this field of legisla-
tion, as witness such a law as that of Michigan
which permits any school district to “operate
a system of public recreation and playgrounds;
acquire, equip, and maintain land, buildings,
or other recreational facilities; employ a super-
intendent of recreation,” etc.; or that of Colo-
rado, which empowers any school district to

operate a system of public recreation and
playgrounds and to vote a tax to provide

funds for such Operation. What would our
Puritan forebears have thought of such doings
in the way of statute making?

Not all play is truly recreative in the larger
sense. This is. especially true where the ele-
ment of rivalry and competition enter in. It
is easy to be ruled by the desire of winning at
all costs rather than by the spirit of friendly
recognition of the ability of others. It is here
that the physical director rises to the occasion
and becomes a real educator. It is his high
office to make the most of the play situation
for cultivating in his pupils an appreciation of
sportsmanship with all that that word con-
notes. Games and athletics may improve char-

. acter or lead to better citizenship or they may

not. It all depends4and in public schools, it
depends very much on the teacher of physical
education and on his ideals of character and
citizenship. Fortunately we are preparing
splendid teachers of physical education in our
training schools, and our states are making

appropriate requirements for the certification
of such teachers.

454 WHAT THE SCHOOLS CAN DO TO PREPARE FOR NEW FRONTIERS

The schools are providing children with a
place to play; they are teaching them how to
play, and how to play fair, and to this end they
are furnishing that' supervision of play made so
imperative by the social changes already men-
tioned. Many of our states set minimum limits
in areas of playgrounds, and opportunity for
and.guidance in play is often provided after
school and on Saturdays. Moreover, the fence
between school and community is being torn

down and the school and community play-
ground systems are being fused. The director

of physical education of the school often
becomes the director of recreation of the com-
munity. The school reaches into the out-of-
school life of the child and the school play-
ground is returning to what it was a half cen-
tury ago, a place of recreative activity, morn-
ing, noon, and night and at recess. Play has
been called “the life of the
child” and under the manage-
ment of the school we would
give each child a chance to
live his life to the full.

I have spoken of the laws
which permit this fusion of
school and community for
recreation. A very significant
straw, which shows how
strongly the wind blows, is
the appointment on the staff
of at least one of our state
departments of education of an official with the
title, Supervisor of Physical Education and Rec-
reation. That such an officer is employed, means
that physical education and recreation are one
so far as the schools of that state are concerned,
and whether the activities developed are carried
on in school hours or at other seasons. The man-
agement of after-school, or out—of—school play,
seems to be accepted in many quarters as a re—
sponsibility of the school.

Where the school authorities do not have
charge of the recreational activities of the com-
munity there should be close sympathy and

understanding between. those who manage
such activities in and out of school hours.

There must be no conflict and no friction, but
mutual helpfulness, if the recreational life of

the community is to be fully served.

Physical Recreation Not Enough

So much for those activities of mind and

"Here then is the task of the new
school in the new day: provision
of a life-long program in educa-
tion through which not only boys
and girls' but men and women

have at least the opportunity' an
equitable opportunityl fully and
completely to find themselves."

—John W. Studebaker.

 

body which we call physical, which are so vastly
important in the life of the child and are valuable
for active or passive participation in later
years. The Oxford dictionary defines recrea-
tion as “the action of recreation, or fact of
being recreated by some pleasant occupation,
pastime or amusement,” and fortunately life
yields other occupations, pastimes and amuse-
ments besides vaulting a bar or watching a ball
game. In this dictionary the first illustration
of the use of the word, “recreation,” dates back to

‘ 1477 and is the admonition “for recreation, read

!!

some good history. Now. a person who finds
the reading of a history a “pleasant occupation,
pastime or amusement” has to know how to
read.

In 1477 the ability to read, whether it were
of history or of the sporting page (had there
been one to read in those days) was confined
to the few. In our public
schools we open the vast
playground of literature to
every child whether it be in
the realm of prose or po-
etry, of history or romance.
We not only give pupils
admittance to this wonder-
ful realm of recreation, but
we coach them in the pos-
sibilities of play a l o n g
these lines. We introduce
them also to the limitless
fields of science in which they may become
active performers as well as enthusiastic fans.
Who, but a very small circle, would ever have
heard of Joseph Priestly, the clergyman, but
the world knows the Priestly who played with
test tubes and chemicals; Benjamin Franklin,
printer, was lost to memory long ago, but Ben-
jamin Franklin, kite-Hyer, is not forgotten;
Lewis Carroll, teacher of mathematics, is dead
and buried, but Lewis Carroll, playing with
Alice and the other inhabitants of Wonderland,
is very much alive. The recreative activities
of Priestly, Franklin, Carroll, and many others,
have broadened life and living for all, materi-
ally and spiritually, and the play of these men
was made possible by education.

Our schools are, haltingly perhaps, but sure-
ly, opening t’o the child the delightful recrea- f
tional fields of art and of music, whether it be
as appreciative onlooker upon the product of

professional producers, or as active partici-

W'HAT THE SCHOOLS CAN DO TO PREPARE FOR NEW FRONTIERS 455

pant in the greater joys of amateur perform--
ance with brush and pigments, with violin or
with voice. ‘

In the inertia which accompanies education
we are apt to overlook the fact that the activi-
ties we call recreational may be as important
for the child as those we consider work. The
child with abilities in art and music may have
his development curtailed by too much insis-
tence upon what we have long considered as
“more fundamental” subjects. We should re~
member that great artists and musicians have
been highly educated persons even though they
knew little of algebra and less of Latin. The
school was not allowed to interfere with the
unfolding of their genius. It is very significant
that passive enjoyment of the better things of
art is being developed through instructional
visits to art museums, while the phonograph
.and radio are widely used for interesting the
. child in the best products in the field of music.

It is more significant that New York City is
setting an example in the deve10pment of a
“‘high school of art and music” in which stu-
dents with talents along these lines may pur~
sue those studies which we like to call “regu-
_lar” and at the same time have an opportunity
for education along lines in which recreation
.and work are one and the same thing.

The Schools Have a Large Responsibility .

The schools have not been preparing their
pupils for new frontiers in recreation. They have
"been making and broadening those frontiers. They
have been, and are, preparing for the better use
of the leisure which we are to have in larger mea-
sure than was,formerly known.

Just at present too much leisure time has
'been thrust upon our students as they leave
school, for all play and no work is a misfor-
tune, but this superabundant leisure furnishes
opportunity for development of the interests
which have been aroused and sharpened by the
public school.

We in the Office of Education have been
greatly concerned with, this group of the, as
yet, unemployed, and in the possibilities of
improving their opportunities fOr living and
for making a living._ Through a special grant
of funds from the General Education Board
"we have been able to carry on a study of the
needs of unemployed youth in a representative
selection of communities along lines of occu-
'pation, education and recreation. We have

been studying the various attempts which have
been made to meet the situatiOn, with the aim
of presenting the best possible procedures. We
hope to promote the development of appropri-
ate services for youth under state and local
departments of education. There is no new
problem here except to extend activities which
have ended with graduation ,from high school
to those young pe0ple who are not taken care
of by industry, by colleges, by CCC camps,
and other agencies. We are dealing again not
with frontiers of recreation but with frontiers of
leisure time.

But adults also face these frontiers of leisure
and many of them are ill prepared for it, for
their schooling dates back to an earlier and
more work-a-day world. Adult education is
far from complete if it prepares only for mak-
ing a‘ living.

Life is rather barren without play of body
or of mind. In the motion picture and the
radio we have powerful means not only for
passing our time but for education for the
better use of that time. The leisure of the adult
cannot be better spent than in the study of, and
active participation in, the great game of pub-
lic life which is staged without gate fees be-
fore our eyes every day. In comparison, a
game of golf or of football is simple and tame
and lacking in importance.

In preparing, then, for the larger life which
growing leisure affords, our schools need to
realize the values of play. Whether we call it
physical or mental it is part 'of life and involves
psychic as well as physiologic processes, and
its implications may extend to social relations.
The needs of each age must be appropriately
met, for the needs of children in the first
grades differ from those in the grades above,
and the needs of the adult are not quite those
of youth. We talk much of carry-over values
in education but this applies.only to a limited
extent. Fundamental training and memories
may be built upon, but the recreational super-
structure of later life is something different.

We need to furnish opportunity for play.
We need teachers not only of physical educa-
tion but of all education who can lead the child
to appreciate what is best and to accomplish,
according to his talents, what is best. We need
to extend these efforts to the expansion of the
recreational horizons of youth and of adults.

The social changes which have so widened

(Continued on page 471)

ll

Now That Winter’s Come!

people are taking up

skating for winter
recreation that many new
areas are needed for this
sport in every section. 53W-
Park recreational areas
or private enterprises that have
ponds or lakes to use for skat—
ing are in the best position for
a long season. Pond ice can be
used in the early and late winter, which in \Vest-
ern Massachusetts starts around the middle of
December and runs until the middle of March in
normal winters. Last year in Springfield there
were 63 skating days or over two months of the
three months’ season. This is a sport, therefore,
that is worth providing for. It offers more hours
of recreation in a small place for a greater num‘-
ber of people than any other winter sport.

On ice built up on land prepared for the pur-
pose the season cannot be as long, the reason be-
ing that four to six inches of frost in the ground
are required before starting to make ice, and this
requires several days
of freezing weather in
the early season, and
in the late season the
snow melts through
ice on land much more
quickly than it does
the thicker ice over
the water. It is pos-
sible, however, to have
45 or 50 days of skat-
ing on ice artificially
prepared where there
are no ponds available.

Facilities

For areas where
there are ponds, or in
such cases w h e r e
ponds or lakes are to
be built, it is necessary
to select a space that
will meet the follow-
ing requirements:

456

So MANY thousands of

Courtesy Hiram College

To get the maximum amount of use
and enioyment out of your skating
season careful planning is neces-
Here are some suggestions

By
HAROLD L. DAVENPORT

 

1. House for skaters’ use
and for storing equip-
ment

2. Lighting of house and
skating area

3. Banks on two sides
with a gentle slope

4. \Vater sUpply for flooding
the ice
House. It is essential to have

a location where a portable

house or shelter can be erected at the edge of the

pond for storing working equipment. A room
should be set aside with several benches for chang-
ing skates. with a corner screened in by wire with
shelves for checking shoes. There should also be

room for a hot dog and coffee concession and a

sizable round, heavy iron stove for heating in the

center. For the use of the skaters a runway
should be constructed from the house to the ice
surface.

Lighting. Lighting for night skating should be
planned, as this will double the number of skat-
ing hours. Skating for many people is not pos-

sible during the win-

ter daylight hours, but
with lighted areas any
night that is not stormy
is made available in
otherwise extremely
dark sections, sin c e
ponds are often in the

' gullies. Flood lights

with 1500 watt bulbs
can be set on poles on
the shore of a pond.
Each one of these will
light about 20,000
square feet of skating
surface.

Banks. Banks should
be graded so the early
winter snows can be
pushed entirely off the
ice, as the weight of
the snow causes water
to come up around the

NOW THAT WINTER’S COME .r 457

edges, and if left on the ice it
eventually cuts down the skat-
ing area. This water will re-
main about the edges for several
days and is therefore a contin-
ual nuisance.

Where the banks around the
pond are steep, the snow must
be removed some 50 feet be—
y011d the edge of the skating area planned, as the
ice within that 50 foot area will be covered with
water and will be useless. A roadway must be
planned for down to the ice surface so that trucks
may be conveniently driven onto the ice.

Water Supply. The water supply should either
be piped water that will supply a 2” hose or a
gasoline pump. A shut—off valve should be below
the frost line in boxes about 4 feet square, well
packed with manure to prevent freezing. If there
is no water supply possible, a gasoline pump that
will supply a 2” hose or fire hose will serve
equally well. If a pump of this sort is used, a 2”
bit for boring a hole in the ice can be obtained,
and the pump supply pipe put down through the
ice in such a hole drilled in any section of the
pond or in several sections, so that a shorter length
-of hose may be used for flooding purposes. Pumps
of this character can be bought that will SUpply
from ten to twenty thousand gallons an hour.

\Varning! Do not use anything smaller than a 2”
hose; a 2%” hose is better, with a gasoline pump,
.as the resistance caused with a I” hose in a couple
of hundred feet is so great as to cut down the
flow to such an extent that a much longer time
will be required for flooding. A 2%” hose will
give practically the full capacity of the pump.
The hose must be kept in a warm place or the
water remaining in it will freeze. It must not be
laid down on the ice when the pump is not run~
ning. The pond water is very close to the freez-
ing point, and when left a minute or two will
freeze so that the hose is useless until thawed out.

Artificial Skating Areas

Skating areas may be made on reasonably level
land. tennis courts or any section that will hold
water. The land must have a clay base or gravel
over clay or a foundation that can be readily
frozen. Sand will not freeze solidly enough to
hold through the season, and should not be used
under any circumstances. A swampy section or
one where a small brook may be dammed is very
good.

Through the courtesy of Harold
M. C-‘zorel Secretary of the West-
ern Massachusetts Winter Sports
Committee. we have been permit-
ted to reprint this article on
skating facilities and the care of
ice. which was originally issued

as Bulletin No. 63 of the Com-

mittee's series of bulletins.

In making ice on a suitable
foundation, it is necessary to
flow the water from the open
end of a hose, starting in the
section opposite the water sup-
ply and working back fast
enough so that the water will
not stand on the ground and
flow. It is well to wait until the
ground has several inches of frost, and care must
be taken that the first water put on is a very thin
sheet and freezes quickly on the surface of the
ground. Any standing water will melt the frost
and seep away, causing air holes that are difiicult
to fill. A temperature of around 20° above zero
or lower is best for starting an artificial rink.

\Vhen this first flooding is entirely frozen, a
second and repeated floodings may be continued
throughout the cold spell until two to four inches
of ice are made. Six inches of ice are preferable
to holcl frost enough so that the ice surface will
remain hard when the temperature goes above
freezing in the sunny part of the day.

On land that is not level, the low parts must be
carefully filled and frozen first, since the‘water
will run to this section and, being so much warmer
than the frost, will melt it out, and will prevent
the making of ice until it is thoroughly frozen
again.

The reason a battery of tennis courts is so often
used is that the surface has a very slight grade
and is flat so the water can be spread evenly and
quickly. Another important feature is that the
work done in building the tennis courts serves
both summer and winter use, giving at least nine
or ten months’ enjoyment out of the twelve. Ten-
nis courts, moreover, are usually made with a clay
base and in some instances asphalt, both of which
are well suited for ice making.

Care of the Ice

For scraping snow from larger areas, a Ford
truck weighted down with a ton of sand should
be used, with a snow scraper attached to the front.
This scraper ought to be of the type with a swing—
ing center section so as to be easily drawn back
without accumulating any snow. Such a truck can
push a large amount of snow in a short time and
can be easily handled. Several such trucks can be
used at the same time. After trucks have scraped
in this manner, hand scrapers should be made
with a board about 3 feet long and 6 or 8_inches
high, with a one inch scraping blade attached to

 

458 NOW THAT WINTER’S COME!

the front side and an 8 foot round handle at-
tached to the back side so that the board will slant
backward when in scraping position. Several of
these scrapers should be used, with the men start-
ing at one side of a pond and going all the way
across, scraping the fine snow left by the truck
scrapers.

In large areas a truck with a rotary power
brush attached to it may be used instead of hand
scrapers. In smaller areas where there are hockey
rinks, Fordson or Worthington tractors with rub-
ber tires may be used in place of trucks, as they can
be more easily handled in small areas. They will
not, however, remove as much snow at one time
and cannot move as deep snow as the Ford trucks
loaded down with sand. The Ford truck-s are also
much faster. On hockey rinks it is necessary to
handscrape the corners and shovel the snow out
unless the ends are made so that sections can be
removed and a truck driven straight through the
Open section. I

A heavy duty ice planer which is pulled behind
a truck is necessary so that when the ice is cut
up by skaters or is rough because of weather con-
ditions, from %” to %” of the surface can be
planéd off, leaving the surface smooth. On pond
ice it,is often much cheaper to plane than to flood.
On the other hand, there are times when so much
planing would be necessary that flooding would
be advisable. Consequently both kinds of equip-
ment should be at hand.

On artificial ponds it is better to flood, as thick
ice will resist the heat better. On pond ice in the
late winter there is often not enough frost in the
ice to freeze solid the water put on by flooding,
and during this late season the surface can be
smoothed much better by planing. It often hap-
pens that the ice surface melts on a hot after-
noon in late February or early March, and that
the honeycombed surface can be planed off as
soon as the sun goes down, leaving solid ice to
be used by the skaters at night.

For hockey rinks it is necessary to have a
couple of dozen of mill brooms as the players cut
up so much ice in fine chips that it must be swept
off. The scrapers will not remove it all, and the
game requires smooth ice. Before the hockey rink
is flooded it should always be swept, as the small
snow particles will freeze more quickly and leave
a very rough surface. A very light flooding is all
that is spread on the ice for hockey.

The time to work is when the weather requires
it. Due to the. variable weather conditions, officials

in charge of the care of the ice have found by ex-
perience that the work must be done with the
change of weather, regardless of the time of day
or night. Those who take their own time to do
the work will cause more expense, will often find
it impossible to work for several days because the
weather has got ahead of them and, therefore, will
be responsible for losing many days of skating
that the public could enjoy. '

Snow must be removed immediater after the
storm finishes, and with the proper judgment can
be partially removed during a storm. If a storm
stops during the night the ice may be worked on
early the next morning, but if the storm ends in
the early part of the day the ice should receive
immediate attention that day. When several inches
of snow remain on the ice for more than ten or
twelve hours, the weight of the snow will cause
the ice to sink and water to come up, making it
impossible for trucks to move the snow which is
wet underneath. The pond will then have to wait
until the water saturates all of the snow which
takes many days. The worst feature of this con-
dition is that several inches of snow ice will be on
top of the hard black ice, and snow ice melts with
the least amount of heat and is a very poor sur-
face for skating. The black ice should and can be
maintained from the beginning of the season to
the end, both to make the work of cleaning as in-
expensive as possible and to offer the greatest
amount of skating time. Black ice will stand
temperatures up to 40° for some hours without
becoming soft on the surface. It is evident. there—
fore, that the snow must be kept of continually.

In any section of the ice where snow is left for
twenty-four hours, it will be wet on the bottom
and freeze to such an extent that it cannot be
completely removed. So under no circumstan-
ces should snow ever be piled in the middle or on
any part of the skating area. It should always be
pushed to one side or the other, leaving the skat-
ing area clear. It does not matter how thick the
ice may be on a pond, several inches of snow will
weight it down so that water comes up. This
makes it necessary for snow clearing organiza—
tions to prepare their work to begin the day the
storm ends or the following day at the latest.

A fall of snow up to ten inches or thereabouts
can be, cleared with Ford trucks by pushing short
sections to the side at one time. Such heavy falls
do not usually come until the middle of winter,
and if it is not possible to push this snow onto the

(Continued on page 472)

The Dust Problem on the Playground

HE NEED

f o r a d e—

quate play-
grounds to take
care of chil-
dren during
their play periods and for the
[recreation of their elders has
been recognized and is now re-
ceiving the earnest attention of
prOgressive municipalities.
Grants of funds have been made by governing
bodies to this phase of community development,
and such action on their part has been matched

by liberal gifts of ground and funds by public-

spirited citizens.

Some of the Problems

As the program for recreation has developed
many problems have arisen. Some of these have
been of the “must”
type, requiring solu-
tion in order that the

Have you succeeded in conquering that annoying
problem ot dust on your playgrounds? A recre-
ation executive tells us how he has solved it.

By LOUIS C. SCHROEDER
Superintendent of Recreation
Pittsburgh. Pa.

Photograph of the Horace Mann School Playground
taken six months after one application of Sani-Soil-Set

program might
proceed. Others
are of the “an—
noyance” type,
more or less
severe, depend-
ing upon the weather or season,
surrounding conditions, or the
nature of the playground itself.
The tendency in the second class
of problems is to hope for the
best and permit these conditions to go on from
year to year with partial remedies to ameliorate
conditions rather than to take them in hand for
proper solution.

One problem of the second class is the dust
problem common to all but hard—surfaced
grounds. If it would be feasible to maintain grass
surfaces on playgrounds this would be an easy
solution. Experience has shown this is not pos—
sible and recreation
authorities agree that
the used surfaces of

 

459

'f -

460 THE DUST PROBLEM ON THE PLAYGROUND

playground s h o u l d be
clear of plant life and
that the dust problem
must be solved with this
type of surface in mind.

,This problem of dust
is important to everyone
interested in recreation
activities. Playgrounds
to be of most value must
be located close to the
public they serve. It is
well known that very
often a proposed play—-
ground is objected to by
some adjacent neighbors
who claim that they are
a source of annoyance
and that the value of
their property would be materially reduced. Much
of this annoyance and decreased property value
can be laid directly to the dust arising from the
playground, and when one has observed the clouds
arising and drifting over adjacent areas in windy
weather, he can only agree that the objections
have real basis in fact. .

Another indictment of the dust evil is based
on health considerations, particularly from the
standpoint of those using the grounds. Are we
doing the right thing to encourage the assembling
of people for recreation purposes and then ex-
pose them to the hazards of disease from dust-
laden air? Of interest along this same line are the
present strenuous efforts of manufacturers in cer-
tain lines, encouraged by state governments and
insurance companies, to improve dust conditions
in their plants in order to prevent disease.

Dust is destructive to clothing, not only that
worn by those on the playground but also, that of
Spectators and passers-by. It is particularly dam-
aging to the Monday morning wash and the com-
plaints from this source alone form 'a driving in-
centive for the solution of this problem.

The dust problem in Pittsburgh and environs
is in all probability more severe on account of the
nature of the city’s industries than‘it is in most
other communities. It is prevalent in all. how-
ever, and a satisfactory 'solution has been much
desired but not much has been done about it. Cal-
cium chloride has been used in many places to
allay dust. This salt possesses the property of
attracting moisture and is effective until it loses
this property, the period of its effectiveness. de-

 

af _

The sprinkler truck which distributes

the preparation over the surface plays
a very important part in the process

pending upon atmOSpheric conditions. It has long
been known that petroleum tars and asphaltic
materials possess desirable dust arresting and
water-proofing qualities for dirt roads. Such
products, however, are obviously unsuitable for
application to playgrounds.

Advantages Noted

Early this summer the writer conceived the idea
that this field offered an opportunity for the in-
vestigation and development of a more effective
dust arresting material for playgrounds, and ap-
proached the Gulf Refining Company’s research
engineers. He learned that extensive research was
being carried out in the laboratories,‘ as well as
practical demonstration on a school playground
operated by the Board of Education. The appli-
cation of Sani-Soil-Set to this playground had
been made some two months previous. An in-
spection of the ground by the writer disclosed the
following:

I. The surface had a dark appearance with no
dust apparent. School attendant reported none
had been noticed since treatment.

2. Permanency was shown by the fact that the
appearance of the field had not changed. Ob-
servations since that time have confirmed this
evidence and have indicated that the effect of
the treatment will be cumulative: that is, the -'
benefit will extend to next year when a lighter
application will be effective.

(Continued on page 472)

Some Joys and
Problems

By

MARY PRICE ROBERTS
Grand Island. Nebraska

F COURSE everyone has
0 enjoyed pictures of old-
time carolers, in high
stockings and puffed breeches
and pointed-toed shoes, stand-
ing beneath balcony windows
strumming guitars. Why did
they do that when the manor
house nreplace held a huge
yule log and food and good ale
were dispensed freely by the
lord of the manor? And who
decided which persons should
sit inside and look out and
which should stand outside and sing in? I wonder
if the singers were poor artists who spread Christ-
1n'as cheer for the sake of coins thrown from that
balcony window. But if they were, I doubt whe-
ther their legs would be as plump and round as
the pictures pretend. Surely some would have
had knobby knees and thin, drawn faces! Some—
times I wonder if they were just people who liked
to sing and had to sing and made the best of their
chances at Christmas when competition was low
because their rivals preferred to sit inside and en-
joy the yule log, the ale, and the plum pudding!
You’d wonder about these things, too, if you‘d
ever tried to carol at Christmas time. It seemed
such a beautiful old custom that our girls’ clubs
thought we’d try it. .
we didn’t have time to learn the carols, so one
of the leaders had copies made. But alas! the
words couldn’t be read in the dark, and only three
or four had flashlights. We began to understand

 

Photo by L'. 5. Forest Service

of Christmas

Carolers

Let no one think that a
Christmas Caroling pro-

gram runs itself! But
it’s worth the effort!

why the old carolers sang by
a lamp post, but-then we hap-
pened to think that they never
held copies of the songs. Per-
haps they stood there so people
could see their fancy costumes.
\V'ell, we didn't have any fancy
costumes. How can you be
picturesque when the ther-
mometer is around zero and
there’s a foot of snow on the

A mupicipal Christmas ground?
tree In San Francisco

Anyway. we caroled. We
had a long list of shut-ins—
old people, sick 'people, and others. Grandma
Guest begged us to come in because she couldn’t
hear well. We sang, and then she told us “long
ago” stories. “\Vell, naow, you see, when I was a
gerul I ust ta go ta singin’ school.” There were
details about driving to the school and about the
“singin’ book” with triangular notes. The old
lady enjoyed the memory of that Christmas Eve
almost a year, her last one. ‘

We stopped at Mr. Brown’s. He was a Civil_

\Var veteran—a staunch old patriot. One verse of
“Silent Night” brought no response, but a slight
shining under the shade indicated that he was at”
home. So we knocked. When he opened the door
we greeted him with “The Star-Spangled Ban-
ner.” He stood at attention till we had finished,
then invited us in. He showed us some relics of
the war and asked us to sing “Marching Through
Georgia.” We would have enjoyed staying longer,
but it was getting late. “Merry Christmas” we

461

402 SOME JOYS AND PROBLEMS OF CHRISTMAS CAROLERS

called over our shoulders. “Don’t you yell that at
me!” he stormed. “There ain’t anything to this
Christmas business l” “Hurrah for the Fourth of
July,” crie_d Judy. That made us all double up
with laughter, so we‘didn’t hear his reply, if he
made any.

We were glad we stopped at Mrs. Payne’s. She
wasn’t a shut-in, but she had done more than any-
one else in our town for girls’ clubs. \Vhen she
heard our voices outside the window, she called
her two little girls, and they came and peered at
us with astonishment and delight. Then Mrs.
Payne turned out the lights (she told us after-
ward it was so they could see us out there), and
we could see her and the children dimly by the
light of the red and blue fire in the base burner.
It was a beautiful Christmas picture of “peace
on earth.”

“7 e should like to have let that be the climax,
but we couldn’t. “\Ve must sing to Mrs. Hos-
per,” our leader said. “I doubt whether the old
lady has had a real Christmas since her only
grandchild died.” We could hardly find our way
to the house, on a hillside and' buried in trees and
shrubbery. Mrs. Hosper sat near the window
alone—very old, very bent, and very wrinkled.
She hitched her chair closer to the window, then
sat quietly and listened. Pretty soon we noticed
tears trickling down her cheeks. “Let’s sing an-
other,” one of the girls whispered. we had to go
after that. Did our “Merry Christmas. Grand-
ma!” sound strange to her ears?

\Ve had to rush to get ready for the Christmas
Eve programs at the churches. Some of our
families had gone on. others were nervously
waiting for us. It was
an anticlimax to the
scenes at Grandma
Hosper’s and Mrs.
Payne’s.

After Christmas.
the club sponsors dis-
cussed the merits and
demerits of the situ-
ation. It was. a beau-
tiful custom, and it
brought joy and
Christmas cheer to
lonely hearts. But
the girls were chill-
ed, they were tired
with tramping all
over town in the

Hospitably lighted doorways and windows have
a natural attraction for Christmas carolers!

 

Courtesy Houston, Texas, Recreation Department

snow, they had gulped down only a few bits of
supper, they had been late to the church exercises
and upset everybody’s plans. Yet they had a won-
derful experience, had new light on the meaning
of Christmas. Nobody would want to drop the
customhleast of all the girls themselves.

And Out of It Came a New Plan

Out of this experience a workable plan was
evolved, modified from year to year. The essen—
tial points were these:

I. The town was divided into districts deter-
mined by several considerations, particularly the
number of shut-ins and the distance between their
houses.

2. The club girls were divided into groups ac-
cording to the districts in which they'lived.

3. Each group of girls sang to the shut-ins in
its own district. This arrangement saved time
and cnergy since it was not necessary for the girls
to walk all over town. \Vhen the caroling was
finished, no girl found herself a mile or two from
home.

4. Each group had a leader, a member of the
patrons’ council or some other responsible person
chosen by the council. In cold weather this leader
asked permission for the girls to come inside and
sing. Thus bodies and voices were protected from
the cold.

5. The club sponsors chose a convenient meet-
ing place for each group of singers. Every club
member was notihed by her sponsor concerning
the group she was to be in, the leader, and the
place of meeting. Each leader had a list of the

girls in her group of carolers and a list of homes
to be visited.

6. Each club mem-
ber could invite one
other girl to carol
with her group. Some
girls who didn’t be—
long to clubs wanted
to carol too, so why
shouldn’t they? It
proved a good thing,
for there was a year
or two when there
weren’t enough mem-
bers, and these out-
siders helped us to
preserve the tradi-
tion.

7. Caroling start-

(Contimwd on page 473)

 

For A Merry Christmas

 

'" HRISTMAs DAY”—a Choral
Fantasy on Old Carols
by Gustav Holst, for

mixed chorus, published by No-

velo (obtainable from H. W.

Gray Co., 159 East 48th St., New

York City) at 25¢ a copy. A de-

lightfully spirited choral - piece

arranged with originality by a

genius in choral writing.

“CHILDE JESUS” —— cantata for
mixed chorus by Joseph W.
Clokey and Hazel Jean Kirk. For mixed or treble
voices. Traditional Christmas carols arranged in order
and skillfully linked together by solos and passages in
recitative to tell the complete Christmas story. Score,
60¢. Chorus parts. 15¢. C. C. Birchard and Co., 221

Columbus Avenue, Boston, Mass.

“W’IIEN THE CHRIST CHILD CAME”—Cantata for mixed

voices with four solo voices by J. W. Clokey and L.
S. Porter. Not difficult. C.  Birchard and Co., 75¢.

“THE NATIVITv.” A play with music fqr children based
on old French songs by L. DC. W’arner and M. H.
Barney. E. C. Schirmer Music Co., 75¢.

“CARoL or THE RUSSIAN CHILDREN” by Harvey D. Gaul

—published for both mixed and women’s voices by
G. Schirmer, Inc., 3 East 43rd St., New York, 15¢.

“CHRISTMAS AXD NEw YEAR SoNGS” reprinted from the
Botsford Collection by the Womans Press, 600 Lex-
ington Avenue, New York, 25¢.

“YULETIDE W’AKEs, YULETIDE BREAKS” by Spicer. An
informal program to be used where time. space and
funds will not permit an elaborate entertainment.

W’omans Press, 50¢.

“CHRISTMAS IN MERRIE ENGLAND” by Hofer. A charm-
ing celehration with old English songs and customs
and a short masque in rhyme. From 30 to 80 may take
part. Clayton F. Summy ‘Co., Chicago, Illinois. 25¢.

“JEANNETTE-ISADELLA” by B. Elsmith and C. Repper, C.
C. Birchard and Co. A little song-play or pageant
based upon the charming Provencal carol, “Jeannette-
Isabella." Extremely simple and suitable either for
grade children in church or school, or for treble-voice
groups of all ages. 50¢. '

“THE NATIvITv” by Ekman and Fyffe. A mystery play

for voices with piano or organ. words and music

taken from old French Noels. Oliver Ditson, 166 Ter—
race St., Boston, Mass. 75¢.

“CHRISTMAS IN PEASANT FRANCE” by Hofer. A play
Introducing:r Noels, Chansons, and traditions of the peo-

ple with French and English words. Clayton F. Summy
Co. 50¢.

“THE STAR GLEAMS” by Speare. A Christmas com-,

munity choral; _As many peOple as desired may par-
ticipate. Familiar hymns and carols with tableaux.
Samuel French, 25 \Vest «15th St., New York. 35¢.

Collections of Carols

SHEET OFOCI-‘IRISTMAS CARoLS, words only. The National
Recreation Association 80¢ per 100.

This list of Christmas music has
been prepared by A. D. Zanzig of
the National Recreation Associa-
tion in the hope that it will pro-
vide helpful source material for
communities and groups planning
their Christmas celebrations.

O, Come All Ye Faithful

Silent Night

Hark! The Herald Angels Sing
Here We Come A-Caroling

It Came Upon the Midnight Clear
O Little Town of Bethlehem
Deck the Hall

Good King Wenceslas

The First Nowell

God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen

COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS CARoLS,
No. 9, words and mu51c. The

H. \V. Gray Co. 10¢ each. $5.00 per 100.

Adeste Fidelis

The First Nowell

Good King Wenceslas

God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen
W’e Three Kings of the Orient Are
The Cherry Tree Carol

What Child Is This?

Good Christian Men, Rejoice
The Holly and the Ivy

The W’assail Song

Silent Night

0 Little Town of Bethlehem

STANDARD CHRISTMAS CARoLS, No.’ 1, words and music.
Theodore Presser Co., 1712 Chestnut St., Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. 10¢ each or $6.00 per 100.

Adeste Fidelis

Away in a Manger

The First Nowell

God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen
Good Christian Men, Rejoice

Good King Wenceslas

Hark! The Herald Angels Sing
Joy to the World

O Little Town of Bethlehem

0 Sanctissima

Silent Night

W’e Three Kings of the Orient Are
W'hile Shepherds Watched Their Flocks
I Saw Three Ships

STANDARD SoNGS, No. 4, Christmas Carols, Ancient and
Modern. words and music. 20¢ each, $16.00 per 100..
C. C. Birchard and Co.

0 Come All Ye Faithful

Angels From the Realms of Glory
Joy to the World

Awake and Sing

Away in the Manger

Deck the Hall

The First Nowell

Good King Wenceslas

Good Tidings

Happy Christmas Morning
Harkl the Herald Angels Sing
The Holly and the Ivy

The Host and His Guests

In His Lowly Manger

It Came Upon the Midnight Clear
I Saw Three Ships

O Little Town of Bethlehem
Carol of the Birds

O Star, Lovely Star

(Continued on page 474)

 

463

"l- '-_-

\X/ORLD AT PLAY"

T H E 1934-35 report
of the Berkeley, Cali-
fornia, Recreation De-
partment is the silver
anniversary number. Twenty-five years ago
the first meeting of the Recreation Commission
was held in the office of the Mayor. The report
reminisces in a most interesting way about
early days and the acquisition of the first play-
ground, a small area adjacent to City Hall.
From this modest beginning the city has devel—
oped a modern Recreation Department with
twenty—five municipal and school playgrounds
and fourteen beautiful parks. Berkeley now
has recreation assets valued at. $484,745. In
addition to the fourteen city parks, there are
forty acres of parking strips, a nursery and five
major recreation buildings.

Congratulations to
Berkeley!

 

T H E Newark, New
Jersey, Museum has
initiated an interest-
ing project in its ju—
nior gallery which is devoted to a series of
exhibits of children’s art. This is the latest
development in the museum’s program of
many years of work in children’s art. The
children themselves have arranged and hung
the exhibit, an important feature of which is
a large mural occupying one side of the wall
of the gallery, which the children completed
during their vacation time. The catalogue is-
sued by the museum to mark the opening of

A Junior
Gallery

 

the new gallery is also the work of the children. -

 

WITH -the aid of
FERA, w h i c h has
supplied seventeen
workers for an addi-
tional six weeks, the Wyoming Valley, Penn—
sylvania, Playground and Recreation Associa-
tion is conducting the fall program. Athletics
include tennis under the leadership of the men
workers; athletics for girls and handcraft un-
der the leadership of women workers. Several

464

The Fall Program
in Wilkes Barre

streets are open for play from four o’clock
until dark each night and in four parks a sim-
ilar plan is in operation. A number of workers
are conducting activities in institutions such

as the Old Ladies’ Home, the Children’s Home,
and the_ prison.

THE first donation to
the recently created
National Park Trust
. Fund has been an-
nounced by Secretary of the Interior Harold
L. Ickes. This gift is a check for $5000 from I
the Metro-Goldwyn-Meyer Distributing Cor-
poration, in ’recognition of facilities placed at
the company’s disposal in the filming of the
feature picture, “Sequoia,” made in Sequoia
National Park. The National Park Trust Fund
was created last July by act of Congress for
the furtherance of national park projects, par-
ticularly those connected with the preservation
and restoration of historic cites and areas of
scientific and geologic interest. The monies or
securities comprising the fund are to be in—
vested and reinvested from time to time by
the Secretary of the Treasury in a manner to
be determined by a special board.

The NatiOnal Park
Trust Fund

THE City Council
of Akron, Ohio, has
created a Park and
Playground Advis—
ory Commission to study the city’s recreational
facilities and needs‘and make recommendations
to the Council and the voters in another year.
There will be nine members on the Council.

A Park and Playground
Advisory Commission

’CARROM is purely a
game of skill, popular
with both children and
adults. The recently
established National Carrom Association an-
nounces that tournaments will be played on a na-
tional scale, the association having been organized
to give direction and encouragement to the many

Carrom
Tournaments

GULF SANI-SOIL-SET *
jolt/2.1 playground pad! pace/elm!

1

 

Here is a public school playground which was treated with GULF SANI-SOIL-SET 6 months before tbe The .dUSt problem was solved at this
photograph was taken. It has been used daily by school as well as neighborhood children. Public Elayground 1}! the heart of a
major City bysgililyggg GULF SANI-

New Germz’cz’dezl Compound is Easily
Applied, Inexpensive and Long Lasting . 

Recreation officials now have a praCtical solution to the playground
dust problem!

A new product—Gulf SANI-SOIL-SET—has been developed by
the Gulf Refining Company for dust allaying purposes on earth
surface playgrounds. This material can be applied at low Cost, will .
not harm or stain Clothes or shoes and under usual conditions of
weather and soil, one application per season will sufiice.

Let a Gulf representative tell you more about GULF SANI-

 

SOIL-SET.

GULF REFINING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA. This booklet mu; “,9 “on, of GULF
Damn Sales OEices: Boston New York Philadelphia Atlanta S-ilNI-SOIL-SEFandntsuse- It Will be
New Orleans Houston Pittsburgh Louisville Toledo . milled w'thOPt CO“ on Your refines“
I The c0upon IS for your convenience.

lIGULF REFINING COMPANY I

Makers 0f I 3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh Pa. I

| S _13Sleals§ sepd $6 withoglobfigatignnp copy of the booklet “Gqu I

That Good Gulf Gasolme w : 1:” °" at M “mg mm" s' l

ame . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I

and  Mator 01] I COmpany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I

 

l Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. l

!

466 WORLD A T PLA Y

boys’ clustwho have started tournaments on their
own initiative during the past few years. Freeman
R. Stearns, national secretary of the associa-
tion, states that the association has drawn up
an official set of tournament rules, has devel—
oped community, regional and national plans
for conducting tournaments, has prepared a
manual of instructions, has designed suitable
membership and championship badges, and is
offering an award to tournament winners. Any
boy or girl is eligible for membership in the
Carrom Club, and any group of eight or more
members obtaining an adult sponsor is author-
ized to conduct a tournament under the asso-
ciation rules. The winner is entitled to the
silver championship medallion offered by the
association to those who qualify as champions.
Community, church and school recreation di-
rectors, Scout masters and all interested in the
tournament plan may secure complete infor-
mation by writing Mr. Stearns at 200 Luding-

ton Avenue, Ludington, Michigan.

-Fall and Winter Camping in California --
Opportunities for fall and winter camping at
municipal camps are offered by the Playground
and Recreation Department of Los Angeles.
Week-end outingsafor girls are available at the
Griffith Park Girls’ Camp at the low nominal
rate of 25 cents per night per girl. These out-
i-ngs‘ are being conducted by such organizations
and groups as the Camp Fire Girls, Girl Scouts,
Girl Reserves, and church and school groups.
Adults and families are being accommodated
at Camp Seeley where there are housekeeping

cabins and an auto camp.

A New Activities Building in Philadelphia——
The Philadelphia Bureau of Recreation initi—
ated its winter program with the opening at
the Tustin Recreation Center of a new build-
ing, the first to be constructed since 1931. The
buff gray one-story building with white trim
is 120 feet long and 23 feet deep. A triple ar-
cade nearly 50 feet long connects the two
wings of the unit. A combination club, class
and community room 33 feet by 20 feet occu—
pies one wing; a comfort station, the other.

All indoor walls are finished with glazed terra— .

cotta of variegated cream. Control valves for
all plumbing fixtures are enclosed in a utility
closet, the key to which is held by the worker
in charge. According to the architects, this
control system is a new development in the

construction of public rooms which will insure-
perfect sanitation and cut down the expense of
maintaining the fixtures. Short flights of steps
lead to the playground from the building. The-
immediate “yard,” which is about 20 feet high-
er than the main athletic field, has been set
aside for activities for the smaller children.
Two leaders, a man and a woman, are con—
ducting a program of dancing, dramatics, han-
dicraft, and a variety of clubs. On the athletic
field organized sports are enjoyed by the older
children.

Hallowe’en in Los Angeles—On All Hal-
low’s Eve every municipal playground and rec—
reation c e n t e r in Los Angeles, California,
staged a huge community celebration provid-
ing all the traditional fun and none of the de—
structive pranks commonly associated with the
Hallowe’en celebration. Great bonfires blazed
forth their invitation to boys and girls and
older people, too, to fiock to the playgrounds,
there to take part in gala carnivals, costume
parades, bobbing for apples, games, contests
and stunts, and other varieties of Hallowe’en
gaiety. In the light of the flames children
garbed as witches, goblins, spooks and gnomes
frolicked to their hearts’ content, while har-
assed property own ers breathed a sigh of
relief!

St. Paul Takes Stock of Its Recreation——
The Recreation Survey of St. Paul, a project
of the Minnesota ERA and sponsored by the
St. Paul City Planning Board, has made its
appearance in mimeographed form. The sur-
vey was made by George H. Herrold, Manag-
ing Director and Engineer, and was edited and
written by Katherine B. Spear. The report
gives the historical background of the develop-
ment of the recreatibn movement in St. Paul
and discusses facilities and activities under the
following headings: Department of Parks,
Playgrounds and Public Buildings; Depart-
ment of Education; Semi-Public and Private
Recreation Agencies. There is a chapter on
Studies Relating to Public Recreation and also
a section on Administration and Costs of Pub-

lic Recreation.

A Recreation Center for Great Barrington——-
The $80,000 barn on the estate of Major Hugh
M. Smiley at Great Barrington, Massachusetts,
is being converted into a recreation center for

‘-

WORLD AT PLAY 4(17

winter sports enthusiasts flocking to Grea t
Barrington on snow trains. The barn is being
equipped with living quarters, a kitchen,‘ liv-
ing room, and all conveniences. The two wings
are to be used as sleeping rooms and fireplaces
will be installed on each floor. Equipment will
be provided for indoor sports. Ski runs are
numerous in this section of Massachusetts, two
of them being within an easy walk of the cen—
ter. There are a number of small ponds for

skating.

Twelfth Annual Soap Sculpture Competi-
tion—The National Soap Sculpture Committee
announces the twelfth annual competition for
small sculptures in white soap closing May I,
1936. Classifications include professional;-ad—
vanced amateur (adults twenty-one years of
age and over); senior (those fifteen years and
over and under twenty-one) ; and junior (those
under fifteen years of age). A special award
will be made to public, private or parochial
school or class entering the best exhibit in
which a group is participating. 'In addition,
two special awards are offered for the single
sculpture best suited to reproduction in bronze
and for one best adapted to reproduction in
pottery. Further information may be secured
from the National Soap Sculpture Committee,
80 East 11th Street, New York City.

Developments in Cincinnati — The Public
Recreation Commission reduced golf fees for
1935 to one—half the 1931 charges; taught peo-
ple to play in group lessons, and took other
steps which have made golf in Cincinnati,
Ohio, the people’s game. Eighty-four hundred
different individuals played golf this year on
the municipal courses. Of these more than
2,000 had never played the game before. The
Commission also reduced tennis fees and
taught the game in group less ons free of
charge, with the result that 10,000 different
Cincinnatians played on the 85 courts. The
Commission maintained nearly 1,000 acres as
against 358 acres three years ago.

In A Rural District—Mr. E. L. Walkup,
Director of Recreation, Cairo, Illinois, writes
that the Recreation Commission is fostering a
recreation club organized by the young people
in the neighborhood of the Roth Community
Chapel. This church is located in what is

 

CORD

Teachers. Recreation and Playground Instructors. Occupa-
tional Therapists. etc., £nd this craft useful and inter-
esting. SQUARE KNOTTING requires practically no
equipment. is easy to learn. develops skill and origi-
nality and is a pleasant diversion.

Send for our catalog and samples FREE or take advan-
tage of our SPECIAL OFFER which includes our
regular 81.00 Instruction Book toaether with the 50:
Beginners Outht, all for SI. DON’T DELAYI

P. C. HERWIG CO.
SQUARE KNOT HEADQUARTERS

268 Washington 81:. Dept. K-12 B’klyn, N. Y.

known as Dog Tooth Bend, 2). rich agricultural
district that is under water during flood
periods. The building was erected by the
people of the community and regular Sunday
services are held there, though no regular
minister is in charge of the church. The club
of young people which uses the church facili—
ties meets weekly and has produced several
plays. The interest of the entire community
has been aroused not only in the drama pro-
gram but also in the social game periods held
in connection with the meetings.

A Play Field in Huntington.—The most out-
standing recreational development in Hunting-
ton, West Virginia, is the completion by the
Park Department with ERA help of a play
field with ball diamonds, tennis courts, a wad-
ing pool, a children’s playground and a park
building. This building contains showers and
toilets, a kitchen, a large room suitable for
meetings and social events, and living quarters
for the director.

New Playgrounds for Needham, Massachu-
setts—In March, 1934, at a town meeting held
in Needham, Massachusetts, it was voted to
appoint a committee of five to study the recre—
ational needs in the town of Needham, to re-
port to the next annual town meeting and to
recommmend what apprOpriations, if any,
should be made for the support of playgrounds
and of a bathing beach. The committee of five
appointed represented the School Committee,
the Planning Board, the Village Club, the
Board of Trade and the Rosemary Beach. As
a result of the report submitted to the town
meeting on March 19, 1935, a permanent Rec-

468 RECREATION AND THE GOOD LIFE

reation Committee was appointed and $900
appropriated for the operation of two play—
grounds during the summer.

Recreation and the Good Life
(Continued from 'pagc 436)

That is the precise object of this division with
which I am now concerned. I beg of you to be
patient about it. Politics interferes; routine in-
terferes; the hostility of the press to this program
interferes; the rising tide of reaction in this coun-
try interferes; and, last of all, there is the sober-
ing realization that although all the economic in-
dices tell us that the depression is over, its con-
sequences will last for two generations. \Ve have
on our hands millionsof defeated men and women.
I have been seeing some of them during the past
fortnight. At the end of the third year of unem-
ploymentand public relief the men begin to break;
at the end of the fourth and fifth year the women
begin to break, and now in America fine young
men and young women who went to college dur-
ing the boom days have been on relief for three
and five years. They are breaking by the millions.
We have a great task on our hands, and I beg of
you to be patient with those of us who are trying
in the best way we can to solve it through the
awkward instruments of a great; national political
organization. I also beg of you to help us. There
must be light for these people; there must be joy
sometime ahead; it is incredible that Americans
should stop at this point and that we should not
all together strive to bring about in this country a
renewal of the old America dream -—a good life

f or everybody.

‘h

Recreation in Our Present Democracy
(Continued from page 439)

so long as there are large numbers of children
who do not know green fields and just as many
adults whose lives are spent in the unbroken rou-
tine and daily grind of the city worker and fac-
tory laborer. Liberty for what? Leisure for
what? Chiefly to nurse a deep hatred for a
social structure that condemns them to the mean-
est and barest existence. On the average our liv-
ing standards are still vastly higher than those
of any other country, but we must see to it that
the future holds out definite hopes especially to
all under-privileged citizens of further improve-
ment not only in material ways but especially in

  
 
 
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
    
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
   

those amenities with which we are concerned and
which are reflected by the inner rather than th
outer life. Nor have we the excuse that it take
huge sums of money to bring the light of joyou
activities into such communities. What it take
mostly is understanding and careful organization
and, above all these, a sense of mutual resl)onsi-
bility and justice. '

\Vith such social problems to be solved, it seems
to me nothing short of monstrous that we are
spending huge sums on national organizations to
make us all culture conscious by giving us thea-
ters by the dozen and mural frescoes by the mile.
Such procedure is like that of a doctor who wants
to cure a gangrenous leg with a sticking plaster.
As if culture could ever be imposed in this man-
ner 'with a surface application! What is art, what
is true civilization except the reflection of the
patterns of a well-integrated social structure?
Unless we begin at the bottom to clean up, to
purify and to strengthen that social structure, the
desire for a truly cultivated existence in this
country is just so much moonshine.

And that, my friends, is the reason why your
work is now of such importance. Like no other
organization which the nation boasts, you are con-
cerned with the problem of bringing to thousands
of localities the chance to get away from the dusty
uniformity of Uninspired living. Our organiza-
tions are a subtle instrument for meeting the
rapid shift of interest and desires which is now
going on in the public mind. Just because our ef-
forts represent a recent addition to education and
because our methods have not yet become fixed,
we can respond more quickly and more satisfact-
torily to the inevitable social changes that lie be-
fore us. We can and must make ourselves an in-
tegral part of our local governments and thereby
give new meanings and a new value to what gov- I
ernment should do and be. I

In this way, and in this alone, through the
jealous maintenance of local independence, can the
word “liberty” in America take on a new signifi-
cance. Liberty is not a thing that was given us
for all time to have and to hold. It has never in
our history been so threatened as it is now. We
are in danger of having the liberties of the pres—
net generation used—and cleverly used—to forge
chains for our future. Security is being dangled
before us as the real goal of existence, but no true
liberal will ever be satisfied with security as the
be-all and the end-all of life. A feeling of se-
curity in the sense of confidence in the echiency

MAKING LEISURE TIME COUNT 469

and justice of our social organizatiOn must exist
- if society is to function, but security bought at
the price of liberty, as in communist and fascist
countries, is paid for too dearly. Our function is
that of helping to establish the sense of security
and well-being without invading individual free-
Ldom. Then recreation becomes not a soporific, as
.' it is among the Russians—something to help them
forget their chains—nor yet a sugar—coating for
lmilitary regimentation, as it is in Germany and
Italy. With us, if only we are equal to our op-

portunities, recreation will respond more and.

more to the daily needs of a civilized people in a
nation that is moving bravely and intelligently
toward a liberal and a glorious destiny.

Making Leisure Time Count
(Continued from page 443)

and communion with strangers; the student finds
the Hora and geologic structures for study; the
artist finds beauty to be transcribed by brush,
song or word ; the younger generation finds swim-
ming, hiking. fishing and other healthful pursuits.

“’hile the recreation areas of Illinois attract
hundreds of thousands of visitors in their leisure
hours, they are destined to serve a second im-
p0rtant purpose—that of preserving for posterity
much of the rich historic background of the state
and its people. Illinois’ acres of parks are natural
beauty spots. Canyons, gorges, caves, palisades,
Indian mounds and great forests spread the entire
length of the state. Our splendid system of high-
ways and the modern automobile put these attrac-
tions almost at the door of every citizen.

Nature lovers will revel in the spring blossom—
ing season; in the protected. shaded hollows with
their cooling aid and moist ferns when the sum-
mer sun beats down; in the foliage turned a Ham-
ing color in the autumn. and in the glistening
snows ot wmter.

Every convenience for the pleasure and enjoy-
ment of visitors has been considered in develop-
ing our state parks. Trails in existence since the
time of the red man, coursing through picturesque
sections and connecting beauty spots, are marked
that hikers may wander through and commune
with nature. Shelters are placed in restful places
along the paths and at the crest of hills and
proniontories where exceptional vistas unfold. A
plentiful supply of good drinking water tested by
state health authorities is provided. If you have
time to linger in the state before departing for

 

GIVE PlTCI—IING
HORSESHOESIN THE

Olhriztmaa {Heritage

A gift all sport lovers will appreciate the
year round. Packed in brightly colored boxes.
—either in pairs as illustrated or in sets of
four with stalres in sturdy wooden boxes.
However packed—Diamond Official Pitching
Horseshoes are winners in the preference of
both amateur and professional players.

DIAMOND

CALK HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

your homes, I hope you will visit our state parks,
as well as the parks of our cities, and see what
Illinois is_doing in this phase of furthering an ef-
fective recreation program for its people.

Illinois is indeed fortunate in having the op-
portunity to be host to you men and women who
are aiming high and serving devotedly in mold-
ing the characters of present and future genera-
tions. I pledge 'you that Illinois will enthusiasti-
cally copoerate in the great purposes which the
members of the National Recreation Association
is sponsoring in the interest and welfare of all
the pe0ple.

Recreation and Wholesome Living
(Continued from page 443)

sculpture, drama, literature, interior decorating;
handcrafts of all descriptions and many activities
are included in this phase of the w0rk.

At present children are making their own musi-
cal instruments and expressing great enthusiasm
in making toy airplanes.

And again, you know, the activities of the out—
of—doors such as the health-giving exercises of

 

470 WELCOME TO THE RECREATION CONGRESS

tennis, golf, hiking, boating; swimming fishing,
etc.
Many can have these privileges right at hand,
but a vast number of us need help in obtaining
them. So the National Recreation Association
stresses the training of men and women who are
taught the best way of gaining these advantages
by means of the playground and group activities
in churches, clubs, various municipal societies and
community houses.

From all these avenues open to us, each can dis-
cover his niche and find in life a new incentive.
In‘being happy ourselves we can brighten the lives
of others and follow Christ’s teaching of brother-
hood and gracious living.

Welcome to the Recreation Congress
( Continued from page 444)

velop his muscles and deve10p his mind, not only
in school, but in these recreation centers, in order
that he may have a clean mind and healthy body.
I know you are doing all of that, and I want par-
ticularly to thank those in our city who are using
their cnergy in that direction. I know they are
really energetic and I know that they enjoy the
work. I know the boys in the South Park Dis-
trict, when I was there, had just as much fun out
of this as the little boys themselves.

We of Chicago are rather proud of our park
system, not because of its beauty, not because of
its drives, but because of the good it has done in
the various communities, teaching the boys and
,girls that this is a great country in which to live.
The city government of Chicago maintains thirty-
nine supervised playgrounds. The Board of Edu-
cation operates sixty—one playgrounds. The Park
District, including all of the parks, operates in the
county ninety-eight recreation buildings as well
as one hundred twenty—eight parks. There are
sixty square miles of forest preserves in and
around Chicago.

The private agencies are also doing wonderful
work—the Young Men’s Christian Association,
the Catholic Youth Organization, the Young
Men’s Hebrew Association, Young 'Women’s
Christian Association, Chicago Boys’ Club, and
many other boys' and girls' clubs. Chicago is
really feeling the necessity for taking care of our
boys and girls in other ways rather than ordered
education.

It is mighty nice to see such men as Dr. Finley
and these men on the platform here tonight in—
terested in the developmcnt of the youngsters of

  
 
   
   
     
   
  
  
  
  
  

the country. It is wonderful to know that we hav
in this country of ours men who will give up thei
time, men who take pleasure in giving up thei
time, for the youngsters of the country, the futur
citizens of our great land.

I want to say to you tonight that we are happ
to know that you are doing this, and we are happ
that you have come here to Chicago. \Ve hop
that while you are here you will have a pleasan
time. I know the people connected with the Par
District of the City of Chicago will make eve ,
effort to see that you do enjoy yourselves. I hop
that you will come back.

\Ve want to thank you for holding this COn
gress here because while we don’t feel that the
numbers have done so much good, or so muc
money may be left in town, we think that it is a
great thing for the morale of the city in buildin
up its youngsters, and it is a great honor for me
to have the privilege of talking to you her
tonight.

The Spirit of Joy-in Athletics

(Continued from page 451)

haps he will tune in and connect up with the
power station.”

When those boys went out on the held that
night to play. the coach, who was rather a hard-
headed, driving sort, said to them, “Put on your
fighting faces.” Then he turned to his assistant
and said, “Those eight fellows going out there to-
gether are licked before they start. They look
just as peaceful as a bunch of cows going out to
chew the grass. I just can’t get any fight into
them tonight. They are going out just as peaceful
as if all they were going to do was have some
fun.” Those eight fellows played with a power
that no McAllester team had ever shown before;
they played with perfect co-ordination, each man
in his right place;,one threw a pass and another I
seemed to catch it over his shoulder without hardly I

looking back. ‘

I believe that there is a joy, the greatest joy I
have known, in the rhythm of life, if we can only I
contact it and let it speak joyously through us
like the leader of our singing tonight. All the
rhythm in our playing should be like that—almost
music. we should step out of ourselves and put
our whole beings, for once, into anything that we
are doing. Thomas A. Edison knew the secret of -
putting his whole being into what he was doing
and his workl was joyous to him.

 

111.46.4213’55 AND PAMPHLETS

And there is a joy in team work where you are
all playing each as a part of the other; and there
is joy in stepping outside of yourself and.letting
the universal in you contact the universal out
there, and to feel like that little electric motor
that was put into a contest once with a great loco-

_ motive. They pressed together and the signal was

given. The wheels of the great locomotive began
to go around and smoke puffed out, but that lit-
tle bit of a motor slowly began to push it back.
The old engineer, who belonged to the old school,
hated to give in. He leaned out and said, “W'e
could lick you, little cuss, but we can't lick the
power up there in the hills.”

\Ve don"t have to be philosophical or spiritual
about it, but the power of this rhythm and the
joy of life is the little message I would like to
bring to you. I \vould'like to_ leave it with you
because each one, in his own way, I know can
carry out some of those things and has experi—
enced thcm perhaps more than I have. But when
I came to let go of athletics I didn't let go of the
things that athletics brought me, and I only wish
that we had playgrounds now for older folks to
go out and play the game.

What the Schools Can Do to Prepare
Children For the New Frontiers

in Recreation
(Continued from page 455)

the frontiers of leisure time have come upon
us rapidly and it is too much to expect that
schools everywhere are quite ready to rise to
the occasion. In a city recently studied by the
thce of Education, forty of its fifty elemen-
tary schools had a playground space below
the accepted minimum requirements. This city
is hardly an exception. we must bear in mind,
however, that most of these schools were built
at least a quarter or a half century ago when
interest in play as an educational asset was
correspondingly small. In many communities
the needs for play of the rank and tile of pupils
are slighted for the exploitation of those of
superior athletic prowess. In too many schools
music and art are still looked upon as non—
essentials. Nevertheless, all things considered,
we are making great progress.

W'e may not quite measure up to our oppor-
tunities, but we are no longer afraid to en-
courage play both of mind and of body. \Ve
not only encourage it but we develop it and
direct it. W'hether it be for batting a ball,

471

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

The National Parent-Teacher Magazine, November 1935
A Game Room for the Family, by Florence B.
Terhune
Parents’ Magazine, November 1935
What Art May Mean to a Child, by Florence Cane
Young Ideas in Toys. by M. Ellen Houseman
Family Fun. by Elizabeth King
Mind and Body, October 1935
Outdoor Hobbies, by Barbara Ellen Joy and Virginia
Anderton Lee
Junior-Senior High School Clearing House, November 1933
An Overview of the Civilian Conservation Corps, by
John W. Studebaker
Educational Activities in the CCC Camps, by How—

ard \V. Oxley
The European \Vork—Camp Movement, by Kenneth

Holland
Social Implications of the CCC, by Arthur J. Todd
What the CCC Might Have Been, by John M. Brewer

The Camping Magazine, November 1935 *

Camp Life and the Home—A Co-partnersliip, by
Lela Pinkham

Factors Involved in Developing an Organized Camp,
by Fay \Velch

Practical Approaches to Nature Study, by Albert
Van S. Pulling \
Games and Contests for Horseback Riding, by

Bernard S. Mason

Rural America, October 1935
Rural Arts in the United States, by \V. H. Stacy

The Bookshelf, December 1935
Caroling Christmas Plays. by Marion Peabody
Father-Mother-Daughter Christmas Party, by Betty
J. Lyle
The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
November 1935
The Recreational Program in a Penal Institution,
by P. S. Cleland

The Increasing Popularity of Lacrosse for Girls, by
Martha Gable

A Survey of the Social Dance in America, by
Lucile Marsh

Methods in Teaching Basketball Skills, by H. C.
Carlson, MD.

Mixer Dances, by H. D. Edgren

The American City, November 1935
Contributions of the Emergencies to Recreation
Progress, by Josephine Randall
Boston Goes in for \Vading Pools
“Children of the Shadows" Get Twelve Acres of
Open Space

The Record. December 1935
Let’s Make Our Games, by Elizabeth Price

PAMPH LETS

Ofi'icial Rules Book—Florida Shulileboard Association
The Brice Printing Co., Inc.. Lake \Vales, Florida.
Price $.25

l8th Annual Report of the Flint, Mich., Community
Music Association, 1934-1935

l0th Annual Report of the Department‘ of Recreation of
Hcmtramck, Mich., 1934-1935

Fifty-second Annual Report of the Board of Park Com-
missioners, Minneapolis, 1934

 

472 NO W TH A T W'I N TE R’S COME .'

Aids to
Your Christmas Celebration

0 If you are not familiar with
The Christmas Book. send
for a copy now. It contains

A Devonshire Christmas
(a celebration for Merrie England)

A Christmas Frolic

The Saint George Play

The Perfect Gift (a pageant)

A Christmas Carnival in. Carols and
Pantomimes

Stories of the Christmas Carols

A Christmas Kaleidoscope

(introducing a large number of children
in folk dancing)

List of Christmas Plays and Pageants -
List of Christmas Music

Price $.50

And order now your Christmas carol
sheets containing the words of ten
favorite carols. ($.80 per hundred)

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue . . New York City

modeling an airplane, writing a poem, painting
a picture or producing a symphony, our
schools are endeavoring to furnish Opportunity
for play, to develop appreciation of play and
to encourage latent talent for play. We have
the vision and we are in a fair way to furnish
our pupils an adequate introduction to the
playing fields of the larger life made possible
by growing leisure, a leisure which the recrea—
tive activities taught in our schools have,
themselves, helped to create.

Now That Winter's Come!
(Continued from page 458)

banks it should be pushed as close to the edge as
possible so as not to cut down the skating area
too much. In light snowfalls snow can be pushed
by the trucks across the width of the skating area.

In practical tests of the strength of ice it has
been 'found that four inches of black ice will hold
cavalry and light guns. Five inches will hold a
Ford truck weighted with sand and will also be
safe for public skating. If there is any snow ice
mixed in, six inches in all will be sufficient to hold
a truck for cleaning purposes. On small ponds,

not so deep as to present any danger of drowning.
and where hand scrapers might be used, it will be
safe to skate on from three to four inches of ice.
On ponds deeper than three feet, four inches will
be safe when supervised so that crowds will not
gather at any one spot.

Life saving equipment consisting of a ladder
and rope should always be at hand where there
is skating.

Where hockey rinks are to be made, the rinks
should be oblong, 200 feet long and 85 feet wide
with goal posts placed 10 feet in from the ends,
making them 180 feet from one goal to the other.
The boards around the rink should be three feet
high to confine the play within the rink and be
high enough so that players will not have a leg
broken by being pushed over them. If the boards
cannot be put in three feet high, a two inch plank
10 inches high can be used, as player can easily
jump over these boards without being hurt. Such
rinks are used in playgrounds where there are
several of them. Where only one rink is built, it
should be three feet high.

Repairing Holes and Cracks in the Ice

Small cracks in the ice can be best filled by
pouring hot water in them. The hot water will
combine with the body of the ice and freeze solid.
For wider cracks it may be necessary to put in a
mixture of snow and water, permitting this to
freeze and then putting in hot water. If hot water
is not available, cold water can be used, and it
would be best to do the work when the tempera-
ture is not far under freezing. Holes in the ice
can be patched with a mixture of snow and water.
Flooding in temperatures around zero or below is
very likely to crack the surface of the ice and
cause pieces to split out.

The Dust Problem on the Playground
(Continued from page 460)

3. No objectionable odor was noticed or reported.

4. The compound does not stain or cling. The
school has a white maple floor not over fifty
feet from the playground gate. No staining or
discoloring was noted on this floor.

5. When purchased in drums the cost is about the
same as calcium chloride. When purchased in
tank cars the cost is considerably less.

6. Quick absorption was shown by the fact that
the playgrounds were used the (lay of ap-
plication.

7. No complaints have been made of injury to
clothing or aggravation of skin abrasions.

THE DUST PROBLEM ON THE PLAYGROUND 473

The results of this investigation and the ap-
pearance of the ground were so satisfactory that
the Recreation Department decided to treat their
worst offenders from a dust standpoint, and a
total of eight playgrounds have received this
compound. The Board of Education has also
treated three additional playgrounds. The results
have been gratifying in all cases,'but due to the
nature of the soil and to varying rates of appli-
cation per square yard, some have been more sat-

isfactory than others.

Preparation of the Ground

The preparation of the ground depends to a
considerable extent on the nature of the soil. The
first ground treated was of a clay type with a
hard crust. T his ground was scarified to create a
dust or fine soil before the treatment and im-
mediately after was rolled. In subsequent treat-
ment of other grounds rolling was omitted. and

in the majority of cases the scarifying also. In

sandy soil this works fairly well but in clay soil
the ground should be scarified for immediate ab-
sorption and to prevent draining to the low spots
where it lies for a period and forms dark spots
when finally absorbed. The compound can be ap—
plied at any time when the ground is not too wet.
Best results are obtained, however, when the
ground is in a slightly damp condition, the loose
material drying rapidly when scarified. The ap-
plication of the material is simple. On small
grounds application can be made by hand sprinkl-
ing cans, while on large grounds a Sprinkling
truck equipped with power pump can be used for
even and economiCal distribution.

Sani—Soil-Set is a compound of a special petrol-
eum base and chemicals with decided germicidal
properties. Special consideration was given the
preparation to provide an odorless and stainless
product which obviously would be required for
playgrounds. The compound has little cementive
quality and tends to prevent formation of a hard
surface. This is desirable on a playground used
for rough and tumble games. The dust allaying
effect is accomplished by the action of the com-
pOUnd in adhering to and weighing down the dust
particles. Extremely low volatility of the com-
pound and its insolubili’ty in water are responsible
for the lasting effect.

It is generally recognized that dust may induce
pulmonary or bronchial diseases and that it is a
germ carrying agent. Any dust allayer is there-
fore of benefit from a health standpoint. Sani-

Soil—Set, however, possesses an additional advan-
tage in that it is by its nature toxic to germs, and
this property has been enhanced by the additiOn
of a special material.

Research work is continuing on this subject but
the writer feels, in view of the present results,
that a. vexing problem has now been solved in an
inexpensive and sanitary manner.

Some Joys and Problems of

Christmas Carolers
(Continued from page 462)

ed about five o’clock. With the early start and the
district arrangement, we were through by half
past six. This gave us plenty of time so our eve-
ning needn’t be spoiled by hurry.

8. No more than two songs were sung in any
home. The local newspaper always announced
the caroling a week or so before Christmas. It
was explained that the girls had other Christmas
Eve activities and only one song could be SUng
at each home except in unusual cases, and then a
second might be sung.

9. Only three different songs were sung. The
girls chose three favorites and learned them. This
removed all necessity for copies or flashlights.
The singing was more spontaneous and enjoyable,
too, when we didn’t have to keep our eyes on a
copy or stand huddled so three or four could see
the same paper.

10. Treats could be accepted, but not dona-
tions of cash. The first time we divided accord-
ing to districts, one group was given a dollar.
Then the question arose whether the dollar should
go into the general club fund or be used by the
grOUp for treats. It was used for treats because.
after all, that gI'OUP had the money in its own
hands. But the sponsors foresaw that this might
lead to a selfish desire to sing at the most well-to-
do homes. Also, people would soon feel obligated
to donate, and many of them could not well do so.
This would spoil the joy we wanted to bring. So
the write-up in the local paper always included a
note to the effect that the girls did not want
money. “The community during the year has
shOWn its appreciation of the girls’ work. This _is
their Christmas gift to the community.” But it
was funny to see how our pockets bulged with
candy when we were through caroling!

II. Each year pe0ple were requested to report
to one of the sponsors the names of shut-ins. This
notice was published in the local paper. Then if'

474 FOR A MERRY CHRISTMAS

anyone was missed, the fault was not entirely the
club’s.

12. The chairman of the sponsors’ association
never went caroling. She stayed home to take
care of phone calls. There was always some ohe
who arrived late and found the gang gone. "What
can I do ?” “Let me get the list,” the chairman
would answer. “They were going to Knight’s,
then to Grigsby’s and then to McGee’s. You’d
better go to Grigsby’s and if you don’t find them
there go to McGee’s; I’m sure you’ll catch them
before they get farther than that.”

Each year a few minor changes were made in
the general scheme, but these twelve points were
followed year after year. The girls enjoyed carol—
ing, so much so that groups often visited homes
not on the lists just to add to the Christmas
spirit. The carols became part of the regular
Christmas festivities. People who were sick never
felt entirely sorry to be sick, while the aged look-
ed forward to the girls’ visit as the kiddies to the
visit of Santa Claus..

A young mother told me about Christmas Eve
in her home. She was getting the children ready
for the program at the church—curling hair, shin-
ing shoes, slipping on freshly-pressed clothes, and
all the rest. Wondering how warme they should
be dressed, she stepped outside to look at the
thermometer. Half a block away, at the home of
a sick neighbor, a carol was started. “It came
upon a midnight clear.” Stepping inside, she
called the children: “Come here.” She hastily
wrapped a blanket around the two and threw the
door open. It was a perfect Christmas Eve—
calm and still. The song could be heard distinctly.

“ ‘Peace on the earth, good will toward men’
From Heaven’s all-gracious King.
The world in solemn stillness lay
To hear the angels sing.”

“Mama, is it angels?” whispered little Betty.
And her mother answered, “I’ll tell you about
them tomorrow. I think they’re one kind of

angel.”

For A Merry Christmas

(Continued from page 463)

Shepherds, Shake Off Your Drowsy Sleep
Ring On, Christmas Bells

Silent Night

Sing \Ve Noel

Three Kings of Orient

\Vassail Song
While Shepherds Watched

J

“CHRISTMAS CAROLS,’ a collection of carols compiled by
Angela Diller and Kate Stearns Page, G. Schirmer,

Inc., 75¢.

FIVE CHRISTMAS CAROLS FROM DIFFERENT LANDS, 12¢.
G. Schirmer, Inc.

FIVE CAROLS OE' OLD ENGLAND, Octavo 145, words and
music. Carl Fischer, Inc., 56 Cooper Sq., New York,
15¢.

In Bethlehem
Christmas Eve
The Shepherds’ Watch

EIGHT OLD ENGLISH CAROLS, 10¢. G. Schirmer, Inc.
FOUR NOELS or NORMANDY, 10¢. G. Schirmer, Inc.

Christians Awake
The Golden Carol

SIX OLD FRENCH CAROLS. In two pamphlets, each 8¢.
G. Schirmer, Inc.

FIVE BASQUE NOELS, Octavo 140. Arranged for four-
part chorus, 12¢. Carl Fischer, Inc.

Here Comes Holly The Christmas Tree Carol
Minstrel’s Carol The Shepherd’s Song
The Seven Joys

FOUR OLD FRENCH CAROLS, Octavo 779, words and music.
The Boston Music Co., 116 Boylston St., Boston.
Mass. 25¢.

At Midnight a Summons Came
Bring a Torch, Jeannette, Isabella
Sleep, Little Dove

\Vhen at Christmas Christ Was Born

FIVE OLD FRENCH CAROLS, Octavo 78, words and music.
Carl Fischer, Inc. 12¢ (Arranged for four-part chorus.
Can also be used as unison or two-part.)

Shepherds and Shepherdesses
Oh, Sing Forevermore

Ho, Awake

O Holy Night

Gloria

FIVE RUSSIAN CAROLS, Octavo 93, words and music. (Ar-
ranged for four-part chorus) Carl Fischer, Inc., 12¢.

Christmas Bells The Star
In a Manger Glory to God
Adoration

FIVE BOIIEMIAN FOLK SONG CAROLS, Octavo 156, words

and music. (Arranged for four-part chorus.) Carl
Fischer, Inc., 15¢.

The Stars Are Shining
Shepherds Rejoice
The Angel’s Message

Ring Out, Ye Bells
Glory to God

CAROLS FROM THE OXFORD BOOK OF CAROLS—edited by
Dearmer, Williams and Shaw. Carl Fischer, Inc. Over
150 carols from that collection can be purchased in
separate leaflets containing the . words and music,
usually of two carols, at 6¢ per leaflet. The following
are among the best for community singing, but there
are many others equally suitable:

Wassail Song St. Stephen
God Bless the Master of This House Greensleeves
Boar’s Head Carol

{Make We Joy {'ITh‘gCI’ld’e b.l
A Gallery Carol n u c’ J” ’0
Yeoman’s Carol The Angel Gabriel
Coventry Carol The Holly and the Ivy

NOTE: Additional music and drama material for the cele-
bration of the Christmas season may be found in
the Christmas Book published by the National
Recreation Association at 50¢ a copy. It includes
lists of oc_tavo music for mixed, men’s and
womens v01ces.

__‘_-.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Tell Me a Birthday Story

By Carolyn Sherwin Bailey. Frederick A. Stokes Com-
pany, New York. $2.00.

As A BIRTHDAY GIFT to the children Miss Bailey, well
known author of a number of books on story-tell-
ing, tells the stories of the childhood days of a number
of “famous people, heroic people, historic people.” “Some
of these great persons,” she says, “were born on your
birthday. Many of them had the same birthday month
as yours.” This fact will add to the interest of the chil-
dren as they read of the famous peeple who were born
on their birthday.

Official Basketball Guide for
Women and Girls, l935-36

Edited by Committee on Women’s Basketball, VVomen’s
Rules and Editorial Committee of the Women’s Ath-
letic Section, A.P.E.A. Spalding's Athletic Library.
No. 17R. $.25.

NEW FEATURE of the 1935-1936 ofiicial rules is a set

of experimental rules drawn up with the idea of pro-

viding for the highly skilled and experienced player an

opportunity to develop a little faster game by an exten-

sion of her territory and privileges. This revised edition

also contains a number of new articles which will be of
interest.

Let's Play!

Compiled by Pauline Reynolds. The Farmer’s Wife, St.
Paul, Minnesota. $.25.

GAMES FOR FAMILIES, for parties, for small groups and
and large,'for playing indoors and outdoors, are all
contained in this new 64 page book which offers direc-
tions for over 150 games and activities. Special emphasis
is laid on recreation for typical farm families. Every-
thing is included from puzzles to the most hilarious
active games, and there is in addition a special section of
ten of the best known folk dances with music.

Selected Books and Pictures for
Young Children

Educational Playthings, Inc., New York. $.50.

HERE Is A BOOKLET for parents, teachers and others who

are interested in books for young children. It makes
no pretense of being an inclusive list but is a selective
one presenting many of the best books of each type. As
far as possible the books are listed under broad head-
.ings which have to do with children’s interest. “We are

beginning to realize,” states the introduction, “that we
should not buy merely ‘a book for a six year old child’
but a ‘book that {its the child’s age, experience, interests
and environment.’ ” An interesting section of the booklet
is that having to do with selected pictures for young
children with a valuable introductory statement under

.the title “A Child’s Introduction to Pictures” pointing

out bases of choice.

Indoor Games and Fun

By Sid G. Hedges. J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadel—
phia. $1.25.

THIS BOOK begins where an earlier publication of the
author, Indoor and Conwmm'ty Games, leaves oFf. It
includes more than 150 fresh games, both quiet and
active, original party plans, draught and checker boards,
hints on such varied activities as billiards, tumbling, self-
defense, punch ball, and Indian club work, table tennis
and bagatelle. There are plenty of activities here for
party planners.

Friends and Fiddlers

By Catherine Drinker Bowen. Little, Brown and Com-
pany, Boston. $2.00.

NE NEED NOT be a musician to appreciate and enjoy

this delightful, gay book describing the joy, comedy
and desperation of a musical life! Into it enters the
human equation in music—amateur quartets, fiddlers,
wild—eyed cellists, wives who play violas and children
who hang the box. Here is a book well worth reading if
you would understand something of the “why” of musi-
cians and the power music wields in lifel

Recreational Development in the

‘ National Forests

By Kenneth O. Maugham. Technical Publication No. 45.

New York State College of Forestry, Syracuse, New
York. $.75.

WITH THE GROWING interest in our national forests and

their recreational uses, Mr. Maughan’s booklet
comes as a timely contribution. He presents in it the
results of a study of the present recreational use of the
national forests and a suggested plan for future develop—
ment, together with a recreational management plan for
the Wasatch National Forest in Utah. Not the least
valuable part of the study is the bibliography. There is
also an interesting section containing comments on rec-
reation within the national forests made by the forest
supervisors.

I

475 ‘

476 NEl/V PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Athletic Activities for Women and Girls

Spalding’s Athletic Library. No. 115R. $.25.

This year’s edition of the Athletic Handbook contains
the following sections: Athletic Games; Archery, Golf,
Tennis; Volley Ball; Intramural Tournaments; Track
and Field. The unusually large number of articles on
the various sports make this edition particularly valuable.
The book should be in the hands of every recreation
worker who is planning activities for girls and women.

A Manual for Instructors in Civilian

Conservation Corps Camps

Prepared by the Vocational Division. United States
Office of Education. Government Printing Office,

Washington, D. C. $.10.

This manual has to do with the responsibilities of camp
instructors who are concerned with the educational pro-
gram of CCC camps and methods and devices for ef-
ficient teaching. Detailed suggestions are given for
teaching a lesson, for teaching learners to think, and for
planning for efficiency in teaching. The final chapter has
to do with success factors of an educational program.
The Vocational Division has prepared manuscripts for
sixteen publications which will be issued within the next

few months.

“Kit” 38.
Edited by Lynn and Katherine Rohrbough. Published
by Lynn Rohrbough, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

In this issue of the “Kit” Mr. Rohrbough announces
that in future numbers it is desired to include permanetly
valuable ideas rather than entertainment of passing in-
terest. He invites all who have found satisfaction in the
fine arts, crafts, folk games and dances, and nature hob—
bies to share them through the “Kit.” This issue has an
interesting section on “Guideposts to the Use of Leisure”
in which Katherine Rohrbough discusses values in lei-
sure activities. There are a number of international

games, some group games and stunts, and a song sheet
insert.

The Potomac Trail Book

By Robert Shosteck. Hiking Editor, The Washing-
ton Post, Washington, D. C. $.50.

This guide to the trails of the upper Potomac Valley
is an attempt to meet the pressing need for a guide for
hikers, naturalists, and the thousands of office-ridden
VVashingtonians and visitors who enjoy tramps afield on
week-ends. Practical information is given regarding the
accessibility of the trails by street car, bus, automobile
and canoe, and a great deal of data is presented about
places of historic and scenic interest.

Art

By Elizabeth Robertson, National Chairman, Art,
National Congress of Parents and Teachers. Pub-
lished by National Congress of Parents and Teach-
ers, 1201 Sixteenth St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

$.05.

In this pamphlet Miss Robertson has given us helpful
suggestions for a number of hobbies under the classifica-
tions, “Doing Things,” “Creating Things,” “Collecting

Things,” and “Learning Things. A bibliography is in-
cluded. '

Handbook of Educational Work-and-Play Materials
For the Mothers and Teachers of Young Children

Educational Playthings, Inc., 20 East 69th Street,
New York. $.35. .

Every mother or leader in activities for small children
will find this catalogue a fascinating publication. Not
only is the play material listed, but general information
on the various types of material is given and their values
are pointed out.

    
 
     
   

STATEMENT OF THE O\VNERSHIP, MANAGEMEN
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT 0
CONGRESS OF MARCH 3, 1933, of RECREATION, publislie
monthly at New York, N. Y., for October 1, 1935.

STATE or New YORK,
COUNTY 0? New YORK. 5:.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and count
aforesaid personally appeared H. S. Braueher, who, having bee
duly sworn according tO law, deposes and says that he is th
editor Of RECREATION and that the following is, to the best of hi
knowledge and belie . a true statement of the ownership, man
agement (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the afore
said publication for the date shown in the above caption. re-
quired by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in Postal Law
and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

l. That the names and addresses Of the publisher, editor, man-
aging editor, and business managers are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York, N. Y.

Editor:  S. Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York, N. Y.

Managing Editor: Abbie Condit. 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

Business Manager: Arthur Williams, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name
and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the
names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per
cent or more Of total amount Of stock. If not owned by a cor-
Oration, the names and addresses of the individual owners must
be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated
concern, its name and address, as well as those of each individual
member, must be given.)

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue. New
York. N. Y.

Mrs. Edward “I. Biddle, Carlisle, Pa.: William Butterworth,
Moline, 11].; Clarence M. Clark. Philadelphia, Pa.; Henry L.
Corbett. Portland, Ore.; Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer,NIacksonville,
Fla,; F. Truhee Davison. Locust Valley, L. I., . Y.; Mrs.
Thomas A. Edison, West Orange, N. 1.: John H. Finley, New
York N. Y.; Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Md..; Austin E. Grifliths,
Seattle, Wash.: Charles Hayden, New York, N. Y.; Mrs. Charles
V. Hickox, Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. Francis deLacy Hyde,
Plaintield, N. 1.; Gustavus T. Kirby, New York, N. Y.; H. McK.
Landon, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Charles D. Lanier, Greenwich,
Conn.; Robert Lassiter, Charlotte N. C.; {,oseph Lee, Boston,
Mass.; Edward E. Loomis, New Yerk, N. .: J. H. McCurd ,
Springfield, Mass.; Otto T. Mallery, Philadelphia, Pa.; Walter .
May, Pittsburgh, Pa.: Carl E. Milliken, Augusta, Me.; Mrs.
Ogden L. Mills, lVoodhury, N. Y.; Mrs. James W. Wadsworth,
Jr., Washington. D. C.: J. C. Walsb, New York, N. Y.; Frederick
M. Warburg, New York, N. Y.; Jobn G. \Vinant, Concord, N. H.;
Mrs. \Villiani H. \Voodin, Jr., Tucson, Ariz.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security
holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more Of total amount Of
bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so
state.) None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names Of
tbe owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain
not only the list Of stockholders and security holders as they ap-
pear upon the hooks Of the company but also, in cases where the
stockholder or security holder appears upon the books Of tbe com-
pany as trustee or in any otber fiduciary relation, the name Of
the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is
given; also that the said ‘two paragraphs contain statements em-
bracing affiant's full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances
and conditions under which stockholders and security holders
who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold
stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona tide
owner; and this afliant has no reason to believe that any other
person,_association, or corporation has any interest direct or in-
direct in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so
stated by him.

. 5..That the average number Of co ies Of each issue Of this pub-
lication sold or distributed, tbroug the mails or Otherwise, to
paid SIEbSCI’lel'S,. during_the months preceding the date shown
ahtlive) is (This information is reQuired from daily publications
on y.

H. S. Buncazn.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 26th day of Septem-
ber, 1935. ;

[siesta] Minisu DOCHTERMANN,
Notary Public, Nassau County.

Nassau County Clerk’s NO. 2065. Certificate Filed in New York
County. Clerk's NO. 664. Register’s No. 6D410. My commis-
sion expires March 30, 1936.

