BEAUTY AS A WAY OUT

An Interview with Joseph Lee

effective in their ushing that they had caught all the cod they could use be-

fore the nsh would spoil. Suppose they had tremendous supplies of corn
ahead. What would they do? They would not go on fishing to throw the nsh back
in the sea. They would not raise corn to burn. Feasting and sleeping could not go
on forever. They would be faced with unemployment.

SUPPOSE in the old days a tribe of Indians on Cape Cod found themselves so

 

Then for a time they could build more canoes and paddles and more wig-
wams and more spears, but soon there would be an end for them of more things.

What next?

The Indians would begin to make their canoes, their paddles, all that be-
longed to them more beautiful. In such a world with want abolished the Indians
would devote part of their time to art. Beauty in various forms would receive in- '
creasing attention—beauty of form, beauty of sound, beauty of color, beauty of

action.

In a simple organization of society with food and materials abundant a way
would be worked out so that all might do the things they really wanted to do.
There would be a chance for more abundant living, for recreation, education.

Whether the number of unemployed in the United States is nine million or
less, it is many millions too large. Work must be found. Youth in America must
not wait, as have youth in certain other countries, for ten years without ever hav—
ing had a real job. Beauty in living—cared for—given adequate attention, can
create opportunities for millions to be employed in education, recreation, art.

More employment must be found—shorten the hours of work much as you
will. May not beauty be the way out? May we not give enough hours to the beau-
tiful to create the minimum of employment needed to secure a wise distribution of
income such as will make possible a return of prosperity?

Abundant living, gracious living, creation of the beautiful assumes funda—
mental importance.

Recently a body of distinguished men met at a great university to consider
what ten men should be chosen for spec1al honor. Not one of the men 11sted had

worked in fields related to the art of living. Surely right now they contribute most
who contribute to the art of living, who follow the things that happen to human
beings in relation to beauty. Discoveries for the production of more goods are not
so important as discoveries for producing more living. If we were as wise in our
generation as a tribe of Indians in theirs we would recognize that they do most

for us now who do most for the art of living.
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

SEPTEMBERI935

 

281

.  9 v '
‘ .. _ _ 4

 

Courtesy The Parents’ Magazine Photos by Haas-Schreiuer

The well-known picture at the top ot the page showing tour-
year-olds enthusiastically singing "America" was taken on a
San Francisco playground in l922. Below is the same quar-
tette—all high school students now—who were recently re-
discovered and re-photOgraphed in their original pose.

282

l Ways to Musical Good Fortune

By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG

National Recreation Association

life of people in recreation centers, adult edu-

cation centers, settlements, Young Men’s and
W'omen’s Christian and Hebrew Associations,
Scouts and other social agencies has, at least
among the officials of these agencies, been in-
creasing markedly during the past few years.
The large number of unemployed musicians
who have been engaged through emergency
relief funds to lead and teach groups in singing
and playing has added still more to that inter-
est and has greatly intensified the need for
guidance in leading and teaching. In Farm
Bureaus, Homemakers’ Clubs, 4-H Clubs and
other groups of rural men, women and. young
people there has been, perhaps, an even larger
increase in musical interest. Home Demonstra-
tion leaders, 4-H Club leaders and other per-
sons in charge of federal and state agricultural
extension service have had much to do with
this development and are eager for guidance
in furthering it. Some of the many parent-
teacher associations, woman’s clubs, and other
organizations concerned especially with home
life are evidently thinking more definitely and
urgently about the needs and opportunities for
such values as music can give to the home.

The enormous developments in the repro-
duction of music through radio, phonograph
and film, throwing many professional musi-
cians out of work while more young people
than ever are learning to play well, have
brought forth no end of fervent speeches, arti-
cles and books pointing out the need and the
great opportunity for a large development of
amateur music in America. And the present
greatly increased attention to ways of spend-

ing leisure time most
satisfyingly is probably
a s t r o n g additional
stimulus in all this
growth of interest.
Wherever such inter-
est exists there are ques-

I NTEREST in music for its values in the everyday

.tions as to what can be done to help people find

the satisfactions that music can give. Before we
can answer these questions with any real un-
derstanding and effectiveness we must con-
sider what satisfaction, what values, we are to
look for in music. A great deal of time, energy
and money has been wasted or only poorly
invested in musical activity whose purposes
defeat themselves or are sadly limiting to the
scope and length of life of the activity itself
or to the number of people appealed to by it.
Some values, if set up as aims, will lead us to
give all our efforts to organizing choruses,
orchestras and bands or big festivals, or to the
common variety of community singing, or to
providing more professional concerts for
people, or to all these. Other values will, with-
out necessarily turning us away from any of
these activities, influence fundamentally our
conduct of them and the relative importance
we attach to each of them, and lead us to in—
clude and, perhaps, give greater emphasis to
other activities. We do well to consider fully
what good fortune it is that we seek before

we take steps to find it.

The Good Fortune We Seek

Every fortune teller, be she palmist, astrolo-
gist or crystal gazer, will tell her patron that
he possesses good qualities and powers that he
has never fully realized or used. And in this
part of her “reading” she will always be right,
though in varying measure, and be really tell-
ing a fortune. Up to this point, and this point
only, every music leader is or should be a for-
tune teller, but one whose business it is to
help make such fortunes come true, not merely
to tell them. Zest, beauty, fellowship, fun,
freedom and strength of spirit, valor, a striving
for excellence, a deep self-respect—these are
fortunes that music can make come true.

Before we can help people find the satisfactions music
can give we must know what values to look for.
is an interpretation for those who would be of service
to others in their search for "musical good fortune.’

l-lere

«- 283

284 WAYS TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE

Man is a perpetual seeker
after these things, though
often a blind or misled one,
seeking them in his work, in
worship, in play, or, failing
in these, seeking them in ac—
tivities or mere entertain—
ments that are nothing but
diversions or else are posi-
tively'bad. In every man, woman and child
there is or has been this urge, like an only
half-told secret deep in his memory hinting
again and again of a fuller, more vital living,
but in many people rarely, perhaps never, find-
ing any real fulfillment, and so gradually los-
ing its force. The life that it without this urge
is poor indeed, no matter how great the ma-
terial success that attends it. For it is to the
whole being what appetite is to the body. It is
the primary essential to personal growth and
also to social progress. It is the key to good
fortune, to all that is great and good and most
lovable in life.

The most striking thing about this good
fortune is that a person can gain it only by los—
ing himself. He must find some interest or
activity which he can love for its own sake or
for its value to some cause outside himself,
and for the time being give himself generously
to it. Especially fortunate is the man or woman
who has found such an interest or activity in
his work; but even he, along with the multi-
tudes whose work seems to offer no such op-
portunity, may find still freer scope or at least
new, liberating channels for his best qualities
and powers in music or in some other art or
craft. And after such an experience even the
person who has hitherto had little interest in
his work may go back to it with a new zest
and effectiveness. This is because the deep, in-
spiriting urge toward the good fortune that
we have been describing has found its freest
and fullest expression in music and the other
arts, and they are therefore a chief means of
its survival and its nurture. “Poetry,” says
the poet Yeats, “is the champion and the voice
of the inner man. Had we not this champion
to speak for us, externality would swamp the
world, and nothing would be heard but the
noise of its machinery.”

To sing, play dance, draw, paint, make

handsome things of wood, clay, metal or linen,
to garden or to take part in a play or festival—

n

In a second article to appear in
RECREATION in the near future
Mr. Zanzig will outlineI as an aid
to music leadersI teachersI parents.
organizers and others interested,
some of the specific ways in which
the values and obiectives he has true-
presented here may be achieved.

these are activities, though

not the only ones, that have

often revealed the other half
' of that old secret and made

many a good fortune come
And nothing save a
lack of opportunity can keep
anyone from entering hap-
pily into one or more of
them. For the power to enter fully into such
as these and to respond appreciatively to any
of the everlastingly delightful literature, mu-
sic, drama, painting, hills, trees, stars and
other glories and simple boons in this incred-
ibly rich world, is in some measure the natural
heritage of every person. It is also—along with
our capacities for mutual helpfulness, love,
good humor and the other traits of good social
living—the ultimate wealth, the greatest unde-
veloped natural-resources, .of any community, '
family or other group fit to live in. And in
multitudes of people it still awaits proper and
adequate opportunity to awaken and grow to
happy fruition.

In this guide to giving such Opportunity
toward musical outcomes, it is well that we
have at the outset given music its rightful place
as part of a common natural heritage, because
many people still regard it as a special talent
given only to a few for display in concert halls,
opera houses and over the radio. Though in—
dividuals differ in degree of interest in it and
responsiveness to it, as they do in other mat-
ters, music is a natural and normal as speech
or as a love of the country, and it is or should
be no more dependent on public display than
is conversation or enjoyment of a sunset. Un-
der certain conditions we do well to encourage
the giving of concerts. Every community large
enough to suppont a school and a church
should have also its own very good chorus or
choir, its own orchestra or smaller instru-
mental ensemble, and its own band, each giv-
ing good concerts. And it should also have
opportunities to hear directly some of the best
soloists and groups in the country. But we
should as leaders know through experience
that music is first of all, and last of all, a way
of living, not something to be “put on,” as we
often say of a concert or of a musical “num-
ber,” and that good uses of it in the home, the
church, the school or the club can be more
rewarding than any except the best public con—

WAYS TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE 285

certs. These places can be the best of all for
artistic singing and playing of line music, as
well as for the humblest “sing-song.”

We should know also what happens when
music is fitly associated with occasions and
activities outside of itself that are or can be
of vital interest to people, such as Christmas,
the Spring, harvest time, a church service, love
of home and of country, and rhythmic work or
play: how the music deepens and brightens
the meaning of these, and is in turn made more
telling and appropriable because of them. It
is the singing of “Silent Night” and other
carols as we are gathered around the Christ-
mas tree, or of “The Messiah” or other great
Christmas music as we are gathered in a
church or auditorium, that reveals the deepest,
tenderest and otherwise inexpressible mean-
ings of that blessed season. And the same in—
tensiiied awareness and appreciation could at—
tend many another richly signihcant occasion,
activity or object which is now regarded as a
matter-of-fact affair or is completely over-
looked. It is as though the inertia and preoc—
cupations that dull or obstruct our vision of
things were drawn away by the music, as a
veil would be, and we really see and under—
stand. Surely a use of music that brings about
this “warm and intimate taking in of the full

ting on in the world tends to turn everything
into a means to something else, so that nothing
is seen for what it really is. Even people are
seen only as means. We lose not only the joy
of common things and great things but also
their real significance. Too much superficial
pleasure or sheer laziness may be even more
dulling to our sensibilities. “To ignore the
romance in love, in history, in games, in music,
or anywhere else, is,” says Dr. Richard Cabot,
“one of the easiest things in the world. One
has only . . . to refuse the task of looking be—
hind the obvious and relapse into sleepy liter-
alism. As one’s eyes grow fatigued with read—
ing, the letters cease to be symbols and become
letters only. Meaning, interest and beauty
die out of the words on the page. . . . . [Like-
wise] a baby is a lump of flesh, a symphony is
a long confused noise, a picture is a bit of dis-
colored canvas, a man is an ugly, featherless
biped, to any one who has not interest enough
to see more. . . . . All the experiences of our
devitalized moods are flat, colorless, meaning—
less and stale, and it is as easy to let ourselves
get devitalized as it is to dr0p our end of the
load which we are helping to carry.”

Only a generous pers'onal reSponse involving
imagination can reveal the full meaning of
anything. Compare, for example, a tennis ball

scope of a situation,” as John Dewey calls it,
is worth cultivating.
“The world is so full
of a number of
’things . . . . . ”

The business of get-

in a shop window with one in play in a lively
game. Indeed, even
the one in the shop
window is alive with
bright meaning to a
real player of the

The Symphony Orchestra at Bloomt'ieldl New Jerséy,
which has a reputation tor playing beautiful music.

Bloomfield also has a splendid Civic Chorus

 

286 _ IVAYS TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE

game. He knows what a ball really means.’
Or compare a tree as the commonplace, matter-
of-fact thing that it may often appear to be
with the same tree after we have seen it
through the eyes of an artist in a good draw-
ing or painting. Compare also a merely spoken
wedding performed in an office with one
pledged in a church amidst beauty of design.
color, ritual and music which bespeak the won-
der, sacredness and joy, the inner meaning, of
the event. Equally revealing is it to compare
a man seen only as an employee, selling his labor,
with that same man singing or dancing with com-
plete freedom and self—forgetfulness in a folk fes-
tival. Many a good community orchestra is com—
prised partly or entirely of amateurs representing
together almost every vocation in the city, and
sometimes at a rehearsal one will see such a trans-
formation or revelation as

we have been trying to de-

of it which Max Eastman in his book “The
Enjoyment of Poetry,” has shown very clearly.
He divides humanity into two classes which
are clearly distinguishable on any ferry-boat
crossing New York Bay from Staten Island to
New York City. If any one of the large pro-
portion of passengers who will be found on
the enclosed and visionless lower deck were
asked what he was doing on it, he would reply
at once, if at all (to so silly a question), that
he was, of course, going to the city. But on
that same boat a number of people have taken
the trouble to climb the steps to the upper
deck, from which there are fine views of the
bay, of great and smaller ships from far away,
of sea gulls and a much broader sky than city
folk usually see, and some other things, like
the Statue of Liberty and the city’s amazing
sky-line, that even when
familiar are always new

h

scribe. A man or woman
who, as he or she enters the
hall, appears as one beridden
and belittled by the world
outside, as one without what
is called “personality,” is
later seen seated amidst the
orchestra, his violin under
his chin, playing his part in
some great symphony or in
a fine rollicking waltz or
other liberating music, and
he is changed! We now see
in him a grace, dignity, valor
and lovableness which we

l'Art not only concentrates but intensi-
fies. It is a sort of transformer for step-
ping up the emotion normal to any situ-
ation to a higher voltage. Without the
chantey the pleasure of working in uni-
son would quickly grow stale. Without
the drums and the weaving rhythms of
the dance, courage and hate would never
reach their full intensity. Without the
intricate loveliness of its ritual the
church service might inspire reverence
but seldom ecstasy. Art in these rela-
tionships is not so much a beautifier as
a natural force that has been harnessed
and put to work. For that matter it is
everywhere and always a great‘ natural
force."—Carl Thurston in What is
Art For?

because of the effects on
them of the varying light
from day to day and hour
to hour. These upper-
deck people are taking in
the full scope of the 20-
minute ride. They are get-
ting the essence of it, en-
joying the process of it
to the full.

Learning to enjoy fully
the process of a worthwhile
activity, not only its end
results, is a large gain in
living which many people

had not seen before. This
change is largely due to ef—
fects of the music on the man himself. He has
been “brought out.” But the change is also due to

the music enabling us to see him better, more'.

vividly and more understandingly. We see him
with the inner eye, not merely the physical one.
This full and disinterested perceiving and
prizing of people and of things that are good
to prize makes even a poor man rich (if he
has also the physical needs of life), and with-
out it even the rich man is poor. And the
main points to be made about it here are (I)
that it is an attitude or capacity which can be
cultivated, and (2) that music is of all the
“daughters of enthusiasm,” as Emerson called
the arts, the best suited to cultivating it.
Before leaving this part of our musical good
fortune, however, let us look at another aspect

are missing. We should

-say re-learning, because
we had this attitude and power when we were
little children. If we enjoy only the end results
of our activities, our enjoyments will be few
and far between, but if we enjoy also, even
though in lesser measure, the activities them-
selves, enjoyment may attend our efforts all
the day, especially those efforts, be they work
or play, in which we are striving for excellence
of some sort. This is true even in work that is
very difficult and sometimes painful, as any
worthwhile work is likely to be. For there can
be no full or lasting enjoyment in a life that is
without pain and striving.

Now, this enjoyment of the process of doing
things is very natural and essential to music.
Singing or playing leaves behind it nothing to
see, touch, eat or sit on, not even to hear

WAYS TO [MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE 287

except in memory. Its na-
tural and best reward is a
state of mind 'or a state of
being which is gained only
as a by—product of entering
fully and self-forgetfully
into the process of the mu-
sic itself. That, incident-
ally, is why intense pro—
fessionalism with its set-
ting up of concert-giving and public acclaim as
primary ends is essentially unmusical and
tends strongly to destroy the values which are
the natural motives and rewards for music-
making. And that is why it is worth while to
recall those values as we are doing, always
remembering that enjoyment of the music
itself is the flrst of them and essential to all the
others. The others come only as by-products
of that enjoyment. Real music created and
performed for the love of it, without any
thought at all of any ulterior meaning or value
that it may have, is itself the purest expression
of the disposition by which one becomes a
member of the noble and delighted company of
upper—deckers. It can, therefore, be the best
teacher of that disposition. ‘

Drinker, J t.

Preserving the Sense of Worth in Ourselves

One of the boons that we included in our “for-
tune-telling” was a deep self-respect. In these
days when many people must feel belittled by
the terribly complicated economic and social
problems confronting us as a nation, some of
them seemingly beyond the power of man to
solve, our need to preserve a sense of worth in
ourselves is unusually great. That need must
be extremely acute among the unemployed and
the multitudes of other people who are near to
economic if not social failure, especially among
the young men and women who since their
school days have never had a chance to play
any such part in life as their vision and energy
have led them to expect and crave. But even
in the best times a wholesome sense in a per-
son of qualities and powers within him that are
estimable and expansible is essential not only
to his individual happiness and accomplish-
ment but also to the comfort and often even
to the well—being of the people around him. We
have already alluded to attainment of that
sense, in speaking of the man who, though he
appeared to be a belittled sort of person, took
on a dignity, grace and lovableness when he
played flne music in the orchestra. Any degree

"Enthusiasm. that is a grand word. Do
you know what it means? It comes from

two Greek words: 'en.' meaning within.
and 'theos,' God: the God that is with-

in you' tilled full with God. Amateur

enthusiasm! It you are a true lover of
musicI the God that is within you will
malce it beautifulI though

the voice of a bulltrog."—-Hem‘y S.

of skill in singing or play-
ing, especially in a group,
may save the self-respect
of a person who, for some
reason or other, has been
made to feel very inferior.
The personnel of a commu-
nity chorus or orchestra is
likely to include people of
the lowliest jobs, or no
jobs, as well as people of the most respected
vocations. And when the chorus or orchestra
achieves a flne effect, even the least skilled per-
son in it shares fully in the thrill of it. Though
he be a very humble member it affects him as
though it were an expression of his own
powers.

you have

But it is a common experience that even
apart from any sense of skill, music of flne,
expansive feeling and excellence, though it be
but a simple folk-tune, gives us a sense of inner
worth and well-being. We say that it is flne
and expansive, gay or serene, noble, deeply
joyous, heroic, free, romantic or aspiring, but
these feelings are in ourselves, not in the mu-
sic. Were we not ourselves endowed with
these qualities, they could not exist for us in
the music. It is thus ourselves, our own good
qualities, that we are flnding in the music.
These are what the music awakens in us, re-
vealing to us what we are at our best.

This is why we often turn to music when we
want to raise the morale, as we say, of a group
or an individual. But at its best it goes much
deeper and with much greater enjoyment than
that purpose usually permits it to go. Morale-
builders have usually started with “Smiles,”
“Old McDonald,” and other “pep” songs, substi-
tutes for real enthusiasm, or just plain anodynes,
and have then found it hard to build any higher or
any more enjoyably. It may do very well in war-
time when life is completely and intensively
centered on defeating a very tangible enemy,
but it is hardly worth while in peace time
when our worst enemy is lack of inspiring
purpose and of life-fllling interests. If people
want to sing these songs and want also some
leadership in doing so, we should, of course,
help to have them sung with all the fun and
other satisfaction that they can give. But there
are better songs even to start with, songs in
which, and from which we can much more readily
“go places and see things.” And as we go we will

288 WAYS TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE

be on the lookout for the keen surprise of beauty
which may come even in simple though really
vital and substantial music that is sung or
listened to by musically untrained people.
Then we may be sure of some real morale-
building.

For beauty has a way of bringing a man to
himself, humbling him before its revelation of
a larger and greater life, but at the same time
exalting and stimulating him greatly by its
intimation of his power to enter into that larger
and greater life. Then all fears, petty schemes,
‘meannesses, selfish gain and self-pity or adul-
tation are seen in their littleness and the great
things of life—courage, idealism, generosity,
loyalty and real happiness—find their pr0per
place. Emerson must have had such an ex-
perience one day when he wrote in his Journal:
“Best of all is the admonition that comes to me
from a natural demand of beauty, so naturally
made, wheresoever her eye rests, ‘that our ways
of life, our indolences, indulgences and want
of heroic action are shamed. Yet I love the
reproof. When that which is so fair and noble
passes, I am enlarged, my thoughts grow more
spacious, the chambers of the brain, the loves
of the heart, are bigger.” '

Let us remember these things as we plan
for musical developments. Let us remember
also that music flourishes best where there is
freedom of spirit and a sense of fellowship and
social security, the feeling on the part 'of every
one that he “belongs” to the group, which is
a feeling greatly needed by many people, es-
pecially among the unemployed, and more
readily aroused by. music than by any other
mode of expression. Furthermore, there is a
kind of magic in group music-making by which
even the person of little skill or, in singing, of
no skill at all, can find in it some measure of
the keen delight of making beauty. It is amaz-
ing how much better an unskilled group can
sing than any person in it could do alone. Add
to this experience of heightened expression the
growth in skill and understanding that are
readily gained through alert team-play in pur-
suing some real, first-class music, however
simple it be, and you have an enterprise that is
as adventurous, dashing and enjoyable as any
in the world.

- There should be free or inexpensive oppor-
tunity for every kind and degree of musical
activity through which such good fortune as

we have described might be made to come true.
The broad field of musical enjoyment and in-
spiration is for everyone who is interested in
it, and also for everyone who might be inter-
ested in it. And it is for a lifetime, not only
for the years of full vigor; its delights growing
richer as we grow older.

Are We Leaders or Followers?

This plea for free or inexpensive musical
opportunity may be answered in many a city
and town by the statement that there is very
little or no interest in music in that commu-
nity. The plea is even there fully justifiable.
A chief purpose of every opportunity must
then be to arouse interest in music. Leadership
in recreation, adult education, music or in any
other field of leisure-time interest does not
consist only in providing for those activities
that large numbers of people already want or
most readily inp into. That sort of leadership,
though it can present impressive reports as to
the numbers of people that have participated
in the activities, might better be called “follow-
ship.” The real leader starts with interests that
people already have, but his greatest desire and
carefully planned endeavor is to see through
how increasingly engaging and enjoyable an
area of experience the individual or group can
go in following the ready-made interest.

Almost anyone can lure large numbers of
pe0ple to a show or sharply competitive sport,
to social dancing of a common sort, to a “stunt
night” or simple game, or get a crowd to bellow
some trivial song; but the real leader knows how,
through such an interest, an increasing number of
people can find for themselves the keener fun and
deeper satisfactions of getting into worthwhile
plays, into intrinsically satisfying sport skills of
their own, into songs and singing that can give
even the least skilled person a taste of real happi-
ness, and into other activities in which there is
room for real growth. He knows also that even
though an activity attract only a few people
and be tucked away in a small room, the enjoy-
ment of those people may be of greater worth
than all the amusement of a multitude. And
as they tell their friends about it, the group
will gradually grow.

The good fortune we all seek does not fall
into our laps as we sit idly by or as we take
in some trivial activity. Not even ordinary

(Continued on page 324)

The Recreation Renaissance

HEN THE Civilian Conser-
antion Corps came into re-

ality in April, 1933, this
country’s recreation efforts were
reenforced with man-and—
money power which, in
two years, have advanced
these efforts fifty. In the
next two of what may
well become the perma-
nent years of this unique
organization, it is natural
to conclude this advance-
ment can round out a cen-
tury.

Let those who doubt
this statement go into the back country, look at
what has been done and imagine such achieve—
ments in less than this half-century without
the force of the Corps.

This rather amazing accomplishment is the
significant result of directing a great part of
this force at the development of state and
county parks—smaller, more numerous, more
accessible recreation areas to supplement the
magnificent national parks. This plan cap-
tured the fancy of the people from the start.
It is one thing to save timber and land, but
quite another to build lakes and cabins and
trails to the peaks. Because it combined con—
servation of resources for economic security
and enjoyment of these resources in the fur-
therance of human happiness, the park phase
of the Emergency Conservation \Vork pro—
gram took on great popularity and scope of
project. '

The Dream of Years Becomes a Reality

\Vhen, on that April day, word that the Civil-
ian Conservation Corps would be established
reached the offices of the National Park Ser—
vice on the fourth floor of \Vashington’s Inte—
rior building, those who had sat in offices and
studied the waste of resources, or on Sequoia
stumps had day-dreamed of the coming of such
a force, realized immediately that in this CCC,
this first of the alphabetical bodies, was pre-

By FANNING‘HEARON
State Park Division
National Park Service

 

There is real romance in the
story of the history and de-
velopment ot the great park
movement and the work now
being done through the emer-

gency conservation
which has increased state and
county park acreage by more
than halt a million acres of land.

s e n t e d the opportunity for

which conservationists and

park planners had waited since

thoughts ran in these direc-
tions.

The Department of the
Interior, through the Na-
tional Park Service, was
ready. By virtue of the
very fact they had been
marked for salvation and
set apart from the world,
the national parks in all
their vast and everlasting
beauty were not to absorb
so much of the dynamic

rush which stirred this remarkable movement,
but the nation’s need for smaller parks was
crying in a neglected wilderness.

Director Arno B..Cammerer of the National
Park Service was named a member of the
Emergency Conservation \Vork advisory coun—
cil to meet with Director Robert Fechner, vet-
eran labor executive, appointed head of the
program by his friend, Franklin Roosevelt. At
once Mr. Cammerer knew that here was a job
for his branches of planning and forestry. Chief
Forester John D. Coffman took over the CCC
companies assigned to the national parks and
monuments and under Assistant Director Con-
rad L. Wirth, of the branch of planning, the
Conservation Corps streamed into the state and
county parks. Herbert Evison, Executive Sec-
retary of the National Conference of State
Parks and an experienced state park authority,
was called in by Mr. Wirth and no time was
lost in setting up five district offices with an
officer and a few inspectors for each district.
Applications for projects were asked for and
received overnight. In a few weeks 105 con-
servation corps units were developing state and
local parks in 26 states.

Thus the idea of a vast park development,
first conceived in the mind of the late great
Stephen Tyng Mather, founder of the National
Park Service, became a reality. There were
to be state parks and county parks; metropoli-

289

program

290 THE RECREATION RENAISSANCE

tan parks and parks along the highways; places

for the pe0ple to go into the hills and along
the streams of rural retreat; places for them to
go down to the good earth and be comforted
by the abundance of peace and quiet which
came out of the Beginning of All Things.

The climax had come of Stephen Mather’s
years of dreaming and planning, of coming
upon places which made him say: “Certainly
there must be others who enjoy these things
as much as I,” but with that peculiar tragedy
of life which so often takes men away before
their hopes find realization, did not live to see
his ship with the white sails come home.

Deve10pments Are Rapid

\Vhen the second six-months conservation
work period began on October I, 1933, such
interest in park development had been injected
into the states that the number and worth-
whileness of the project applications on hand
demanded that 239 CCC companies be placed
on areas in 32 states. In half a year the size
of the program had more than doubled. Six
months later the project needed 268 companies
in 40 states, and when the fourth period began
in October, 1934, the state and county recrea—
tion areas were employing 346 companies in
41 states. Today, under the expansion program
doubling of the Corps to 600,000 boys between

 

Courtesy National Park Service

18 and 25 and war veterans has made it pos-
sible to assign 482 units to projects in 46 states
——100,000 men working to make places for peo-
ple to rest and play.

Meanwhile Conrad \Virth, Herbert Evison

and a handful of stenographers have become
an important organization standing on its own
strong young feet, covering three floors in
\Vashington’s downtown Bond Building, head—
ing for some sort of permanency under the des-
ignation, “State Park Division, National Park
Service, Department of the Interior.” Many
a young man has been brought in from VVash—
ington and the field to help carry on the w0rk,
and the five little cubbyhole district offices
have given way to the increased efficiency and
formality of eight regions, with offices in
Springfield, Mass., Bronxville, N. Y., Rich-
mon(l, Atlanta, Indianapolis, Oklahoma City,
Omaha and San Francisco. Architects, land-
scape architects, engineers, artists, foresters,
wildlife technicians, biologists, historians, con-
servationists, professional park and recreation
planners-—-—all with advanced educations, years
of experience and the resulting reputations——
have been brought into the picture.

Encouraging indeed is the keen apprecia-
tion of the value of the program which has de—
ve10ped within the states. New Y0rk, Calif0r-
nia, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio and a few others
I like these, with park

programs under' way,

took hold of this new
opportunity and were
swept along. States
with no programs sud-
denly f o u n (1 them-
selves face to face
' with one of the im—
portant Federal aid

projects of all ti m e

and immediately set

a b 0 u t doing some-

thing about it.

In the two years

since ECVV began in

The tasks ‘to which
the CCC workers de-
vote themselves rep-
resent a wide range
of u s e t u | projects

THE RECREATION RENAISSANCE 291

the Recovery Ad-
ministration’s en-
ergetic spring of
1933, seven states
have acquired
their first park
properties. They
are Virginia, West
Virginia, S 0 u t h
Carolina, Missis-
sippi, New Mexi-
co,'Nevada and
Montana. Besides
these newcomers,
evidence of t h i s
recreation renais— ,_ *
sance is found in i
the two d o z e n
states which have
secured new parks
or additions to
parks.

In November, 1934, when the National Re—
sources Board made its requested report to
President Roosevelt the recreation division’s
figures revealed that in the then 18 months of
Emergency Conservation Work the nation’s
state park acreage had increased 376,849 acres.
Obviously this addition can be attributed to
the interest created by the movement. In the
next five months the momentum the pr0gram
had gained piled 81,000 more acres on to this
total, and today, in the face of the program’s
expansion, indications are that another 70,000
have been acquired for development by the
new Corps companies. This estimated 527,849
acre increase lifts the nation’s state and county
park acreage to about 3,650,000, an area nearly
as large as New Jersey. Two million of these
acres are in Adirondack State Park, New
York’s “daddy of them all.” Almost half the
national acreage is under CCC development,
satisfactorily developed, or pending develop-
ment.

According to this National Resources Board
report, in 1933 thirty—two states acquired 65
new parks .and added to 27 old areas. In 1934
the new parks totaled 51 and the additions 26.
Texas, with a 247-229 acre increase in her park
pr0perties in 1933, supplied two—thirds of that
year’s total. This tremendous acquisition was
made possible by the addition to her system of
225,000 acre Big Bend State Park in Brewster

Courtesy National Park Service

 

Yosemite National Park has the distinction
of being the oldest State park in the world

County do wn in
the sweeping el-
bow of th e Rio
Grande.

Second to Tex-
as, in 1933 cam e
California with
seven new state
parks and six ad-
ditions to old
parks containing
28,683 acres. Vir-
ginia was third

' with 15,374 acres
in six new parks,

and Oklahoma,
with Lake Mur-
ray State Park’s
13,111 acres, stood
fourth. The 1934
1 a n d acquisition
leader was West
Virginia with two new parks and one addition
totaling 12,940 acres. California again ran sec-
ond, this time with 8,003 acres in four new
parks and three additions. Mississippi, with
4,380 acres in four new parks, is third, and
Alabama stands fourth with 4,364 acres in five
new parks.

The South’s awakening to the need for these
state park conservation—recreation areas is
amazing. In the two years the Southern states
acquired 48,748 acres, all but about 5,000 acres
of them in new parks in the first few months
of 1934. New England, the Northwest and the
Midwest come under the head of those sections
which were not subject to so much of the re-
cent increase. California, also in this class,
stands out for the deliberate manner in which
she goes forward with her conservation-recrea-
tion planning regardless .of emergencies and
awakenings.

Park History Signincant

Seventy years after it began, when Congress
gave California the Yosemite Valley in 1865 as
the war between the states came to a close, the
state park' movement is living the most excit—
ing years of its existence. It had been rather
slow at first, but now its history moves swiftly.

It has been an interesting; significant his-
tory. Administration of the Yosemite Valley
as a park was delayed ten years until 1875, and

292 THE RECREATION RENAISSANCE

then Congress took it back and it became the
world-known Yosemite National Park. In an-
other ten years there was more action: New
York set aside the Adirondack State Forest,
which has come to be known as the Adiron-
dack State Park, and the Niagara State Reser-
vation; Michigan set apart for salvation his-
toric old Mackinac Island, far up in the Great
Lakes country.

In 1895 the movement repeated for the third
time its ten-year activity interval when New
York again took the lead, this time establishing
the nucleus of what was to become the great
Palisades-Interstate Park, lying along both
banks of the Hudson in New York and New
Jersey. Soon other states —-— Massachusetts,
New Hampshire, Ohio and Illinois—came into
the picture. In 1921 in Des Moines, Iowa, the
movement received formal recognition, when
in that Midwestern city in January there gath-
ered a group of distinguished and enthusiastic
conservatiOnists and park planners to organize
the National Conference on State Parks. Crea-
t10n of this body was largely the result of the
dreams and activities of Stephen Mather, who
conceived the idea and talked about it so much
to his friends it found its way to reality. First
chairman of. the Conference was the late John
Barton Payne, also chairman of the American
Red Cross. Obviously the fundamental good
sense of this plan to. make possible the more
abundant life appealed to men who mattered.

Judge Payne held this position until 1927,
when he resigned to be succeeded by Mr.
Mather. Meetings of the Conference have been
held every spring or summer since that Janu-
ary in 1921. This year’s
chairman is Indiana’s col-
orful grand old man of
conservation, C o l o 11 e1
Richard Leiber, and this
year’s meeting place, Sky-
land, Virginia, in the
Shenandoah N a ti o n a 1
Park, June 19 to 21st.

How the Program
Operates

Actual conduct of work
in the p a r k emergency
conservation program fol-
lows a definite plan. The
regional officers and their

OBJECTIVE, NATIONAL CONFERENCE
ON STATE PARKS

"To urge upon our governments, localI
county, state and national, the acquisi-_
tion of additional land and water areas
suitable for recreation, for the study ot'
natural history and its scientific aspects,
and the preservation of wild liteI as a form
of the conservation of our natural re-
sources, until there shall be public parksI
forests and preserves within easy access of
all the citizens of every state and territory
of the United States' and also to encourage
the interest of non-governmental agencies
and individuals in acquiring, maintaining
and dedicating for public uses similar
values and uses of recreational areas."

inspectors are personal representatives of
\Vashington, who direct the work in the camps
and make contacts with the park and conserva-
tion authorities in the various states. Some of
these authorities, without whose cooperation
there could be no park program, act as pro-
curement officers for the projects in their indi-
vidual states.

Over each project is a superintendent, well—
trained and experienced, representing the Na-
tional Park Service as personal supervisor of
work and directly responsible to that organiza-
tlon’s State Park Division. Under the superin—
tendent are eight foremen, usually older men
with sound technical knowledge and enlisted
from the local community. With their own
eyes these eight men watch the enrollees as
they work.

A foreman skilled in log-cabin construction
will be with the boys erecting the recreation
lodge; a plumber will supervise the installa-
tion of water and waste disposal systems; the

_carpenter will mount the cabin’s roof to direct

H

the laying of hand-split “shakes. There are
206 enrollees in each regular CCC company.
For camp maintenance the stagger system is
employed in keeping 23 of these from the field.
\Vhile the men are at leisure they are under
supervision of the officers of the United States
Army assigned to the project. Officials are find-
ing much satisfaction in the splendid manner
in which the Army and the technical agencies
are cooperating in this extraordinary effort.

Many phases has this park movement. It has
come in contact with interesting individuals,
places and situations, and has become an im-
portant factor in social
and economic develop-
ment.

Palomar Mountain in
‘California, with an obser-
vatory on which will be
installed the ZOO-inch mir—
ror “which will bring the
moon so close buildings
could be seen upon it,”
lies within a state park.
T h e observatory w i l 1
stand on t0p of the moun-
tain about one mile from
the boundary of Palomar

Mountain State Park. The
whole area, as result of

The erection of shelter
and concession buildings
is one of the cons’ruc-
tion projects under way

the work of the Conser-
vation Corps, will be more
accessible, and installa-
tion of the great mirror,
now cooling in Corning,
New York, will be easier.

Development of recrea-
tional facilities looms
large in the TVA picture
with the assigning of Conservation Corps com-
panies to projects in the Knoxville, Muscle
Shoals and Wheeler Dam areas. Realizing
recreation is of vital importance to their pro—
jects, TVA authorities are cooperating splen—
didly with the National Park Service in ECW
to supply the facilities. When the region is
developed and thousands of people have come
there to spend their lives, there will be avail-
able parks in which they may spend these lives
more abundantly, for that is the aim of the
movement.

In its 1934 report the Milwaukee County
(Wisconsin) Park Commission—an outstand-

ing organization of its kind—-went formally on
record to this effect in its expression of appre—
ciation of Emergency Conservation Work on
its projects under supervision of the State Park
Division :. '

“Of all government activities to relieve pres—

ent economic conditions—the ECVV movement
has met with greatest favor—.”

And, in giving an account of the work on
famed Honey Creek Parkway:

“\Vork accomplished in this unit of the
Parkway is one of the finest examples of what
ECVV camps, under proper direction, can per-
form—.”

So interested became the Hereford, Texas,
Lions Club in Hereford State Park not far
from that town, it put in effect a regulation
assessing a fine of 50 cents on every member
who does not visit the park between club meet-
ings. The fine money—what little there is,
for most members take this weekly visit seri-

THE RECREATION RENAISSANCE 293

 

ously — goes to purchase young trees to be
planted in the park.

Erosion control work in Brand Park above
the city of Glendale, California, saved that com-
munity from a recurrence of the damaging
floods which have swept down upon it in years

past
Ten Conservation Corps companies under

National Park Service supervision are reclaim-
ing the Midwest’s famed Skokie marshes sev-
eral miles northwest of Chicago. Development
Of the area’s 1,200 useless, mosquito-infested
acres into a Cook County recreation area is,
in magnitude, the State Park Division’s No. I
project.

A park, as it is developed, has its timber
tracts improved and protected, its topography
'saved from erosion and flood, its most adap-
table acreage cleared for camp grounds and
picnic areas.

Under the experienced park service super-
visors and the park authorities of the states,
the Conservation Corps is constructing foot,
horse and vehicle trails and bridges; simple
shelters, picnic tables, outdoor fireplaces, log
cabin communities, recreational lodges, and
places for boating, swimming and controlled
fishing. Most state parks contain that highly
valuable resource, scenic beauty, and the de-
veloped areas are so arranged that use of the
Park will be concentrated and the majority of
its acreage left untouched so this scenic beauty
and the area’s wildlife may go on unmolested.

When completed a park is left in the hands
of the state or county in which it is located, to
be maintained and administered *by whatever

(Confirmed on page 324)

A Community-School Proiect

By ROBERT A. TURNER

Director of Recreation

RadburnI New Jersey

8 WE GLANCE over our communities and
A schools we find an increasing number pro-

viding recreational activities .for all groups.
With the increase of leisure there has been
a corresponding demand for opportunities of
spending spare time in activities of this nature.
Play and the “love of doing” have begun to
permeate the school life. More and more we
find the school including recreational activities
in its regular curriculum that provides a bal-
anced program or school day. Johnny is no
longer forced to sit from nine to twelve and
from one to four o’clock doing the three R’s
in drill routine. In our educational system we
lind play, action, laughter and even noise.
There is work, too, but one will find it hard
to decide where work begins and play ends.
Our schools are progressing in providing for
the well-rounded development of the child.

Many communities are sponsoring efficient
recreation programs. Trained workers lead
after—school and evening groups in a variety of
activities. Gymnasiums, parks, pools and audi—
toriums represent examples of the various fa-
cilities involved in
the administration
of these commu-
nity recreation
programs.

While the growth
and popularity of
recreation interest
represent a com-
mendable attitude

In addition to the

playground an out—
door swimming pool .

has been provided

294

The interesting experience of
a town where school and com-
munity pooled their resources

of mind on the part of adults in general, the
condition also creates some problems. Partic-
ularly is this true in the case of the elementary
school pupil. If the community and school
develop programs on parallel lines, there is
certain to arise duplication both of facilities
and purposes. A situation exists in many com-
munities in which the school program or the
community program is well established at the
expense of the progress of the other, and con-
sequently a wide gulf exists between the two.
A logical situation is one in which the commu-
nity and school coordinate their efforts in
providing a unified educational program. With
such organizatioh in mind, let us visit a com-
munity where a plan is being operated along
these lines.

Where Community and School C00perate

Radburn, located within commuting dis-
tance of New York City, and having a popula-
tion of fourteen hundred, is a comparatively
“new” town. The community was started in
1929 with the expressed purpose of providing

 

A COMMUNITY-SCHOOL PROJECT 295

for city workers the wholesome experiences of
community life. The community maintains a
year-round recreation program which includes
all of its four hundred and fifty children who

are of school age.

Two full—time workers employed by the
community conduct recreational activities for
children of first grade age and above. Two swim-
ming pools and a playground program occupy
most of the children’s time during the summer
months. During the winter months after-
school groups meet for gymnasium classes,
handicraft, dramatics, outings and similar ac-
tivities.

\Nith the opening of school in September,
1934, the elementary school, including all
grades, had an enrollment of three-hundred
and three pupils. While a majority of these
children were included in the community’s
program it was strongly felt by parents and
administrators that the school curriculum
should be expanded to include the activities
offered by the community, and the efforts of
both organizations coordinated in a unified
working plan. Largely due to the interest and
action of the parents such a program was es-
tablished. The after—school activities conducted
by the community were scheduled as regular
classes in the school curriculum. The recrea-
tion workers, while employed by The Radburn
Association, functioned as teachers and coop-
erated with the school faculty in carrying out
the program. A resume of this project reveals
the following characteristics:

Activity classes of a play or recreational
nature are scheduled for every grade but the
first. In the lower grades, from the second to
fifth inclusive, these classes meet every day
for thirty minutes. The grade teacher cooper—
ates with the community workers in formulat-
ing and supervising the program. Early in the
fall an activity program was furnished each
teacher which they carefully follow as an in—
troduction to the types of activities included.
Upon the completion of these programs each
teacher worked out a similar one for her par—
ticular grade. After following such a proced-
ure for seven months, the grade teacher is now
responsible for programming these’recreational
periods for her respective classes. Each class

meets out-of—doors, except when weather con-
ditions are unfavorable, when the group re—
mains in the class room where relays, guessing
games and similar types of adaptable play oc—
cupy the time.

In the higher grades (sixth, seventh and
eighth), forty-five minute periods are sched-
uled each day. The community workers are
directly responsible for the programming and
leadership of each grade. The woman worker
directs the activities of the girls while the man
supervises the boys’ work. In the fall and
early spring, weather permitting, all classes
meet out—of-doors. During the winter months
these classes’ meet in the community gymna—
sium which is a ten—minute walk from the
school. Activities of an advanced athletic type
are scheduled as far as possible and upon the
basis of the groups’ interest.

The health records of the school, established
through periodical examination by the school
doctor, are carefully checked by those in
charge to insure a complete knowledge of the

physical condition of the pupils.

Community facilities utilized by the school
in carrying out this phase of the program are
the gymnasium, playground, an outdoor swim-
ming pool and community rooms. Dancing
classes for the lower grade girls meet one ses-
sion a week in the community building. At
this time the boys of the same grade meet for
tumbling 'and tests of skills or coordinations.

The Club Program

A club program based on the interests of
the sixth, seventh and eighth grade pupils last
year functioned successfully for an eight—week
period. A forty-five minute period was set
aside once a week for the clubs to meet. Pupils
not desiring to participate in any particular
club were allowed to remain in their home
rooms. The clubs established were the volun—
tary selection of the group. Leadership of the
twelve clubs included four teachers. The re-
maining leaders were volunteers. Each club,
with the place of meeting, is given to illustrate
the variety of interest expressed and method
of accommodation adopted to provide for the
program.

296 A COMMUNITY—SCHOOL PROJECT

Club Place of Meeting
Music Club . . . . . . . . . . .. Lunch room
Dramatic Club . . . . . . . . .' 7th Grade room
Handicraft Club (boys). . Boiler room
Book Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . Office

First Aid Club . . . . . . . . . . Front of grade 6th

Newspaper Club . . . . . . . . Upper hall

_ Service Club . . . . . . . . . . . Foot of lower stairs

Sewing Club . . . . . . . . . . . Leader’s residence

Travel Club . . . . . . . . . . . . Foot of front stairs

Stamp Club . . . . . . . . . . . . Back of grade 6th
Current Events Club... . Teacher’s room
Art Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8th Grade room

Each club’s record of progress presents an
interesting picture. However, it is impossible
to relate the account here. Sufficient to men-
tion one incident later, and state here that the
program proved successful enough to be con-
tinued now in an after-school plan. This in-
cludes fifteen clubs, each meeting once during
the week in the school and in some cases, in
the homes of the leaders. The new clubs func-
tioning under this arrangement are dramatics,
(elementary), boxing, tumbling, bicycle, dance,
sewing (elementary), girl’s handicraft, and
acrobatics. The clubs that were discontinued
due to a change of interest on the part of pupils
are the boys’ handicraft, first aid, service,
travel and current events.

An interesting outgrowth of the activities of
one club is worthy of note. A group of twelve
boys met under the leadership of the janitor
of the school in a handicraft club. At the inau-
guration of this group, equipment available in
the school consisted of the janitor’s work bench
and several miscellaneous tools including a
hammer, saws, vise, and other tools.- The
possibilities of a handicraft program were out-
lined to the local Parent-Teacher Association.
They responded by raising funds to provide
lumber for work benches and to equip with
tools a wood—working shop on a small scale.
The club members 'then constructed work
benches which made possible later classes in
manual training. 1Woodworking classes now
meet once a week for boys, in each of the sixth,
seventh and eighth grades. On these days the
girls of each group meet for a cooking class
conducted by a resident of the community,
formerly a teacher of the subject, who has vol-
unteered her services.

Results Secured Through Cooperation

Those in charge are enthusiastic at the re-
sults-secured through a plan which coordin-
ates the facilities of the School and commu-
nity. Some of the results which are apparent
and others which are more intangible are:

I. The development of a cooperative rela-
tionship between the parents and the school.
This characteristic is shown in such activities
as the volunteer leadership of clubs, concern
of the Parent-Teacher Association in the pro—
gram and similar situations.

2. The program contributes to a balanced
school day. Study periods are interspersed
with activity periods while the after—school
hours are the child’s own for freedom of play
and expression.

3.. In the lower grades there is a new
teacher—pupil relationship established. The
teacher is not a symbol of drudgery but is
associated with the children in their play and
the things they like to do. This carries over
into classroom response. The teachers agree
their position is strengthened with the class.

4. Every child in the grades covered by the
program secures an opportunity to engage in
the activities. Before, while the percentage of
participation ran high in the community’s
after-school program, there was not the one—
hundred percent participation which is secured
in this type of an organization.

5. There is no duplication of programming
or over—lapping of facilities use. The same
leadership influences exist and a uniform set of
standards predominates.

6. The interest of the children in the pro-
gram has never waned. With other methods,
pupils approach these‘ activities at the end of
the school day mentally and physically fa-
tigued. In this situation, classes are included
in the regular school day and afford children
opportunities for expression and relaxation.

7. An arrangement of this type permits en—
richment of the curriculum to include such sub-

jects as clubs, handicraft, dancing, cooking and
other creative activities.

8. Finally, the fact may become recogni-
zable that such an arrangement marks a step
in the functioning of the school and commu-
nity as a united factor in the child’s life.

 

Hiram College Students Go Out of Doors

By ELEANOR FARNHAM

0 ONE WHOSE distant memories of “gym” are
Tof dumb-bell exercises laboriously executed

indoors by girls in voluminous bloomers, the
fire that destroyed Hiram College’s gymna-
sium last November would not seem to be an
unmixed disaster! Loss of the gymnasium
sent Hiram students out of doors where they
have been skiing, playing soccer on icy fields,
and building their hiking mileage up to 100
miles per man or girl. Being forced by neces—
sity to invent an outdoor prOgram, the Physical
Education Department at Hiram has gained

some experience that promises to affect the,

practise in other colleges.

By fall Hiram expects to have its gymna-
sium rebuilt. But winter sports have come to
stay at the college. After all, there is some-
thing about “coeducational tobogganing” that
is more exhilarating than Indian club drills or
setting up exercises. It is highly probable that
girls will continue coming to the Dean’s teas
dressed in knickers, boots and mittens, but
glowing from soccer in the snow and raven-
ously hungry. .

Immediately after the'lire the men students
were told that they would be expected to en-
gage in some outdoor activity at least twice a

 

When fire destroyed the gymnasium at
Hiram College last winterI driving the
students out of doors for their sports.
a new era was initiated at that institu-
tion." It is our opinion," states Herbert

C. Mathews, Director of the Physical

Education Department. "that a future
program of outdoor sports can be or-
ganized which will do away with the
wholesale hibernation of students as soon
as the mercury drops a few degrees."

 

week. They were encouraged to exceed this
minimum. Each man was responsible for re-
cording his attendance at the temporary head-
quarters of the Physical Education Depart-
ment. An exception was made for the varsity
basketball squad for whom a practise gymna-
sium was located in the region.

Here is the list of sports a resourceful di-
rector and a vigorous body of American col-
lege boys found for diversion and exercise:

Hiking Coasting

Volley Ball Calisthenics

Speed Ball Swimming

Deck Tennis Boxing

Ice Skating \Nrestling

Horseback Riding Cycling

Roller Skating Soccer 

Rope Jumping Hunting '
Football Billiards
Track Bbwling
Hand Ball Fencing
Basketball Skiing

Hiking leads the list of ac-
tivies in popularity with volley
ball and speed ball on outdoor
courts, hunting and skiing fol-
lowing. The basketball back-
boards were not destroyed by
the fire and they were set up
on an outdoor basketball court.
A toboggan and bob-sled were

"Coeducational toboganning'l is
a great deal more fun than are
drills or setting-up exercises!

297

298 HIRAM COLLEGE STUDENTS GO OUT OF DOORS

added to the equipment of the department.
Nearby ponds provided ice skating.

Each week the staff makes a check-up of the
individual records and calls in for conference
any student who is not engaging twice “a week
in some type of outdoor activity, or who is
confining his recreation to only one or two
activities. All students are encouraged to en—
gage in the scheduled outdoor group activities.
Thus far only one student has expressed the
wish to return to definite class periods.

Experience with the experimental program
showed the advisability of having regular
hours scheduled in the later afternoon at which
instruction can be given in a variety of outdoor
activities. Students are required to attend at
least one of these sessions a week. The rest
of the week he may select his activity, either
joining an organized group or adding to his
hiking mileage or his prowess on the skiis or
improving some other individual skill.

In the spring term tennis, golf, playground
baseball, track, archery and swimming will be
offered and the intramural sports program re—
sumed.

“We are cognizant of the fact that the wide
range of activities now on the list could not
be incorporated in a future program for any
one quarter if real instruction is to be given in
the activities,” Director Matthews recently re-
ported to the faculty. “But the experiment has
shown the advisability of making the program
more elective. The plan we are considering
would let the student select his physical edu—
cation activities from a group offered each
quarter. By the time the student had finished
the four semesters’ -Physical Education re—
quirement he would be ‘introduced to’ (and we
hope better acquainted with) at least eight
different activities. Included in the eight would
be several of high carry-over value for his after
college life. The plan of using the scheduled
class period for instruction would be adhered
to."

Miss Helen Petrosky, in charge of Physical
Education for women, has found her students
cooperative and enthusiastic over the outdoor
program. Indoor space was provided so that
classes in dancing and tumbling could be car-
ried on. The organized outdoor activities were
soccer, winter sports and hiking.

Approximately a third of the women stu—
dents registered for soccer and it has been

played on the football field twice a week. “This
is a vigorous activity in which it is possible to
keep warm in all kinds of weather,” according
to Miss Petrosky. The girls have dressed in
knickers, boots, sweaters, scarfs and mittens
and have shown considerable enthusiasm for
the sport. Not a scheduled period has been
cancelled and we have played at times in snow,
and on a very icy field. Teams have been
chosen and a t0urnament played off. Volley
ball on an outdoor court is next on the
schedule.”

Girls registering for winter sports are re-
quired to hike five miles a week or coast for
two hours. Twenty girls entered a marathon
hike to continue throughout the winter. The
goal of this hike is 100 miles.

Spring activities—tennis, baseball, archery
and hiking—will be organized as soon as wea-
ther permits.

A course in games suitable to children of all
age groups has a large enrollment because the
students know the knowledge will be useful
to them for elementary school teaching and for
playground or summer camp positions. A
study of the games is made with an eye to
their relative value and their suitability to dif-
ferent ages and groups.

The VVomen’s Athletic Assoc1atlon uas
grasped the opportunity to have its share in
the recreational program. With hiking recog-
nized by the Physical Education Department,
they distributed copies of a topographical map
of the region around Hiram so that the “mile-
age hounds” could keep a map record of their
tramps over the countryside. They have or—
ganized coasting parties, skating parties, stu—
dent-faculty hikes and informal game periods.
Meanwhile Miss P‘etrosky and the college
nurse are keeping a careful record of colds
reported.

Loss of its gymnasium has put Hiram’s
Physical Education program on a naturalistic
basis, perhaps more adaptable to after-college
life than one dependent upon elaborate equip-
ment. The year’s experience has enabled her
to contribute some experience to the recrea—
tional trend of physical education in America.
We prophesy that not even a new gymnasium
will tempt students from romping on Hiram’s
snowy hills next winter.

Chicago on Parade!

‘ By V. K. BROWN

{IE CHICAGO Recreation

Commission, cooperat—

ing with the National
Recreation Association,
plans to make the twenty-
first Recreation Congress a
demonstratiOn event.

Dr. Philip Seman is Chair—
man of the Chicago Recre—
ation Commission — an ad—
visory body appointed by
Mayor Kelly to enlist the
best citizen thought of the
city in long term planning
for the leisure of Chicago’s citizens. The Com-
mission is not an administrative body. It serves
rather to bring together representative citizens in-
terested in the community as a whole to consider
every aspect of recreational life in the Chicago
metropolitan district. Such citizens as Rufus
Dawes, who as President carried through the
great enterprise of the Century of Progress to a
successful conclusion; Judge John P. McGoorty
of the Circuit Court bench; Henry P. Chandler,
an outstanding attorney and civic leader; Presi-
dent Francis B. Corcoran of De Paul University;
Rev. Charles W. Gilkey, Dean of the University
of Chicago Chapel; Robert B. Harshe, Director
of Chicago Art Institute; President Robert M.
Hutchins of the University of Chicago; Peter J.
Peel, past President of the United States Football
Association and well known sportsman; Lorado

Taft, Sculptor; Arch Ward, Sports Editor of the.

Chicago Tribune; S. J. Duncan—Clark of the edi-
torial Staff of the Daily News; Samuel Knox
Wilson, President of Loyola University; Walter
Dill Scott, President of Northwestern University;
William J. Bogan, Superintendent of Schools;
Miss Grace Abbott, former Chief of. the Chil—
dren’s Bureau; Harriet Vittum, head Resident of
Northwestern University Settlement; Lea D.
Taylor of Chicago Commons; Mrs. M. L. Purvin,
Trustee of the Library Board; Mrs. William F.
Dummer, student and supporter of advanced edu-

Chicago has many interesting sights
to show those attending the National
Recreation Congress to be held trom
September 30th to October 4th. The
demonstrations ot recreation activi- , ,
ties and inspection tours to recrea- “11551011-

tion centers, playgrounds and parlts
will be supplemented by trips to the
cultural, art, 'and educational centers
ot the city' arranged by the Chicago
Recreation Commission ot whose ac-
tivities Mr. Brown tells in this article.

 

cational methods, and other
leaders of business, educa-
tional, social, and artistic
life of the community com-
prise the distinguished list
of members of this Com-

Speaking for the Com-
mission, Dr. Seman has so-
licited representation from
all of the numerous parent-
teacher groups, women’s
clubs, community improve-
ment associations and other
organizations in the Chicago community who are
interested in community life, to attend the con-
ference as delegates from the bodies which they
represent. The response of the social forces in
Chicago and of citizen organizations is such as
to assure visitors from other cities that not only
the public agencies serving the recreational needs
of the city will be acting as host, but that the en-
tire organized force of the city moving toward a
more abundant life, will be present.

Inspection Tours to Municipal Recreation
Centers

Theodore Gross, recognized as one of the senior
recreation executives of the country, has adminis—
trative responsibility for the system of munici—
pally owned and operated playgrounds under the
City Bureau of Parks, Playgrounds, and Beaches,
and has superintended the operation of the mu-
nicipal, as distinct from the park and the public
school system of playgrounds, c0ntinuously since
1907, to the writer’s personal knowledge. For the
convention, Mr. Gross will serve as chairman of
the committee planning inspection tours to cover
every type of recreational service institution
which the city affords. Itineraries are to be
printed or mimeographed, and each bus will be
provided with two conductors. Private cars are
also to be made available to enable visitors to go
to institutions not on the general party route, and

299

300 CHICAGO ON PARADE!

the tours have been planned to give at least a
bird's-eye view of all of the institutions of the
various systems of recreation service in Chicago.
Representative activities of all types will be oper—
ating on normal schedules, since the committee
feels that the visiting delegates would prefer to
see normal operations, rather than special exhibi-
tions. The only special schedule to be presented
visitors on these tours will be an arrangement
whereby the normal operation of the grounds and
institutions visited will provide a demonstration
of the complete range of activities. The gymnasi-
ums visited will plan their activities on the days
when the visitors arrive, so that girls in the gym-
nasiums will not happen at the moment when the
visiting delegates are present, all to be engaged in
tap dancing, for example. Rather, by pre-arrange-
1nent, some of the classes will present a normal
program of gymnastics, others of games, others
of the various types of dancing, or miscellaneous
physical activity representative of a comprehen-
sive program.

“Flash” Demonstrations

The Program Features Committee, under H. G.
Reynolds, is arranging this schedule, and is also
providing flash demonstrations to be interpolated
in the convention program proper by groups from
all of the institutions of the city promoting recre-
ational activity. No major spectacle, such as an
elaborate pageant, is planned, and no complete
drama, concert, or game, is scheduled. The at-
tendance at the convention, it is thought, will be
people with a professional interest in the full range
of modern recreation activities. A very brief view
of one figure in a dance, it is believed, will afford
such a professional audience a sufficient demon-
stration to enable them to visualize other figures
which are omitted to conserve time. Visitors will
not have time to spare for a complete puppet
show, but a three-minute demonstration by a group
of children manipulating their marionettes will
adequately portray the degree of development of
puppetry which has been attained by the children
involved in the demonstration. Throughout the
program such flashes of typical activities will be
presented.

Information and Consultation Service

Edward L. Burchard, Executive Secretary of
the Chicago Recreation Commission, will main-
tain among the exhibit booths a local information
service. Guests wanting to see the head of the

Jewish People’s Institute's famous ,dramatics de-
partment, to talk with him about some dramatic
problem in their own communities, will consult
this booth to make the necessary arrangements.
Similarly, those who desire to visit, because of
special personal interest, any local institution, will
find in constant attendance at this booth people
who will serve their individual requirements.

Mr. Walter Wright, Superintendent of the City
Bureau of Parks, Recreation, and Aviation, is
planning a consultation service whereby visitors
who wish to discuss technical problems may make
arrangements to meet with experts in the subject
matter about which they wish to inquire, whether
the subject be architecture, landscaping, sanitation,
inspection and repair, or any other of the highly
technical fields involved in modern recreation
service.

Hobbies, Arts and Crafts

Herman Fischer has so long represented the
Board of Education Playgrounds at previous
Congresses that he will require no introduction to
the majority of the visitors. Scattered through the
commercial exhibits, his local committee, in thirty
special booths, will have workers present demon-
strating some of the recent developments in
special recreation activities, particular emphasis
being placed on recreational hobbies, arts and
crafts. It has been thought advisable by Mr.
Fischer’s committee that these booths be in actual
operation, so that visitors may .consult with the
workers themselves on any technical processes or
problems which have arisen in their own systems,
and which they wish to talk over with experienced
workers familiar with the details of the subject.

Private and Public Agencies to Welcome
Visitors

In addition to the public agencies carrying on
under municipal auspices the recreation program
of the city, Chicago is exceptionally rich in in-
stitutions widely known for their value in the
leisure life of the city. Hull House is interna-
tionally famous, and at its side stand other social
settlements of the city, each with its own fine set
of traditions—Chicago Commons, which has seen
the devoted life-time service of Graham Taylor,
and where now his daughter, Lea, is carrying on
the work of her distinguished father, Northwest-
ern University Settlement, where Harriet Vittum.
and the University of Chicago Settlement, where
Mary McDowell, have lived their lives with sin-

CHICAGO ON PARADE! 301

gleness of purpose in neighborly cooperation with
the people of their communities—to mention only
a few of the settlement institutions.

The Public Library of the city has been singu-
larly successful through its numerous branches in
making itself a great force in the thinking, as the
Art Institute has in the art, life of the people. The
Garfield Park Floral Conservatory is famous not
alone for its magnificence in presenting botanical
specimens and the landscaping effects of its in—
ternationally known fern room; of recent years it
has carried on an educational lecture service of
great value and extraordinary popularity. The
Lincoln Park Zoo is a Chicago tradition, and the
new Brookfield naturalistic zoological gardens are
in the forefront of modern zoological develop-
ments. The Planetarium was the first American
institution to present artificially a breath—taking
demonstration of the workings of the universe,
where our own solar system is put through its
controlled paces, and the courses of the stars are
visibly demonstrated. The new Rosenwald Mu-
seum of Science and Industry, now enriched by
large additions following the Century of Progress,
is becoming a factor of great importance in ren-
dering understandable the complexities of mechan-
ical and scientific technology. The Chicago His-
torical Society, the Lincoln Park Academy of
Science, the local universities and the great in—
dustries and merchantile establishments, each has
a story to tell, and only recently have we gotten
around to doing something about the organizing
of local and visiting people to take them on tours
to see and to hear.

Tours of All Types

The Recreation Commission is now operating
such excursions, so that, for example, a group
may go with a personal pilot to the Field Museum
of Natural History and spend the day viewing
the products of the world’s cultures there assem-
bled, or studying the flora and fauna of all of the
continents, to be followed by a later tour through
the steel mills, a vsiit behind the scenes in Mar-
shall Field’s store, a bird’s-eye view of Chicago’s
skyline from the top of the Tribune Tower, or
a trip through the freight subway under the city’s
streets. The way in which we accomplish the
world’s work is no less interesting than the way
in which the Chicago Cubs play a ball game, or
the way in which the city operates street-end
beaches on Lake Michigan.

The Recreation Commission is developing this
piloted excursion service, and the response to the
announcement that this service is now available
has shown how eagerly the people living in the
city desire to know more of the place in which
they live. While Mr. Gross’s committee must
limit the points visited on the excursions of the
convention delegates, his committee is at the same
time making arrangements so that delegates, as
they find opportunity, may be piloted to other in-
stitutions which for personal reasons, or because
of some special plan which they have in mind for
their own cities, they desire to see.

The local information booth, under Mr. Burch-
ard, will hold itself ready to make arrangements
for such individual and additional explorations,
because all of Chicago is constituting itself a host
to the convention, and in its welcoming hospi—
tality wants its guests to have the freedom of the
city, and to make themselves perfectly at home
throughout their stay here.

One of the features of the Recreation Congress
will be the commercial exhibits which will be
shown. Among the exhibitors of recreation
equipment and supplies who have thus far pur-
chased space are the following:

The Everwear Manufacturing Co . . . . ..Springfield, Ohio
Clayton F. Summy Co . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Chicago, Illinois
The American Crayon Co . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Sandusky, Ohio

Benjamin Electric Manufacturing Co.
Des Plaines, Illinois

The Manual Arts Press . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Peoria, Illinois

A. G. Spalding & Bros . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York City

J. E. Porter Corp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Ottawa, Illinois

The P. Goldsmith Sons Co . . . . .._ . . . . . ..Cincinnati, Ohio

Binney 8: Smith Co . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York City

Wilson—Western Sporting Goods C0....Chicago, Illinois

Publishers who will display books include:

Harper & Bros . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York City

A. S. Barnes & Co . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York City

Little, Brown & Co . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Boston, Mass.

W. W. Norton & Co . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York City

Frederick A. Stokes Co . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York City

The Viking Press Inc . . . . . . . . . .I . . . . . . . .New York City

The Womans Press . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York City

E. P. Dutton & Co . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . ..New York City

J. P. Lippincott C0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Philadelphia, Pa.

National Council of the Y.M.C.A.’s. . . . .New York City

3

A l-lusking Bee for That Autumn Party ,

Suggestions for a iolly party which may be
held in a basement, attic, garage or barn '

should be scribbled in brown

crayon on yellow paper cut
in the shape of ears of corn. Guests must come in
aprons or overalls, sunbonnets or big straw hats,
or other similar country garb.

INVITATIONS. In vitation s -

Decorations. Decorate the room with corn
stalks, pumpkins, real ears of corn, a scarecrow or
two, lanterns, hay and straw. In one corner,
among stalks, have a bushel basket of ears of
corn made of twisted paper base covered with

yellow and green crepe paper to resemble real!

corn. Inside each, under its “husks,” is a slip of
paper which contains the directions for a game or
the announcement of some number on the even-
ing’s program.

The Preliminaries. Guests crowd around on the
floor while an orchestra of flddlers, mouth-harp-
ists, and similar instruments, all properly garbed
in farm clothes, play old-time tunes. Each guest
is given a number, or if there are very many
players, only the boys are given them. In turn,
they draw ears of corn from the basket, husk
them, and read the directions on the slip of paper
inside. If a game is given, the group plays it ac—
cording to these directions, the person who drew
the ear leading the game. If a program number is
given, the performer the slip mentions does his
act. When a game or number is finished the next
ear is drawn, the guests seating themselves on the
floor again. Each guest may draw any ear he
wishes, but must wait his turn to do so.

“I a husker gets a red ear, he may kiss any girl
he chooses.” (Tradition) Write several slips in
red. Those drawing the ears containing these
slips may choose their own partners for the rest
of the evening. Others will draw or match for
theirs at refreshment time.

Matching Partners. For matching partners, any

of the following methods may be used:
Small paper ears of corn are cut into two odd
shapes each. Boys and girls match halves. Pieces

302

By MABELLE WILLIAMS
Greeley. Colorado

of corn candy are tied on to
ends of pieces of string which
are woven about posts, furni-
ture, etc. One end of the string is colored red.
Each girl takes one of these ends. The boys take
the plain ends. They eat their candy, roll up the
string carefully as they untangle it, and finally
meet their partners.

Paper ears of corn, half made of brown paper,
half of yellow, are numbered two of each num-
ber. These are hidden. The players hunt for
them, each girl seeking a brown one, each boy a
yellow. Those having the same numbers are
partners.

To a gay old-time tune players skip around in
two circles, one inside the other. When the music
stops suddenly those opposite each other are de—
clared partners.

Games

Cat and mouse

VVord-forming ‘from
Hide and go seek

com husking bee
Corn candy hunt Red light,
Old-fashioned dances Telephone
(Square, Circle, Vir- Charades
ginia Reel) Forfeits
Farmer in the dell '

Program Numbers

Individual stunts
Mouth harp solos Accordion numbers
Vocal numbers Banjo solos

Old-time solo dances ‘ Group singing (to fol—
low refreshments

Fiddle solos

Old-time Songs

Turkey in the Straw Old Folks At Home

Old Zip Coon Carry Me Back to
Shine On, Harvest Old Virgnia

Moon Dixie
Seeing Nellie Home Mocking Bird
Jingle Bells Bicycle Built for Two
Old Oaken Bucket Juanita
Old Kentucky Home Dem Golden Slippers

(Continued on page 325)

Community Dances in Lancaster

By
RICHARD D. ALTICK

Lancaster, Pa.

HE COMMUNITY DANCES which for fifteen
T years have proved such an outstanding suc-

cess as part of the winter program of the
Recreation and Playground Association of Lan-
caster, Pennsylvania, are the result of two press—
ing needs in the community.

The first need is a social one. In a community
of about 60,000 population the opportunities the
adolescent boy and girl have for wholesome recre-
ation are definitely limited. Their fancies are turn—
ing toward the opposite sex; they are reaching the
“party age.” Too mature to stay at home, too young
to share the diversions of young men and women
a few years older than themselves, they are faced
with a serious problem when they seek means of
diversion fitted to their new interests in life.
Movies have a‘ certain appeal to boys and girls of
that age, but the welling animal spirits of youth
demand an outlet such as dancing provides. School
dances or private parties are not held often enough
to satisfy their need for social recreation. In the
average community there remain only public
dance halls and roadhouses.

It was to this latter type of recreational facili—
ties that a parent in Lancaster referred when he
remarked, “When I look on the amusement page
of the newspaper on Saturday night and see the
ads of all the terrible places where the boys and
girls might go, I become more and more grateful
for the community dances that give my son and
daughter a chance to do their
dancing in the right sort of at—
mosphere.”

Mr. Alticlt, who has sent us this

"There is no art that is more pop-
ular with youth than dancing' and
there is no art that has more to

teach youth of health, strengthl
beauty and wholesome ioy. It is up

to the parents, teachers' ministers
and civic leaders to see that this
great art is maintained in their
community on the high level that
is its ancient heritage."—From a
statement by Lucile M arsb.

 

dance is unquestionably the most popular form of
entertainment for groups of young men and
women, and deservedly so, since in addition to
being splendid exercise, it has a distinct social
value, and affords, as does perhaps no other ac—
tivity, an easy and pleasant means of promoting
sociability and acquaintance.”

The community dances seem to provide an ex-
cellent solution of both these problems. They give
parents peace of mind; they give the boys and
girls what they desire, a rendezvous where they
can spend their Saturday evenings in the manner
most agreeable to them, and they encourage social
dancing as a highly desirable recreation. Begin-
ning in 1920 as a mere experiment, they have be-
come a veritable institution in Lancaster, affec—
tionately remembered by the men and women who
attended them in their own high school days,” and
extremely popular with the present sixteen—to—
twenty set.

How the Plan Operates and Why

The most striking feature about the community
dances is the fact that they are
conducted almost wholly by vol—
unteers. The Recreation and

Again, organizers have long
recognized the importance of
provision for social dancing in
any recreation program. Back
in 1921, when the community
dances had barely started, Miss
Mildred E. Wiley, then the su—
perintendent of the Lancaster
recreation program, wrote, “The

account of the community dances
“in LancasterI is a student at the
local college and for a number of
seasons has been a member of the
Saturday evening dance commit-
tee. He is therefore thoroughly
familiar not only with the details
involved in the conducting of the
dances. but. as a participant him-
self. with the feeling of the young
people toward the program.

Playground Association, the
nominal sponsor, handles the
administrative details, acts as
treasurer and publicity agent,
and provides a responsible back-
ing. Its present superintendent,
Grant D. Brandon, acts as the
advisor of the volunteer group
in charge of the parties. But

303

304 COMMUNITY DANCES IN LANCASTER

the actual running of the weekly affairs rests en-
tirely in the hands of the capable young men and
women ranging in age from sixteen to twenty—
five who represent the various youths’ organiza-
tions of the community and who serve voluntarily
and without compensation.

At the beginning of each season every school,
club, or other group cooperating in the dances
nominates two or more of the boys and girls con-
nected with it to represent it on the body whose
official title is “The Community Dance Board of
Governors.” Thus, last season, there were several
representatives each from the Y.W.C.A., two col-
leges located near the city, several industrial
plants, a theological seminary, the local Boy
Scout Council, a boys’ and a girls’ preparatory
school, the DeMolay Chapter, Catholic clubs and
other similar organizations.

There exists in the board of
governors a strong esprit de
corps which makes it as effici-
ent a volunteer group as can be
found anywhere. The unfiag-
ging enthusiasm with which its
members work to make the
dances a continued success is
due partly to their realization,
as members of the very group
the dances are designed to serve,
(5f the great desirability of the
institution of the community
dances, and partly to the absolute lack of compul—
sion or excessive formality which attends their
position. Every member of the board may do as
much or as little as he pleases, and he may select
the type of work connected with the dances that
he likes best to perform. It is such pleasant work,
and the members of the board are so uniformly
congenial and interested in what they are doing,
that, as one 'of them has said, the “management”
derives more fun from the dances than do the

“customers” themselves.

One of the most successful features of the
community dances is the “groiip-in-charge” idea.
Each ‘week’s dance is announced as being spon-
sored by the representatives of a different co—
operating organization, such as DeMolay, Teach-
ers’ College, Y.W.C.A., etc. The decorations are
carried out in the colors of that organization, and
the feature dances are designed with especial ref-
erence to it. Its representatives on the board be-

come the hosts and hostesses of the evening, al-
though, of course, their fellow board members

A discussion of social dancing will
be found in ''Partners in Play." a
booklet outlining some of the ac-
tivities of various types which older '
boys and girlsI young men and
young women ma
The publication a
entitled Dance Games and Stunts
describing ways of adding social
features and devices to the modern
social dance. I'Partners in Play"
may be secured from the National
Recreation Association. Price. $.75.

enioy together.
so has a chapter

are in active attendance. It has been found that
this plan adds an important touch of distinction
to each party, constantly reminding the dancers
that these parties are their very own.

The personnel_of the community dances is par-
ticularly proud of the fact that they are entirely
self-supporting. Although the Recreation and
Playground Association, as the backer, stands
ready to make up any deficit incurred, only once
in the history of the dances has it been called
upon to do so, and then only in the worst year of
the depression. The admission charge of twenty-
five cents per person, when received from an
average crowd of 275 dancers every Saturday
evening, has proved sufficient to rent the hall,
engage a good orchestra, buy decorations and other
supplies, provide a fund for emergencies, and
even, as has been the case the
last few years, to make possible
an end-of—the-season compli-
mentary dinner and theater
party for the board members as
a recognition of their services.

Naturally, in fifteen years the
board of governors, many of
whose members have served for
several consecutive seasons, has
become quite eXpert in running
these weekly Saturday night
dances. The fruit of their long
experience in the practical as-
pects of conducting community dances is sum-
marized for the benefit of other groups who may
be planning similar programs.

Some Practical Details

Time: Every Saturday evening from October
to May, 8 to II :30.

Place: The gymnasium of the Lancaster
Y.W.C.A.

Planning: Each week"s dance is planned in ad-
vance during an informal round-table conference
of the board held every Thursday evening. In
order that attendance at the meeting will not in-
terfere with other activities of the members, many
of whom are_ going to school or college, its dura-
tion is strictly limited to half an hour.

Organization: The board has the usual officers,

who serve for one year.

Decorations: To transform the somewhat dingy
gymnasium every Saturday night into something
approximating a small ballroom is an exciting

COMMUNITY DANCES IN LANCASTER ‘ 305

challenge to the ingenuity and artistry of the
board members. Every Saturday afternoon as
many of them as are _free invade the gym and,
armed with plenty of crepe paper streamers and
other materials, achieve quite attractive decora-
tive effects. Several of the young men are good
amateur electricians, and with the colored spot-
lights and mechanical devices the board has pur-
chased from its profits they create new effects
from week to week. In two hours the gym is
transformed into a softly lighted little ballroom
with a gay party atmosphere.

Chaperonage: Although as a rule-‘ nowadays
adult chaperons are regarded as being as superflu-
ous as the proverbial fifth wheel, it has been
found that their presence adds greatly to the pres-
tige of the dances and increases parental reliance
in them. Two or three couples are invited each week
by the representatives in charge that particular
week. Usually they are connected with the spon-
soring organization in some way, as teachers, ad-
visers or patrons. On evenings when there is no
special “group-in-charge,” civic leaders, the par-
ents of some of the dances’ most regular attend-
ants, or other interested persons are asked to be
guests.

Music: The dance tunes are supplied by the
local orchestras whose performance is the most
pOpular at the moment with the dancers.

"Feature" Dances: There are at least two of
these during the evening; and, thanks again to
the ingenuity of the board members, they are of
almost infinite variety. There are elimination
dances, spot dances, dances devised in honor of
some holiday, prize waltzes and fox-trots. The
last mentioned are especially popular because they
encourage good dancing and give the chaperons
who act as judges an active part in the proceed-
ings which they enjoy. Prizes are awarded the
winners of each event.

Concessions: During intermission members of
one of the Y.VV.C.A. girls’ clubs serve refresh-
ments for a small charge in the adjoining cafe-
teria. The board likewise awards checking privi-
leges to responsible persons, who check patrons’
coats for five cents each.

Duties of the Board Members: As has been men-
tioned, there are few specific duties assigned to
specific individuals. But in practice each member
of the board finds something he likes particularly
to do, and he does it every Saturday evening.
Four or five, who do not care to dance, remain

a

at the impromptu box off-ice to receive the money,
keep a record of the number of patrons coming
from each of the cooperating organizations, and
issue the dance programs that serve the purpose
of ticket stubs. The rest drift onto the floor,
where they mingle with the crowd, dancing with
those who show a tendency to remain along the
walls, conducting the prize events, and keeping
things in general running smoothly. Since the
board members are widely acquainted among the
boys and girls who come to the dances, they are
well equipped to make introductions and to en-
courage mixing.

Behavior: There are few problems of be-
havior, largely because the spirit of the com-
munity dances has been traditionalized by their
fifteen years of operation. The purposes of the
dances are so well known that an automatic pro-
cess of selection seems continually at work, at-
tracting the better classes and excluding the un-
desirables. During the past two seasons the system
which limited admission to those holding identi-
fication cards given them, free upon request, by
board members, has been suspended, with no notice:-
able decline in the quality of the crowd attending.

Supervision is about as unobtrusive as it is
possible to make it. Although in reality the board
members are engaged in active chaperonage every
moment they are on the floor, the dancers think
of them simply as their everyday friends and as-
sociates, and not as meddling “snoopers.” Yet the
board members, fully realizing their responsibility
for the success or failure of the community
dances, even while they are mingling with their
acquaintances, never forget their obligation to be
alert for instances of flagrant misconduct which
may spoil the fun of the majority. Their tactful
words of caution are usually sufficient to silence
a too boisterous youth. Ejection is rarely
necessary.

The policy of the community dances has always
been one of great toleration. The blue badges of
the board members are used as means of identi-
iication, rarely as symbols of authority. The vol-
unteers, coming as they do from the ranks of the
dancers themselves, know better than anyone else
possibly could what a great degree of freedom is
desirable in such affairs, and they strive to main-
tain it, intervening only in the case of downright
nuisances.

It is this atmosphere of freedom, of informality,
of friendly toleration which, in the last analysis,

(Continued on page 325)

T - w _ -———

Rochester’s New Swimming Pools

THE SITES for the new

swimming pools in
Rochester, New York,
were carefully chosen with
their accessibility in mind.
Both can be reached by car
lines, busses or automobiles,
and parking areas are avail-
able.
The pools are 45 feet wide

and 105 feet long, with a
capacity of 185,000 gallons of filtered water, the

depth ranging from 3 feet 6 inches at the shal-
low end to 9 feet 6 inches at the diving end. Each
pool is designed for a maximum bathing load of
385 persons. They are divided into three zones.
The deep end is reserved for divers; the second
for swimmers, and the third zone, or shallow end,
for beginners or persons who do not swim. This
zone is protected with a floating life line.

The tanks are constructed of reinforced con-
crete, super-cement being used throughout. All
necessary precautions were taken to prevent
cracks forming as a result of temperature changes
and shrinkage by providing expansion joints in
walls and floor. Scum gutters of terra cotta, to-
gether with a coping of the same material, with an
unglazed non-slip surface were provided, the edge
of gutters serving as a handhold for bathers.
Sufficient opening was provided in this concealed
scum gutter so as to permit easy cleaning of gut-
ters and drains. Concrete runways, 14 feet wide,
extend entirely around the pool with a slight slope
from pool to gutters and with drainage vents to
prevent surface water gaining access to pools.

Swimming lanes, as well as distance and depth
markings, are conspicuously marked in black. Re-
cessed Aqualux fiodo lights have been installed
below the water line to illuminate the bottom of
the pool and add to the safety of night bathing.
Overhead fiood lights were erected on high stand-
ards to illuminate runways, springboards, etc., for
night bathing. Modern springboards, life guard
standards, ladders and all necessary modern equip-

ment are provided.

bathing.

Pool Sanitation
To insure germ free, clear and pure water in

306

 

One of the outstanding ERA pro-
iects in- Rochester was the con-
struction of two swimming pools,
one at Genes'ee Valley Park con-
sisting ot- a separate pool for
boys and girls; and the second at
Seneca Park designed for mixed

Both were completed
in time for the

 

the pools at all times, a recir-
culation and chlorination
method of swimming pool
operation was adopted. A
double suction centrifugal
pump continually draws wa-
ter from the pool through
two outlet drains, while a
hair-catcher protects the cir-
culating pumps and keeps out
of the filter hair and lint
from bathing suits and other foreign matter that
may enter the pool.

On the suction side of this pump the sterilizing
solution is fed into the line by chlorine and am-
monia control apparatus. The sterile water pass-
ing through the pump is treated with a small
amount of coagulating slum and forced through a
strainerless pressure type filter and back into the
pool through ten inlet fittings, equally spaced on
three sides of the pool. Fresh water is added only
to replace the losses from splashing into the scum
gutters. This method not only permits a large
saving in water but keeps the water in the pool
fresh for indefinite periods and free from injur-
ious bacteria, and also permits the pool to be kept
in service continuously.

This apparatus completely filters the entire con-
tents of each pool daily through pressure type
sand filters. Equipment is provided for testing
the chlorine contents of the water, and checks will
be made several times daily on samples taken
from various parts of the pool. Dust, hair and
lint too heavy to remain suspended in the water,
which are not conducted to the hair-catcher and
filter for removal, settle to the bottom of the pool.
This debris can be removed without draining the
pool by the use of a cleaning tool consisting of a
brush with a nozzle similar to that used on a
vacuum cleaner. The nozzle is fitted to a hollow
handle to which is attached a hose connection and
can be connected to any one of four special under-
water fittings. These fittings are connected to the
suction inlet of the circulating pump. The dis-
charge from the pump is passed directly to the
sewer. The sides as well as the bottom of the pool
are cleaned in this manner.

( Continued on rage 325)

I935 season.

The Club—on Effective Medium

 

Courtesy Extension Department, Milwaukee Public Schools

LUB ACTIVITIES of both youth and adults are
becoming increasingly important as their
functions are more fully understood, and

leaders have come to feel club work is vitally im-
portant in a community center program. The club,
.as a means of c00peration and understanding, has
a very real value in the life of today among per-
sons of like interests.

Man is instinctively gregarious. Thus people
live in groups in which the individual must sub-
ordinate his personal desire to those of the group.
Children are individualists, but as they become
older they tend toward group and team play which
gradually develops into some form of organiza-
tion for the carrying out of their ideas on more
serious matters. The club becomes an attractive
and logical method of training in community co-
operation. In the classroom young people work
together under teacher guidance but in the club
they have their own rules and regulations and, for
the most part, the administering of their own dis-
cipline. The school, church, settlement, com-
munity center and other organi-
zations have realized the value r

of this training, and they are all Mr. Christiansen. at the present

in the

Community Center

By
MILO F. CHRISTIANSEN

community center program is constructive and
worthwhile club work. At the same time it is
usually one of the most difficult tasks in our pro-
gram because of the lack of good leadership and
facilities.

Too many times have we looked for the results
of our work in records of participation, in the
number of activities and of contests. What tan-
gible and carry-over results have we effected?
True it is that there has been a tendency to de-
crease juvenile delinquency and fatality tables
through recreation, but it is just one of many fac-
tors. There is also a tendency to raise moral and
social standards, but it is difficult to be specific
about these results although comparisons are gen-
erally obtainable. In club work, however, it is
usually possible to point to a particular unit over
a certain period of time and show tangible results
in c00peration, discipline, self-expression, and
organization.

It would be interesting to know the number of
youth and adult clubs organized every year that
die a natural death because of the lack of leader-
ship, of purpose, aims and understanding. I can
look back on my own experience in settlements,
boys’ clubs and community centers, and see why
so many of them petered out.
The youth group that organizes
spontaneously is most frequent-

actively engaged in fostering “me emF’lWed as ‘3 regim'al “3" ly the club that disintegrates

youth and adult clubs.
One of the best barometers

reation director with the Kansas
State FERA. was formerly director

_ of one of the community centers
01' measurmg l'OdS that W3 35 maintained by the Board of Edu-

recreation workers have in the cation of Newark. New Jersey.

chiefly because of the lack of a
good leader.“ The older groups
as well need leadership and su-
pervision, particularly through

307

308 THE CLUB—ANEFFECTIVE MEDIUMIN THE COMMUNITY CENTER

the early periods of organization. A definite un-
derstanding of purpose and aims, membership and
program is entirely essential, because the older
groups usually like to carry on independently, for
the most part, of a leader.

Values in Club Organization

In speaking of clubs I am thinking mainly of
two different groups. First, there is the activity
club, such as dramatic or handicraft club, that is
organized on a club basis with an open member-
ship; and secondly, there is the club that is strictly
a unit unto itself, such as the athletic or social
club in which membership is closed to those who
are not of the same neighborhood, same interests
or same purposes. There are other types or com-
binations for club organization, but these two are
the most prevalent. “It is in these clubs that the
individuals are practicing, so to speak, the quali-
ties of a good citizen with results satisfying to
themselves,” to quote Elbert K.
Fretwell of Columbia University.
It is practice with satisfying re-
sults that makes for perfection.
These boys and girls, young men
and women, are citizens here in
their own clubs with rights,
duties, privileges and obligations.
The best proof that they will be
good citizens tomorrow is that they are good citi-
zens today. We must begin where they are.

What are the qualities of a good citizen? In
simple words they are initiative and desire to act
for the good of the group, ability to cooperate and
desire to do it, the ability to lead or follow a leader
of the group’s own choice, and intelligent obedi—
ence to authority. Knowledge about such quali-
ties is important, but the fundamental thing is
that in the club individuals practice these quali—
ties here and now with results satisfying to them:
selves. “It is one of the mediums through which
the community center, church, school, and other
organizations may increase their effectiveness as
integral parts of society.”

Creativeness and self-expression may be ex-
perienced in all types of work and should be
stimulated in every activity. Through club par—
ticipation this is made possible. The plan for self-
activity worked out by a number of youth organi-
zations has resulted in very constructive work in
actual self-expressive type of program.

Activities.

Another important factor is the continuity or
carry—over value that characterizes a club from

"Clubs and club activity come

closer to representing spontan-
eous and deep-seated child in-
terests than
aspects of school Iite."—F. C.
Bergesen in Group Interest

do

one year to another. Many clubs disband or dis—
organize at different seasons of the year. Yet
when a period of time has elapsed the members
are back again to carry on from where they left
off. This carry—over value is of utmost import-
ance to the community center. It means there is
a tendency to complete certain aims and purposes
that were started the season before, or the year
before that.

Clubs provide an excellent means for maintain—
ing a community center program. They are the
mediums through which program and activity,
philosophy and purpose are transmitted to your
neighborhood, to your district, to your ward, to
your community and to your entire city. It is in-
teresting to note that many of the clubs in our
community centers took an active part in main-
taining the Recreation Department last fall when
the rumor was heard that they might be deprived
of their Community Center.

The community center coun—
cils, inter-club councils, advisory
councils, whatever the names by
which they are called, are effec-
tive bodies in maintaining and
promoting the community center
program. They, too, are trans-
mitters of the program and spirit
to the community.

In many of the clubs the activities are more
nearly child-directed and controlled than any of
their experiences in the day school. Clubs will
make your community center life more real and
lifelike. Today as never before we find groups of
people of some particular interest banding them—
selves into clubs to further common ends. We
hear educators say that education is life; if so,
then clubs become a major factor in its develop-
ment. Abilities and special interests of individuals
are taken care of, and clubs provide a variety of
the experiences which are so essential in our dy-
namic society.

Some of the objectives that are set up for the
clubs through the community center are the dis-
covery of a worthy use of leisure, the satisfying
of spontaneous interests, the improvement of dis-
cipline and morale, and the development of citi-
zenship qualities enriching the individual’s inter-
ests, of permanent life interests and of a spirit of
loyalty and of belonging to the community center.

any other

Important Principles
There 'are certain principles which we can not

 

THE CLUB—AX EFFECTIVE JIEDIUJI IN THE COMMUNITY CENTER 309

overlwk in the success of a club program. It is of
the utmost importance that each club have a leader
or sponsor who will allow the  of the
club members to function as well as his own. The
leader must not dominate the club but should act
asacou-nselororsu-ggestortoaidtheclubalmg
thepathsetoutupon. Theremustbeadehnite
programsetupanditnmstbecarriedout. Ithas
been atggested that youth group clubs be allowed
to change their omcers often because of the short
and indefinite interest period. The leader rmrst at
all times “be on his toes” for new ideas and sug-
gestions, to see that the re] interesr is there and
that it shall not be terminated. It is far better to
disband a club when the interest terminates than
to allow it to go on and die slowly as the club
members get the wrong impress-ion of club
organizatich

All clubs, I believe, Mid be r tired to apply
for membership in the community ter. In
Kewari: a-pplrimtion form is filed with the inter-
dubcounciloradvisorycouncilandthenbythe
 on clubs. If the canmittee on clubs
and the cmmnunity center director amid-er the
club a worthy project, they recommend to the in-
ter-dtmamncil thatadiarterbegrantedtothe
club. This procedure has a tendency to increase
the feeling of ftS-pORS—ibiliQ' to the connnunity cen-
ter and the Other clubs in it, and promotes a de-
sire to compare favorably in organizatich and
program with the rest of the dubs. The charter
is good as long as the objectives of the club as
set forth in the applicatim for clnrter are being
fiEJled.

\Hmtheduhceamto function,iteitherdis-
halls voluntarily and returns its charter to the
ia-ter—clubcouncilorthedtthmaybeaskedtodis
land. A few dead or dying dubs are very detri-
meeru'rl to the program

Ithmbeassumedthtwenm-ntakein
every club and group wishing to join the am-
nrun-iry oemer. Parting—lady is this so where our
facilities am leadership are indequcne. It is far
tenettoaimitasmalierm-m‘beroi club-s anddoa
con-struive piece of 1mm aim them tlnn it is to
takeinailmxithengive them atlyamllpartoi
you-rtiroemthatymthey,trn,willmmetnyier
themsegoryoi adeadordyiagduh. (This state-
mem refers to clubs of the mnhership type.)

Ithsaltayslreenintereaingtouztchtitin-
terest of clubs grow in other activities in the (Tm-
meetity center- I am thinking of dais. that origi-
nally were organized an athletic or social d%- In

the course of time, through exposure to other
parts of the community center program, many of
the club members become interested in dramatics,
tap and social dancing instruction, fencing, art
and music. Our activities of this type are open
and amber:- of other clubs may belong. These
open activities and clubs are invaluable in bring-
ing together many of the members of the other
clubs. Thus there is a socializing value to be de-
rived irom the community center- It is desirable
for club members to become acquainted with other
members of the center, m that they will feel they
are all part of the same unit.

Affairs pertaining to the community center at
large such as parties, dances and rallies, are plan-
ned, organized and conducted  the inter-club
council which consists of representatives from
every club in the community center. The council
affords the clubs an opportunity to offer sugges
tions and criticisms regarding the program and
management. In this way they feel tint they have
a voice in the center’s goverrmient and program.

“The many varyirg approaches to program
building used by the group work organizations in
America today fall under two general and funda-
mental types : ( I) the prearranged program
formulated by a national headquarters, and to a
lesser degree by loczl city headquarters, with some
provision for adaptation to the local groups; (2)
the program which i: an oatgrmcth of the interest
of the local group- There are two apprmdies to
the latter type of programming: (a) the program
evolved jointly  the leader and the group; (b)
theapproachin whichtheleaderbegins withthe
 interest of the group and guides the
group on to wider channels of 

“An We program presents an endless chain
of fascinating and compelling writies which are
not mly interesting in the doing but challenging
to the  and which are varied ernrgh
to saris-i y erery individttal in the grotzr , whatever
his likes and interests may be. To be worthy from
the angle of imaginatim, the program mun am-
tai-n large elements of color. picturéqueness and
romance- Further, the adequate program must be
of such a We as to safeguard the laws of the
 process. Modern clttb work is drought of
as a rareativa—educatimnl institution: it aims
beyond mere  and recreation, and
seeks grmh and educazim for its members.”—
From The Theory of Play by Bowenand Mitchell.

Buffalo Multiplies Her Play Areas

EN YEARS AGO Buffalo
T owned just 20.87 acres

devoted to playgrounds
of which there were seven-
teen. At the present time—June, 1935—there are
twenty—three playgrounds under leadership, repre-
senting 69.46 acres, an increase of more than 230
per cent in acreage. The city still owns 77.61 acres
which have not been developed into use as play-
grounds, scattered in twenty-four different proper-
ties. It is to the task of developing and complet-
ing these areas that the City Planning Association
is now devoting its efforts.

On June 30th Buffalo dedicated with an elabor-
ate program of swimming and diving three new
swimming, wading and diving pools built by
Emergency Relief Bureau labor. The total ex—
penditure for all three pools and the locker house,
which was remodeled out of an old casino, was
$75,000. The net cost to the city was approxi-
mately $18,750. These pools represent one of the
most extensive and most enduring public improve-
ments made possible under the work relief
program.

By MARION A. PORTER

Secretary
Buffalo Ciiy Planning Associaiion. Inc.

The main pool is 227’ by
77’ and ranges from 3% feet
at the shallow end to 5% feet
at the deeper end. This pool
has a lighting system which will make it usable
both by day and night, and every corner of the
pool will be visible through the use of powerful
fiood lights. The diving pool measures 78’ by 76’
and ranges in depth from 5 to 12 feet. It is
equipped with springboards approved for A.A.U.
competition. The wading pool for little tots at
the end of the layout is 76 feet square and ranges
in depth from I inch at the edge to 2%, feet at
the center. At one end of the pool is a very de—
lightful arrangement of sand boxes covered with
a rose pergola where seats have been placed for
mothers so that they may watch their children
play.

Powerful pumps have been installed in the base-
ment of the locker building to provide for con—
stant circulation of water and a chlorination sys—
tem of a most modern type has been installed.
These will insure the purity of the water for any

(Continued on page 326)

 

310

The Pennsylvania Folk- Festival

HE FOLK festival

movement is grow-

ing fast in this coun-
try. A comparative new
development in the field
of public recreation, it is
an effective agency for the per—
petuation of the traditions of our
country and for providing, at the
same time, a type of entertain—
ment that is inexpensive, refresh-
ing and of universal appeal. The
college professor and the man on the street can
enjoy this program equally well even if their ap—
proaches are different. The charm of the folk
festival lies in its simplicity, in the naturalness of
those taking part and in the absence of anything
smacking of the theatrical. Held up to these
standards, it is irresistible to young and old and
to people of all classes as Allentown’s experience
proved when the Recreation Commission spon-
sored the first state folk festival ever held in
Pennsylvania on Friday and Saturday, May 3rd
and 4th.

When George G. Korson, author and folklorist,
first broached the subject of a folk festival to us
we were, frankly, skeptical. It was something
vague and intangible and untried. However, the
members of the Commission, being men of vision
and broad sympathies, saw its possibilities and
voted a modest appropriation for Mr. Korson.
Wisely we gave him a free hand to develop the
festival in accordance with his own ideas as a
folklorist.

In a surprisingly short time the idea of a folk
festival somehow caught on. The local neWSpa-
pers became interested almost from the outset and
clamored for more and more material about this
colorful event. The interest spread to the news-
papers of the rest of the state. Then the Asso-
ciated Press and the United Press sent out several
releases from Harrisburg. The

An unusual festival in which citi-
zens of today reviewed some of
the recreations of their forefathers

By IRENE D. WELTY

Executive Director

Re creation Commission
Allentown. Pa.

began writing in for de-
tails. Columbia Uni-
versity inquired whether
we would object if they
took phonographic rec-
ords of the festival. One
of the railroads leading into Al-
lentown wanted to run an excur-
sion from New York but was
discouraged because we could_ not
possibly accommodate the crowds.

The two—day festival was ar-
ranged for flower—laden \Vest Park and we Were
prepared to accommodate 20,000 persons. The
rain and cold, however, drove us indoors and we
were able to take care of only 5,000 persons,
many of them coming from New York, Phila-
delphia, and other cities. A dozen colleges and
universities were represented in the audience by
members of their faculties who made notes of the
programs. On the opening night at the Lyric
Theatre, the largest in the city, we opened our
doors at 7 o’clock and in a half hour had to close
them again, turning away hundreds because we
had no room for them. On the second day we
used the high school auditorium for morning,
afternbon and evening performances.

One of the most interesting revelations was the
marvelous response from the audiences, which
apparently had no feeling they were at a perform-
ance. Some intangible, spiritual thread bound
them to the things portrayed on the stage and
they felt as if they were part of it all, as guests
at a party. This feeling of intimacy between
audience and performers was effected by the
naturalness with which the performers carried
themselves. There was no conscious striving for
effect. People in the audience hummed as the
singers sang the precious old folk songs; they
tapped their feet as the dance tunes floated out
of the fiddles, bringing back memories of boy-

hood and girlhood; they laugh-

N ew Y ark Times featured our
festival in an article published
April 21. College professors
and students of folklore from
Pennsylvania and other states

"The Allentown Recreation Com-
mission." announces the program
of the festival, "believes that
not money but the life a com-
munity provides is its wealth."

ed uproariously at the broad,
peasant humor. And all the time
they wanted more and more.
The naturalness of the per-
formers was due not a little to

311

312 THE PENNSYLVANIA FOLK FESTIVAL

the advance order issued by Mr. Korson to par-
ticipants that there were to be no rehearsals. He
did not care for a finished performance, he said.
He wanted them as they really were. If he had
wanted a beautifully formed rose, he said, he
would go to the florist. But what he sought was
the natural rose that blooms in the bush, un-
touched by the hand of man, which had a wild
beauty of its own. The participants caught the
picture and Mr. Korson got the kind of perform-
ance he had visioned. There were no profession-
als in the festival as a result. Those taking part
in the Pennsylvania-German program were for
the most part farmers who had barely had time
to wash up after a hard day’s work in the fields;
and their womenfolk came from the farm kitch-
ens. Most of the old anthracite coal miners who
took part on Saturday night had worked in the
mines that very morning because they could not
afford to miss even a half day’s pay in these hard
. times!

Folklorists making notes on the festival found
a harvest of new material. \Vhen Prof. George
NV. Hibbett of Columbia University and \Nalter
C. Garwick his associate, came with their elabo-
rate recording machinery they intended to make
only a few records. But they were amazed at the
amount of new traditional matter that we pre—
sented and before they had left they had recorded
virtually the entire festival—a tribute to Mr. Kor-
son in assembling such interesting and significant

material.

Potentially Penn-
sylvania is one of the
richest sources of folk-
lore in the United
States. Most of the
veins foUnd elsewhere
in the country might
be duplicated here—
sea chanteys, river
roustabout ballads,
lumberjack songs,

A group of Pennsylvania
Germans rehearsing the
folk dances they are to
present at the Festival.
A spirt of informality
and fun pervaded all of
the rehearsals as well as
the final performance.

Negro ~spirituals, mountaineer folk music and
English survivals. But there are two veins of
folklore here that are to be found nowhere else.
Those are of the Pennsylvania Germans and the
anthracite coal miners. Bearing this thought in
mind, Mr. Korson featured these types of folk-
lore, giving over the entire opening night to the
Pennsylvania Germans and devoting much of the
second night to the miners. '

The Pennsylvania Germans vividly unfolded
for us a picture of their social life of fifty years
ago and beyond. Everything was in the Pennsyl-
vania German dialect, the program having been
assembled by William S. Troxell who, as “Pum-
pernickle Bill,” conducts a column in the dialect
for a local newspaper. The setting was that of a
rural kitchen furnished by those quaint Pennsyl-
vania German antiques that have become so com-
mercially valuable of recent years. The partici-
pants wore the costumes of yesteryear.

It was old Squire Pumpernickle Bill’s birthday
and at seven o’clock -——his regular bedtime—his
neighbors drop in on him from surrounding farms
to help him celebrate. In the course of the
evening, they sing the old Pennsylvania German
folk songs; they play the traditional party games;
they dance the reel and the quadrille as it is
danced nowhere else in the country, and portray
superstitions. The ousider seeing this perform-
ance perceives that the Pennsylvania Germans
went in for a healthy, wholesome and robust kind
of fun in the days when there were no automo-

 

l
l

 

THE PENNSYLVANIA FOLK FESTIVAL 313

biles, radios, phonographs and recreation direct-
ors to help plan their leisure time.

The anthracite coal miners appeared in their
. mining clothes wearing their head lamps and car-
" rying their tools. They had just come up from the
mine shaft, had had their supper and were ready
for their shindig, such as was common in the old
days in the anthracite coal region of eastern
Pennsylvania. An interesting thing about the an—
thracite miners is that they are the only modern
industrial workers to have developed a folklore.
.This folklore which grew during the last cen-
tury, was on the brink of oblivion .when rescued
by Mr. Korson about ten years ago. Much of the
material presented by them came from his book,
“Songs and Ballads of the Anthracite Miner.”
The anthracite coal miners’ ballads have a kin—
ship to the cowboys’ and lumberjacks’ ballads, all
being native to American soil.

In keeping with their calling the anthracite
miners went in for robust entertainment. They
danced the jig, the clog and the reel to the ac-
companiment of a home—made fiddle and a banjo
and bones. Their ballads sang of the dangers and
hardships of a miner’s life and of the good times
that might be expected in the coal patch when the
coal breaker has started up again after a long
idleness. The high light of their program was a
jig—dancing contest between George “Corks”
Cramer, 61, of Ashland and Patrick J. “Giant”
O’Neill, 74, of St. Clair, to settle a dispute that
dated back to 1896. In that year these miners
danced against each other in a mining patch for
the championship of the anthracite coal region.
But the judges’ decision was disputed and efforts
were made to bring them together but these
failed, and the years slipped by and they never
again appeared together on a platform until our
festival. The judges decided that their contest was
a “draw.” Despite their years they were remark-
ably agile.

The Moravian Church of Emaus brought us
ancient Moravian chorales some dating back to
the 15th and 16th centuries. The trombone choir
combined with the vocal choir in this program.
The chorus of the Federated Colored Catholics,
Chapter No. 1, Philadelphia, under direction of
Mrs. A. Agnese Holmes, sang Negro folk songs.

The tunes that were enjoyed on the Susque-
hanna River by the raftsmen that plied up and
down the river a half century ago were played by
Squire Samuel Gall of Quarryville, Lancaster
County. Squire Gall is a member of the famous

Slumbering Lodge of Groundhog which in top
hats and frock greets the groundhog every Febru-
ary second to learn of the state of the weather
for the ensuing six weeks.

The Butter Valley Meadow Larks, four lovely
girls from Bally, brought us a lovely Pennsylvania
German folk song that they had learned from
their grandmother. David E. Fuge, a miner min-
strel of VVilkes—Barre, a real find as a ballad
singer, who has learned over a thousand melodies
by rote, sang four anthracite coal miners’ ballads.

A quaint note was sounded by the bow zither,
an ancient folk instrument of the Pennsylvania
Germans revived for our program. The bow
zithers were played by John Hirneisen, 66, and
his brother, Samuel Hirneisen, 72, both of Berks
County. Many of the performers were discovered
by recreation directors in the various Pennsyl-
vania towns, and a number of communities shared
in this unusual folk festival which reviewed the
recreation of their forefathers.

NOTE: Reading of this joyous folk festivaI
with its informality and naturalness, one is re-
minded of the definition of folk dancing given by
Elizabeth Burchenal in Folk Dancing As a Recre—
ation for Adults.

“Real folk dancing is the simple, happy, un-
sophisticated, social'(in the true sense of the
word) dancing of peasants, which has sprung just
as naturally from the hearts of.the pe0ple in re-
sponse to theahuman need for self—expression,
play and social intercourse, as wild flowers spring
from the soil.

“In the countries from which they come, folk
dances are the traditional rural community recre-
ation_of thepeople, and contain the very essence
of social group play. They are easy to do; being
simple and unstudied, with stimulating, happy
rhythm (they have an amusing game element),
they call for the participation of the entire crowd
————grandparents, mothers and fathers, young peo—
ple' and children—and provide happy relaxation,
pleasant physical activity, forgetfulness of self,
and sociability. The folk music of these dances is

'simple, melodious and ‘catchy,’ and together

with the singing which often accompanies it, adds

.to the warm humanizing atmosphere.

“These qualities give folk dancing a universal
appeal and make it applicable to our own every—
day life as an innocent, wholesome, happy form
of relaxation and social enjoyment.”

Music and the Dance

By GEORGE SYME, JR.

UR SUMMER dance programs are now his-
Otory. Their success or failure has depended

largely upon the leaders, the facilities and
the programs. Behind all successful dance pro-
jects have been two important factors—organiza-
tion and administration. Much thought and con-
sideration have been given to the careful selec-
tion of dances, music, methods, characteristics and
abilityof the pupils.

Definite aims and objectives must be decided
upon to insure the educational and recreative
values of the dance. A plan and schedule should
be laid out for the entire year. This should in-
clude a daily, weekly, monthly and seasonal pro-
gram. This will give the director the opportunity
to recheck his work daily, making notes of inci—
dents of special interest and importance. A sys-
tem based on these factors affords an excellent
opportunity to survey the‘success of the year’s
work and assists in making corrections and
changes for future years.

The Value of Music in Dancing

No program of “dancing is complete unless some
time has been devoted to teaching the basic ele-
ments of music. Many of our present classes are
conducted with little or no musical aid, nor 'is
time devoted to the coordination of these two
arts. Some dances, it is true, such as folk dances
and games, require no instrumental assistance,
but nevertheless time should be devoted to teach-
ing the participants the simple folk tunes and
words so that they can ably
accompany themselves as they
dance. There are some en-
' thusiasts of the dance who are
desirous of going to extremes
and eliminating all music from
dancing, thus restoring it to its
rightful place as an independ—
ent art. This type of program
has been experimented with
and while possibly suited for

314

Much might be written on the subiect
of music and its relation to dancingI
but space permits only of brief men-
tion here. Additional information may
be secured by addressing Mr. Syme
in care of RECREATION. As was sug-
gested in the first article of this series
which appeared in the August issue.
the author will be glad to devote
some space in this page to answer-
ing questions 'From readers.

some stage and concert artists, teachers in the
field of recreation should use it only with dis-
cretion.

Music has nearly always been associated with
dancing, and while it is true that music came from
the dance and took the basic elements of its form
and structure, the dance has not developed as
rapidly as music, its allied art. Because of this
rapid growth we must go today to music to ex-
perience the full realization of the possibilities of
the dance.

Appreciation of Good Music

It is the opinion of many teachers that pupils
with little or no knowledge of dancing are not in-
terested in good music but prefer to listen and
dance to current jazz tunes lacking in beauty,
melody and descriptive ideas. As the pupil pro-
gresses in the art of dancing an appreciation of
better music becomes evident. This statement in
no way reflects upon the present desire for popu-
lar music, but educational authorities agree that a
proper balance should be maintained in regard to
both the old and the new types of music, with not
too much emphasis on any one type.

Rhythm and Tempo

Rhythm is present in all forms and activities of
every day life. Those who possess some knowl-
edge of it have an invaluable aid and conception
of its uses in education, art and physical life.
Rhythm, psychologists assert, aids learning and
eliminates wasteful mental and
physical energy. Some one has
aptly defined rhythm as the
“ordered movement which runs
through all beauty.” Rhythm
properly instructed in dancing
aids the pupil in making read-
justments and changes to other
activities. Physical educators
believe that due to its im-

(Contimccd on page 326)

 

Paving the Way for Recreation

1TH THE subjects of de-

molition of unlit housing

and the new leisure gain-
ing increasing holds on the thought and effort of
all those who are interested in civic betterment,
the possibility of using the demolition program as
.a wedge for providing new and worthwhile recre-
ation for the residents of the low cost residential
districts of our large cities resolves itself into a
plan which must ultimately become practicable.
However Utopian the dreams of accomplishment
may seem at present, largely because of the lack
-of the necessary funds to carry them out, efforts
to provide adequate recreational and playground
facilities for these neighborhoods will undoubt-
-edly be the next big step in playground develop-
ment in this country.

As our cities have grown from the days when
the village green and the common sufhced as a
center of recreation for the town, there have
simultaneously come into existence large low cost
rental areas made up largely of dwellings aban-
doned by their original owners who have continu-
ously moved farther and farther from the city
center. These buildings are at present inhabited
largely by the foreign element in the population
or by those who must always remain in the low
cost rental class. During the days of expansion
of business and the growth of factories, owners
of such properties followed a plan of letting their
buildings become run down; the real estate, it was
planned, would be sold for factory sites. With the
coming of the general economic depression, how-
ever, such expansion ceased, but the buildings and
the neighborhoods have con-
tinued on the downhill grade.

A part of the problem here
presents itself: These prop-
erty owners must be con-
vinced that certain neighbor-
hoods will, for a considerable
number of years at least, re—
main low cost residential
areas and that the respectable
element of this lowest strata
of the renting public should

be given recognition as a Time Activities.

By DOROTHY M. BAKER
Chicagol Illinois

"In the future the success of the public
housing movement will be measured
chiefly on the basis of its contribution
toward making human life happier and
richer. Fruitful and satisfying use of
leisure time is one of the ways to be
happy. Public housing bodies therefore
cannot fail to take this splendid oppor-
tunity to include in their plans facilities
for leisure time activites."—Abrabam
GoldIfeld in Toward Fuller Living
Through Public Housing and Leisure

block of society that deserves
consideration in the matter of

, decent homes and environment
as much as any other part of society. ‘The present
prevailing attitude affords nothing in the way of
respectable living and recreational facilities for
those who desire it and those who could be edu-
cated to desire it. Under present economic con-
ditions there is no place for those people to live
where they can get respectability except in these
lowest cost rental districts.

The benefits from the millions of dollars spent
in public recreation facilities have sometimes been
slow in accruing for this group. After the village
green became impractical, many years passed be-
fore parks were changed from spaces. set aside
for rest and horticultural displays to places where
once again young and old might find relaxation
through active play. In fact, this change did not
come about until the twentieth century, but even
then, for by that time cities had grown to such
size that distances and transportation were a prob-
lem, these parks did not benefit the majority of
those who needed them most. Dickie, who had a
yard with grass and trees in it surrounding his
home, enjoyed the park and its playground equip-
ment, but Ikey and Sambo, who lived miles away
and had only the alley and street, to play in, were
not often allowed to spend carfare to go to and
from the park.

What Are the Conditions?

And so to make our picture chronological and
to afford a background for the argument that real
effort is needed to better
these conditions, let us look
at the type of environment in
which these children have
grown up and the kind of
recreation into which they
have necessarily drifted. That
a real argument is necessary
cannot be doubted, because
such groups as the Metro-
politan Housing Council of
Chicago, a pioneer in this
movement, depend on the en-

315

316 PAVING THE I'VAY FOR RECREATION

VWW .

 

listment of the sympathy and the effort of groups
such as women’s clubs and socially inclined indi-
viduals and organizations for their continuance.
if not for their instigation. The Support of work-
ers in the recreational and educational fields is no
less needed than that of women who, with their
increased leisure, are finding effort along this line
an outlet for their natural tendencies toward com-
fort making and home making.

The homes from which these children and
adults of the low cost rental areas come are. in
the first place, homes which they want to get out
of as much as possible. In their present condition
of disrepair, these homes are so sordid that any
recreation and enjoyable relaxation there is im-
posmble. Investigation of a small area in Chicago
in connection with the program of demolition and
rehabilitation being carried on there showed that
of 309 apartments of from two to seven rooms,
“about 50 per cent had toilet facilities; 110 were
without bath tubs. In the worst three buildings,
housing thirty—two families, there was not' a sin—
gle tub. Each toilet served about ten people. One
building not only had no window in either kitchen
or toilet, but cooking water was drawn from the
toilet supply. The average house was wired, but
two-thirds of the families were using lamps, only
a third having electricity; in two houses current
was being stolen.” Similar investigations of 1,799
housing units in Milwaukee disclosed the fact that
51 had no sanitary facilities whatsoever; 36 per
cent of all bedrooms in use were illegal, being less
than 80 square feet; 50 per cent of all units had
no bath tubs; 10 per cent of the families housed
in these buildings use water—closets jointly with
other families.

Overcrowding in most of these homes is another
factor rendering them unsuited to any type of ac-

Play rooms are now popular in
* houses of all kinds. These "before
L and after" pictures show a cellar

in a Queens Village' Long Island,
home converted into a recreation
room for billiards, ping pong and
bridge parties. Sheet iron made
the walls shutting off the furnace
and other portions of the cellar.
Plaster board formed the doors.
The windows were hinged at the
bottom. To give a light appear-
ance glossy white paint was used
on the ceiling. The walls were
first painted light yellow then

tive play. At the peak of the 1932 eviction pro—
gram carried on by landlords in Chicago it was
found that a five-story building, less than one-
half block square, contained fewer than 100 apart-
ments housing 780 white and Negro tenants.
There was no central heating plant and toilet fa—
cillities consisted of two bowls on each floor. The
building had been built about 1893 and was then
in an outlying. high class residential district. At
the present time, more than 300 persons are still
living in the building.

The Results

From such homes the child goes forth to play
in narrow alleys and small courtyards where an
insufficient amount of sUnlight penetrates to the
ground. The resulting health hazards and their
toll in tuberculosis alone is only one of the im-
portant public health angles of this whole problem
of the provision of adequate play space in such
neighborhoods. That the problem reaches into the
taxpayer’s pocket cannot be disputed when we
consider that while millions of dollars are spent
for the upkeep of sanatoria, these disease-breeding
areas are allowed to vitiate all effort of stamping
out disease. \Vhile the broader streets may afford
more sunlight, they do not afford opportunities
for big muscle play. The public parks and beaches,
several miles distant, are used in the summer
when walking is used as a means of getting there
or when rides can be caught.

The stealing of rides on trucks and automobiles
introduces the safety problem, which is still an-
other important argument in the cause of demo-
lition and improvement in these neighborhoods.
One of the most serious aspects of this problem
is the fact that discarded, unsafe buildings are
played in by children. What boy does not like to

PAVING THE WAY FOR RECREATION ' 317

given a coat of salmon. Before
the second coat was dry it was
gone over with a crumpled news-
paper applied with a swirling
movement so that the yellow
shows through. The doors were
painted yellow. Shades for the
lights were made of parchment.
The catch-all feature of the
cellar is preserved by making a
closet under the stairs. A bag
is hung under the stairs and one
of the top s’reps hinged so that
it can be lifted up and refuse
sent down a chute.

climb and to explore? These boys are no excep-
tion. \Vherever a window has been broken to af-
ford a means of entrance, these dark firetraps
with their unhealthful character, their loose
boards and rickety stairways become playgrounds
for children eager for fun and activity, but aside
from the unhealthfulness, many are the accidents
which result.

Playing and congregating in groups in the
streets naturally leads to the rise of gangdom as
the child grows into the youth. The influence of
this type of social outlet on the mental and physi-
cal well-being of our young people has been too
well demonstrated to need discussion. The inci-
dence of mental disease, crime and juvenile delin-
quency has been shown to be greatest in the con—
gested areas of our great cities where as many as
nine persons are often herded into two rooms. In
the consideration of the recreational life afforded
young people in these communities we may also
include adults, for it is also well known that street
playgrounds cannot avoid rapidly maturing the
minds of these youths while they are still young
in years. And so from the pitiful plight of the
children we shift to the depressing situation of
the older group.

As these neighborhoods are generally solidly
built up, there are, of course, the usual run of
cheap moving picture theaters where an evening’s
entertainment is an event indeed, however medi-
ocre the program. Extremely scarce and not even
scratching the surfaceiin supplying the need are
settlement houses and social centers. There are
no lending libraries and no branches of the public
library, for books are not a favorite recreation of
these people of little education. The fees charged
by lending libraries could not be afforded and
both this type of library and the public library

 

would suffer considerable financial loss as the re-
sult of improper care of books loaned to such
patrons. In the consideration of providing for the
leisure time of this adult group, the problem of
the abandoned building again presents itself. While
it unfortunately enough affords a playground for
children, it also plays a much more sinister role in
providing seclusion for illicit practices on the part
of youths and adults. With the streets on which
their homes face often witnessing the business of
prostitution, it can hardly be surprising that a low
moral character is liable to penetrate homes and
families which would remain on a higher plane in
better environments. ’

Here enters one of the objects of the plan to
which the present work of demolition is but a
stepping stone. I referred in the beginning to the
new attitude which must be taken regarding the
low cost rental area. It is hoped that ultimately a
Spirit of community feeling and pride may be
built up in many of these districts so that al-
though they will continue to be in the lowest
strata of rents they will, nevgrtheless, be respecta-
ble neighborhoods for the respectable poor. This
especially applies to the Negro population of many
of our cities. The program of demolitiOn of
totally unfit buildings, the rehabilitation of others
that' are still inhabitable and the provision of play
areas is not being carried on in a hit and miss
manner. Concentration of effort rather than the
tearing down of an isolated building here and the
improvement of another there will make it pos-
sible for the landlord to select desirable tenants
who will keep up the higher standard of: the par-
ticular district, and it will also help to assure those
tenants who desire a better environment for them-
selves and for their children that the other ele—
ment will be kept out of that particular area.

318 PAVING THE WAY FOR RECREATION

How Demolition Will Help

Demolition of unfit housing points the way to
improvement of these conditions. It is paving the
way, hrst, by removing firetraps and hazards to
life, health and morals, and secondly, by opening
up areas in which there will be given a chance to
play. Where at present in the congested districts
of Chicago there are only isolated, small open
areas, most of them much less than a half block
in size, when some 4,000 buildings have been torn
down, it is hoped that a tenth of the space they
occupy, or approximately 24 city blocks, will be
Specifically prepared for playground space. The
remainder of the ground will either be left vacant
or used for such commercial purposes as parking
lots. One owner of an industrial site in Chicago
who wants his building torn down has specifically
stated that he wishes to donate the use of the land
for a baseball diamond for the boys -of the neigh-
borhood. Property owners adjacent to other such
sites have organized to promote improvements of
this type in their neighborhoods by offering to
landscape and make these playgrounds attractive.
Still other lots will be conditioned as to surface
and left with a level, smooth surface free of glass,
nails, stones and cinders so that children may
healthfully and safely enjoy their games of mar—
bles, baseball or handball. Narrow lots will be
equipped for horseshoe pitching to be enjoyed by
young and old alike. While it has been thought
that larger spaces could be economically equipped
for tennis, this is precluded in some neighbor-
hoods where, by the nature of the case, a boy who
appeared on the street with a tennis racket would
-be branded a “sissy” and find the racket hanging
around his neck! Other areas that are logically
situated and adaptable to park purposes will be
landscaped and made into small public parks.

The program of démolition and rehabilitation
as carried on by the Housing Division of the Pub-
lic W'orks Administration in cooperation with
local groups is everywhere in the pioneer stage
and is handicapped by the general lack of money
to back it, in spite of the fact that considerable
money is now available for federal housing pro-
jects and that projects for a number of cities are
now under examination. Because the financial
resources of organizations to which the plan
might logically look for support are more than
absorbed by the pressing demands due to the eco-
nomic condition of the country, financial backing
of extensive playground equipment for these em—
bryonic playgrounds cannot be counted on at the

present time. The funds of private philanthrophy
are spent for rent and maintenance of families,
and federal funds available for work along this
line are absorbed by the work of demolition and
the,rehabilitation of actual dwellings. The only
immediate hope for any considerable improve—
ment of these playgrounds then lies in donations
from property owners of the neighborhoods,
either individually or in groups, or in donations of
outworn playground equipment from municipal
park or education boards. Such municipal par—
ticipation might also well include the provision of
playground supervisors, for certainly no group of
children or men ever more needed direction to-
ward proper appreciation of their leisure time.
The increased leisure which is being forced on
workers everywhere, whether because of unem-
ployment or shorter working hours, is naturally
increasing the need of some direction to the pro-

nition in the case of both the young and the old
of the slum neighborhoods. Their play time will
change from drab to bright if the program of
demolition and of rehabilitation continues to show
them the oy of active play beneath the blue sky.

In the Five-Year Report issued by the Michi-
gan Boulevard Garden Apartments Building Cor—
poration of Chicago, which has promoted a low-
priced housing project for Negroes, much testi-
mony is offered regarding the value of providing
recreational facilities and activities in connection
with projects of this nature. We quote from the
report which describes in some detail the various
educational and recreational activities conducted:

“It has been the experience of the Management
of this project that a well-rounded community
program, with adequate facilities and space for
carrying out such a program, is money well spent,
and is not only consistent with but essential to
sound business management.

“Our experience confirms a conviction that
some form of tenants’ organization, initiated by
the Management, should be started at the opening
of a housing project, whether it is private or gov—
ernmental. . . . Activities of creative and construc-
tive expression constitute a program which must
be provided for early in the development of a pro-

ject and continuously stimulated by the Manage-
ment.”

WORLD AT PLAY

 

L A S T Christmas a
number of the Kiwan-
ians of Detroit, Mich-
igan, became interest-
ed in the children of one of the city’s congested
districts through delivering some Christmas
' baskets for the Salvation Army. They pre—
sented the case of these underprivileged chil-
dren to their fellow Kiwanians with the happy
result that arrangements were made last sum-
mer with the Department of Street Railways
to transport 600 children to and from Belle
Isle each week for seven weeks. Through Rec-
reation Commissioner Brewer arrangements
were made for two SERA playground direc-
tors to be in charge. Business men with or
without Kiwanian membership whose business
was in food stuffs cooperated by providing
luncheons. Community fund ofhcials working
in conjunction with public and parochial school
officials in the district made the selection of the
children who attended the stay-at-home camps.

Detroit Has Its
Day Camp

BY reducing the daily
golf fee to 35 cents,
50 cents and 75 cents
and by renting golf
clubs at 15 cents, the Public Recreation Com-
mission of Cincinnati, Ohio, has brought the
cost of golf down to that of attending a movie.
During one Spring month 1,200 beginners in
golf filled all the classes offered.

Cincinnati Reduces
Cost of Golf

ON July Ist, Scran-
ton, Pennsylvania,
dedicated its new field
house in Weston
Park, the gift to the city of Mr. and Mrs.
Charles S. Weston in memory of his sister,
Mrs. Caroline Weston Bird, who with Mr.
Weston years ago made gifts to the city which
meant the establishment of organized recrea—
tion in Scranton.

' Scranton Dedicates Its
New Field House

T H E report of the
Cedar Rapids, Iowa,

Playground Commis- '
sion from April I,
1934, to March 31, 1935, tells of the progress of
children’s gardens in that city. Fourteen hun—
dred children interested in community and

Children’s Gardens in
Cedar Rapids

“home gardens met once a week under the di-

rection of the garden director. Two acres of
ground were used and twenty-five varieties
of vegetables and twenty—seven varieties of
flowers were raised. As a new venture some
of the children 'planted cotton seed and al—
though it did not fully mature, they derived
much enjoyment in watching its development.
In addition to the products which the children
harvested and sold or took home, they gave
to the needy of the city six bushels of beans,
tomatoes and carrots.

THE Equestrian

Club of W'yoming
Valley, Pennsylvania,
sponsored by the Wy-
oming Valley Playground and Recreation
Association, has a membership of 175 people
who pay dues of one dollar a year. The pro-
gram of the club includes weekly Sunday
morning breakfast rides, moonlight rides, and
a club night held every two weeks when the
members combine a business meeting with
their riding. Dances and dinner meetings also

play their part in the club’s social aii‘airs.

The Wyoming Valley
Equestrian Club

WILLIAM S. Ballen-
ger and his wife have
donated to the chil-
dren of Flint, Michi-
gan, a nine—acre tract to be developed as a mod-
ern playground. The project will eventually
include a tennis court, facilities for volley ball,
paddle tennis, croquet and baseball, play-

ground apparatus, and picnic benches and
stoves.

More Gifts of Land
for Recreation

319

320 . WORLD AT PLAY

 

  

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

DIAMOND

PIT CHING
HORSESHOES

A few courts of horseshoes will add
much to your playground. Write for
free instruction booklets on organiz-
ing horseshoe clubs and official rules.
DIAMOND Official shoes and ac-
cessories are the choice of profes-
sionals and amateurs alike. Preferred
because of their excellent construc-
tion—their high quality materials.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
4610 GRAND AVE. DULUTH. MINN.

 
   

Through the generosity of the late General
Trexler, the City of Allentown, Pennsylvania,
has received by deed a park of 100 acres beau-
tifully landscaped and an endowment of a
quarter of a million dollars for its maintenance.
‘The County of Leigh received General Trex-
ler’s 1,800—acre game preserve, also endowed
.and fully stocked with deer, elk, buffalo, quail,
pheasants and some foxes. A CCC camp is
being established on the preserve and some
picnic areas are being developed for public use.

Recreation in Grand Forks—The Board of
Park Commissioners of Grand FOrks, North
Dakota, in July held a water carnival which
was made particularly interesting and success-
ful through the cooperation of a traveling show
troupe which was spending the week in a tour-
ist camp in the park where the carnival was
held. An admission fee of 25 c'en-ts for adults
and 10 cents for children was charged, half of
the proceeds from which went to the troupe,
the balance fOr a fund to provide a recirculation

.system for the pool.
One of the small parks of the city has been

closed for a number of years .because of th

financial situation. The Parent-Teachers Asso
ciation in that district has taken so great an
interest". in the park that the Park Board re—
opened it, cleaned it and installed some play
apparatus taken from other playgrounds where
it was not needed. The P.T.A. worked out a
program for the Summer, installing a children’s
library in the shelter house and placing in
charge an F ERA recreation worker with some
volunteer assistants. “I am sure,” writes Mrs.
M. B. Kannowski, Superintendent of Parks,
that park boards would all appreciate this type
of volunteer c00peration instead of the insis-
tent demand that certain sports and activities
be carried on regardless of the financial condi—
tion of the board.”

   
     

Regional Nature Museums in Palisades
Interstate Park—Five regional nature muse-
ums on lakes devoted to group camping in the
Harriman section of the Palisades Interestate
Park are now active centers of instruction with
material taken from the rich flora and fauna
of the region for the thousands of boys and
girls and adult campers. The museums, estab-
lished fifteen years ago in simple rock struc—
tures, are now housed in new stone buildings
erected during the past three years from labor
and material supplied by the New York State
TERA. The museums are in charge of trained
naturalists.

Flint’s Recreation Council—The Recreation
Council in Flint, Michigan, according to “Nar—
ratives of Achievement in Community Plan-
ning,” Bulletin No. 81 issued by the Commu-
nity Chests and Councils, Inc., of New York
City, has been an extremely active one. All
agencies within the city, public and private,
having an interest or a program in the broad
field of recreation are includbd. Since its in-
ception this council has served to a marked de-
gree to integrate the work of these formerly
unrelated institutions. In the field of athletics
programs have been developed for the less
skilled and the younger groups and coopera-
tion has been secured among the various Or-
ganizations in the joint use of facilities. The
most notable undertaking was the provision of
a comprehensive summer recreation program
first attempted in the summer of 1933.

WORLD AT PLAY

Juvenile Delinquency Reduced in Los An-

geles—According to the records of police offi-'

cials in Los Angeles, California, approximately
1,800 children of the delinquency or predelin-
quency class are enjoying sports and recrea-
tional activies at the- six municipal play-
grounds of the Hollenbeck district where they
are checking in regularly with the directors in
charge. This program, together with the co-
operative arrangement between police, parents
and civic organizations, has helped in curtail-
ing delinquency more than 50 per cent during
the past two years, according to the police offi-
cials of the district. Very few gangs of children
are now to be found on the streets in this

section.

More Night Play—The Board of Education
of Duluth, Minnesota, has authorized a bond
issue of $17,000 for the improvement of the
public schools’ stadium to provide increased
seating and lighting facilities for night sports.

In Merrill, Wisconsin, a community of
8,000 people, a floodlight system for playing
night football and baseball has been purchased
by the city to be paid for over a period of sev-
eral years out of the city’s income from admis-
sions.

New Legislation in Wisconsin—New legis-
lation passed in Wisconsin authorizes county
boards to appropriate money for recreational
purposes’ to be paid by cities, villages and
towns receiving benefits, but such expenditure
must be authorized by a city council or village
or town board.

Play Streets for London—Influenced by the
fact that large numbers of children are in-
volved in street accidents, the Minister of
Transport of London has decided to convert
a number of streets in congested areas in Lon-
don into play streets prohibiting automobile
traffic on them. It is reported that of the 3.517
pedestrians killed on British roads in 1933,
1,171 or one—third were under’the age of fifteen.

Detroit Goes on Parade—More than 6,000
children took part in the annual novelty
parades held in June at 90 playgrounds main-
tained by the Department of Recreation in
Detroit, Michigan. Gay wagons and miniature
floats drawn by children dressed in colorful
costumes were features of the events.

Why the CARROM
TOU R NAM E N T
PROGRAM merits

your active support

The Carrom Tournament idea was self-
1 originated among thousands of boys’

groups and clubs without suggestions or
incentives from the makers of Carrom Game
Boards.

The National Carrom Association was
2 organized to give the Tournament idea

direction and encouragement; to formu-
late rules; supply complete instructions; and
provide Carrom Club membership badges
and Championship prizes.

Boys and girls are being urged to join

Carrom Clubs through national adver-

tising in American Boy, Boy’s Life,
Scouting, Open Road for Boys, St. Nicholas,
and Boys’ and Girls’ Newspapers. The larg-
est share of the organizational work is com-
pleted by club members themselves.

Carroms is purely a game of skill—it is
one of the few games in which dice or
cards are not employed.

The expense of conducting a Carrom
5 Tournament is negligible as far as club

members and sponsors are concerned.
Individual members contribute a maximum
of 10¢ each to help defray mailing costs.
When membership exceeds 10, a special club
discount of 40% is extended, making the
cost per participant only 69‘. '

A Carrom Tournament creates maxi-

mum interest with minimum organiza-

tional effort and expense. Write for full
information.

This beautiful Car- Carrom Tournament
rom Club member- champions are
ship badge. cast in awarded this valua-
solid bronze, is sent bie medaliion by the
to every 0 a r r o m National Carrom As-
Club Tournament socation.

applicant.

NATIONAL CARROM
ASSOCIATION

I000 LUDINGTON AVENUE
LUDINGTON + + MICHIGAN

321

 

322 WORLD AT PLAY

 

N O D U ST
to Endanger Health

. . . 0r mar Pleasure

 

0 Dust is unsanitary under any circum-
stances but is particularly obiecfion-
able where children play. Modern
playgrounds use SOLVAY Calcium
Chloride to eliminate dusl’ positively
and inexpensively and give children a

aying surface. .

Furthermorel S O L V A Y Calcium
Chloride l<ills germs. Its effective
germicidal action has wOn the un-
qualified endorsemenf of physicians
and playground directors.

firm, compact p

Solvay Calcium Chloride is positively
harmless. does not track or stain.
Easily applied. Just spread evenly
over the surface. That's all. Nature
does the rest.

IOO conveniently located shipping,
poinl’s assure prompt delivery and
minimum transportation charges.
Write for full information and prices.

S 0 LVAY

TRADE MARK REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.

Calcium Chloride
SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

Alkalies and Chemical Products Manufactured by
The Solvay Process Company

40 RECTOR STREET NEW YORK
BRANCH OFFICES:

Boston Indianapolis Cleveland Pittsburgh

Chlcago Kansas Clty Detroit St. Louls

Cincinnati Philadelphia Houston Syracuse

 

New York to Have a High School for Art
and Music — The Nation’s Schools for July
tells of the establishment by the public schools
of New York City of a music and art high
school. The institution will eventually be
housed in its own ‘building, but when it opens
in the autumn or in January, 1935, the coedu-
cational school of music, the drama and the
dance will occupy the old building of New
York Teachers’ Training College. A girls’ art
high school will be quartered at \Vashington
Irving High School, while a boys’ art high school'
will be conducted in the Franklin High School.
The school will give a regular academic course in
addition to its special cultural training. Enroll-

ment for the first year will probably be limited
to I00 pupils.

A Study of a Boys’ Club—A. E. Howell,
General Supervisor, Board of Public \Velfare,
Worcester, Massachusetts, calls attention to a
study of the membership of the Worcester
Boys’ Club made in 1931 of the boys who were
members of the club in the years 1915—18 in-
clusive. Of 3,533 boys, 2,421, or 71 per cent,
were located approximately fifteen years later.
Only 168, 0r 7 per cent of them, have been ar-
rested for delinquency or crime in the fifteen
year period. This is particularly significant in
view of the fact that members of the club come
from the poorest sections of the city out of
which Come the largest number of delinquents.

A Mayor Boosts Parks——At the third annual
meeting of the park and recreation section of
the League of Wisconsin Municipalities, Mayor
George Oaks of Oshkosh, Wisconsin, stated
that he believed a park commission consisting
of citizens is the best form of park administra-
tion. He also stressed the idea of selling parks
to the public so that ~Lpark budgets will not be
left as the last order of business when making
up the municipal budget.

A Traveling Library —- In Monongahela
County, \Vest Virginia, forty-seven people are
employed on the recreation project. These
workers are conducting a variety of activities.
Two of them, librarians, are taking the county
traveling library throughout the rural sections,
delivering books, magazines and phonograph
records to the communities which have no
other library facilities.

AMONG OUR FOLKS 323

Among Our Folks

N JULY 1, 1935, Lewis R. Barrett resigned
0 his position in the Housing Division of the
Federal Emergency Administration on Public
Works to become Recreation Coordinator for
the District of Columbia.

In the summer of 1934, at the request of the
National Capital Park and Planning Commis-
sion, the National Recreation Association
made a survey looking toward the unification
or coordination of recreational activities of the
District of Columbia. Following this survey,
the President appointed a committee consist-
ing of representatives from the District Com-
missioners, the Board of Education and the
National Park Service. of the Department of
the Interior, with the Chairman of the Na-
tiOnal Capital Park and Planning Commission
to secure a coordinator for the recreational ac-
tivities and facilities provided under the auspi-
ces of the first three of these organizations
who shouldserve as far as possible as unifying
executive for the total recreation service of the
District. It is to this position of coordinating
leadership that Mr. Barrett has been called.

From May, 1929, to September, 1934, Mr.
Barrett had served as recreation executive for
Newark, New Jersey, and from October, 1922,
to May, 1929, in Des Moines, Iowa.

Raymond Hoyt, formerly of the L0s An-
geles' Playground and Recreation Department,
who recently served as Supervisor of the State
Recreation Project in California sponsored by
the State Department of Education, has ac-
cepted a position with the Housing Division of
the Federal Emergency Administration on
Public Works in Washington, D. C.

Viola Armstrong, formerly on the staff of
the Recreation Department in Detroit, Mich-
igan, and for the past two years recreation
field worker for‘ an insurance company serving
the State of Michigan extensively, recently re-

joined the Detroit Recreation Department
staff.

20th and 21st the New England Conference
of Museums was held at Worcester, Massa-
chusetts. The opening address by Laurence
Vail Coleman, Director of the American Asso-
ciation of Museums, reviewed the growth of
the museum during the past twelve or thirteen
years. It told an interesting story of progress

A Conference of Museums—On October

 

‘

T'S just good business when planning a new playground.
I gymnasium, or swimming pool' or remodeling the old ones'

to consult with Louden engineers. Here. long experienced
highly trained Specialists in Recreational devices and layout
planning are ready to give you recommendations. specifica-
tions and cost estimates . . . all without obligation. And.
Louden Equipment . . . safe. dependable. moderately priced
. . . gives one of the largest and
most varied lines of quality de-
vices. many items of exclusive 

Louden design. Talre advantage
of this free service. Write today

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT

for full particulars. -

J.E.PORTER CORPORATION

 

120 BROADWAY °

 

 

OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

 

both as to numbers of museums—art, history,
natural science and industry—and as to their
expanding service. Throughout the conference
it was increasingly evident that museums are
primarily leisure-time institutions which are
destined to play an important part in the plan
for the use of leisure time.

Story-Telling Hours—Through the cooper-
ation of the public library of Cincinnati, Ohio,
it has been possible for assembly rooms in
some of 'the branch libraries to be used by the
Public Recreation Commission for story-tell—
ing. A public shelter building and a community
house have also been used. Play leaders, school
teachers and others interested volunteered their
services for the story-telling sessions. A total
of over 1,100 bpys and girls attended.

Public Dances in Buffalo——Under the ERA
the Buffalo, New York, Museum of Science was
one of the places in the city where weekly outdoor
dances were held last summer. Each Thursday
night from 8:3 to 10:30 an average attendance

of 3,000 was reported. The orchestra was an
ERA project.

324 WAYS TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE

Ways to Musical Good Fortune
(Continued from page 288)

mental and physical well-being does that. As
for every one of life’s best rewards, the indi-
vidual must go half-way to meet it. And there
are always a million brains devising ways of
making it not only possible but very alluring
for people to have thrills and other semblances
of happiness without going that half-way or
any distance at all. This production of what
are calculated to be regarded as “short cuts to
happiness” is our greatest and most widely
patronized industry. No city or town or any
other agency need engage leaders for that, not
for that alone.

The Recreation Renaissance
(Continued from page 293)

agency that state or county selects. Such parks,
according to the belief of many authorities, can
be self-supporting if properly managed. Fees
for overnight and week-end use and for vaca—
tions in the cabins, for swimming, boating and

fishing, and the returns from the concessions
should help a great deal toward making this
possible. In some places an admission is
charged to the park proper, but this is debatable.

The park program combines conservation,
recreation, restoration, rehabilitation and the
protection of wildlife. Conservation is para-
mount in those areas which are not touched
beyond the construction of trails and cutting
of fire lanes. Recreation thrives in the devel-

. oped tracts with the cabins and the fireplaces

and the lakes.

For the conservation of wildlife there has
been set up within the State Park Division
an organization whose only duty is to see that
all park projects are developed with the wel—
fare of every sort of wildlife always in mind.
This is done by means of a senior wildlife tech—
nician in the Washington office, working
through a field force of technicians assigned
to the various states. In the restoration pro—
gram, adobe villages with no history, and old
settlements and military sites rich with his—
tory, are being restored and rededicated to the

gaéettl Teachingtmatetiai 50': the Recteation Ditectot

The Education Division of the National Safety Council publishes a variety of

material designed to aid in the teaching of safety on the playground or in
the school. We recommend the following:

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE—A monthly publication con-

taining colored posters, graded lesson outlines, short plays
and stories, informational articles, etc.

Price $1.00 a year

THE JUNIOR SAFETY COUNCIL—A handbook of safety activi—
ties containing practical program suggestions, pgtrol organi—

zation and references.

Price $.35

PLAYGROUND PACKET—A collection of safety material for the

playground director. Contains 10 colored safety posters, a
safety play, crayon lessons and instructions for the safe use-

of playground equipment.

Price $1.00

Education Division, National Safety Council

ONE PARK AVENUE

NEW YORK, N. Y.

 

 

‘

  
 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 325

wild young days of a new country. Outstand—
ing are “Lost City,” Nevada, where the Con—
servation Corps has dug a prehistoric Indian
civilization out of the earth to be covered by

‘ Boulder Lake; Fort Frederick, Maryland, a
' veteran 'of three wars; and Fort Macon, grand
, old defender of the North Carolina capes.

In conjunction with the FERA land pro-
gram submarginal tracts are being retired to
conservation and recreation, and the farmers
who scratched that rocky ground are trans-
planted in fertile bottoms or on hillsides that
have not eroded away. This phase of the work
is conducted by the land program’s Recrea-
tional Demonstration Projects Division, in con-
nection with the state park program. The di—
rector is M. C. Huppuch, young one-time CCC
camp superintendent.

And thus, through all these channels, is run-
ning a pleasing blend of conservation and rec—
reation, propelled by the force of a new and
interesting movement.

 

A Husking Bee for That Autumn Party

(Continued from page 302)
Refreshments

These should be served “help-yourself” style
from a long wooden table. Paper napkins, kitchen
plates, cups, knives, forks and spoons may be
used.

Cocoa Pumpkin Pie

Coffee Apple Tarts
Milkshakes Doughnuts

Cider Sandwiches

Punch Gingerbread

Soda Pop Cookies

Corn Candy Corn Bread

Candied Apples Potato Salad

Pears' Cabbage-Carrot Salad
Apples Baked Beans

Nuts Hot Soup and Crackers

 

Community Dances in Lancaster,
(Continued from page 305)

accounts for the continued success of the com-
munity dances. Although they are so carefully
conducted that even the most particular of parents
do not hesitate to allow their young daughters to
attend them unescorted, the dances seem to run
themselves, so far in the background does the
“management” keep itself. That is why, for lif-
teen years, they have been earning the complete

  
  

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 1
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

MAGAZINES
American Forests, July 1935
Unique Nature Trails, by Mary E. Pasco

The Epworth Highroad, August 1935
“I Made It Myself l” by Lucille Lippitt

The National Parent-Teacher Magazine, August 1935

Can Character Be Taught? by Barry Chalmers
Back-Yard Picnics, by Dorothy Blake
In Our Neighborhood, conducted by Alice Sowers

H ygeia, August 1935
What Should Your Child Dance? by Lucile Marsh

Leisure, August 1935

Sport on the Grass Rink, by Walter B. Grover

Music and Leisure, by John Winter Thompson
We Prepare for Play, by Charles E. Randall

John Huston Finley and the ala Sainte Terre Club,
by Chandler D. Ingersoll

Presto l—A Playground, Iby John Coolidge H‘urd

Our Favorite Games, by Ruth M. Luther

Public Management, July 1935

Municipal Recreation for the New Leisure, by
\Veaver W. Pangburn

PAM PH LETS

Houston Recreation Department Annual Report, 1934

Facing the Future, by C. B. Whitnall
Reprinted from Park: and Recreation

Environmental Influence of City and Regional Planning,

by C. B. Whitnall
Reprinted from Park: and Recreation

 

 

approval of parents and unflagging popularity
among the boys and girls for whom they were
instituted.

 

Rochester’s New Swimming Pools
(Continued from page 306)

Service buildings of colonial architecture are
provided in conjunction with both installations.
Exterior walls of these buildings are faced with
Belden brick laid up in Flemish bond. Interior
walls and partitions are faced with salt glazed
brick. Steel sash, kalamein doors and metal door
bucks have been used throughout. Toilet parti—
tions, key cabinets, dressing compartments and
lockers are metal. The roofs are covered with
green Ambler asbestos shingles. Great care was
exercised in the design of these buildings so as to
enforce proper routing of bathers. To prevent
ringworm infection, a shallow foot bath 3 feet IO
inches wide by 6 feet long by 6 inches deep, con-
structed of metal, has been placed adjacent‘ to the
passage from the shower room to the pool. Each

 

326 BUFFALO MULTIPLIES HER PLAY AREAS

PLAYS T32 MONTH

Ready September lst
Describing

NEW PLAYS —-

0 Including a new high school success

by Glenn Hughes entitled "Say It
with Flowers.”

READINGS —

O Newmaterial suitable for all occasions.

FEATURES —

O A New University Theatre by Prof.
Edward C. Mabie of the University
of Iowa.

OTHER PLAYS —

O For Colleges, High Schools. Ele-
mentary Schools. Little Theatres.
Churches. Clubs and Rural Groups.

IVrt'te now for your complimentary copy

FREDERICK B. INGRAM PRODUCTIONS, INC.

ROCK ISLAND. ILL.

bathcr must pass through this foot bath. A con-
tinuous flow of calcium hypochloride is main-
tained to avoid infection.

The entire swimming pool areas will be en-
closed with an artistic picket iron fence, prevent-
ing the use of the pools when not protected by life

guards.
The cost of 'this construction, covering labor

and material, was, in Seneca Park, approximately
$69,000; in Genesce Valley Park, approximately

$149,000.

 

Buffalo Multiplies I-Ier Play Areas
(Continued from page 310)

possible load which the pool may accommodate.
The entrance to the pools is so arranged that no
one may enter without first passing through the
shower baths.

The pools are located in Cazenovia Park—a
large park in South Buffalo in the heart of a sec-
tion of the city with a population of more than
50,000 people. Their need has been felt for many
years since South Buffalo has no access to water
that is free from pollution, and their overwhelm-

 

ing use from the time of their opening proves
that they are meeting a long felt need on the part
of this large community.

 

Music and the Dance
(Continued from page 314)

portance in all phases of every day life, every
effort should be made to develop the ability to
perceive rhythm and incorporate it in our move-
lnents.

There are many children and adults who lack
any knowledge or semblance of feeling of the dif-
ference in types or tempo of various kinds of
music. A good example of this is to be seen on
the average social ballroom floor. Many dancers
not only‘execute fox trot steps to waltz music
but also keep fox trot tempo and disregard any
other time.

Cooperative Programs

Music possibly more than any other art appeals
to man’s emotions and interests. It portrays to
him various feelings and responses characteristic
of all human beings. This offers the dancer the
opportunity to express them in dance form. The
history and story of each piece of music should
be explained so that the class or individual may
understand the circumstances in which the piece
of music developed into its present state of har-
mony and symphony.

Departments of recreation employing both a
dance director and a music director have an ex-
cellent opportunity for cooperative programs.
Dancing instructors and music.teachers should
plan programs which will benefit both groups.
Advice in selection may be obtained from the
music director in planning the dance music. All
types of music should be used in the dance reper-
toire, but a special emphasis should be placed on
good music as it offers ‘21 more fertile field for the
deve10pment and expression of the pupils. Co-
ordination is also possible in the planning of pub-
lie performances. The dance group may often
portray selections of music given by the music
group at pageants, festivals, shows and concerts.

The seasOnal and holiday programs always of-
fer fine possibilities for musical and dance shows.
Plans should be well on their way for a Fall Har-
vest Moon Festival. A program of this type gives
an excellent opportunity to test out the possibili-
ties of such a plan of cooperation and decide the
feasibility of its use in future programs.

 

 

Enchanted Acre

By Gove Hambidge. Whittlesey House. McGraw-Hill
Book Company, New York. $2.50.

ms book should make a wide appeal at just this time

when so many peOple are thinking of the desirability
of going back to the land. lt deals with the lure of the
land and the possibilities of country living, and tells of
rich personal experiences and adventures extending over
many years, o—ften in the face of eeonomic hardship. Mr.
Hambidge recommends country life for the real satis-
factions it offers the individual, but advises against sub-
sistenee farming as a general solution to the economic
problem. His adviee is summed up in the following:

“I would say to any one who is fed up with his par-
ticular way of life and who longs to chuck it all and go
and live on a little place in the country: Know thyself;
seareh well, friend, and know whether it is farming you
want, or freedom. If it is freedom, as I suspect, this be-
ing the more universal longing of men, then watch out
that you do not merely exchange country slavery for
city slavery, one yoke for another yoke that will prove
not less galling to the neck."

A Little Handbook on Adult Education

By Frederick L. Fagley. The Pilgrim Press, Boston.
$.10.

ans PAMPHLET represents a brief outline of the prin-
ciples of adult education and touches upon subjects
as the principles, the group, the leader, the procedure and
the material. It gives in Concise form the principles un-
derlying the adult education movement.

Five-Year Report of the Michigan
Boulevard Garden Apartments
Building Corporation

Michigan Boulevard Garden Apartments Building Cor-
poration, Chicago, Illinois.

LL INTERESTED in low priced housing and in the de-

development of recreation facilities in connection
with such projects will want to see the Five-Year Re-
port of the Michigan Boulevard Garden Apartments
Building Corporation in the development of which the
late Julius Roscnwald played so important a part. The
report tells in some detail of the social and recreational
features deveIOped and states: “A well-rounded com-
munity program of recreation and education is not only
consistent with but essential to sonnd business manage-
ment.” Furthermore, the report states: “All activities of
creative and constructive expression constitute a prOgram
which must be provided for early in the development of
a project and continuously stimulated by the manage-
ment.”

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

    

Guide to Sports and Outdoor

Recreations

Compiled by Wilson M. Ranek. Obtainable from The
H. W. Wilson Company, New York. $.75.

Recast/snort WORKst will find this a very valuable bibli-
ography covering a selected list of books from 1918
to December 31, 1934. Part I contains, in addition to a
list of general books, books on the following subjects:
Baseball, football, basketball, track and field athletics,
Olympie games, golf, court games, field games, swim-
ming and diving, rowing, ice sports, self-defense, and
minor sports. ln Part 11 are to be found books on hunt-
ing and fishing, shooting, trapping, archery, outdoor life,
camping, canoeing, sailing, boat building, hiking, moun-
taineering, horsemanship and winter sports.

Outdoor and Community Games

By Sid G. Hedges. J. B. Lippincott Company, Phila-
adelphia. $1.25.

MANY new and diverting games, about 250 in all, de-

signed for both children and grown-ups of all ages
are described in this book. There are games for use at
the picnic, in the camp, on the lawn, by the sea, on the
playground, on the snow and ice, in the water, on a ship,
at the fete, in the woods, at the ehildren's outing, and in
the car or motor coach. Thirty diagrams make the des-
eriptions more elear.

Character Dances for School Programs

By Hilda Clute Kozman. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $2.00.
0 rm: armaarros' worker, teacher or other leader who
is called on to furnish entertaining dance pr0grams
for meetings and special occasions of various kinds, this
book will be a help in time of need. Each of the twenty-
four dances described—and music accompanies each—is
illustrated to suggest appropriate costumes. A careful
analysis of the steps used is included.

Leisure in Our Time

Analysis and interpretation by Stewart G. Cole, Ph.D.
Delaware County Welfare Council. Court House,
Media, Pennsylvania. $1.00.

Even since its inception the Recreation Division of the

Delaware County, Pennsylvania, Welfare Council
has had as one of its major objectives a survey of the
recreational facilities and opportunities of the county.
This objective was eventually achieved when the Dela-
ware County Park Board obtained from the CWA the
necessary funds to engage a force of investigators and a
supervisor to make a careful study. As a result of the
study, definite recommendations have been made involv-
ing the appointing of a recreation director for the county

and of a thoroughly representative committee of recrea-
tion advisers.

327

328 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Treasure Chest.

Compiled by Clarence A. Westphal. Literary Ex-
plorers. G. C. Manthorne and Company, Charles
and Pinckney Streets, Boston, Massachusetts. Paper
cover, $.30.

This booklet represents a compilation of passages from
the lbest poetry for use by members of the Literary Ex-
plorers’ Club started several years ago by a band of
young people in Manchester, New Hampshire, who de-
cided to embark on a voyage of exploration in search of
the “buried treasure” to be found in the great storehouse
of books. When these explorers made the discovery that
the lbest way to keep the treasures they had found was
to commit them to memory, they decided that no one
would be admitted as a member of the club until he had
captured in his memory twenty-five of the selections from
the Treasure Chest. Any one who could pass this test
would be allowed to join the crew and wear the pilot
wheel pin of the Literary Explorers. Thus the Literary
Explorers had their beginning. Clubs have spread to a
number of other states as far west as California.

Official Lawn Tennis Guide 1935.

Edited 1by Irving C. Wright and Samuel Hardy.
gngerican Sports Publishing Company, New York.
.3 .

The 1935 Lawn Tennis Guide with which is combined
the Spalding Tennis Annual, is a very complete history
of the sport for the past year. All worthwhile tourna-
ments are reported and records are given.

Go and Go- MOku.

$By5 Edward Lasker. Alfred A. Knopf, New York.
2. O.

The oldest game in the world is rapidly spreading in
the United States. In this 1book Mr. Lasker describes the
oriental board games of Go and Go—Moku and their
American versions. He explains the game simply and
completely, and gives the rules, the different moves, the
tactics, the variations, the scoring, and the way to enjoy
it to the fullest.

Firelig ht Entertainments.

By Margaret K. Soifer. Furrow Press, 115 Eastern
Parkway, Brooklyn, New York. $.75.

Complete descriptions and suggestions for a wide va-
riety of camp fire entertainment suitable for both young
and old are contained in this 'book, which gives definite
information on the organization, costumes, stories, ,songs
and stunts for a number of entertainments. Lists of
source material for stories and music are included.

Treatment Programs of Five State Institutions.

By Alida C. Bowler and Ruth S. Bloodgood. Chil-
dren's Bureau. Publication No. 228. U. S. Gov-
ernment Printing Office, Washington, D. C. $.25.

This, the first of the series to lbe published by the
Children’s ’Bureau under the title Institutional Treatment
of Delinquent Boys, reports the findings of a study of
five outstanding state institutions for delinquent boys in
California, Michigan, New Jersey, New York and Ohio
-——all state institutions representative of treatment pro-
grams-being administered in various sections of the coun-
try. The physical education, athletic and recreation pro-
grams in each institution are carefully evaluated along
with other factors. “The ideal institutional program,”
states the report in its chapter on Recapitulation and
Comments, “would probably center in some one person,
preferably a trained recreation worker, responsible for
the deve10pment of a diversified program of recreational
activity.”

Annotated Bibliography on Adult Education.

Compiled by W'illiam Martin Proctor. Obtainable
from Mr. Proctor, 747 Dolorest Street, Stanford
University, California. $.25.

The preparation of this bibliography is an outgrowth
of the compiler’s work during the past five years with
graduate classes in adult education at Stanford Univer-
sity. In the task he has had the assistance of members
of his classes. N0 effort has been made, Mr. Proctor
explains, to prepare a complete and exhaustive biblio—
graphy, but it is believed that a fairly satisfactory sam—
pling of the most important phases of the field has been
achieved. Some 839 titles have been included with a brief
resume in most instances of their contents. The method
of classification adds to the usefulness of this valuable
bibliography.

Financial Trends in Organized Social Work.

By Kate Huntley. Published for the Welfare Coun-

cil of New York City by Columbia University
Press, New York. $3.75.

In this book the author has given us an analysis of
the income and expenditures of different types of social
work in New York City designed to show the direction
in which social work has been moving as revealed in
volume of expendtiures and sources of support during
the prewar, war, depression and boom years, 1910-1929.
One entire chapter is devoted to recreation, and the state-
ment is made that the expansion of this work is reflected
1n an expenditure increase of about 400 per cent during
the twenty years since 1910. Deve10pments during war
years and the sharp upward trends in the volume of

expenditures during the last five years are reported to
account for most of this increase.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GusTAvUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HoWARo S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERwoRTH, Moline, Ill.

CLARENCE M. CLARE, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CDRBE‘IT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISDN, Incust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISDN, West Orange, N. J.
JoHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

RDBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS( Seattle, Wash.

CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. Hrcxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS oELAcv HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANnON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittshurgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y. ‘
MRS. JAMES W. WAoSwonTH, JR., Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New .YOI'k, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WlmANT, Concord, N. H.

MRS. WILLIAn H. Wooom, JR., Tucson, Ariz.

 

