Joseph Lee

N JUNE 19 l O—twenty-live years ago—Joseph Lee accepted election as president of the Playground
| Association of America. For all but four years of the Association's history Joseph Lee has been

its president and its leader.

Play and recreation in 1910 were no new interest to him. Before the Association was organized
Joseph Lee had worked many years in this field. As a boy he had known what play meant in his
own life and the life of his family. He had read and studied Froebel's books. He was interested in pro—

gressive education before there was any such thing. Not only had Joseph Lee paid for apparatus and
equipment and the salaries of the play leaders for the Boston Columbus Avenue Playground in the

early days. For years he had carefully observed the play of children of all ages. With a lively memory
of his own play days he had recorded what he had observed.

At the time Joseph Lee graduated from Harvard every man was expected to go into business or
enter a profession but he did not need to make money and he was not interested in doing so. In
England a man could enter public service with entire self-respect. In America a man could go to live
in the slums. but to devote the major part of one's time to play and recreation and to think of this
not in terms of the poor alone but of every one. was then hard to understand. Courage was required

forty years ago to devote oneself to play.

Joseph Lee was a courageous pioneer with vision to see a great need and with readiness to leave
beaten paths. While Joseph Lee worked in Boston and New England Others were working in other
cities and many persons and many influences were united in the organization that later became the
National Recreation Association. Many of these persons were professional workers. but Joseph Lee
as a layman. a public-spirited citizen. an educator. a thinker. with many many fields open to him. has
n0t only for the twenty-live years of his presidency but before. dedicated himself specially to the rec-
reation movement. Year in and year out. in good seasons and in bad. in war and in peace. without
thought for himself. Joseph Lee gave himself and his influence to the national recreation movement.
No task was too little. or too big. or too demanding. No job. even that of money raising. was too

disagreeable.

Fortunately Joseph Lee was in position to contribute his time. to pay his own expenses as he
made trips in behalf of the movement. and of course with his interest went his own financial sup-
port. But most of all the Association and the movement are indebted to him for his philosophy. his
understanding of fundamental principles. his readiness always to think in terms of quality rather than
quantity. to stand resolutely for what he thought really mattered. His presidency these twenty-live
years has been no casual attendance at occasional meetings. but a vital continuous leadership.

Few could know the extent to which his humor. his keen mind. his knowledge of human
nature. his wise administrative judgments have helped mould the national movement day by day for

a generation. There is a spirit and a tradition which he has had a large part in building up. The move-
ment of course is the result of the work of many thousands of workers in more than a thousand c0m-

munities throughout the county. Its strength has been in its cooperative spirit. What has happened——
has happened. however. under Joseph Lee’s leadership.

Had Joseph Lee served for eight years in ordinary times as president of the United States it is
doubtful whether he would have had the opportunity he has had in his twenty—live years’ service as
leader in the recreation movement to leave the impress of his spirit upon the nation.

The end of the twenty-five year period of consecutive service is a fitting time in behalf of the
thousands who serve with him to record what his leadership has meant. the affection it has inspired.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

JULY 1935

 

185

 

Of all man's works of ad a cafhedral is H19 greafesf.
A vasi and maiesfic free is greafer fhan {hat

HENRY WARD BEECHER.

186

The New Leisure

hundred years ago I find

these words: “For they . . .
assign only six hours to work,
those before noon, upon the
which they go straight to dinner; and after din—
ner, when they have rested two hours, then they
work three hours and upon that they go to
supper.”

That was Sir Thomas More’s Utopia. It
sounded fantastic when it was penned. But the
machine is rapidly bringing about an Utopia
in which there shall be time for men just to be
idle or to devote their extra hours to fulfilling
those creative desires and impulses which
struggle within us.

This problem of leisure has become one of
the baffling ones of our time. The machine
has continually decreased man’s hours of gain—
ful labor. Much of the drudgery of life has
been taken from the shoulders of men—~the
back-breaking family washing, the old carpet
sweeper, the twelve hour day in the steel-mill.
The machine should also liberate the spirits of
men as well as their bodies. It will if we will
only realize that perhaps the next great cycle
in the world’s history may be the providing of
opportunities for all folk to live an abundant
life. David Cushman Coyle says that the an-
swer to technological unemployment is cultural
employment.

This problem of the new leisure presses for
solution whether we will or no. Certainly it
demands that we find satisfying ways of using
it. \Ve must open up new vistas to men, help
give them new desires, and offer them instruc-
tion in satisfying those desires. Not only does
the leisure time on men’s hands demand this,
but the very nature of modern industry makes
it imperative. More and more the worker finds
himself a cog in a machine. He turns a bolt
as the moving automobile belt moves monoto—
nously by him. This regimented work gives
him little opportunity for creative outlets. Con—
sequently, he must find them in his leisure

1' l N A BOOK written about four

..

By PAUL L. BENJAMIN
Executive Secretary

Council of Social Agencies
.Buffalo and Erie County, New York

time. And society must af—
ford him full opportunity for
doing so or dam up latent,
powerful powers and mo-
tives which can find an out—
let largely through unsocial conduct.

This means that instead of curtailing bud—
gets for libraries,‘science museums, art galler—
ies, community centers, organized recreation,
and adult education, we must increase them.
It means that we are destined to see a great
increase in the place and functions of these
institutions.

Just as adults must be served, so youth can—
not wait. It is the policemen’s club or the boys’
club. On one hand you have the corner gang,
crap-shooting in the alley, the petty crime; on
the other hand you have the “Scout Troop,”
the “Y,” the play center.

Clifford R. Shaw, of the Chicago Institute
of Juvenile Research, states that the hundreds
of cases studied clearly show that “the unsup—
ervised play group is the medium through which
a large proportion of delinquents are initiated
and through which delinquency is transmitted
from older to younger generations.” Freder—
ick M. Thrasher, author of The Gang is also of
the opinion that “the unwise use of leisure time
of young men from sixteen years of age to the
early twenties, is responsible for an important
proportion of the serious crime in America."
He declares, “It is better to spend $1500 in a
local crime prevention program based on con-
structive use of leisure than to spend $750,000
to convict one public enemy.”

In Cincinnati the experiment has been tried
of releasing boys on probation from the Ju-
venile Court to the character-building agencies.
Over 90 per cent of the boys so released never
return to the Court.

A study being conducted by Buffalo by the
statistician of the Health Department, Mr. Del—
mer Batcheller, shows a close correlation be-

tween anti-social attitudes and anti-social be—
havior.

187

188 THE NET/V LEISURE

What of the School, the Home, the Church?

What now is the relation of three great insti-
tutions—the school, the home and the Church, to
this problem of the new leisure?

The school, of course, should educate for liv-
ing and for the enrichment of life. Education
should equip students to fulfill their capacities and
desires. It should liberate the spirit instead of
regimenting and dulling it. It should throb with
the beat of life itself. Too often schools have ten
commandments of which these are a part:

I. Thou shalt not permit students to become in-
terested in their work.

2. Thou shalt not question the opinions of the
teacher.

3. Thou shalt learn books—not life.

4. Thou shalt not permit students to confer
among themselves.

5. Thou shalt not make education an exciting

experience.

6. Thou shalt not bring beauty

into ,the classroom.

Now and then you discover
an educational institution which
does violate those restrictions.
For instance, the Arts Guild of
New York City is an adult col—
lege in which the students are
expected to conduct themselves
like “socialized, exploring, cre-
ative adults.”

Its philosophy is expressed in
the words: “Individuals are re—
quired, in actual experience, to
respond with whatever inner re-
sources they possess to the com—
plete, unassorted welter of life;
it behooves them, then, to dis—
cover, by active exploration and
creativeness, both what their in-
ner resources are and how life
may be handled as a whole
rather than as a succession of
isolated fragments.” They have

"I see here, Mopey, how a pro-
fessor has written a book tell-
ing 800 ways to kill time under

the New Deal. That must of
been an awful lot of work.’I

chosen the arts as an educational force for the
following reasons: Through them an individual
may discover his own latent powers in thinking;
a complex and puzzling world may assume unity
and form; the qualities drawn upon in creative
performance may be carried over into other fields
and help condition his life. The arts' helps‘ the
student to win mastery over self.

Here you find self-discovery and self-revela-

tion. In the words of James Stephens:

"I would think until I found
Something I can never find.
Something lying on the ground
In the bottom of my mind.”

Students at the Arts Guild find themselves
growing into more socialized attitudes and dis-

‘cover a new eagerness about life.

The marvelous development of the folk schools
in Denmark hints at what the relation of recrea-
tion and education may really become. Here play,
drama and singing have become an integral part
of the folk education. It has become a singing

 

Published by permission United Feature Syndicate

MOPEY DICK AND THE DUKE

THE NEW LEISURE

land. A meeting of the stock-
holders of a bankrupt farm-
er’s bank was opened with
song.

Coming near home we have
the annual music festival in
'Westchester County, New
York. A chorus of 500 chil-
dren is chosen from the vari-
ous high school glee clubs and
another chorus of 2,500 chil-
dren from the grades. These
take part in the festival. For weeks, the music
classes in the schools throughout the county re—
hearse for the grand event. The weaving of music
into the lives of the children gives them a price—
less heritage.

Education needs to become training for life.
Games. music, drama, play, therefore become an
essential part of the curriculum. '

Modern life has twisted and moulded the in-
stitution of the home into a grotesque shape. As
Professor \N’i’lliam F. Ogburn has so well pointed
out, all the ties which have held the family to—
gether in the past—education, employment, recre-
ation and others—have become seriously weak-
ened. 'When my great-grandfather and his young
bride went by ox—cart in ‘the wilds of Pennsyl-
vania and carved out a homestead, it became

largely a self-sustaining one. They made their '

own home-spun, dipped their own candles, for
recreation had squirrel hunting and sugaring off ;
education was at the mother’s knee; religious wor—
ship was family prayers and reading from the
ponderous Bible with the brass clasps. Now all
that is changed—the movie, the Scout Troop. the
automobile, the golf foursome.

But. says Mr. Ogburn, affection still remains
as a powerful strand to hold families together.
This provides us a cue as to some of the tech-
nique for happy family life. The development of
the affectional techniques resides in doing things
together, in recreational interests and associations.

I have in mind one family which is a gathering
place for friends and kin—folk on a Sunday even-
ing. Here you will find mother at the piano,
father with his fiddle, Mary with her violin, and
Jimmy with his flute. The family concert has be-
come a regular event in that family. \Vithout their
realizing it, they have drawn upon an affectional
technique to bind them together. In our church
we now have mixed bowling, preceded by a sup-
per for husbands and wives.

"With the heavy hand of dire neces-
sity lifted, men and women may be
lured into the marvelous world of
cultural interests which has been a
closed world to so many. . . . . Leisure
should bring a new content into pov-
erty stricken soulsl with new apprecia-
tion of beauty and fineness and often
the development of latent power."—
Gratia A. Countryman in Bulletin

of the American Library Associa-
tion, July, I934.

Hobbies in which all the
f amin can take part are an ex-
cellent device not only for de-
veloping a community of in-
terest but also for having rare
fun together. I know a family
which is collecting fossils.
Winter evenings you will find
them gathering about the din-
ing room table classifying their
finds. On Saturday afternoons
during the rest of the year
they are tramping along streams pursuing their
fascinating quest. There will be no divorce nor
separation in that family.

The family provides a continuous medium for
education. The notion that education is a treat-
ment applied vigorously between the ages of five
and sixteen is a curious one; that somehow, life
begins where education stops. After all, perhaps
life does really begin at forty. At least our modern
adult education movement makes it possible. The
family is a place to nourish hidden skills and
talents —— to grow beautiful roses, to make ex-
quisite sculpture from a cake of soap, to drama-
tize stories. My two boys spent a happy Christ-
mas week writing a play, in constructing puppets
and stage, and in putting on the show. The even-
ing performance before parents and friends-was
a creative experience for them. '

Clarence E. Pickett tells the story of the coal
miner who was retrained to make furniture. He
always came home,from the mines ill-tempered
and unhappy to spend his leisure time in scolding
the wife and in beating the children. He was now
employed in making hand-fabricated chairs. He
happened one day to find a life of Henry Wads-
worth Longfellow and he found in it a descrip—
tion of the bed used by Mr. Longfellow'. Finally
he procured a picture of the bed. He decided to
make a copy of it. By working at night, be com-
pleted it, a beautiful piece of (furniture. The surly
disposition vanished. He became affectionate in
his family relationships. Something had become
released within him.

Only one who has experience knows the joy
which comes from common tasks with children
and mate—of hiking a golden afternoon 11p hill
and down dale, of old—fashioned croquet, of read-
ing the Highwayman of Alfred Noyes aloud in
the evening with its swinging lines: '

(Continued on ,hage 2.22

When You're Making Tin Can Toys

” Save those old tin cans. You
will be surprised to find what
attractive toys they will make

Y USING a little ingenuity many at-
B tractive playthings can be made from
tin cans of different sizes and shapes.
In this article I have undertaken to de-
scribe the making, by simple methods of
construction, a number of toys very at-
tractive to children as playthings that any-
one should be able‘ to duplicate.

The tools needed, with a very few ex-
ceptions, will be found in any home workshop.
The following are necessary:

A can opener which cuts out the top against the
crimped edge, leaving a smooth top to the can in-
stead of the jagged edge left by the ordinary old
type can opener. There are several of these on
the market. One called a “Gem” can be bought
for twenty-five cents.

A pair of duck-bill tin snips

A block of hard wood about 1%” X2”X 12”
which should be planed smooth

A pair of pliers for cutting and bending wire
used in handles

A small hammer (ball pene preferred) and a
mallet

A small file

A punch made from a nail filed square on the
end

An alcohol lamp (one can be bought in the ten
cent stores with a blow pipe attached)

A small quantity of self Huxing solder; rosin
core solder is the most satisfactory, ordinary sol-
der and soldering paste may be used.

It is important that cans to be used shall be
washed at once when opened and thoroughly
dried. Old cans or those that have begun to rust
should not be used. You 'should have a recep-
tacle handy for scrap pieces of tin, as these should
not be left lying around. All jagged or sharp
edges on any pieces to be handled or used should

190

 

By CHARLES M. GRAVES

Acting Executive Secretary
Transient Bureau
Columbus. Georgia

be immediately removed with a file; a small three—
cornered saw file will be found convenient for this
purpose.

A Toy Sauce Pan

A toy sauce pan can be made from a small can
by soldering on a straight.handle and making a
lid from the top cut from a larger can. The
handle should be a little longer than the diameter
of the can and should be tapered and have hem-
med edges—that is, the edges should be folded
back to make a smo‘bth edge and also to stiffen
the handle. “Hemming” the edge is a process
used on all handles and in some other instances
is easily done by holding the piece on the block of
hard wood and bending the edge over this with a
mallet or hammer. When the edge has been bent
at a right angle to the main piece for its entire
length, turn the piece over on the block and bend
this edge down with a mallet or hammer. Both
edges of the handle should of course be hemmed
and a hole should be punched in the small end. To
attach this handle to the pan, bend about one-fourth

WHEN YOU’RE MAKING TIN CAN TOYS 191

inch of the large end of
the handle to a suitable
angle with the handle
and curve this to ht
neatly against the can:
Hold this handle in
place by a wire around
the can, being 'sure the
can and handle are clean where they join.

If you have a soldering iron available and are
accustomed to using it, you will need no further
instructions; but if you do not have a soldering
iron, the simplest method of soldering is to use
self fluxing solder which is also known as acid
core solder or rosin core solder. Cut a piece of
self Huxing solder about one-half inch long and
lay it in the crevice where the handle joins the
can. Apply heat under the handle by means of a
small alcohol lamp. As soon as the solder melts

or flows, remove the

C heat and a neat job of

-...._- soldering should re—

n q sult. This same pro-

piece of soft solder

STEPS l“ maplae‘ and soldering paste
ENDS 0F HGNDLE T0 flux.

KETTLE 6ND BUCKET

HGNDLE- FOR
STEW PRN

cess of soldering can
be used with a small

A Toy Stew Pan
A toy stew pan can
be easily made from a can the same size as the
sauce pan or a trifle larger. Shape two handles of
wire, as shown in detail A, using wire from a
light coat hanger or the handle of a market bas-
ket. File these a little Hat on the side that hts
against the can and make the top of the handle
flare away from the can. Hold these in place by
a small wire or string around the can. Lay a
small piece of solder against one end of the
handle, holding the can so heat can be applied
from the inside. Heat with an alcohol lamp until
solder Hows. 'Repeat this for each end of each
handle. After a little trial it is easily and quickly
done. By using the top cut from a larger size can
and soldering on a handle made of wire or a
small piece of tin, a very accept-
able lid can be made for either of
these pans.
A Toy Stew Kettle ges’r'ons for
To make a toy stew kettle with
a bail, a can about 2% inches

A B
LOOP TO RECENE
HGND‘LE- OF STEW KETTLE-

In RECREATION for July' I933,

Mr. Graves offered some sug-
tin
This month he gives us some
additional articles suitable for
the playground program.

high and the same di-
ameter may be used.
(One which contained
Vienna sausage is a
good size.) Shape two
loops to receive the
handles, as shown in
detail B. These can be
made from gem clips or wire or they can be cut
from a piece of tin as the one shown in the illus-
tration. Fit these loops to opposite sides of can
so they extend slightly above the top. Secure them
in place temporarily by a wire around the loops
and the can. Now solder these to the can by the
method previously described, using a small piece
of self Huxing solder on each joint and applying
the heat on the inside of the can by means of a
small alcohol lamp.

To make the handle‘ for the size can mentioned,
cut a piece of wire 5%
or 6 inches long from D
a market basket han-
dle or other wire about
that diameter. To
make the loops bend
the ends first to a
right angle and slip
the handle in place be-
fore closing the loop
as shown in detail C.
To make a lid for the
stew kettle secure the top from the next size
larger can. This may need trimming off from the
outside to make it fit between the handle loops.

SPQUT FOQ
COFFEE POT

(BEND on 001110 um)

A Toy Coffee Pot

To make a toy coffee pot select a tall can of the
desired size. The handle is made by the same
method as the handle for the sauce pan except
that it is shaped like the handle of a cup and sol-
dered over the seam of the can both at the top and
bottom of the handle.

The spout is approximately an equilateral trian-
gle. (See sketch of spout marked D). Bend over
the finger on the line from the middle of one side
to the opposite apex. The edges of this should be
filed to ht snugly against the side
of the can in the proper posi-
tion. Now punch or drill a num-
ber of holes so as to come under
the spout; then bind the spout
securely in place with a hne wire.

(Continued on page 223)

can craft.

Something About Marionettes

By
ELIZABETH HAINES

MARIONETTE belongs to the
A great family of puppets,

which is a general term ap-
plied to any specially constructed
articulated figure, and refers both
to marionettes and hand puppets.
The main difference between man'-
onetles and hand puppets is this:
Marionettes are elaborately con-
structed figures worked by strings
fastened to a wooden control, and
manipulated from above the stage
level; hand puppets are simply con-
structed figures, put on the hands
like a mitten, and manipulated from
below the stage level. Punch and Judy, brought
to us from England, belongs to this latter class,
as do the hand puppets of France, called “guig-
nols.” In the parks of Paris the French version

of Punch and Judy is given, to the delight of.
children and their nurses. g,-

Where Did They Come From?

No one person (at least in modern times) ever
“invented” marionettes, as some people believe.
Marionettes and puppets are so old that even to-
day their origin has not been definitely established.
Figures of marionettes have been found in Greek,
Roman and Egyptian tombs, and references to
them have been made in the writings of Aristotle,
Plato and Horace. The ancient Greek name for
marionettes means literally, “puppets suspended
from strings or threads.” In India, the name for-
merly given only to puppet showmen meaning
“string-puller,” has today come to be a term ap-
plied to any theatrical producer, a further proof
that puppet plays must be more ancient than the
theatre of human actors.

Marionettes were known in China, according to
written record, as early as 630 A. D., where it is

192

 

and ‘
Their History

thought they were brought from
'l'urkestan. Owing to the political
and military expansion of the Non-
gols, Chinese traders carried the
marionettes over Asia to Africa and
'Europe where they were developed
into religious automata used in
churches and church processions.

Their Popularity

The popularity of marionettes and
hand puppets, like a great many
other things, seems to go in cycles,
and in the 17th Century hand pup—
pets rose rapidly in favor and at—
tained their greatest height in the early part of
the 18th. Then Punch flourished in England. His
broad burlesques appealed to the low state of the
English folk humor of the period, and it was then,
too, that his physical. appearance of hooked nose,
hump front and back, cap and ruff became stand-
ardized. In 1713 a permanent theatre was estab—
lished for him in Covent Garden, but it was not
until the end of the Century that he married Judy.
who from that time on remained a permanent
member of the troupe. Punch was so popular he
had to appear in_every performance, even Biblical
dramas, to satisfy public demand, and as an actor
he was seriously compared to the greatest living
actors of the day—Edmund and Keene. In fact,
not only in England but in nearly all Asiatic and
European countries, Punch, in one form or an-
other, is the national puppet hero, and in each
country his characteristics—greedy braggart—are
the same. Throughout its history we find the
hand puppet theatre the voice of the common peo-
ple, and Punch their greatest spokesman. Easy to
transport, the hand puppet theatre quickly drew a
crowd when set up 'on the street corner and was
the newspaper of the times, for the puppets not

SOMETHING ABOUT MARIONETTES AND THEIR HISTORY 193

only reflected the life and customs of the period,
but also influenced and shaped public opinion.
Punch was in turn commentator as well as agi-

tator on important religious and political questions
of the day.

Although the mechanics of manipulating hand
puppets seem to encourage slap-stick methods of
eXpression, that is not true of all hand puppets.
The French writer, George Sand, established a

complete puppet theatre in her home. Her son .

carved the heads, and she costumed the figures.
Over a period of 25 years they presented a series
of parodies and satires on popular authors of the
period. The puppets have been preserved and are
occasionally placed on exhibition at Nohant,
France.

\Vriters of other periods knew and like the pup-
pets. Shakespeare mentioned them repeatedly,
and on one occasion makes Hamlet wish to be
the speaker on a marionette stage. Ben Johnson,
Addison and Steele, Swift and Pepys refer to
puppets and shows they saw. Maurice Matcrlinck
wrote some beautiful marionette plays. Cyrano
de Bergerac stabbed and killed a famous ape,
“Fagotin” who appeared in a puppet show, be-
cause he thought the ape was making fun of his
nose! Samuel Johnson thought the marionettes
played much better than living actors, and coming
to our modern writers, George Bernard Shaw de-
clares himself a champion of the puppets.

Musical geniuses, too, have written for the
miniature actors. Joseph Haydn had his own
marionette theatre,
and wrote a number
of operettas for the
puppets, as well as
his familiar “Toy
Symphony.” l

The greatest poem
in the German lan-
guage, which has
since become a well-
loved opera, was in-
spired by mario-
nettes. As children,

Si and his wife discuss
the dairying situation
in "Down on the Farm.‘I
created for New York
State Milk Campaign.

Courtesy Frank and Elizabeth Haine:

Goethe and his sister were given a marionette
theatre for Christmas by their grandfather, and
having written for and loved the puppets from
childhood, Goethe drew his inspiration for “Faust”
from seeing a marionette performance of an old
German legend on which the plot was based.

The 18th Century might well be called the
“Golden Age” of marionettes, for it was then that
they reached their greatest popularity and played
a considerable part in the public life of all civilized
countries. At this time marionette showmen be-
came so numerous as a class that they were f orm-
ed into a guild, with their own' special regulations
and customs. One peculiar rule was that none of
the play texts should be written, but everything,
even the prompter’s stage directions, had to be
memorized. This custom, in part, has survived
today, and most professional marionette com-
panies memorize the lines of a play, and do not,
as many people suppose, read the lines while
working the puppets, which would be a task re-
quiring the physical agility of an octopus and the
mental agility of a Dorothy Parker. Some com-
panies do have one group to manipulate the pup-.
pets, while another group reads the lines, but it is
felt that this method is not as satisfactory as
when the lines are memorized by the manipulator.

Strangely enough, at this time the church, espe-
cially in England and France, was very severe in
its war against the legitimate theatre, but the pup—
pets seem to have been in some way overlooked,

(Continued on fagc 224)

 

The Boy Scout

"Get: a hobby, acquire
skill in its exercise,

and ride it: hard.”

ROBABLY there are few normal, wide-awake

boys who are not hobbyists after their own

fashion. A boy will collect anything and
everything from snakes to postage stamps, dab-
ble in anything or everything from whittling to
soap sculpture, spend endless time and effort on
whatever the craze of the moment is, whether it
is making devious jig-saw puzzles, daubing with
paint or fabricating gliders. So long as the appeal
holds he will ride any hobby horse tirelessly and
enthusiastically until it is SUpplanted by a new
interest. '

Scouting, recognizing this universal boy pro-
clivity, utilizes it and directs it to constructive
ends, offers a wide range of possible hobbies from
which individual Scouts or group of Scouts may
choose the project which fits their tastes capacity
and natural aptitudes. Such hobbies are suggested
or encouraged as will have more than a transient
value and offer ever increasing depth and breadth
of interest. will lead on and on, instead of coming
to a dead end, and will become a permanent en-
richment of the boy’s life, instead of a passing
fancy.

As everybody knows a new hobby may get you
under its spell at any hour or day. There is no
closed season for hobbies. But for the Boy Scout
perhaps the happiest hunting grOUnd in this field
is his summer camp. In camp hobbies are both
literally and figuratively in the air and under foot.

Bugs or butterflies may catch and hold the em-
bryo naturalist-collector’s interest. A talk on leaf
shape and veining may set more than one young-
ster to experimenting with leaf moulds in plaster
or blue prints, both of which lead to engrossing

194

 

new kinds of craft, aside from the heightened
powers of observation of nature’s laboratory and
design. A wild flower hike may turn attention
happily and instructiver toward pressed flower
collections and on to botany, including a new zeal
for conservation of natural beauty. The romance
of star study by flashlight may go not only to the
production of constellation maps, but farther still,
to the science and fascination of astronomy itself.
Magnifying glasses and telescopes have their en—
during magic for many a boy who has hitherto
been more interested in sling shots and jack—
knives.

A Patrol on a hike with a leader who “knows
his stuff” may find, if not actually “sermons” in
stones, a tremendous new interest in the history
of this old world which may take the boys to
libraries when vacation is over to find out more
of what lies behind an apparently insignificant
boulder, start the habit of mineral or rock
collection.

Hobbies are quite frequently unexpectedly born
on hikes. A bird hike may inspire more than one
boy to the closer observation of feathered friends
and that may start him on record keeping or more
impressive still, to “stalking,” that most intriguing
and challenging form of hunting which is done
"with camera instead of gun, which leads to the
dual hobby of photography, plus nature study.
Often, too, it leads still farther to the advantage
of both birds and boys. Interest in bird feeding
station's conducted as a winter Good Turn is de—
veloped, and birdhouse building becomes a Patrol
project or a hobby for an individual Scout who
fancies carpentry with a purpose.

THE BOY SCOUT AND HIS HOBBIES 195

The winter camp or hike also offers priceless
opportunity for the wild life hobbyist. It is a
thrilling experience to come Upon a clear, reveal-
ing imprint of shy creatures who have passed by
in the night, going about their secret business
while Boy Scouts slept snug and warm rolled in
blankets. Observation and deduction are involved
in this kind of trailing, and it is an exciting Sher-
lock Holmes sort of adventure to make a careful,
precise plaster cast of the footprints of a fox or
partridge, to be later moulded in plasteline for a
permanent record placed in the Troop museum or
used for useful _and decorative purposes on book
ends or paper weights. '

Every boy loves to whittle and Scouts are no
exception. \Vood work of all sorts lends itself
easily to hobby impetus. Boy Scouts carve every-
thing from peach stone Patrol emblems to elabo-
rate totem poles in which the Troop history and
tradition may find permanent, signiiicant form or
deep delving into Indian lore in pursuit of suitable
smybols may give rise to another study and hobby,
whet an interest which the making of Indian war
bonnets, designing bead work or fashioning mo-
cassins and axe pouches may have already set in
progress.

Whether it is a bird house or a “katchina,” an
art stone vase or a leather first aid kit, a raffia
fish basket or a ship model which holds the young
hobbyist’s enthusiasm at the minute, he is en-
couraged to put into it his best efforts. The Scout
is impressed with the fact that whatever is worth
doing at all is worth doing well and that Scout
workmanship should be at all times thorough,
careful, sincere, “exact,” done upon honor, Scout
fashion, nothing slipshod or half-hearted about it,
since the product is to be a permanent thing of use
or beauty, or probably both. He is also encouraged
to make his hobby project whatever it may hap-
pen to be, an expression of his own taste, in-
ventiveness and personality.
A hobby is a highly individ-
ual thing and even the ar-
rangement of postage stamps
in an album or the moulding
of a cast may be an indica-

tial abilities and bents.

No one who is a genuine
devotee of any hobby will be
content to be merely a dab-
bler in the subject. He wants
to know what is behind it all,

"In the good life craftsmanship is the
necessary complement of the fine arts.
In the fine arts one learns to give form
and limit to the world of dreams. In the
practical arts. one learns to get rid of
tion of character and poten- dreams in dealing with the physical stuff
of life. One learns that a fine idea is
nothing until with slow patience and ex-
periment one has somehow bent the in-
nate cussedness of metal' and fabric'
and wood, and. paper and paint to its
realization."—MarjorieBarstowGreen- Ogys and it was on the
bie in The Arts of Leisure.

the theory as well as the practice of the art or
craft involved, the story of what experts have
done in the field of the interest which he is pursu-
ing as a halting but eager amateur. In this con-
nection the Boy Scouts of America has developed
its “Merit Badge Library,” a series of pamphlets
dealing interestingly and accurately with each of
the more than a hundred subjects offered as
Scout electives, the Merit Badges for which they
may qualify after hard work, intensive study and
practice and rigorous tests by experts.

The Merit Badge Program gives Scouts a wide
choice of worthwhile hobbies from which each
may make his selection. In his Merit Badge work
a boy not only delves rather deep into a number of
arts, crafts, sports, sciences and interesting activ-
ity projects to his advantage. He also gets an op—
portunity' to discover himself, find out what he
can do beét and is most interested in doing, not as
a casual experiment but as a permanent interest
and objective of study and practice.

The Merit: Badge covers an enormous held, in-
cluding as it does such diverse subjects as avia-
tion and bee keeping, basketry, pottery, stamp col-
lecting, archery, weather, printing, dramatics,
pioneering, chemistry, forestry, wood carving,
gardening, radio and so on. Here is plenty for
any hobbyist, something to suit all tastes. A Scout
training for a Merit Badge test may mean finding
a life long interest, an.avocation which will be
valuable recreation for off hours as long as he
lives. He may also, whether he knows it or not,
be finding his life work or the open sesame to a
great and unexpected adventure and opportunity.

It was as an all round trained Scout that Ad-
miral Byrd selected young Paul Siple, Sea Scout
and Eagle, among many candidates for his earlier
polar expedition, and Paul and four other Eagle
Scouts are with the Admiral now in Little
America. Another Eagle Scout, Hugh S. Davis,

had the luck to be chosen to
accompany the Martin John-
sons recently to Africa, on a
“Big Game Trek.” Davis,
who became a Scout the min-
ute he was within the twelve
' year old minimum age limit,
developed in the course of
his years of Scout training
two contrasting major hob-
bies, photography and 2001--

(Contt’nued on page 226)

Playing lndian With a Purpose

VERYONE is interested in the
Indians who were the fore-
runners of modern civiliza-

tion and roamed the forest and glen with silent
tread and watchful eye long before the white man
set foot on what is now called America. They are
the fascinating enigmas from the dim and remote
past. The pitiful remnant of red men herded into
the reservations is no more representative of the
original Americans than are the present-day no-
madic peoples who occupy Egypt like the highly
intelligent Pharaohs of centuries before. It is in-
deed ironic that so much more is known about the
Egyptians, Babylonians, Sumerians and other
ancient peoples than has been learned about the
customs of our real Americans.

The early white settlers aroused bitter hostility
0n the part of the Indians by their unfair tactics,
land grabbing, dishonest trading and other prac-
tices. What remained of the traditions of the In-
dian in the form of mounds, village cites and
relics was promptly plundered and despoiled.
Many boxes of priceless relics were stored in
dusty attics with little or no hope of linking them
to any historical significance. It is no wonder
that under this treatment the Indians who sur-
vived remained mute, stoic, and reluctant to im-
part- their lore to the white man. Indianology has
died out with the decline of generations since the
landing of Columbus.

New Interest Evidenced

Now at last, at the eleventh hour, the nation
and states are determined to learn everything pos-
sible before it is too late. In Pennsylvania, for
example, an organization has been launched for
the purpose of arousing people to action in the
study of Indian lore and in preserving from de-
Spoilers the last vestige of mounds, sites and
burial places. Some systematic i
work is going on in North,
South and Central America by
Foundations which are at last
bringing to life the hidden
secrets of antiquity.

What can a local community
do? In answering this question

196

By JOHN H. KREHER
Albanyl New York

The material in this article has

been taken from a book being pre-
pared by Mr. Kreher. It is the
author's hope that enough has been
presented to arouse many workers
with youth not only to play Indian
but to play it with a purpose!

we refer to Aliquippa, Pennsyl-
vania, where interest, research
and action have been so ably ex-
emplified by the children of this Ohio River steel
town named after an Indian queen and located in
a richly historic area. Here the schools cooperated
splendidly. The children became intensely inter-
ested, with the grades studying various phases of
Indian lore and adopting certain branches of
crafts. Thus weaving, pottery, bead work. and
the construction of Indian dwellings have been
pursued with interest and satisfaction. The older
boys laid .the foundation for an historic museum
in the fine local library building where glass show
cases held the exhibits and displays all attractively
labeled and offering explanations gleaned from
information obtained from authoritative sources.
A museum of this type will undoubtedly arouse
the interest of older people and may result in
stored, forgotten relics coming to light for study

and display.

There Must Be a Purpose

“Playing Indian” too often consists of care-
lessly thrown-together programs lacking purpose,
plan or objective. Many times they are planned so
hurriedly as to border on the ludicrous, with chil-
dren whooping, yelling, hopping around in a cir-
cle and getting nowhere. °

In contrast let us set a purpose-——an objective
based upon study, educational values and genuine
enthusiasm; let us have everything done in as
nearly an authentic way as possible with well-made
craft projects to supplement the rituals, ceremon-
ials, dances and plays.

The Procedure. It is a fallacy to suppose that
only real Indians can teach Indian lore. Anyone
with imagination, the love and thrill of adventure,
and romance, may find a place for himself in the
Indian lore program. The leader
must necessarily read up on his
subject, trying to look at the
world through the-eyes of the
Indian and seeking to inspire
his group with his own spirit of
enthusiasm and delight in the
subject. He should visit mu-

PLAYING INDIAN W'ITH A PURPOSE .197

seums wherever possible and
learn all he can, making the
information available to the
group, modifying it to meet
their ability, considering such
problems as the availability
of materials, and at the same
time arranging his program
to cover a considerable per-
iod, always keeping at least
one more trick “up his
sleeve.”

This is not as difficult as
it may seem. \Vhile there are
not many books available,
there are nevertheless enough
with which to proceed for a
long time. \Vith the increasing fascination of the
hobby, the leader’s imagination and initiative will
do the rest, as time goes on, in supplying plenty of
material and motives for group activities.

Adapting the Program

It is very important that the program shall not
be too difficult or too far over the heads of the
group. Fortunately Indian lore can be modified
to suit the age group, from simple activities and
crafts to the more intensive work for older boys
and girls, up to the more skilled activities of the
late adolescents and somctimes beyond that.

A good slogan in Indian lore is Smeify, C [ar-
ify, rlIodify. There is no harm in such modifica-
tions as one cares to make for the simple reason
that initiative must supply what antiquity has
failed to provide or what might be impossible to
reproduce because of vagueness, uncertainty of in-
terpretation and similar reasons. There is no
harm in producing a mask by some modern and
simpler method than that of the Indian which in-
volved carving it on a living tree trunk and later
felling it. After all it is the spirit with which a
project is pursued that counts most.

Through study we learn of the many beautiful
customs which were practiced by these primitive
people and of their ideals—their courage pa—
tience, determination, endurance, skill, reverence
for elders, tribal fidelity, and religion. Our own
objectives cannot fail to be enhanced by the per—
petuation of the Indian’s best traditions.

\Ve moderns so surrounded by every comfort
and convenience that we are likely to accept them
as a matter of course can find further inspiration
from a study of this vanished race; how they

A FEW HINTS TO THE LEADER

Be well prepared.
Read up on the subject.

Set an objective. Don't hurry. Keep
the children constantly striving to at-
tain a higher degree of excellence.

Fit the program to the group.

Buy little, make much. Whatever is
done should be well done, unhurried and
an object of pride.

Inject into your work the idealism, rev-
erence and moral values of the Indian.

Keep the group posted on research.
Arrange visits to museums and historic
sites. Learn all you can about lndians.

Arrange for an Indian camp during
the summer for a week or more.

adapted themselves to the
terrific elements, hunted ani—
omals for food and clothing,
_ raised their crops, wove cloth-
ing, fashioned tools and
weapons, and made fire with—
out matches. Their skill, pa—
tience and ability to carry on
under every adverse circum—
stance are the marvel of the
ages. Any one of us living
in the present day would find
himself in a sorry plight in-'
deed if he were suddenly cast
into a setting such as the In—
dian knew and made to shift
for himself. The more we
study, therefore, the Indian’s way the more fas—
cinated we become.

Be enthusiastic.

Playground and Camp Objectives

The introduction of the Indian lore into the
playground and camp program will be worth all
the time and energy expended, and the entire
scheme of recreation will benefit from it. In the
closing exercises of the playgrounds there might
well be a colorful pageant of Indian lore prepared
for during the slimmer.

The writer has trained groups during the year
with several weeks in a Slimmer camp as an ob—
jective. Here the children set up an Indian vil—
lage with teepees and other paraphernalia made
during the cool months preceding the opening of
camp. Teepees up and council ring ready, they
carried on not as they do in steam heated camps
but in the ways of the W'innebago or Sioux In—

_ dian. And what thrills and satisfactions were in—

volved !

Getting to Work

Some leaders spend a great deal of time on
ground work with a program of story-telling,
simple crafts, trips and hikes. Others have an
orderly, methodical plan of progression with de-
grees, coups for achievement and awards at coun-
cil fires. Much help may be obtained by studying
the program of the Camp Fire Girls, \Voodcraft
League, Boy Rangers and other youth programs
that feature some Indian lore.

Many leaders use classifications such as pale-
face, papoose, hunter, brave, warrior, sachem,
grand sachem, minisino, etc. Other leaders have
the children qualify as medicine men, chiefs, tom—

198 PLAYING INDIAN WITH A PURPOSE

ton1 beaters, wampum keepers, fire tenders, and
runners. Gradually the leader works out some
sort of a set program, but the main idea is to get
started and to have the group become “Indian-
minded.”

Projects

The list of projects is a long one, and it is pos—
sible here to suggest only a few.

History—maps showing location of tribes,
drawings; trips to historic places, mounds, coun-
cil places, etc.; study of local history, legends;
Indian games, lacrosse, shinny, I-ou-tin, etc. ;
system of degrees, awards; dance steps, music;
ceremonials, festivals, rituals; plays, pantomimes ;
council ring, totems ; Indian village; tracking,
trailing; sign and symbol language; pictographs;
lire making, cookery; study of- herbs, etc.; nature
lore, folk lore, traditional tribal stories; trailing;
all night lone fire vigil ; smoke signals.

Variety of Craft Projects

Among handcraft articles appr0priate to the
program are the following:

Shields Teepees, shelters 'Beads
Rattles Model dwellings Claws

Head ornaments \Vigs Necklaces
Arm ornaments Model canoes Spears
Feather work Paddles Snow snakes
Coup stick Prayer sticks Pottery
Masks Bows Calumets
Clothing Arrows Dancing bells
Belts Quiver Council ring
Moccasins Totenis Whittling
Beaded work Tom-tom Basketry
Medicine bags War clulbs

Utility ’bags Toniahawks

There is an almost end—

A few of the many Indian crafts which may

less variety of projects to be made in the realm
of Indian craftsmanship. Much salvaged material
is to _be had for the finding or asking, such as
material found in nature—shells, vines, bark,
grasses, flint, stones for clubs and natural paint.
In fact, the Indian had to Find everything; but
cheese boxes or jelly tubs make good tom-tom
shells in lieu of hollow basswood trees; evaporat-
ed milk or baking powder cans are splendid for
rattles, as are barrel hoops for shields. Feathers
may be procured from farmers or butchers. The
five and ten cent stores have many trinkets that
are wonderful additions to the craft projects—-
beads, small mirrors, narrow ribbon for head-
dress. Look about you and you cannot fail to dis—
cover something that can be salvaged for use in
Indian crafts.

Making Buckskin. Real smoke-tanned buckskin
is scarce and very expensive but substitutes are
available. Here is the method of imitating real
buck which the author has found most successful :
Secure ten yards of outing Flannel at 10 cents a
yard in the.five and ten cent store. Mix a pound
of wallpaper paste in a tub full of water and add
a little dry yellow ochre paint pigment, which is
very cheap, to the solution. Thoroughly immerse
the flannel. Hang it up saturated and allow it to
dry, carefully scraping off excess paste that may
clot here and there. If the paste is thoroughly
dissolved in the water, you should have no dif-
Fuculty. This material is useful for covering

shields, making head bands
and for use in many ways.

(Continued on 31096 227)

be made on playgrounds and at summer camps

Cu‘r'
ran-rem!“-
Foa gautmu

a.“ unorg-

sscttonoc
OU)Tequme
POLE Is GOOD
MnTERtAL.

l FIRST-13¢“
A 0:50 OF

Hznvy
Pas-neon:

wu-rn THONCI" on. "
CORD

x 5/2/8/628

Home! In?“

Caves.
 A701- Ana

Barron-1
wrru

leuuna.

f: —--" IN’NIII.
M ..-I"
I
\ ~01: (vial
TN NESSEJ
of

Pnsrlb

 

80!!!!qu

t1 annuals“ 

(a! POS"“
Pun A0097

 

SHALL Peanuts

uBoys and. Girls Together"

By ELIZABETH KEMPER ADAMS

all over the country, boys and girls are
playing together. Yet there is still an ap-
palling dearth of satisfying and adequate recrea-
tion for the older group of young people from
sixteen or eighteen to twenty-four years of age.
The depression has borne with particular hard-
ship upon this group. Most of them are out of
school or college and large numbers of them are
unemployed———in fact, many have never been em-
ployed. \Vith so many experienced workmen who
are heads of families eager for jobs, it is no won-
der that the single and inexperienced are passed

over.

N 01‘ UNLY on the sidewalks of New York but

Recreation for Older Boys and Girls

Most of the organized recreation for boys and
girls is designed for younger groups. ioy Scouts,
Girl Scouts, Campfire Girls, the programs of the
Young Men’s and Young \Vomen's Christian As-
sociations (although these deal also with the ages
in question), youth clubs of various kinds, and
the,schools all cater to boys and girls from ten or
twelve to sixteen. And their task is mush simpler,
since these youngsters just emerging from child-
hood are at the stage when they naturally form
gangs and clubs of their own sex and thirst for
adventure and a chance to use their hands and
brains in projects of their own devising.

Recreation for the older
group is a much more dif-

in his Boy and Girl Tramps of America.

The Civilian Conservation Corps camps per-
haps point the way to a joint program of work,
education, and recreation for these older yOUng
people. Government grants to college students
and to junior colleges are designed for their bene-
fit. But their plight is arousing widespread pub-
lic concern and current magazines are full of
articles dealing with them and their difficulties.
The San Diego Exposition is dedicated to Youth
and its outlook. Just now the Government is con-

sidering a large-scale program for them to be paid

for from the new work relief ftinds.

Proposed Government Action

In reSponse to a Congressional resolution of-
fered by Senator \Valsh of Massachusetts asking
what is being done to aid young people of these
years to secure employment, the Secretary of
Labor issued a letter in April, 1935, supplying
available information and outlining a work-edu-
cation-recreation program calling for an expendi-
ture of $96,000,000 and to be administered by a
new Junior \Vork and Emergency Education Di-
vision in the \Vork Relief Authority, with a co—
ordinating advisory agency representing the Chil—
dren’s Bureau and the Employment Service of
the Department of Labor, the Office of Education
of the Department of the Interior, and other rele-
vant agencies, public and
private.

hcult thing to organize and
handle. These young people
out of school look upon them-
selves as grown up; they
often are grown up. They re-
sent interference and super—
vision and prefer to choose
their own amusements, too
often socially and morally
destructive. Many of them
are casuals of the land, wan—
dering about as transients, as
Thomas Minehan has shown

"The Federal Department of Labor esti-
mates that about 3,000,000 young peo-
ple between the ages of I8 and 25 are
out of schoolI unmarriedI and unem-
ployed. Sample studies in various states
and cities indicate that the rate of un-
employment in this group is markedly
higher than in the population as a whole.
In Massachusetts in I934, 35 percent of
those between I8 and 25 were unem-
ployed against 25 percent of all ages; in
PennsylvaniaI 42 percent against 28 per-
cent; in SpringfieldI Ohio, 39 percent
against 22 percent. In Milwaukee. 75
percent of the high school graduates of
I933 were unemployed six months later."

This ambitious plan calls
for state and local adminis-
tration and federal organiza-

' tion and supervision. It pro-

vides an allotment of $15 a
month for six months to
young people for employ-
ment in local projects involv-
ing work, training, and fruit-
ful use of leisure time. It
suggests the expansion of the

Junior Employment Service ‘
in cooperation with school

199

200 “BOYS AND GIRLS TOGETHER"

and community r
placement offices.
an extension of the
Federal Committee
on' Apprentice
Training, a further
deve10pment of C.
C.C. camps, with in-
creased provision
for education and
guidance and closer
relations with com—
munity agencies,
and the setting up
of one or two ex—
perimental c am p s
on the model of the
Fort Eustis Camp
of the Transient Service. It.
favors the continuation of
aid to college students and
junior colleges and educa-
tional assistance to the extent of $2.00 a week to
boys and girls of sixteen and seventeen.

The Federal Office of Education also issued on
April 26, 1935, a similar plan for a nation—wide
community youth program, whereby public
schools would serve as local adjustment and guid-
ance centers and local projects be worked out pro—
viding young men and young women with at least
42 hours a week of work, education, and recrea—
tion, with a maximum grant of $20 a month as
wage or scholarship. This plan lists a wide range
of possible jobs for young people as helpers or
internes in public or quasi—public agencies, ap—
prentices on farms, etc., and provides for a Fed-
eral Advisory Council for Youth. with represen—
tatives of the Government agencies concerned, the
public, and young people themselves.

Courtesy Girl Scouts, Incorporated

A Challenge to Organizations for Youth

\Vhether these large programs will be author-
ized and launched, and just how the two plans will
be reconciled remain to be seen. iut they show
the scope and seriousness of the problem of older
youth today and the necessity of concerted and
national planning. To public and private agencies
dealing with recreation and the maintenance of
morale among young people they present a chal-
lenge to clearer and more far—flung thought and
action. Above all, they bring home the fact that
too discouraged or reckless young people, who feel
beaten by life before they have had a chance to

 

The problem of recreation for younger
boys or girls is' not a difficult one

_. live, recreation
must in c l u d e far
more than games,
hikes, and parties;
must, in fact, be an
integrated scheme
for putting them on
their feet and giv-
ing them some sense
of a fairly stable
and meaningful ex—
istence.

Mean while, there
is much to learn
from recent studies
of recreation, such
as the “Leisure of
5,000 People," made
by the National Recreation
Association in 1933, and
Your}: Today, made by nine
national youth organiza-
tions in 1934, and from the experiences of schools
and organizations for young people, both in this
country and abroad.

All the programs for younger boys and girls
have been forced to consider those who have gone
out from their membership or who have lingered
along after they became sixteen, seventeen, even
eighteen or older. Such young people often cling
to. a juvenile program from a sheer sense of in-
adequacy for the plunge into the grown up world
and a hesitation in entering upon social relations
with the other sex. The organizations which
vaunt the hold they keep upon their older mem*
bers need to ask themselves seriously whether
they are not abetting a permanent prolongation
of adolescence.

What Is Being Done?

Most organizations, however, are facing the
problem of the older boy and girl and striving to
meet it. In England, where folk dancing is almost
a national institution and where the Boy Scouts
and the Girl Guides are under a single head, al—
though separate in administration, folk dancing
among the two groups is a popular and growing
practice. \Veek—end parties for this purpose have
been successfully carried out. In this country, the
Girl Scouts, with whom the writer is especially
familiar, have been encouraging boy-and-girl ac—
tivities among their older members, as well as

"BOYS AND GIRLS TOGETHER” 201

many undertakings for parents and other older
people and for the community as a whole.

A recent publication of the Girl Scouts (April,
1935) deals with the Interests and Activities of
Older Girl Scouts. Replies from a questionnaire
sent to 349 older girls in the organization show
that although nearly all of them liked informal
parties and “dates” with boys, only sixty-one said
that their troop activities included parties and
other forms of recreation in which 'boys partici-
pated. Reports from Girl Scout Local Councils
(sponsoring groups of adults) make a somewhat
better showing. Of 128 Councils. 71 repOrted that
they had boy and girl activities. Of 75 Local
Councils in small communities, :27 reported such
activities.

Instances are cited: Orlando, Florida, has a
folk dance club of Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts,
which meets twice a month in the American
Legion Hall and is very popular. In Milwaukee.
the Boy Scouts and the Girl Scouts had a party
and exchanged gifts. In Los Angeles. Boy Scouts
and Girl Scouts served as ushers at the Twelfth
Annual Extemporaneous Oratory Contest spon-
sored by the Er'enittg Herald and Express. In
Elizabeth. New Jersey, Girl Scouts helped Boy
Scouts to recondition toys
for Christmas, repainting
and dressing dolls. The

Providing leisure time activities for older

Elizabeth Garden Club is sponsoring a contest in
tent caterpillar extermination among Boy Scouts
and Girl Scouts. In Evanston, Illinois, Girl
Scouts have been asked to share in a Boy Scout
project of planting berry-bearing shrubs in the
parks and along roadsides. These Scouts lend the
girls their camp for a month every summer. In
Canton, Illinois, where a husband is scoutmaster
and his wife the Girl Scout troop leader, joint
skating parties have been much enjoyed. Girl
Scouts often usher at Boy Scout entertainments
and vice versa. In this country, the two organi-
zations are entirely independent, but there is con-
siderable local friendliness.

At the annual Eastern States Exposition in
Springiield, Massachusetts, boys and girls of
various organizations—Scouts, 4-H Clubs, Junior
Achievement Clubs—put on demonstrations of
carding, spinning, and weaving wool, hammering

' silver, dipping bayberry candles, and carrying on

other pioneer processes. They also act as guides
and furnish music.

Modern high schools are doing much to en—
courage friendly intercourse among boys. and
girls and to provide wholesome interests for lei—
sure time that will prove a lifelong resource.
Chief among these are
school dramatics, choruses,
and orchestras.

boys and girls together is a harder problem

C an rtesy W'estchester H70 rkshop

 

202

Both schools and youth organizations have had
a large part in promoting an interest in outdoor
life, nature, hiking and camping. In many places,
boys and girls have shared in the construction
and maintenance of a hiking shelter and carry on
together many delightful outings and excursions.
Progressive coeducational camps for younger
boys and girls also lay a foundation for outdoor
skills and pleaSLIres and wholesome cooperation
that will last into adolescence and maturity.

The widespread interest in winter sports is also
bringing older young people together for week-
end and holiday skiing,
toboganning, and skat-
ing. Here, the new de-
velopment of youth
hostels —— long familiar
in Europe—is playing a
leading part. The
American Youth Hos-
tel Association, with
headquarters in East
Northfield, Massachu-
setts, is establishing an
experimental chain of
hostels located at inter-
vals throughout New
Hampshire and Ver-
mont, with others in
Massachusetts and Con-
necticut. Mount Holy-

oke College is opening
the Mary E. VVoolley

Youth Hostel. At the

pioneer hostel in East
Northfield, opened on
December 27, 1934,
1,100 boys and girls.
high school and college students, have stayed from

one to three nights. Much interest has been re-
ported in this experiment designed to help meet
the desire of youth for new sights and new ex-
periences. Educators, youth leaders and others
are watching the development of this “facility for
travel," as those sponsoring the movement term it.

Expenses are being kept at a minimum at these
informal hostels. \Vhile rules are not burdensome
certain requirements are, of course, made. Some
of them, as stated. are that nobody may stay over
three nights, and travelers must bring their own

sleeping equipment and cook their own food, all
of the simplest. Hostels must be chartered and

\

 

Courtesy Ga'rt’ Scouts, Incorporated

“BOYS AND GIRLS TOGETHER"

l.

travelers must provide themselves with a hostel
pass at a cost of twenty-five cents a night.

Interest in sailing a boat is something that also
draws boys and girls together. The Girl Scouts
have recently worked out a Mariner Program for
older girls who live near the sea or other large
body of water. A party of older Girl Scouts from
Springfield, Massachusetts, has chartered for a
summer cruise the schooner Yankee, just returned
from a trip around the world. There is no reason
why Sea Scouts and Mariners should not plan
sailing trips together.

The activities of the
E. R.A. in promoting
group music and dra-
matics have incalculable
possibilities. Young
people will flock to a
chorus or orchestra and
work with absorption
together in getting up a
play, constructing scen-
ery and costumes, de-
vising lighting effects,
and so on. A common
interest in any art —-
playing an instrument,
designing and sketch-
ing, photography, will
draw many a boy and
girl together.

A project that needs
to be tried out more
fully is that of com-
munity workshops for
young people, especially
in smaller places. The
experience of a Girl
Scout camp in Rhode Island shows what may be
done. An old craftsman, a man of many skills,
was in charge of the camp workshop, and the
girls under his direction, visited old houses and
made reproductions of old latches, hinges, and so
on in wrought iron and reflector lamps, candle-
sticks, and other articles_of tin, as well as work-
ing bu other traditional crafts. In almost any
village—at least in the older parts of the country
-—there are these old workmen and workwomen,
who are able to teach not only a craft but also the
history and traditions of the local past. And what
a boon for them to be employed. \Vith such re-
sources. there is no need for boys and girls to
waste their time on gift shop trumpery.

(Continued on. jump 228)

Chicago Makes l—ler Preparations

 

lVidc Il’orld Photos, Inc.

Chicago’s Recreation Mayor

HE SECOND Recreation Congress to be held in

Chicago will convene on the 30th of next

September. Proud of its new field houses,
the city invited the National Recreation Associa-
tion to hold the 1907 Congress in the city, at the
beginning of the municipal recreation program in
the park systems. The community small park was
a new idea at that time; its service to the people
of the city was just getting under way; local en-
thusiasm over the innovation was at its height, and
representatives of other cities were interested in
studying the outcome of Chicago’s experiments.
The fieldhouses at that time numbered ten in the
South Park System, and under the direction of
E. B. DeGroot they had established themselves as
new factors in the life of their neighboring com-
munities. There were playgrounds for old and
young, swimming pools and skating areas, athletic
fields and gymnasiums-'—indoors and out—~511r-
rounded by landscaped borders, proving that

for the

Recreation Congress

By V. K. BROWN

Chief of the Recreation Division
Chicago Park District ‘

places for vigorous activity might still be kept
sightly and constitute adornment to the city and
a suitable part of a beautiful park system.

The Old and the New

Speaking for Chicago, Mayor Edward  Kelly
invited the 1935 Recreation Congress to the city,
because changes have taken place quite as new
in their way as were those presented to the in-
spection of the earlier convention. The original
ten fieldhouses, in the now unified metropolitan
park system have come to number 90 buildings,
operating in the service of the people of the city,
in the Park District alone. Adjoining public schools,
and serving both the school children and the
neighborhoods where they are located, the Board
of Education now maintains 61 school play-
grounds, many equipped with their own special
shelter buildings. Under the city government pro-
per, operated through the Bureau of Parks, Play-
grounds, Bathing Beaches and Airports, are 39
neighborhood play centers, ranging from small
playgrounds in densely populated districts to large
sized athletic fields. Circling the city there are
close to 60 square miles of natural forest preserve,
operated by the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County, as a woodland place of resort, inviting
the people of the city to visit and enjoy not only
the native landscape of the region but also pre-
pared pleasure grounds—camp sites, picnic groves,
swimming pools, and golf courses.

203

204 CHICAGO MAKES HER PREPARATIONS FOR THE CONGRESS

The Mayor invited the Congress to come back
and see the growth of thirty years in a city made
conscious of the value of an adequate recreation
plant and equipment. The Congress was invited
also to bring its selected group of specialist coun-
selors into the center of this physical set of prop-
erties, to consider, together with the local plan-
ners of Chicago’s services to leisure, the means of
adapting both plant and program to the new needs
which are emerging, and require new adaptations
of the service.

Mayor Kelly was himself President of the
Board of South Park Commissioners during thir-
teen critical years of expansion in that system be-
fore consolidation. He saw through to at least its
initial stages of completion the filling in of the
lake front, the increasing of park acreage op—
posite the heart of the city, and the provision of
a publicly owned strip of shore land from Jack-
son Park for six miles northward to the center of
Chicago. The Stadium—usince christened Soldier
Field—was built as a modern metropolitan town
hall during his presidency of the Park Board. The
Shedd Aquarium and the Adler Planetarium were
donated by private citizens to the newly develop-
ing civic center in Grant Park, and the Bucking-
ham Memorial Fountain, electrically illuminated,
was presented to the Park Board while he held
that chair. A bond issue was approved by the
voters restoring in stone the temporary structure
which housed the Fine Arts Exhibit of the
\Vorld’s Fair of 1893, to take permanent place
among the great institutions of the city as the
Rosenwald Museum of Science and Industry——
the gift of Julius Rosenwald to Chicago in its
museum features and in part as to the building
itself, supplementing by private philanthropy the
public contribution to the building restoration
proper.

In all of this development the thought of serv-
ice to the recreational and cultural needs of the
city had been dominant, and paralleling these ma-
jor improvements the con-
tinuing development of new
small parks went forward
with additional fieldhouses
built and put into service, as
affording more intimate bene-
fits to the masses of the peo-
ple. Mayor Kelly had seen
changes take place in the type
of program operated in the
parks and on the playgrounds

gress to enjoy

In I907 Chicago was host to the first
Recreation Congress to be held—one ot
the history-making events in the recrea-
tion movement. And now Chicago in-
vites the Twenty-first Recreation Con-
its hospitality and see
the changes which have taken place in
twenty-eight years. V. K. Br'ownl who
for years was associated with the Chi-
cago South Park System, tells us of
some of the changes and innovations.

of the system—ethe introduction of more of de-
mocracy among self-taught and self-sustaining
groups, with less emphasis upon teaching, and
more of emphasis on independent experimenting
among the group members, and now that universal
leisure presents itself in terms not of the idle
l‘lOllI', but rather of the idle half day, and 0111' rec-
reational institutions must serve not casual visit-
ors, but whole communities, he voiced not only
his own experience and deep interest in the recre-
ational welfare of his city, but he expressed also
the feeling of the entire city over which he now
presides as Mayor, when he invited a Congress of
the nation’s thinkers and students to come this
Autumn to Chicago, look over with us the facili-
ties which we have, and advise with us in our
pioneering in the new service to the spare-time
life of our city.

Chicago Offers Many Advantages

Chicago is, we think, a fortunate choice for
holding a review and stock-taking convention. It
is a representative industrial city, with the faults,
the advantages and the possibilities implied by
that fact. It is a city which has lately been gal-
vanized into a progressive outlook by the fact
that its Century of Progress Exposition was suc-
cessfully carried through in the darkest days of
the depression. Dramatizing man’s triumph over
difficulty, featuring the application of thoughtful
study to immediate problems, reflecting the ac-
complishment of the scientific approach, the Ex-
position could not but be stimulating.

In its second year the Exposition management
approached the municipal governments of Chi-
cago, asking that they contribute exhibits. The
Park Board at the moment was in the process of
taking over and re-organizing the park services.
The exhibit which the new Board installed was of
a demonstration sort, featuring some of the newer
types of recreational hobbies. There were exhibits
of boys working on model airplanes, bird houses
‘ and metal engines; of girls
making their own dolls.
masks, and puppets; of
women quilting, tooling lea-
ther, and engaged in fabric
decoration in various art-
crafts. There was very little
space given to athletics and
sports, but considerable space
devoted to weaving and to
some of the old and new

CHICAGO llfAKES HER PREPARATIONS FOR THE CONGRESS 205

 

One of the beautiful sights delegates to the Rec-

reation Congress will see—the Japanese Garden in
Jackson Par|<I the gift of the Japanese government

table games. \Vith con-
solidation of the parks
impending, visitors were
asked to register their names, if interested resi-
dents of Chicago, at any of the booths which at—
tracted them, in order that they might be advised
later when club groups should be formed to un-
dertake such activities in the parks near their
homes.

The tremendous registration which resulted evi-
denced the public’s readiness to undertake a new
sort of recreational program. It proved to our"
satisfaction that locally, at least, there was a need
of thinking in new terms if. we were to meet the
requirements of the new leisure, and when con-
solidation of the parks became a fact, Under a
restricted budget—since consolidation had been
approved by the voter as a means of ,economy in
public expenditure—ewe were faced not with a
mere demand that we scale down our costs; we
were confronted, rather, with the absolute neces-
sity of building from the ground up a new organi-
zation, developing a new and much more compre-
hensive program than in the past, on a basis of
expenditure below any point of economy which
the major systems, .at least, had ever in the past
approximated.

This did not merely tend toward a gradual re-
vision of program and organization; it demanded
an entirely new program and organization, as a

matter of absolute ne-
cessity. That program
and organization has
now had almost a year in which to prove or dis-
prove itself. It has shattered all previous attend-
ance records. 'Under the stimulus of doing a new
and experimental work, the personnel of the or-
ganization has experienced a v-italizing of morale.
Communities have reacted to the newer type of
service in a fresh spirit of adventure, and if it was
true that Chicago had, in 1907, something new in
its fieldhouses to present to the Recreation Con-
gress of that year, the various recreation systems
of the present have also something new to present
to the- Congress in 1935. For Chicago, we .be-
lieve, has passed through in a brief period of time
something of a revolution in re—adapting its rec-
reation service to the needs and to the conditions
of the present. ‘
The major part of the program of thirty years
ago was physical action— the dance, and the spirit
of play. No one need apologize for that fact;
working long hours, communities of that day
stood in desperate need of the spirit of play. Peo-
ple from various lands, newly arrived in America,
found a deep spiritual significance in presenting
to the American audiences at that time the charac-
teristic dances of their former home land. Sport,
game, and physical action, now as then, continues

( C outinued on page 228)

Schlegel Park—A Gift to

A city receives as a gift
land and an old homestead
where aged residents once
played as little children

N 1861 Solomon and Mary

I Schlegel purchased from the

Peter Strohecker Estate a 51
acre farm. More than seventy
years later their sons Edmund
and Ordmon Schlegel, with their
wives presented to the city for
park, playground and recreational
purposes a part of this tract
amounting to over 23 acres as a
memorial to their parents.

The property was originally
bounded on the east by the Schuyl- I
kill River. A beautiful stream abounding with
fish flowed through the center of it. The original
homestead was a mecca for many citizens who
walked or rode to the farm to drink the cool
limestone waters and the fresh milk, and to eat
home—made ice cream. Many of the older resi-
dents of the city are_ happy that this garden spot
known to them in their childhood is now to be a
public park.

The City of Reading in 1916 annexed the terri-
tory to the west of the Schuylkill River, now the
Eighteenth Ward, and this tract was included in
the area, thereby making it possible to become a
park within the city limits.

The park, which is only a five minute ride from
the main business section, will include a spring-
fed pond of about two acres in which children
will be able to‘ sail small boats and which can be
used for skating in winter. Adjacent to the pond
there will be the children’s play areas equipped

with play apparatus.
Near the center of the park stands the old

homestead and a fine large stone barn. These will ‘

be converted for use. as an administration and

206

 

This fine old home with all its traditions
will soon be serving the needs of a new era

storage building and possibly a field house or rec.
reation center where meetings and social gather-
ings can be held.

For Outdoor Recreation

A gentle hillside at one side of the homestead
will lend itself admirably for development as an
outdoor theatre. The other side of the homestead,
which runs up to and includes a knoll, the high
point in the park, will be planted and set aside as
a rest park and for small family picnic purposes.
A high flat area at the extreme north end of the
park will serve adult active recreation needs. Here
a running track, baseball diamond, football grid-
iron and a battery of fOUr tennis courts will
eventually be provided. Automobile parking ac-
commodations will be established in connection
with these facilities and additional parking space
will be available at the park center buildings.

The Reading park authorities are considering
starting the construction work in the near future
so that some of the new 'facilities will be available
for use during the current year.

How One City Acquired Play Areas

Proving that there are more
ways than one of solving the
problem of more play space‘.

IGHT YEARS AGO the City of Glens Falls did
E not own a single square foot of land dedi-
cated to play purposes. Four of our six
playgrounds, to be sure, were in school yards,
always a satisfactory arrangement if space is ade-
quate and friendly cooperation exists between the
school and recreation departments, as fortunately
is the case here. But the other two centers in the
east section of town where no school sites were
available, were simply unsightly vacant lots upon
which we had merely squatter’s rights. Unfor-
tunately, as is frequently the case, this was the
section of the community where need of play
facilities and leadership was the greatest.

The Land Is Found

So we set about remedying the situation, and
in our survey we found a beautiful twenty acre
tract admirably situated to serve a neighborhood
that seemed to be building up rapidly. The nat-
ural contours were excellent for our purposes
and on the lower end was a large quarry pond,
which, though exceedingly dangerous because of
its depth and precipitous sides, nevertheless added
beauty to the landscape and would be safe for
skating. Quarrying had long since proved 11n-
profitable, the Board of Health had prohibited the
use of ice cut there, and the division of the
property into building lots was not feasible be-
cause of the cost of blasting
out cellars in a rock ledge ly-

By RUTH SHERBURNE

Superintendent of Recreation

Glens Falls, New York

a reasonable figure. Finally in 1929 the owner
died and the City Planning Committee of the
Chamber of Commerce, whose chairman happen-
ed to be the Superintendent of Recreation, de-
cided the time had come to buy it. The land was
appraised and the figure given by the bank was
$6,500. Accordingly the committee met in execu-
tive session with the City Council, and a gentle-
men’s agreement was made that if the committee
could get title to the property the Council would
place a referendum on the ballot in November,
1929 for the purchase of the land. While this
referendum was not legally necessary, everyone
agreed that it would furnish excellent publicity
and would tend to build up public sentiment for
the playground work.

A Plan for Payment Is Devised

Immediately one of the members of the com-
mittee borrowed $6,500 at the bank and the note
was signed by sixteen of the most prominent
business men of the city. Armed with a check
for this amount, the committee member in charge
visited the attorney of the estate and offered him
$6,500 for the entire tract. The transaction was
closed immediately. The endorsers 0f the note
then had an agreement drawn up by their at-
torney that they would hold this property until
such time as the city took it over at exactly what
they had paid for it plus taxes
and carrying charges. Before

ing only two or three feet be-
low the surface. Nevertheless
the elderly owner of the tract
insisted upon the exhorbitant
price of $11,500.

It was a glorious site for a
playground and a number of
attempts were made, but with—
out success, to get options at

Several city planners have urged that
there is really iust as much basis
for requiring the setting aside of land
for parks and playgrounds and open
spaces as there is for setting aside
land for streets when we plan the
newer parts of our cities. Joseph
LeeI commenting on these statements.
has said: "In other words, it is iust
as important to live as it is to be
able to go from place to place."

the time for the referendum
came, moreover, they bought
another two acre playground
the same way for $6,000, and
on election day the voters de-
termined, two to one, to ac-
quire both tracts.

The people in the neighbor-
hood of the larger area, which

207

208 HOIV ONE CITY ACQUIRED PLAY AREAS

we call East Playground, were most enthusiastic
over the acquisition of their playground, and from
the very beginning they have done everything pos-
sible to cooperate with the Commission. During
the winter of 1930 the Commission got rid of the
unsightly old ice houses, stone crusher and other
buildings used in the quarry and ice business by
selling them for salvage. But this was not suf—
ficient and early the next spring the pe0ple of the
neighborhood planned a great work day and
eighty men and older boys spent not only that en-
‘tire day but many succeeding Saturday afternoons
picking up, rooting out stumps, grading, seeding
and Planting shrubbery they brought from their
own homes. ‘As time has gone on the city has
each year been able to do more and more toward
the development of the place.
A splendid regulation diamond
and two softball diamonds
have been laid out. An attrac-
tive little field house has grown
out of the ruins of an old
blacksmith’s shop. A brook
that was scarcely more than an
open storm sewer running the
entire width of the property
has been directed into a pipe.
A high fence was erected last
year to protect the dangerous
pond. Important grading has
be accomplished through relief
projects.

In the meantime the pe0ple
of the neighborhood have
formed the East Neighbor—
hood Association which now numbers more than
two hundred men and women. Through field
days, card parties and dances they have raised
money for a number of different purposes in con—
nection with the playground—equipping a men’s
baseball team, paying play leaders for a month
when the Commission’s funds were low, building
on a little kitchen, and this last fall furnishing
the materials for a beautiful chimney and fire-
place in the field house constructed of stone quar-

ried on the place.

More Land Secured

The only unfortunate feature about this beau-
tiful area has been the fact that we have needed
a strip of land 150 feet wide, extending 750 feet
along our eastern boundary line, which cut us off
from access to an important thoroughfare. Own—

ing this land would not only give us the needed
right of way and broaden out our field, but would
prevent the possibility of our having, in time, a
row of unsightly garages or sheds bordering our
beautiful play area. From time to time efforts
were made to buy these lots in the same way the
original property had been purchased, but the
owner, realizing we needed them, had held out on
a price so high that no one would dream of pay-
ing it. Just before Christmas, however, we heard
the property was for sale; the owner was hard up
and willing to sell at a reasonable price. already
there were other bidders. A friendly real estate
man tipped us off to the situation.

The Superintendent of Recreation immediately
signed an option personally and then went to the

 

Courtesy Milwaukee County Regional Planning Department

Fortunate indeed is the city’ which has within
its limits. or near at handI picnic places

Neighborhood Association with the information.
The people in this district are all working men
and women, owners of their little homes and self-
respecting citizens, but many are out of work at
the present time. The $890.00 asked for the
property seemed a large amount to raise, but with—
out hesitation they shouldered the responsibility.
Immediately one member offered to buy. the
prOperty outright and let the Association buy it
on a three years contract from him. This ar-
rangement made it possible for the Association to
get better terms than from the original owner.
The Association has already paid $100.00 and the
taxes, and by a series of parties has raised, in the

(Continued on page 229)

Music in a Public Recreation Department.

music activities was con-

ducted in Cincinnati, Ohio,
as one part of Work Relief Pro-
ject No. 31—F5-300 set up by
the Hamilton County Emergency Relief Admin-
istration under the supervision of the Music De-
partment of the Public Recreation Commission.
The project was designed to give work of a con-
st1*Uctive nature to unemployed professional musi-
cians in Hamilton County. Other phases of the
project were rehearsals for concerts, free public
concerts, concerts in tax-exempt or tax-supported
institutions, the organization and teaching of lei-
sure-time classes for free gI'Ollp music instruc-
tion of underprivileged citizens, the organization
and direction of recreational music activities, and
the arranging and c0pying of music.

That there was a real need for such a fact-find-
ing study and that it was of value to the com-
munity are self-evident. As an example, the Pub-
lic Recreation Commission more than once during
the past few years has felt the need for such in-
formation in the development of its program of
permanent music activities. With the program
definitely committed by the very set-up of the de-
partment to include cultural activities, and with a
constantly shrinking budget during the past three
years, at least, with which to meet ever increasing
demands for service, a number of questions were
constantly arising. “Are we spending what money
we have to the best advantage ?” “Are we dupli-
cating the work, if not the function, of some other
agency or group?” Questions such as these must
surely have confronted other public and private
agencies in our city. They-could be answered
only by a knowledge of what
is being done and who is doing
it. Hand in hand with these
questions went the inquiries:
“What music activities inter—
est our citizens?” “How many
such activities are there and
where?” “How many people
participate in the activities at
least fairly regularly?”

We felt, too, that whether

EST FALL a survey of the city’s

By HARRY G. GLORE

Supervisor of Community Music
Public Recreation Commission

Cincinnati, Ohio

In connection with its work relief pro-
gram for unemployed musicians, Cin-
cinnati. OhioI recently conducted a
survey in an etfort to get as complete
a picture as possible of the city's or-
ganized group music activities. We
present here some of the findings of
the study as they relate to the pro-
gram offered by the Public Recreation

Commission through its Department
of Community Music.

or not any conclusions we might
attempt to draw from our facts
and statistics were sound, the
mere accumulation and publish-
ing of the facts would be of
real value to those in our community interested in
music. Finally, granting that the study would
prove of value, something would have been added
to the sum and total of the knowledge of our city
which would be tangible evidence of the worth of
the work relief project, long after the free con-
certs have become pleasant memories, valuable as
they have proved in adding to the pleasure of our
citizens and in helping to make life for thousands
a little more worth while.

Activities Conducted

In discussing the findings of the study in rela-
tion to the activities of the Public Recreation
Commission, it is important to remember that a
great many of the musical activities organized and
supervised by the Department of Community
Music are made possible by the assignment of
musicians and music teachers to the department
by the Emergency Relief Administration and the
Ohio Emergency Schools Administration. In fact,
more than one—half of the regular weekly music
activities of the Commission are being conducted
with leaders paid by these two relief agencies.
The centralization of these activities under one
head makes coordination possible and eliminates
friction and dUplication in a way which would be
out of the question if each agency were proceed-
ing separately. Moreover it reduces to a mini-
mum the expense of operation for the relief agen-
cies and takes advantage of the facilities of a
regular branch of the city gov-
ernment with specialists train-
ed for the work.

The entire personnel of the
department is as follows:

I supervisor of community
music

16 part-time seasonal di-

rectors and accompanists

6 teachers paid by Ohio

. Emergency Schools Ad-

ministration

209

‘5

210

57 musicians on FERA pro-

ject No. 31-F5-300
(2 orchestras and leaders
of community groups)
7 auxiliary organizations
74 volunteers

The regular program is set
up with a view to perma-
nency, with definite long—
time policies and objectives
back of it, and before it was
augmented by the relief agen-
cies called for permanent dis-
trict orchestras and choruses
in each high school district,
meeting in the public high

ln his Annual Report tor I934 Mr. Glore

gives some supplementary tigures and in-
formation. In I933 there were 33 groups
meeting regularly once a week. In I934
there were 77 such groups. In March and
April I935 the number of weekly activi-
ties reached a peak ot l08 classes and
groups. Mr. Glore lays great stress on
the fact that whatever success has been
achieved in the rapid expansion of the
music program in the past two years has,
in his opinion. been due to the coopera-
tion of local reliet agencies in relating
F. E. R. A. music projects so closely to
the municipal recreation program and in
placing them under the same supervision.

MUSIC IN A PUBLIC RECREATION DEPARTMENT

of education of the Cincin-
nati Conservatory of Music,
the head of the Theory De-
partment of the College of
Music, the dean of the Col-
lege of Education of the Uni-
versity of Cincinnati a repre-
sentative of the Federation
of Parent-Teacher Associa-
tions’ Music Committee and
the supervisor of community
music who serves as secre-
tary. This group meets with
the supervisor and advises
the department on all mat-

school buildings. These were to serve not only
the high school graduate in adult life but also
other members of the community as well. In
addition, there is the Civic Orchestral Society,
a non+professional symphonic orchestra to
draw from the best amateurs in all parts of
the city. The Cincinnati Choiristers is a mixed
c-horus meeting downtown. Then there are the
choruses in the \Vest End as well as choruses
in Sayler Park, Cumminsville, Walnut Hills
and Madisonville. This permanent set-up
comprises at present ten adult choruses and
nine adult orchestras meeting from October to
April. Seven orchestras are white and two col-
ored, while eight choruses are colored and two
white.

Summer orchestras are conducted along with
the playground program not only for recreation
but to give the children an opportunity to con-
tinue orchestra playing during the summer months
when school is closed.

Community singing is handled by volunteer
song leaders with the music department serving
as a clearing house and sup—

ters of important policy involving both the de-
velopment of the program and the relations with
other music agencies and organizations. It has
one annual meeting in October, with such other
meetings from time to time as are deemed neces-
sary. The members are appointd by the Public
Recreation Commission for two year terms.

Another important auxiliary of the Commis-
sion whose music committee renders valuable as-
sistance in the promotion of the program among
colored people, is the Citizens’ Recreation Council.

The leadership supplied by the Ohio Emergency
Schools Administration has been used to develop
classes in history of music, voice, piano, harmony,
sight singing, orchestra, chorus. These are in the
direction of adult education but in the larger
sense also recreation. They not only are leisure-
time activities now; they are preparing several
hundreds of people for a richer and fuller use of
leisure. Again, who can say where education
stops and recreation begins?

The classes conducted by musicians on work
relief project No. 3I—F5-300 are more varied than
' those set up under the Emer—

plying song sheets at cost.
The department also serves
as a cdnsulting agency giv-
ing assistance wherever pos-
Sible to other groups.

Of the auxiliary groups
listed, the Cincinnati Mu-
nicipal Music AdviSOry
Council is the most impor—
tant. It consists of the di-
rector of music in the pub—-
lic schools, the managing
director of the May Festi-
val Association, the director

I'This year." states the Annual Report' "saw
the most extensive program of tree enter-
tainment yet ottered. The 89 programs the
two F.E.R.A. orchestras played were given
in 63 different places' and detinite and
careful thought was given the planning of
programs so that they would be ot the ut-
most value as well as good entertainment.
They were of the following types: (I) Free
dances tor unemployed or people on relief;
(2) Concerts tor shut-ins and inmates of in-
stitutions tor aged and orphans; (3) Con-
certs in schools correlated with the regu-
lar school program so as to have education-
al as well as entertainment values' and (4)
Outdoor and indoor tree public concerts."

gency Schools Administra-
tidn. They include classes
for underprivileged children
as well as adults. Where the
Emergency Schools classes
are confined by the rules of
the administration to adult
education, project No. 3I~
F5-300 was organized and
approved to allow activities
of a recreational nature and
work with children as well
as adults.

(Continued on page 230)

The Place of Drama in Recreation

An answer to the question—"What type of
drama belongs in the recreation program?"

111*: REASON why community
drama has been so Very
successful—and I do not
know of a single community where, under proper
organization, it has failed—is, perhaps, because it
is not a new and startling idea but a very old one.
The strolling players, the mummers. the Guilds of
the early Renaissance are all the spiritual ances-
tors of the modern drama of the people. Drama
has always been the most democratic of the arts
so it is no wonder that it fits into the recreation
program like an old shoe. Together with dancing
and music it has always belonged to the people.
Over and over again I have found individuals
both among group members and leaders who have
been fairly antagonistic toward drama andwho
were completely won over to it when confronted
with the argument of a well-directed community
production. It has been amazing to watch the
change that has come about in the last fifteen
years. Perhaps nothing gives you quite such bird's-
eye view of the country as a whole as a corre-
spondence service. Our consultation service
which is offered free of charge brings us letters
from people in all parts of the country conducting
every type of drama activity. Fifteen years ago
we urged groups to include drama in their pro-
gram; now we spend days and weeks reading
plays and getting out lists to answer the question
—“can you tell me a good play for my group to
give 3"” Short plays, long plays, royalty plays, non—
royalty plays, plays for the P.T.A. meeting, plays
for the family to put on in the home to entertain
the neighbors, children’s plays, senior class plays
and plays for women’s clubs and
men’s clubs are all in demand to—
day. People know what they
want. The standards are high
and today we check the best au—
thors on the list and only regret
that there aren’t more of them.
Another inquiry which we f re—

By MABEL FOOTE HOBBS

National Recreation Association

Mrs. Hobbs discussed the ques-
tion of drama in' the recreation
program before the members of
the Municipal Training School
for City and Village Officials
which was held at Rochester.
April |7th and I8th.

quently receive is: “how can I
go about directing a play ?”
\Vorkers without much experi-
ence but with a willingness to learn are constantly
asking for guidance and we have succeeded in
putting on paper a method of production which
enables them to take the group through the first
necessary steps toward a successful production.
The little handful of letters that we received fif-
teen years ago has grown to six or seven thousand
a year.

From Puppet Show to Little Theatre

In our contacts with recreation executives the
question we are most frequently called upon to
answer is—“what type of drama should a recrea—
tion department sponsor.” There seems to be a
strange idea that it should be very elementary
drama; in fact the drama that belongs to the rec-
reation department is generally called dramatics.
The recreation department, it seems to me, should
sponsor any phase which its finances and time per-
mit—from the puppet Show to the peak of ama-
teur achievement—the Little Theatre. In the
complete amateur drama program the Little Thea—
tre is the goal toward which all drama effort is
directed. When every phase of drama is under
the same department, the child who takes part in
a little playlet on the playground may look for—
ward to belonging to the Little Theatre group if
he can develop into a sufficiently skillful player.
The Little Theatres represent the ultimate in non—
professional drama and in a good many communi—
ties they are the only means of bringing the drama
of the professional stage to the
people.

To perform these diflicult
plays it is necessary to cultivate
a group of experienced actors.
And there is nothing undemocra—
tic in the fact that these groups
are rather small and exclusive.

211

212 THE PLACE .OF DRAMA IN RECREATION

When the Little Theatre is under the sponsorship
of the recreation department, however, the door is
constantly kept open to new talent. Try-outs are
held from time to time and the only requisite for
membership is' ability. It» works out Very satis-
factorily on this basis because anyone will agree
that it is no fun to play any.game out of your
class. A poor bridge player or tennis player does-
n’t enjoy playing with experts and the game is
spoiled for everyone when he is admitted. It is
just the same with drama. I recently talked with
a young man who had studied for the professional
theatre and played a few small parts. He was
perfectly willing to work with an amateur group
but when he tried it he found that he simply
didn’t fit in. Helen Ford Stafford has a little
group of professional actors who play together
constantly under her direction, just to “keep their
hand in.” Because they are all in the same class
they are able to get something out of the work.
Playing with actors who were less experienced
would spoil the purpose of their work. So. in the
Little Theatre the best of the community’s talent
is brought together, but under recreation leader-
ship there is always an opportunity for the actor
who has developed beyond his little club group to
step over into the group of more experienced and
talented players.

Where Plans Have Become Realities

This pleasant panorama of community drama is
not just a fanciful idea. Miss Dorothy Enderis,
recreation executive in Milwaukee, has proved
beyond question that such a plan can work out.
In eight years she has organized a splendid drama
department from a few scattered groups of play-
ers. In 1928 a drama specialist was brought in
and the work of organizing drama through the
Extension Department of the Milwaukee Public
Schools was started. There were only six groups
at that time; now there are twenty-eight active
drama organizations. A tournament is held each
year and as many groups‘as care to may enter
their plays. No try-out is necessary for member—
ship in these organizations. An interest in drama
is the only requirement. In addition to the small
groups throughout the city a little theatre group
known as the Milwaukee Players has been formed.
This represents the cream of amateur talent and
membership in this group is the goal of all mem-
bers of the smaller groups. For a number of years
one outstanding player from each tournament
production was chosen for membership in the Mil-

waukee Players, but since this seemed too limit-
ing a new plan has been adopted this year. Any
member of other various smaller groups who has
attended 75 per cent of his group meetings may
try out for membership. The candidates meet the
judges at a given time and are handed three short
excerpts which they interpret. A finished produc-
tion of “King Lear” by the Milwaukee Players
last year represents the outgrowth of the move-
ment begun six years ago.

During the same year that Miss Enderis was
launching her program I met with a group in
Glens Falls, New York, who were planning to
start a community drama project under the lead-
ership of Miss Ruth Sherburne, the recreation
executive. Up until that time there were a num-
ber of independent groups producing plays in the
various clubs and churches. But these plays were
usually given for money making purposes and
that fact interfered greatly with the type of play
selected. The new drama organization has raised
the standard of the productions and opened mem-
bership to anyone in the town who can qualify.
After a trial of four years a permanent director, a
local person, was employed. In a recent produc—
tion the leading lady had never set foot on a stage
before her try out. The Outing Club Players have
given such excellent plays as Little Father of the
Wilderness, M 1'. Pim Passes By and The Dover
Road. They have just closed their eighth season
with a delightful performance of Candlelight, a
play in which Leslie Howard and Gertrude
Lawrence appeared on Broadway.

The York, Pennsylvania, Little Theatre is an—
other interesting example of a recreation depart-
ment project. In this case a paid director was
brought in. This group has a good many mem-
bers who are not interested in acting but who
enjoy building scenery. making costumes and
other back stage jobs so important to the success
of the production. Under the management of Mr.
Carl Glick, who is directing the group, a series of
lectures is also conducted.

The Play Tournament

3ut in many communities it will not be feasible
for the recreation department to suddenly assume
the responsibility for a Little Theatre. There are,
however, any number of opportunities to promote
drama in your city. Since it is difficult to find a
community where there are no drama groups,
there is always the interesting possibility of bring-
ing the groups already organized together in a

THE PLACE OF DRAMA IN RECREATION 213

tournament which the department manages. The
drama tournament has never been more success-
ful than when under such a sponsor. This year
the Rock Island, Illinois, Recreation Department
will sponsor the eighth drama tournament. In
Plainfield, New Jersey, the department will pre-
sent the eleventh play contest. Lansing, Michigan,
will hold its fifth. And in any number of other
cities an annual one—act play tourney under the
management of recreation commissions will be an
important community event this spring.

Last November we received a request from a
drama director who had just been assigned to the
Recreation Department of Pontiac, Michigan. She
wished to know how the department could con-
tribute to a drama movement in her city. \Ve sug-
gested the tournament among other things and we
just recently received a letter from her with a
program of the first drama tournament sponsored
by the Recreation Department. It had been a great
success and was followed by a delightful banquet
for the players. The tournament paid all expenses
and the profits are to be used to establish a play
library. The letter also stated that for the first
time the Pontiac Civic Players, a fine group of
actors, had affiliated itself with the Department.

Other Projects

The play library is an excellent by-product of _

the community drama movement and is a worth
while undertaking for a recreation department.
A few state university extension departments Hof-
fer this service, but there is a great need for it
in every community that has a drama program.
The costume bureau and work shop are other pro-
jects that develop along with play production and
that might well be sponsored by the department.
'An outstanding example of such a costume bureau
is the one maintained by the San Francisco Recre-
ation Commission.

Besides the tournament there is the civic
pageant or the playground festival or circus that
the recreation department may sponsor. New
York’s beautiful May Day celebration in Central
Park is conducted every year by the Board of
Education. Hundreds of school children take part
in this charming festival. The play circuit is an—
other excellent project. Neighboring communities
exchange plays or a group may take its play to
several towns within a county. The outdoor thea-
tre functions successfully in several localities dur—
ing the summer months under recreation depart-
ment management.

Children’s Drama

But if all these things seem impossible to you;
if your deflated budget and small staff would not
permit any of them, there is still a very logical
and simple way to begin. I am referring to chil—
dren’s drama. It seems to me that the real secret
of a successful amateur drama program lies in
starting with the children and carrying them
straight through until they form the nucleus of
your Little Theatre group. Children of nine and
ten are ready for drama but very little has been
given them. They have taken part in simple
dramatizations and festivals, but in only a few
cities has the work of giving them formal drama
been undertaken. We all know that for some
years the high schools .have been producing Broad-
way successes and I believe that these productions
show a tremendous need for formal drama before
the high school years are reached. Young people
who have spent the elementary and intermediate
grade years in informal drama find it difficult to
assume the burden of a highly professional play.
When formal drama is begun at the age of nine,
competent players and directors naturally develop,
and as the young people advance the community
program becomes unified.

This idea has been carried out with notable suc-
cess in Greater New York where the Bronx, Man-
hattan and Brooklyn Boroughs are all conducting
splendid children’s drama programs. I have always
felt this achievement a striking example of a city-
wide children’s drama program developed through
a city department’s own leaders—a method which
I strongly favor. About five years ago playground
directors of the Park Department attended special
courses in children’s drama and began the work
on their own playgrounds. For two years these
new drama directors were supervised. From time
to time short supplementary courses were held in
one borough or another.

Now they are carrying on the work independ-
ently. In checking up this spring I learned that a
hundred plays were presented by twenty Brook-
lyn playgrounds during the last season'. Since the
first of February children from playgrounds of
Manhattan have been producing six plays every
Saturday morning to enthusiastic audiences at one
of the recreation centers. In the Bronx four fes-
tivals in which all playgrounds took part were pre-
sented last season. One was given on the occasion
of the Opening of a new ground with a swimming

(Continued on page 230)

Blue Mound Banishes the Depression Blues

THIS LITTLE community of 817

souls certainly never expect-

ed to entertain between 40,000 and 50,000 visi-
tors (luring the sixteen consecutive Wednesday
nights when we planned, in the winter months pre-
ceding, for our little open air theatre in the village
park.

No one was more astonished at the amazing
popularity of this venture, planned for the enter-
tainment of the home folks by the home folks
than those who sat around the old cannon stove in
the back part of the hardware store in February
of 1934 and discussed its possibilities.

This town of Blue Mound, Illinois, located in
the heart of what is known as the country’s great-
est corn producing area, had passed through the
period of 13. cent corn, eight cent oats and two
dollar hogs. Even good crops did not yield enough
money to pay the taxes, not to mention rent for
the landlord or a decent living for the tenant who
had put in a full year of work with no actual re—
turn for himself and his family. \Vith the return
of higher prices came the two worst years of
drought that had struck this area in a half centUry.

Things had been pretty bad throughout that
winter. \Ve are a wholly agricultural community.
There isn’t an industry in the town—Ljust the grain
elevator, the bank and the usual stores and filling
stations found in the rural village of the middle
west. The surrounding country is one of rich
black soil, usually prosperous in normal times, but
when it took a load of corn to buy a pair of shoes,
three bushels of oats to get into a movie and a 250
pound hog to buy a hat there
wasn't much business. Then

By CHARLES BRADLEY

gested that it was time to do
something to get the village out
of its mental dumps, nail kegs were upturned about
the old stove and the subject talked over.

“'e had had concerts by the village band but
interest in them had petered out. Free movies
were tried, but the movies we could afford to get
were not Up to the taste of the community and
that flopped.

The village has a line little park with great
towering trees in it. \Vhy not, it was suggested,
promote a project for the community to be staged
under the trees in that park during the coming
summer? And so the idea of the out-door theatre
was born in that discussion around the old stove
in the rear of the store. We would see if we
could not do something to break the community
of its five year habit of persistently looking down
its nose. .

A twenty-live piece band was organized, prac-
tice was "faithfully carried on throughout the
spring and programs, with the band as the con—
tinuity feature, were gradually developed. As the
plan slowly took shape more and more members
of the community became interested and more and
more nail kegs were upturned for seats at the
conferences which continued about the stove in
the store.

A stage was built in the park by the men of the
village. The simple properties to be used on it
were constructed in the rear of the hardware
store by men who worked far into the night. The
\Vabash railroad gave us old railroad ties which
we used for uprights (by cut-
ting them in half) for the few

had followed the two dry years
when crops had failed.

Spirits were low, very low,
in our town during the winter
of 1933—34. \Vhen Charles
“'orthan, once mayor of the
village and a former profes-
sional showman who was then
running a filling station, came
into the hardware store that
February afternoon and sug—

214

The story of a rural community in cen-
tral lllinois which lifted itself out of
the despondency and gloom in which
the nation as a whole and agricultural
communities in particular had been
living for five yearsI is told by Charles
BradleyI hardware merchant. Mr.
BradleyI director of the band, is one
of the active leaders in this remark-
able community proiect which was
developed so successfully last sum-
mer and which is being continued
this year.

seats we set up for the fathers
and mothers who might attend
the entertainments we were
planning to offer. The young-
sters would probably run about
the park anyway, and we esti-
mated that the 200 seats we
were providing would be ample.

The telephone company gave
us the poles on which to
mount the flood lights and a

BLUE MOUND b’JNISHIiS THE UEPR]£.S'.S'IU.\' BLL ES 215

. UL"  _.

_ Ell l"

 

In the band are eleven farmers. a grain dealer. a

generous farmcr told us
we might have the steel
tower of his unused wind-
mill pump on which to
set up our spotlighting
equipment. This was placed about 100 feet,in
front of the stage. All the work was done by
volunteers of the community and the stage was
built in a grove of beautiful trees which overhang
it with long swinging branches.

On only one thing did we spend money. \Ve
employed an expert lighting engineer to design
and install the lighting equipment for the stage
with the result that the illumination of the par-
ticipants in the program was perfect, with Hoods,
spots, plain and tinted, and with concealed light-
ing for the music racks of the band. \Vith this
exception every bit of the work was done by the
men of the village, for the idea that we would not
permit the depression to ruin us mentally and
emotionally, whatever it may have done to us
financially, had taken hold.

What we thought would be our major 'problem
turned out to be the one most easily solved. \Ve
had no comprehension of the talent available in
the town and its immediate environs. After it was
thoroughly understood that this was a home idea
to be carried through by home folks for home
folks, talent, trained and untrained, was uncov-
ered. This was to be a home entertainment with

laborerI two school superintenden’rs, a dentist. a
Farm Bureau official. the rural mail carrier, an a’r-
fendan’r at a filling s’ra’rion. a mule driver in a
coal mine, a bank cashier and a plumber's helper

no charge for anyone who
cared to attend and no pay
for those who took part.

How completely this
series of evenings be-
came a community affair will be understood when
it is realized that during the sixteen W'ednesday
nights on which programs were given more than
400 different members of the community took
part in some of the features given. On only one
night, “Neighborhood Night,” when towns from
which hundreds of visitors had been coming to
Blue Mound each \Vednesday, were invited to
produce a stunt, were others asked to take part.
For that night Decatur sent down its Municipal
Players and other neighboring towns furnished
skits or acts for a full night’s program.

The program remains and will remain, if the
present group has its way, strictly a home affair
usng home talent. We will improve it, we think,
as we gain experience, but we do not expect ever
again to have the great thrill which we had last
summer when, expecting to entertain a few hun-
dred of the village folk, we looked out over audi-
ences which reached as many as 7,000 persons.
The members of the local post, American Legion,
acted as traffic control officers and with as high as
1,800 automobiles parked in the village at enter—
tainments it is evident that this traffic control was
very necessary.

(Continued on. page 230)

Good Times at 0 Girls’ Camp

1TH MUCH gayety and merri-
W ment stockings of all sorts,
colors and sizes, are hung around the glow-
ing fireplace in this spacious rustic hall. For this is
Christmas eve in 1934; not celebrated on Decem-
ber twenty-fifth, but July twenty-fifth at the Na-

tional Camp Fire Girls’ Camp in the Ramapo
Mountains near Arden, New York.

Christmas in July

All mystery and wonder surround this annual
event. Girls scamper off to bed before taps, hold-
ing tightly to loose and dangling belts from bath
robes and pajamas. Only the dull “Croak!”
“Croak!” of the bullfrog breaks the stillness of
the night as all the children quiet down ready for
a sound sleep under heavy woolen blankets. Sud-
denly a beautiful harmony of voices is heard sing-
ing the Christmas carols. Now softly, then louder
and louder, finally dying away in the distance.
Camp “Akiwa” and “Talaulak” are sound asleep
long before the last echo has been lost- in the
mountains.

In the morning everyone jumps out of bed and
scampers to the spacious log hall to poke around
in bulging stockings to see what Santa has be-
stowed on her. A sucker, nut cookies, juicy red
apples, oranges, plums and other delicacies are
brought forth. While munching an apple or a
plum, the early risers, clothed in bathrobes and
pajamas and chattering like blackbirds, gather on
the open air breakfast porch.

Camp Chores

It is a cool but sunshiny morning and everyone
has a keen appetite. No one hesitates to eat the
cereal she dislikes at home. All eagerly drink the
hot cocoa; warm toast and bacon follow.

After breakfast all hurry to
dress, make their own beds and
clean their cabins before time
for camp chores. “What are
camp chores?" asks a twelve
year old Japanese girl, a new
camper. A dark—eyed Jewess of
her own age satisfies her curi-
osity by answering, “Cleaning

216

By GENE GRUBB

"Youth craves adventure as the
sparks fly upward; and this«need,
too, is fortUnately met by the
summer campI while suppressing
that element of risk and danger
inseparable from the uncensored
outings of the inexperienced."—

From A Summer at Camp in
Child Welfare, May, I933.

lamps and lanterns, picking up
paper and other litter about camp,
scrubbing the wash house, gathering wood for the
council fires and cleaning the guest lodge.” Off
they dash, each to her special duty.

When the chores are over the Camp Fire Girls
are ready for their twenty minute swim. Of
course the swimming counselor is quite the most
popular person in camp. While the girls have the
fun of splashing and playing games, they enjoy
formal instruction in swimming, too, and many
become excellent swimmers in a surprisingly short
time. A shrill whistle calls everyone out; for now
it is time to dress for the Christmas dinner, with
a real turkey, plum pudding dinner with all the
trimmings. A miniature tree stands in the center
of each of the twelve tables with a star and a
Santa shining and nodding from the top of the
tree. Thus Christmas passes at Camp Akiwa.

Activities of All Kinds

Another event follows the Yuletide celebration
which is enjoyed just as much—the treasure hunt
by'the pirates, an exciting event. Late in the
afternoon these Camp Fire maidens are hunting
through boxes, suit cases 'and wardrobes for cos—
tumes for pirates. In the meantime counselors
are mysteriously and sacretly scanning trails and
marking lanes. After supper, when’duties are
over. each camper hastens to her cabin and very
soon a great transformation takes place! Black
eyes and lowering brows appear from under tur—
bans and caps. Imitation swords and many a cut—
lass dangle from belts. The search begins and all
the priates start' from the same place. “Look
under a flat rock at the flagpole,” is the first clue.
The pirates make a mad rush for the designated
spot and after much scrambling
a dark, crumbled note is uncov—
ered. It reads, “Go to the south
and of. the bridge at the brook
for further directions.” A
crudely drawn finger points to
a secret passage way along the
trail. The pirates are an excited
group. Treasure unknown is at

GOOD TIMES AT ,4 GIRLS” 04.1119 217

the end of the trail. Sign after sign leads them on
until, behold a peculiar string attracts their atten-
tion! They follow it, and down under a low over-
hanging rock—the treasure! A bag of candy bars,
apples and oranges—enough for all.

The evening of the following day is warm and
bright with moonlight when the Camp Fire maid-
ens take to the boats. Each boat is filled with
campers in care of two counselors. Slowly the
boats glide towards the middle of the lake and
soon the lake is spotted with black moving objects.
\Vell—known camp songs come floating over the
water, from different parts of the lake, to those
gathered on the dock. As the stars come out one
by one. the singing from the lake gradually.dies
away. To the listeners comes the sound of dip-
ping oars and the bullfrogs resume their inter-
rupted chorus. , '

Bradly Mountain
towers above us gigan-

guarding the little lake at its foot. The great
green mass of foliage that covers its slopes looks
black in the bright moonlight. The dark and light
shadows on the lake, the rhythm of the moun—
tains, an occasional quiver from the lake, a flicker
of light from a camp fire across the water add a
repose to the scene which makes the end of the
day one of peacefulness and rest. The campers
leave their boats and climb the hillside to their
cabins.

Tomorrow is Mary’s birthday and a grand
party is planned for her as well as the rest who
have a birthday during this camping session. Miss
Esther, the colored cook, makes the birthday
cakes. Each of the twelve tables has place cards,
a souvenir for everyone and a tiny doll. How
lucky are the campers who have birthdays here,
for never can they have. so many and interesting
guests at home! Some
have. come from foreign

"Whether we live in the city or in the country. noth-
ing so re-creates us as a return to the unspoiled
variety of the hills and plains. the woods and waters.''

tic and powerful, as if lands.

° ‘I

.
H l' ‘

a
07" -
Jr

A

j

4 .

u»- ——-- in I'll-'1

. 4 “‘3;
' .-  ,i if“
"3:2 -  I.
133.1%“ D! ‘

 

 

 

218 GOOD TIMES AT A GIRLS” CAMP

Morning Assemblies and Cabin Suppers

Morning assemblies at nine—thirty are a treat.
On warm Sunshiny mornings, all campers assem—
ble on the dock, but if it is cool they meet in
the lodge before the crackling wood fire where
the nature counselor tells them the story of the
muskrat, the snake and the frog'; the music coun-
selor teaches them new songs that they will sing
in camp and also back home in the city.

The cabin suppers are a delight. On Sunday
afternoon, after an enjoyable hike along a mys-
terious shady trail, the campers return hungry,
and ready for the many good things to eat which
are waiting them. Egg, nut and raisin sand-
wiches, chocolate cookies, apples and oranges fol-
lowed by hot cocoa, make a Sunday night supper
one to be eagerly waited for from week to week.
The lunches are taken to each cabin and after
eating, the campers dressed for slumber, snuggle
down in bed ready for the story the cabin coun—
selor has selected for them.

This morning is “topsy-turvy” day. The day
we have dinner in the morning and breakfast at
night. Twelve-year-old Judith becomes the 'camp'
director; Helen is the swimming counselor, and
she has a group of assistants. Similarly other
transformations take place and new handcraft
counselors appear from among the campers. The
girls have become the counselors and the coun-
selors the girls. Each plays her part to the enjoy-
ment of all. All are installed in ofhce and then the
fun begins. A visitor arriving in camp to see the
director is quite bal‘lled at first by having to con-
verse with many supposed counselors before
reaching her, but she enjoys her trip much more
because she has come to camp on the day so much
fun was in progress. '

Overnight Trips

Summer camping is not complete without an
overnight trip. Late in the afternoon ten or‘
twelve campers who wish to spend the night“
under the open sky carry their blankets and pon—
chos to the great open hall. Here they roll their
sleeping necessities in their ponchos. The blankets
are spread out on the floor and then smoothly and
evenly rolled into a long roll which can be tied
with a heavy string and thrown over the should-
ers. Just before dusk a line of movilig hgures
wind along the trail and arrive at the overnight
camping site in time to select as comfortable a
spot as possible for their beds before darkness

sets in. A great pile of wood and brush is gath-
ered ready for the morning fire. By dark the
overnight hikers, warmly dressed, have crawled
into their blankets and ponchos. A small stone or
twig under a campers bed may require a little
adjusting, but soon everyone is comfortably set-
tled for the night. A little moving or turning of
the sleepers, or perhaps the cry of a nightbird are
the only sounds until the shrill “jay!” “jay!” at
daybreak arouses everyone. \Vith a little yawn-
ing, stretching and jumping about to relieve
cramped muscles the sleepers come to life.

One group builds the fire, while others cut
sticks for making toast, prepare the cocoa, set the
table such as nature provides. How good this hot
breakfast tastes, for the morning air on the moun—
tain is thin and sharp! By nine o’clock all dishes
are packed and ponchos are thrown over their
shoulders ready to take the trail back down the
mountain side.

Such incidents are a few of the daily and
weekly events at the Camp Fire Girls Camp,
where the girls are not preparing to live but are
living. .

The fourteen days of the camp session pass
quickly, and packing for home begins foi' the one
period camper. Suit cases and boxes are filled to
overflowing with clothes, kodaks, flashlights and
other camping necessities. But there must be
found room for the new nature booklet, leather
purse, bookends, whistlecord and many other
things made in handcraft and nature classes.

The bus arrives to take the first session camp-
ers back to the city. It's a happy, tanned, husky
group of little campers that clambers into the bus.

After the baggage has been safely stowed away,

and noses counted to make sure that no one has
been left behind, the bus starts down the long
mountain side back to the city. Cheers and camp
songs ring out as the bus speeds along the high-
way, telling of good times, good campers, and the
hope that next summer they may return again to
Bear Mountain.

“I would encourage every one of you to de-
velop a new hobby,‘to cultivate hiking or garden-
ing. Go camping if you get a chance, even if you
have to put up a tent in your back yard. Hike
every chance you get. Play a game out—of—doors. if
your work is indoors. \Vatch people go camping,
hiking, gardening; play traveling, if that makes
you happy, but my advice is, ‘Get out of the grand-
stand and into the game.’ ”——Elbert K. France”.

A Community Camp

By J. M. GROVES
President

Inter—Service Clubs' Committee. Inc.
New Haven, Connecticut

IIE CITY of New Haven is attractive
T to visitors and residents not onlv be-

cause of its university atmosphere,
historic interest and the charm of its parks
and home sections, but also because in a
Fifteen-minute drive one can get out into
regions of wild beauty suggestive of the
mountains and wilderness.

In such a spot, only seven miles from
the central .Green, the service clubs of
New Haven have maintained since 1925
a well-equipped camp for boys and girls
who cannot afford to go to distant camps.
Camp Cedarcrest is open without charge
to any group'of youngsters for a one to
three nights’ stay, on application from the
group leader. Boys’ and girls’ weeks alternate
throughout the season. Day campers or picnickers
are also received in numbers, and outings of young
people and adults are encouraged when these do
not interfere with camping arrangements for the
under-privileged children for whom the camp is
primarin intended. The Civitan, Exchange, Ki-
wanis, Lions, Probus and Rotary clubs cooperate
in support of the project, the property title being
held by the Inter-Service Clubs’ Committee, Inc.

The camp site of nine acres is in the township
of Orange, a half-mile from the New Haven-
Derby turnpike. Except for an entrance parking
space and the sunny playfield, the area is heavily
wooded with hemlock, gray birch and red cedar,
and other forested tracts border it on two sides.
Entering between rough stone pillars over-arched
by unfinished cedar, one sees at first only the camp
director’s cabin under great trees beyond the open
parking area. The’ winding VVepawaug River, rich
in natural beauty and historic lore, tumbles over a
dam beyond the cabin. The dam makes a good

 

White birches. hemlocks and cedars make a beau-
tiful setting for the tents at Camp Cedarcrest

Q

swimming pool and a sand beach has been created
artificially. Upstream to the right are picnic areas
with fireplaces in open woods. Below the dam the
stream runs through a rocky ravine zigzagging
picturesquer under big hemlocks.

Facilities

Crossing the Wepawaug on.a rustic bridge built
over the dam by Exchange Club members with
their own hands, the visitor climbs a flight of
steps up the steep wooded bank to the camping
area on high and nearly level ground. If one ar-
rives near meal time, groups of campers will be
seen preparing their meal at army field kitchens
set on permanent stone arches and protected from
rain but open on all sides. The dining tables and
benches nearby are also roofed over. An
enormous ice box, donated by a Rotarian who
had used it in employes’ quarters at his brick-
yard, has room for all campers’ supplies. \Vater
taps are conveniently located. The tents are
partly shaded, partly open to sunlight from the

219

220 A COMMUNITY CAMP

adjoining playground. Permanent raised wood
floors are used with sides of wood up to the screen
wire. Pyramidal khaki tent roofs of army type
are supported by a wood frame. Each tent holds
eight cots. Six tents have so far been erected.
Tents, as well as grounds, are electric lighted, a
recent improvement all labor and materials for
which were contributed by service club members.

The athletic field was graded and seeded by the
Civitan Club which also donated a bubbler at one
side. It is large enough for soft ball. Volley ball,
quoits and “tether ball” spaces are provided near
by. A massive flag staff and memorial tablet set
in a boulder were dedicated recently as a me—
morial to Frank R. Lawrence, former principal
of the Boardman Trade School, active member of
the Lions’ Club and a great worker for the camp.
The stan is at the farther side of the play field in
a setting of stately cedars.

A sizable recreation building provides a central
hall with a large stone fireplace. At one end is a
kitchen and at the other end are two good sized
sleeping rooms used for winter camping and as
overflow space during the summer season. This
building was created by work-relief labor, the ser—
vice clubs furnishing materials, transportation and
hot lunches. It is used by campers for rainy day
recreation and evening affairs, and occasionally by
the service clubs and other adult groups.

The sanitary facilities are excellent, modern
flush toilets in adequate number being provided in
separate quarters for boys and girls, with septic
. tank disposal.

An attractive feature of the camp scene is a
large outdoor stone fireplace built by the Ex-
change Club on a sight] y point which j uts out into
the river. Nature trails follow the stream and by
courtesy of adjoining property— owners lead off
through the woods in several directions. The
\Vepawaug has all the natural “makings” of a
good brook trout stream and- still affords sport to
campers and an occasional adult angler.

Leadership

The camp has been in charge
of a resident director under
supervision of the New Haven
Recreation Commission until
this municipal bureau was dis-
continued, and is now under the
City Parks Department. It thus
becomes in a sense an extension
of New Haven’s excellent park

A number of American cities have
public vacation camps maintained
by departments of recreation. in
some cities an individual service
club is responsible for a camp.
New Haven, according to Mr.
'Groves. is the one city in which a
number of service clubs have united
to establish and support a camp
for the city's youth. Here six dif-
ferent clubs are cooperating.

system, affording the city’s needy children a
“breather” in the open country: Campers bring
food and blankets. Everything else is supplied by
the camp. If the children are unable to bring any
food or to pay their two-token fare to camp. the
need is met by the service clubs or a sponsoring
social agency. Through the American Red Cross,
150 blankets have been given for use in cases
where the home cannot spare any bedding.

Regular campers during the recent summer sea—
son, June Ist to September 3rd, numbered 1,327.
In addition, attendance of picnickers and visitors
was over 3,000 and the 'past fall and winter season
was marked by an increased amount of winter
camping.

During the past two seasons, an interesting ex-
tension of the camp’s influence has come through
the bringing to Cedarcrest of groups from the
Connecticut School for Boys, the state disciplin-
ary institution for younger boys, at Meriden.
These brief vacations, rewards for good conduct,
have been keenly enjoyed and the visitors have
been exemplary camp citizens. ‘

The camp director’s salary and the other items
of the camp budget are the direct responsibility of
the service clubs’ committee, financed by annual
appropriations from the several clubs, supple-
mentecl by special gifts. The town of Orange
abates taxes on the property, in appreciation of
this courtesy Orange young people are welcome to
swim at the camp each afternoon. In a similarly
cooperative spirit, the Orange \Vater Company
remits the water charge for showers and other
outlets. An annual inspection trip and field day
brings service club members out to see the pro-
ject they are supporting and promotes inter-club
acquaintance and good fellowship.

The close of Cedarcrest’s sixth year as a de-
veloped camp site finds the facilities made avail-
able by the New Haven service club members on

' a higher plane than evel’ before. Bit by bit these

clubs have added to the variety and completeness
of the opportunities for enjoy-
ment at the camp. Each year
sees some needed addition to the
equipment for the comfort,
safety and health of the boys
and girls who keep the wood-
lands echoing with their shouts
and laughter.

The end result is not merely
to provide a glorious vacation

(Continued on page 230)

 

WORLD AT PLAY

T H E Playground
and Recreation Com-
mission of Alton, Ill-
inois, has found most
helpful the activities of the playground dads’
clubs, mothers’ clubs, booster clubs, and young
men’s clubs associated with the playground.
Here are a few of their activities during the
year ending March 1, 1935, according to the
Commission’s annual report: Water Tower
Dads improvedlfloodlights, painted the shelter
house, secured bricks and sand for sidewalks,
purchased a slide, built a driveway and heated
-the building for the winter. Fathers at Hell-
rung put a furnace in their shelter house,
heated the building, and are completing the
structure. Milton Dads sponsored the entire
summer playground program, while Horace
Mann directed the backstop for their ball dia-
mond: Salu Park fathers furnished transporta—
tion for the children, Johnson Street aided the
directors on the ground; East End sponsored
the Sunday program and helped build a stor-
age building, and the young men’s clubs at all
of the centers helped in every way possible to
improve conditions.

Playground Clubs Serve
Their Communities

ONE of the activi-
ties of the Cincin-
nati, Ohio, P u b l i c
Recreation Commis4
sion is the teaching of golf. During February,
1.190 different Cincinnatians took beginner’s
golf lessons. Of this number 420 were adults con-

Instruction in Sports

Meets Need

nected with commercial concerns and 770 were
students in attendance at three public and
three parochial high schools. Six hundred and
five residents of the city had instruction in be-
ginner’s tennis.

THE Safford, Ari—
zona, municipal park
and swimming pool
project was initiated
in November, 1933, as a CWA project, with a
local American Legion Post sponsoring the
construction. The four acre tract of land in
connection with the pool and park was donated
by the Graham County Board of Supervisors
to the Swift-Murphy Post of the American
Legion, and an allotment of $25,500 was ap—
proved by the CWA for the construction of
the pool and park. On April 1, 1934, the pool
was incomplete when orders were received to
stop work under the CWA. Through the State
ERA a sum of $2,688 for labor to complete the
project was secured. The local American Le-
gion Post raised $1,750 to buy necessary mate-
rials, and the pool was opened July 1, 1934.
Located in a desert country, it was necessary
to develop a water supply by underground
pumping. Fortunately a never ending supply
of water was encountered at the shallow depth
of .40 feet directly in the location of the pool
which is easily emptied by an underground
passage to the park where the surplus water
is used to water the lawn. As water is very
scarce, it is necessary to conserve all the avail-

-.- 221

A New Swimming
Pool in Arizona

222 WORLD AT PLAY

able supply. The pool measures 50 by 100 feet
and ranges in depth from 3 to 11 feet. The only
swimming pool available for approximately
10,000 people; during the past year it was
patronized by 400 boys and girls each twenty-
four hours.

A Pet and Hobby Show in Ann Arbor—On
April 26th the Kiwanis Club of Ann Arbor,
Michigan, sponsored a pet and hobby show at
the Yost Field House. There were three de—
partments—(a) collections; (b) crafts and arts,
including handicraft and household arts; (cl
pets. Special features included demonstrations
of workmanship in arts and crafts held during
the day and an exhibition of the stunts and
tricks of the pets.

Public Forums in Springfield—A very inter-
esting series of forums have been conducted in
Springfield, Massachusetts, under the auspices
of the American Association,for Adult Educa-
tion. More than 1,000 people attend each of the
discussions which have to do with social, poli-
tical, economic and cultural conditions. A pre—
sentation of some of the phases of Russian life
and literature filled the municipal auditorium.

Summer Schools in Detroit—This summer
the Board of Education of Detroit, Michigan,
is opening a number of summer schools as an
expansion of non—credit, non—promotion or
leisure—time activities. In this division there
will be no set course of study, no program, no
rigid entrance requirements, no grading or test—
ing, and attendance will be left entirely to the
pupil. Groups of twenty-five will be formed
on a basis of grade age, for one, two or three
periods per day, at a charge of $4.00 per period
through eight weeks. There will be play
schools for pupils from kindergarten through
grade 8 with programs made up of music and
dramatization, hikes, games, supervised play,
hand work, art, nature study, trips, readings,
penmanship and spelling, and story—telling.

Hobby and exploratory classes will be or-
ganized in schools listing grades 9 upwards
where the summer school principal can obtain
use of suitable rooms and facilities. Among
the projects contemplated are art, dramatics,
wood work, clothing, foods, chemistry, type—
writing, gymnasium play or outdoor games.
Music classes in band or orchestras and instru-
ments of the orchestra including violins, will be

formed in nine schools. The cost per subject
will be $2.00.

Picnic Activities—A. E. Center, Director of
Recreation, Pontiac, Michigan, writes that the
Department of Recreation has available addi—
tional copies of an eight page mimeographed
statement on picnic organization and activities.
He will be glad to send copies to anyone remit—
ting six cents in stamps. Mr. Center may be
addressed care of the Department of Recrea-
tion, Pontiac. .

A Splendid Legacy—The National Recrea—
tion Association congratulates the National
Playing Fields Association of Great Britain on

the receipt of a £10,000 legacy from Lord
Rirldell.

A Visit from Seumas MacManus—The Cin-
cinnati, Ohio, Public Recreation Commission
with the Cincinnati Story League sponsored a
visit from.Seumas MacManus, the great Irish
poet, humorist, story-teller and playwright. A
lecture and story—telling hour was held for four
nights—April 29th-May 2nd. In addition, Mr.
rfacManus spoke and told stories at four high
schools and one of the literary clubs. “\Ve were
simply fascinated,” writes Miss Mabel Mad-
den, Supervisor of Community Activities, “by
his stories and his manner of telling them.”

The Hobby Round-Up—From May lst to
11th, Commerce Hall, Port Authority Building,
New York City, was the scene of an interesting
Hobby Round-Up held under the auspices of the
Leisure League of America of which James S.
Stanley is president. There were hobbies of all
kinds presented and a number of organizations
had exhibits. One of the most interesting sec-
tions ,of the exhibit was that showing the hobbies
of a number of outstanding citizens.

The New Leisure

(Continued from page 189)

“Tlot-tlot, tlot-tlot! Had they heard? The horse—hoofs
ringing clear;

Tlot—tlot, tlot—tlot, in the distance? \Vere they deaf that
they did not hear?

Down the ribbon of moonlight, over the brow of the hill,

The highway man came riding, riding, riding,

The red-coats looked to their priming! She stood up
straight and still ;”

can know the deep joy and fulfillment which life
holds for a human being.

THE Nli'W LEISURE 223

But it is through religion that the deepest aspi—
rations of man are released.‘ If recreation is a way
of life, then religion is the acme of it.

Churches are the natural social centers. I
dropped in one evening recently to see a Catholic
priest who is a dear friend of mine. I found a
crowd of men playing bridge with the priest, play—
ing with the best of them. In contrast I recall the
church of my boyhood, a place for long and
solemn faces. I laughed once in Sunday—school
and was severely rebuked by my teacher. Now
we know that the church-house is a place for joy
and happiness. I believe that an association should
be established between wonder and reverence and
joyousness. Such habits formed during formative
years remain through life.

During the Christmas holidays the students at
Park School dramatized the old story of the ring-
ing of the chimes which epitomized for me the
relationship between school, play and worship.
During the last act the assembly room, almost by
a miracle it seemed, was transformed into a
cathedral with glowing windows, robed choir and
resplendent altar. A little child stumbled toward
the altar with her gift of pennies and then the
chimes rang. Somehow, it caught up beauty and
worship into a chalice.

The church is also much concerned with leisure
because, as Rabbi Hillel Silver has pointed out,
the church knows that there can be no culture, no
civilization, hardly religion itself without leisure.
Culture requires leisure. What people do with
their leisure is important. Are they amusing
themselves simply, or are they enriching lives. A

deeper spiritual being comes from the creative
use of leisure.

When You're Making Tin Can Toys

(Continued from .0an 191)

Drop small pieces of self fluxing solder on the in-
side of the spout where it meets the can, holding
the can in a horizontal position. Apply heat from
an alcohol lamp along the outside of the spout‘
until the solder flows; turn the can over and re—
peat the operation along the other edge of the
spout. It is possible to make a very neat joint by
this method. A lid can easily be made by using

the top of a larger can with a handle soldered to
the top of this lid.

A Sand Bucket

A very acceptable sand bucket can be made
from a No. 2% can, or a larger size if desired, by

 

DEVICES THAT ENDURE

NDURING strength and utmost safety are designed and
built into all Louden Equipment. Here. at modest costI
is a large and varied line of playground. beach, pool and
gym equipment . . . many items of exclusive Louden design.
Long experienced engineers will gladly give recommenda-
tions, specifications and estimates covering the requirements

LOUDEN

of your location. A new tree bool:
full of interesting and valuable
information is iust off the press.

PLAYGROUND
today. EQUIPMENT

J.E.PORTER CORPORATION

A copy is yours for aslting. Write

 

120 BROADWAY - OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

soldering wire loops to receive the handle the
same as described for the stew kettle, the handle

to be made from a piece of wire from a coat
hanger.

To accompany this bucket a scoop made from
a smaller can is desirable. To make this scoop,
sketch with a pencil on the outside of the can a
line where you wish to cut away the tin. This
should be an even flowing curved line. The best
tool, and really the only tool, I have found to cut
this curved line around the can is what I call a
pair of duck-bill snips. (Those I have are
branded Pexto.) After this cut has been made the
sharp edge should be taken off with a file. Now
make a handle of a proper size by the same
method as that previously described and solder

the handle to the end of this scoop or what was
the bottom of the can.

A Toy Roaster

A very realistic toy roaster like the one in the
illustration can be made from two small sardine
cans. Make handles as described for the stew
kettle and shown in detail A so that the handles
on the top half of the roaster fit neatly inside the

224 AMONG OUR FOLKS

 

You Will Enioy
THE CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY

A Journal of Community Religion
RICHARD E. SHIELDS, Editor

BUILDS COMMUNITY GOODWILL

Contributing Editors: Frederick B. Fisher, Burris
Jenkins, Orvis F. Jordan, W. J. Lhamon, N. A. McCunc,
Joseph Mycrs,, E. Tallmadgc Root, John R. Scotford, R.
Carl Stoll, Alva W. Taylor, Carl S. Weist.

How to Unite Churches . . . The Communty Church
Movement . . . Vital News . . . Religious Digest
ILLUSTRATED

One Year $1.00 Three Years $2.50

Published by

THE COMMUNITY CHURCH WORKERS.U.S.A.

'77 West Washington Street. Chicago

 

handles on the lower half. The top half may also
have a handle such as shown in the illustration,
which should be made in the same way as the
handle to the lid of the stew kettle.

These toys when coated with enamel are very
attractive. The inside should be either white or
aluminum. As the .so-called “tin” from which
cans are made is nothing more than thin steel with
a thin coating of tin they will rust where the tin
is worn off or scratched, unless coated with some
material. There are, however, three or more
grades of tin, and the better cans such as are used
by one concern in putting up pop corn have a very
durable coating of tin.

Something About Marionettes

and Their History
(Continued from huge 193)

Their great vogue, together with this apparent
leniency'on the part of the Church, did not at all
add to their popularity with the actors on the le-
gitimate stage, who looked down on the puppets
and called them “miseries, both dangerous and
demoralizing.” The legitimate stage actors were
jealous of the puppets because they thought their
proceeds were being reduced through competition,
and their dislike hnally became too strong for the
puppets to combat, clever as the puppets were at
defending themselves with biting satires at the
expense of the actors. In England the company
of Drury Lane demanded the puppet theatres be
closed, while in France the actors succeeded in
driving the puppet showmen to the markets in the
Parisian suburbs. Due to the actors, puppet show-
men were not permitted to produce plays with
dialogue; only monologues were allowed, and
even they could not be spoken in the natural voice,

Among Our Folks

FRIENDS of Clark W. Hetherington will all re-
joice to hear that on June 8th he received the
honorary degree of Doctor of Pedagogy from the
University of 'Southern California.

On June 10th Dorothy Enderis, Assistant to
Superintendent in Charge of Extension Depart-
ment, Milwaukee Public Schools, received an
honorary 1\I.A. degree from Lawrence College,

‘ Appleton, Wisconsin. In conferring the degree

Dr. \Vriston said:

“Because you have brought to the increasingly
signihcant problem of leisure activity profound
sympathy, prophetic vision, administrative skill
and great wisdom, we are glad to recognize your
achievements, and by the authority vested in me
I confer upon you the degree of Master of Arts,
honoris causa, and admit you to all its rights and
privileges.”

In April, after twenty-hve years of continuous
service in the playground movement of Hamilton,
Canada, Charles Peebles retired from active serv-
ice. Members of the Recreation Commission pre-
sented him with an illuminated address thanking
him on behalf of the mothers, fathers and chil-
dren of the City of Hamilton for work well done.
From 1911 to 1931 Mr. Peebles held office as
secretary, as treasurer, as vice-president and as
president of the Hamilton Playground Associa-
tion and from that date to 1935 as chairman of
the Playground Commission which replaced the
Playground Association. Mr. Peebles was elected
an honorary life member of the Commission.

Mrs. Chester G. Marsh, formerly director of

'the VVestchester County \Vorkshop maintained by

the \Vestchester County Recreation Commission
in the County Building at White Plains, New
York, has resigned that position to serve as Di-
rector of Arts and Crafts for the Girl Scouts, be-
ginning June hrst. Mrs. Marsh was connected

' with the Westchester County Recreation Com-

mission for twelve years, being its hrst executive.
For five years she directed the Workshop.

 

 

but had to be distorted by means of the “sifHet
pratique.” This is a small, flat whistle, held be-
tween the roof of the mouth and the tongue, and
even today, some modern Punch and Judy show-
men use this method to impart the squeaky fal-
setto voice associated with Punch. There is always
the danger that this whistle may be swallowed in
the excitement of a tense moment, even by the
most proficient!

SEAMAN F. NORTHRUP 225

Seaman F. Northrup

Judge SEAMAN F. NORTHRUP, who died in May,
for ten years served as a district representative
of the National Recreation Association. Cheerful
and courageous at all times, he gave himself un—
stintingly to his work. No one could persuade
him to limit his hours or conserve his strength.
and every power he had was completely dedicated
to his tasks. He cared profoundly for the national

recreation movement.

 

Oriental Marionettes

Oriental marionettes are so beautiful and so
interesting that it is difficult to know iust what to
say about them. Perhaps one of the most inter-
esting groups are the marionettes of Japan. This
country had no theatre before the advent of the
Inarionettes, about 1660 A. D., when the first pup—
pet theatre in Japan was established. They did
have the beautiful “NO” plays, but these were
semi—histOrical-religious dramas, presented in the
'language of the court, and far above the under-
standing of the common people. After the advent
of the puppet theatre, which was Under the pa-
tronage of a powerful and wealthy Prince, the
legitimate theatre in Japan was developed. Na-
tionally famous poets wrote dramas for the pup-
pets, and great painters decorated the stages and
scenery. The costumes, make—up, dramatizations
and stage conventions as created then by the mari—
onettes were so perfect that they have been
handed down intact and form the basis of the
legitimate Japanese drama of today whose human
actors adopted the perfection established by the
puppets. The Japanese puppets are about one-
third life—size and each figure is worked by three
operators. The chief operator is dressed in verv
beautipr robes, and it is considered quite an honor
to become one. He works the head and the right
hand, while his two assistants, clothed in black,
with black hoods over their faces, work the left
hand and the feet. In his book. iVlzile Rome
Burns, Alexander Wolcott tells of the dexterity
of the Japanese puppet-manipulators, and in the
Christmas issue of the London Illustrated News
for 1931, there is an interesting and profusely
illustrated article on marionettes in Japan.

3

NOTE: This is a colyyrighted article.

 

N O D U ST
l0 Endanger Health

. . . or mar Pleasure

 

0 Dust is unsanitary under any circum-
stances but is particularly obiection-
able where children play. Modern
playgrounds use SOLVAY Calcium
Chloride to eliminate dust positively
and inexpensively and give children a
firm, compact playing surface.

Furthermore, S 0 LV A Y Calcium
Chloride kills germs. Its effective
germicidal action has won the un-
qualified endorsement of physicians
and playground directors.

Solvay Calcium Chloride is positively
harmless. does not track or stain.
Easin applied. Just spread evenly
over the surface. That's all. Nature
does the rest.

IOO conveniently located shipping
points assure prompt delivery and
minimum transportation charges.
Write for full information and prices.

8 0 LVAY

TRADE MARK REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.

Calcium Chloride
SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

Alkalies and Chemical Products Manufactured by
The Solvay Process Conwany

40 RECTOR STREET NEW YORK
BRANCH OFFICES:

Boston Indianapolis Cleveland Pittsburgh

Chlcago _ Kansas City Detroit St. Louls

Cincmnati Philadelphia Houston Syracuse

 

226 ' M A CA Z I NE 5 AND PA M PH LE T5

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 1
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, June 1935
Progress and Problems in Health and Phys1cal Edu—

. cation Among Colored Americans, by Edwin B.

Henderson

The Influence of School Training on Leisure-Time
Activities, by C. L. Brownell

New Features in Gymnasium Planning, George A.
Hagen

How I Instruct My Tennis Classes, by Mary K.
Browne

Parks and Recreation, June 1935
"Wyoming’s George Washington Memorial Parks, by
Harold L. Curtiss
The Forestry Building at Portland

Leisure, June 1935
New Hampshire Encourages Handicrafts, by Thelma

B rackett

Tips for Tennis Tyros, by Davis Humphrey
New Light on An Old Craft, by Edward “7. Frentz
A Game for Children, by C. A. Byers

The National Parent—Teacher Magazine, June 1935
The President’s Message——-A Wise Use of Leisure,
by Mary L. Langworthy
Recreation on the Family Plan, by Marian Warren
Moore

The Parents’ Magazine, June 1935

Leisure and Libraries, An Editorial by Beatrice Saw—
yer Rossell a

A New Angle on Camping by R. Alice Drought,
Ph.D.

Play in Your Backyard, Iby Grace E. Batchelder

A Happy Vacation Spent at Home, by Florence
Smith Vincent

Let’s Give a Party

American Childhood, June 1935
\Vhat Shall We Play This Summer?'by Nina B.
Lamkin

The Sportswoman, May 1935
Stunt and Formation Swimming, by Gertrude Goss
Swimming and \Vaterfront Safety, by Marjorie
Camp

0;

PAMPHLETS

Picnic Bulletin, Department of Public Recreation, Read-
ing, Pa.

Des Moines Playground and Recreation Commission An—
nual Report 1934

Construction and Maintenance of Baseball Fields, by Clar-

ence F. \Valtz
Bulletin No. 7—The Athletic Institute, Inc., 1712
Republic Building, Chicago, Ill.

Famous Places in the United States
Swimming
Natural Scenes of the United States

Obtainable from Frederic J. Haskin, \Vashington,
D. C., at 10 cents each

Biennial Report of the Milwaukee County Park Commis-
sion and Milwaukee County Regional Planning Dept.

1931-32. Court House, Milwaukee, \Vis.

Annual Report of the Minnesota Emergency Relief Ad-
ministration, Recreational and Leisure Time Depart-

ment, 1934-35

Leisure in Our Time-——A Survey of Recreational Oppor-
tunities in Delaware County, Pennsylvania, 1934
Prepared under the joint auspices of the Delaware
County Park Board and the Delaware County
Welfare Council.

Annual Report of the Board of Park Commissioners,
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, 1934

Municipal Recreation, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1934

Educational Activities Promoting the Worthy Use of
Leisure Time.

Los Angeles City School District. Special Bulletin
No. 89

Report of the Boston Park Department Competitive
Sports Program, 1934

Report of the Recreation Commission of Portland, Maine,

1934

First Annual Report of the Department of Public Recre-
reation of Winston—Salem, N. C., 1934-1935

The Boy Scout and His Hobbies

(Continued from page 195)

strength of his skill, experience, study and in-
tense interest in these two subjects that he won
his chance at great adventure. Hobbies some-
times take one farther than one’s dreams, pay bet-
ter than one would ever fancy they could or
would.

At the Jamboree

Next August some 30,000 or 40,000 Scouts will
assemble in an immense encampment in \Vashing-
ton, living in tents almost in the shadow of the
Monument. The occasion is the celebration of the
Silver Anniversary Year of Scouting, marking
the completion of twenty-five years’ history in the
making in America. These Scout delegates from
all over the country will be selected for their out-
standing qualifications and records in Scout ex-
perience.

Most of them will be Life, Star or Eagle
Scouts, the higher ranks in Scouting, standing for
arduous training in advanced Merit Badge sub-
jects, hobbyists all. 1

Among the more spectacular and formal phases.
of the program which will be scheduled during
this gigantic Jamboree it will be safe to say that
innumerable unofficial confabs will be held. Who
knows how much stimulating hobby chat will go
on, what stimulating exchanges of views as to
whys and hows 0f hobbies will accompany these
tent Hap conferences between individuals or
groups? “7 hat a wealth of new ideas, healthy en-
thusiasm and fresh breath of life these representa-
tives of Scouting will have to take back to their
home Troops when it is all over! How the more—
and-better-hobbies horse will rock!

PLAYING INDIAN WITH A PURPOSE

These Boy Scouts of today will be the crafts-
men and creators, the business and professional
men of tomorrow. Even if these early interests
of theirs do not chance to lead directly to their
life work, there can be no doubt that they will
pursue their chosen careers no less ably and pro-
fitably because in their youth they listened to the
neigh of the hobby horse on the wind, and more
than likely will go on listening in their maturer
leisure hours, still follow the delightful lure of
clattering hoofs, down many an intriguing by-
path, leading to many a rich and green pasture of
practically limitless expanse.

He who has once hugged a hobby to his heart,
or better still, more than one, is never likely to
know the irk of boredom. He has always at his
command an inexhaustible source both of recrea-
ation and creation. He who learns young to pour
more of himself into life, will find that life will
reward him richly, prove a miraculous pitcher,
“chock full” of health and happiness, a well
earned increment of pleasure and profit.

Playing lndian With a Purpose
(Continued from page 198)

Rituals—Ceremonies—Plays—Pageants

There are endless possibilities in the program
and every opportunity to present unusual pageants
and rituals following the preliminary work. One
need mention only a display of craftsmanship,
decorated teepees, bizarre costumes, rhythmic
dances, a corn festival dance, perhaps a game of
lacrosse, a flaming arrow ceremony, a ritual when
tribal names are given, and many other ceremon—
ies. Opportunities without end are offered by the

program to pageant the unusual, the interesting
and the impressionable.

A Brief Bibliography
Omaha Tribal Games and Dances, Alice Fletcher
Rhythm of the Red Man, Seton
How of the Indian, Parker .
Indian Boole, Julian Harris Salamon
Indian Sign Language, \Villiam Tompkins
My Life With the Indians, Schultz
Indian Bead ll”orh, American Museum of Natural His-
tory, New York City ($.35)

I ndianlor’e (A pamphlet), Cheley, 600 Steele Street, Den-
ver, Colorado

Books by Dr. Charles Eastman

Books by Smithsonian Institute, Dr. Charles Eastman

(Several books and pamphlets of interest)
'c

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
    
  
   
 
   
   
 

 

Merry-Wave-Stride

Fully covered by patents which in—
clude the many exclusive safety fea-
tures, this Merry-Wave-Stride insures
complete safety to the children in your
parks and recreation grounds. Ever-
Wear Merry-Wave-Stride gives more
action and exercise than any piece of
equipment ever made.

Before you make the selection of any
new equipment, you owe it to your
children to install the safest equip-
ment . . . your choice can be no Other

than EverWear’s Patented Stride. Ask

us for complete details.

Use Spring Rubber Safety
Seats For Your Swings

An ingenious ar-
rangement of rub-
ber and steel. pat-
ented by EverWear.
which eliminates
all the hazards of
former type swing
seats. This EverWear seat is soft. springy.
resilient, has remarkable safety features.
strength and durability. Priced low enough
to meet your budgets. Write us for details.

Our complete new catalog is

available without obligation.
Ask for it.

SpringfieldI Ohio. U. S. A.

The World's oldest and largest exclusive maker

of playground. beach and pool apparatus: a
complete line of the SAFEST and most DURA-
BLE recreation apparatus made.

 

EverWear Offers the Safest

The EverWear Mfg. Co.

  

228 “BOYS AND GIRLS TOGETHER”

That Summer Playground
Progrgm!

0 Have you secured your copy
of “Planning Summer Playground
Programs”?

Whether you are a beginner in
playground leadership or a more
experienced worker you will find
this pamphlet valuable, so com-
prehensive is it in its discussion of
the activities comprising the play-
ground program and the principles
involved in planning.

Sample daily, weekly and sum-
mer schedules help make this an

unusually practical and useful
publication.

Price $.25

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue
New York City

"Boys and Girls Together"
(Continued from page 202)

What Boys and Girls Themselves Want

All these things, of course, are but straws in
the wind, and we must make every effort to find
out what boys and girls want: themselves. They
do not really know, but they love new experiences
and they love to discuss and they are pathetically
eager to find some clues out of the maze.

The Dean of \Vomen of Syracuse University
asked 203 freshman girls to name the problems
they faced outside the classroom, for which they
felt they had been inadequately prepared before
entering college. Their replies, briefly summar—

ized, were as follows:

Social experience
Taste in dress

Boy friends
Habits of neatness

How to converse Making decisions

Living away from home Use of money
Health and personal hygiene Sex knowledge

The boys and girls of a Los Angeles high
school decided that they lacked experience in
social practices and procedures. So they built a
guest house, in which they entertain each other
and their friends. Many a Girl Scout “Little
House." of which there are now hundreds
throughout the country, furnishes a similar in-
formal social training.

One of the things that boys and girls need

cruelly to learn is to finish what they have begun.
Too often they undertake something far beyond
their skill and capacity and leave it half done
when interest lags Under unexpected difficulties.
Here is where wise older people can be of the
utmost help in tactfully supplying needed training
and thus stiffening character.

It is not easy to know what can be done for
boys and girls under the present hard and con-
fused conditions of modern life. But somehow
they must be helped toward adequate and adjusted
living, socially, economically, and emotionally.
Perhaps we shall come to what \Villiam James
urged so long ago in his Moral Equivalent of
iVar, a period of compulsory work service for all
young people, like—and yet how unlike-—what is
now being so harshly carried on in Germany. If
we ever do, it will be not merely a period of
work but also a period of vocational direction,
further education and true recreation.

NOTE: As this issue of the magazine goes to press an-
nouncement is made of the formation of the National
Youth Administration, created by executive order of
President Roosevelt for the following purposes: to find
employment for jobless youth; to train and retrain for
industrial, technical and professional empIOyment op—
portunities; to provide work relief on projects designed
to meet the needs of youth, and to provide for continu-
ing attendance at high school and college. $50,000,000 has

been allocated for the project.

Chicago Makes Her Preparations

for the Recreation Congress
(Continued from page 205)
a basic element in any recreation program. But
the youth of thirty years ago had not been reared
to the constant hum of the machine; it was still

the day of hand tools. There was no call for the

.exercise and deveIOpment of patient application in

the arts and crafts. for which there was little .time
after release,from work. School playgrounds of
that day were not the ‘centers of youthful indus—
try which they have since become under our
Board of Education. The instructors of that time
might well devot‘: themselves to personal instruc-
tion of their charges individually, and give less of
thought to affording opportunity for self-leader—
ship and the organization of a functioning democ-
racy in leagues and tournaments. Recreation was
then a matter of relaxation after work. Now we
are thinking of it the world over as the major
business of living, when we are released from
compulsion and freed to make an art of living.

Many Demonstrations Will Be Offered
The demonstrations planned for this year's

1

CHICAGO MAKES HER PREPARA TIONS FOR THE CONGRESS 229

Congress will differ from those of 1907 as the
program of today varies from that of thirty
years ago. There will be demonstrations by hob-
byists of the city of the processes by which they

create their products, step by step. Boys will be
there making planes; their mothers will be demon-

strating weaving; their grandmothers will be en-
gaged in needle point, embroidery, lace-making or
quilting. Grandfather will be there demonstrat—
ing some of his special end-plays in chess, in the
solving of puzzles in checkers. Perhaps he will
outline the basic strategy of the game of Halma,
or show how to take the defensive side of the

game of fox and geese successfully. Sister will,

make a puppet, a doll or a Hallowe’en mask be:
fore the eyes of delegates, and her brother’s
young bride may well be there engaged in block-
printing of drapes for her new home or in pat-
terning Batiks for some article of wearing ap-
parel or some domestic wall hanging. All of the
fundamentals of a manual craft or hobby pro-
gram will be demonstrated, not alone in produc-
tion, but also in the processes of making those
products from inexpensive material.

The National Recreation Association is plan-
ning also to intersperse with the program proper
brief, thumb-nail sketches of community music
numbers, of dramatics and presentation of the
arts as elements of the newer sort of recreation
activities.

Technically too, the plans call for consultation.
Nearby systems as well as those of Chicago will
bring to the Congress their planners, architects
and technical experts in general. If a delegate
wishes to consu1t with a technical man on the de-
sign, construction and filtration of a new swim—
ming pool, he can make an appointment and be-
fore him he can lay his blue prints for advice.
Field trips are planned rather than spectacular
programs, in order that the delegates in attend-
ance may see the programs going on in their com-
munity, with club groups in action. Buildings
may be inspected and studied on the ground and
plans and lay-outs examined not alone in the lay-
out of the original ground of the turn of the cen—
tury, but in the latest and most evolved develop-
ment of the city.

Chicago will eagerly await its opportunity to
display all that we have learned here in the city
and will be on the alert for the critical observa-
tions or suggestions for improvement which we
expect to receive from visitors, advising us as to
ways in which still better-results may be achieved.

 

PUT °
DIAMONDS

'ON YOUR
PLAYGROUND

Equip your playground with Dia-
mond Pitching Horseshoes and
accessories. The line is popular
with amateurs and professionals
alike. Diamond products need little
replacing. Shoes are drop forged
steel—will neither chip nor break.
\Vrite for new catalog P. S. 1.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
46|0 Grand Avenue. Duluth, Minn.

 

 

 

 

How One City Acquired Play Areas
(Continued from page 208)

last two months, a large part of the next payment,
which is not due until summer.

Undoubtedly the group of men who bought the
original tract would have purchased this land, as

well, but we felt that it was far better strategy to

have the people of the neighborhood buy their
own playground than to have a few wealthy men

do it. The effect on the city fathers would be
quite different.

We hope that we can persuade the Council to
include the whole amount in the budget this
spring, but if the city does not buy the land this
year we are confident that it will in the near future.
In the meantime we shall have the use of the land
and the Association has proved to the city at large
that the people of the First \Vard are solidly be-
hind the recreation program.

NOTE: As a happy ending to this story word reaches

us as this article goes to press, that the Council has pur-
chased the fourteen greatly desired lots.

230 THE PLACE OF DRAMA IN RECREATION

Musicin a Public Recreation Department
(Continued from page 210)

The outstanding example of coordination of
these different projects is the work being carried
on at the National Catholic Community House.
Here is being conducted what amounts to a set-
tlement school of music using leaders from both
the Emergency Schools and the Emergency Re-
lief Administration. The activities include a com-
munity orchestra, piano classes for children and
adults, classes for violin and guitar, a glee club, a
minstrel group, classes in sight singing and voice
instruction. Other such centers could be organiz-
ed if the facilities were made as freely available.

The all important questions as to how effective
is the program, how far a Public Recreation Com-
mission should go in the field of music, to what
level it should confine its efforts, the writer is
constrained from answering. \Ve will presume,
however, to say quite frankly that we have faith
in its basic soundness, while recognizing that
others might differ with us in detail or approach
to the problem.

The Place of Drama in Recreation
(Continued from page 213)

pool and probably centered around the pool.
Aside from these big productions there is always
a little play in rehearsal on every ground and
drama is a well established activity. "

One of the most delightful outdoor theatres in
the east can be found in Bloomfield, New Jersey.
This theatre was built on one of the playgrounds
with relief funds and gave work to a group of
the town’s unemployed. In Bloomfield, Miss Ruby
Oscarson has trained her own directors and will
conduct the fifth playground tournament this sum-
nier. Material of high quality is used and it is
not unusual to find the plays of such excellent
authors as Stuart Walker, Rachel Field and Con-
stance Mackay on the tournament programs.

In encouraging you to sponsor a drama pro-
gram I can’t over emphasize the fact that there is
talent everywhere, especially among children. The
schools haven’t the time to take over the task of
giving them well organized formal drama and a
great opportunity is thus left for the recreation
department. Leadership is the great need. But so
many successful programs have been developed by
training leaders within the department that I think
it is safe to say that there is no community where
it is not possible to develop leaders and that there
is no community where drama cannot be success-

fully included in the program.

Blue Mound Banishes the

Depression Blues
(Continued from page 215)

The Programs

Programs were developed through the help of
the schools and other organizations. There was an
operetta by the high school, athletic exhibitions
under the direction of the high school athletic
coach, tap dancing and music under the super-
vision of the music director of the schools, plays
by the Community Players, a full sized minstrel
show in black face with a cast of forty, every
member a farmer from the neighborhood except
the interlocutor who is a hardware merchant in
the village, a German band, an Old Fiddlers’ con-
test, folk dancing by trained groups, individual
and glee club singing—all by local people. The
master of ceremonies is the manager of an oil sta-
tion. The leader of the band is a hardware
merchant and the bandsmen are business and pro-
fessional men and farmers of the community.

The social value of the project is incalculable.
In spite of the continued bad economic conditions
the habit of glooming about it has been cast off in
Blue Mound.

The whole project was born in desperation and
in the belief that the community was not serving
itself when it sat about twiddling its thumbs,
wearing sackcloth and ashes and moaning about
the economic situation. Working for entertain-
ment for each other, making one evening a week a
genuine community holiday, with the occupation
of preparing for it together, did the trick.

The community is proud of itself instead of
beingisorry for itself. Members of it know each
other better than they have ever known each other
before and they have shown that good wholesome
fun, created by the community is not only good
for them but extraordinarily attractive to others
who came from alltparts of central Illinois in
thousands to attend the entertainments so freely
offered and so Well done.

A Community Camp

(Continued from page 220)
for thousands of needy youngsters. It is a genu-

ine service for the business and professional men
who make up the service clubs to identify' them-
selves in this constructive way with the satisfying
of a fundamental need of youth. They get a
deeper thrill than the youngsters when they go
out and see and hear groups of happy campers
rollicking through these wild acres.

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Finger Painting

By Ruth Faison Shaw. Little, Brown and Company,
Boston. $2.50.

INC-ER PAINTING is the result of Miss Shaw’s quest

for improved methods of educating children at her
private school in Rome. After long experimentation she
discovered the formula of a firm. clayey paint which
when mixed with water could be easily manipulated by a
child’s finger and was absolutely harmless. Finger paints
are now in use in over 125 schools. Finger painting is
a part of the curricula of summer camps. It is recog-
nized as one of the most valuable modern developments
in the training of children. The book contains some inter-
esting reproductions of paintings done 'by children be-
tween the ages of two and a half and thirteen years.

Tap Dances for School and Recreation

By Anne Schley Duggan. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $2.50.

HE USE of tap dancing in the school and recreation

program is becoming increasingly popular and the
routines offered in this book have been particularly de-
signed for this purpose, varying from short, simple
dances for the real beginner to full length, diliicult rou—
tines for the more advanced enthusiast. The book also
includes several rhythm ‘buc_k_ routines, a type of dancing
recently popularized. Through adaptation of the rou-
tines to well known melodies, as well as original compo—
sitions, the author has made her material doubly useful.
It should be noted that this book is a supplement to the
author's first book on the same subject.

The Cufriculum in Sports (Physical
Education\

By Seward C. Staley, Ph.D. W. B. Saunders Company,
Philadelphia. $2.50.

NTENDED to serve two purposes—(1) for use as a text-

book in classes studying the curriculum in sports and
(2) for the use of teachers conducting sports curricula—
this book is woven about one central idea, namely, that
the curriculum in sports should be organized and con-
ducted according to standardized educational theories
and practices. Physical educators and recreation workers
will rbe interested in Dr. Staley’s conclusion that there is
not and cannot be a separate and distinct physical educa-
tion that the phase of education, now called physical
education is sports education. He further suggests that
it would be advantageous to abandon the title of physical
education and adopt that of sports education. Whatever
the title used, however, the practices and principles ad-
vanced in the book are equally applicable.

Let’s Make a Book

By Harriet H. Shoen. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $.75.

Bovs AND GIRLS are introduced in this small book to the

fun of book making. First there are the easy books
-——scrap books, photograph albums, baby picture books
and other ideas for rainy days at home. Then follow
clear directions for making a real book, with suggestions
for rebinding old favorite books.

Team Sports for Women

By Alice W. Frymir and Marjorie Hillas. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $3.00.

BASEBALL, basketball, field hockey, soccer, Speedxball and

volley ball are the six sports selected for a thorough
analysis of techniques and plays. Each sport is analyzed
as follows: General statement of game; individual tech-
nique; offensive individual play; defensive individual
play; offensive and defensive team tactics; and players
and their positions. Sample examinations and selected
references are given for each sport, and information on
oliiciating and methods is included.

The Arts of Leisure

By Marjorie Barstow Greenbie. Whittlesey House, Mc-
Graw-Hill Book Company, Inc., New York. $2.50.

HERE IS a book for vacation reading when you can

take time really to enjoy a delightful and stimulating
philosophizing on the many arts which go into the su-
preme art of living. You will learn something of the
charm and grace leisure hours may take on, and you will
discover how life may 'be made more enjoyable through
the arts of conversation, reading, loaling, going places,
letter-writing, song, decoration. making things, growing

things, and many other activities. You cannot afford
to miss this book.

On Soap Sculpture

By$1Lgoster Gaba. Henry Holt and Company, New York.

IF YOUR hobby is soap sculpture or if you want to learn

how to go about it, this is a book you must have! It
will give you complete instructions on means and meth-
ods; actual patterns and diagrams of objects to be
carved; hints about subjects and how special results may
be obtained, and directions for a soap carving party.
There are photographs which range from the various
stages of the actual carving of a Scottie to the finished

groups which have been used for many national adver-
tising campaigns.

23]

232 NElV PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Social Work Year Book 1935.
Edited by Fred S. Hall. Russell Sage Foundation,
New York. $4.00.

The Social Hr'ork Year Book, published biennially, em-
braces more than social 'work itself. The volume is there-
fore subtitled “A Description of Organized Activities in
Social \Vork and in Related Fields.” Activities and
agencies are regarded as related if their executives or
other staff members are significantly associated with
social workers in performing the tasks for which either
group is responsible. For information within its scope
the Year Book is a concise encyclopedia, periodically re-
vised. Nearly all articles in the present issue indicate
briefly thc effect of the current economic depression, but
their chief purpose is to describe the included activities
in the form in which they were organized at the end of
1934. Part I contains a large number of articles con—
tributed by leading social workers and carefully classi-
fied. Part II is a directory of 413 national and interna-
tional agencies, public and private, 526 public state agen~

cies and 51 state-wide private agencies.

Leisure Time Directory—Chicago 1935.
Chicago Recreation Commission, 1634 Burnham
Building.

The Chicago Recreation Commission as one of its first
pieces of work has compiled a Leisure Time Directory
of Public and Semi-Public Recreation and Auxiliary
Agencies for the use of recreation and social workers,
policemen, civic groups and neighborhood leaders. The
directory first lists the city's parks and playgrounds under
the Bureau of Parks, Recreation and Aviation, the Board
of Education and the Chicago Park District. Recreational
facilities are then listed by communities and city-wide
organizations are noted. The directory is an outstanding
cxample of the effectiveness with which such listings and

information can be given.

Demonstration Handbook of Olympia
Through the Ages

By Harriet V. Fitchpatrick and Florence M. Chil-
son. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $1.50.

Everyone attending the American Physical Education
Association Convention held in Cleveland, Ohio, in 1934
was tremendously impressed by the pageant, “Olympia
Through the Ages,” depicting the. history of physical
education. Over 3,000 took part in what was felt to be a
genuinely educational program. This book attempts to
answer the many questions which have been asked about
the pageant. With the dcscriptions given and the definite
suggestions offered for costumes and music the pageant,
.it is believed, can be adapted to any community.

Willingly to School.

Prepared by the staff of the Fox Meadow School,
with a foreword by \Villiam H. Kilpatrick. Round
Table Press, New York. $3.00.

“The new tym grade school has never had so artis-
tically beautiful and humanly interesting and engaging a
prescntation as this," states the New York Times Book
Review section for January 27, 1935, in commenting on
this interesting book which is an account of what is being
done and what success is being achieved at the Fox

Meadow School in Scarsdale, New York. The presen-
tation is made largcly through pictures which are un-
usually fine examples of photOgraphy by \Vendell Mac-
Rae. They show the children engaged in dozens of widely
varied activities—one alone, a group of two or three or
more, or a crowd of them with the outdoor and indoor
backgrounds and environment afforded by the school and
its gardens and play yards.

Federal Tra nsient Pro ra m.

By Ellery F. Reed, Ph.D. The Committee on Card

of Transient and Homeless. 1270 Sixth Avenue,
New York.

This evaluative survey, the result of a study made
under the auspices of the Committee on Care of Tran-
sient and Homeless for the period covering May, June
and July, 1934. contains a vast amount of information-
regarding this pioneer effort of the federal government.
In addition to the findings on housing, physical and med-l
ical care, provision of work, administration and person-l
nel, there is a section on Religion, Recreation and Edu-
cation. “The importance of leisure time in the transient!
program,” the report states, “was recognized early in its.
administration.” The camps and shelters, the survey
showed, nearly all had recreation halls or rooms, but
these were lacking in adequate equipment, the differen
centers differing greatly in the extent to which recrea
tional activities had been deve10ped. Some had especiall
trained persons in charge of the program, and a g
deal was being done in spite of severe limitations 0
funds. “It was clear that whcre the recreational progran
was strong it made a great difference in the attitude

and entire atmosphere of the transient bureau, and was
constructive force in the rehabilitation of the transients.’

——_——_——_—_‘_———:

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

lessen LEE, President

:lOHx H. me, First Vice~PreSide~nt
Jona- G. \V'lexT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT. Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUanR, Secretary

  
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

DIRECTORS

MRS. EDWARD “J. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERwoRTH, Molire, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CoRBETT, PortlandI Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville. Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAV’I§ON, Locust Valley. L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
Jonx H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

CHARLES IlAvDEN, New York. N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. Htcxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

II. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis. Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, MaSS.

EDWARD E. LOOMIS, New York, N. Y.

J. H. McCURDv, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERv Philadelphia, Pa.

\YALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MlLLtREN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES “J. \VADvaoRTH, JR., \Vashington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. W’lmAR’T, Concord, N. H.

MRS. \YILLIAM H. \VooDm, JR., Tucson, Ariz.

 

