((Maken

uMAKE” is as fundamental a command for most people as eat and sleep, only less imperative
than love.

Starved. thwarted, twisted are many of the men who have no chance to make with
l their hands. A single repetitive motion day after day. year after year. does not satisfy the hand that
' aches to be making something that is a complete whole. that shall stand as a visible evidence of one-

self as man the creator.

Call no man dull until you have seen his hands at work. Some gifted men are morons as far
as their hands are concerned. Let hands be unused generation after generation and the fingers may

atrophy and almost disappear.

Great as has been our waste of our natural resources in land and coal and oil. such waste is
small compared to our waste of creative craft capacity in men and women for adding to the beauty

of the world.

For many. “hand” work may be in the home. in the church. No new institution. no new
building is needed. Merely leadership and not too much of that. What is needed is an atmosphere in
which men are encouraged to deve10p such native gifts and capacities as they possess.

Why make things with one's hands? Why try to sketch. to paint. to sculpture. to carve. to
whittle. to build. to construct—when one is not to be paid. perhaps.when one has no use for the

particular article made?

The answer is simple—that is the kind of animal man is. The little child piles block on

block. covers great sheets of paper with his drawings. Primitive man. instead of sitting in idleness
when he has caught enough game and fish. carves and decorates. Perhaps some inner idea will find

outer expression. Perhaps in making with his hands he will help to discover. after all. who he is—
what is his essential nature. Perhaps his bands will help him to achieve an immortal soul.

Language is only one means of communication—sound is only one side of life.

A piece of sculpture by Einar Jonnsen in the museum in Reykjavik. Iceland. “speaks” to one
so distinctly. so irrevocably. that ever after the world is a different place. One has a new vision of
the upreach of the human soul.

One understands better Norwegian people when one has seen back in the mountains even the
outbuildings. the barns. the sheepfolds. centuries old. hand carved—labor of the long winter days
and evenings—nOt for utility. but evidence of the restless activity of an indomitable spirit seeking

to be born. to find itself.

Culture is not a matter of words and sounds alone. The hands may speak also—may con-
vey messages. may reveal thoughts and emotions too deep and too sacred for careless. easily uttered
words. Out of the depths of a supposedly inarticulate person may come a message. sculptured.
carved. that stuns.

Working with wood and brass and clay and marble. fashioning images of dreams and emo-
tions too real for tripping words. man becomes articulate. reveals himself even to himself. lives in
another world. understands himself better. whence he has come. whither he is moving. adds another

dimension to his world.

. . . t .

No recreation worker. seeking to give men and women everywhere the makings of an

abundant life. can ignore what man hath Wrought with his hands. what men do now in the crafts.
what cravings lie deep inside men that will find satisfation only in activity of the hands.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

February 1936

 

 

 

Photo by John L.

1......
H...
.1..."
Pt
0

J
n...

.m

4.-
nu
C

m
"H
1:...
at

I:

1..”
__L

In...

In
H)
.13
(K

of...
r...
(a

 

asa

  
  

Katherine F. Barker Memorial Field Secretary
on

Recreation and Athletics for Women and Girls
National Recreation Association

HP: REAL community center meets the needs of
T all people of the neighborhood, not just a few

of one age or one type. It is not merely an
athletic center attracting only the most vigorous
young people in organized leagues, although ath-
letics form a part of its program. It is not to be
thought of as a night school for the education of
ambitious intelligentsia, although many of its
classes, clubs and forums do offer exceptional
educational opportunities. Neither is it a hangout
place for the idle of the community, though every
effort of an energetic director is made to attract
the street corner loafer to its activities. Finally, it
must not be considered as just a convenient place
for neglectful parents to send their children and
young people, to be kept out of mischief, while
the parents pursue their own amusement.

\V hat then is a real community center? It is a
school or other building located in a residential
district open mornings, afternoons and evenings,
and frequently all day Saturday, with an or-
ganized educational-recreational program which
attracts boys and girls, both aimless and ambitious
youth, busy adults and even old people with time
hanging heavy on their hands.

To meet the needs of such

he Community Center

ByETHELMBOWERS Neighborhood Club House

A community center is described and sug-
gestions are offered for organization,
leadership, facilities, and activities.

along with peOple. To promote a program he
must be assisted by Sympathetic staff members
who are more interested in people’s welfare and
happiness than they are in teaching a class or
earning a salary. All, from the janitor and door-
man up, must be selected most carefully and
trained for this work.

To get a real picture of this new social agency
we have visited not one but actually hundreds of
well-organized community centers. Let us make
a composite picture of our impressions.

A Visit to a Center

The Doorman. As we enter the community cen-
ter we are met by the doorman who greets us with
a smile and shows us where to check our wraps.
He has been instructed to be dignified, courteous
and friendly, yet stern when necessary, and to pay
special attention to strangers, the timid, old and
poorly dressed. He has a dual responsibility as a
watchman and a reception committee of one, for

it is through him we get our
first impression of the cen-

varied age groups and their
many diversified interests, it
must have certain policies and
a comprehensive program.
To build the right kind of
atmosphere, neighborhood
morale, community c e n t e r
consciousness, or whatever it
may be called, as well as a
varied program, requires a
director with keen under-
standing and ability to get

"Many things have been done in this city ter. Many times it is his

for the benefit of its people. but it is
doubtful if any one feature of the city's
life has been productive of more good
or more happiness than the social cen-
ters . . . The social center' it may be said,
brings to its section of the big city the
small town benefits for those who make
use of it. Classes in useful things are
carried on. lessons in minor arts and
crafts are given. There is training that
makes it easier to carry on in the outside
world." Extracts from editorial in the

Milwaukee Sentinel, Sept. 2|, I933.

quick judgment and tact that
have saved an embarrassing
situation, for he must keep
out undesirables, maintain
order in the hall, escort
unruly patrons from the
building, make periodic trips
about the grounds and dis-
courage loitering and smok-
ing at the door. His job of

_keeping out the inevitable

527

—“ -1

-'-"- '-'—-r-

528 THE COMMUNITY CENTER AS A NEIGHOKHOOI) CLUB HOUSE

 

I
l
l
l
1

The "Knights of the Round Table"—a Mil-

waukee social center club of distinction!

small boy when he is not
supposed to be in the
building and sending him
away from basement windows is in itself no small
task!

Hosts and Hostesses. When we enter the main
hall we may be greeted by one of several people.
In some centers a member of the staff called the
“clerk—hostess” is seated at a desk to meet all pa—
trons, inspect their membership cards, keep rec-
ords of attendance, make out reports and direct
people to their rooms. This relieves the director
of much detailed responsibility, permitting him to
move freely about the building as he should. In
other centers the director greets the patrons in the
main hall during the early and late parts of the
evening unless he is called elsewhere by an emer-
gency. In still other cases two council members
serve as volunteer hosts or hostesses each even—
ing. This gives them an added sense of respon-
sibility in making the center a success. Doormen.
staff and volunteers should endeavor to learn and
call by name as many people as possible, making
use of any foreign languages they can if the oc-
casion warrants.

Checking. Now we give our wraps to the
checkroom boy. He is probably a college student
or part time worker. He also greets us pleasantly
and learns our names if possible. There are many
reasons for requiring that coats and hats be
checked. It provides for orderly entrance and
exit, encourages longer visits' and prevents un-

necessary passing in and
out. It adds dignity and a
club atmosphere to the
center. In case of a discipline problem, the person

in question may be found sooner or later at the
checkroom! Finally, the appearance of the club
rooms is greatly improved if coats and hats are
not lying about. There is no charge for checking
and no tipping.

The Director of the Center. The director is just
returning to the main hall from an inspection tour
on the opening of the center. He has a full-time
position and real responsibility. He is in charge
of the physical equipment and must do his utmost
to prevent misuse of property especially if the
program is conducted in a building controlled by
the Board of Education or some other depart-
ment. He is resppnsible for the efliciency of the
staff and the success of all the program, especially
all center-wide projects, community nights, par-
ties and general programs. He is the publicity
specialist for the center, host, chief disciplina—
rian, judge. In fact, he is the one who makes the
center a success or failure. Though he may work
through a council or committee, and see that they
get all the credit, it is he who must quietly see that
the council works harmoniously and in the right
direction. Tact, patience, personality, the ability

to get along with people, vision and drive are his
qualifications.

THE COJHIIUNITY CENTER AS A NEIGHORHOOD CLUB HOUSE 529

Non-Membership Activities

Now we are ready to visit the activities. At the
time of our visit the center is in full swing, most
of the people have arrived, all of the “kinks” have
been ironed out, so the Community center director
volunteers to be our guide, (incidentally making
another inspection tour) and tells us about the
center as we go.

“First let us visit the so-called non-membership
activities. There ale two types of people attend-
ing community centers—the joiners and the
drifters. The director and staff try to get all of
the aimless people who drift into the building to
join one or more of the teams, classes or clubs,
but this is not always possible. Therefore, a num-
ber of rooms are open to anyone without the for-
mality of becoming a member or attending regu—
larly. Strangers are attracted to these rooms, also
those whose time is limited or whose working
hours are irregular, and those who do not want
the responsibility of club membership and dues.
In these rooms strangers become acquainted, and
leaders, learning of their special interests, recom—
mend organized activities for them to join. More-
over, these non-membership activities attract
members of clubs and classes at times when these
groups are not in session.

Lounge. “Near the en-
trance of the building, su-
pervised by the clerk-hostess

A group of girls in a social center of
Milwaukee concentrate on making masks teaChes small groups 01'

from her desk, by the director or volunteer coun-
cil members, we End a lounge where‘patrons are
encouraged to meet members of their families and
friends, rather than blocking the hall and en-
trance. If this room is provided with easy chairs,
growing things, newspapers, magazines and a
radio, it can have a homelike atmosphere and be
in constant use. In one school the basement first—
aid room is nightly changed into an attractive
lounge-library by the addition of some bright
colored table runners and vases, and the opening
of a box of books and the distribution of popular
magazines.

Library and Reading Room. “A library is a great
asset to a community center. If possible, it is a
branch of the public library under a trained li-
brarian. If such a worker is not possible the co-
operation of the city librarian should be secured
and the worker should follow the same procedure

of issuing books. In any event, books and maga- .

zines can be collected and kept in a box or cup-
board to be distributed by a part time worker.
Table Game Rooms. “The table game room,
equipped with many chairs and small tables, is
presided over by one of the most sympathetic and
capable part-time leaders. In a cupboard are many
games from which to choose. The leader not only
issues requested games but
also suggests new ones,

 

530 THE COMMUNITY CENTER .45 A NEIGHORHOOD CLUB HOUSE

junior leaders how to play them, arranges tourna—
ments and sees that popular games are not mo-
nopolized by one individual or one group, and
that geiieral discipline is maintained.

“In the same room or nearby, perhaps in the
halls, if space and fire laws permit, are other
games, not exactly table games, yet not consid—
ered active games—table tennis, shuffleboard, dart
baseball, box bowling and other floor, wall or
large table games, supervised in many cases by
the same leader.

Adult Game Rooms. “If older men are to be
reached it is necessary to provide them with a
quiet room of their own for chess and checkers,
skat and other card games, permitting them to
smoke, and placing the responsibility on one of
their own number. The equipment is kept and
issued by the table games room leader and the
group supervised occasionally by the direct0r.

"‘In another room a mixed adult group may be
enj0ying informal bridge, rook, rummy or what—
ever the popular game is. On certain evenings one
will find organized instruction classes in contract
bridge, skat, checkers, chess and also parties and
tournaments. ' '

GirlsI Recreation Rooms. “Frequently we find
girls who do not enjoy playing in the table games
room which is crowded with .boys. Therefore we
provide a girls’ recreation room with a sympa-
thetic leader and a piano. Besides table games of
all kinds there are magazines attractive to girls,
and sometimes we have instruction in simple
handcrafts, or group singing around the piano.
Girls are encouraged to bring their boy friends
here for a chat or to participate in the games or
singing. This room serves as a feeder to the
classes and clubs for girls and mixed groups.

Billiard Room. “Billiard rooms have been estab—
lished at some community centers with excellent
results. Children are not admitted to this room,
and very careful supervision is provided, remov-
ing it as far as poossible from the atmosphere of
the commercial billiard room. The leader’s per-
sonality and ability to maintain discipline and or-
ganize contests are important. Such a room is
often the means of attracting members of a street
gang to the center, and a stepping stone to other
organized activities. The leader sees that a sys-
tem is established to insure equal distribution of
the playing time. For those who are waiting their
turn, checkers and magazines suited to young men
are provided.

    
    
  
   
  
 
 

Active Game Room. “A bare basement roon
has been equipped for active play by screening th
windows and lights. Here the boy whose idea 0
a good time is strenuous physical activity can b
satisfied. In fact, the boys’ favorite name for thi
room is ‘the rough house room.’ In it active game
are played under the leadership of an ingen
ious person who can adapt games to the limite(
space and keep up interest through leagues an
tournaments.

Showers. “If facilities or funds are available
shower rooms add much to the efliciency of the
athletic programs and contribute to individual and
community health.

Classes

“Now let us visit the class activities in the com-
munity center. There are five types of workers.
The central office usually provides a skeleton staff
of workers for each center, composed of the di—
rector and a corps of recreation leaders. A mun-
ber of workers are employed by the department on
part time for special classes, depending upon the l
activities desired by the patrons of the center and
available finances. Then there are the instructors
paid by special fees collected from class members.
A fourth group of leaders are provided by other
agencies such as the American Red Cross, and the
fifth are volunteers.

:‘All workers must have certain characteristics
in common if they are to succeed as recreation
leaders. \V e look to them for sympathetic under-
standing, vision, adaptability, courteousness, firm-
ness and energy. One who is bound by tradition
or who considers subject matter more important
than people will fail in this work. The true recre-
ation leader sees that the group has a wholesome
good time, with sociability held much more im—
portant than technical progress, although some-
thing new should be learned at every meeting.
One cannot always. conduct a recreation class in
the manner of formal day school instruction; that
is, keep the class together on the same project. or
set a definite goal to be reached at a specified time.
One must start with the interests and abilities of
the individual members, progress as fast as they
are capable in the geheral direction desired. but
willing to change the plans to include worthwhile
side interests at almost any provocation. More-
over, each leader must be versatile in his own field.

.rs
Staff and Part Time Leaders. “In the gymnasium '1

the leaders must be able to handle large groups of

THE COMMUNITY CENTER .45 A NEIGHORHOOD CLUB HOUSE 531

younger children in games, classes and athletics
for young men and for business girls; older n1en’s
volleyball ; women’s gymnasium classes; tap and
social dancing for mixed groups. Teams must be
organized, intramural leagues and tournaments
conducted without friction, demonstrations and
specialty numbers coached, play days and gym
parties planned. It is an unusual physical edu—
cator who can accomplish all of these things suc-
cessfully. Care must be taken that informal
neighborhood use of the gymnasium is not crowd-
ed out through a monopoly of formal league
games.

“The music department, too, needs several fine
leaders. \Ve like to see harmonica and ukulele
clubs, choruses
for men’s, wom-
en’s and mixed
groups, bands, a
popular orches-
tra of many in-
struments from
guitars to saxa-
phones and a
symphonic type
of orchestra. Our
musician should
be able to secure
cooperation and
contributions of
instruments, mu-
sic and money;
organize festi-
vals or contests;
sponsor holiday
programs and, with the dramatics, handcraft and
physical education leaders, produce minstrels,
musical comedies and operettas and pageants. Re—
hearsals should be enjoyable, parties and socials
frequent, group attendance at worthwhile con-
certs encouraged, and above all the organization
should be given every opportunity to perform not
only in its own center but before outside audiences.

“The dramatic leader has an equally busy time
with story-telling, stunts, skits, playlets, puppets
or marionettes, one—act plays and possibly an ad—
vanced dramatic club producing three-act plavs.
This worker must secure the cooperation of other
members of the staff or volunteers in constructing
scenery and making programs and posters, orga-
nizing committees to sell tickets, and enlisting
mothers’ clubs or handcraft classes to make cos-
tumes and collect properties. Visits to theaters

I

and to other dramatic clubs should be arranged
and lecturers invited to the club meetings. As
with music groups, the dramatic organizations
should be invited to give performances for various
audiences.

“Usually many handcraft workers must be em-
ployed, each for his or her own special ability to
lead a single session or two. Sometimes, but not
often, a very versatile worker can be found to
conduct model airplane classes, clubs and con-
tests, teach metal and leather craft and wood-
working, make scenery and properties for major
productions, and be an artist, painter, and sculp-
tor besides. Usually talented married women are
used to teach sewing, knitting, millinery and

 

In a number of cities chess is a very
popular social center activity for men

needlecraft classes on a part time basis. Such
women must not only be clever craftsmen but ac-
complished hostesses as well, if the women’s
groups are to be successful, for sociability is as
important in these recreation groups as painting
a plaque or remaking a.dress. All crafts workers
should cooperate with the music, dramatic and
physical education leaders in the production of the
all-center demonstrations, holiday parties and
shows of all kinds. The handcraft and fashion
shows are planned and conducted by the hand-
craft leaders and their groups.

Leaders Paid by Special Fees. “It used to be that
in some systems classes in any subject requested
by fifteen or more people would be organized.
However, this is no longer possible, so we some-.

 

532 THE COMMUNITY CENTER AS A NEIGHORHOOD CLUB HOUSE

t1mes hnd the self-supporting "The school that serves parents as well gether, should have the clos-

class conducted in the com-
munity center under the gen-

as children will provide the adult with est guidance and leadership

abundant opportunity
intellectual powersl his esthetic abilities.

+0 culhvaie “'5 during the entire session.”

eralleaderShip 9f the direcmr' tastes and capacities for appreciation. N . l, A . . .

F01“ example, 1f 21 group 0f Thus may the increased power which in- anon“ lty Ctlvmes
people in a center desire ex- dustrialism has placed in the hands of As we go about the com-
pert instruction in golf which man be made “‘9 '"5lrumen+ {0" “‘9 munity center we learn that

the recreation d e par t m en t

creation of a better and more beautiful Since it is located in a neigh_
, . . . America' the education of a generation
cannot P1 0V1de 1“ Its bUdgEt’ not only capable of wise enjoyment of

borhood composed of various

they 1113.)! Cl'llb together, pay fheir herifage buf of enriching  a gen. nationalities, many thCl‘CSt-
a special fee, and receive in- eration in which the individual will more ing programs are sponsored
struction from a professional. "earlY ‘30“? "1+0 l‘”5 Own- — Jesse H- by the staff working with the

In such cases the fees are
paid to the director of the
center who in turn pays the instructor.

Leaders Loaned by Other Agencies. “Lately we
have had still another type of program sponsored
in community centers, usually at the request of
the director after he has ascertained the needs of
the community. This is the class taught by a
leader who is paid by some other fund. The Fed—
eral Government has provided many such leaders.
Occasionally the Board of Education may be per-
suaded to send teachers to the center for desired
night school subjects, or the American Red Cross
may find a leader for a first aid class, a child wel-
fare organization for child care and training
course, civic music associations or other organi-
zations for cultural and home—making subjects.
The possibilities are endless.

Volunteers. “We sometimes find an enthusiastic
volunteer who will lead groups in a favorite hobby
as regularly as a paid worker, especially in such
subjects as photography, astronomy and stamp
collecting. It is the director’s duty to search out
these people and persuade them to give their
services.

Clubs. “In addition to the game rooms and
classes conducted by the regular staff we usually
find club groups in the community center which
are SUpervised by these same workers, especially
clubs of men, women, young men (who formerly
may have been members of gangs) business girls,
children, mixed young people’s social clubs, bridge
or other card clubs, social dancing clubs of young
people or married cou1)les, old time dancing clubs,
chess, checkers. horseshoes and many other clubs.
It is not usually necessary for a staff member to
be with these groups all the time, but he or she
should supervise them, advise and help the club
officers in every possible way. However, newly
organized groups, unaccustomed to working to-

Newlon in Our Schools.

national groups and their
leaders. For instance there is
the “Theater of the Nations,” where weekly, dur-
ing a long winter season, a different national group
presents a play in its own language, with an
English synopsis provided for the spectators. At
other times‘ there is a series of pageants, each de-
picting the music, songs and dances of a different
nation. An International Ball is a colorful thing,
with each person dressed in the costume of his
homeland, and alternating between the usual
social dances is an exhibition dance by each na-
tional group in turn, often accompanied by its own
musicians and singers. An annual Folk Art ex-
hibit entices many a treasured heirloom out of
dusty trunks for the delight of thousands of spec-
tators. The director continues: “It is very im-
portant that the thoughtless American born and
educated sons and daughters of our immigrants
learn to appreciate the culture that their parents
have brought from the old country. we can honor
the old people and change the attitude of their
children best by these neighborhood folk festi-
vals. Also we can learn much from them if we
ask a different foreign leader each week to teach
us one favorite dance of his nation. or song, or
how to make one delicious dish in the cooking
class or some form of handcraft. In one mothers’
club coffee is invariably served, accompanied each
week by a cake or cookies of a different nation,
brought by members of the club. Afterwards,
those who wish the recipe secure it from the

proud housewife who baked it.

Self- Directed Groups

“And finally we have the self-directed group
which applies for permission to use the building,
such as the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Camp Fire
Girls or Girl Reserves, Parent—Teachers Associa- I
tion, American Legion, civic associations, forums,

 

 

THE COMMUNITY CENTER AS A NEIGHORHOOD CLUB HOUSE 533

literary clubs and many others. One person,
usually the leader or president, is held reSponsi-
' ble for the conduct of the group, and the director
I of the center keeps a watchful eye over the meet-
ing in his regular tours of inspection.”

It is very desirable and helpful for the com-
munity center director to be active on boards or
' committees of community service agencies, child
welfare groups and delinquency committees. Most
important of all, through working with them, he
secures the cooperation of these neighborhood or-
ganizations to expand his contacts, provide vol-
unteer leaders, raise money and collect supplies
for use in the center when the budget is not

adequate.

Organizing the Community Center

How are such community centers brought into
being? \Ve asked this and many other questions
during the course of our visit. We found that
usually a central office such as the municipal rec-
reation department organizes and conducts the
playground and community center activities of the
entire city. Public tax funds provide for leader-
ship, supplies and equipment, and sometimes build-
ings and upkeep. More frequently, the municipal
recreation director arranges with other agencies,
especially the Board of Education, for use of their
facilities after hours, the recreation department
sometimes paying for light, heat, and janitor ser-
vice and, of course, supplying the director and
stafiT for each center. If the center is open five or
six days a week the one in charge has a full time
job. The staff members, specialists in
music, dramatics, handcraft and games,
may be part time workers in this center
only or on full time, serving in several
different centers in the course of a week.

Adaptation of Old Buildings

we usually find that community cen-
ters are most needed in the crowded,
older sections of the city, where there are
the oldest school buildings, least adapted
to recreation. However, wonders have
been accomplished in making these old
buildings meet the needs of community

‘

A few samples of the work done by women
of a handcraff' class in a social center

use. With a little imagination and careful plan-
ning, handy men, under wise guidance, have
adapted school buildings with a comparatively
small expenditure of money.

There should, of course, be an office for the
recreation director Where he may keep his papers
and do his desk work. This need not be elaborate.
Often a part of a cloakroom or closet can pro—
vide desk and file space.

There should be a capacious supply room some-
where in the building. In addition, store rooms,
closets and cupboards are of infinite importance
and cannot be supplied too abundantly on each
floor. Day school supplies and equipment should
be kept entirely separate from those used by eve-
ning recreation groups.

In many old school buildings, attractive game
and club rooms have been constructed in the base-
ments by the addition of board partitions between
supporting pillars and whitewash or paint. Base-
ment recreation rooms have the advantage be-
cause their equipment does not have to be put out
of the way during the day time.

Rooms which can be attractively furnished as
club rooms are especially valuable. The planning
and making of the furniture and equipping the
rooms provides Splendid community and club pro-
jects. Especially desirable for the club rooms are
gas and water connections, making the serving of
food possible.

Upstairs, the school class rooms can be remod-
eled at little expense for use of recreation groups ‘
without destroying their original effectiveness

 

 

534

The kindergarten and other rooms without desks
fastened down, need only a supply closet in the
cloakroom from which folding chairs and card
tables or long wooden tables on horses are brought
out nightly. Other class rooms, especially those
of the lower grades, are adapted by screwing the
desks in groups of two’s on wide boards instead
of to the floor. Such an arrangement makes it
possible to remove the desks after school hours,
leaving the floor clear for dancing classes, club
meetings or craft groups. In the latter two cases
chairs, table tops and sewing machines are brought
in. This, of course, implies that there are ar-
rangements for storing this equipment on the floor
during the daytime.

All available special equipment in the school
such as rooms for sewing, cooking, woodwork-
ing, the gymnasium, auditorium, stage, library.
music room, teacher’s rest room and cafeteria are
used by recreation leaders without change, ex-
cept perhaps for the addition of storage closets.
One class room was miraculously transformed
for use of the teaching of beauty culture by fas-
tening drop—leaf shelves under the chalk troughs
_of the blackboards and installing under them elec-
tric light sockets. In the evening the shelves are
raised, portable mirrors are set up and curling
irons and other appliances attached. This room
was fortunate in having a washbowl to which a
shampoo hose and shower nozzle were attached.

Planning New Schools for Community
Center Use

When a new school building is proposed the
municipal recreation director should make every
effort to have the architects plan it for community
use. A main door of one wing should open into a
foyer where there is'a desk commanding a view
of all hallways and stairs, with a director’s office.
supply room and check room adjacent. Facilities
usable for the recreation of adults as well as chil-
dren should be grouped in this wing. These in-
clude gymnasium, showers and lockers, audi-
torium, cooking, sewing, woodworking. metal
craft and music rooms, cafeteria, library and
teachers"room. Basement game rooms should be
so constructed that a glass enclosed leader’s desk
and supply cupboard overlooks two or three
rooms. One room should be planned as a “com-
munity room” for Parent-Teacher meetings, clubs,
parties, small dramatics or recitals and programs.
A small kitchen and pantry should adjoin this
room. The entire wing should be cut off from the

THE COMMUNITY CENTER AS A NEIGHORHOOD CLUB HOUSE

main building by locked doors and should be on
separate heating and lighting circuits. Plenty of
storage space and closets should be included in

this plan.

Publicity

No community center can serve the people
without adequate publicity. The municipal recre—
ation department should provide attractive fold-
ers showing the entire community center program,
for distribution at libraries, factories, stores, clubs
and welfare agencies and to be taken home by
school children and patrons of the center. News
releases should be prepared and given to the press
and every effort made to get editorials or feature
articles in leading newspapers. Addresses should
be made before civic organizations, labor groups
and religious bodies and over the radio. A week
previous to the Opening of the social centers, the
Milwaukee Department secured the cooperation of
the Electric Transit Company in placing large
placards on the front of street cars, and a huge
electric sign on the facade of the city hall, reading
“Visit Social Centers.”

Each center director must be a capable public-
ity man, getting news items in neighborhood
papers, mimeographing hand bills for the children
to carry home, making attractive posters for the
entrance hall, and contacting neighborhood civic,
religious, fraternal and nationality groups.

The Community Center Council

One of the best methods of publicizing the
community center is by word of month. Each
director needs the active assistance of leading
citizens in talking for the center, explaining it to
the uninitiated, and promoting its regular pro-
grams and special events by word and deed.
Therefore, in most community centers, we End
some kind of council of laymen working to assist
the director and staff in neighborhood contacts
and in the conduct of special programs and social
dances. The composition of these councils vary
in different cities. The center director may form
an advisory council of influential people of the
neighborhood, older men and women who may
not care to participate in the activities of the cen-
ter but who can be of great help in interpreting
the work of the recreation department to the citi-
zens and “feeling the pulse” of the community for
the benefit of the staff. Such peOple as presidents
of the American Legion, Parent-Teacher Associ-
ation, W'omen’s Clubs, fraternal orders and civic

 

THE COMMUNITY CENTER AS A NEIGHORHOOD CLUB HOUSE 535

clubs; ministers, school principals and other com-
munity and national group leaders, should be
asked to serve on this advisory council.
Sometimes we find the council formed by elec—
tion several months after the center opens. During
a certain week every club, class, team or group
using the building elects one or two representa-
tives to the community center council. These peo—
ple work with the director and staff in sponsor-
ing community nights, holiday programs, demon-
strations, closing banquets or parties and social
dances. Other center directors prefer to have
standing or temporary committees instead of a
permanently organized council. In any event, there
are many advantages in using laymen to develop a
center and promote its program. Councils and
committees often assist in conducting holiday
celebrations, provide funds for activities which the
center cannot provide, plan outings for children,

give awards for local contests,
act as judges for competitions,
interpret the needs of the com—
munity, make costumes and
provide properties and hand—
craft supplies, help b r e a k
down social and racial cleav-
ages, cooperate in solving
problems such as delinquency,
unemployment, civic improve-
ments and are available for

emergency calls of almost any
kind.

ette College.

Policies

Another necessity to the success of all of the
centers is the establishment of basic policies by
the municipal recreation director and the center
directors. These have to do with minimum hours
the centers are open, what age groups are to be
admitted, procedure regarding discipline, smok-
ing and drinking, conduct of social dances and
the organization and work of community center
councils.

The well-organized centers are open morning,
afternoon and evening. If the center is open in
the morning and early afternoon, activities for
women and for those who are irregularly em-
ployed are usually conducted. More frequently
we find that centers are open from the close of
school, about 3:30, until 9:30 or 10:00 P. M.,
with an hour’s closing for the evening meal. ‘On
community nights or special pr0grams the closing
hour may be extended until II :00 P. M. Satur-
day, hours vary with the neighborhood, being

"Throughout the country every pub-
lic school house should be opened
at least once a week for the people
of the neighborhood. for the men and
women—teachers, laboring peopleI
physicians. bankers. a cross section
of the community
gether to discuss the great problems
which confront us."———— Dr. William
Mather Lewis, President of Lafay-

-— to meet to-

from 9:00 A. M. until 6:00 P. M. or from I :00
P. M. until late at night.

The problem of children attending the center is
always a matter of discussion. In most neighbor-
hoods school children are admitted only in the
afternoons and during the day on Saturday. In
the evening they may attend when accompanied
by their parents, if they cannot be left at home.
Those no longer attending school, if over sixteen
years, are permitted to attend in the evening.
However, in certain sections of our large cities,
where the homes are overcrowded and poorly
heated, and the children are on the streets until
all hours, some directors find it necessary to admit
children in the evenings for certain activities. This
is inadvisable for it invariably tends to di'Scourage
the attendance of adults and even youth, who do
not want to go where there are huge crowds of
noisy youngsters. Moreover, the administration is
liable to be criticized by the
school authorities who may
claim that the recreation de-
partment is attracting the chil-
dren away from homework
and early bed time.

One problem that is f re-
quently faced by center direc-
tors is the wandering gang of
boys whose sole delight is dis—
turbing any organized pro—-
gram. If the gang originates
in the neighborhood, the di—
rector should be personally responsible for get-
ting the boys into teams, clubs or other activities
which will use up their excess energies and tend
to make good citizens of them. If the program is
disturbed by gangs from other neighborhoods, it
may be necessary to have a registration of all
community center members and issue cards of a
certain color to them, admitting to that center only
those holding the proper colored cards.

Usually smoking is not permitted in social cen-
ters. This rule is sometimes waived for certain
groups of older men meeting in rooms which are
so located and ventilated that they may enjoy their
pipe or cigar with their chess, checkers and cards.

If doorman or staff discover anyone whom they
suspect of drinking, that person is asked to spend
the evening elsewhere. This often requires all the
tact that the staff member has.

A Varied Weekly Program
Let us read quickly a folder showing what the

 

536 THE COMMUNITY CENTER AS A NEIGHORHOOD CLUB HOUSE

seventeen social centers and seven gymnasium and
auditorium centers of Milwaukee offer the

citizens.

Arts and C rafts

Applicd Arts Pottery and Clay Modeling

Crocheting Preparation and Serving
Flowcr Making of Food

Garment Remodeling Rugs

Knitting Sculpturing

Lamp Shades Sewing and Dressmaking
Leather Tooling Toys

Metal \Vork' \Veaving

Needle Craft \Vood Carving and
Painting \Vhittling

Patch Work Quilts Woodwork

Home Care of the Sick

Beauty Culture and Personal Care
Athletics and Sports

Team Games .
Gymnasmm Classes
Low Organized Games

Boxing
Table Tennis

Dancing

Creative Dancing Saturday Evening

Dances of Foreign Lands Informals

Married People’s Dance Social Dancing
Clubs Tap Dancing

Old Time Dance Clubs

i

Games
Table Games Chess
Billiards Contract Bridge
Checkers

o ' I o ‘
Literary Organisations

Debating Clubs Public Speaking
English for Foreign-born Reading Groups
Parliamentary Law Classes English Study Classes

Citieeu Training for Foreign-born

Classes in Beginners’ English

Classes in Advanced English

Citizenship Classes for preparation for Naturalization

American Literature and History Classes for New
Americans

Free help in filling out first and second papers

Dramatics

Social Center Drama Clubs Milwaukee Social Center
Play Reading Groups Drama Guild
Milwaukee Players

M nsic
Bands Mixed Choruses
Glee Clubs—Men and Novelty Bands
\Vomen Opera Clubs
Mandolin and String Orchestras
'Ensembles Ukulele Clubs

Minstrel Troups Vocal Training Classes

Camera Clubs and Photographic Clinic

Beginners’ Course
Advanced Course
PhotOgraph Clinic

Aeronautics and Model Planes
Radio

Short Wave Radio

C izric and Social Organizations

Civic Associations
Community Clubs

Guardian Clubs

Boy Scouts
Girl Scouts
Junior Optimist Clubs

Social, Study, and Hobby Clubs for All Ages
Parent-Teachers’ Associations

Parent Training Classes

Married People’s Social Clubs
Neighborhood Card Parties
' Mothers’ Clubs

Community Features

\Veekly Entertainments
Motion pictures, recitals, concerts, lectures, plays, etc.
Saturday Afternoon Children’s Entertainments
Saturday Night Informals
Dancing and for those who do not care to dance—-
table tennis, cards, social games, and visiting

Theatre Pre- Views

Pre-views of dramatic and musical events
Discusswn of plays or programs, authors or compos-
ers, and artists

C h it dren’s Theatre

Plays, concerts, puppets, magicians

Reading Rooms
Afternoon Children’s Activities

Games, Gymnastics, tumbling, dancing, hiking, story-
telling, drama, and clubs for boys and girls of ele—
mentary school age

Children’s Room

Evenings, for children brought -by parents who cannot
leave them at home.

Special Events

In addition to these regularly organized activi—
ties there is a special event almost every week,
such as the opening night, Hallowe’en party,
Thanksgiving program, Christmas pageant and
party, gym demonstration, music festival or con-
test, folk festivals, dramatics programs of all
kinds, handcraft and hobby show, fashion shows
in various seasons, athletic contests and play days
and parties and banquets.

Cooperation

Not only the director and staff, but the council
members, club officers, committees of all kinds.
national leaders, civic organizations, all work to
make these regular and special programs a suc-
cess. No wonder the director is proud of his staff

(Continued on page 564)

 

 

Recreation Experiments

By
JESSIE LOUISE BEATTIE

0R MANY YEARS the country has been sacri-
ficed to the building of cities. When a
farmer raised his family to an age where
they began to think ambitioust of achievement
and progression, whether commercial or cultural,
they at once started their trek away from the land.
Indeed, if a country boy or girl did not show some
desire early in life to “go out into the world,” he
was considered to be without “push,” as country
people say. Even today it is seldom that the boy
who chooses to stay on the farm, the girl who re-
mains at home to help in the house, is pointed to
with pride by the neighborhood. But if William
goes to town and sells socks for a living, he re-
turns to his community a step high in the social
scale~—a step higher than his brother who grows
the finest wheat in the county and lives close to
the beautiful heart of the great outdoors.

Such a condition of affairs has gone on too
long. \Vhat brought it about, in the first place,
and why has it continued?

Not so many years ago our forefathers came to
this wilderness continent from homes of refine-
ment and culture. \Vhether accustomed to the
task or not. they bent their backs to the breaking
of the land and the building of homes. How they
must have missed the comforts they had known,
and, more than the comforts, the luxuries of life
.—contact with books and other people, with a
civilization rich in all the finer developments of
the mind! And when their chil-

dren were born, these hard-

Rural Communities

of what they had lost. Such a faith made sacri-
fice as naught.

During the past year it has been my privilege
to visit country communities and to discover
whether the faith of the sturdy and brave has
been kept._\Vhat I have seen has frequently sad-
dened and distressed me. In some places the coun-
try lacl<s cultural privileges today quite as much
as it did a century ago, and the young men and
women of farming districts must look to the
cities for whatever of social life and amusement
and entertainment it is their fortune to purchase.
As long as this is the case we cannot make a well-
balanced race of agriculturalists; we cannot make
of country life a life worth living.

Enough cannot be said for organizations which
have been seeking to improve conditions—The
\Vomen’s Institutes and the Farmer’s Organiza—
tions, but they need every bit of help we can give
them to widen their range and to extend their
service.

Discovering Their Desires

In the Province of Ontario an organization
called the Community \Velfare Council of On-
tario became interested about two years ago in
discovering whether country people wished to re-
ceive assistance in the development of cultural en-
tertainment. Questionnaires were sent to the pub—
lic school teachers in rural districts with queries

such as these: “What facilities

working parents were acutely
aware of the restricted oppor-
tunities which they could have
educationally and socially, but
they had high hopes of what
would be accomplished by an-
other century. There would be
leisure then for the pursuance
of the arts and their children’s
children would be in possession

Miss Beattie, who is Director of
Recreation of the Community Wel-
fare Council. Ontario, Canada.
tells of some, of her interesting ex-
periences in helping rural com-
munities develop a recreational
and cultural life. "One might talk
forever." she says. "on the sub-
iect of rec'reation and its im-
portance for country people. We
record our small achievements
that others may find better ways
and greater things to do."

'for recreation have you in your

community? Are these satis-
factory? Have you an interest-
ing social life? Are yOUr young
people employing their leisure-
tin‘1e for the right purposes?
Would you like assistance in
improving your community life
culturally P" The answers prov-
ed without a doubt that help
was needed and wanted.

537

538 RECREATIONOEXPERIMENTS IN RURAL COMMUNITIES

It was decided to open a booth at the Canadian
National Exhibition in Toronto during the fall of
1934 and, through the press, to invite people from
rural districts to consult us there on community
problems. As Director of Recreation for the
Council I was given charge of the venture. In the
cosy corner which was fitted up as an inviting
room a collection of good books on hobbies was
arranged, there was a shelf of suitable plays for
amateurs performances, a mOdel miniature thea-
ter with lighting equipment and sets, a typical
traveling library, and a small hand-loom. With a
projecting lantern slides were shown of plays
written and produced within a farming community.

During the twelve days of the exhibition more
than seventy communities were represented by the
visitors who came in to inquire and often to con-
sult about their problems. Hundreds asked ques-
tions and were given literature explaining our
purpose and dealing with the importance of cul-
tural recreation and the right use of leisure. We
offered not only assistance by correspondence but
the services of a worker to go into the field to
study the problems of'each community desiring
help and to give that help or direct toward it,
whenever it was possible to do so.

We Visit the Communities

By the beginning of October arrangements had
becn completed for a number of visits ranging
from one to five days, and we soon saw that the
demand was to be far beyond the supply. It was
my opportunity to be the pioneer worker and the
happenings of the first ten months seem. to me in-
teresting beyond measure. I am glad to record
them for others who are concerned in this great
field where the earth is rich with promise but so
greatly in need of the plough—share of service.

An attempt was made to work through the
medium of the village and to draw to it the young
people of ,nearby farms. This gave us a meeting
place, either in a little country schoolhouse, a
community hall, or in the basement of a tiny
church where the furnace smoked and our heads
almost touched the ceiling. Usually three meet—
ings at least were held and sometimes afternoon
meetings as well in a three-day visit. The first
consisted of a frank discussion of the problems of
rural people at this time and the desire of the
Council to help them to help themselves improve
the mental life of their communities through plan-
ned recreation. Folk games and folk singing added
a touch of informality and gave an opportunity

at the end of the meeting for person to person
contacts. On the second evening a talk was given
on some form of recreation, the drama, reading
with a purpose, handicrafts, literary society pro—
grams, or some other related subject. The third
evening was similar to the second but usually end-
ed, if some organization for the furtherance of
the plan was not already in existence. Women’s
Institute, a Farmers’ Club, or a Literary and Dra-
matic Club with the appointing of a nominating
committee to suggest names for officers of a club
or society to develop cultural life.

One of the most encouraging features of this
work from the very beginning was the way the
numbers increased each evening of the visit, and
the eagerness with which plans were accepted for
improving community life. In one community
where dancing was the only recreation, and rid—
den hard, there was an attendance of only four-
teen souls on the first evening, while more than
one hundred tripped to the strains of Nellie Cray
a stone’s throw away. So, after a talk had been
given and the purpose of our work explained, we
went to the dance: The next evening our attend-
ance was seventy—five and today in that district a
progressive community club is flourishing which
brings to it an outside speaker each month as well
as talent developed within the community itself.

A Few of the Activities

Sometimes the activity took the form of a lead—
ership school. This was possible,only when the
person with whom contact was made before the
visit was capable of preparatory organization for
this purpose. In a certain village of only four
hundred people, it was an enterprising school
teacher. The school lasted for five evenings. Its '
purpose was to give training in recreation leader-
ship to attendants from small country communi-
ties and to stimulatq all to group activity. Mem-
bership tickets for the week were sold. at twenty-
five cents each to cover the odd expense, such as
printing of programs, rental of hall, and the rail-
way fare of the visiting lecturer. The sessions
began with a short devotional period led by a dif-
ferent churchman each evening. Then followed
the hour’s lecture and an hour of group games,
folk dancing, and folk singing.

The lectures in this particular instance covered
a short course in amateur dramatics, which was
my contributionto the school. The course began
with a simple history of the dfama and ended with
two one—act plays given as a demonstration per-

 

RECREATION EXPERIMENTS IN RURAL COMMUNITIES 539

formance. Most of the cast
worked during the day and at-
tended the school at night, so
time for rehearsals was hard to
find, but there was a way. One
of the plays was produced by
the high school group and the
other by older attendants of the
school. One of the latter was a
young barber who could not
leave his shop morning, noon or night, so we held
our rehearsals in the barber shop. I, as director,
occupied the barber chair and we set up our stage
in the back of the shop. Every property was
represented but not every property was there. For
instance, we. used an arm chair with a board
across it for a piano. But everything was in its
place so that there would be no confusion later.
W' hen a customer appeared the rehearsal stopped
and the director gave her place to the customer.
\Nhen he was properly “shaven and shorn,” he
returned the chair! The cast had a keen sense of
humor and our difficulties added to our pleasure.
The success of the school was unquestionable,
and when the week ended the young people of the
village put the lessons they had learned to good
account by beginning work on a sacred drama
which they produced at Easter with much praise
from the press. Those from outside communities
went back to carry their inspiration to their
neighbors. And when summer came the entire
membership reorganized and went off to the lake-
side to hold a rural leadership camp for five days.
This venture proved a great success and all are
determined to repeat the program next year.

A Winter Chautauqua

A slightly different plan was put into operation
in a village of two thousand. Here assistance was
invited by a young woman who had done some
community work along drama lines and wished to
unite the forces there for community service. It
was decided to hold a winter Chautauqua com-
posed of local talent with the addition of a course
of lectures which I was requested to give. The
cooperation of every educational, religious and
:social organization was secured. The program
for each evening consisted of a lecture as the main
feature with lighter entertainment before and
after. The first evening this consisted of musical
numbers and readings by villagers; on the second
evening a local dancing and singing teacher con—
tributed a recital by her pupils and a resident

"Every hour of human life freed
from enforced toil by the machine
is a‘potential treasure to the race.
To seize upon these new oppor-
tunities and convert them into the
creative ioys of the mind. body
and spirit they might be! What
else can we learn that is half so
vital to ourselves, to society?"

—Dorotby Canfield Fisher.

actor presented two well-prepar—
ed skits from musical comedy.

An evening enjoyed particu—
larly was one devoted to coun-
try children, .brought by their
teachers to entertain us with
drills, choruses and quaint little
plays and songs. On our final
evening we presented the Trial
Scene from the “Merchant of ‘
Venice,” the cast being high school students, and
the “Bishop’s Candlesticks,” given by older mem-
bers of the executive committee. Membership for
the week was set at fifty cents, and on no evening
did the attendance fall below 250. After general
expenses were paid—and they were high due to a
heavy rental for the hall a collection of books on
the drama bought for the village library, and the
railway fare of the lecturer, the executive had
enough money in the treasury to begin again next
year. Moreover, the village had had interesting
entertainment, had encouraged local talent, and had
studied the fundamentals of one of the oldest arts
in the world——that of play—making.

In a Small Farming Community

But it was in a small farming community with—
out the sign of a village belonging to it that our
most interesting experiment occurred. A resident
of foreign birth but interested in improving the
life of his small part of an adopted country, wrote
to us to see if we could spare time to pay it a
visit. We were glad to go, and after a long ride
by bus and another by private motor, we found
ourselves in what, sarcastically perhaps, had been
called “Happy Valley.” We found the only pos—
sible place in which to hold a public meeting to
be a miniature schoolhouse set down on the cor-
ner of a farm some two miles from the place
where most of the settlers lived. We were told
that there was little cultural life and almost as
little social life for young people there. It was
for both that the residents were bidding.

The season was midwinter and the drifted side.
roads were impassible, but undaunted, the young
people came over the snowy hills on foot, while
the stars shone beneficently upon them. As I went
down the snowy roadway to the tune of happy
young voices echoing through the night air, I ex-
perienced a feeling of deep humility. These young
men and women were coming, not to be enter-
tained, but to learn what they could do to improve

(Continued on page 564)

 

   

A
 Wading Pool
‘ for
Boston

COHI'fC'SJ- the American City

Site of the Hyde Park Wading Pool

 

N EXPERIMENTAL Cff‘i‘rt: O f B + , + I the rate of from 4,000 to
Boston’s new wading "6 ° °5 °"5 m°5 P0Pu '3"

FERA projects has been the trans- 5’000 gallons per hour' as

pool was planned to formafion of a negleded vacaM compared to the pool capacity

give maximum safety, health [0+ gmto a wading pool. 5. s, Shep- of 13,000 gallons. The Health
values and recreation at the pard, Assistant Secretary, Boston Department of the city has
lowest possible construction 'Vlun'C'P":II ResearCh Bureau. de- made several tests since the

scribes the proiect in the Novem—

. . . 3001 has been in o eration
ber Issue of The American City. 1 p

and has found the bacteria

and maintenance costs. As
there were no wading pools

 

in this region, the pool was count in the water satis—
largely designed from origi— factory.

nal ideas, and details developed as the plans and A drinking fountain, shaded benches and toilet
construction progressed. So successful. has the facilities have been provided nearby. In its first
venture proved that plans ' (Continued on page .565)

are under way for simi-
lar pools in other parts of
the city.

The primary consider—
ation I in the construction
of the pool was to insure
health and safety. Smal-
ler than those planned for
more populous districts,
it is 30 by 50 feet, with
the bottom sloping
gently to a maximum
depth of 21 inches at the
center. Fresh water runs
continuously through a
sprinkler fountain—head
and a sub-surface inlet, at

C

The popularity of the pool
is scarcely to be doubted!

 

C: mien ’1 he 4nwrican City

544]

Adventuring Along
the

Long Brown Path

youngsters and oldsters are joining hands in

'l vl‘-:R T1112 LENGTH and breadth of our country
|'

l
l

a comradeship that bids fair to be one of the
redeeming features of the recent depression. In
an era when lack of spending money is a national
inconvenience. the value of outdoor activity is in-
estimable since it entails the smallest monetary
outlay per hour of happiness that can be found.

The formation of hiking clubs, with emphasis
on outdoor activity of many forms. cannot help
but produce results which will be of lasting bene—
ht to the physical and mental well being of
America. With a swimming suit and an avail:
able swimming pool, whether it be canal, river,
lake or creek, the individual can indulge in hours
of enjoyment and terminate the adventure with a
sun-browned and stronger body, and a store of
satisfying memories. He who lives in an area
blessed with snow may spend hours of perfect
enjoyment to the music of swishing snow be-
neath flying skis.

The most universal and available of all outdoor
activities. however. is that of hiking. It may he
done alone but is most enjoyable in the company
of kindred spirits. in the well-balanced program
of an organized group all phases of outdoor
activity come in for their share of participation.

During January 1.929 the Mohawk Valley Hik-
ing Club was formed by a small group of enthusi~
astic “outdoorians” while gathered about the leap-
ing flames of a campfire in the seclusion of a
wooded ravine on old Yantaputchaberg. Since
that time the club has enjoyed an interesting and
fascinating existence, marked at times with good-
natured argument and conflict of personalities and
ideals, but emerging each time from such symp—
toms of growing pains with a stronger and better
structure. In the past six years the club has often

 

Courtesy Trails Magazine and
D. ll’altcr Ilfosaucr

By VINCENT J. SCHAEFER

departed in its policies and programs from those
of most hiking clubs, so that at the present time

its activities are widespread and varied.

The Educational Assembly

Shortly after the club was formed informal
talks on various subjects were given at the close
of the regular monthly business meetings. These
talks covered a wide variety of subjects, ranging
all the way from photography and campcraft to
tree identification and canoe trips. A logical de—
velopment of these programs was a series of
planned talks on special subjects of interest to
the members. Considerable numbers of non-
members were soon asking for permission to at-
tend the talks, and as a result it was found neces-
sary to set aside special nights for the lectures.
The subsequent development was the Educational
Assembly, a series of weekly meetings on wide
ranges of subjects conducted throughout the win-
ter months. Attendance varied from small groups
of about thirty to large ones of three or four
hundred.

The main object of the Assembly is to provide
informative illustrated talks on subjects not cov-
ered by any other program in the vicinity of
Schenectady. Moving pictures, lantern slides,
special exhibits are used to visualize the subjects
of the various programs. The series given last
year covered subjects such as Local History,

541

 

542

Entomology, Geology, Archeology, Astronomy,
and Botany. In selecting speakers care is taken
that their st0ry should be suited for a general
audience and yet technically and scientifically cor—
rect and accurate in all details. ‘

All meetings are, provided without charge al-
though at times when moving pictures are rented
the audience is informed of the fact and those
who care to contribute a small amount do so as
they leave at the close of a program. The As-
sembly is held in the auditorium or study hall of
one of the local high schools which are available
without charge during the school year for pro—
grams of the type given at the Assemblies.

To augment some of the lecture
series such as Geology, field trips
are held to provide those interested
with actual experience in studying
the rock formations and fossil beds
discussed during the l e 'c t u r e 5.
While most of the field trips are to
places out of doors, others are to
special exhibits in museums and
similar places for a more general—
ized study than is possible in any
given locality.

Within walking (1 i st a n c e of
Schenectady the Bozen Kill has
carved a way through layers of
shale rock as it winds its way to-
ward the base of the Helderbergs.
On its upper reaches, at a place
known as Williams Hollow, lives
a dirt farmer known as the “Poet
of the Helderhills.” The rushing,

tumbling waters of the stream bisect his rock—
strewn farm. The love of Nature established a
bond between the hikers and this hard working,
self-taught man, his wife and large family, that
members of the club were extended an invitation
to camp along the picturesque stream. As the
friendship continued the hikers purchased trees
and annually plantcd several thousand on the poor
soil bordering the stream to augment other plant-
ings put in by the old poet as an annual custom.
Four years ago the farm, consisting of over a
hundred acres, was set aside as a wild life sanctu-
ary with appropriate ceremony and a bronze
tablet unveiled by the hiking club. Subsequent
years have brought continued plantings to in-
crease the beauty of the sanctuary. A fernery con-
taining over thirty species including most of the
ferns indigenous to the state has been established

wherever

 

C aurtesy Trails Magazine

The Mohawk Valley Hikers

to readers of Recreation:
"We hope as time goes on
to meet more and more
of you along 'fhaf long
brown path that leads

we

ADVENTURING ALONG THE LONG BROIVN PATH

in a rocky glen. A nature and ge010gy trail is
located in the interesting parts of the woodland.

The Christman homestead is fast becoming a
Nature shrine visited annually by thousands. Con-
tinued reforestation by the club has covered all
of the poor land on the farm leaving the more
fertile land for more intensive cultivation.

A Definite Interest Vital

While the act of hiking is in itself a worth-
while occupation for spending leisure time, the
participant misses most of the real enjoyment
available unless he returns from his outing richer
in mind and body as a result of his hours in the
open. To achieve the maximum
enjoyment the hiker should have
some definite interest, whether it
be in historic areas, places of nat—
ural beauty, geological formations,
varieties of trees, numbers of bird
species encountered, kinds of wild
flowers seen, species of insects ob-
served—in fact—any one or more
of the numerous branches of nat-
ural science to be found every-
where in the country side.

In an effort to combine as large
a variety as possible of these de-
lightful subjects the Long Path of
New York was proposed by the
Mohawk Valley Hikers. It is now
fully scouted and will soon be
marked so that the outdoorian will
be able to enjoy the hinterland that
it discloses. It is oHered as a
branch of the great Appalachian Trail stretching
for over a thousand miles along the high ridges
of that eastern mountain range. \Vhile the main
trail crosses only the extreme southeastern part
of New York State, our Long Path enables a
traveler to hcad across thc Catskills and into the
Adirondacks. q.

As laid out, the route of the Long Path mean-
ders through fascinating countryside, past pic-
turesque water falls, unusual fossil beds, historic
shrines, ancient Indian village sites, old mills, for-
gotten villages or magnificent panoramas. The
route has been plotted so that the entire way is-
one of delight to him who loves Nature.

Eventually we plan to record in some way the
significance of each point of interest along the
way. The trail has been routed as far as possible
along existing ways. Thus most of it is already

ch oose.’ "

ADVENTURING ALONG THE LONG BROWN PATH 543

passable, following as it does old carriage roads,
military routes, Indian trails, fishermen’s trails,
even cowpaths and deer runways. It is available
at many points to boat, train, trolley and bus lines
so that a trip of a few hours or several months
may be planned with real convenience. Coopera—
tion with other hiking clubs and scout troops is
being secured for maintaining the wooded trails
and establishing markers and trail guides.

Winter Activities

A well organized outing club is in a position to
do a great deal toward organizing public opinion
in order to stimulate activity in special fields.

Feeling the need of increased and better or—
ganized activity in the field of winter sports which
had been sadly neglected in the Mohawk Valley
region, the hiking club sponsored a winter sports
committee designed to crystallize sentiment to—
ward a more active participation in that field, par-
ticularly in the division of skiing. As a result of
this effort snow trains were planned for trans-
porting large groups of people to distant snow—
fields when local conditions were not good. The
committee selected by the hiking club formed the
nucleus of a winter sports club which was formed
and soon grew into a large and very active or-
ganization. Snow trains carrying from four to
eight hundred enthusiasts now run throughout the
winter on a scheduled basis; about ten miles of
ski trails near Schenectady have been constructed
and are used by large numbers of people during
the season. In—
struction and
help in con-
structing c o m—
plete ski equip—
ment are avail-
able to those in—
terested; ski
schools are held
on the local slopes
every week end;
trail maps are is—
sued and weekly
columns on win—
ter sports are
carried by the
local newspapers
edited by mem—
bers of the club.

One of the
many interesting

Courtesy Trails Magazine

outgrowths of these activities, may be mentioned
because it illustrates.the vast influence a small
group of enthusiasts may have if they work along
fundamental ideas. The destination selected by
the club for its snow trains was a little mountain
village at the end of the trails. After the last
hunter has left in the middle of November the
village folk would figuratively hibernate, to stay
in that state until the opening of trout season in
the spring when they would start looking forward
to the coming tourist season of the summer. From
this former state of lethargy one could hardly
recognize the transformation effected as a result
of the activity caused by the winter sports en—
thusiasts. Following close behind the enthusiasm
of the city folks the mountaineers of all ages are
developing into exceptionally line skiers. The de—
mand for food, lodging and transportation has
converted the winter season into one of more ac—
tivity than in the summer and the throngs of
youngsters swarming over the hills and mountains
during every available minute throughout the win—
ter is a most promising sign for the future of
those mountains, because of the mental and phy-
sical stimulus which such activity engenders.

Making Equipment

Interest in the more strenuous forms of out—
door recreation is followed by a desire to secure
the best types of equipment that the individual
can obtain. By far the most economical and at.
the same time the most satisfying source for get—

 

544 ADVENTURING ALONG THE LONG BROWN PATH

.ting equipment such as tents, sleeping bags,

parkas. socks, is to make them.

Much thought, experimentation and time have
been expended by the Mohawk Valley Hikers in
developing some unusually line articles of equip—
ment. Since a number of the items are original
developments. patterns and instructions have been
prepared which are available to those interested.
Thus, articles which, if they had to be, purchased,
would be available to only a few because of their
high price, are within the reach of every one be-
cause of the small cost of the materials. An in-
teresting by-product of this activity has been the
experience the individuals have gained in plan-
ning, cutting and sewing the articles. For some of
the girls and most of the boys it has been their
first sewing lesson.

Having discovered a source of spinning wheel
yarn in the mountains north of Schenectady, a
number of the girls in the clubs are making
woolen socks and mittens of unexcelled quality.
Because of the large demand for raw material oc-
casioned by this activity in making equipment the
club makes it a practice to keep on hand a supply
of the material which is not available in the local
stores. This is passed on to individuals as they
need it at cost.

Considerable time and experimentation has been
devoted to the development of light weight equip—
ment and compact and well-balanced grub lists.
As a result of this effort complete equipment for
a comfortable sojourn of seven days in the wil—
derness weighs but thirty pounds. Thi's equip—
ment includes every item for comfort and is all
contained in a ruck sack of the type equipped
with a carrying frame. Bulletins carrying this in-
formation are issued from time to time by the
hiking committee.

Preserving Natural Beauty

One of the natural interests closely associated
with the love of the out-of-doors is an active de-

‘ sire to preserve the areas in which the greatest

enjoyment is obtained. In most instances the
closer‘the territory resembles the primitive wil-
derness the more perfect is the pleasure experi—
enced by the true hiker.

In our country there is a constant encroachment
of commercial interests into the few remaining
areas of natural unspoiled woodlands. Commer-
cial enterprise, road builders and other groups
which combine to “tame” or destroy the forests
must be held in check if the natural beauty and

its accompanying quiet and restfulness is to be
retained.

One of the most active committees in the hik-
ing club is that one dealing with conservation. Since
its formation five years ago its various members
have been exceptionally active in the field, and
with the facts uncovered by this actual research
their work has been very effective. It has been
said with pardonable pride that there is a field
crew of Mohawk Valley Hikers doing some form
of conservation research every week end throngh-
out the year.

During several election campaigns when com-
mercial interests threatened to overthrow safe-
guards in the State Constitution which protect
the state forest preserve, flying squadrons of hik-
ers, equipped with pamphlets explaining the true
facts of the situation and moving pictures, lan-
tern slides, photographs and other paraphernalia,
made fast trips throughout the state explaining
the actual conditions of the controversial matter,
backing up their contentions with the facts and
the knowledge they had acquired by actual con—
tact with the issues in the field. As a result of
these actions and the contacts made among mili—
tant conservationists. the local group has had the
satisfaction of knowing that their arguments were
potent by seeing their antagonists lose their issues
before the electorate of the state.

The experience gained in the fields of photog-
raphy forestry, the working out of scenarios in
producing coherent movies of their subjects and
the invaluable training in public speaking which
result from this form of activity are of immea—
surable value.

Many of our well-known writers have urged
the importance of conservation. Here are two in—
teresting quotations:

“God has lent US the earth for our life. It is a
great entail. It belongs as much to those who are
to come after us and we have no right, by any-
thing we do or neglect, to involve them in any
unnecessary penalties, or to deprive them of the
benefit which was in our power to bequeath.”-—-—
Ruskin.

“All nature cries out that life must exist upon
life, that one tree must grow upon the mould of
another, that for each green blade of graSs an—
other blade must die. It is not against a wise and
necessary destruction that the God of all nature
cries out. The crime—greater than all other-s
crimes—is destruction without cause."—.Ianms
Oiivrr C itrwood.

 

s Tm: HOLIDAY season approaches there is one
A engagement to which we look forward with
particular pleasure, and that is our show at

the Pennsylvania Institution for the Instruction

of the Blind, or as it is more usually known, the
Overbrook School for the Blind, Philadelphia.

 

It all started several years ago when we be-
came interested in the work of the school through
a friend and felt we wanted to do something for
the children there. At that time we were giving
public performances of our marionettes in our
studio in Philadelphia, so we decided to invite a
group of children from the Overbrook School in
for a special show, reserving the studio just for
them. As transportation was a problem there
were never more than fifteen or twenty in the
first groups, and the children were chiefly from
the kindergarten, first and second grades. We in-
vited these young children for two reasons—partly
because we had specialized in a group of shows
created eSpecially for young children from three
to eight years and which had been very well re—
ceived, and partly because the older children at
the school had concerts, lectures and plays they
could enjoy, but there seemed to be nothing very
exciting for the little ones.

That First Performance !

The day of the show arrived. Everything was
ready. The whole idea was an experiment for us.
and we learned afterwards that the teachers from
the school shared our hope that the children
would enjoy the show, and our fears that it miglit
be a failure. But we were all willing to try! I
think we’ll never forget that first performance!

We had selected for our program part of the
circus (such acts as the children could “hear” as
well as “see”) and a' play, “The Gingerbread
Boy.” Two o’clock came, and with it the children.
They filed in quietly and settled
themselves. The house lights went
out, and the footlights came on.
Overture! Curtain! And Toto, the

Marionettes for Blind Children

By ELIZABETH HAINES

marionette clown, was putting his dog, Tony,
through all sorts of ridiculous tricks. At first
everything was quiet, but as the strangeness wore
off and the children began to understand what
was happening, their excitement grew and grew,
until by the end of the show they were laughing
and applauding just as though they had really
“seen” it. They loved it: We had made them
happy, and when we realized it we were both very
near tears. I’ll never forget how they crowded
around and as with one voice cried, “Oh thank
you—thank you.”

The Play Must Go On

Their pleasure was so evident that we then and
there decided our special shows for them would
be continued. Throughout that season we had
them in for several other performances at which
they saw “The Three Little Pigs,” “Peter Rab-
bit,” “The Gingham Dog and the Calico Cat,” and
again “The Gingerbread Boy” for another group.
After the first few performances we learned that
attendance at the shows was partly determined on
a “reward” basis—improvement in lessons or
behavior.

Later we moved to the country and discon-
tinued entirely all studio performances. But we

’ felt that our shows for the blind children must go

on, so we suggested that since they couldn’t come
to us, we’d take our show to them. The first year
we performed at the school we set up the stage in
the kindergarten class rooms, and gave “Hansel
and Gretel,” with music from the opera. All the
children in the kindergarten, as well as those up
to and including the fourth grade (and as many '
more as could crowd in) saw this show. After the
performance we permitted some of the children
to handle the figures, and it was touching! to hear
them say, “Look at her apron,” or “See Hansel’s
wooden shoes.”

Do blind children really enjoy performances they
cannot see? Read this story and learn the answer.

545

 

546 MARIONETTES FOR BLIND CHILDREN

It was at this show, too, that a very amusing

thing happened. While we werc busy showing the
figures to a group of children back stage, an
equally interested group was examining the-pro-
pertics on the stage itself, .which was still set
from‘the last scene. All went well while they ex—
amined the candy cage, the gingerbread house,
and the flowers and windows of candy and sugar.
But when they came to the magic oven, indignant
voices were raised in protest. When we went to
see what was wrong, the situation was almost out
of hand, for the children in all good faith were
saying “Magic door, open. Open magic door,”
just as they’d heard the witch say, and they were
in a perfect fury of indignation because the oven
door refused to respond to the magic formula!
Peace was restorcd when we hurriedly explained
that the magic door had refused to obey because
it was confused by too many commands, but if
they would come up quietly, one by one, and give
the command, it would open. 80 for about ten
minutes, while they filed past, We pulled the hid—
den string which opens the magic door, and they
firmly believed it was through their power, and
their’s alone, that this miracle was wrought!
. The next year the performance was held in the
school’s large auditorium, and everyone came
from the kindergartners to the advanced students.
Our program consisted of three short numbers—
“Alice and the Caterpillar,” “The Gingham Dog
and the Calico Cat,” “Madame Cow, Magician”
(an educational skit on the health values of milk)
and a play—“Little Black Sambo.” Of course,
with such a large audience, groups backstage
after the show were out of the question, but We
did go over to the kindergarten class rooms after-
ward. There the children all sat around on the
floor in a circle,
while Mr. Haines and
I sat on the outer
edge. Then, one by
one, they took turns
a s k i n g questions.
Here are some of the
things they wanted
to know:

HanselI Gretel and the

Witch were given an
enthusiastic reception

“How old is Toto ?”

“Did the dog and cat rcally eat each other up ?'
“Were they real tigers? They sounded real.”
“Where are all the marionettes now i”

“I was frightened about the tigers, but I knex
you wouldn’t let them bite me.”

“What made the bumping noise in the milk
show?”

“I like it when the tigers hght.”

When we answer their questions—some of
them posers for we try to keep the illusion that
the marionettes are real, that they’re really alivc.
For instance, when onc little boy suggested that
perhaps the Gingham Dog and Calico Cat might
have run away, we agreed that it was possiblc,
and when he offered to look for them we told
him if he saw them anywhere around the school
grounds we’d certainly like to know about it, and
this he just as solemnly agreed to do.

After the questions were over, and we were
saying goodbye—surprise! They presented us
with some gifts they’d made—a calendar from
the first grade for Mr. Haines, and one from the
second grade for me” A few days later we had
the biggest surprise of all when we received a
note from the school’s superintendent saying he
was forwarding some letters from the children,
some of which would be in Braille. We looked at
each other, wondering how we were going to read
Braille, but when the letters arrived we found
that the teachers had very carefully written under
each Braillc sign just what it meant; and what we
liked especially was that they’d included mistakes,
too. These Braille “thank you” letters were writ-
ten by the younger childrcn; the older children
sent us typewritten ones. The thought behind

(Continued on page 566)

 

 

Recreation at the Elmira Retormatory

INCE THE origin of our
S penal system in this coun-

try in 1789, many attempts
have been made by educators
and penologists to devise meth-
ods for the rehabilitation of the
delinquent youth. Never, how-
ever, has emphasis been adequately placed upon
recreation as an important phase of penal treat-
ment.

One of the recent innovations at the Elmira
Reforn‘latory has been a recreation program
which is not only extensive in its scope but which
parallels the academic and vocational projects in
importance.

The keynote to recreation at Elmira is diversi-
fied activity. This is so arranged, organized and
supervised as to satisfy the individual’s interest,
needs and ambitions. The program begins immedi-
ately after breakfast and continues until 10:30
P.M. The inmate is not only permitted and en-
couraged to participate but must take an active
part in some phase of the program during the
periods alloted to him each week. In the fall,
winter and spring the activities are held in the
gymnasium and consist of basketball, volley ball,
handball, tennis, quoits, shuffleboard, boxing,
wrestling, track, and swimming, and as stated, the
individual may choose his own activities. Com-
petition is keen in these sports and intramural
contests are frequently held to stimulate interest
and to develop fair play on the part of the indi-
vidual and the group.

When the weather is moderate, groups of in-
mates are taken to the large, institutional armory
where two regulation softball diamonds permit
forty inmates to engage in this game. Additional
facilities enable as many more boys to play volley
ball and handball. In the summer, all athletic ac-
tivities are transferred from the gymnasium and
armory to the athletic field outside the walls. The
facilities here are three softball diamonds and one
baseball diamond, one basketball court, two horse-
shoe and five handball courts, shower baths and
a large swimming pool. Twenty-eight inmates
have received instruction in life saving. They have

By JOSEPH F. RILEY, JR.
Director of Recreation

and

T. J. HANLON
Assistant Superintendent

passed an examination given by
a qualified Red Cross examiner
and have been awarded certifi-
cates as life guards. During the
extremely warm days in the
summer, the entire inmate group
is sent into this athletic field and
allowed to participate in the activities and to take
shower baths and swims.

Special Evening Recreation

In the fall, winter and early spring, honor in-
mates and those who are occupied during the day
by activities on the farm, garden, greenhouse, and
in construction and office work, are afforded the
privilege of enjoying a social hour in a room
which is designed for such games as chess, bridge
and checkers. The aCtivities of this group are not
confined to social recreation. They are also per-
mitted to go to the gymnasium to take part in
their favorite athletic sports, and in the summer,
they enjoy outdoor sports. The individuals com-
posing this class, over two hundred in number,
are permitted to go to the athletic field each Sun—
day morning after church services to engage in
games under leadership.

The benefits derived by the individual and the
group from such athletic games are many.
Through such activities they are given an oppor-
tunity for self-expression as well as an outlet for
their pent-up energies. The games also strengthen
the individual physically, mentally and morally.
Athletics, shower baths and swimming on the ex-
tremely hot summer days relieve the tension so
common in penal institutions at this time of the
year and create a generalifeeling of cooperation
and respect on the part of the inmates toward the
personnel of the institution.

Varsity Sports
Inmates who show exceptional ability in the in-
tramural contests are placed on the varsity basket-
ball and baseball teams. These teams compete
with the outstanding high school, church and in-
dustrial teams of the community. The varsity
games are held on Saturday afternoons and holi-

547

 

548 RECREATION AT THE ELJ’HRA REFORMATORY

days. The entire population is allowed to attend.
Competitive sports of this sort furnish good en-
tertainment for the population, bring the players
in close contact with normal boys and encourage
good sportsmanship.

During the winter season, in conjunction with
the basketball games, boxing bouts, which are
broadcast over radio Station WESG, are staged
in the gymnasium before the inmate population.
The participants are required to pass a rigid phy-
sical examination before being allowed to train.
In matching the boys for these contests, their
weights, physique and ability are taken into
consideration.

Field Meets

On Decoration Day, Fourth of July, Labor
Day and on similar occasions, competitive drills
and games are conducted on the athletic field.
These contests consist of dashes, relay races,
jumping, throwing, military drills, and many other
stunts. Practically every inmate participates in
one of these activities. The outstanding benefits
derived from such projects are group participa-
tion and cooperation which are so essential to
resocialization.

Each day the results of all major seasonal
sports, such as boxing, basketball and baseball are
posted on a bulletin board which is conspicuously
located in the institution so as to give the inmates
an opportunity to keep in touch with their f avor-
ite fighters and teams, as well as to acquire en-
thusiasm and interest in major sports in general.

The Libraries

The Reformatory has three libraries: the voca—
tional, the school, and the institutional libraries,
all of which are centrally located and to which all
boys have access.‘Through
this medium they explore far
off countries, read about the
lives of great men, and in-
crease their knowledge of a
multitude of subjects. Popu—
lar magazines supply them
with fiction. Daily newspa-
pers are also at their disposal.
The librarian guides and
counsels the boys in the selec-
tion of the proper kind of
reading matter. Books may
be read in the library during
the recreation period or may

communities.

"The environment ot the penal institu-
tion is abnormal at best; over sixty per
cent ot the inmates committed to the
Elmira Retormatory are, physically, men-
tally and socially below normal; many
ot these boys have never participated
in recreation programs in their local
Recreation,
variety ot wholesome situations, re-
treshes the body and mind, develops a
socially cooperative attitude on the part
ot the individual and the group. These
characteristics are essential it the other
phases ot the correctional program are

to be ettective."—Dr. F rank C. Chris-

tian, Superintendent. Elmira Retormatory.

be taken to the room to be read at night. Instruc-
tors in the various trades recommend the use of
certain books pertaining to the subject matter in
the trade schools. These books of technical in—
formation may be read during the shop period or
in the room.

Dramatics

Dramatics play an important part in the life of
an inmate in developing self—expression and mod-—
ulation of voice and poise. All boys showing an
interest in dramatics and having ability are given
special training under a competent director. Sev-
eral times during the year the dramatic club pro-
duces plays which are staged for the entertain—
ment of the inmates and the invited public. Clubs
and entertainers from civil life are also brought
to the institution as often as is practicable to en-
tertain the boys. During the past few months the
boys have enjoyed the following: the Grotto Min-
strels of 1Watkins Glen; “\Vhittlin',” a three-act
comedy by a local dramatic club; “Creaking
Floors," a drama produced by a church of Elmira
lleights, and three one-act comedy hits by the
Electra Players of Elmira.

In addition to the special dramatic presentations
by local groups, on alternate Fridays entertain-
ment is furnished by the Emergency Relief
lureau of the City of New York. The amuse-
ment furnished by this Bureau has consisted of
vaudeville, comedies and dramas. These produc-
tions were of a high type and were well received
by the inmate population.

Radio Broadcasts

Approximately twenty-four inmates take part
in each radio broadcast over Radio Station W ESG
of Elmira during two one-half hour periods each
' week. These radio programs

have created an interest on
' ‘the part of the individual in-

mates and have acted as an
incentive for them to develop
their special talent in singing,
dramatics and music, in order
that they may take part in
these programs. Our “fan”
mail in response to these
broadcasts has been surpris-
ing both as to numbers and
the area covered.

In so far as activities are
concerned in the rooms, in—

through a

 

RECREATION AT THE ELMIRA REFORMATORY 549

mates are encouraged to relax, to read and to
listen to the radio programs. Boys|confined in the
Reformatory are of a type that cannot endure
continuous mental strain. Study and mental ef-
fort are not required of them during periods when
they should rest.

Hobbies

Everyone should have a hobby, something in
which he takes keen delight in doing and in
which he can excel. Within the limitations of the
institution’s resources and facilities hobbies are
approved and encouraged. Some of'the most
popular hobbies of the boys at this institution are:
reading, handicraft, drawing. boxing, music,
cards, dramatics, singing, chess, checkers, tennis,
painting and stamp collecting. Reformatory of-
ficials have found that these hobbies provide an
ideal form of relaxation for the boys during their
leisure time.

During the National Hob:
by Week of the Rotary
Clubs of America, the boys
exhibited a display of their
work at the local Rotary
Club’s Hobby Fair and re-
ceived twenty~seven first
prizes, thirteen s e c o n d
prizes, ten third prizes and
six honorable mention.

Lectures

From time to time, as a
part of the recreation program, prominent men
and women .are brought to the Reformatory to
address the group on sports, current events, travel
talks and national and international questions. It
has bcen found that these talks develop real in-
terest in civic enterprises and in the activities of
society in general.

by facilitating

Music

Music appreciation is taught in the school to
those boys who have special talent or have out—
standing ability and interest in the fundamentals
of music. Boys who diSplay a special aptitude in
vocal music are placed in one of the glee clubs.
Here they are trained under a competent leader.
Others who show,skill in instrumental music are
assigned to the band and the orchestra. Boys in-
terested in other types of music are placed in the
harmonica band and “hill-billy” orchestra.

On dark dreary days in the summer and win-
ter, the boys frequently go into the auditorium

 

That the "Federal and State Govern-

ments eliminate youthful delinquency
educational, voca-
tional and recreational opportuni-
ties," was the third point of the
eight-point program urged to wipe
out crime by the Attorney General's
Conference on Crime held at Wash-
ington, D. C., in December I934.

 

where they are allowed to participate in a period
of community singing. These songs cheer up the
group and encourage them to forget their troubles.

Motion Pictures

During the vacation period of the School of
Letters, sound motion pictures, both educational
and industrial, are exhibited in the new audi-
torium. Through the medium of these pictures
many journeys are taken by land and sea to the
far corners of the earth. Somc of the most popu-
lar pictures which have already been enjoyed by
the Reformatory population are: “The World's
Fair,” giving a vivid impression of the great ex-
position at Chicago, a complete tour of the spa—
cious fair grounds by land and air; “The Im—
perial Cities,” a descriptive picture showing many
scenes in thc imperial cities of the Orient; “Yel—
lowstone Park On Parade,” a trip to and through
the Yellowstone National
Park; “The Longest Gang-
plank,” a trip to Europe on
a large liner and pictorial
visits to the large European
citics. These travel pictures
were found to be interest-
ing, entertaining and edu-
cational. Industrial films
have been used showing the
manufacturing procedure of
many great plants.

The influence of the mov-
1es as a form of recreation and education is ap—

preciated by educators and penologists. Selected
pictures are shown each Sunday afternoon for
the cntertainment of the inmate population. Every
effort is made to obtain pictures which stimulate
normal mental reactions and urge a desire for the
better things in life. Such well-known produc—
tions as “Judge Priest,” “The House of Roths-
child,” “Little \Vomen,” “The Barretts of Wim-

pole Street,” and “Flirtation Walk,” have been
shown at the Reformatory.

Summary

In the measurement of results, recreation has
been found to be one of the important and most
essential phases of the Reformatory program of
treatment. Recreation, through its many diversi—
lied activities, has contributed to the gratification
of the individual's desires, the development of

group consciousness and the gaining of proficiency.
(Continued on page 567)

 

Cubbing for the Younger Boy

By R. A. BARRY

0R OVER twe1-1ty-Hve years the pub-

lic has been more or less familiar

with Scouting and its sane, healthy, happy out-
door program of recreation and interesting pro-
ject activity combined with community service and
character values. Perhaps many people are less
aware that side by side with this great game for
boys from twelve years up another leisure time
program has been steadily and constructively de-
veloping for the younger boy who, no less than his
older brother, needs a little direction and inspira-
tion as well as occupation for his out of school
hours. This is the Cub Program.

There have been Wolf Cub organizations in
other countries almost as long as Scouting itself
has been in progress, but here in America the Boy
Scout authorities have proceeded slowly along this
line, desiring to be absolutely sure they had the
right sort of program suited not only to the needs
and tastes of. the nine to twelve year old boy but
also to the needs of American family life. To a
greater degree than is the case in Cub movements
elsewhere, Cubbing centers in the home and func-
tions largely in its own neighborhood, utilizing
natural play groups and small comradeships
already established.

The Cub plan as now functioning and amazing-
ly successful both so far as the small boy and his
parents are concerned, is the result of years of

550

careful study and thought and long
experimentation in selected groups in
various parts of the country. It was not until
1933 that the program was made available to the
whole Held, and since then has become so widely
popular and caught on so fast that there seems no
doubt that it is fullilling a real service in the life
of the younger boy. According to latest ngres
available there are nearly 10,000 Cub Leaders in the
country today, and 53,570 Cubs, organized into
2,297 Packs, and still growing and going ahead.
When Cubbing was hrst started some doubt
was felt as to the effect on Scouting, some leaders
feeling that a younger boy movement might con-
ceivably take the edge off the youngster’s appe-
tite for Scouting by the time he was of Tender-
foot age. The contrary has been proven to be the
case. The Den Chief, an outstanding Scout lent
from a Troop to help the Den Mother and Den
Dad make the Cub Den a success, is an authentic
hero to the Cubs, keeps alive their eager enthusi- ,
asm to be Scouts themselves when the time comes. '
The program itself, though equally active and out- .‘
doorsy, equally based on learning by doing, played 
like Scouting as a great game and not a dull edu-
cational task, is sufficiently different so that it «'
does not overlap in any way with Scout delights, '
adventures and projects, to be looked forward to“:
and later claimed to the full.

CUBBING FOR THE YOUNGER BOY 551

Cubbing makes allowance for immature bodies
and minds, does not expect the strenuous activi-
ties or steady conccntrations or judgment which
the Scout age boy is able to cope with and de-
velop. It is sheer fun and is so regarded by the
Cubs themsclves. It interests them in all sorts of
hobbies. stamp collecting, nature collection, leather
work, secret code making, simple dabbing in wood,
paint and clay, but it does not insist on sticking
hard and fast to any of these activities, and gives
plcnty of chance for physical rccreation and re-
laxation. “The Cub can do stunts” is a part of
thc program, “stunts” varying at will from somer—
saulting. leap frog, ball playing, running broad
jump and the like to archery, simple and safe
guarded swimming and rowing. The Cub wres-
tles with boys of his own age, plays ga111es—eve11
noisy games, when the need to blow off steam is
011 him. He does his camping in back yards and
vacant lots, but it is ust as thrilling and romantic
to him as wilderness camping and overnight hikes
are to the Scout. He gives “shows” to which the
neighborhood are invited, goes on picnics with
Den Dads and Mothers and other Dads and Moth-
ers of thc vicinity. The whole thing is normal,
jolly. and an amazing preventive of lawless mis-
chief such as Satan is so proverbially ready to
provide for idle hands and active brains.

In Cubbing there is always something to do.
The Cub puts as much of himself and his small
crude skill into whittling
' whistles, making rough

but sailable boats, pro— ‘. I "La-r

lopsided pieces of clay
pottery, or pasting up a
weirdly illustrated scrap- 1“ I
book, as the Scout does
in turning out model air-
planes, reproducing ani—
mal tracks or building
and setting up bird
houses. The whole pro-
gram is linked and pro-
gressive, paves the way
from good Cubbing to
equally good Scouting.

The S c o u t habit of
friendliness, serviceabil-
ity and good sportsman—
:ship is also incipient in
the Cub’s training. He
has no elaborate code of

ducing perhaps rather  "ti-4
' <3:

conduct enjoined upon him. He is simply ex—
pected to “Be Square,” play the game, to “Do His
lest,” to be cheerful and helpful and loyal and
obedient, at home, in school, in Pack or Den meet-

ing, wherever he is. Above all he is expected to

“Give Good Will,” which is about all any one can
ask of a youngster under twelve.

As in Scouting recreation gocs hand in hand
with health. The ideal set before the Cub is a
clean, healthy strong body, a body fit to carry him
wherever he wants to go, literally and Figura-
tively. Too much activity is avoided as well as- too
little. Health checks at frequent intervals are en—
couraged; remedial defects are reported to parents
which otherwise might have easily gone neglected ;
health habits are also inculcated—the care of teeth,
nails, eyes, ears——all of it. Somehow the smart
little Cub uniform seems to contribute to this,
makes something to live up to.

How does Cubbing start in a community?
Often these days from parents themselves who
are interested in it as an answer to some of their
own problems with their small sons. Some mother
of the neighborhood, who has the time and the
gifts required, serves as Den Mother, the Den be—
ing the small group which, united, goes to make
up the larger unit, the Pack, under the leadership
of the Cubmaster and the Cub Committee. There
is also a Den Dad, some father of the neighbor-

(Continued on page 567)

 

 

At the Garfield Park Recreation Center

is given assistance by the staff of the center of

HE FALL and winter activities at the Garfield
which P. H. Leiderman is director.

Park recreation center in Chicago, Illinois.
are many and varied. In planning the pro-
gram, individuals of all ages are taken into con-
sideration and any group desiring to form a club

Indoor Activities
The following schedule of activities shows the
use of the center from 3 :00 P. M. to 9:30 P. M.:

 

TIME: 3:00 P. M. To 4:30 P. M.
PLACE: THE REFECTORY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Safurday

Girls Boys _ Girls - Boys Girls Boys Teenie-
10-12 years 10-12 years Teenie- 10-12 years 10-12 years W'eenie Age
Handcraft Table Games Weeme Age Table Games Handcraft Circle Games

TIME: 4:30 P. M. T0 6 P. M.

Girls Girls Boys Girls Girls Girls - Boys
12—15 years 15-18 years 12-15 years 12—15 years 15—18 years Scouts
Handcraft Handcraft Indian Lore Table Games Handcraft 1 P. M. to 3 P. M.

Above activities are at the Refectory—Washington Boulevard
TIME: 7 P. M. T0 9 :30 P. M.
PLACE: ADMINISTRATION BUILnIxG
Women Senior Senior W'omen ' Senior Amateur Program
Handcraft Boys — Girls Boys - Girls Handcraft Social 3 P. M. to 6 P. M.
Room 8 B Room_8 B Table Games Room 8 B Refectory Refectory
Club
Sewing Masks and Sewing Masks and
3 P. M. to 10 P. M. Marionettes 3 P. M. to 10 P. M. Marionettes

1 P. M. to 10 P. M. 10 A. M. to 6 P. M.

 

Outdoor Activities

The center promotes sUCh sports as casting, ten-
nis. softball, horseshocs, roque, football, soccer
football, rugby, and volley ball.

Skating and tobogganing are enjoyed when the
\vheather permits. On January 17th at Garfield
Park lagoon an ice carnival and Mardi Gras was
scheduled with the following program:

(I) 100 yard dash with home-made skis made
of barrel staves (boys and girls)

(2) 220 yard (lash ski race regulation type (men
and women)

(3) Snow shoe race—100 yard or 220 yard dash
(men and women)

(4) Hand sail race—100 yard race (boys and

Art Department. A large number of subjects
are offered through the art department, including
classes in pencil, charcoal, pen and ink drawing,
water color and oil painting. poster lettering. com-
mercial advertising, figure construction, costume
design, cartooning. portrait, landscape and mural
painting. Classes are held three times a week.

Dramatic Department. The dramatic depart—
ment conducts classes one evening a week from

7:00 to 10:00 P. M.
Crafts Department. The crafts department holds

classes three times a week from 3:00 to 10:00
P. M. to give instruction in wood, tin and linoleum
projects and in making model airplanes.

Arl’ Galleries. The rotunda and second floor are

open daily from I :00 P. M. to 5:00 P. M. and on girls)
\Vednesday and Sunday evenings from 7:00 P. M. (5) Demonstration of wrling. an acient Scotch»
to 9:00 P. M. Lectures are given. game

All of the classes enumerated are free.

552

( C outinucd on page 568)

 

' fashioned songs.

Make Your Recreatidn Creative

look in on one of our student

parties some Friday evening. A hundred or
more young people in the student parlors of the
community church getting acquainted with one
another by guessing what notorious character of
Hollywood, Washington, or gangster-land each
is impersonating. ’ The laughter, free and spon-
taneous, puts everyone at ease.

Now, in small groups, they prepare impromptu
dramatics, each huddle buzzing with plans like a
hornet’s nest. ‘Who is to play the heroine, the
college boy, the villain? The captain of each group
has a slip on which is written in terse phrases
some dramatic situation, and the rules say that
this must be the climax to a five minute two-act
play. Every person must participate—and beyond
that, the sky’s the limit. In come marching
soldiers in hats made out of newspapers found in
the hall. The heroine looks stunning in that lamp
shade for a bonnet, and the villain stalks about
with a bread knife procured in the kitchen. Be
prepared; the results are comedy in the extreme,
and you may literally laugh your sides sore!
Notice that that boy who is usually so timid in his
classes has forgotten himself entirely in the play.
And that girl who yesterday seemed so self-con-
scious steps across the stage with a confidence that
would do well on Broadway.

Then all are down in the social hall for a half
hour of folk dancing, with energy happily ex-
pended to the tune of “W'ay Down Yonder in the
Paw Paw Patch.” Now with the group relaxed
in comfortable chairs around the fireplace for
frappé and wafers, the dancing of flames the only
light, the evening comes to a mellow climax with
an old-fashioned sing of new-

SPEAKING of creative recreation,

Young people leave such a
party refreshed and filled with
that happy sense of well-being
which comes from having ex—
pended one’s energies in self-
forgetting fun. This is what
recreation should be, we will
agree. Should be, yes, but usu-

By ROLLo R. MAY

Mr. May. who is Director of Men
Students at the PeOple’s Church
in East Lansing. Michigan. has
demonstrated that it is possible
for young people to make their
own good times more successfully
than they can buy them. He has
also proved that church
need not be the "dead'I affairs
they so often are!

\

ally is not; for our church and
school recreational functions have
earned the reputation- among many groups of
young people of being boring, dull, empty of
vitality.

Why Are There “Dead” Parties?

‘Why are our parties so often “dead”? There
must be some form of attractive entertainment,
we adults say to ourselves, besides dancing and
the movies. But when we make attempts at put-
ting on such parties in the home, in the church,
and in the school, some how things don’t “click.”
Our young people too often come to tolerate, re-
main to endure, and leave the party with a breath
of relief and a resolve to stick to their dances and
shows.

A little imagination will show us, however, that
it is no wonder that young people do not enjoy
the parties put on for them. Youth is too alive to
sit still while someone in the center of the circle
attempts to drum up interest in a guessing game
that is as dry as the printer’s ink on the page of
the book from which it was gotten! So many
church or school non-dancing parties lack vitality,
and normal youth instinctively shun's that which
is deadening. I have attended parties put on in
churches for young people that were so insipid
that I have thanked heaven for every boy or girl
who clamps his jaw and says, “Nix! You don’t
get me to another affair like that.”

Yet we cannot remain placid while our young-
people run off to beer gardens, frequent the pub—
lic dance halls, and plank down their quarters at a
mediocre movie out of sheer lack of any better
way to spend a Friday evening. This problem of
providing wholesome entertain-
ment for our young people is a
very important one, as every
alert adult well realizes.

And the importance of this
matter is further brought home
when we realize the relation be-
tween the moral life of our
young people and the places of
entertainment they frequent. If

553

parties

 

554 MAKE YOUR RECREATION CREATIVE

all your son or danghter can find for amusement
is dancing in beer gardens or absorbing-a steady
diet of sex-stimulating movies, then all the preach-
ing or moral counsel in the world won’t do much
good. We can be sure of this, I am confident;
that promiscuous petting is a result often of the
fact that our young people have nothing more in—
teresting to do. The necking party is much more
likely to follow a flat, empty evening than a happy,
really recreative one.. It is a truism to say that
giving young people opportunity for wholesome
yet interesting recreation in which their social
spheres are enlarged and their social courage de-
veloped, is the best single aid we adults can fur-
nish to their developing the good and desirable
type of personality.

And this kind of recrea—
tion, I firmly believe, is not
so difficult of attainment as
is often assumed. Our experi—
ment in creative recreation at
Michigan State College we
proffer as a suggestion along
this line.

Where Recreation
Is Creative

At Michigan State we
found our student program
saddled with the conventional
type of church recreation—a
weekly party of pointless
games put on in a stilted
atmosphere which left everyone at the end of the
evening disgusted with himself for having come.
The parties persisted as long as there were stu-
dents left who had not found other places to go.
It was a “survival of the most unfit.” And regu-
larly along in the spring. the social program sim-
ply lay down and expired.

But the need on the campus for inexpensive,
wholesome recreation not of the movie and dance
type was great. What to do!

A group of students, organizing itself into a
“Social Cabinet,” and working with me, wrestled
determinedly with the problem for several weeks.
Out of our efforts was born the “Student Club,”
an organization, to quote from its present pur-
pose. “of students interested in creative, varied,
democratic, and inexpensive social activities.”
The principles upon which the Club was based
seemed to be answers to urgent needs, for our
brain—child grew like a bean-stalk, until now, less

"As for the good life. the gay and
gracious liteI the tun. the glamour
and the admiration. they will come
iust as surely from social activities
that need talte no large amount of
cash, from forms of self-enhance-
ment which malte one admirable
and‘ good company. independent
of what must be done for a living.
Where there is surplus money for
these things it is best spent first
not in the goods that perish. but
on that inner wealth which lasts as

long as lite."—Marjorie Barstow
Greenbie in The Arts of Leisure.

 

than a year after its birth, its membership of over
four hundred makes it the largest organization on
the college campus. i

These four principles on which the club is
founded will bear elaboration: That recreation
should be:

First, creative—and here, of course, we are at
the heart of the matter. Every social program
must have its creative function, be it folk dancing
or the learning of a new step in ballroom dancing,
or impromptu dramatics, or stunts around a camp-
fire, on a hike. For we have learned that creativ-
ity, and nothing else, causes pe0ple to forget
themselves. This is the “sine qua non” of any
successful party.

Second, varied—in the re—
spect that all imaginable sorts
of entertainment are 'put on
at the parties every Friday
night: folk dancing, treasure
hunts, skating or swimming
parties, scavenger h u n t s,
hikes and steak roasts.

Third, democratic—the aim
being that every person be-
come acquainted with as
many others as possible dur-
ing the evening. Students
may come with or without
“dates,” but the exclusively
two-by-two stuff is taboo.

Finally, the fotlrth princi-
ple: inexpensiveness. The
customary financial outlay per person attending
the party is ten cents, to cover refreshments and
incidentals. A hayride or party in which an or-
chestra must be hired costs more, of course, but
the Student Club never goes into entertainment
where the expense would prohibit anyone’s at-
tending. The cooperative, non-profit plan pre-
vails. After all, why”L does one have to put out a
few dollar bills in order to have a good time?
Make your good time, we say, instead of trying
to buy it.

Now a certain feeling of belonging is necessary
in a social group, which serves, among other
things, to stimulate the cooperative spirit in each
individual member. 50 we have a membership in
our Club, but the fees are purely nominal——
twenty-fch cents a term or fifty cents a year.

Fortunately the student rooms in the church
where the Club had its birth furnish adequate

(Continued on page 563)

uTo Transcend Himselt"

OOKING OVER some notes made

L several years ago at a Na-
tional Recreation Confer-

ence, I ran across this portion
of a sentence from an ad-
dress given by Rabbi Silver,
“an unsuppressable yearning
to transcend himself —-—that’s
divinity.”

This yearning has lifted
man throughout the ages to
h e i g h t s greater than his
dreams. He has transcended
himself and will continue to
do so. ,This thought should
give added incentive to those of us who are work-
ing with character building organizations. We
should make our programs so rich in content, so
broad in concept and so discriminating in stand-
ards that they always offer opportunity for man
to “transcend himself.” This can be accomplished
only by accepting a few honest “rules of the
game,” a few sure standards and by “hewing to
the line.”

No “Dead-End” Approach to Sports

In athletics, starting with standards of fair play,
good sportsmanship, adherence to rules, by mak-
ing no concessions, accepting no deviations, we
can progress to unknown accomplishments. This
we accept without question. There is no dead end
approach to swimming, to baseball or to any of
our accepted sports. There is only one way to
play baseball and that is the right way. The sand
lot pitcher of today is learning the game with the
same rules, the same techniques that he will use
as the hero of the big league of tomorrow. In
other words, the sand lot baseball team offers the
young player an opportunity to “transcend him-
selff’

This should carry through all our work and
particularly should it apply to the arts and crafts.
In some instances it does, as in the folk schools of
the Southern Highlands, some of the Settlements,
the State Program of New Hampshire, the VVest—
Chester County Workshop and others which might

By CHESTER G. MARSH
Director of Arts and Crafts
Girl ScoutsI Inc.

 

For a number of years Mrs. Marsh
was director of the Westchester

County Recreation Commission and
later became director of theyVest-

chester County Workshop
has become so widely known. She
is thoroughly familiar with the prob-
lem of the arts and crafts in the
field of municipal recreation.

 

be mentioned. In general, how-
ever, there is a tendency on the
part of leaders to use craft pro-
grams as entertainment, time
killers, and requests for pat—
terns, instruction sheets, and
designs of “things to make
quickly, easily, and cheaply”
which have been. the order of the
day. The Jazz spirit of end-
less motion and sensation has
crept into the quiet cathedral
of beauty. We are missing
the many opportunities for
growth, for abundant living,
for deep appreciative joy that are possible
through contact with the permanent, the endtir-
ing, the forever beautiful principles of true art.
A barrier of fear has separated us from the
fundamental arts and we have said to ourselves,
“painting, modeling, weaving, wood carving are
too difficult. \V e have no Special talent, we must
do something easy.”

Why Not “Play the Game” in the
Arts and Crafts?

Why can’t we apply the same method to this
problem that we do to baseball—not substitute

.“something easy"—- but start in a simple way and

grow as we work? We should plan a program
that will include only those arts and crafts that
have evolved from the needs and aspirations of a
race and that hold unlimited possibilities for ex-
ploration, adventure, and accomplishment. We.
can measure the worthwhileness of each craft by
these questions —“What is its history?” “What
is its future?” “What is the next step?” If it is
a craft that ends with the completion of the arti—
cle, we find ourselves in a cul—de—sac and must
either stop or retrace our steps.

If we take any one of the basic crafts and fol-
low its development back through the ages, we
stir many interests and awaken a new sense of
appreciation. We see primitive man struggling to
make the business of living less difficult. He makes
pots of clay, baskets, and mats of rushes, garments

‘ 555

550

of skin and woven fibres, shelters of wood and
weapons of bronze.

Through the ages, like a rainbow thread, we see
the yearning to transcend himself, refining, polish—
ing, decorating and beautifying each article. At
first we see a vague, groping effort to reproduce
the lilt of the bird song, the rhythm of the waves,
the contrast of sunlight and shadow in the form,

design, and color of the things he creates. Graduj

ally he becomes more proficient, more resource-
ful, and the blue bird's song reaches us through
the rich blue glaze of a poreclain vase, the waves
ebb and flow in the purples and blues of an Ori—
ental rug, and sunlight and shadow flicker in the
pattern of a woven basket or rush mat.

Crafts Offer Rich Opportunities

Three rules governing 'our selection of craft ac-
tivities would give the maximum opportunity for
growth and development; they are:

I. No copying—that is, no tracing of design,
copying Of pictures or models. All work must be
honestly original. _

No assembling—no putting together of cut-
out pieces of material.

3. No imitation.

’)

“I

This

"To Y‘RANSCEND HIMSELF" I

means the honest use of materials without at-I
tempting to make paper look like wood or cloth
to look like leather.

Let us look at our craft program as a rich op-
portunity for the acquirement of new interests,
new skills, new horizons, rather than from the
standpoint of making quickly, small inexpensive]
articles to “take home to mother.” I

The Girl Scout program incorporates a close]
tie-up of the crafts with nature study. Dr. Bertha
Chapman Cady has said many times that it is im—
polite to lean against a tree in the woods unless
we have been properly introduced to the tree. This
thought may be applied to the crafts. Is it de—
sirable for us to weave with cotton, linen, or wool
without being properly introduced to the materi—
7’ A field trip with craft materials if

als.

mind is full of new adventure. To searcl
for the types of wood in the vicinity, study the
grains, coloring and adaptability for carving stirs
a keen enthusiasm for further research. Does th
wood from a selected tree take a finish, and if so.
what finish is best? If shellac, of what is shellac

made? \Vhere found? The surprise that come
when the nature (lirecto

(Continued on page 570)

In their mutual interest in crafts young and
old discover a common meeting ground

 

.q_ I

I! f-II‘C"
ililI'l"! l'r

f3, 6 'l‘
Ila:

w
i

” i

   
 

' " OBBY SHOWS have been at-
H tempted by various or-
ganizations and institu—
tions during the past quarter
century with varying success

a general rule being uppermost. Experience and
: changing emphases have recently led to a more
I practical and helpful type of hobby show in many
I localities.

People out of employment who have taken to a
hobby or craft as an avocation during their leisure
hours are deriving much satisfaction from ex-
changing experiences with others. This situation
has made it easier to interest people in displaying
their hobbies in adult hobby shows and is in itself
suflicient reason for having such shows. The will-
ingness of adults to show their hobbies should be
used as a means of bringing before the com-
munity the results of the study and pursuits of
the local hobbyists. An adult should feel as free
to talk about his stamp collection, the antique
pieces of furniture he has discovered, the doll
houses which he has made, the toy trains with
which he plays, bOws and arrows he creates, and
a hundred other things as he is to converse about
his bridge or golf game.

Madison's Hobby Show

It is impossible to express into words the real
fun and recreation which the exhibitors experi-
enced as participants in a recent hobby show in
Madison, \Visconsin. Many of these individuals
were on hand at the display rooms every evening
the show was in progress, talking with other ex-
hibitors or with someone who showed special in-
terest in their exhibits, comparing their work with
that of others, and trading something of their
own for something of another exhibitor.

Not only the exhibitors but hundreds of other

people were reached by the show, to a lesser de- ,

gree, to be sure, but nevertheless positively. Mem-
bers of the family of an exhibitor feel themselves
a part of the enterprise and are ever ready with
SUggestions concerning ways to arrange the ex-
hibit in question. This close and intimate interest

By DONALD P. NEWTON
Hobbies DirectorI Y.M.C.A.

MadisonI Wisconsin

' and with spasmodic interest, the stunt element as

Why Have a Hobby Show?

makes participants of the entire
family, and there are unlimited
possibilities for parents to in-'
terest their children in the pur-
suit of a hobby. A hobby show
serves to intensify this interest and the desire to
do what dad or mother does, or in the case of a
junior show, increases the interest of parents in
what their children are doing. Many people visit;
ing the exhibits are stimulated to action as a re-
sult of seeing a finished product, a hobby in pro-
gress or a demonstration of the way in which a
particular hobby is carried on.

One ten year old girl was so interested in a
glass garden which was on display at the Madi-
son hobby show that she immediately began to
make her own garden. She secured the help of
her father in making the glass container and
cover. She made the decorations for the interior,
built the terraces, placed little figures about in the
garden, and planted the seeds. Two months after
the adult show this little garden was placed on
display at the junior hobby show.

During the progress of the same adult hobby
show a demonstratiOn of marionettes was given
by one of the members of the adult marionette
club known as “The String Puller's Play House.”
Among the individuals who went to the platform
to view the dolls and ask questions after the dem-
onstration was a young man who had. recently
heard of a group of young people who, like him-
elf, were interested in making puppets. He be-
gan carving and making a marionette. In a few
weeks he had completed a find doll for a contem-
plated production. He was instrumental in spUr—
ring the interest of the other members of the
groUp, and in a little more than two months after
seeing the demonstration he and his group pro—
dUced “The \Vizard of Oz” before an audience of
about 200 people, making enough money to cover
the expenses of the show and to purchase sup-
plies for the next. production.

The enthusiasm created by the Madison adult
hobby show resulted in a discussion of ways for
improving children’s leisure time and methods of
stimulating and conducting hobby clubs and hob—

557

 

558 lVHY HAVE A HOBBY SHOW?

bies for individual children. As a definite out-
growth, a woman’s club took the initiative in-pro-
viding leadership in hobby activities in one of the
schools which had asked for such help. These
women had formerly hesitated to mention any
hobby they might have for fear of being accused
of wasting time they should be spending on their
work and their children. But through the hobby
show they came to realize that the best way to
spend their time with their children was in fol-
lowing hobbies with them.

And After the Show

Hobby and craft groups sprang into being after
both the hobby shows held in Madison in the past
two years. It seemed to be the natural thing to do
after the exhibitors had become acquainted to get
together again. Each meeting called for another.
Many people joined the groups as a result of the
stimulation of the shows. A coin club and home
workshop club were formed following the first
show in 1933. A collectors’ club and an aquarium
society were organized the following year. All of
these groups are live organizations. The fifty or
more members are happier and more contented
than they could be without their groups. Even the
collectors’ club, none of whose members collect
the same things. find many interests in common
though the respective members collect practically
everything from pills and drugs to circuses.

More recently a hobbies council has been form-
ed coordinating the educational features, joint en-
terprises and publicity activities of several of the
local hobby groups. It is composed of a member
from each of the following groups—two garden
clubs, a marionette club, a coin club, a stamp club,
workshop club, collectors’ club, aquarium society,
entomology club, mushroom club, and circus fans’
asssociation.

As accompanying values,
perhaps just as important as
the two main reasons for
having a show, might be
mentioned many t hi n g s
which are important. First
among these are the educa-
tional values. Imagine your-
self standing before a case
containing several fine vio-
lius. This in itself is satis-
fying, but in addition in an
adjacent case you will find
the parts of an unassembled

"Whereas a few years ago hobbies werem
considered by people in general to be
something to be kept under cover, they
are now a subject of common discussion
among friends and acquaintances, are
recommended by psychiatrists and social
workers, group leaders and educators, are
widely written about in new5papers and
magazines, are used as a publicity medium
and are broadcast over the radio. As a
result, many men and women busy in
society or in business life, and heretofore
unwilling to say much about their hobbies.
are bringing them out into the open, and
are making known the ways in which they
spend their hours of leisure."

instrument and pieces of wood in the rough ready.
to be shaped into the various parts of a violin:
Accompanying this display is a description telling-l
how a violin is made from the carving to the test—
ing. If you are a violin enthusiast, you will find
yourself fascinated by this display and by the ex-
hibit of inlay work close at hand showing how the’
pieces are matched, cut, glued and used in a
design. ’

Possibly you are more interested in studying
the history of the United States from its coins
which were minted from 1793 up to the present
time. You may study changes in design and
methods of engraving along with the visualization!
of the historic‘pieces on exhibit. Medals com-
memorating the great events of our country’s
progress are almost sure to be found with a coin
exhibit and are of great interest in tracing the
changes through which our country has passed.

At an announcement by the director of the pro-
gram, you may find yourself one of a group of
people making their way to the gymnasium where
there is to be a demonstration of a model powei
boat equipped with a one-fourth horse power
brass and steel engine run by steam which has
been so carefully made that it can be run at the
rate of 1,000 R.P.M. Here, too, is a demonstra-
tion, accompanied by an explanation, of a little
model plane fifteen inches across the wings which
weighs only one—fortieth of an ounce.

Such demonstrations and talks telling how to
go about carrying on various hobbies make it pos-
sible to stage an exhibit of educational value, to
say nothing of the myraid of finished exhibits by
hundreds of interested hobbyists. The suggestions
made by the judges also have educational value.

Other values are inherent in hobby shows. The
pleasant contact of‘ riders of similar and different
hobbies is most interesting.
The exchange of ideas, the
swapping of information
and materials are important
phases of the hobby show
to the exhibitors.

The values of a hobby
show in terms of relaxation
for the visitor or the ob-
server are of considerable
importance. As an indi-
vidual looks at objects which}
please or which stir his
imagination, his brain is

(Continuch on page 570)

A Famous Lovers’ Party

A merry party planned for Valentine’s
Day when uPan hides behind each gay

trifle and Juno smiles on the party."

Invitations

RITE INVITATIONS on heart-shaped cards or
paper or draw a picture of a heart on a

correspondence card around the following

or similar invitation:

Have you ever met Miss Juliet,
Or the charming Romeo?

Do you know Rowena,
Or the brave knight Ivanhoe?

Then come to Smith’s on Friday night
To our Famous Lovers’ Party;

You’ll meet them every one all right,
And receive a welcome hearty.

Decorations

Almost any type of Valentine decorations may
be used depending on whether the party is to be
held in a large auditorium or in a private home.

Ice Breakers

As each guest arrives he or she is given ten
tiny red candy hearts in a paper bag, also a slip of
paper with the Lover’s Vocabulary arranged as
indicated below.“ In addition the boys are given
a piece of a large puzzle which they will later fit
into the puzzle making a large red heart. The
girls receive a piece of the same type puzzle which

is white. Each guest is instructed to write op-

posite each word on his or her list the correct

word, while the rest of the guests are arriving.
The following is the list:

1. Teeth ears w—Sweetheart
2. Yenho—Honey

3. Reda—Dear

4. Ringlad—Darling
5. Voel—Love

6 Guh—«H u g

7 Skis—-Krss

8. Missrope—Promises

9. Palsrospo—Proposals
10. \Nidnged Singr—Wedding Rings

11. Korenb Ratshe—Broken Hearts

12. Elvo L street—Love Letters
13. Gag men neet Ginrs—Engagement Rings

14. Ageirram Ratla—Marriage Altar
15. Noonmoyeh—Honeymoon
16. Direb—Bride

17. Gorean Mossobls—Orange Blossoms
18. Rovesl Squarrel—Lovers’ Quarrels

Mixers

The Heart Hunt—A large number of candy
hearts have been hidden around the room before
the party starts. At the signal of the leader girls

and boys hunt for them. The leader, before giving

the signal, appoints a captain of each group and
ther than

instructs them that when any person 0
the captain finds some hearts, he or she may not

pick them up, but must sing. a certain love song
to attract the attention of his or her captain who
will in turn come and get the hearts which have

been discovered. The boys may be instructed to
sing some tune like, “I Can’t Give You Anything

But Love, Baby,” and the girls, “Fit As a Fid-
dle,” etc. The leader will call time when he thinks

remaining hearts between

captain of the winning
equally as possible with his or her cohorts.

team must divide as

Heart Mending—The leader instructs the group
n his or her possession a

hat in order that this
(1 a Lovers’ Party
the signal

that each person has i
piece of a broken heart and t

party may be truthfully calle
these hearts must first be mended; so at

of the leader the boys will gather in one corner
and mend their heart and the girls in the other.
The group completing their heart first will receive

an additional heart for each lover.

Hearts For Sale ——i-,The group is told that at a

given signal the market of courtship will throw
open its doors to every lover and that the profit

55‘.)

560 A FAMOUS LOVER? PARTY

derived therefrom will depend only on the skill
and cunning of each lover. Each boy is to try to
buy as many hearts from the girls as possible, and
the girls from the boys. At the close of the mar-
ket the boy and girl having received by barter the
largest number of hearts will receive an additional
award of five. A

Proposal Relay—The boys line up on one side‘
of the room and the girls on the other, facing a
blackboard. The first person in each group is
given a piece of chalk. He or she must go to the
blackboard and write the first word of a pro-
posal, after which he returns to give the chalk to
the second person who goes to the board and adds
another word, and soon until the proposal is com-
plete in one sentence with the last person in each
line adding the last word and the punctuation.
The group having a sentence which is grammati-
cally correct and containing a complete proposal of
marriage will receive one heart as an award to
each lover in the group.

Cupid's Art —Each girl in the group is given a
square of red paper four or five inches on a side
and each boy a piece of white paper just half the
size of the square, i.e., two by four inches. The
girls are instructed that they are to tear this
square into the shape of a heart while holding it
behind their backs and the boys will tear theirs
into the shape of an arrow. They must not take
their hands from behind their backs until the
leader gives them permission. The boy and girl
who in the judgment of the leader makes the best
figure is awarded one heart each. The girls should
be instructed that in order that they may hold
their lovers when they find them they should make

two slits in the hearts for Cupid’s arrow.

Who's Your Lover?-—Each girl is then given the
the anagram of a famous woman lover as listed
below. Each girl in turn writes the anagram on
the blackboard while the boys all try to discover
who her lover is. The first to recognize him is
to be her lover' for the remainder of the party.
As each finds her lover the boy writes the name
of the famous lover he represents on his arrow
and the girl writes hers on her heart. .Then the
arrow is given to the girl who fits it into the slits
of her heart for safe-keeping. The following are
suggested names of famous lovers:

1. Ninmei semou, Y kic me Ousem—Mickey Mouse,
Minnie Mouse.

Beg Liar, Even I angel—Gabriel, Evangeline.

Ozba, Hurt—Boaz, Ruth.

Natyonh, Airtapocle—Anthony, Cleopatra.

9.3-9!”

5 Onapenol, Pejiheson—Napoleon, Josephine.

6. Emoro. Letuij—Roerno, Juliet.

7. Nojh Endla, Caplsrill—John Alden, Pricilla.

8 Nlatocle, Aeienl—Lancelot, Elaine.

9. Iprsa, Nlehe—Paris. Helen.

10. Lhatme, Lohiepa—Hamlet. Ophelia.

11. Tenda. Tribecea—Dante, Beatrice.

12. Cjka, Llij—Jack, Jill.

13. \Vhiataha, Nahrninahe—Hiawatha, Minnehaha.
14. Cunhp, Yudj—Punch, Judy.

Nora: The leader should watch this very closely to
keep this from dragging. If necessary give hints. He
should be the judge as to who answers first. Keep a key
so that there will be no mistakes. Each boy, instead of
calling out loud, may go to the girl and whisper his
answer, so that the rest may not know who they are.

Pantomimes

\Vhen each person has found his lover, each
couple will be given an opportunity to represent
them in pantomime. At least two minutes should
be allowed them to work out their scene. A judge
will select the best and the worst and perhaps the
funniest, etc. Do not judge too strictly, so as to
cause as little embarrassment as possible.

Properties

Two pounds of tiny red candy hearts

A large number of pencils

A sufficient number of small paper bags for the
group

Two large hearts, one white, one red, cut into
smaller pieces as much like hearts as possible

Invitations

Newspapers. pins, paper clips

A copy of the Lovers' Vocabulary for each
guest

Slips with anagrams of lady lovers

Squares of red paper for Cupid's art, also half
size pieces of white for boys

A list of the answers to the vocabulary and the
lovers’ anagrams for the leader’s reference

Decorations

BibliOgraphy

The Cohesbiiry Party Boole, Arthur M. Depew—SZ
Planned Parties with 600 games and stunts. The Cokes-
bury Press, Nashville, Tennessee.

Recreation.

N. R. A. Bulletins.

Parties—a magazine published by the Dennison Mfg.
Company.

Games and Game Leadership, Charles F. Smith. Pub-
lished by Dodd, Mead 8: Co., New York City.

NOTE: For adults interested in giving the dramatic
touch to their Valentine celebration we suggest the fol—
lowing plays:

A Masque of Old Loves. a whimSy by Faith Van Val-
kenburg Vilas. N. R. A. $.10.

Gifts of the Gods, a charming fantasy by Olive M.
Price. \Valter Baker 8: Co., Boston. $.30.

Valentines, by Alice C. D. Riley. (For sophisticated
adult groups). Samuel French. $.50.

 

WORLD

OUR school in Peru,
Rag Bags Simply Nebraska, was ma-

RObeS for cmderena terially assisted by the

_______________.——-—-
Parents’ Club in ac—

______________.——————

quiring costumes for plays and pageants. In
the local newspapers was inserted an ad ask-

ing for old garments that might be altered or
dyed. In response many old fancy dress cos-
tumes and cheesecloth robes were given the
school. These,'stored in an empty closet of a
sewing room until a school program or carni—
val was planned, proved veritable riches, with
which many a Queen Elizabeth or a Pop-Eye
strutted forth in a glamorous and devastating

grandeur.

__________________——
Winter Activities in

Evansville

—_—___———-—‘.-‘

EVANSVILLE, In-
diana, is enjoying a
splendid winter pro—
gram. Chief among
the new facilities is the indoor center secured
through \VPA from the county which will
provide heat and light and will rebate taxes.
The center was formerly an old furniture
factory and there are 190,000 square feet of
space. All except a few small rooms will be
under the jurisdiction of the Recreation De—
partment. The basement will have a rifle and
pistol range; the first floor will house game
rooms for boys and girls; another room will
be equipped with twelve ping pong tables.
There is a very large room with a stage having
a seating capacity of 600 which will serve for
dramatic and musical entertainments. On an-
.other floor there will be horseshoe courts and a
roller skating rink, and on the top floor there
is to be an immense workshop with machinery

and other facilities.

__———_—————-—-'_—

Roanoke Receives
Gift of Land

M'—

IN November, the
Department of Rec—
reation of Roanoke,

Virginia, received
from Mr. J. B. Fishburn and his son, J. P. Fish-
burn, twenty-five acres of level land adjacent
to South Roanoke to be dedicated to park and

AT PLAY

playground purposes. This is the second dona-
tion Mr. Fishburn has made within the past two
years in addition to the great Fairy Stone Park
of 4,500 acres which he recently gave the State
of Virginia. The City Council has agreed to
begin improvements immediately. Mr. K.
Mark Cowen, Director of Recreation in R0—
anoke, writes that in the past six years park
acreage has increased 70 per cent without a
cent of cost to the city government.

_________.__—————--—

At the Communty
Gardens

_________.__—————--—

A unique feature of
the work of the Pub—
lic Recreation Com-
mission of Cincin-
nati, Ohio, was the program of recreational
and social activities carried on last year in co-
Operation with the Community Gardens Com—
mittee. Eight hundred and thirty—five garden—
ers were enrolled as active participants at the
fifteen different welfare garden centers located
in different parts of the city. The activities in—
cluded horseshoe pitching, softball, croquet,
dramatics, dances, checkers and chess. Play-
ground equipment was provided for a number

of the children of the gardeners.

house at Moorestown
boys’ clubs are an out-
standing feature of

the program. There is a 9-14 year old group con-
sisting of four clubs in four different neighbor—
hoods, with an average enrollment of 23. The
14-17 year group consists of three clubs in as
many neighborhoods including one colored
group of ten boys, the other two clubs have a
‘ total of 33 between them. The club for the age
group from 18-25, known as The Bears, covers
the entire township and is bringing together all,
the other groups. with a total of 117 members.
A new club for small boys from 6-9 has re-
cently been organized under the name, The
Cherokee Tribe. The programs vary accord-
ing to age needs, and the senior club has a wide
influence on the social conduct of a larger

561

562 I/VORLD AT PLA Y

group than their own. Their major activities.
are sports, dramatics, and weekly social dances.
In addition, an afternoon period in the gym-
nasium is devoted to the needs of unemployed
boys and young men, while on two nights a
week there are volleyball, basketball and other
activities for young men.

Recreation Leaders in State Parks—An in-
teresting contribution of Pennsylvania to the range
of activities conducted with emergency educa-
tion funds was the development of a program
for training and installing recreation leaders in
state parks. Following a special ten day train-
ing institute at State College early in July 1935,
' twenty men were stationed in fifteen state
parks where they led hikes, camp fire programs
and nature study trips, and conducted educa-
tional and recreational programs as far as
available facilities permitted. The program met
with an enthusiastic response.

At the International City Managers Asso-
ciation—On October let to 23rd the twenty-
second annual conference of the International
City Managers Association was held in Knox-
ville, Tennessee. Less attention was focused
this year on emergency problems than on the
importance for improving administrative tech-
niques and developing long term constructive
programs. An onlooker at the conference could
not fail to be impressed by the fact that the
city managers are doing splendid work for

good government and the enrichment of hu—
man life.

Conserving Our Rivers for Recreational Pur-
poses———A recent letter from Dr. Henry S. Cur-
tis reports that the Huron River for about ten
miles above Ann Arbor, Michigan has seven
bathing beaches, two parks and seven picnic
grounds and camp sites, is a natural haven for
all sorts of wild life. Below Ann Arbor the
Huron River is scarcely used because of city
sewage. Boating is greatly handicapped by
two low bridges which require portages and by
three dams. Dr. Curtis urges that the rivers of
the country are natural playgrounds for boat—
ing, swimming, fishing, skating, picn'icking,
camping and the study of wild life; that they
may be made beautiful and accessible and that
they should be managed for recreational needs.
There are twelve rivers in Michigan which are

natural playgrounds about two hundred mile
in length. Not one of them, reports Dr. Curti
carries any commerce except perhaps a little righ
at the mouth. All existing laws and rules in regar

to navigable streams in Michigan are now bein
codified.

  
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
   
   
    
    
  
   
  

A Drama Tournament in Phoenixville, Pa.
As a result of the drama tournament held las
year in Phoenixville, Pa., at which the dram.
critics of a number of Phoenixville newspaper
served as judges, the Drama League fostere
by the Recreation Department is holding a radi
drama tournament over Station VVIP. A dif
ferent group presents a play each week, and th
judges who served last year are again givin
their services.

A Survey of Educational Films—Th
American Council on Education, 744 Jackso
Place, Washington, D. C., has sponsored th
establishment of the American Film Institut
whose main function will be to advance educa
tion by developing the use of motion picture
and other allied visual-auditory aids in all field '-
of learning. A number of projects are no“ 
under way, one of them the preparation of a I
complete catalogue of educational films in th
United States which is being carried on jointl}
with the United States Office of Education
The American Council on Education request I
that any individuals or organizations that hav
produced, own or have the exclusive distribu l
tion rights to any motion picture which shoula'
be included in this list write to the Council re
questing the film catalogue cards which ar
being used in connection with the study.

Young Men’s Clubs in Niles—Niles, Michi
gan, has two young men’s clubs operated b
volunteer committees. One club uses a build
ing on a piece of school property; the other -_
on property recently acquired by the city. Ou
of frame buildings formerly used as temporar}
schools the young men have made club rooms '1
suitable for dancing, cards, reading, and otherI 
group activities.

A South American City Creates a Depart-
ment of Playgrounds—The municipality of Sao. .
Paulo, Brazil, South America, has passed an!
ordinance establishing a Department of Play-@-
grounds and creating the position of Superin--
tendent of Playground Service.

WORLD AT PLA Y

Nursery Schools——Three hundred college
eacliers, directors, specialists, and instructors
n nursery schools attended the sixth biennial
ronference of the National Association for
Nursery Education held in St. Louis, Missouri,
Dctober 31st—November 2nd. Luncheon discus—
sion groups and general meetings characterized
the conference. More than fifty exhibits were
arranged to show the development of phases of
nursery school activities. Simplicity and unity
were the keynote of the toys, games and hand-
craft shown. Toys for a child, it was stated,
should be detachable as children naturally
want to take things apart. In the field of chil-
dren’s books the current trend is toward sim-
plicity and unity of purpose. The illustrations
are large and their subjects simple.
graphic books showing children of other lands
are good, as are fairy tales. Since its inception
in October 1933, the Emergency Nursery
Schools conducted by the Education Division
of the \VPA have enrolled 140,897 children in
.more than 2,000 centers located in 47 states,
the District of Columbia and Porto Rico. The
average per capita cost per year for nursery
school children was $63.74, exclusive of play

materials much of which has been donated.

A Minister Serves His Community—“Some-
times they say a minister is lazy,” writes Rev-
erend Lane C. Findley of Bayfield, Colorado,
in telling of his community activities. Mr.
Findley is an approved basketball referee, the
only one at the present time in San Juan Basin,
a region about 200 miles in length and from 75
to 100 miles in width. He is coaching a group
of junior high schol boys in the game. Five full
teams practice every afternoon from the high
school. Mr. Findley is also directing com-
munity night programs at two church centers
at which people assemble for an evening’s
program of games and entertainment. A re-
gional library has been installed and from 500
to 600 books, including fiction and religious
books, are being loaned to schools all over

the county. In addition, Mr. Findley preaches
j in three widely separated towns.

Winter Sport Facilities in a National Park——
Throughout the past summer and fall CCC
crews under the direction of forest service of-
ficers have built several new ski trails and
jumps in the \Vasatch National Forest, Utah.

563

The La ook

 

Preparations are being made for a large out-
door skating rink. A semi—circular dam of snow
will be constructed forming a reservoir which
will be slowly filled and frozen around the
edges thus making a firm dam. It will then be
Filled with water. The rink will be made pri—O
marin as an experiment and to furnish a means
of recreation for the CCC camp located there.
It is expected that many townfolk will also

use it.

A Welfare Council Promotes Recreation——
The Delaware County, Pennsylvania, \Velfare
Council has among its divisions one on recrea-
tion. The chairman, vice—chairman and secre-
tary are elected by the division at the annual
meeting in May, and the chairman serves on
the executive committee of the council. The
division is composed of the executive of each
recreation agency of the council and an elected
lay delegate. All voluntary recreation associa-
tions are represented by one lay delegate. The
executive committee of twenty-four is respon—
sible for the major projects of the division and
a youth committee of five appointed from the
executive committee by'the chair works closely
with the county committee for youth adminis—
tration projects. The program of the division
this year is designed to interpret the need of
Communities by making contacts with women's
clubs, PTA groups, service organizations, clubs

and local governing bodies, to stimulate and

help them in assuming planned responsibility
for recreational activities, to cooperate with
adult education and the youth administration

program of the county, especially in relation
to the permanency of recreational activities set

up in it, and to stimulate interest in a county-
wide demand for a recreation board and a pro—
perly qualified director.

Junior Olympics in Cleveland Heights——
Each Saturday morning about 150 boys and

564 IVORLD AT PLA l’

girls of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, congregate
at the high school gymnasium for a program
of physical education activities which is purely
voluntary. More than this, the children pay a
small fee to help defray expenses. A staff of
nine people teach the boys fencing, wrestling,
basketball, boxing, swimming and tumbling,
while the girls are given exercises designed to
maintain proper posture or to correct faults.

Promptly at 9:30 the juniors are lined up
for mass calisthenics, are given a fifteen min-
ute work out and are then sent to various
rooms for instruction. Instructors are so as-
signed that each group or squad has a leader.
Three extra teachers, called free lances, teach
fencing, wrestling and boxing in rdtation to
the squads. A plunge in the pool ends the
morning's program.

What One Juvenile Officer Is Doing—Carl
Cook, probation officer of Klamath Falls, Ore-
gon, has taken an active part in helping to
provide a program of activities for the boys of
the city. He has helped organize the boys from
the various schools into platoons and started
a program of drills to be followed by training
in firearms and camping. \Vith the assistance
of boys he has constructed ski slides and tobog-
gan slides and has assigned certain streets for
toboggan use and had them policed by boys.

A Study Tour—Jay B. Nash of New York
University reports that he is planning several
combination trips to study physical education
and recreation in Europe during the summer
of 1936, one starting on March 3lst, another
June 25th. The groups are being organized on
a non-profit basis.

The Ninth Annual Folk Dance Festival-
On May :4th the New York Branch of the Eng-
lish Folk Dance Society of America presented
its Ninth Annual Folk Dance Festival. Over
450 dancers took part“ from clubs, schools and
organizations of various kinds. From the Pine
Mountain Settlement School of Kentucky carne
the senior class to present the Running Set
which is still enjoyed 'as a social dance in the
mountains of Kentucky. The group also took
part in the English dances which have been
an important part of the community’s social life
ever since Cecil Sharp visited Pine Mountain in
1917. The festival was a beautiful and colorful
affair, and we owe much to the English Folk

. a still larger room paneled in knotted white

'family woodpiles; the light was supplied by Ian -,

Dance Society for making it possible for peopl
today to enjoy the English dances and song
while helping to preserve traditional standard.

   
  
  

A New Shelter House at Millburn—Mill
burn, New Jersey, has a new shelter hous
constructed through CVVA labor of old fiel
stone and used bricks contributed by an in
terested citizen. The building contains show
ers, locker rooms, dressing rooms for swim
ming and athletics, a large room for Crafts an

pine with a beautiful fireplace for club activi
ties. '

The Community Center
as a Neighborhood Club House

(Continued from page 536)

and the hundreds of volunteers who are makin
the center a real neighborhood club house! The
get out of it what they put into it—sincerity, joy
energy. It is their club because they are buildin
the program and bringing happiness to others.

\Ve have visited a well-organized communit}
center from basement to attic. we have aske 1
innumerablequestions and have looked over at
tractive publicity material.

\Ve thank the director and tell him “goo
night” just in time, for the groups are disbandin
and he wants to be at the door to bid farewell t
each participant as he leaves.

As we receive our Wraps from the friendl
checkroom attendant and nod in response to th
doorman’s pleasant “come again” we think, “W’itl "
the director, staff and laymen all working for th
good of the people, such a community center ma
well be called the Neighborhood Club House.”

For further suggestions the following publica-lj
tions of the National Recreation Association ard.

   
  
 
    
   
    
       

1

suggested: 1
RECREATION Magazine—12 issues a year...$2.00 { '«
“The Conduct of Community Centers”. . . . . .25
“Recreation for Girls and W'omen” . . . . . .. 3.00
"Partners in Play” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .75
Recreation Experiments in Rural l

Communities I 5

(Continued from page 539)
their community life. I felt keenly my responsi-I ;

bility as their leader. There were fifty present the ' 1
first night and seventy-five the second. The wood. I
to heat the building was carried to the school froniv

terns from neighboring barns. There had been nor

lnusical instrument so an organ was brought for
the two evenings of my visit. \Ve talked of what
jife together in small places should mean to one
and so to all; we sang old folk songs, and we
played singing games and group games as best
we could between the immovable seats. There
were a number of Europeans in the settlement con-
squently, the Secretary of the School Board came
to sit behind the stove the first evening, his face
stern and forbidding. The name “Community”
suggested the dread word “Communism” and he
intended to discover whether or not I had such
leanings! I received, later, the offer of. his whole-
hearted support in whatever I might undertake.
Before 1 left a nominating committee was
named to take the initial step in developing a
Literary Society. I went back to that community
two months later and discovered that the society
was in existence and was meeting every two weeks
instead of once a.month because of the great en-
thusiasm of the members—and they numbered
sixty. A second-hand piano had been bought for
the use of school and club and that very evening
a program was given of music, recitations and a
one-act play. Since then, through the kindly in-
terest of a \Voman's Club, fifty books have been
given to start a community library. \Vho shall
say that there was not fertility in that little valley

which few people know exists?

A Wading Pool ior Boston

(Continued from page 540)
two months the pool has frequently accommodated
as many as 200 children averaging about eight

 

years in age.

First of its kind in Boston, the project origi-
nated under the direction of Major Roswell G.
Hall, Superintendent of Public Buildings, whose
engineers prepared the plans and supervised the
construction in consultation with \Villard D.
\Voodbury, Technical Adviser to the Department.
Major Hall, Boston ERA Administrator at the
time the project was carried out, is particularly
enthusiastic about the advantages children derive
from this form of recreation.

The total cost to the city of Boston was only
$3,500, the federal government providing the
labor; the estimated cost of replacement without
federal aid is 22,500. Utilization of janitorial
forces in the adjacent municipal building and the
provision of simple but sturdy equipment should
result in almost negligible operation and main--

tenance costs.

   
   

 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 565

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

MAGAZINES

The Research Quarterly of the American Physical Educa-
tion Association, December 1935

A Guide to the Literature of Physical Education, In—
cluding Certain Aspects of Health Education and

Recreation, by Alice Allene Sefton
A Bibliography of Skiing in the English Language,

by Arthur E. Larkin
Bibliography for 1934, by G. B. Affleck

The Survey Midmonthly, December 1935
Project 1—.E34—15, Los Angeles, by Katherine

Glover

The National Parent-Teacher Magazine, January 1936
Youth and the Modern World, An Editorial by

Aubrey Williams
Home Play and Recreation, by Lewis R. Barrett

Hygeia, January 1936
Toys and Games That Teach and 'Train, by Billie
Teel Mette1

The Journal of the National Education Association,

December 1935
Education for Leisure, by Otto T. Mallery

The Record (The Girls’ Friendly Society) January 1936
Mexican Games

Parents’ Magazine, January 1936

Family Fun, by Elizabeth King
Family Movie Guide

The Journal of the National Education Association,

January 1936
T oday’s Youth Problems

Progressive Education, December 1935

Youth and the Government, by Aubrey Williams
Youth Speaks for Itself, by William W. Hinckley

PAM PH LETS

Report of the Chief of the Forest Service, 1935

U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.
Price $.05

A Statement to the Citizens of Millburn Township, N. J.
A Report for 1935

Municipal Finance Legislation 1935, 'by Irving Tenner
Municipal Finance Oiiicers’ Association, Chicago.

Price $.60

Annual Report of the Milwaukee Municipal Athletic As-
sociation, 1935

Snow Sports and Activities
Bulletin No. 21— western Massachusetts Winter

Sports Council

566 WILLIAM H. BURDICK, M. D.

William H. Burdick, M. D.

N THE DEATH of Dr. William H. Burdick the

United States has lost one of its ablest recrea-
tion leaders who combined a deep and funda-
mental philosophy with unusual capacity as an ad-
ministrator and a practical man of affairs. He
saw clearly far beyond the present and worked
for long-time needs but at the same time he did
not neglect the things that needed to be done to-
day and tomorrow.

He was possessed of rare courage and was
ready to stand up and be counted for his convic—
tions. He stood always for high standards in the
recreation movement. He saw clearly that the
recreation movement must be a truly national
movement.

The positions held by Dr. William H. Burdick

give no indication of the extent of his influence

or the depth of his power. However, in addition
to his work as Director of the Baltimore Play—
ground Athletic League and as State Director of
Physical and Health Education of Maryland, he
was an active leader in the American Physical
Education Association and in the National Edu-
cation Association and in the Society of State
Directors of Physical and Health Education. Dr.
Burdick was a natUral leader of men, ready to pay
the price which leadership involves. His leader—
ship never depended upon the positions which he
held. Because of all that he was and because of
his special capacities men naturally turned to him
for advice and for guidance.

Dr. Burdick had dedicated himself to his pro-—
fession. He had opportunities to increase his
financial income, but questions of money did not
particularly interest him. Above all he was con-
cerned to do a good job in his chosen profession.
Because of the integrity of his own character, the
way in which he had integrated his own life, he
gave a greater faith in mankind to all those who
worked with him.

From the beginning Dr. Burdick was associated
with the staff of the National Recreation School
and had a large part in the training of younger
workers. His wise counsel helped in the meetings
of recreation executives and at the Recreation
Congresses. '

When a man like Dr. Burdick goes a successor
may be chosen, but there is never any thought of
filling his position for this of course cannot be
done because he had built a very special position
for himself. -—--HOWARD BRAUCIIER.

-we considered those letters our nicest Christm

Marionettes for Blind Children

(Continued from page 546)
these expressions of' good will and apprciatio
was so lovely to us, it is easy to understand th

   
   
 
    
    
  
  
  

present. You may be sure they were all answere

Making Necessary Adaptations

And now to the technical side of the question
“How can blind children possibly enjoy a mari
onette show 2’” you ask. And 'the reply is, “)‘01
enjoy a drama on the radio, don’t you ?”

Of course, in presenting these shows, we do us
a different techniqUe than usual. First and mos
important, we select plays with action, whose dia
logue carries the plot. Short skits, such as som
of our specialty numbers and acts from the cir
cus, which depend' on sight alone, are neve
presented.

Second, we take the silencer off the stage floo
so the children can hear the figures moving about.
This helps them locate the characters on the stage.

Third, we have our clown, Toto, who acts a
master .of ceremonies, tell them about the play.
He gives a brief description of the setting. and
also the costUmes. This is done in a very gay,
“high” fashion, just as thOUgh we always did it
at every show. Throughout the entire presenta-
tion we want the children to feel that they are ex—
periencing something other children do, and that
there is nothing done in the performance which
is at all different from shows given for people
with normal vision.

l

Fourth, the children that have partial vision and
light perception are seated as close to the stage as
possible. The teachers tell us that many times,
after the show, those who have sat in front tell' :
the totally blind children any fine point they think
they might have missed.

After Toto’s introduction, he bids them good—
bye, the overture plays, and then the fun begins. 
In manipulating the figures and delivering th
lines we make the voice an integral part of theI
action, so by following its sound the children can ’I
get a good idea of the physical action of theI __
figures. Usually about a week before we are t0Ir
be at the school, the teachers familiarize the chil— -
dren with the story on our program, if they don't4 i.-

already know it. This helps to freshen their
memory and enables them to 'have the plot more,‘
clearly in mind.

Last year we were a little worried when we

-'

 

 

 

 

CUBBING FOR THE YOUNGIER BOY 567

realized that as our “Little Black Sambo” pup-
pcts have black velvet “skins” they wouldn’t make
any noise in walking, so we had Toto explain that
“This is ’way over in India, in the jungle, where
everybody walks around in their bare feet, so they
won’t make any noise,” and this explanation seem-
ed very satisfactory!

Apart from the pleasure the children derive
from the shows, there is a very practical angle
which surprised us when we learned of it. Miss
Margaret Phillips, head of the elementary depart-
ment at the school, can tell you about it much bet-
ter than I. She says, “In our school dramatiza-
tion is an important part of the work in the pri-
mary grades. After the children heard the show,
interest in dramatizing increased tremendously.
Class room work became noticeably better and I
am certain it was due to the marionettes. Chil-
dren are, of course, clever imitators, and having
caught the feeling Mr. and Mrs. Haines put into
their plays, they tried to imitate it.”

Miss Phillips also told us that this interest
proved to be in no way transitory. Throughout
the year the work was consistently better. One of

the other teachers told us it was as though a sense
of dramatic values had suddenly been made clear

to the children, and that often, after our shows,
they would act out parts of the program they
especially liked.

The children are so responsive and enthusiastic
that we consider them one of our best audiences.
They are so appreciative and inspiring that mari-
onette groups, amateur or professional, in other
cities, will find their efforts well repaid should
they care' to give performances for similar

schools.

Re reation at the Elmira Retormatory
(Continued from page 549)

Recreation has greatly improved the morale of the
entire inmate body, has reduced disciplinary prob-
lems, developed a more responsive and coopera-
tive relationship with the ofhcials and personnel
and created an environment in conjunction with
the academic, vocational, and religious projects
which is more conducive to fmal rehabilitation.

Cubbing for the Younger Boy
(Continued from page 551)

hood group who is willing to give up his golf on
Saturday afternoons, to take a Den on a small,
but exciting hike, culminating in nutting or swim-

 

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

DIAMOND
PITCHING

HORSESHOES

A few courts of horseshoes will add
much to your playground. Write for
tree instruction booklets on organiz-
ing horseshoe clubs and official rules.

DIAMOND Official shoes and ac-
cessories are the choice of profes-
sionals and amateurs alike. Preferred
because of their excellent construc-

tion—their high quality materials.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
4510 GRAND AVE. DULUTH. MINN.

ming, or to help in rope spinning, bird study, or
in wielding a hammer and saw in backyard car-
pentry or shack building.

It is all kept as simple, as recreational, as whole-
some as possible. At all times the Cub Program
is under the auspices of the local Scout Council
of a given community. In many places, owing to
the growing demand on the part of parents, Den
Mothers’ Training Courses are being conducted
which give helpful guidance not only in the prac-
tical aspects of Cubbing but also in its psycho—
logical values. The Den Mother is vital to the
success of Cubbing. Without her Cubbing would
be a very different and perhaps less happy thing.
The Scout craves a man’s world increasingly. The
Cub age boy is still close enough to his mother to
delight in her comradeship, and he does not object
to her wise, friendly indirect direction of his
activities.

For the Cub it is all simply heaps of fun, the
best game he has‘ ever played. But behind the fun
is a real growing process, the planting of the seeds
of a real ideal, an incentive even at nine or ten
years old to do one’s best, to be a socially minded

and handed individUal.

568

4k

 

CAMPING
WORLD

THE NATIONAL MAGAZINE
OF CAMPING

CAMPING “701th Magazine is . . . outstand—
ingly different . . . authoritative . . . interesting
. . complete . . . written and edited by men

and women whose names command respect.
CAMPING W'onLn is conccrncd with the latest

developments in every phase of “Camping”
. . . Recreation . . . Education . . . Leader-

ship . . . Management.

CAMPING IVoRLD prcscnts interesting ideas
and projects for . . . Arts and Crafts . . .
Outdoor Games . . . Indoor Games . . . Music
. . . Dramatics . . . \Vater Sports . . . Riding
. . . Dancing . . . IVoodcraft . . . Story Tell~

ing . . . Land Sports, etc.
O

INSURE BEING UP-TO-THE-MINUTE BY
SENDING IN YOUR SUBSCRIPTION TO
CAMPING WORLD.

The price is $2.00 per year (eight issues).
One helpful article will repay the cost of the
subscription.

CLIP THE COUPON BELOW AND MAIL
WITH YOUR REMITTANCE. TODAY!

Camping World
11 East 44th Street. New York. N. Y.

Please enter my subscription. Enclosed find $2.00.

POSITION .......................................................................... ..
ADDRESS

CITY .................................................. .. STATE ................ ..
R-Z

KINDLY PRINT

 

 

x.

—~u——u——~— ————_—— _—~———_——*——*

*

l

AT THE GARFIELD PARK RECREATION CENTER

(Continued from page 552)

(6) Parade of decorated sleds by boys and girls
under twelve years of age

(7) Programs by variOUs schools and groups for
trophy
(8) Mass drill and parade of lanterns

(9) Demonstration of hockey given by pro-
fessionals

(_ 10) Figure skating (men and women)

(I I) Couple skating race—220 yard dash

(12:) Dog sled race (boys and girls under twelve
years of age)

(13) Costume parade

(14) Cheer leaders" contest—high schools

(15) Tug-of—war with six men teams

(16) Parade of Hoats on skis

(I7) Ice carnival queen and her maids (will be
chosen)

(18) Parade of schools and groups in costume
for trophy

Make Your Recreation Creative
(Continued from page 55-!)

space for ping pong, reading material, lounging
around the radio, and other club room pleasures.

The leadership in this recreational program is
largely gotten from the group itself, the members
checking their abilities on joining, and then taking
their turns at leading games or serving on the re—
freshments committee. This training in leadership
is no negligible matter, but one of the real bene-
fits to be obtained from such recreation. The pro-
gram becomes self—regenerative, and functions
with something like perpetual motion.

This social program, born and housed in a
church, illustrates what can be done in spite of
institutional limitations. The Student Club activi-
ties are featured iii the college paper, its functions
are subjects for conversation over college board—
ing tables, and it has often been spoken of as “the
most useful organization on the campus.”

Applying the Creative Criterion to Dancing

A final word about what part dancing should
play in such a social program. Here is where the
creative criterion again comes into its own—make
dancing creative, we say, and you not only find
yourself with a fine form of wholesome reel-east;
tion. but you do an inestimable service to the
whole social program in the community.

'4

l
.4

At the Garfield Park Recreation Center |

569

 
    
   
   
   
   
      
   
    
   
   
   
     
     
     
      
    
    
     
    
     
   
   
   
      
    

with a musical note
for every tap

  
 
    
   
   
   
    
    
   
      
         
      
 

which makes tap dancing
amazingly simple and
easy for beginners . . . .
indispensable for danc—

ing instructors. A book
like no other on the market, with

steps analyzed from both a tech-
nical and musical standpoint. . . .
Each routine is set to an original

musical composition.

bY

MAHGUEHITE IUDD who is a graduate in
physical education from Battle Creek College,

professional dancer in vaudeville and musical
comedy, director of dancing and individual
gymnastics at Central Branch, Y.VV.C.A. of

the City of New York.

 
 

0 An annual volume devoted to design,

construction, sanitation, management, costs,

physical therapy, swimming, diving, etc.
Contains, also, a complete Guide to Equip-

ment and Supplies.

Make all checks, money
orders, etc., payable to

EARL K. COLLINS

Suite 1007-08
404 Fourth Avenue. New York City

If more convenient, you can pay with unused
U. S. postage. Stamps accepted at full face
value. Certified statement of payment ren-
dered free when requested. However, when a
notarized document is requested, add 25 cents

to purchase price.

The Social Cabinet encountered considerable
our church when it was proposed that

monthly dancing parties be included as an in-
tegral part of our social whole. And ingenuity in

prejudice in

twccn dancing and music. . . . He has directed

his own orchcstra, composed music, produced
dancc routines for vaudeville and club work

and is a teacher of tap dancing.

plenty was required to circumvent the adverse
votes of every governing body which took the
matter up! Where words could not convince,
however, demonstration did. And when the

church officers and college deans looked in on the
dancing parties, and observed the three hundred

students learning new steps under a competent in—
structor, the wholesome type of dancing and the
healthy absence of wall-flowers, they were not
long in changing their minds. Thereafter, every
vote by a governing body was for the social
program!

Let us digress a moment to remark on this pre—
judice against dancing. It has been—and is—one
of the high forms of art. Yes, you say, but that is
aesthetic dancing. \V ell, why not make all dancing
aesthetic? Show young people through folk dances

how the dance can express a people’s sentiments
like literature; then teach them new ballroom

steps and promote by suggestion and example a
type of dancing which shall be an artistic expres-
sion of each individual person. There are great

RIiss Judd and Afr. Stuart have
been associated professionally
as entertainers and in classes for

the past four years. . . . At
present they are both teaching

in New York City.

Illustrated by
THELMA S. MENDSEN

$1.00

1' 1' 1'

THE WOMANS PRESS

600 Lexington Avenue. New York. N. Y.

 
 

570 "TO TRANSCEND HIMSELF”

 

 

THE MAGAZINE
OF A
THOUSAND
DIVERSIONS

IS JUST WHAT ITS NAME IMPLIES—complete
coverage in 12 issucs of unusual. as well as

LEISURE

 

 

 

 

 

popular. worthwhile free-time diversions. No
longer can recreation mean only playground ac-
tivities for children or vigorous physical exercise
for a chosen few. Spectatoritis is on the wane.

Individuals want to participate and achieve.

Broaden your projects to include every age. a
variety of tastes. and every degree of proficiency.
Today genuine re-creation means a diversified
leisure-time program for all—some healthful and
pleasureable interest for each and every member
of the family.

and countless other
fascinating activities
______._._.._____.._..._._...._...._.. —— ALL ARTICLES
"Th—M PROFUSELY ILLUS-

 LEISURE will give you a new approach to:
|||

 

 

 

   
   

TRATED.
 SIRE
3‘4;‘;;:::§::i’:“*’  SPORTS
  MUSIC
  GAMES
 AA" .1 ‘ " PUZZLES
’  ""“I HANDICRAFTS
3 M e  PHOTOGRAPHY
CREATIVE ARTS

NATURE STUDY

 

SPECIAL OFFER to Readers of RECREATION
Expires March First

— — b I H — I— — _ — — — — — — — — — —— — - — q
I I
I I5 months only - $|.OO :
I —FIHFnHH—H——H—i——-—I——w———— I
I FILL IN YOUR. NAME AND ADDRESS. SEND BILL.
CHECK. STAMPS OR. M. O. in U. S. or CANADA. (Foreign I
I Post—*SOc. extra.) R-Z I
I LEISUREI 683 Atlantic Ave.. Boston, Mass.  I
: Please send your special 15 months offer—$1.00 enclosed. I
I NAME ....................................................................................................... ............ :
: ADDRESS ................................................................................................. a.“ I
| CITY ............................................................ .... STATE ......................... ..._. l
L. ___________________ .. _ _|

If you are a leisure-leader. you are entitled to a free
copy of our booklet “How to Run a Hobby Show.”

 

 

 

 

possibilities in dancing approached creatively.

\Ve “good” people should suffer sharp com-
punctions of conscience during any nights when
we may lie awakc wondering what our young
pcople are doincr, because we have left dancing so
much to the public halls and roadhouses. Young
people will dance whether we wish it or not, as
they have for some thousands of years. Let us
make dancing, a high, instead of a cheap, form
of entertainment.

This description of our experiment in a social
program at People’s Church at Michigan State
College has suggested to you, we hope, new ways
of organizing programs of recreation in home,
school, and church which are wholesome and
creative and at the same time vital and attractive
to young people. To those engaged in such pro-
jects we wish all success. The cause is a worth-
while one, for, may I reiterate, there is scarcely
a greater service that we adults can perform for

young people than that of helping them to make
their recreation creative.

l"To Transcend Himself"
( C ontinucd from page 5.56)

tells us that shellac is made from little bugs. W hat
plant of the flax family can be found nearby?
Natural dyes, metal and semi-precious stones—a
whole world of thrilling interests, particularly
when we also consider the adaptation of design
from nature to the crafts.

Some one has said “America is a good country,
not because it invented electric lighting, but be-
cause it has not forgotten candle lighting.” We
can learn much from the craftsmen of yesteryear.

Crafts should always present opportunity forl
growth. Let us set our standards high and choose .
to do only those things that are real and that1
stimulate a desire ‘for greater effort.

Why Have a Hobby Show?

( C ontizmcd from page 558)

being rested and rclieved of every day worries
and fatiguing thoughts. 1
A hobby exhibit helps parents and children to
see how they may use their leisure time. By ex- 7
ample they see what they can do and are helped
in reaching a decision about the hobbies they wish
to follow. A show is more effective than tth
printed or spoken word. It is alive, graphic, real}-
Every community will profit in arranging such
an exhibit.

 

New-Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Hobbies—A Bibliography

fiice Of Education, U. S. Department Of the Interior,
IW'ashington, D. C.

11E VOCATIONAL DIVISION Of the Oliice of Education
. has made a valuable contribution in this carcfully pre-
rcd bibliography giving a list of hobbies and leisure
n1c activities, publications and articles in the field, 11a-
onal organizations sponsoring or interested in hobby
rograins, and'a brief descripton of some of the hObby
nd lcisure time activitics carried on in various local

mmunities.

Historic Costume For the Stage
y Lucy Barton. Walter H. Baker Company, Boston.
$5.00.
0w THAT Miss Barton’s book has appeared, it is dif-
hcult to see how little theatres, colleges, stage di-
'ectors and costume makers have been able to carry on
heir activities without it! In itself a “very distinguished
iec-c of writing,” as one critic has said Of it, the volume
‘ontains a wealth of practical material represcnting
horoughgoing research in books, art galleries and many
gther sources Of information, and the result Of the author’s
'3wn wide experience in costuming plays and pageants
nd in teaching the history of costumes. It has the great
dvantage of combining in one book, information previ-
usly available in scattered volumes, as well as much new
material. There are twenty chapters in nineteen Of
which the heritage Of European and European-American
dress is traced from Egypt, through the lands mentioned
in the Bible, tO Greece, Rome, Byzantium, to EurOpe
proper, and finally tO its offshoots in the New \Vorld.
The twentieth chapter is devoted tO the problem of the
workshop. Each Of the nineteen historical chaptcrs is
illustrated by from twenty to twenty-five pen and ink
drawings, the majority of them full length figures.

Tin-Can-Crait

By Edwin T. Hamilton. Dodd, Mead 8; Company, New
York. $3.30. '

IIE HUMBLE tin can assumes a position Of high im-

portance in this book in which Mr. Hamilton shows
how all the types Of articles made from more expensive
metals may be duplicated in tin. And as a budget aid
the work is done with the most simple of tools, many Of
them homemade. We not only learn how hundreds of
articles such as book ends, ash trays, desk sets and can-
dlesticks are made—and numberless illustrations and dia-
grams accompany the directions—but we alsO glean much
interesting and little known information about the his-
tory Of tin cans and how they are made. Mr. Hamilton’s
book is the result of two years Of exhaustive 'research
in which metal from bottle caps tO five gallon drums has

been used. It is an encyclopedia of information on the
newest of crafts.

Swimming, Diving and Watersports

By Frances A. Greenwood. Obtainable through Miss

Greenwood, Univeristy Of Alabama, University, Ala-
bama. $.50.

HE SWIMMING SECTION Of the Southern Division Of

the A.P.E.A. through Miss Greenwood has made an
important contribution in this bibliography and guide to
equipment and supplies. The bibliography has been care-
fully classihed and references are made to unpublished
articles and theses. Of special interest tO recreation
workers is the listing Of source materials under “Water
Games, Sports, Meets, and General Recreational Swim-
ming” and under “Pageants and Entertainments.” The
list of manufacturers Of equipment and supplies has alsO
been classihcd with regard to its usefulness for those re-
ferring tO it.

Rushwork

Bv A. H. Crampton. The Studio Publications, Inc., 381
Fourth Avenue, New York. $.35.

NOTHER OF THE attractive “Hours of Leisure” series,

this booklet deals with basketry' and weaving in
which rushes are used in making useful articles and a
number Of such articles are described, including dinner
mats, floor mats and baskets tO serve a wide variety of
purposes. Information is alsO given on how tO make
rush chair seats. Photographs and illustrations accom-
pany the instructions.

Friends

By A. J. Pellettieri. Informal Education Service, Nash-
ville, Tennessee. $1.00.

MR. PELLETTIERI gives us here a study of the factors

involved in friendship-making among adolescent
boys based upon information secured from 449 boys from
all economic levels. The study will be helpful to work-
ers with youth and recreation leaders concerned with the
organization Of clubs and groups. The failure Of many
boys’ clubs tO function is explained by the study which
offers facts that will help prevent those using informal
educational methods from making the mistakes which sO
Often hOld back the development Of prOgrams.

Games I Like to. Play

By Neysa McMein. M cCall’s Magazine, New York. $.20.
IN THIS ATTRACTIVE pamphlet Miss McMein describes in

a delightfully informal manner thirteen games and ac-
tivities with which she has entertained her guests and
suggests supper menus for each party. Her introduction
intO the discussion of activities of literary and stage per-
sonalities who are among her guests takes the pamphlet
out of the realm of the purely game book.

571

572 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE Thle FIELD

The Delinquent Boy and the Correctional School.

By Norman Fenton. \\'ith the collaboration of Jessie
C. Fenton, Margaret E. Murray and Dorothy K.
Tyson. Claremont Colleges Guidance Center, Clare
mont. California. Paper bound, $1.50; cloth, 

One of the most comprehensive studies made of cor-
rectional institutions. this volume presents a basis for
evaluating the possibilities of the present day correctional
school program. Every influence brought to bear on the
playground is searchingly analyzed, and all factors in the
life of the institution are considered in their bearing on
the boy’s development. The recreation program at the
school is described in detail. Speaking of the relation-
ship between juvenile delinquency and recreation, Mr.
Fenton says: “Many of the boys who enter correctional
schools have been limited in their leisure time experience
to associations with questionable companions. Some of
these boys might never have been sent to “'hittier had
the local community supported an adequate program of
supervised recreation. Such a program would moreover
be of inestimable value in facilitating the rehabilitation
of boys released from state schools.”

How to Run a Hobby Show.

Reader’s Service Bureau, Leisurr, Boston, Massa-
chusetts. Free.

With literature on hobbies multiplying rapidly and
hobby shows increasing. this attractive pamphlet sug-
gesting in detail how to conduct a hobby show should
find many readers. It is helpful and practical giving a
step by step procedure.

The School in the Camps.

Frank Ernest Hill. American Association for Adult
Education, New York. Free.

Those who believe that in the CCC an important step
has been taken in the solution of one of America’s
greatest problems will 5nd this booklet telling of the
educational program of the CCC a significant document.
There is human interest in the booklet, not merely sta—
tistics and facts. There are “closeups” of the men and
of the instructors which make us feel as though we had
met them personally. There are vivid word pictures of
the games and camp life which bring us very close to this
vital experiment. There is an honest analysis of failures
to attain the standards set. but there is also a sympathetic
and enthusiastic appreciation of the many successes. Mr.
Hill’s study has an important contribution to our under-
standing of the CCC project-

Let's Look at the Stars.

By Edwin Brant Frost. Houghton Miiilin Company,
Boston. $2.00.

Here is another book on science expressed in such
simple, vivid language that the wonders of the sky may
become the intimate possession of boys and girls. The
author, a famous astronomer, tells about the Sun, the
moon, eclipses, planets, comets, meteors and constella-
tions. The book is full of fascinating information on ob—
servatories, telescopes and methods of studying the skies,
and is lavishly illustrated-

The Out-of—Door Book

Riverside Bookshelf. Houghton Mitiiin Company,
Boston. $2.00.

Stories about birds and beasts, sport, travel and thril-
ling adventure, all by famous writers, make this a
delightful book for all boys and girls. Some of the
authors represented include John Burroughs, Victor
Hugo, Henry D. Thoreau, Thomas Bailey Aldrich, and
John Ruskin.

   
   
  
   
   
  
    
 
    
  

Handbook of the Heavens.

Edited by Hubert J. Bernhard, Dorothy A. Bennet
and Hugh S. Rice. McGraw-Hill Book Co. $11K).
“'ith the sciences forging to the front as leisure e.-
hobbies and with groups at the recreation centers re
izing to study the stars, this book will meet a gro ..-
need. \Vritten for amateurs by members of the Juni
Astronomy Club of the New York Museum of Natur
History, it is recommended by many well known scient
ists and writers on astronomy. Handbook of the H: - ‘
is a practical manual and ready reference volume f
amateur observers.

Ship Model Making—The Brig

By Frank H. Mason. The Studio Publications, I
381 Fourth Avenue, New York. $.35.

The Gear-rift C oiiier Brig which sailed the seas about I
hundred years ago is offered as the model in this book
let, one of the "Hours of Leisure" series. A piece 0
wood, a chisel, a half round wood rasp, a good pocke
penlcnife, sandpaper, a small file and a hammer of ca-
sort are all it is necessary for you to have if you dcci
to model this quaint boat. Full directions and me_
diagrams and illustrations are given.

Organizations for Youth

Leisure Time and Character Building Procedures.
By Elizabeth R. Pendry and Hugh Hartshorne. Mc-
Graw-Hill Book Company, Inc, New York. $2.75.

The history, scope, organization, methods and under-
lying philosophy of forty leisure time agencies which
have character building either as a conscious objective or
as _a presumed by-product, are given in this book. In
their treatment the authors have attempted to do ful'l
justice to the point of view of each plan and have made
their subject matter descriptive rather than critical.
Much of the information which the book contains is
made available for the first time.

 

 

thcers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association
orncens

Joszra LEE, President

Jomt H. FIXLEY, First Vice-President
Jon! G. “‘nraxr, Second Vice-President
Roger: Gaum, Third Vice-President
GUSTAYUS T. Kraut, Treasurer

Howaxn S. Buccnn, Secretary

DIRECTORS

Mas. Rowan W. Bronte, Carlisle, Pa.
“'tutax Bernawonn, Moline, Ill.

Cursive: M. me, Philadelphia, Pa.

HE..va L. Comm, Portland, Ore.

Mas. Autumn G. cousin, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. Tatar: Dawson, Locust Valley. L. L, X. Y.
Jens H. FIKLEY, New York, X. Y.

Roaerr Caner-r, Baltimore, Md.

Ausrrx E. GIZFFZTHS, Seattle, Wash.

Cannes Harries, New York. N. Y.

Mas. Cmus V. Htcxox, Michigan City, Ind.
Mas. Rowan: E. Hcouss, West Orange, 3". ,.
Mus. Erasers saucy Hume, Plainacld, .'. J.
Gosravus '1‘. Rant, New York, X. Y.

H. MCK. Laxnox, Indianapolis, Ind.

Mas. Cauus D. Lamar, Greenwich, Conn.
Roasnr 145nm, Charlotte, X. C.

Josue LEE, Boston, Mass.

Enwm E. LOOHIS, New York, N. Y.

J. H. AIcCuanr, Springncld, Mass.

Orro T. Maura! Philadelphia, Pa.

“3&1:er A. Liar, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Cant. E. .‘IILLIEIS, Augusta. Me.

M15. Oonex L. Mm, “'oodhury, N. Y.
Mas. Janus \V. “'answon’n, JL, Washington, D. C.
J. C. “11.511, New York, N. Y.

Panoramic M. Wmcm, Kev Yo:k, 'K. Y.

Jonx G: “'tsaxr, Concord, N. H.

Mas. \\ tutu: H. “'oontx, 11., Tucson, .Ariz.

