Eswald Pettet

A Pioneer Adventure

OR NEARLY twenty years Eswald Pettet dreamed and worked and lived for the national

F recreation movement—not for an organization or an institution. nOt for a group of men
with whom he was associated, but tO help tO build a way Of life. channels Of growth for

the American people. He wanted Opportunities for recreation under our American municipali-

ties as free and Open for all as Opportunities for education.

He was paid in part for his service as a district neld man for the National Recreation

Association. but only in part. He gave a service that was beyond any pay. His work had a
priceless quality. If his salary had been reduced or taken away. he would have tried to find a
means Of continuing his service. In point Of fact. one of his dearest dreams was that the oil
well he was drilling on his farm should help finance the movement in which he worked. His
work was a family work. As he traveled from city tO city. the recreation bishOp of the South—
west. his wife traveled with him and his dreams were her dreams. Even his daughter. as a girl
of perhaps ten years. connded to me that when she grew up she would like to secure a million
dollar gift for the movement so the money-raising problem would not be so hard.

As villages grew intO towns. and towns intO cities in the great Southwest. Ted Pettet
wanted their charters in the beginning to provide for fun in living. He wanted them to be good
places in which tO bring up children. good places tO live and die in. He wanted a world Of

happy peOple.

It is out Of the stuff of such men as Eswald Pettet. such adventurers, pioneers, that the
foundations of our country, our citizenship. have been built. Eswald Pettet and his wife prac—
tically had no home of their own. but the whole Southwest was their home and everywhere
they were welcome because it was evident they sought nOthing for themselves, that they sought
only one thing—to help build that section Of the country to which they had dedicated

themselves.

For the makings Of abundant life Ted Pettet had the courage to ask any man for any—
thing because all that he had and was, he himself had given.

Quietly and prosaically. year in and year out. without fuss or feathers, without any
religious label. but from the deepest of religious motives. Eswald Pettet worked in just the same
spirit as the prOphets Of old and the great heroes of the Christian faith. I become silent and
bow my head in reverence as I think of the spirit in which he served the Southwest for these
nearly twenty years. The word Of Ted and Grace Pettet has been an inspiration tO their col-

leagues. The meaning Of Ted Pettet's life is a rich legacy to us all.

HOWARD BRAUCI-IER.

 

MARCH, I936

 

(.11

\I

.mwcéwcm 5 52:3? 2: .95mEJ no 93980 SE... Sail.
:.om_._a._3co coEEoo m ‘3 noucmEoU co_...m.._onooo 9: E aEmonngou “to 3:3 a «scam mm...an N: 608330 .25 moigoaoga .5983 “_o

:3an or: go» «0.3qu m>$mogo or: con: 2.3 u: Wmomgm E2323 new somon Etuzmon E “Emu—20 .2033 u: dame—0.. .mco_uoEo 83m new Art—ma
.Exw o>$mc_mmE_ woxo>m u: .Louomgmso mc_omgnEo.__m m“: cm 5:325 m_ a. can—E35800 or: +0 0+: or: E manner—Em? a: 3mE$ao£o>o 3 isomtzo
u: .3me £033 3mm”. .3392. "—0 2031.520 9.: L3 ncm 0.330. .._0 an: min—mono or: go“— xtcztoaao mongoga u: .32.. «mega 9.: “5 0:0 2 «EEO:

‘

 

mm
m.
m
m.
m...
m.

 

Ways to Musical Good Fortune

"Providing lor Participation" is the sub-
ject oi this article, the second oi the
series on Ways to Musical Good Fortune

m. rots-r article under this
T title,appearing in the Sep-

temhcr issue of Rl-‘CRIEA-
'rtox, presented ideas as to the kinds of good for—
tune that are to be found in music, not alone
by specially trained people performing in spe-
cial places, but also, in varying measure, by all
sorts of other people in their homes, churches,
schools, recreation centers and in the commu-
nity. While recognizing the high development
of music as an art, and the inestimahle value
of its best artists, that article reaffirmed the
belief that all real music, no matter how ad-
vanced, is rooted in impulses that are with
some degree of force astir in every person: im-
pulses to express one's feelings, to enjoy cer-
tain kinds of sounds and rhythms, find or cre-
ate beauty, live more fully, more intensely, feel
qualities and powers in oneself that are esti-
mable and expansible, to have fun, and to at-
tain a full sense of fellowship with people
around one or with distant or imagined people.
Such impulses are the essential stuff of music,
though not of music alone. They are the in-
ward grace of which the music is an outward
sign giving lovable form, fullillment and nur-
ture to what might otherwise be inarticulate
and never fully realized. It is in that inward
grace that our good fortune lies.

'l'his fortune is a hy-product of whole-heart-
ed singing, playing, dancing or listening to its
music, as music; not something to he sought
for directly. ’»ut it is easily lost'under the ex-
ternal pressures and the artilices of the usual
preparing to “put on” a concert or of acquiring
a technique, or under the mainly muscular ac-
tivity of much of what is called community
singing.

The good music leader wants his singers or
players to perform better and better. He
knows that the better the performance is, the
more satisfying and enriching to the perform-
ers is the whole experience likely to be. But

By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG
National Recreation Association

he also knows that this
will be true only if the
performance is better in
the judgment of the performers themselves,
and continues to be a free and genuine expres—
sion, but more adequate one, of their own in-
ner selves, a genuine outward sign of an in-
ward grace. Ile knows that in the scale of
human values, and even in that of purely artis-
tic values, the quality of that grace, that inner
vitality, and the degree to which it pervades
the life of the individual are of far greater im-
portance than the quality, judged by technical
standards, of its outward sign.

These ideas may seem too obviously true to
he worth mentioning. hit one has only to ob-
serve, on the one hand, the ordinary choral or
orchestral conductor "putting on" on a concert
(how appropriate is the phrase, “putting on” l)
and, on the other hand, the ordinary song lead-
er “pepping up” some community singing, to
feel impelled to mention those ideas as a basis
for determining what might he done to provide
for really worthwhile musical developments in
a community, a smaller group or in an indi-
vidual. Accepting them, then, and having in
mind a whole community, we will determine
upon three general purposes and then consider
the ways in which each might be fullilled. The
purposes are:

I. To provide good, graspahle opportunities
for participation in music by people not now
engaging in any musical activity.

2. To provide Opportunities for people who
are singing or playing to lind larger, more dis-
cerniug and more enjoyable experience of
music.

3. To provide opportunities for people to lis-
ten to music more intelligently and enjoyably.

Who Will Respond?
In this article we shall discuss only the first

575

576 WA 175 TO MUSICAL GOOD, FORTUNE

of these purposes, leaving the other two for
later issues of this magazine.

Among the people who might respond to op—
portunities for participation in music there
may be young men and women who have sung
or played valiantly and with much enjoyment
in good high school or college choruses, or-
chestras 01' bands, but who upon graduation
found no suitable opportunity, if any at all, to
continue such activity. Many of these, and
other young people now musically mute or
nearly so, have had special training in conser—
vatories of music and in private studios. Here
is a wealth of skill being wasted that could lead
to spirit—strengthening experiences that for
many a person are greatly needed. There are
older men and women also who have at some
time acquired musical skills which are now be-
ing neglected; women now past the fullest de-
mands of child-nurturing that interrupted the
singing or playing of their young womanhood,
and men for whom getting on in the world is
no longer the life-filling business that crowded
out the cultural interests of youth. Provision
for colored young or older people is likely to
bring especially rich results.

\Vherever there are people whose childhood
and youth, at least, were spent in a European
country, there are likely to be some who have
enjoyed folk singing and dancing and perhaps
playing on a native string instrument like the
balalaika, the tamburica or the guitar. The re-
luctance of some foreign-born, and especially
of their children, to continue in this country a
musical practice which in the native country
of the former was a vital and most liberating
expression is usually due to their strong desire
not to be thought foreign. Therefore, if only
to dispel or prevent the feeling of inferiority
which causes this reluctance, a feeling which
has often been a cause of painful maladjust-
ments, and to enrich the idea of what it is to be
American, we do especially well when we bring
about suitable opportunities for the revival and
continued practice of the folk arts. In doing
this we should, of course, be helping toward a
closer integration of these people in the life
of the community by giving full opportunity
for some of their songs and dances to be
learned by other pe0ple in the community, and
for other good songs, dances and different
forms of recreation regarded as American to be

fully participated in by the foreign-born and
their children.

In addition to all the people we have men-
tioned, who have had some special practice in
music but are no longer enjoying group
music-making, there are a countless number
who have never had a good taste of the mu-
sical enjoyment and inspiration of which
they are capable. Young men hanging
around at street corners and elsewhere, young
women equally aimless, old men and women
for whom the fire and play of life seem done
but in whom there is still a power of happiness,
perhaps richer than youth’s, in singing or play—
ing that is for the love of it, not for display.
And between these two age groups are all
sorts, ages and conditions of other people.
They have never responded to any opportunity
to join a chorus or a course in music, except
that which they had to enter when they were
children in school. Many have been deterred
by the idea, often false, that they are not musi—
cal; others by‘ a feeling of social distinction
between themselves and the people of better
neighborhoods who go in for cultural activi-
ties. If we can open really engaging entrances
to music, many of these people may find their
way to experiences more vitally enjoyable than
any they have ever had. For when we really
enter music we enter not only music, which is
richly worthwhile in itself, but we enter also a
realm of human nature in which arise all the
qualities—of generous, self-forgetful response,
freedom and grace of spirit and body, a love of
excellence—that give any work or play the sig-
nificance and lovableness of art.

To save space we will not give special attention
to adequate provision for children and high school
boys and girls, which is fundamental to music
in a community eind should include good op-
portunity in .their recreation centers, play-
grounds, clubs, Sunday schools and homes as
well as in the public schools. Opportunities
outside the schools are needed if only to inte-
grate the school music in life, to give it full
reality. High school graduates are less likely
to continue singing or playing if heretofore all
their music-making was confined to the
schools. The provision for adults is also impor-
tant in this regard, for it is necessary if only .-
in order to make 'the community fit for the sur-
vival of the musical interests and skills ac-
quired in the schools.

IVAYS TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE 577

Opportunities in Already Existing Groups

Now for practice. For those who have al-
ready had special musical experience let us first
find out what non—profiting choruses, orches-
tras, bands and other musical groups already
exist that might welcome them to member-
ship. It is not necessary to make an exhaus—
tire survey of these. Find out the best of them,
when and where each one meets, whether it is

for men or women or both, the number and,

age range of its members, its purposes and ac—
tivities and what one must do to be a member
of it. \Vith the willing permission of the group,
help in good ways to bring this information to
the attention of people likely to be interested.
An “information service” for this purpose
might be established at the office of the recre-
ation department, and attractive posters or bul-
letins inviting people to make music, and an—
nouncing this information service, might be
placed in recreation centers, schools, public li—
braries, other social agencies, and in industrial
and large commercial establishments. Some
posters might be contributed by a high school
art class. The newspapers might carry a good
feature story telling of musical opportunities
in the city, and what they can mean.

Some choruses have gained m e m b e r s
through having one or
more open “rehears-

ing'open to all, a few brief performances by a
small vocal or instrumental group, the acting
out of some ballads, or other musical entertain-
ment, and perhaps some simple refreshments.
During the evening someone tells informally
such information about the chorus as any pros—
pective member would like to have. The
“neighborhood nights,” of which we shall
Speak later, are similar in character but take
the chorus to where the people are, not the
people to where the chorus is. Organization
for a festival to bring together a number of
choruses in performance of a fine big work like
“The Messiah,” or of a vitally interesting mis—
cellaneous program, might attract to the cho—
ruses people who are moved by the civic nature
of the enterprise, the glow given it by the
newspapers, and by the prospect of taking part
in one big concert with only two or three
months of rehearsals, not a series of concerts
entailing eight or nine months of rehearsals.
A single chorus might plan such an event for
itself alone. The event might be the perform-

ance of a good light opera.

A meeting of church choir directors to dis—
cuss how their choirs might provide attractive
opportunities for more people to sing in them

could be very effective. In most cities there
are organizations of

organists and choir

als” or informal musi—
cal evenings in which
there is general sing-

A group of boys and young men in the anthracite
coal district of Pennsylvania who found their way
to musical good fortune through a harmonica band

directors which meet
every now and then.
Since many of the

 

578 WAYS TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE

members are eager to form volunteer choirs or
to enlarge existing ones, they should be inter—
ested in such a discussion suggested perhaps
to their president by a recreation executive or
some other person or group concerned with
finding opportunities for people to sing. A
choir festival might be very effective in this

regard, as was said above about a festival of

secular choruses. Suggestions for planning
and organizing such a festival, which might in-
clude, secular choruses, and for planning and
organizing other singing festivals are given in
a bulletin entitled Festivals for M usic Week
and Other l’Vc'eks.* But there are other ways
of arousing greater interest in joining a choir,
the best being those that make the members
themselves enthusiastic about the music and
their singing of it. These ways will be pre—
sented in our next article, on how to provide
for greater enjoyment by singers and players.

If there are no other orchestras suited to
high school graduates or others who play, a
high school orchestra might have one of its
weekly rehearsals on an evening, when outside
players could join it. Or a well-balanced small-
er number of high school players might meet
on that evening to serve as a nucleus for a
community orchestra. If this seems a disad-
vantage for the high school students or their
conductor, let them regard it as a contribution
to the life of the community, a demonstration
of good civics as well as of music. They might
agree to continue to make this contribution
only as long as the outside players do not of
themselves constitute a well—balanced orches-
tra. Individuals of them could withdraw when
outside players are secured to take their places.
incidentally, the evening rehearsal, coming as
it does in that part of the day which is the leisure
time, could, as a supplement to the daytime
ones, make the orchestra’s playing more effec—
tive as a “training for leisure.” Given the so-
cial character that it should have, less formal
than the typical school rehearsal, and the musi-
cal comradeship of the students with people
outside of school, it will probably be much en-
joyed by the students, and make them wish all
the more to continue playing in such a com-
pany when they are outside of school.

There may be other groups in the reader’s
community to which might be applied such
suggestions as we have made. For example,

* National Recreation Association. $.15

_National Conference (of school music teach-.I

there may be women’s choruses, men’s glee
clubs, bands, fretted instrument groups, folk
singing or dancing groups. Advantages of en-
deavoring in this way to provide attractive 0p-
portunities for non music-makers, who have
some musical skill, to revive their singing or
playing are that there is already a leader for
them, an established group, a rehearsal place
and perhaps music enough to be shared by
them, saving much concern, time, energy and
money. A disadvantage may be that the group
is already a socially complete unit, making it
hard for the newcomer to find a congenial part
in its life, or it may be uncongenial to him
because of its musical standards or of the ages
or customs of its members. For this or other
reasons new choruses, orchestras and other
musical groups may also be needed.

   
    

Startin g New Groups

If this be true, as is very likely, our first con-
sideration with regard to it may well be the
starting of such groups in the Y.M.C.A.. the
Y.\\’.C.A. and other social agencies or clubs
where people already have a feeling of fellow-
ship toward one another that readily finds its
way into musical expression. Moreover, once
started, such groups may derive enough of the
incentive and satisfaction of performing in
public from singing or playing for ready-made
audiences in the social agency or club itself,
and thus not have the recurring danger of dis—
couragement in trying to attract adequate au-
diences in the community. \Ve do well also
to try out the idea of starting musical groups
among the alumni of the high schools. provid—
ing thus especially for young men and women
of whom many are without any such dignify-
ing, socializing and very enjoyable outlet for
their energies. Some high schools keep in-
formed as to the whereabouts of their gradu-
ates, making it easy to reach them with an—
nouncements.

Last year a movement which the Associated
Glee Clubs of America had started for the for-
mation of junior glee clubs was given new'life
by a decision of the national organization of
Kiwanis Clubs and of the Music Educators

3'1
ers) to join in it. The National Recreation‘
Association, asked to help, is also very much
interested. The proposal is to have men’s glee
clubs throughout the country invite young men '

l-VAYS TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE 579

of from eighteen to twen-
ty—five years of age to form
junior clubs in association
with them. The senior club
may help by assigning some
of its members to the work
of interesting the young
men and assisting them in
organizing a club, by lend-
ing its music, by sharing a
concert with them, by hav—
ing some of its members
act as ushers at a concert by the junior club
and, in cooperation with the Kiwanis Club,
perhaps engaging a conductor for it. The
School Board is to provide a room for rehear-
sals, and the director of school music is to pro-
vide a list of graduates of high school choral
groups. Like the Junior Amphion Society of
Seattle, the first of such junior clubs, estab-
lished in 1922, each of these is likely, by the
natural trend of young manhood, to become
more and more independent,.finally paying its
way entirely. But the friendly association of
the younger with the older men will continue
to be a pleasure and stimulus to both. At the
age of twenty—five the members of the junior
club will graduate and be cordially invited into
the senior club. The good recreation leader
will gladly give this movement his support
which. through his contact with young men,
may be of the greatest value.

ties in the way

Many a woman has revived her musical in-
terest and skill in a parent-teacher association
group of Mothersingers. All too rarely a group
of Fathersingers has been formed in such an
association. Music chairmen or other officers
of these associations might be interested in
taking as a project for the year the formation
of such groups to sing at meetings and perhaps
at a city gathering at which the groups would
combine. \\'e have all heard over the radio
the chorus of General Motors employees in De-
troit and should know that in many another
industrial or commercial establishment one or
more groups of employees, given encourage-
ment, a rehearsal place and, in some cases, mu-
sic and a conductor by their employers, have
gained a new sense of fellowship for them—
selves, loyalty toward the establishment, and
dignity and significance for their labor, besides
the fun of it all, through singing or playing
together. In rural places it will be the grange,

"Valuable as instrumental skill is to one
who can get it and keep it, the dl'FFlCUl-
of becoming a skiltul
performer have too often been allowed
to block the whole impulse to make
music and to share in it. One must not
forget the many simpler ways of dedi-
cating one's limbs and one's ears and
one's heart. if not one's fingers and one's
breath, to this most appealing ot the
muses, music." — Marjorie Barstow

Greenbie in The flirts of Leisure.

the farm bureau and home
bureau, as well as the
church, in which musical
groups can most likely be
formed.

An orchestra formed in
a church could win an ac-
tive and inspiring part in
the life of that institution,
rehearsing there and giv—
ing a concert of appropri-
ate music there now and
then on a Sunday afternoon or evening or
week-day evening. The wonderfully beautiful
extended chorale, “Sleepers, \Vakel”, from the
Bach cantata of that name, published for or-

. chestra by the Oxford University Press (Carl

Fischer, Inc., New York), is but one token of
the rich field of noble and varied music for or-
chestra that is especially appropriate fqr use in
the church. The Oxford University Press has
published orchestral portions of several other
Bach cantatas. M. \V’itmark and Sons have
published the stunning but difficult choral pre—
lude, “A Mighty Fortress Is Our God,” by
Bach, transcribed for orchestra by .\Valter
Damrosch; and also, for string orchestra, a
few other Bach works, including the great G.
minor Fugue, and easier compositions by Pur-
cell, Handel, Mendelssohn and Schumann that
are well suited to a church concert. From the
Oliver Ditson Company has come a volume of
“Twenty Bach Chorales, a Chorale Prelude
and a Fugue” arranged for any combination of
instruments. Haydn’s “\V’einacht” (Christmas)
Symphony, No. 26, Mendelssohn’s Reforma-
tion Symphony, No. 5 and a fine \Veinacht
Pastorale by J. D. Heinichen are published
by Breitkopf and Harte]. But any fine music,

including the most joyous, is essentially in

keeping with the life in a church. The choir

might join the orchestra now and then in a
concert or in a church service. In this way
services on the great days, Christmas or Eas-
ter, could be made especially festive. The pos-
sibilities are so fine it is astonishing that more
organists, competent or making themselves so,
have not started a church orchestra. Hun-
dreds of idle graduates from good high school
orchestras might thus be provided for.

Not only choruses, orchestras and bands,
but also vocal and instrumental quartets, trios
and other small groups are possible and very

580 WA VS TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE

desirable. These have the great advantages
of needing no conductor, no large rehearsal
place, and probably little expense. They are
also likely to be less dependent than large
groups are, for incentive and continuance, on
public performances well attended. The “bar-
ber shop quartet,” which used to flourish in
larger number than it does now, is a token of
a natural liking by older boys and many men
to “gang up” in fours for some “close har—
mony.” Let there be a knowing pianist in a
fairly quiet place where older boys or men con-
gregate, and copies of suitable music, and
there will probably be quartets or octets
before long. If a collection like the Twice 55

Conmumity Songs Blue Book * for men’s voices

is well used they will soon be going in it and
from it to less heart-rending and more soul-
satisfying music. The E. C. Schirmer Music
Co. of Boston has published the largest
amount of first—class music for men’s groups,
much of it simple. Interest in being in such a
group may be aroused through '
general informal singing. At
the close of a not too long pe—
riod of the latter, let announce-
ment be made that anyone
wishing to stay a while for
some part-singing is invited to
do so. Girls’ and mixed groups
as well as boys’ Or men’s
groups may thus find themselves, or they may
prefer being all together, a single group, sing—
ing and learning fine music for the love of it,
without thinking of giving a public perform—
ance. One or more such after—meetings might
result in plans for a “music club” attracting,
if desired, additional members who are known
to be capable and congenial, and meeting, say,
once every two weeks for an evening of music
and sociability: of singing by all and perhaps
also of singing and playing by small groups
who have practiced between times, and surely
some simple refreshments. The evening might
close with some dancing, if more activity is
desired. Such a club’s interests could expand
to include helping to develop the musical pos-
sibilities of the center in which it meets, or of
the neighborhood; and attending a concert to—
gether or an especially interesting broadcast.
perhaps exploring at a previous meeting or
directly before the concert some of the music

h——.—r-_

" In. I" Rift-hard nnrl (ind Radon.

 

"Music is the sea upon
which all the argosies of
our hopes sail safely into

port." --- W. B. Harte.

which is to be listened to. The same knowing
pianist and a phonOgraph, or both, could make
this exploring possible. Informal studies in
music appreciation might take some of the time
of every meeting. But the singing or playing,
leading as it may into some of the most en-
joyable music in the world could well take
up all the time. One or more “madrigal”
groups might develop, patterned after but per-
haps larger than the English Singers, and Sing—
ing Only the simpler music, at least to begin
with. Nothing in music or in any other sort
of activity, unless it be playing in a string
quartet or the like, is a more dashing and
everlasting delightful sport than singing in
such a group.

A music club or chamber music society
might be formed especially for small instru—
mental groups. Given a good room and suit-
able music, of which the well—known publish-
ers have recently issued a great deal for every
grade of skill, an instrumentalist experienced
in playing in chamber music
and enthusiastic about it could
very likely attract the players.
One of the many unemployed
musicians, though incapable of
succeeding as a conductor or a
soloist, might be entirely ca—
pable as a coach to chamber
music “teams.”

In planning to start any sort of musical or-
ganization we Should remember the force of
having a definite purpose for it that is to be
realized soon, of having in mind some special
occasion for which such a group is needed. A
Christmas, Spring or other holiday or seasonal
celebration may be the occasion for forming
several groups, including folk singing and
dancing ones. The giving of a play may call
for an orchestra or a singing group to perform
between the acts. Various good groups may
be needed to sing, play or dance at “neighbor-
hood nights,” of which we shall speak later. a
In several cities choruses have been started in 
order to carry out the plan of the conductor I
of a local symphony orchestra to perform some
great choral work. A band may be needed
for an outdoor celebration or for park con-,g;
certs: if necessary, some high school players
may be a nucleus for it. In what seems a spread
of interest in grand opera, a number of travel—
ling companies have been formed of soloists,

WAYS TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE 581

 

Courtesy Chicago Park District

conductor and stage manager to perform oper-
as with local choruses and orchestras which,
in some cities, have been formed especially
for the purpose. Need for a group of dancers
in an opera, light opera, a play, pageant or
simple festival may be the'very incentive
needed to bring a restrained but talented per-
son into the liberation and joy of a fine, free
sort of dancing.

Distribute the Opportunities

Unfortunately there is a strong tendency to
enlist always the same people for the occasions
and needs we have mentioned. That is the easy
way, and the way of persons who think only
of getting the music performed and not of
what the music could do for people who might
be attracted to perform it. We should distri—
bute the opportunities to sing, play or dance for
such occasions as far as we can without risk—
ing too much the quality of the performance.
Other ways of arousing interest in starting and
developing a choral or instrumental group will
appear later in this article.

The Uninitiated Respond Also
Thus far we have spoken only of providing

for people who are accustomed to singing or
playing. \Ve will now consider again the large
number who might find much enjoyment and
inspiration in making music, but who have
never responded to, or never been given, ade-
quate opportunity to do so. Wherever people
gather for recreation or for a meeting of a club
or association of some kind, there are likely to
be times when a good opportunity for informal
singing will be welcomed. With a better con-
ception of “community singing” than often
ruled at war—time gatherings, many officials of
recreation centers, settlements, the “Y’s” pa-
rent—teacher associations, Farm and Home Bu—
reaus and like organizations are eager for such
an opportunity for their groups. The great
need is for really musical but not necessarily
highly skilled leaders who know and love
many good suitable songs, and know also the
fun and sociability, and not only these but also

the fuller zest and beauty that may arise in the .
singing. The possible scope of such singing
and the great variety of fine, simple songs suit-
ed to it seem to have been hardly dreamt of
by most leaders. Probably many a musical
person, including some among the unemployed
musicians, could be interested in it' and readily

582 WA Y5 TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE

prepare himself or herself to succeed in it, at
least as a part—time occupation, if he could
know its best possibilities and values. In the
brief space of this article we must refer, for
a full account of those possibilities and of how
to achieve them, to a“ small book, Community
and Assembly Singing.*

Neighborhood Nights

Many recreation centers and like places
have had occasional “neighborhood nights”
(luring which some performances by local
groups have punctuated brief periods of gen-
eral singing. For these performances we may
have good amateur choral or instrumental
groups, including family ones, costumed folk
singers or players, children’s and high school
groups, folk dancing or other good dancing,
the acting out of a well-chosen ballad sung by
the entire assemblage or by a smaller group or
by soloists, a short play, charades or a brief
illustrated travelogue. Any of these imbued
with real enthusiasm and good quality of per-
formance can awaken the live inward grace
out of which general singing arises naturally.
By nine-thirty the last song is sung by all and
announcement is made that anyone wishing to
sing some more is invited to stay a while,
joined perhaps by a chorus that sang earlier
in the evening. A new chorus, as was pointed
out above, may grow out of this after-singing.
Those wishing to dance are invited to another
room, or a gymnasium where a group of folk
dancers whom they have just watched may
teach them the easier of their dances; or other
dances may be enjoyed. Or the entire assem-
blage may be invited to stay for such dances
and games as have come to be known as “so-
cial recreation.” Inciden-
tally, additional groups
may thus be found or
started toward formation
for future “neighborhood
nights.” The impulse to-
ward expression, aroused
and strengthened by the
general singing, is given
further incentive by the
welcome need for more
groups to perform in the
friendly atmosphere of
those nights.

 

*National Recreation Association. $.60.
tNational Recreation Assomatlon. $.15.
IBoosey & Co., New York. $.50.

"A musical leisure program of community .,
scope should cover all the phases of ama-
teur occupation with music that the indi-
vidual music lovers are interested in and
capable of, and that the community can
on from the point of
view of organization. It should be kept in
mind here that such a program, in order
to reach the most intensive resultI should
stress the development of music as an
activityI rather than as a means of passive
entertainment. Furthermore, it should pro-
mote the practice of music as an individual
hobby, as a family undertaking, and as a
group and community undertaking."

——-Willem van de Wall.

develop and carry

Simple Festivals

Now and then these evenings of home-made
enjoyment will blossom into a festival, still
simple and spontaneous but irradiated by as-
sociation with the Harvest, Christmas, the
Spring or some other red-letter time or idea.
“Heigh-ho for a Merry Spring!” t describes in
detail the program and organization of such
a festival. An important feature of it is the
general singing made possible by the easy
learning of songs at previous gatherings such
as “neighborhood nights” and at meetings of
clubs, and also by including in the mimeo-
graphed program the words of all the songs.

An especially delightful setting for a festival
which can be held at any time of the year is
that of a country fair with its booths or tables
bearing exhibits of hand-made textiles, pot-
tery and other crafts; cakes, preserves and
other products of the often undervalued skills
of the housewife; flowers and other products
of the garden; and perhaps other delightful
things a sort of hobby show. Also, in addi-
tion to the booth tenders, a gypsy fortune tell—
er, balloon man, flower girl, photographer,
lemonade or popcorn man, and a number of
craftsmen actually engaged in weaving, pot—
tery, wood-carving or the 1ike———colorful scene,
full of joy of life, confronting the audience
from the moment they arrive. C owe to the Fair IE:
might be sung as an “overture” and then
would come in a' contrasting succession of per-
formances such welcome folk as dancers, sing-
ers, a company of actors, characters from songs
or ballads to be sung, jugglers or acrobats, a
strolling band of musicians, and perhaps chil-
dren in dances, singing games or other games,
most or all of these people
remaining to enjoy the
fair, if there is room for
them all. The audience,
being enabled to do so,
are invited to sing most
or all of the songs, sup-
ported by a self-elected
group among them who
have had some extra prac-
tice of the songs. Through
“neighborhood nights”
and such affairs as these.
and what may grow out
of them, a community
center might become in—

 

WAYS TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE 583

deed a place where all sorts of people find good
fortune, find what life for each one can be at

its fullest and best.

In the Home

Anyone who knows what informal singing
or playing in a home can be must wish to share
his love of it with others and be ready to de-
scribe and help to demonstrate the possibilities
to parent-teacher associations, women’s clubs
and other interested groups. The leaflet, Singing
and Playing in the Home, suggests ways of pro-
ceeding in this. He will also wish to see an
ample supply of music for the home available
in the circulating library, and adequate public
notice of that supply. Demonstrations of home-
like music-making at the library itself, using
music of which there are copies on its own
shelves, might be arranged.

In the Church

That in the churches at eleven on Sunday
mornings there are more people gathered, pre-
sumably, for communal singing than at any
other time, and with superbly recreative tunes
to choose, as well as feeble ones to regret, must
make the recreation leader as well as the mu-
sic-lover and church musician wonder what
can be done to make more of this great re-
source than has been made of it in some
churches. Church Music and the New Leisure *
gives several suggestions based on actual prac-
tices which an interested clergyman or church
musician may wish to consider at a meeting of
the Ministerial Union or the Church Organists’
Guild.

Introductory Playing

Persons of any age who have never played
an instrument may find pleasant introduction
to that road to musical enjoyment through
playing in a rhythm band using fine, simple
music and well-chosen instruments, through
playing a shepherd’s pipe or other simple in-
strument made by himself, or a harmonica, or,
skipping these more elementary and limited
instruments, through having good class in-
struction in playing the piano or an orchestral
or band instrument. More and more teachers
of instrument-playing are equipping them-
selves for class teaching, and the music pub-

 

* National Recreation Association. $.10.
1' G. Schirmer. Inc., New York. $.10.
1Ed$viva0rg Schuherth and Co., 11 East‘22nd Street, New York.

lishers are providing them with abundant ma-
terial. H ow to Teach the Rhythm Band f though
it neglects the capacity of the players to work
out original instrumentations for the music, is
excellent in every other respect. The Pipers’
Guild Handbook 2%: tells fascinatineg of the de-
velopment of pipers’ bands and and other for-
tunate groups of home-made instrument play-
ers in England, and gives very clear directions
for making the pipes, fiutes and viols of various
sizes which they are enjoying and for certain
of which distinguished composers have made
special music to add to the great supply al-
ready at hand in song books and in collections
of music for the conventional instruments. M.
Hohner and Co., 351 Fourth Avenue, New
York, issue free for every purchaser of a
Hohner harmonica an unfailing method in
How to Play the Harmonica.

Introductory Dancing

Dancing can be an especially fortunate way
of getting into music. Most modern teachers
of the art of dancing emphasize the naturalness
of it, making it attractive and easy to enter.
People generally should see much more of this
free, whole-bodied and fine spirited sort of
dancing than they do. Folk dancing and the
best ball—room dancing can let one into many
a good tune. The social recreation to which we
have already referred is the most ready way for
the ordinary person to expand his interest in
dancing. In gymnasium classes there are great
opportunities to experience fine, big music,
which is to experience fineness and bigness in
oneself, if only the teachers and pianists would
choose such music suited to the activities.

Where Are the Leaders?

0, for good leaders! That is the cry almost
everywhere. Many of the endeavors we sug-
gested require no new leaders. They involve
mainly an expansion of already led activities.
For the rest, almost every community has mu—
sic teachers, school music supervisors, church
organists and choirmasters, professional play-
ers, good amateur musicians and perhaps mu—
sic students who are mature enough to lead.
But none of these persons may have the insight
to deal efi‘ectively with people in such endeav-
ors as we have suggested, or they may be too
busy (not the many unemployed musicians),
or simply not interested. Moreover, many of

(Continued on page 609)

A Letter From the Orient

By
ERNA BUNKE CARSON

low Sea, approximately II,000 miies

from the office of the National Rec-
reation Association. The city is Dairen
and such a beautiful spot! Mountains,
everywhere; lavender mists; fishing
sampans ; lovely kimonos, and picturesque
junks with high, white sails.

There are nearly half a million people
here—Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Rus-
sian, Scandinavian, German, British,
American—but although each group retains
its national customs to some extent, the city is
Japanese owned and Japanese in plan, char—-
acter, legend. Because of its great natural
beauty and its carefully created beauty, it
seems to epitomize one question which the
Japanese are continually taught to ask them-
selves—“What is beautiful in life?”

I AM SITTING on the shores of the Yel-

Parks With Distinctive Features

Dairen offers much to her people recreation-
ally. As in many American cities, this is
largely under the municipality, although the
schools are doing an excellent piece of work
and most of the leadership comes from them.
A third group is “working on this problem—the
South Manchuria Railway, and it deserves a
word of high praise. In addition to developing
for its employees numerous sport, music, folk-
lore, drama organizations, bringing to them
musicians and lecturers from Europe and
America, and offering them an internationally
famous library, it has built many parks, play—-
grounds, athletic fields, skating areas, recrea-
tion buildings and beaches for the use of the
public—man unique but a very desirable thing
for a railroad to do!

I have never seen a city where each park
offered such different and distinctive features.

584

  

One is best adapted for children. It has a
lovely green playground on a sloping hill; a
small, but good, library for children and their
mothers; a flower and zoological garden; and,
of course, there is the usual playground equip-
ment, which incidentally, is all home-made and
quite colorful. The basket swings for the very
young are painted a Sunshiny yellow; the see~
saws have two or four individual seats; the
many sandboxes are under shady trees and
large enough only for three or four children.

Another park, in the heart of the city, has
bridle paths and a road which leads to a 'high
{I

 

 

mountain summit. At the very top there is a
tea-house where, after a climb, one may drink
tea and eat cakes under pine and wistaria,
while the red—roofed city lies below.

A third park is bn the sea, and here there is
blue water and a long curving beach where
people go for swims, clam digging, all day
picnics, sampan fishing or junk sailing. Across
the road is one of the most beautiful golf
courses I have ever seen, with its hills and
valleys and with the ocean in sight most of the
time. At the second hole the nearby islands
may be seen, the old Russian church cross, and
Chinese women washing in winding streams.
And there isn’t a golfer who doesn’t stop here i
for long moments! I

A LETTER FROM THE ORIENT 585

The largest park in the city
is designed for athletics. It
has two swimming pools,
baseball diamonds, tennis
courts and many other sport

For those who like large

a modern stadium; for those
who prefer boating, there are
two fresh water lakes, lying
cool and dark between moun—
tains, with rowboats costing
only ten Sen (about three cents gold) an hour.

Dairen is the hiker’s Utopia. Nearly every
city street leads to some trail. Many of the
mountains are low and easy to climb and there
are trails at the very top leading from one
mountain to another. Partly because privately
owned automobiles are rare, and partly be-
cause of their inherent love of the out of doors,
the Japanese do much- hiking. Over week—
ends the trails are dotted with Japanese fami-
lies, many of them wearing their kimonos and
sandals. Not only over week-
ends do they hike, however,
but every morning, very ear-
1y. One American family who
lives at the foot of a moun-
tain reports that there is no
sleep after five—thirty A. M.
for at that time young men
run and older men walk by
the dozens past the door and
up the trails. At six A. M.
the radio loud speaker starts
in the t e m p l e compound
across .the street, and the
hikers quickly gather there
for fifteen minutes of setting-
up exercise.

The Sports Program

As the East and the \Vest
reach a deeper and more sym—
pathetic understanding, sport
will undoubtedly be an im-
portant factor. The modern
Japanese go in wholehearted-
ly and very creditably for for-
eign games, and on the ath-
letic field kimono and sandals
are discarded for modern ath-

We are sharing with our readers
a letter from Erna Bunke Carson.
who. prior to her marriage in Sep-
tember, I934. served for a num-
ber of years as Field SecretaryI
Play in Institutions, for the Na-
areas. tional Recreation Association. a
position in which she did pioneer
group participation, there is WOVk- Since her marriage Mrs-
Carson has lived in China' at times
in Japanese controlled territory.
and she has traveled extensively
through the country.

 

letic clothes. Baseball is tre—
mendously popular. It is said
that when’ four Chinese meet
they form a mahjong club,
and when nine Japanese get
together they organize a base-
ball team. Rugby is also
played, and tennis, golf, bas-
ketball and volley ball. Arch—
ery is growing in popularity;
kendo, Japanese fencing, is
nationally approved; j u d o,
the gentle art of self defense,
is taught for its physical values, and sumo,
Japanese wrestling, is considered excellent for
both physical and mental training. However,
since sports like kendo, judo, su'mo, archery,
require great skill and technique, the number
of participants is comparatively small. In
striking contrast are the numbers who come
daily for swimming, tennis, baseball, volley
ball, skating, sponge ball. At almost any hour
of the day, there are young men, dressed in
shorts, running through the streets of Dairen
in training for the citizens’
athletic meet, or the Cross
Country Marathon race, both
annual events.

Spectators play an impor-
tant role in the sports pro-
gram here. Swimming pools
are built with attached seats
and at p u bl i c swimming
meets there is always a large
gallery. No American audi-
ence ever shouted. more en-
thusiastically or more loudly
than do the thousands of Jap-
anese who over—flow the sta-
diums at all baseball games.
During important contests
many people send telegrams
of encouragement or congrat-
ulations to known or un-
known participants.

Social Recreation

l)airen, like Japan proper,
is a mixture of the old and
the new. The dignified bow-
ing, the lunch of raw fish and
seaweed, the pretty kimono
and the samisen music are

586 ' A LETTER FROM THE ORIENT

competing with foreign clothes, permanent waves,
jazz and the equivalent of an American ice cream
parlor. Foreign dancing is extremely popular, but
as a rule Japanese girls do not go out danc—
ing with their young men. The six dance halls
have paid dancing partners, Japanese, Chinese,
Russian girls, who are under strict police su—
pervision, and here the Japanese men go for
an evening of dancing. Dinner parties in res-
taurants form another type of popular recrea—
tion, but again it is the men who spend an
evening eating their favorite foods and play—
ing numerous games with child~like enthusi-
asm. Jon kin po (stone, scissors, paper) ; hunt—
er, gun, fox; going to Jerusalem (using cush—
ions in place of chairs); egg blowing races,
are all well liked. One race always creates
loud laughter. This is played with five Go
men (small, slippery discs, similar to those
used in Tiddly—\Vinks). The participants must
pick up the Go men with chop sticks and
place them, one by one, in a rice bowl. Since
speed is the main factor this is more difficult
than it sounds. At many of these parties
geisha girls sing, play their samisens and
dance slow, graceful folk dances. Sometimes
the gramaphone is brought in for a bit of for—
eign dancing.

The daily life of the Japanese seems to be
closely connected with nature. There are a
great many Japanese gardens in the city. The
poorest people, if they have any land at all, will
raise flowers. ,If they have no land, they raise
potted flowers. Because of this national love
of flowers the art of flower arrangement forms
an important part in the cultural education of
Japanese women. This is taught to girls in the
public schools, but many follow with years of
private lessons. There are different schools of
flower arrangement, but in all schools the ar—
rangement must have three sprays of different
height, the tallest representing heaven, the
shortest, earth, and the middle one, man.

There is art also in the graceful tea cere-
-mony. This consists simply of serving tea to
a guest, but the ceremony is conducted with
an elaborate code of rules and is supposed to
bring poise, grace, and mental composure to
both guest and hostess.

Often, at full moon, there are moon viewing
trips. Large numbers of people go to some
beautiful spot to look at the moon, and ama—
teur photographers competegfor honors in tak—

   
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  

ing moon pictures. And when the cherry blos
soms come out the whole city goes to se
them! There is something particularly fasc
nating to the Japanese about cherry blossom
which are regarded as symbols of spring an
the blessings of nature. Suddenly rows (
pink blossoms appear everywhere—in privat
gardens, temple compounds, public park.
along city streets, and then men take thei
families and their neighbors’ families, their lunc
and their musical instruments, and spend a ver
gay day out of doors under sakura blooms.

Where Festivals Abound

The Japanese have many festivals. In addi
tion to twelve national celebrations there ar
a number of local interest. Some, with their re
ligious or historical pageants are very spectac
ular. The most popular one is probably the
Boys’ Festival which comes in March. \Vitl
all the secret thrills of Christm , _
gay and festive figures and statues to deligh
the hearts of their young sons wooden effl
gies of famous generals, statesmen, scholars:
swords, guns, planes, flags. The exhibit is
martial and warlike. but it is intended to in-
spire the boys with the virtues of modesty.
bravery and obedience, rather than to instil
warlike tendencies. On this day, high over
the roofs fly silk or paper carps to indicate
the number and size of the boys in each family.

The Doll Festival is equally popular for the
girls. And then there are such alluring cele-
brations as the Festival for Enjoying Coolness,
the Coming of Autumn, the Star Festival in
honor of the happy meeting of two star lovers.
At New Year’s time the city is full of colorful
gayety. Boys fly kites; girls play battledore
and shuttlecock; new clothes are worn ; streets
and houses are decorated with pine and bam—
boo, and there are many presents, much call—
ing, much smiling.

This is a superficial picture of recreation in
Dairen, but somehow, when I see a little black—
haired girl in a pink kimono on a playground
swing, or watch two hundred men participat—
ing in an athletic meet, the 11,000 miles from
here to the office of the National Recreation
Association do not seem so long, for the creeds
and philosophies preached and practised there r
are winning increasing recognition over here. '
Play should do much to bring the nations of
the world together.

SJ
U]
0
1"?
LT
(13
"1
U]
._.|
in}
S
4%

 

I
r I

Croquet at Eighty-two

| NE OF THE big prob—
I lenis of a public rec—
. reation department is
I' to furnish outdoor activities
for mcn past fifty years of age. We have found
in croquet the solution to the problem. '

Croquet requires just enotigh exertion to be
: stimulating. and the stooping and bending neces—

 

" sary in using thc short handle mallet exercise the

‘ muscles and organs not ordinarily used by the
oldest age group. The result of a game of croquet
is an exhilaration that is not experienced in any
other game we have played.

\Ve were troubled by the many different ideas
of how the game should be played, and upon in—
vestigation found that there are no standard rules
of play. A meeting was called by the Recrea—
tion Division of all those in thc city interested in
playing croquet and in establishing a standard set
of rulcs. Sixty men attended this meeting, and
after much discussion tentative rules of play were
agreed upon. to be used for a period of one month.
At the end of the month another meeting was held,
and with changes and additions
final rules were adopted.

A croquet court 50’ x 100’ was
made in Central Park, by cutting
the grass closely and establishing
the boundaries by laying tennis
co u rt marking tape, properly
wired. to the ground. This grass
turf. when closely clipped, makes
a splendid cushion and the men
prefer it to a skinned court. Thc
cost of the court was less than
three dollars.

The game, with the new courts
and standardization of rules, has
aroused so much interest that it
has been impossible in the short
time we have been promoting the

llNever too old to playl'l The
youngest member of this quar-
tet is 69 years of age; the
oldestI 82. They show remark-r
able skill in their playing.

By WALTER R. H. SHERMAN

Director of Recreation
Louisvillel Kentucky

game. to satisfy the demand.

we held our first tourna-
ment in September. The aver—
age age of four contestants

was 72 years, the oldest being 82, the youngest 69
years of agc. There were Fifty-nine men entered,
ranging in age from 28 years to the oldest, 82
ycars. The average number of spectators was 230
pcr match with more than 425 watching the finals.
Thesc players have developed a skill in the play-
ing of the game that is almost unbelievable, play—
ing balls for position with cuts and “English.” as
in the game of billiards. '

When not playing, the men are busy in our
handicraft shops, turning out mallets.on small
lathes, constantly striving for perfection in their
equipinent and skill in the game. Some of the
men have made croquet balls of walnut and lig—
num-vitae. although the majority prefer to play
with a solid hard rubber ball furnished by the
Division of Recreation. These balls are 3%

inches in diameter and weigh between fourtecn
and sixteen ounces. The mallet made by thcse

 

587

588

men usually weighs
about two pounds, is
constructed of various
woods, with brass or
iron ferrules at the
ends of the mallet
head, and the heads
are faced with hard
rubber or fiber. The
weight of the mallet,
the size of the handle,
as well as the finish,
are in accordance with
the ideas of the indi-
vidual, and keen rival;
ry exists in the mak—
ing of the various
types of mallets.

CROQUET RULES

MalletSL—Description

Rule 1: There shall be
no restrictions as tO size,
weight or kind Of mallet used.

In. holding mallet for stroke, the hand shall not touch
the head of mallet.

Breaking of Mallet or Ball

Rule 2: Should a mallet or hall be broken in play, they
must be replaced, and the stroke made over.

Balls—Order of Colors in Play

Rule 3.‘ The order Of colors in play should be Red,
White, Blue and Black; but the game may be Opened by
playing any color first, partners always being red and
blue, white and black. ‘

The ball played with shall not weigh more than 16

ounces.

Opening of Game

Rule 4: All games shall be opened ‘by scoring from an
imaginary straight line running directly across the court
through the middle Of the center arches, each player
shooting a ball toward the boundary line at the head Of
the court. The halls should be shot simultaneously on
separate sides Of an imaginary line running from stake
tO stake. A score fails if the ball hits another ball, an
arch, the stake, or the border. If bOth scores fail, an-
other tr,ial must he made. The player, the center of
whose ball rests nearer the boundary line shall have the
choice Of play and balls.

The starting ball shall then be plac-
ed 011 the starting spot and shall be
stroked through the first wicket. If
the ball fails tO make the first wicket
the ball is in play and alive on all
other balls. Every ball starting shall
have a clear shOt through the first
wicket and in the event another ball

 

They make their own equipment, taking the
greatest possible pride in the workmanship

So many requests have been
made for the' rules of croquet
as it is played by the older
men in Louisville, that we are
producing them here, together
with a diagram of the court used.

CROQUET AT ElGHTY—TWO

blOcks the first wicket,
the starter shall have the
privilege Of shooting Off
the ball as though already
in full play. Two points
shall be allowed for the
first two wickets only. A
ball making two wickets
(other than the first two
wickets), pOints made
shall be counted but only
one stroke allowed.

Points—How Made.—
Their Numbers
How the Next Point is
Made After Passing
Arch No. 7

Rule 5: A pOint is made
whenever a ball, as a re—
sult Of a fair play by a
player, his partner, or his
opponent, makes an arch
or hits a stake in proper
sequence. Every pOint
thus made must be counted. Each ball has sixteen points
tO make, the basket counting as one pOint. Making a
point for an Opponent, or for a partner ball does not
cause the playing ball to become alive on any dead ball.

Markers—Their Purpose and Use

Rule 6: There shall be four colored markers Red,
\Vhite, Blue, Black), with face side easily distinguish-
able, aud so used to properly indicate the progress of the
ball. The marker is placed on the top Of the arch next
to be made, with face toward the position side. The
marker for the stake is placed on the top Of the arch. If
the marker must be so placed as not to interfere with a
ball rolling On the ground. Upon making a point, the
player may remove his marker and carry it with him
until he finishes his turn.

Interference with the Game

Rule 7: When a player is making a stroke, no one
should seek to speak to him or attract his attention.
Should an Opponent dO so, or stay on the bed of the
court, the player may replace all balls moved and repeat
the stroke.

Stroke—Delivery Of

Rule 8: A stroke is made if a ball moves when a
player attempts tO strike it.

Premature Stroke

Rule 9: If a player strikes his play-
ing ball before his Opponent has tin-
ished his turn, all balls moved by such
a strOke shall be replaced and the shot
made over. A player has not finished
his turn until he has left the court.

CROQUET AT EIGHTY-TPVO 589

If he steps off from the bed of the court, with both feet,
he shall be considered to have left the court.

Balls—Counting Upon

Rule 10: A playing ball “counts upon” a live ball on
the court when it comes in contact with it by a fair
stroke from the face of the player’s mallet.

Ball—Stopped After Counting on Another Ball

Rule 11: A player may stOp his playing ball after it
counts upon a ball if it is clearly apparent that it will
not again come in contact with another ball, and it is not
a foul if under those circumstances it should strike his
foot, person, mallet, or clothing.

Ball—Taking Play From When Counted Upon

Rule 12: (a) \Vhen the playing ball counts upon an-
other ball, play must be taken from it, causing the object
ball to move away from the playing ball.

(l1) 1When taking play from a ball, the player must not
strike his ball twice, nor give it a second impetus.

(6) Should a player move a ball when placing his ball
against it to take play from it, it shall be returned to its
former place by the umpire or Opponent before the play
can proceed.

(d) If in making a split shot the playing ball hits a
dead ball, or if an object ball hits it live or a dead ball,
not lying out of bounds, it is not a foul; therefore play
continues ashthough the said ball had not been hit. The
live or dead ball so struck is to be replaced.

(1“) If in making a shot, any ball, lying in contact, or
nearly in contact with an arch, should be moved by any
ball hitting said arch, it is not a foul, and said ball shall
not be replaced.

(f) No player shall pound the object ball into the
ground, thus making a depression, and thus making it
possible to set his playing ball against the object ball,
except when playing grass, turf court.

Balls—Hitting Two or More

Rule 13: If a player by direct shot hits two or more
balls that are on the court, play must be taken from the
first ball hit, provided it was a live ball. In case of a split
shot, play must be taken from the first live ball hit. If
two live balls are hit simultaneously, the player has his
choice of either, to play from, and the other of the two
is still a live ball.

Balls—Alive On All After Each Point Made

Rule 14: A player in each turn of play is at liberty to
count upon each of the other balls once only before mak-
ing a point. After each point made for his playing ball,
he is again alive on all the balls.

Point—Making and Hitting a' Ball At Same Stroke

Rule 15: If a player makes a point for his own play-
ing ball, and afterward with the same stroke hits a ball
on the court, he must take the point and use the ball.

Point—Making After Counting On a Ball

Rule 16: If a ball counts upon another ball, and after-
ward at the same stroke makes a point, for the playing

ball, the player must take play from the ball and reject
the point. If the point were for a partner ball, or for an
opponent’s ball, it shall count.

Points—Making Two or More At the Same Stroke

Rule 17: If a playing ball makes two or more points
for itself at the same stroke, the points all count, but the
player has only the same privilege of stroke as if it made
but one, except for first two wickets.

Rule .18: A player continues to play so long as his ball
makes a point for the playing ball, or counts upon an-
other ball.

Boundary _
Rule 1‘): Boundary lines dividing the court into three
sections shall be considered, as shown in the diagram in
the following page.

Ball Shot Over the Boundary

Rule 20: (a) A ball shall be considered out of bounds
when it has passed over the white line and is not touch-
ing the line. '

(b) A ball going out of bounds, shall be returned and
placed on spot on boundary, in the section of court in
which it passed out of bounds.

(C) An object ball kited out of bounds by a direct shot
or a roqued shot, shall be returned and placed on the
boundary spot and play ceases. Player is not dead on a
ball kited out of bounds, but is dead on a ball roqued out
of bounds.

(d) A playing ball going out of bounds and returned
to boundary spot, cannot continue play until the next
regular turn.

(e) A ball on the boundary Spot cannot shoot at any
other ball in that section, if placed on spot by the player
or partner.

(f) The partner of a ball on the boundary spot, cannot
shoot at the ball on the boundary spot, if in the same
section of court, and if placed on spot by partner.

(9) In playing single matches, if a player shoots the
dummy ball (usually the red) out of bounds, the ball is

placed on the Spot and the player cannot shoot at the
ball on the spot until he has made his next wicket, after

which time he can resume play on the dummy ball.

(l1) \Vhen playing on a ball which has been placed on
the boundary or boundary spot; if the balls go out of
bounds they are returned to the boundary and play
continued.

(2') If playing bail leaves court after striking a live
ball, play continues, provided object ball stays in the
court. .

(j) If playing ball leaves court by striking a dead ball
upon a direct shot. the playing ball shall be placed on the
boundary spot and dead ball is replaced.

Balls-——Two or More Shot Over the Boundary
Rule 21: \Vhen two or more balls go out of bounds,
on a play, the playing ball, is placed on the boundary
spot and the other ball returned to the boundary line at
point it went out.

590

Place on Boundary Occupied By Other Ball

Rule 22: When a ball goes out of bounds and the
boundary spot is occupied by another ball, the last ball

out of bounds will take the spot on the opposite side of
the court in the same section. If both spots in the same
section are occupied, 'the last ball will wait until a spotted

ball has shot.

Ball—Making Position From Wrong Direction

Rule 23: If a ball is played or driven under an arch

from the wrong direction, and
rests so that a straight edge

CROQUET AT EIGHTY—T-WO

Ball—Stopped By An Obiect On the Court

Rule 28: (a) If a ball is stopped, or diverted from its'
course by any person or object on the court not pertain-

ing to the game, the shot may be repeated.

(b) If a player is attempting to make a point, or a shot,
and the playing ball, or the ball he is playing upon or
from, hits his foot, person, mallet or clothing, play ceases
and all balls shall be replaced.

Repairing Damage to Ground or Arches
Rule 29: A player before or
during his play may require
i that any damage to. or bad

laid against the arch on the ,\g_
side from which it came, fails '1»- 0§~ _ condition of balls, the ground,
to touch it, it is in position-—— OP“? E or the arches shall be repair-
to run that arch in the right ed, or I'ECti‘FlECl, but no court
direction. 5 .1' l2 1 shall be redressed during a
. F Si” game, without the consent of
Ball—Talung Play Under H , both p13
. ., .. m yers.
“5 Arch sec-Lion c -o_ '- No player shall mark the
Rule 24: If any part of a 7' ; ‘8‘ ‘9' g 7' border or the surface of the
ball has been placed under any ' H' ' " " " " ' " ' 'H' i " '"' ‘ " ' ' ‘7'" court, during the game. in
portion of an arch, in order to " order to apparently aid him in
take play from another ball, directing his shot.
it is not in position to run that
arch, unless after taking play, 3. .3 Rover Ba”_Righ+ of play
it rests in position as deter- N
mined by rule 24. Rule .30: A rover has the
right to play upon each of the
Ball—When Through . other balls once only during
A" ArCh '3 Spo'l‘ + Sf“: each turn of play, and may be
Rule 25: A ball, running its " played upon as any other ball.
arch in the right direction, is S  - "
through when a straight edge ec‘ '°” B _ Complelring H19 Game.—
laid across the arch on the '2': a (5+aking Ou”
side from which the ball came
does not, touch the ball. Rule 31: When partner balls
Ball—Rolling Back Through 7' . .g' ,8. . . are mers’ the playm‘g ha"
-41..- _ _ .___ _ _ _H._____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _,_:__,_z_ finally completes the game by
or under A” Arch ‘ taking play from its partner
Rule 26: (a) If a ball, in '9' - ball, driving it and the play-
making an arch, does not hit a v—4 i:- ing ball against the stake by
ball, the stake or the border, a single Split shot, or ball
and rolls back, through or un— 5731- ‘0 5?; against the stake by a single
der the arch, so that a straight - split shot, or by a 'split shot
edge applied touches it, the Sea,“ [Iii Opnr _ and a direct shot in succes-
point is not made, but the ball 3» ;( '2 ‘ sion, all four balls being on
is in position to run the arch. ,f’q‘ the court. If in the split shot
(b) Should the ball hit the 50’ only the partner ball hits the

stake, roll back through or
under the arch, the point is
made, and the player continues his play.

(e) Should the ball hit a ball and roll back through or
under the arch, the point is not made. If the 'ball hit was
a live ball. he takes play from it; if a dead ball, his play
ceases and all balls shall be replaced, and stroke is lost.

Ball—Stopped By Opponent

Rule 27: If a ball is stopped or diverted from its course
by an opponent, the player may repeat the shot. If stop-
ped by a partner player, it shall constitute a foul on the
player who made the shot.

stake, it is still in play, and

it must be prOperly on the
court when the playing ball completes the game. If a
player fails in an attempt to stake out, he may with his
last shot, play on any live ball or balls, playing the same
as in any other turn of play, except that he cannot stake
out, at that turn of play. Unless both balls hit the stake
in successive shots in one turn, or in one shot, neither
shall be considered “staked out,” but both must hit the
stake again.

Penalty tor a Foul Stroke

Rule 32: (a) All balls moved by a stroke which vio-
lates, or results in the violation of a rule, must be re-

(Com‘imted on page 610)

 

 

Recreation and the Transient Progrom

come into its own as an in—

tegral part of the federal transient program.
Faced with the more immediate problems of fur-
nishing food and shelter to the great number of
migratory individuals and families for whom the
Government assumed responsibility in 1933, and
often underestimating the vital importance of
constructive leisure time programs, transient ad—
ministrators have in the main been unable to place
upon recreation the emphasis it deserves as a part
of all such projects. Not until this past year had
there been evidence of a growing general rec0g—
nition by transient units of the value of planned

RECREATION has just begun to

recreation activities. The period of uncertainty

last fall concerning the future of the transient
program as a whole tended to bring to a stand-
still what advances had been achieved, but with
the taking over of most transient set-ups as work
projects by the Works Progress Administration.
this feeling has been dissipated and great emphasis
is again being laid upon recreation and other
similar problems.

Recreation activities in transient camps and
shelters have been, and in too many cases unfor-
tunately still are, characterized by overemphasis
in one or two directions and by the failure so to
plan activities that all participate. The develop-
ment of the programs has resembled Topsv’s
growth. Lacking both adequate leadership and
equipment, activities have tended to center around
the abilities and interests of a few transients in
each unit. Many camps and shelters availed them-
selves of the opportunity of securing semi—skilled
leadership from the emergency education project
of the FERA, and many more are using this same
type of leadership from similar \VPA projects.
These two sources have resulted
somewhat in the expansion of
activities along more varied

Despite the paucity of leader-
ship and facilities the accom-
plishments are indeed surpris-
ing. In most cases provided
with but one or two rooms and

By LEWIS ROHRBAUGH

Mr. Rohrbaugh, Supervisor. Adult

lines. Education and Recreation' Federal
Works Progress Administration for
the Commonwealth of Pennsyl-
vanial tells of the changing empha-
ses in recreation in the transient
program. and traces the develop-
ments which have taken place.

practically no equipment, transi-
ent units have successfully tapped
many sympathetic sources. And one of the most
remarkable achievements has been the success ex—
perienced in making use of community resources.
Social and other agencies have donated physical
facilities, equipment of all kinds has been loaned
or given by varying types of public and private
agencies, local and state libraries have fUrnished
collections of books, and the resultant programs
are in direct contrast to the meagre facilities at

first available.

The Activities

As would be expected, althletics occupy the
position of chief importance in the majority of
transient recreation programs. Practically all units
had mushball or baseball teams during the past
season; many branch out into other forms of
sport. Libraries fairly well stocked with books
and magazines are to be found in most centers.
l\lost centers also have what might be termed
game rooms, but in too many cases these are
rooms for which no other use could be found,
small ill-lighted and poorly ventilated lounging
places equipped with limited and well-worn sup-
plies of table games. checkers, dominoes, a few
packs of dog—cared cards and the like. Too often
these three general types of activties, plus an oc-
casional minstrel show or other entertainment,
make up the whole of the program. This is
especially tI‘Ue of the more isolated camps.

A number of centers have developed craft
groups, and a few have gone unusually far in this
respect. Differing from the more standardized
forms taken by these craft groups in the average
recreation program, the transient projects vary
from one extreme to the other.
Transients in Fargo, North Dan
kota, have taken up sketching,
while those in Savannah, GeOr-
gia, make iron furniture. Men
in the camp at Fort Eustis, Vir—
ginia, tum out very wearable
lounging slippers and transients
in Bellevue. Nebraska, learn the

591

592 RECREATION AND THE TRANSIENT PROGRAM

art of book binding. In some instances craft
groups haveyso developed that their products are
of unusual Significance. In Florida, for example,
the men at Camp Foster have made playthings
during the past year for that state’s FERA
nursery schools; transient women in Greenville,
South Carolina, have made clothing for the clients
of the center there; sign painting groups in Phila-
delphia have composed and painted signs for the
units and for local social agencies.

The possibilities in music and dramatics are
largely unexplored, chiefly because of the difficulty
of securing equipment and leadership. Most
transient units have radios and pianos, the latter
employed in rather spasmodic group singing.
Comparativer few units have been able to under-
take much in the field of instrumental music. One
of Philadelphia’s centers had, during the early
part of last year, a group of “hill billies” who did
considerable broadcasting. The camp at Algiers
Naval Station in New Orleans has an orchestra,
as do several other centers. Minstrel and other
amateur shows compose most of the dramatic ac-
tivities, the former being particularly popular. In
a few instances some emphasis is placed upon the
staging of plays by the wanderers. During the
past summer transients in Philadelphia con-
structed their own stage—complete with foot-
lights—from materials donated by interested or-
ganizations, painted the scenery, and presented
short plays, well-adapted to the audiences and
original more often than not, under the direction
of a famous oldtime actor who
was employed by the FERA edu-
cation project.

One of the most interesting
features of the recreation pro-
grams has been the development
of the papers and magazines is-
sued by the transients themselves.
Usually mimeographed, t h e s e
publications furnish an outlet for
expression and are the source of
much rivalry between the various
camps and shelters. \r'arying from
the sharply critical to the “up-
lift" type, many of the papers _
have so developed in appearance
and content that they put to
shame the house organs of most
industrial flrms. Not at all con-
fined to comments upon events in
the centers whence they originate,

F...
of
r.

. 5.:

Courtesy Nation]! Parks of Canada. Department of the Interior

the majoritydevote space to reports of and com-
ments on current national and international hap—
penings. A number carry articles treating the
transient situation. The titles carried by the
papers often refer to the locality or to the cir-

cumstances out of which the paper arose. Typical
among them are The Nomad, The W aysidcr,

The Four-Eleven, The Sooner Trail, The New
Deal and The Panhandle.

Most gratifying has been the spirit exhibited by
outside organizations in lending a hand towards
the development of diversional activities. Schools
and other similar organizations have furnished
free tickets to sports events: musical and dra—
matic societies have presented a variety of enter—
taimnents, and so on down the list. So, too, with
equipment and physical facilities. City units are
using athletic fields and gymnasiums through the
cooperation of bureaus of recreation; interested
and far-sighted firms and individuals have donated
books, craft materials and a hundred and one

other types of equipment.

Progress Is Being Made

These facts bear testimony to the praiseworthy
strides taken by transient units in the development
of recreation programs,despite tremendous handi-
caps present since the outset. Although programs
in the majority of the centers are far from bal-
anced and do not make for participation by all,
increasing attention is being paid to this aspect of

(Continued on page 611)

 

 

 

Nature Education

By Social

WILLIAM GOULD VINAL
National Recreation Association

loose ends of his experiences in comparative
anatomy, in histology, in bacteriology, and
perhaps in physiological chemistry, and utilize
them in the solution of present day problems? Can
he take his present knowledge of trees, birds and
flowers and put it to work on the TVA or juve-
nile delinquency, or on city parks, or CCC or
\\'PA recreation programs? One definition of
education is “To prevent a man from being hum-
bugged by the newspapers.” After weighing evi-
dcnce in the science “lab” can the student weigh
political propaganda poured upon his eyes and ears
relative to conservation and hunting? Is he aware
that clean streams, game fish, fur bearers, song
birds, vistas, the wilderness itself, like timber, are
forest products and hence public utilities? \7Vhat
is his attitude toward and appreciation of city
parks, public camping grounds for autoists, out-
door stoves, nature trails, or wilderness area for
hikers? Does the city with 30 foot lots as com»
pared with 60 foot lots, one acre subsistence areas,
fenceless gardens, biology laboratories lighted at
night (as well as gyms and music rooms) and
auto caravan trips have any implications to him?
\Vhat does it avail to know more about Cuvier
and Maphigi than about juvenile delinquency in
the adjoining city block; to sketch parasites on a
fish if nearby streams are contaminated and fish-
less; to become skilled in identifying bacteria
when Shanty Town is polluting the only stream in
the neighborhood; to memorize formulae for
amino acids when the nitrogen waste in the sewer
is being locked up forever in the sea? Of what
good is it to be supreme in laboratory technique if
the human race within view of the conning tower
of the biological table is 100 years belated? Why
repeat classical experiments when new eXperi-
ments are needed for social welfare?
To learn that scientific experiments need plan-
ning and then to right about face and adopt a
Zaissez fai-re policy with humans is inconsistent.

CAN THE AVERAGE. college student pick up the

and Recreational

How to help people utilize for
the benefit of the community
the scientific knowledge they
have acquired; how to trans-
form the "cloistered biologist”
into a recreation worker—this.
in a word is the theme Dr. Vinal
discusses as he presents some of
the problems involved in train-
ing leaders in nature education.

 

\V hat the masses need is applied biology in the
laundry, in the backyard, in camp, and in the
metropolitan parks where life is lived. They need
to know the window box, the playground, and the
forests as points of refuge in times of poverty
and unemployment. They must be taught how
streams and soil can be made productive and
pleasureable. They must be given that biological
philosophy that enables them to visualize things,
time, space and progress in the large.

The Law of Change

To change is a natural law. It applies to every-
thing. W e are continually obtaining new hair, fin-
gernails, skin, and cells. If gravity should be-
come a few pounds less (or we went to live on the
moon) we would need to enlarge our baseball
diamonds and to change the accompanying rules.
The heights of trees, the speed of winds, rivers,
and autos, blood pressure and stooped shoulders.
are subject to the control of gravity. Dcpressions,
governments, hobbies, wars, mailed fists, utiliza-
tion of wastes, and education are also subject to
change. With a changed world there must come a
change in biological education.

The law of adaptation is the price of change.
The mastodon didn’t adapt himself to a change
and he exists only in museums. Let the ther-
mometer change ten degrees and there will be
those who cannot survive. Bring on a new kind of
depression (according to natural law it would
have to be new) and a certain number of people
would be physically or professionally extermi-

593

594 NATURE EDUCATION SOCIAL AND RECREATIONAL

nated. Abandon the subject-centered curriculum
and many leaders could -not adapt themselves.
They might just as well be placed along side of
the mastodou. How can such a person step out-
side of himself and view the situation?

One way to test the new is to think it through
with some familiar object. The automobile is no
longer new. Every year it changes and with the
changes come new responsibilities. It is not now
so important that we be able to put patches on
tires, or that we be technicians in regulating the
timing, or that we blow a horn at every cross
street. Road side courtesy, attitude in regard to
safety, and skill in judging are becoming increas-
ineg important. What is true of autos is also true
of biology. We do not all need to trace the nerves
of a cat, to diagnose diphtheria, or to give the
sugar test. The subject-centered biology, the
technical biology is giving away to the social—rec-
reational biology. Everyday biology must con-
tribute to the health, home, citizenship, charac—
ter building, and leisure time of the every day

person.

A Few Examples

Social-recreational biology is already coming
into its own. In Cincinnati there is a blighted dis—
trict that has I /40th of the popu-
lation. But it has I/20th of the
crime and I /20th of the deaths
from social diseases and tubercu-
losis. Recently there has been a
slum clearance project which has
opened up a 12 acre plat—an area
larger than all of the rest of Cin—
cinnati's playgrounds combined.
The cellar holes have been filled
and top soil brought in. The (li-
rector of recreation combed the
country to obtain a leader capa—
ble of using the twelve acres to
wipe out crime and disease. Such
a potential leader was discovered
on the Pacific coast. She has
started to whip the problem——

It only the biologist will take
advantage of their interest in
the "Little Red Hen" and other
living things. and interpret Na-
ture in terms they understand!

what William James might call the “moral equi-
valent 0f war"—-—by having the folks of the dis—
trict grow flowers.

Social re—creation through nature applies equally
well to the rural areas. Fifty miles out of De-
troit, in what is known as the Hartland Areas, a
business man has fifty projects underway for re—
storing the morale of folks who were sitting on
the verandas waiting for something to happen
which never happened. It is his contribution to
his birthplace. On the farm are raised pure bred
Shropshire sheep. These are given to country
boys and girls who in turn give back a part of the
offspring that more boys and girls may have a
similar opportunity. Is this recreation or educa-
tion? Is it play or is it work? Is it social science
or biological science? The important thing is that
it is a situation out of which Come experiencing
and enjoying rather than memorizing and reciting.

Take another example. In the same village is
a craft shop where are made looms. These are
loaned to families who are taught to weave. They
may also learn to raise the requisite flax and to
spin the thread. If they become sufficiently inter-
ested they can purchase the loom and pay for it
with homespun linen. \Vhether a family chooses
to raise sheep or flax or some other of the rich

 

NATURE EDUCATION SOCIAL AND RECREATIONAL 595

offerings the program is a means of raising the
level of subsistence. It is a mental challenge. It
is a provision for a rainy day———for the time when
the farm is not panning gold. It is not a plan for
giving nine loaves of bread today and nine loaves
again tomorrow. It is a plan that enables the
famin to retain its self respect. It restores to the
home that which the machine took away.

How would you apply your biology education
to the following case? Two hundred and eighty
families, fifteen miles from a civic center are liv—
ing in shell-like structures of summer cottages on
the shores of one of the Great Lakes. Eighty five
per cent were on relief until the \VPA set them
to work. One hundred and twenty-five children
with no yards for play. The school building is
reached by bus and is not available for com—
munity gatherings. The only building is a public
dance hall with no windows, shutters down for
the winter, still well ventilated, and one stove with
no fuel. The only open area is a cattail marsh
which must be frozen to use and then you cannot
wander far lest the oil companies object. Off
shore are three barren islands put up by a gov-
ernment dredging project. Sweep across this
scene the bitter lake winds and then try to picture
play (lays! Trying to carry on in the “cold as a
barn" dance hall is a handcraft leader who is busy
most of the time crumpling newspaper for the
stove or rubbing the numbed hands of runny-
nosed youngsters. The game leader is having bet-
ter success with her circle game as the older
youngsters are running by two’s. Picture your
nature leader alongside of the other staff. Is he
going to take children on a field trip with their
toes peeking out of their shoes? He cannot col—
lect cattails for handcraft as that should have
been done last summer. There is a goodly growth
of yellow willow along the banks of the marsh
but they do not furnish whips for weaving willow
baskets. Stand your leadership training program
in nature education alongside of such conditions
and select from it the activities that will meet the
situation and if the program does not offer ideas
it needs revamping.

Nature Hobbies

Perhaps the best guide to a nature recreation
program is the nature hobby. Nature hobbies are
present in every community. Most of us do not
recognize them as nature recreation. A motor-
man raises canaries, but not for sale. A physician
grows alpine flowers in his backyard. A nurse

escapes the sordid side of life by raising tropical
fish. Three business men on our street have rock
gardens. The PTA is having a series of lectures
and demonstrations on flower arrangement.
Japanese dish gardens are “all the go” in the de—
partment stores. Among my friends are iris
growers, pigeon fanciers, dyed-in-the—wool fish—
erman, “glad” specialists, and backyard bee keep-
ers. Everyone of these nature hobbyists stand the
test of the objectives of education. They are car-
rying on in spite of teachers and recreation lead—
ers. What would have happened if such channels
of interest could have been opened up to the hun-
dreds of others with nothing to do?

If nature hobbies were to be eliminated from
any big city there would be suffering. It would
make a difference to that city. At the Toledo
Boys’ Club I recently saw a handcraft person who
had a roomful of newsboys doing twelve different
projects. What is needed is leaders who can pre-
sent a three—ring offering of nature hobbies. The
work of making aquaria out of junk-yard auto-
windshields and of raising tropical fish may make
a happy, self-respecting naturalist out of a dis-
carded steel worker. Reconditioned steel—workers
go out into the world again just as do resuscitated
goldfish or impoverished seedlings with sunshine
turned on them. The potential re-creation value of
nature as demonstrated by nature hobbyists in
every community and its reclamation value for
folks discarded by the depression is too great to
be overlooked by nature educators in these trying
times. People are starving for nature. If we have
the vision for training leaders we can yet reclaim
many of the down—and-outs and what is perhaps
more significant we can guarantee that no more
shall folks sit and wait for something to happen.

A walking biological dictionary who is 100 per
cent efficient in transmitting the factotems of
pedagogs is surprisingly limited when cut loose
from the apronstringing professor. If the child
of laboratory-luxury cannot put “it” in a test tube
or preserve “it” in formaldehyde or quote bio-
logical ritual he is stumped. There is no carry
over from the analysis of a rock to the analysis of
social problems. Should not schools of education
for training teachers for the future spend less
time in administering technical biology and at-
tempt to teach these students some of the present
biological handy—knacks of everydayness?

And, let it be said that the technical biologist
need not look upon recreational natUre activities

' (Continued on page 612)

Winter Day Camps in New York City

HE SLOGAN, “A Camp for Every Child,” heard
Tten or twelve years ago, was probably consid-

ered the absurd dream of camp enthusiasts.
but today it seems not so absurd nor unconsidered.
It is actually a possibility that in the not-too—far
future there really may be a camp for every child.
Not so many years before that, possibly thirty. the
word camp began to be applied to the vacations
that were organized by a small group of educators
for boys and girls who could afford to pay well
for this kind of experience, under careful guid-
ance. The directors of these private camps be—
lieved there was great value in the opportunity to
live a rugged existence in remote and beautiful
environment away from the exacting demands of
the school and high tension of city-life during the
winter. It was a plan to compensate for the lacks
in city living and a plan to reopen the way to self
discovery. Even in those early days these direct-
ors, who were educators in all cases, realized that

children were losing the splen—
did character-building influences
of the old rural life with its
chores to develop responsibility
and where the play activities
had fields and woods to explore,
and trees to climb, where flow-
ers and vegetables were grow-
ing and there were animals both
wild and domestic and living
conditions that offered a chal—
lenge to initiative and stamina.
The school class room and the
city home had not found any
training method that could in-
ject the same sturdiness of
moral. fibre.

The directors also saw that
camping restored a richness of
living that could not be found
in class room training nor in
city homes. Here were color,
romance and the traditions of
the American pioneer. From
the experiments developed in
the privately owned camps was
596

By MAUDE L. DRYDEN

Senior Proiec’r Supervisor

.Day Ou’ring Camps

created the philosophy of present day camping
techniques. Certain of its fundamental principles
are applicable to the wide variety of camping or-
ganizations now operating.

The fact New York City is finding that camp-
ing should be included in the plans for all chil-
dren, is striking evidence of the progress being
made toward the goal of a camp for every child.
It is true that many other cities have established
camps for their public school children. There are
a number of California cities with such camps
that have .operated for several years. Chicago,
Dearborn, Detroit, and other cities have estab-
lished camps. New York City probably needs

 

Department of Public Information, II’PA, New York

 

IVINTER DA Y CAJllPS 1N NEIL" YORK CITY

these camps more than any other com-
munity but its problems of administra-
tion are tremendous.

The day camp plan seemed to offer
the best solution and they have operat-
ed for two years with both a summer
and a winter schedule.

\Vinter camping immediately sug-

"Camp is no longer a substitute for primitive living;
it is increasingly a positive factor in the education
of children. Conditions are favorable for children
to learn rather than be taught, and since they can
base new learning only on some knowledge already
acquired, the environment offers that incentive."

597

gests the unusual, because camping in

the very nature of things is allied to

summer time activities; that is, the kind

of camping boys and girls talk about in the cities,
and all boys and girls do talk about camping in
this day and age. There is the lure of the un-
known woodlands with its hills and streams, and
the appeal of adventure in the very word. Camp-
ing is so thoroughly American, and tradition is so
close to us that it almost seems we are still a part
of it.

“Camping and education” is a combination of
words that has become familiar to most people in-
terested in the development of boys and girls of
America. If there is educational value in camp-
ing experience in the summer, unquestionably
there must be value in a year round plan. so the
Board of Education of New York City is experi-
menting on that theory.

' The children of New York City may seem fur-
ther removed from the frontier days than the
children of other cities, but they have one thing
in common with those children, and that is the
natural instinctive desire for the freedom of ex-
panses and instinctive delight in growing live
things. .

Cooperating Organizations

The summer day camp program proved success—
ful enough that an extension into a winter sched-
nle has been in process for two years. There are
three agencies cooperating in the plan. The Park
Department designated certain parks that would
offer as much wilderness atmosphere as possible;
the Board of Education sends the children from
schools near enough to these
parks so that they are able to
walk, except in one park where
the city’s subway line permits
free transportation. The \Vorks
Progress Administration fur-
nishes teachers and recreation
leaders. The teachers continue
the training in the subject mat-
ter of the classroom so that the
school schedules may not be
hampered, and the recreation
leaders carry on a camping
program.

In the fall of 1934 one of the
four camps used in the sUmmer
was selected as being best on
account of the subway trans-
portation facilities. In the fall
of 1935 three other parks were
added———-and those where chil-
dren came from schools near
enough that they could walk to
the camp sites.

For the winter schedule prin-
cipals of the schools were inter-

598 IVINTER DAY CAMPS 1N NEM/ YORK CITY

viewed. The result was that
many saw the plan had merit
and they sent classes about
every three weeks; that_ is,
classes were scheduled for
each day but rotated so that
the individual class made a
visit once every three weeks.

The cold weather calls for
a very stirring kind of ac—
tivities and in consequence

"We are coming to look upon the camp
more as a social institution than a
physical education opportunity. lt is,
primarily' a chance at communal living.
Its most important opportunity is a
training in friendshipI cooperation and
independence. . . . The really vital thing
in a camp is not its equipment but its
personnel and attitudeI and its ability to
make IbuddiesI out of the children. Any
camp will be enioyed more that does
this' it it is no more than a lean-
to in the woods."—Hem'y 8. Curtis.

fashioned from a tin can in-
geniously behandled with a
wooden stick.)

The camp craft period is
used to create such things as
toasters made of green twigs.
drums of short logs burned
hollow. reed pipes or flutes,
hammers of rocks fastened
to forked sticks and other
equally primitive articles that

the games played and all the
other activities, too, were of
a more strenuous selection for the whole day than

would be true for a summer program.

Creating Indian Villages

The winter camp schedule includes some very
romantic features. Its camp craft 15 carried
through by means of Indian villages and pioneer

stockade settlements. Here is an opportunity to
experience the living conditions our forefathers

knew in the early days of the country’s founding.
These villages have bark tepees, 10g lean-to shel-
ters, the well-known tepee type of shelter, bark
hogans, log stockades and shelters, slab shelters,
mud-chinked slab shelters and some weather shel-
ters made of twigs and branches, two native
American Indian leaders make these activities

quite real.
.There is a wide variety of fires set up for ob-

servation. The tires are of such kind as are used
for the various woods conditions and uses. There

are back log, reflector, hunter’s stone and hunter’s ,

log, dingle stick, cranepot holder Indian star, In—
dian stone stove and bean hole fires in these
demonstration yards. As time goes on new ones
are added as suggestions arise concerning new

L1 585 .

Because the children’s visits to the camps are
spaced rather widely apart, they do not bring food
to cook on the tires as they some times do in the
summer, but opportunities are found when groups
can participate in the ever fascinating joy of build-
ing a fire and using it. A daily activity report
turned in by one of the women recreation leaders
tells of one such occasion:

“The first group laid the fire, gathering bark
and twigs to light it. The second group shelled
the corn from the cob (pop corn) and lit the fires.
\Ve popped the corn and made syrup for it.” (She
fails to include the fact that the corn popper was

might be used in relation to
the primitive setting of the
villages described.

These villages are not free from molestation by
week-end visitors to the camp sites but that is not
a cause for worry or annoyance any longer as it
simply gives more children more opportunities to
build and share in the joy of construction. They
also get the feeling of consideration for others
and learn through first hand experience of a very
personal nature the unhappiness caused by van-
dals. Conservation is constantly stressed and oc—
casions arise often to prove its advisability. The
logs, bark, etc., used always come from the trees
that have died and been cut down.

Trail Making

Added to this are trail making with the use of
the compass and all the kinds of blazes, and some
signalling. The trails may not cover great dis-
tances but they do cover as much variety of ter—
rain as possible. In one camp a trail would be
sure to lead to the water’s edge where shells and
rocks covered with barnacles are found. The in-
stinct for collecting is given every chance for sat-
isfaction on such explorations, and their collec-
tions of whatever sort are given genuine respect.

Appreciation of the beauty of these woods
trails is one other definite aim. Leaders who are
themselves lovers of the woods with its plant and
animal life are sure to pass on some of this ap—
preciation by their own very real enthusiasm.
The process is one of absorbing from contact and
experience, a process of living with this particu—
lar environment. The social sciences of the school
room do become more vital through these experi-
ences. Geography and history and literature be-
come alive and a culture of the senses will result.

Some of the Activities

During the games period an effort is made to
encourage the ones with the greatest element of

«It

[VINTER DAY CAMPS IN NEW YORK CITY 599

11111 and that can be learned quickly and played
by any number of players at any time. Games
with elaborate rules are avoided as it is felt that
“a knowledge of a variety is important so that
whatever the situation these boys and girls will
not be at a loss for a happy solution for play time.
The timid child is the special case to recreation
leaders always and a typical case will illustrate.

This is taken from the daily report of one leader.

“One Chinese boy refused to play. no matter how he was
persuaded. He just held up his hand and shook his head
negatively. Of course the fact that he spoke no English
had something to do with it but it was interesting to see
the paternal attitude of some of the older boys, each tried
patiently even using ‘pidgin’ English but it was no use.
At last he did take my ex-
tended hand and walked with
me to watch another game
and I believe he was begin-
ning to forget himself and
enjoyed watching the game.
Perhaps if we had more time
we could have got him to
join a tree tag game or some
such. W'hen he comes to
camp again. I’ll lead him on
a little further.”

This letter, written in
camp by one of the girls
to a friend, carries some-
'thing of the spirit which
is being developed in the

campers.
"DEAR FRANCES,

we went to Pelham Bay
Park today. \Ve had a lot
of fun. At first we went for
a walk and we learned all
“about the birds. Then we
came back and made a project of the things we learned.
Then we had lunch. After lunch we had recreation
again.° \Ve had a teacher named Miss . . . . . . . . . . . .. She
was a lot of fun. \Ve had Indian games and we tortured
the captives by making them dance and sing. we made
one girl take a limb that had fallen from a tree and made

her fan us. Altogether I think Pelham Bay Park is a
stud! place.

Your friend,
EUNICE

Of course when there is snow every possible
traditional winter game is played. Hilarity reigns
on these days because the children love snow ball
throwing for accuracy, snow ball rolling contests,
building snow forts and snow men. They make
slides, and barrel staves often serve as toboggans

and they play Fox and Geese in the snow and
even do a little snow picture making.

At Christmas time the children selected a lovely
evergreen tree growing outside the camp building
for their Christmas tree. Each class as they came
to camp contributed to the decorations and these
were strings of cranberries, pop—corn and of bits
of suet, apples, pieces of cocoanuts and other nuts.
Not only was the tree very attractive to look at
but the birds loved it and to show their apprecia-
tion they ate every bit of the decorations. When
the holidays were over and the children returned
to camp they promptly started replacing the orna-
ments. The birds have become daily visitors and
are as much at home as are the children them-
selves. During lunch time it is no uncommon oc—

 

Department of Public Information, WPA, New York

There are real Indians to help the children
build fires and make shelters of many kinds

currence to see the birds at their lunch outside in
the snow covered “lunch tree.” What is more the
children added decorations to several trees.

Singing is the accompaniment to the folk danc-
ing or is a game in itself. The American folk
songs are added to the always loved folk songs of
other lands. Cowboy songs and the like have
special appeal because of relation to their pioneer
activities. Singing is always fun, however, and
fun is most important.

Here is one of the songs. It is in the form of a
riddle and there is great excitement guessing the
answer and it was a gleeful child who guessed
correctly the

(Continued on page 612)

93!.-
,t

From Market

‘

T
to

Art Center

The story of a deserted
building which has been
converted into a beehive
of activity and service.

nicipal Market Building of Birmingham,

Alabama, has been transformed from a va-
cant, cobwebbed structure into a center of much
activity in the held of creative art. Through the
efforts of Miss Agnes Coughlin of the Birming-
ham Park and Recreation Board, and with the
cooperation of federal agencies, windows which
once were deserted are artistically decorated and
facilities have been installed for the deve10pment
of various creative arts. While one of the ob-
jectives of the art center has been to give employ-
ment to VVPA workers in connection with the
federal rehabilitation program, its most important
purpose has been to encourage the artistic ambi-
tions of Birmingham people.

WITHIX the space of three months, the Mu~

The program carried on within the art center is
manifold. One department is devoted to scene
painting, another to scene building, and others to
poster painting. costume making, furniture mak-
ing and to the production of various other prop—
erties essential to plays on the playgrounds, com-
munity centers and pre—school play centers.

Scenery and other stage equipment constructed
by the art center are given to the Park and Rec—
reation Board to aid in the extensive program of

600

 

dramatics Sponsored by the city board in the vari—
ous community centers.

Art classes are offered twice a week.f1'ee to the
public, and a daily toy-making class is also avail-
able to the public. These classes are Sponsored by
the women’s department.

In a toy-making undertaking last year, more
than 2,000 toys were made in the Park Board's
toy shop and donated to the Community Christ—
mas Committee to be given to the city’s under-
privileged children. Christmas toys, Christmas
cards and other objects were made this year at the
art center and more toys than ever were distrib-
uted.

From the downtown center instructors go to
the various suburban communities to conduct .
classes once or twice a week. Centers visited '1
by these instructors include Harrison Park,|'.
Avondale, \Voodlawn, Ensley, Pratt City and 
North Birmingham. {

!.

City Commissioner Lewey Robinson whose de-‘J
partment has charge of public buildings gave the”
Park Board permission to use the building as ani
arts and crafts center, thus turning it into useful
channels after it had remained closed more thaniu
four years except for a period last year when it“

was used as a relief cannery.

  
   
   
   
   

By
MRS. LLOYD W. JOSSELYN

1-113 GARDEN CENTER INSTITUTE of Buffalo
Twas incorporated by the Board of Regents

of the University of the State of New York
to give instruction in gardening and allied sub-
jects. Gardening, whether it be a vocation or
an avocation, a sport or an art, has a very
vital place in human existence. \Vith the dis-
covery of agriculture came civilization, and
with civilization through the centuries has de-
veloped the art of gardening.
It is with gardening as an avocation we deal
principally at the Garden Center Institute, in-
structing the beginner, helping the experienced
gardener with those problems which continu-
ally arise in any undertaking, keeping abreast
of the times in regard to advances in horticul—
ture and the new things which science is con-
tinually presenting for our use.

Classes, lectures, radio talks, newspaper ar-
ticles, exhibits and shows are some of the
means by which we give instruction. To these
is added the personal attention to problems the
individual brings to us. The classes are taught
in some cases by trained experts, in others by
amateurs who through the personal experience
and study of many years have become profi—
cient in gardening and are glad to pass on to
others the knowledge which these years have
brought. In every community there are sure
to be gardeners who have made a speciality of
one certain flower until they have learned so
much concerning the cultivation of their spe-
cialty under the local conditions that their in—
formal talks are very valuable contributions to
the study of gardening. The Garden Center
lnstitutc has the cooperation of a number of
such enthusiasts and we proht greatly by the
lectures which they are willing to give to any
interested amateurs.

Our class for the beginning gardeners was
one of the most popular and worthwhile 'of the

The Garden Center Institute of Buttalo

There is an old Chinese proverb
which says—"Habits and cus-

toms differ. but all people have
the love of flowers in common.’'

 

groups we have had and there is no doubt that
those-beginning will want to continue to re-
ceive instruction and help, so that we plan to
develop this course. It seems advisable, also,
to repeat this course for others who have either
just discovered the center or else their own
interest in gardening, and are looking forward
to such a class this spring. A class in land-
scaping, in which each student will use his
own home grounds for his project, is to be one
of the new developments of our work along
these lines this season.

At least once a month and sometimes often-
er a formal lecture on some horticultural sub-
ject is held. These talks are given by trained
horticulturists and are of interest to the ad-
vanced gardener as well as to those who con—
sider themselves just beginners.

The study of botany and birds, while not
directly a branch of horticulture, has a very
delinite place in our work, for we know that
the gardener with even a very superficial
knowledge of these subjects is able to get
much more enjoyment out of gardening and
the hours spent out—of-doors, and profits by
the new helds which this study opens for him.
.~\ccordingly, we have weekly classes in both
these subjects which are becoming better at-
tended as they are being brought to the atten-
tion of an increasingly larger number of in-
terested persons.

Publicity

The matter of publicity has been a difficulty
for even though the field, we felt, has been
well covered, there are sure to be some inter-
ested persons who have learned too late of a
lecture or class that they would like to have

601

602 THE GARDEN CENTER INSTITUTE OF BUFFALO

attended. No doubt as the work grows we
shall be more successful in reaching the people
whom we seek to help. It has seemed to us
that those who find our service good and tell
others are really our best publicity agents. a

By means of weekly articles in the Buffalo
Et'mzfng News throughout the year. and a weekly
radio talk over W B E N during the eight
months which are most truly the gardening
time of year, we are able to reach many gar—
deners who because of distance and other reasons
are unable to come to the center. Some of the ma-
terial in these articles is suggested by the
questions which come to the center and, there-
fore, they represent the current gardening in-
tercsts.

Cooperation

Although the Garden Center Institute is an
incorporate institution with its own Board of
Directors, membership and dues, the latter in
the form of gifts rather than the payment of
any set amount, we are afhliated with the Fed-
erated Garden Clubs of New York State, Inc.
\\'e are constantly seeking to be of service to
these clubs and others who have not joined the
Federation. The meeting of the presidents of
all the garden clubs of this, the eighth district
of the Federation, is held at the center every
month. Thus the center is truly acting as a
centralization of the interests of the clubs and
as a means of exchange of ideas which is a
great help in the ever present question of suit-
able programs. Our work in this case is sim-
plified in that the director of the district is also
tl*e director of the center, and as the represen-
tative of the Federation comes in contact with
the various clubs of this
area. That our work is not
wholly with garden club
members, federated or un-
federated, should not he
lost sight of, for we are in-
terested chiefly in spread-
ing abroad the gospel of
gardening.

\Ve expect to make the
flower show held last sum-
mer at the center a yearly
affair. Previously this had
been held in another build-
ing although it was staged
and directed by the garden

"High on the list of activities which may
be pursued as private hobbies but which
shower their benefits on the public is the
ancient art of gardening. Lil<e Portia's
famous quality of mercy. it blesses both
gardener and beholder. A love of gar-
dens and a bit of ground upon which to
lavish that affection are a fortunate
equipment. For not only is gardening full
of rewards and surprises for the gar-
denerl but. since a community is only a
number of plots. each under the control
of a different individual. the collective
result of numerous gardens is a beauti-
tul community and ultimately a beautiful

country." — Earnest Elmo Cafkr'ns in
The Lost Art of Pfay, Atlantic Monthly.

clubs of the District, as was the one held this
year. A flower show is always an excellent
means of promoting and stimulating interest
in gardening, and the people who attend do so
because of their love for flowers and their de—
sire to learn more concerning varieties and
methods of cultivation.

Through the center a new use of leisure is
introduced to many and an outlet for energy is
offered which is both healthful and useful.
\Vhile we deal primarily with the flower gar—
den, the questions we receive often carry us
into the wider field of agriculture, and we al-
ways give what help we can as well as suggest
channels where more extensive aid may he
found.

.-\n economic aspect to the programs at the
center is introduced by the fact that the land-
scaping of the grounds around the house adds
to the commercial value of the property. \Yhile
we do not stress this fact in our teaching, it
becomes apparent to the house owner as the
work on the home grounds progresses.

Housing the Institute

The rooms in which the Garden Center In-
stitute is located are in the Club House in
Grover Cleveland Park. These quarters are
provided for our use by the Park Department
of the City of Buffalo through the cooperation
of the Hon. Frank A. Coon. Commissioner.
For any work of this kind a place from which
to operate is the first requisite.

Although a garden center may spread its ac-
tivities over a good sized community, it must
have headquarters as a base of operations.
Here should be assembled the tools with which

the work is done: books

and magazines on garden—
‘ ing, and catalogues of the
various seedsmen and nur—
serymen both in this coun—
try and abroad. These cat-
alogues are valuable addi-
tions to the equipment and
they should be kept from
year to year because of
their value as sources of
information concerning the
dates of introduction of the
various varieties of plants.
Duplicate catalogs may he
(Continued on page 613)

 

.‘a-

uni-2‘

A Sport for Every Girl

Girls know what they want today. It
is the community's responsibility to
help them get it by aiding them to
secure facilities and plan activities

__-_ .——____- _ - _

.\DMIN’1‘0N. tennis, swimming,
horseback riding, deck ten—
nis, shuffleboard. golf, volley ball—how many

of these sports do you know well enough to enjoy
in your leisure time? In this modern world there
is no limit to the variety of recreational sports that
a girl or woman can enjoy. There used to be re-
strictions, such as time and money, which meant
that some of us could not possibly enter into cer—
tain activities. Today public recreation facilities
are removing or reducing the expense, and shorter
working hours give us more time. \V'ith this va-
riety of choice, it must be up to the individual to
learn the games, to develop the skills, for truly
“there is a sport for every girl."

In addressing a group of citizens who are in-
terested in “ letter Homes in America" I know I
am speaking to those interested in better com-
munities. If the test of a community life'is how
it spends its leisure time, do you know what hap-
pens in your city? Men and boys need good sports
and these ate more often provided for them. Let
us consider now only girls and women. “7 hat do
the young women want to do today? In your
to“ n what facilities are open to girls? How are
programs planned and directed; are they in the
hands of well trained leaders? As a responsible
Citizen 1n your community,
where and what would you
want your girls to play?

Men will often answer this
question with—“Oh, let’s or—
ganize a basketball team for
our girls too.” Yes, because
boys are keenly interested in
highly organized team sports
like baseball. football and bas-
ketball, do you think girls

always are? Barnard College

By EDITH M. GATES

We present extracts from a radio ad-
dress from Little House of America.
delivered over the Columbia network
on March 5+h by Edith M. Gates. them-
Director of Health Education. Na-
tional Board, Y.W.C.A.. and Chair-
man of the Executive Committee.
Women's Division. N.A.A.F. Further
information regarding the activities
of the Division may be secured from
the Women's Division. N.A.A.F.. 303
West 42nd Street. New York City.

asked its students what sports
they wanted and the first two on

their list were not these—they were swimming

and tennis. The National Y.\V.C.A. made a study

of what business girls do or want to do in their
leisure time and the first sports they mentioned
were swimming, hiking and tennis. In the high
school programs reported to us recently from
Reno, Nevada, for instance, or Aberdeen, South
Dakota, we 6nd ten sports offered in the year's
program and in both lists are horseshoe pitching
and bicycling—certainly not team sports. Girls
are intcrested today in the more informal “indi—
vidual and dual sports,” the games one can play
any time alone or with a friend. Or they like
what we call “group sports” in contrast to “team
sports.” those sports like swimming and hiking
where large numbers participate together in a
sociable group.

An athletic program needs to be made attractive
to girls. Girls themselves do not take the initia-
tive as boys do; they do not play just anywhere
in the \acant lots without leadership. It was
shown in the study of business girls made by the
Y.\\".C.A. that 77 per cent wanted to swim, but
only 33 per cent actually did; 70 per cent wanted
to hike, but only 20 per cent actually did. These
girls are not going to get what
they want and need unless
someone takes steps to secrlre
facilities and plan activities for

For twelve years the W'om—
en's Division of the National
Amateur Athletic Federation
has been working to establish
certain fundamental conditions
under which girls’ athletics will

(Continued on. page 613)

603,

The Westchester Little Opera Company

An experiment in devel0ping a uPeople's
Opera" which will give young people the
Opportunity often so difficult to secure

“Westchester Little Opera

Company of “White Plains,
New York, a movement has
been initiated which may well
have nation-wide significance.
The company was organized
in a very modest manner, on
June I st, 1934, by Eugene
Haesner, of \Vhite Plains,
New York, a well known
teacher of singing, primarily
to furnish an opportunity for
young singers to acquire experience and training
in operatic work.

The first season was opened with a double bill,
a presentation of “Cavalleria Rusticana” and “The
Secret of Susanne.” This was followed by
“Shanewis,” then “Martha” and the season closed
with “Traviata.” Immediately after the season
was closed rehearsals for the next season began.
“Faust” was chosen to open the season and two
performances were given, October 5 and 8, 1935.
“Carmen” was given on November 29 and 30, f ol-
lowed by “La Traviata,” “The Barber of Seville"
and a double bill, “Cavalleria Rusticana” and “I
Pagliacci.”

The faithfulness and loyalty of the chorus may
be judged by the fact that although the rehearsals
were carried on through the entire summer, the
attendance was never less than 85 per cent of the
full strength of the company, which numbers 82
including principals.

During the first season the performances, which
were given in the \N'estchester County Center, ac—
companiments were provided on a piano and the
organ at the Center. This year fourteen strings
were added to the organ and piano, the strings
consisting of six first violins, four second violins,
two violas and two ’cellos. The scenery was built
and painted by some of the principals and mem-
bers of the chorus.

60:4

IN THE organization of the

 

The complaint is very often made
that singers who want to follow an
operatic career are compelled to
go to Europe for their training and
experience. The Little Opera Com-
pany of Westchester County, New
York, hopes to do something to
meet this situation through the
experiment it is c a r r yin g on.

All the operas are sung in
English, the idea being to
make it truly A m e rica n
Opera. The principals are
chosen on a basis of merit.
Any member of the company
may aspire to singing a prin-
cipal réle, and if in the judg—
ment of the musical director
he or she is competent, the
coveted prize is awarded.

The “Westchester County
Recreation Commission fos-
tered the development of the Little Opera Com-
pany during its first season and continues a co-
operative relationship to the extent of furnishing
quarters for rehearsal facilities and clerical
work, etc.

Although the company has no direct Flnancial
backing and charges the very moderate admission
fee of 50 and 75 cents, the company is self-sup-
porting. This entails a great deal of self sacrifice
and work on the part of the members of the com-
pany. The costumes are for the most part made
by members of the company, even the soldiers’
uniforms being made and painted with gilt paint
to resemble armor. There are no fees or dues but
the members of the company buy their own
music.

The staff of the company consists of: Eugene
Haesner, Conductor and General Director; John
Connet, Assistant Conductor; George Kruger,
Assistant Director of Orchestra; Miss Elizabeth
Barlow, Pianist and Coach; \V. Raymond Ran-

dall, Organist; Miss Matilda Mark, Ballet Mis—
tress. and A. D. Shaw, Stage Manager.

The members of the chorus come from all parts
of W estchester County and some even from Long
Island. Among them are business men and house-

 

I
wives, salesmen and saleswomen, secretaries and A

college students. It is truly a “PeOple’s Opera.”

 

\X/ORLD AT PLAY

 

AN increasing num-
ber of players are en-
joying tennis in Cin-
cinnati, Ohio. Twen-
ty-eight hard surfaced courts with wire tennis
nets are being kept open ready for play at all
times free of charge. At Price Hill, where there
are more municipal tennis courts and more
players proportionately to the population than
in any other section of the city, a drive is being
made to collect usable rackets being discarded
by more expert players with the object of put-
ting them in condition and having them avail-
able next year for the free use of beginners
among the junior players. This will make it
possible for boys and girls who cannot afford
to purchase rackets to play the game. It is
hoped to have a sufhcient supply of cast-off
rackets to take care of the 120 municipal courts
which will be in play next year.

Cincinnati Citizens
Take to Tennis

 

THE drama pro-
gram promoted by
the Department of
Public Recreation,
Board of Education, in Sheboygan, \Visc0nsin,
is unusually extensive. Seven hundred people
are enrolled as members paying one dollar a
year fee. A recent performance of “The Late
Christopher Bean” was witnessed by 1,500
people. In addition to the regular perform-
ances, there are children’s programs, play dis-
cussion groups held every week, and once a
month plays are presented and discussed by
various groups. Each Tuesday evening a radio
sketch is given, a different group being in
charge each month. In one of the schools there
are a large workroom and storeroom for the
drama materials, a manual training room with
tools and a drama scenery roomoin which mem—
bers of the group make their own drops, win—

dows, doors, as well as the piping for the
hangings.

Drama Popular
in Sheboygan

 

THE Playground
and Recreation As-—
sociation of Wyo—
ming Valley, VVilkesL
Barre, Pennsylvania, is sponsoring the Wo—e
man’s Municipal Chorus, a self-supporting"
group made up of 65 members with fairly well
trained voices who regard their membership
in the organization as a means of further train—
ing. A well trained and experienced director
is in charge. On December 29th the chorus
presented a Christmas conCert before 1,500’
people.

Municipal Chorus
for Women

FROM June 23 to
November 19, 1935,
Irvington, New Jere
sey, celebrated its
one hundredth anniversary. There were civic
programs, parades, o p e r e t t a s, nationality
nights, a flower show, and :1 Columbus Day
program. A number of weeks were celebrated’
during the period, including retail sales week,
education week, and municipal progress week.
The celebration closed with a reception. Philip
LeBoutillier, Superintendent of Recreation,
served as chairman of the executive committee
and the Department of Public Recreation had
a large part in planning and carrying out the
details of the celebration. The estimated at—

tendance during the five month period was
80,740 people.

Irvin gton’s
Centennial

THE City Council
of Oakland, Califor—
nia, has donated
$15,000 to secure
land for a splendid East Oakland recreation
area. The property to be secured, consisting
of an old nursery with thousands of shrubs and
plants, covers eighteen acres, six and a half
acres of which were purchased outright and
six more leased; an option is held on the bal—

ance. A \VPA allotment of $60,000 for the de-
velopment of the project has been approved.

603

A Recently Created
Recreation Area

606

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

DIAMOND
PITCHING

HORSESHOES

A few courts of horseshoes will add
much to your playground. Write for
free instruction booklets on organiz-
ing horseshoe clubs and official rules.
DIAMOND Official shoes and ac-
cessories are the choice of profes-
sionals and amateurs alike. Preferred
because of their excellent construc-
fion—fheir high qualify materials.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
4610 GRAND AVE. DULUTH. MINN.

 

Los Angeles Launches City-Wide Delin-
quency Prevention Program—In a city-wide
plan to reduce juvenile delinquency by absorb-
ing thousands of young people in constructive
recreational activities, a new cooperative pro-
gram affecting all sections of Los Angeles,
California, is to be launched by the Crime
Prevention Bureau of the Police Department,
the County Probation Department and the
City Play-ground and Recreation Department.
lioys who come to the attention of the police
as requiring special treatment or special atten-
tion will be referred to held workers who will
investigate conditions, make contacts with the
boys’ parents and school principals and, wher-
ever possible, will introduce the boys to the
recreational activities of m 11 n i c i p a 1 play-
grounds and other recreation centers. To carry
out the program thirty police officers, two from
each of the fifteen police divisions of the city,
have been specially trained. They will be aided
by thirty held men assigned by \VPA to make
contacts with the boys and their parents and
to invite them to take part in recreational ac—
tivities. Additional \VPA workers assigned to

WORLD AT PLAY

the playgrounds will assist the regular direc-
tors in placing the youths in activities.

Playground Attendance in Reading, Pa.—
This year’s attendance at Reading’s twenty-
hve playgrounds exceeded that of last year’s
twenty-six grounds by 138,768. The traveling
theater and motion pictures operated with fed-
eral leadership had an attendance of 16,300 and
5,950 respectively. Band concerts on twelve
playgrounds reached 21,000 people.

Union, South Carolina, to Have a Recreation
Area—The city of Union, South Carolina, has
been presented with 78 acres for a general rec-
reation ground. A project amounting to
$52,000, one of the largest in the State, has
been seecured from \VI‘A, and 250 men are
now busy building a lake, a golf course, tennis
courts, a club house and other facilities. The
lake will be stocked with native fish and a
beach will be built for swimming. A three
room log cabin will be built for a caretaker.
There is a rock quarry on the land which will
provide the rocks for the club house. The
land is heavily wooded and from the trees,
which are being removed where the golf
course is to be, lumber is being sawed. It is
hoped that the project will be completed by
July 1st. The park is to be known as Foster
Park in honor of the parents of the citizens
who gave the land.

Millions Use National Forests for Recrea-
tion—More persons than ever before in the
history of the Forest Service made use of the
national forest recreational opportunities in
1935, according to the Forest Service of the
United States Department of Agriculture. The
estimate of visitors, including transient motor-
ists who availed themselves of forest high-
ways, reached the peak figure of 58,548,000.
Located as they are, in almost three-fourths of
all the states and embracing a total land area
of more than 163,000,000 acres, the national
forests are within convenient motor travel
range of the greater part of the population.
Recreation is given equal status with, and in
certain areas precedence over, other forest re-
sources in national forest administration. In
all activities conducted recreational use has
been dihnitely organized. Many new camp
grounds were created and existing facilities

GULF SAN! - SOIL - SET
all/2.1 ayy‘wund plat prod/emf!

.4-

.I'l‘ .né -
. - - h- _
.- ' n—

F‘-
- fl
frag—2:..er

Here is a public school playground which was treated with GULF SANI-SOlL-SET 6 months before the The .dust problem was solved at this .
photograph was taken. It has been used daily by school as well as neighborhood children. Dubllc Qlayground 1}! the heart of a
major Clty bysgtiilsggg GULF SANI-

 

New Germicz'dezl Compound is Easily
Applied, Inexpensive and Long Lasting

Recreation oHicials now have a praCtical solution to the playground
dust problem!

A new produCt—Gulf SANI-SOIL-SET—has been developed by
the Gulf Refining Company for dust allaying purposes on earth "
surface playgrounds. This material can be applied at low cost, will
not harm or stain clothes or shoes and under usual conditions of
weather and soil, one application per season will suHice.

Let a Gulf representative tell you more about GULF SANI-

 

SOIL-SET.
GULF REFINING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA. This boom $115 I“? m, 0. gm
Damn Sales (wees.- Boston New York Philadelphia Atlanta SAqéaSOEIB-SEl‘andususe. Itwnllbte
New Orleans Houston Pittsburgh Louisville Toledo gale coglénoiust gist),:£ 3;?)‘Ligggelifge:
.1 .-
rGULF REFINING COMPANY
Makers Off I 3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh. Pa.

I S .l‘glealsg sefnd tile withorlglobligatipinma copy of the booklet “Gulf
T/mt Good Gulf Gasoline ' w I 3"" °" 3' °’ “mg “gm” 5'
. | Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
and Gulfhzbe Motor Oil '

l Company. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

I Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

608 WORLD AT PLOAY

augmented and improved. The total number
of improved camp grounds in the national for-
ests now exceeds 3,000.

School in India Produces Play on Recrea-
tion—‘Word has been received from N'. Krish-
na Rao, headmaster, Board High School, Bha—
drachalam, South India, that a play called
“Recreation” which he wrote was produced
very successfully by children of the school
during the local Health \Veek observance. The
school is a subscriber to RECREATION.

Agricultural Sports —-——— The Montreal Star
points out that certain distinctive sports in the
farming regions of Canada attract quite as
much public interest as prominent events in
the field of professional and intercollegiate
sports that are supported chiefly by urban en-
thusiasts. The Star cites as an example the
fact that in Caledonia, Ontario, 30,000 people
turned out to watch 172'contestants carry on
a plowing match. The event was staged with—
out a cent of expenditure by the sponsors for
bleachers 0r ballyhoo. This figure of attend—
ance compares very favorably with that for
many an outstanding American football game
and is higher than for the average baseball
game.

There is -no lack of similar rural events in
the United States. Plow matches are by no
means rare and championship contests in corn
husking are fairly common, while many other
competitions distinctive of farm life might be
mentioned.

The American Guide—The chief undertak—
ing before the \Vriters’ Division, Professional
and Service Projects Section of the W'PA, is
the preparation of an encyclopedic publication
entitled “The American Guide,” which will be
published in live volumes of 600 pages each.
All sections of the country will be represented
and many subjects will be studied, such as
flora and fauna, histOrical settings and back—
grounds, parks——-national, city and state ar—
cheological remains, libraries and museums,
folk customs and folk lore, products, natural
resources and other subjects. In addition to
preparing articles for “The American Guide,”
original reports, maps and illustrations will be
left with each city, county and state for use
in preparing local guides. Such local guides
will supply a need that has not been ade—

 

quately met by existing compilations even in
the older communities where much has been
done to interest outsiders in scenic wonders
and historic sights. It is estimated that about
4,500 writers will be taken from relief rolls
through this project.

Free Tennis Instruction in Wilkes-Barre—
Last summer free tennis instruction was of—
fered from 9:00 A. M. until 1:00 P. M. on all
public courts maintained by the Playground
and Recreation Association of Wyoming Val-
Iey, ‘Wilkes—Barre, Pennsylvania. FERA work—
ers were the instructors. The Playground As-
sociation furnished four rackets and some balls
but on the whole the children provided their
own equipment. Each child was allowed not
more than four lessons and only one hour on
the court each morning.

A. P. E. A. to Hold Forty-First Annual
Convention—The American Physical Educa—
tion Association will hold its forty—first annual
convention in St. Louis Missouri, April 15th to
18th, in conjunction with the Central District Phy—
sical Education Association. The convention theme
will be “Physical Education and the Enrichment
of Living," and there will be sections on the fol-
lowing subjects: Camping, women’s athletics,
research and teacher-training, recreation, dance,
therapeutics. administrative directors, men's ath—
letics, health education, public schools, and college
men’s physical education.

Further information may be secured from
Philip  Hickey, Secretary, Board of Education,
St. Louis, Missouri. .

Provincial Recreation Centers—In Novem—
ber 1934, the Minister of Education for British
Columbia, Canada, established the Department of
Recreational and Rhysical Education for the pur-
pose of providing free opportunities along these
lines to young adults. Twenty of these Provincial
recreation centers have now been established in
ten different cities and districts and the member—
ship, which is growing rapidly, totals 3,345. The
program consists of gymnastics, folk, tap and .
natural dancing, volley ball. paddle tennis, bas—
ketball, handball and similar games, fencing. I
weight lifting, boxing, wrestling, swimming and
diving, pyramid building, tumbling and other ac—_
tivities. A staff of twenty—seven workers is in
charge. Many requests for new centers have been
received and the movement will be extended.

4:;-

 

CHORAL MUSIC FOR EASTER 609

A New Equipment Company — The Hill-
Standard Company, one of the oldest manu-
facturers in the field of equipment for play-
grounds, beaches and pools, has been purchased

_ and reorganized under the name of General Play-

ground Equipment, Inc., with headquarters at
Kokomo, Indiana. The new company has taken
over all the products and will continue to manu-
facture them at the large plant formerly main-
tained in Kokomo by Hill—Standard.

A Wild Life Conference — Approximately
2,000 leaders in the movement to conserve wild
life met at W'ashington February 3-7 in a confer-
ence called by President Roosevelt. As a result of
the conference the General \Vild Life Federation
has been created with the following objectives:
“To organize all agencies, societies, clubs and in-
dividuals which are or should be interested in the
restoration and conservation of wild life into a
permanent unified agency for the purpose of
securing adequate recognition of the needs and
values of wild life resources; to develop a com-
prehensive program for the advancement, restora-
tion and conservation of wild life; to present to
the public such pertinent facts, discoveries and in-
formation as may contribute to the solution of the
problems involved in the restoration and conser-
vation of wild life.” J. N. Darling, well known
cartoonist, who until recently served as chief of
the federal government's biological survey. was
made president of the organization.

New Parks in Sumter—Sumter, South Caro-
lina, is to have two new parks. Last spring the
city' expended $5,000 for 50 acres of land in a
beautiful woodland tract which will be used ex-
clusively for recreational activities for the indus-
trial population of the city. The land for the sec-
-ond park was donated. Both are being developed
“with \VPA assistance.

Ways to Musical Good Fortune

(Continued from page 583)

them have no conception of the best possibili-
ties in the recreation field when it is well-ad-
ministered. Let there be an “institute” for
discussion and demonstration of the possibili-
ties, and let such good opportunities for lead-
ership as we have described be well arranged.
There may be in the community excellent tal-
cent for leadership hidden away even from its

Choral Music for Easter

For Unison, Singing

Easter C arois—‘available from National Recreation Associ-
ation at 80¢ per 100. Music for these may be found in
“Hymns and Carols”_ published by C. C. Birchard and
Co., 221 Columbus Avenue, Boston, Mass., 15¢.

Selected Hymns—$2.10 per 100 from National Recreation
Association. .

The H. W. Gray Co., 159 East 48th St., New York City,
issue 10¢ pamphlets of Easter carols containing words
and music.‘

Alleluia—in “Ten Folk Songs and Ballads,” E. C. Schir-
mer Music Co.,°221 Columbus Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
12¢.

For Mixed Chorus

Bach—O Saviour Sweet—H. \V. Gray and Co., N. Y.

Bach—Jesu, Priceless Treasure—Novello (H. W. Gray
and Co., N. Y.)

Bach—Lord, Our Redeemer (St. John Passion), E. C.
Schirmer Music Co., Boston

Bach—Up, Up! My Heart with Gladness, E. C. Schir-
mer Music Co., Boston

Bach—Awake, Thou \Vintry Earth, E. C. Schirmer
Music Co., Boston

Cain—Fairest Lord Jesus, Hall and McCreary, Chicago, Ill.

Dickinson—Now Christ Is Risen, H.W. Gray and Co., N .Y.

Dickinson—Rejoice, the Lord, H. W. Gray and Co., N. Y.

Dickinson—In Joseph’s Lovely Garden, H. W. Gray and
Co., N. Y. ,

Franck—O Praise Ye the Lord (Psalm 150), C. C.
Birchard and Co., Boston

Gibbons—Hosanna to the Son of David, Oxford Uni-
versity Press (Carl Fischer, N. Y.)

Gretchaninoff—Cherubic Hymn, H.W.‘Gray and Co., N.Y.

Handel—Hallelujah, Amen (Judas Maccabaeus), E. C.
Schirmer Music Co., Boston

Ippolitof-Ivanof—Bless the Lord, Boston Music Co.,
Boston, Mass. -

Lutkin—O Brightness, H. W. Gray, N. Y.

Palestrina—Tenebrae Factae Sunt—G. Schirmer, 3 East
43rd St., New York

Palestrina—O Bone Jesu, Oliver Ditson Co., Boston

Parry—There is an Old Belief, H. F. W. Deane Co.,
% C. C. Birchard and Co., Boston

Rachmaninoff—Glory Be to God (short form), H. W.
Gray and Co., N. Y.

Rachmaninoff—Laud Ye the Name of the Lord, H. \V.
Gray and Co., N. Y. '

Smolensky—Easter Verses, J. Fischer 8: Bros., 119 West
40th St., N. Y.

Tschrai1§0\vsky—Cherubim Song No. 3, G. Schirmer, Inc.,

Tschaikowsky—How Blest Are ‘They, E. C. Schirmer
Music Co., Boston

Vittoria—O Magnum Mysterium, G. Schirmer, Inc., N. Y.

Vulpius—An Easter Hallelujah, H. W. Gray and Co., N. Y.

-—————-—-——Victory—Alsatian—Gaul, Oliver Ditson Co.,

Boston

The Lord Is Arisen—Bohemian, H. W. Gray
and Co., N. Y.

Now Christ Is Risen—English, H. W. Gray
and Co., N. Y.

At Dawn When They Sought—16th century,
Boston Music Co., Boston

Rejoice, Ye Sons of Men—16th century, G.
Schirmer, Inc., N. Y.

Now Christ the Lord is Risen— 16th century,
G. Schirmer, Inc., N. Y.

Four Ancient Easter Chorales, Boston Music
Co., Boston, Mass. '

This Glad Easter Day—Norwegian—Dickinson,
H. W. Gray and Co., N. Y.

\V hen the Dawn Was IBreaking—Polish—Dick-
inson, H. W. Gray and Co., N. Y.

 

010 ll»’.~ll’S TO MUSICAL GOOD FORTUNE

possessors because of lack of good opportunity
to use it. Let us make the community fit for
good leadership.

Organization

A capable community music director, super-
visor or adviser is needed, and also a devoted
music committee representative of the schools,
churches, homes (through parent-teacher asso-
ciations or women’s clubs), recreation centers,
settlements, Y’s and like organizations, and of
the leading civic-minded citizens. Professional
musicians may be left out of the committee with
the idea that its function is to be of service to all
of them in their civic interests and that it will
gladly receive suggestions from them. The
music director may well be connected with the
public recreation department or commission,
through whose staff he could be kept closely
in touch with outstanding leisure-time needs
and possibilities in the c o m m u nit y, and
through whose office force he could maintain
well the business side of his work. A Music
I,eaders’ Club of all those who are leading in
such activities as have been suggested could

through discussions and sociability k e e p
strongly and effectively before their minds the
growing good fortune awaiting their people,
and ways leading to it.

Croquet at Eighty-two
(Continued from page 590)

placed. the play shall cease, and any point or points made
for the offending player or his partner, by such foul
stroke shall not be allowed. If a point is thus made for
the offending player's opponent, such point shall he
allowed.

(b) The umpire shall decide as to the fairness of a
stroke after it is made.

List of Foul Plays

Rule 33: The following are foul plays, subject to the
penalty:

(a) Hitting a dead ball by direct stroke.

(b) Taking. play from a ball that has not been counted
upon.

(1') Hitting or causing a ball to hit any ball that was
in motion or off the court when the stroke was made. by
either a direct shot or a split shot.

(d) Playing or taking play from a ball when off the
court, except when the playing ball has been placed in
contact with a ball on the court for the purpose of tak-
ing play therefrom.

(a) Taking play from a hall and failing to move it.

ga£ettl Teaching Maternal 50% the Recteation Ditectct

The Education Division of the National Safety Council publishes a variety of
material designed to aid in the teaching of safety on the playground or in
the school. We recommend the following:

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE—A monthly publication con-

taining colored posters, graded lesson outlines, short plays
and stories, informational articles, etc.

Price $1.00 a year

THE IUNIOR SAFETY COUNCIL—A handbook of safety activi-

ties containing practical program suggestions, patrol organi—

zation and references.

K

Price $.35

PLAYGROUND PACKET—A collection of safety material for the
playground director. Contains 10 colored safety posters, a
safety play, crayon lessons and instructions for the safe use

of playground equipment.

Price $1.00

Education Division, National Safety Council

' ONE PARK AVENUE

NEW YORK, N. Y.

T“

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLE'I'S 611

(1‘) When, in delix'ering a stroke, the player’s mallet
makes a second contact with the playing ball, or gives it
a second impetus.

(Q) When in delivering a stroke, the player pulls,
pushes or jams the playing ball with the mallet.

(ll) \Vhen by a downward stroke, the player purposely
causes his ball to jump over an intervening object.

(2') \Vhen, in delivering a stroke, the player’s mallet
hits an arch, and thus causes a ‘ball to move which was
close to, or in contact’ with the arch.

(j) Playing a ball in the wrong sequence.

Nora: The next ball in right sequence follows. For
example, if white or blue is played after black, it is a
foul, because red was the right ball in sequence. There-
fore, the next ball to play is white. The Opponent shall
have the option of replacing any balls moved by a play
in wrong sequence.

(la) \Vhen a player touches, moves, causes to be moved,
stops or diverts the movement of any ball, except as pro—
vided in these rules. For example, a player may put a
ball on the court, may place his ball for taking a split
shot, may tap a ball to remove the sand, etc., but he must
not pick up the wrong ball’ after making a bit; he must
not move any ball with his mallet, person or clothing; he
must not st0p any ball, exccpt as provided in rule 11, etc.

(I) Violation of a rule constitutes a foul.

(m) Moving or carrying a ball that rests over the
boundary, except to bring it directly onto the court, as
provided in these rules.

(it) No player shall tap an arch wherein, or near which
a ball rests. Neither shall a player lean upon or touch
an arch wherein, or near which a ball rests. As a penalty
the opponent may claim forfeiture of the turn. All tests
(measurements) are by umpire or by opponent’s consent.

(0) Should a player stand or sit in line of an oppon-
ent's shot, after being asked to move away, the playing
ball may repeat the shot, once or more, so long as the
opponent continues to stand or sit in line.

(1)) Hitting a ball with anything but the face (either
end) of the mallet.

(q) A player shall not touch or move any ball during
opponcnt’s turn of play. The penalty shall be that the
opponent may replace any ball so moved.

(r) It is not a foul if a player, preparatory to playing
a hall not in close position, accidentally touches the ball

with his mallet before he makes the stroke, but the ball
must be replaced.

Recreation and the Transient Program
(Continued from page 592)

the transient's life. The concentration of transient
care in units located in rural areas has not lessen-
ed the handicaps which are met in the attempt to
deveIOp recreation activities, but this added dif-
ficulty has been more than compensated for by the
fact that the transient units have been continued

under the \Vorks Progress Administration, thus .

eliminating a fear for the future. As the possi-

  
 

  

Mogazines and Pamphlets

l Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

    
 

MAGAZINES

Leisure, January 1936
The Comradeship of the Trail, by Howard S. Cady
Fun \Vith a Lathe, by Marie Cooney and Naomi

Irvin
Curling—The Quaintest of Sports, by David
Goodman I

A Place to Play—at Home, by W'alter B. Grover

The Country Dance Goes to the City, by H. S. Card

The Paradoxes of Modern Leisure, An editorial by
Eduard C. Lindeman

Have a Miniature Glass Garden, by Robert M. Hyatt

Our Own Little Theater, by Karen Monrad Jones

A Progressive Game Party, by Harry D. Edgren

The Camping Magazine, January 1936 . .
Uncle Sam’s New Camping Grounds, by Fanning

Hearon
The History of Organized Camping, by H. \V.

Gibson
Views Afoot, by Henry S. Curtis, Ph. D.

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,

January 1936
Folk Dance in the Rhythms Pr0gram, by Eleonore

Groii Adams
Marching and Pyramids,.by M. A. Clevett
A Gymnasium Games Project, by Aldona R.

Narmonta
A Method for Drawing Home-and-Home Schedules

for Round Robin Tournaments, by John A. Tor-
ney, Jr. and Leonard W. Stevens

Baseball for Playgrounds, Sandlots and Parks for
Boys of All Agcs, by Edward Higginbotham

Education, January 1936 o .
Physical Education’s Greatest Need, by \Vllliam R.

LaPorte
Physical Education in Elementary Schools, by Helen

M. Cooper _ .
Sensible Motives for Physical Fitness, by Robert E.

Laveaga ? .
Physical Education to Meet the 1\eeds of the Indi—

vidual, by James A. Wylie

Walking, January 1936 o
“What to See" walks in Winter, by Montgomery

Mulford .
Selecting Skis and Equipment, by Jules Andre

Out \Vith the Walking Clubs

Parents’ Magazine. February 1936 .
Parties for Children of 2 to 12, by Margaret Mochrie
Our Best Cellar Theater, by Regina W'oody
Family Fun, by Elizabeth King

Hygeia—The Health Magazine, February 1936 o .
Toys and Games That Teach and Train, by Bilhc

Teel Mettel

PAMPH LETS

Thirteenth Annual Report, City Recreation Department,
Pontiac, Michigan, 1935

French’s Successful Plays (Espccially Recommended for
High Schools. Churches and Other Amateur Groups).
Samual French, 25 West 45th Street, New York

Eighth Annual Report of the Park Association of New
York City
(Continued on page 612)

(110 IVAYS TO MUSICAL GOO!) FORTUNE

possessors because of lack of good Opportunity
to use it. Let us make the community fit for

good leadership.

Organization

A capable community music director, super-
visor or adviser is needed, and also a devoted
music committee representative of the schools,
churches, homes (through parent-teacher asso-
ciations or women’s clubs), recreation centers,
settlements, Y’s and like organizations, and of
the leading civic—minded citizens. Professional
musicians may be left out of the committee with
the idea that its function is to be of service to all
of them in their civic interests and that it will
gladly receive suggestions from them. The
music director may well be connected with the
public recreation department or commission,
through whose staff he could be kept closely
in touch with outstanding leisure—time needs
and possibilities in the c o m m u n i t y, and
through whose office force he could maintain
well the business side of his work. A Music
Leaders’ Club of all those who are leading in
such activities as have been suggested could

@26er Teaching material 60’: the Recteafion Ditectot

The Education Division of the National Safety Council publishes a variety of
material designed to aid in the teaching of safety on the playground or in
the school. We recommend the following:

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE—A monthly publication con-

taining colored posters, graded lesson outlines, short plays
and stories. informational articles, etc.

   

through discussions and sociability k e e1
strongly and effectively before their minds th
growing good fortune awaiting their people,
and ways leading to it.

Croquet at Eighty-two
(Continued from page 590)

placed. the play shall cease, and any point or points made
for the offending player or his partner, by such foul
stroke shall not he allowed. If a point is thus made for
the offending player’s opponent, such point shall be
allowed.

(b) The umpire shall decide as to the fairness of a
stroke after it is made.

List of Foul Plays

Rule 33: The following are foul plays, subject to the
penalty:

((1) Hitting a dead ball by direct stroke.

(.5) Taking play from a ball that has not been counted
upon.

(r) Hitting or causing a ball to hit any ball that was
in motion or off the court when the stroke was made. by
either a direct shot or a split shot.

((1') Playing or taking play from a ball when off the
court, except when the playing ball has been placed in
contact with a ball on the court for the purpose of tak—
ing play therefrom.

(0) Taking play from a ball and failing to move it.

Price $1.00 a year

THE JUNIOR SAFETY COUNCIL—A handbook of safety activi-

ties containing practical program suggestions: patrol organi-

zation and references.

Price $.35

PLAYGROUND PACKET—A collection of safety material for the

playground director. Contains 10 colored safety posters, a
safety play, crayon lessons and instructions for the safe use

of playground equipment.

Price $1.00

Education Division, National Safety Council a

' ONE PARK AVENUE

NEW YORK, N. Y.

 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 611

(f) \Vhen, in delivering a stroke, the player’s mallet
makes a second contact with the playing ball, or gives it

a second impetus.

(9) When in delivering a stroke, the player pulls,
pushes or jams the playing ball with the mallet.

(h) \Nhen by a downward stroke, the player purposely
causes his ball to jump over an intervening object.

(1') \Vhen, in delivering a stroke, the player’s mallet
hits an arch, and thus causes a 'ball to move which was

' close to, or in contactJ with the arch.

(j) Playing a ball in the wrong sequence.

None: The next ball in right sequence follows. For
example, if white or blue is played after black, it is a
foul, because red was the right ball in sequence. There—

'i fore, the next ball to play is white. The opponent shall

have the option of replacing any balls moved by a play
in wrong sequcnce.

(k) \Vhen a player touches, moves, causes to be moved,
stops or diverts the movement of any ball, except as pro-
vided in thcse rules. For example, a player may put a
ball on the court, may place his ball for taking a split
shot, may tap a ball to remove the sand, etc., but he must
not pick up the wrong ball’ after making a bit; he must
not move any ball with his mallet, person or clothing; he
must not stop any ball, except as provided in rule 11, etc.

(i) Violation of a rule constitutes a foul.

(m) Moving or carrying a :ball that rests over the
boundary, except to bring it dircctly onto the court, as
provided in thesc rules.

(it) No player shall tap an arch wherein, or near which
a ball rests. Neither shall a player lean upon or touch
an arch wherein, or near which a ball rests. As a penalty
the opponent may claim forfeiture of the turn. All tests
(measurements) are by umpire or by opponent’s consent.

(0) Should a player stand or sit in line of an oppon-
ent's shot, aftcr being asked to move away, the playing
ball may repeat the shot, once or more, so long as the
opponent continues to stand or sit in line.

(,9) Hitting a ball with anything but the face (either
end) of the mallet.

(q) A player shall not touch or move any ball during
opponent’s turn of play. The penalty shall be that the
opponent may replace any ball so moved.

(r) It is not a foul if a player, preparatory to playing
a ball not in close position, accidentally touches the ball

with his mallet before he makes the stroke, but the ball
must be replaced.

Recreation and the Transient Program
(Continued from page 592)

the transient‘s life. The concentration of transient
care in units located in rural areas has not lessen—
ed the handicaps which are met in the attempt to
deve10p recreation activities, but this added dif-
ti'culty has been more than compensated for by the
fact that the transient units have been continued

under the \Vorks Progress Administration, thus .

eliminating a fear for the future. As the possi-

  
     

 
 

Mogazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 1
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

MAGAZINES

Leisure, January 1936
The Comradeship of the Trail, by Howard S. Cacly
Fun With a Lathe, by Marie Cooney and Naomi

Irvin
Curling—Thc Quaintest of Sports, by David
Goodman '

A Place to Play—at Home, by Walter B. Grover

The Country Dance Goes to the City, by H. S. Card

Thc Paradoxes of Modern Leisure, An editorial by
Eduard C. Lindeman

Have a Miniaturc Glass Garden, by Robert M. Hyatt

Our Own Little Theater, by Karen Monracl Jones

A Progressive Game Party, by Harry D. Edgren

The Camping Magazine, January 1936 .
Uncle Sam’s New Camping Grounds, by Fanning
Hearon
The History of Organized Camping, by H. \V.

Gibson
Views Afoot, by chry S. Curtis, Ph. D.

The Journai of Heaith and Physicai Education,
January 1936
Folk Dance in the Rhythms Program, by Eieonore
Groft Adams
Marching and Pyramids, .by M. A. Clevett
A Gymnasium Games Project, by Aldona R.

Narmonta
A Method for Drawing Home-and—Home Schedules

for Round Robin Tournaments, by John A. Tor—
ney, Jr. and Leonard \V. Stevcns

Baseball for Playgrounds, Sandlots and Parks for
Boys of All Ages, by Edward Higgin'bothani

Education, January 1936 o .
Physical Education’s Greatest Need, by \Villiam R.

LaPorte
Physical Education in Elementary Schools, by Helen

M. Cooper . o ‘
Sensible Motives for Physxcal Fitncss, by Robert 1:.

Laveaga .
Physical Education to Meet the Needs of the Indi-

vidual, by James A. Wylie

Waiking, January 1936
“\Vhat to See” \Valks in Winter, by Montgomcry

Mulford
Selecting Skis and Equipment, by Jules Andre

Out \Vith the \Valking Clubs

Parents’ Magazine. February 1936 .
Parties for Children of 2 to 12, by Margaret Mochrie

Our Bcst Cellar Theater, by Regina Woody
Family Fun, by Elizabeth King

Hygeia—The Health Magazine, February 1936 o 0
Toys and Games That Teach and Train, by Bllllc

Tee] M ettel

PAMPHLETS

Thirteenth Annuai Report, City Recreation Department,
Pontiac, Michigan, 1935

French’s Successfui Ptays (Especially Recommended for
High Schools. Churches and Other Amateur Groups).
Samual French, 25 West 45th Street, New York

Eighth Annuai Report of the Park Association of New
York City
(Continued on page 612)

612 HUNTER DA V CAMPS IN NEH" YORK CITY

Parks and Recreation, January 1936
The Boston Prado, by Arthur A. Shurcliff
Some Observations on Turf Surfaces, by Richard
Wilder
Depression Aids Davenport Park Development
An Ice Carnival

Leisure, February 1936
A Club for Craftsmen, by H. S. Card
Youth Demands Adventure, by Raymond A. Hoyer
\Vinter Wonderland, by John S. Gallagher
Kick and Keep Well, by Bill Bradford
Gallops on the Hobby Horse,’ by W'in Everett,

Jockey
A City-Wide Hobby Show, by Donald P. Newton

I

The Junior-Senior High School Clearing House,
February 1936

Play As a \Nay of Life, by Forrest E. Long

The Spirit of Play in Education, by Ellsworth
Collings

Play’s the Thing, by Alice V. Keliher . .

Hobby Clubs in the South Pasadena Junior High
School, by G. Deswood Baker

Recreation and Youth, by Arthur Henry Moehlman

Directing Play As 3. Civic Function, by Weaver W'.

Pangburn
Hobby Booklist, by Thelma .E'aton

 

 

bilities of intelligently guided programs become
more and more apparent, as evidenced by the
definite achievements of those centers which have
given more attention to this type of rehabilitation,
administrations are making decided efforts to pro-
vide qualified leadership and adequate equipment.
They are realizing the therapeutic and stabilizing
results to be derived from well rounded recrea-
tion programs. It will be most interesting to watch
the role played by recreation in the future de-

velopment of transient care.

Nature Education Social and

Recreational
(Contimwd from page 595)

with either alarm or disdain. Even the running of
science sketches in the motion pictures may have a
place and there are those who may be won to the
interest of science or in science from the amuse—
ment plane. \Ve can bring possibilities Upon the
stage but the individual must make his own hobby
choice in terms of what give him a real thrill and
enjoyment, whether it be the kinds of bait or the
conservation of fish. Leisure-time pursuits may
extend beyond the level with which the interest
started. The laboratory is not as important as the
subject; the subject is not as important as the
leader, and the leader is not as important as citi-
zens and the public mind. Science is a legitimate
free-time activity and has a place in social changes
and adjustments which in the end widens appreci-
ations, attitudes and knowledge.

Winter Day Camps in New York City
(Continued from page 599)

“Wee man all alone in the deep dark woods

He wears upon his head such a queer broad hood;
Tell me quickly if you can

What to call this little man

VVho’s standing all alone in the deep dark wood”

was none but their old friend Jack-in-the-pulpit.
Through the use of rhythm and enjoyment, self-
confidence is bred. There are the cowboy songs
and quare dances. and with two real Indians in
the camps the boys, especially, enjoy Indian danc-
ing during camplires.

The story-telling period follows lunch and al-
lows for some folk stories such as Uncle Remus
tales, camping stories and historical romances and
American hero type of story. There is often some
dramatization and pantomime. At this time, too,
the children may ‘try out some of the stunts such
as camel-waddle, snake walk, feather roll, kan-
garoo leap, stiff leg bend and scores of more of
such stunts. I

I
I

Camping Is a Vital Factor in Education

Always an effort is made to lead subtly from
the present day living conditions to the pioneer or
early American stage of development, for while I
the camp is planned to compensate for the lacks of
city living, the way is open for adventure. The '
camp has access to materials and methods beyond
the reach of the school room. Along with the
process of personality unfolding is consciously
woven glamour of America’s background and a

paving of the way to honesty, loyalty and pa—
triotisin or pride in our country.

“Since play life is reality to children,” a promi-
nent educator has said, “through play ways means
suggest themselves for guidance away from
habits of a negative pattern.” By substituting tall
growing trees, rocky slopes, kettle hole valleys for
narrow crowded st‘l’eets, empty deserted buildings
and the docks and wharves surely a more whole- r
some constructive use will be made of the leisure
time that is forced upon everyone. In New York
City particularly are children’s activities apt to as-
sume questionable tendencies, because of the con-

ditions under which they are obliged to find play
interest.

Camping has proven a most effective means of
developing the whole child, in fact, President
Eliot of Harvard has said, “Camping is the most

‘ important contribution to education that America

has given the world.”

  

THE GARDEN CENTER INSTITUTE OF BUFFALO 613

The Garden Centerlnstitute of Buffalo

(Continued from page 602)

cut for the picture collection if they are illus-
trated. Such a picture collection is very use—
ful in that it may serve both the purpose of
decoration as well as of information.

A file of pamphlet material and horticultural
articles cut from magazines helps greatly in
answering questions and providing data for
programs, lectures or written articles. \Vhile
much of this material is ephemeral it is ex—
tremely useful, for it is often much more up to
date than are books. It should be carefully
filed under subject headings, and although it
should be gone through periodically and some
of it discarded, much of it will be of use for a
long period of time. At the Garden Center
Institute we have worked out our own sub-
ject headings. This procedure would be neces-
sary in every case, for the amount and type of
material available would influence to a great
extent the subject headings to be used.

Our exhibits are often furnished by commer—
cial houses but they are products whose use
we can recommend yet which may be unfa-
miliar to many gardeners. Such exhibits should
be changed quite often and be seasonable in

character.

Perhaps most important of all is the worker
at any garden center. She must be able to meet
all kinds of gardeners, sympathize with their
garden ailments and suggest cures, and rejoice
with them over each new achievement. Al—
though she may not know the answers to all
the questions which may come to her desk,
she must know how and where to find the an—
swers. Sometimes it is necessary to know the
question as well as the answer, for the puzzled
amateur is often at a loss to know how to state
his troubles! \Vhile the director may give few
talks, she must know the best lecturers on each
subject as well as the chief interests of her
patrons.

As an educational project the teaching of
gardening is new, yet old, for we have received
much instruction over the garden gate. Now,
by our Garden Center Institute, we seek to
place this information where it is available to
all who wish to learn this oldest, yet always
newest hobby of all.

I936 Edition
Swimming Pool Data

and Reference Annual

0 Now being prepared for
the press. Pre-publication
price $1.00. After publica-
tion, the regular price of
$2.00 per c0py will be main-

tained permanently.

Hoffman-Harris, Inc.

404 FOURTH AVENUE
New YORK CITY

A Sport for Every Girl

(Continued from page 603)

be successful. It is concerned with organizing
girls’ sports according to the girls’ own desires.
One of the newer types of competition which the
VVomen’s Division promotes is play days.

Play days are a way for groups to play together
and build a spirit of cooperation, versus the old
way of deadly contests for championships and
costly prizes. Girls love a play day or a Sports
Day because large numbers of girls from a school
or organization take part in many different games.
For example, in Rock Hill, South Carolina, two
schools had a play day in which a hundred girls
joined in seven different activities. In the old
interscholastic plan only fifteen girls could have
played. In Trenton, New Jersey, eight schools
came together for a whole morning of play. In
Vermillion, South Dakota, 120 girls from six
schools held a play day. And in the Y.VV.C.A. in
Orange, New Jersey, business girls had a play
night. It is to the credit of the high school in
Bound Brook, New Jersey, that 80 per cent of its
girls played in some intramural sports rather than

614

 

)1»

 

 

CAMPING
WORLD

THE NATIONAL MAGAZINE
OF CAMPING

CAMPING IVORLD Magazine is . . . outstand-
ingly different . . . authoritative . . . interesting

. complete . . . written and edited by men
and women whose names command respect.

CAMPING “TonLD is concerned with the latest
developments in every phase of “Camping”
. . . Recreation . . . Education . . . Leader-
ship . . . Management.

FEATURE ARTICLES FOR MARCH

0 PHILOSOPHY AT WORK IN CAMPING

PLANS FOR A CAMP BUNGALOW
VITAMINS. HOW TO USE THEM
WHAT PARENTS EXPECT OF CAMP
HOW TO MAKE A CAMP PROGRAM

Insure being up-to-the-rninute by sending in
your subscription to Camping World. One
helpful article will repay the cost of the sub-
scription. The price is $2.00 per year (eight
issues). or $3.00 for two years (I6 issues). -

CLIP THE COUPON BELOW AND MAIL
WITH YOUR REMITTANCE. TODAY!

Camping World
11 East 44th Street. New York. N. Y.

Please enter my subscription. Enclosed find 5

CITY .................................................. .. STATE ................ ..

mow PRINT 11-3

 

.I SPORT FOR EVERY GIRL

 

 
     
   
  

reporting that one varsity team of six girls bea
the neighboring city. After all, sports are for th
girls, for their recreation, and are not meant t
exploit the girl for commercial or publicity pur
poses. we hope not only to prove that there is a
sport for every girl, but also to see that every girl
gets into an athletic activity adapted to her néeds
and her own desires.

With the alluring list of activities available to-
day and the knowledge that girls—just the every-
day girls in every age and group—want some kind
of recreational sport, why is there so small a pro-
portion who actually participate? And what is the
problem we. as citizens face?

First, there is the fact that while the standards
permitted by the \Vomen’s Division and similar
groups have been endorsed nationally by leaders
in many spheres, lay men and women do not un—
derstand the need for such standards or do not
know problems exist in promoting sports for girls.
Progress has been made in promoting play days
or informal sports in schools, but progress in the
communities has been slow for adults, for the busi-
ness and industrial girls and for married women.

It is important then that biasiness men and club-
women recognize the values in a varied. recrea-
tional program of sports for girls and women;
that they urge that in recreation centers, churches
and industries games like badminton, deck tennis
and shuFHeboard be offered and not just a single
sport. like a championship basketball league. There
is need for an enlightened press that will help to
popularize sports through stories of large group
activities. like a splash party in the Y.\V.C.A. pool
for 12 5 girls rather than featLIre an individual girl
Champion. If community leaders will support a
play program meeting the needs of all girls, we
will not be shocked by news of girls playing foot-
ball, or of grammar school girls playing boys’ bas—
ketball rules on a man's court.

Leaders are the key to success in this program,
we need professionally trained women and proba-
bly we ought to begin in the schools and colleges
to train leaders among'the girls themselves who
have experienced the sheer fun in recreational
sports, and who will then demand women leaders
and the standards of the N.A.A.F.

In this day of increasing leisure time and the
emphasis on recreation programs, the opportunity
is ours to create a new attitude toward sports for
women and to provide a more attractive and ex—
tensive program.

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Play: Recreation in a Balanced Life

By Austen Fox Riggs, M.D. Doubleday; Doran and
Company, New York. $2.50.

ABALANCE between work and play is quite as essential

to a happy life as balances of proteins, carbohydrates
and fats are to physical health. This is Dr. Riggs’ thesis
in his wise and stimulating book, and how to maintain
that balance is its theme. “It is an all important prob-
lcm, for upon its happy solution depends the quality of
life necessary for the deveIOpnIent of a personality capa-
ble of serving, cooperating with and contributing to 1m-
manity, and finally of enjoying the happiness which is the
fruit of living wisely.”

No one can afford to miss this sane and helpful book.

World Beneath the Microscope

By \V. VVatson-Baker. The Studio Publications, Inc.,
381 Fourth Avenue, New York. $2.50.

TIIIs VOLUME is one of “The New Vision” series de-
voted to “the forms of today, and the fresh outlook
with which, aided by the camera, we survey machines,
the work of man, and nature." About aihundred illus—
trations in photogravure have been selected and arranged
with a view to vivid presentation. Tiny plants, shells,
animals and inorganic matter arc cnlarged so as to be
visible to the naked eye. Individuals whose hobby is
science—and their number is rapidly increasing—will
find this book a fascinating addition to their libraries.

How to Judge Motion Pictures

By Sarah McLean Mullen. Published by Scholastic, New

York. $.25.

HIS PAMPHLET, which also contains a scction on How

to Organize a Photop.’ay Club, is designed for the use
of high school students. It is based 011 the assumption
that if our millions of high school students learn good
standards for judging the phOtoplays which they will in—
evitably see, there is likely to be at least a slight advance
along the entire front of human thought. “The moving
picture appreciation movement," Mr. William Lcwin
points out in his foreword for teachers, “combines very
well with two new educational trends—the teaching of
the prOper use of leisure time and the new emphasis OII
social attitudes in the teaching of literature."

Official Basketball Guide l935-36

Edited by Oswald Tower.
No. 700R. $.25.

HF. NEW BASKETBALL GUIDE notes a. number of

changes in the rules for this season, several of which
will he of Special interest to playcrs of the game. The
booklet also gives a general review of baskctball through-
out the country.

Spalding’s Athletic Library

Boy Days and Boy Ways

By$ Frank H. Cheley. The Judson Press, Philadelphia.
1.00.

AREAL Bovs’ BOOK for real boys—one which preaches

some fine sermons in camp life through stories with-
out a tinge of sermonizing. It speaks in the language of
thc teen agc boy, and adults reading it will learn of some
of the mistakes they may be making in their approach to-
boys.

Plays for Club, School and Camp

By M. Jagendorf. Samuel French,.New York. $1.50.
THE NEEDS of boys and girls from eight to fourteen

years of age have been taken into account in the com-
pilation of these seven plays. which are designed to serve
a variety of purposcs. They contain sufficient action to
suit the liveliest child and have literary merit. The plots
have been taken from the literature of great authors and
often contain their very phrases and terms of expression.
This volume will help fill a need for plays, especially
those suited for the use of camps and clubs.

—I—-
-—

Oflicers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association
OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAvtrs T. KIRBv, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

MR5. EDWARD’ W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, MOIine, 11].

CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville. Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAvISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

CHARLES HAYDEN, New York, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX. Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. EDWARD E. HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. FRANCIS DELAcv HYDE, Plainlield, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBv, New York. N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis. Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASsrTER, Charlorte, X. C.

,lnSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDwARD E. Looms, New York, N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERv, Philadelphia, Pa.

\YALTER A. MAY, PittShurgh. Pa.

CARL E. MILLIREA', Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodlniry, ..\‘. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WAnstRTII, JR., Washington. D L.
J. C. \VALSH, New York. N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURO, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. \VINANT, Concord, N. H.

MRS. WILLIAM H. WOODIN, JR., Tucson, Ariz.

615-

o

