To Whom Does the River Belong?

1-0 whom does the river belong?
To the boy and girl in the canoe, gliding along in the moonlight.

To whom is the bay and its islands and the rocky shore line?
To him who silently sails it.

Who has leased the ocean?

He who swims it, jumps its breakers, who knows it at midnight
and midday, who understands its many voices.

Who has most shares in the sun?
He who takes time to bathe his body in its rays.
In whose name is the deed to the woods?

In his name who tramps it, who wades its brooks, who sees its
wild flowers and reads its signs.

Who owns the mountain?
He who climbs it and lies on its summit and watches the clouds
go by.
To whom does the craft of the world belong?

To him who knows and can use the tools, who can see and
understand its beauty.

For whom are the gardens?

For those whose hands love the soil, whose eyes can watch the
growth from day to day, for those who lose themselves in
its beauty.

For whom are the books and the thoughts of all ages?
For those who can read and for those who can think.
For whom is the music, for whom is the art of the world?

For those who can hear it, for those who can see it.

Wad—v @mwm

 

JANUARY 1936

 

477

478

A New Year Is With 'Us

 

Courtesy Minnesota Municipalities, December 1935

Ring oui ihe old. ring in ihe new.
Ring. happy bells. across ihe snow:
The year is going. lei him go;

Ring oui ihe false. ring in ihe irue.

mTennyson.

 

ecreation in the Years to Come

the age of plenty and measures that need to he
I taken to adapt ourselves to it. that I am speak-
ng only as a consulting engineer and in a private
apacity. I am not representing the government.
[lily relation to the government and to my other
l‘clients is that of a consultant, which is the same
thing as a professional back seat driver. I am not
responsible for what my clients decide to do and
they are not responsible for what I say.

The technological revolution has had many wild
words said about it on both sides of the argu—
ment, but the real, historical and important change.
in human affairs, the most spectacular aspect of
the technological revolution is the appearance of
electric instruments. The machine age for more
than a century has been gradually changing the
productivity of man, but has been calling for an
increasing volume of capital and an increasing
volume of labor. Now comes the electric instru-
ment. such as the thermostat, which takes the
place of man as a machine tender. Now we have
come to the time when the power age calls for
decreasing quantities of labor and even decreasing
quantities of capital, as the productive power of
the race continues to increase.

In agriculture similar things are happening. The
new science of agronomy is threatening to do
things that will make your eyes pOp. Apparently
within our lifetime a few of our best acres, with
a few of our best farmers, can supply all the food
we need, and even all the industrial materials that
we can make by agricultural methods.

Some people think that the way to get rid of
the surplus laborers in industry is to send them
back to the farms. Other experts think the way
to get rid of the surplus farmers is to 6nd jobs
for them in industry. There is very little to be
looked for by' shifting from one to the other the
crews of two sinking ships. Still other people
think that in capital goods
we can hnd an opportunity
for the labor of our surplus
population. Capital goods
construction is also begin—
ning to be affected by tech-
nology. Pre-fabricating is

IT IS NECESSARY for me to say, in speaking about

By DAVID CUSHMAN COYLE

still in its infancy but apparently has possibilities.
In manufacturing, on the farm, and in capital
goods, the opportunity for human beings to be
employed is diminishing, and so far as we are
now able to see it will diminish further and per—
manently. There is apparently no evidence of any-
thing but a further increase in the volume of
technological unemployment. If people are to be
employed at all and not simply left upon doles
they must be employed in services, the only form
of human activity that does not depend upon un-
limited quantity of raw materials and electric
power.

Problems of Over-Production

Plenty is a situation in which the characteristic
maladjustments of the social order do not center
in difficulties of production as they do in scarcity
countries like China, but center primarily in dif—
ficulty in getting rid of the products. You can
look at the United States and see what troubles
we are in. Why do we have to have the AAA?
It was the difficulty in getting rid of products.
The characteristic of the plenty stage of evolution

I is that the difficulty is not in finding workers but

in finding work. That is our situation. That situ—
ation has come to nearly the whole Western world.

There are two possible ways of getting out of
the troubles we are now in. One would be to let
loose those races that are able to increase their
numbers faster than technology can catch up. If
that were to occur it might be possible to over—
run the lands with people fast enough to destroy
forever the possibility of plenty, and all the prob—
lems of plenty, in that way easing the strain on

Less "tea-room art" but more music, drama and hob-
bies;the opportunity to live dangerously; recreation activ-
ities that are red-blooded, vital and have vitamines—
all this we may expect in the years that are to come!

479

480 RECREATION IN THE YEARS To COME

our minds at the expense of letting the Malthu-
sian law loose on humanity. But the Western
world has discovered the way to plenty. \Ve have
got our technology running ahead of our popu-
lation.

Apparently what is happening abroad at the
present time is the organization of the world to
hold in place the nations that are still in the ex-
pansive mood, until such time as all the world is
prepared to.take on technology and utilize the pos-
sibilities of plenty. If that occurs, if those nations
that are not overcrowded are able to hold their
lines, then the chance of civilization occurring on
earth within the next few hundred years appears
to be excellent.

Services in a country
like the United States, a

The essential adaptation to high productivity is
the diversion of the surplus national income into
expenditures for the kind of work recreation lead-
ers do, and that is a purely technical matter, re-
gardless of morals, regardless of justice, or right
and wrong. In order to make the machinery run
it is essential that people who never again will
have an opportunity to be returned to the produc-
tion and distribution of goods should obtain in-
come by working in service occupations that they
may have the money to buy their share of goods.

That is the adaptation that has always occurred
wherever the human race has found itself in con-
ditions of plenty. Never before has the human
race found a plenty coun-
try on such a scale numeri-
cally as that which faces

plenty country with ade-
quate natural resources,
with adequate technology,
without too much popula-
tion—~constitute the an-
swer, and the only answer,
to technological unemploy-
ment. But technology is
not a disease for which
the services are the cure.
On the contrary, the neces-
sity of working eighteen
hours a day and the pov—
erty of recreational and
cultural services that char-

"David Cushman Coyle," said Dr. John
H. Finley in his introduction, "is an au-
thorI lecturer and consulting engineer.
Even before the depression he was one
of those who had begun to feel that a
larger proportion of the wealth of the
nation should be invested in cultural
services. As the numbers of unemployed
began to increase, his voice was in-
creasingly heard urging that more em-
ployment opportunities be created in
parks, recreation centers, museums and
other educational, recreational and cul-
tural services. The whole recreation
movement is indebted to Mr. Coyle
for his keen analysis and for his effec-
tive championing of the importance of
the cause in which we are engaged."

us now, but it has hap-
pened before sporadically
and temporarily. on a
small scale, in the South
Sea Islands, occasionally
in Europe, and various
places, and in history we
see the outburst of a civi-
lization or a culture, sav-
age or civilized, according
to circumstances.

Human Nature a
Changeable Phenomenon

Human nature, under

acterized our pioneer per-
iod were the disease for
which technology is the cure.
At the moment we have a bad case of indiges—
tion because we had more of the cure than we

could absorb, but we must recognize that the "

purpose and function of technology is to destroy
the necessity or the opportunity for great num-
bers of men to work eighteen hours a day, and
give them time for recreation. It is also its func-
tion to destroy the necessity for people to be in-
secure. W e are prepared to create a sufficient sur-
plus so that we can guarantee security to all our
people regardless of their age, their health, their
skill or their adequacy. We can treat them as
members of the human family, asvwe would treat
members of our own family. Those who are capa-
ble and able to work can be given the opportunity
to work, and those who are incapable can be sup-
ported by the rest of us, and easily, so that we do
not need to be insecure. '

 

conditions of economic
security, is quite a differ-
ent thing from the human nature that we are ac-
customed to. Culture naturally bursts forth when
people are released from danger of poverty and
starvation. It did not burst forth in the United
States only because we are so complicated, that
we are unable to understand our own system. But
where the numbeis of people are not so great, as
in the South Sea Islands, when they found them-
selves in the situation where all the material goods
they could possibly make out of their natural re-
sources took them only an hour or two a day, then
naturally, without any philosophy or anyone tell-
ing them anything, it appeared obvious to them
that there was no point in catching more fish and
then plowing them under, and no point in their
making more canoes or more fish spears than
they could use and being unemployed because"
they didn’t know what to do with them. Just as
soon as they found that they had enough to eat

 

RECREATION IN THE YEARS TO COME 481

and all the clothing they wanted, they occtlpied
the rest of the time dancing, swimming, and mak-
ing love and generally amusing themselves. That
was the natural and normal adaptation to a situa—
tion in which life was easy.

Their human nature was quite different from
our own. we have a. tendency to a characteristic
meanness of thought which is a real social danger.
W e are mean even in our virtues. Thrift appears
to us to be a virtue, an astonishing perversion of
normal human instincts due of course to the time
when thrift was necessary for social reasons. We
tend to be timid; we tend to be “yes” men; we are
afraid if we lose our jobs we can’t get others, and
we are cautious not to stick our necks out, as we
say. Caspar Milquetoast is the typical American.
That is why we all understand him so well and
view his eXploits with so much sympathy. He is
ourselves. Generosity and recklessness among us
are so unusual that they excite remark. Among the
South Sea Islanders to be generous and hospitable
was so normal and instinctive that I doubt if they
had any word in their language for it. Poverty
never occurred to them. How could it? The idea
that man was economically determined would not
he a thought that could be translated into their
language. The South Sea Islanders were always
young. They were young at all ages. Melville
describes them as always laughing,‘gay, reckless.
and irresponsible. They never took thought f0]
the morrow. They had many of the Homeric
virtnes.. They were always looking for physical
danger, having no economic danger to keep their
minds occupied.

\Ve can ex-
pect that if and
when we solve
the problem of
plenty, when we
come through
our present mal-
adjusted period
of economic in—
digestion to a
place where we

Sports having in
them elements of
danger will make
a strong appeal

are able to make our high technology system run,
we shall make it run by devices of social order
that will give us economic Security and our human
nature will snap into a different form. It will
snap quickly. Human nature, of course, is not
supposed to be changeable, but as a matter of fact
we know it is the most' changeable phenomenon
that is known to biology. The reason people are
different from animals is because the animals are
comparatively unchangeable, but human beings
change with great rapidity and in all sorts of
directions.

Historically, we remember the time of Eliza-
beth when after the persecutions and burnings at
Smithheld were over, English ships were captur-
ing gold from the Spaniards, the time came when
a single ship sailing up the Thames carried
enough treasure on board to pay off the national
debt. Those days came on suddenly, and suddenly
the whole English race snapped into an age of
cultural activity and gaiety that we now remember
as the Elizabethan period. Then it snapped back
in the period of the Stuarts. Those changes oc-
curred rapidly.

\Ve can expect within our own life time, if we
get our adjustment to plenty, as there is some
chance‘ of our doing——-we can expect to see human
beings quite different from what we have always
thought they were.

A Glimpse Into the Recreational Future

The characteristic of youth lasting through life
which is so common under conditions of economic

 

482 RECREATION IN THE YEARS TO COME

security will naturally affect the demand for rec-
reation and for cultural activity of all kinds. You
can expect many of the things that you now
observe among the more youthful types to be
more widespread among people of all ages. Curi-

osity of the scientific type rather than of the in- ..

tellectual type is likely to be more widespread. In-
tellectual activity many times is apt to be the
product of social pain or fear, but the curiosity
of a boy who reads popular science is the kind we
would expect to increase. Hobbies of various
kinds will grow. Creative activity, the use of the
hands in tasks that require skill, has been sup-
pressed in the casc of many people because they
had used too much of their minds worrying about
the rent. It is difficult, as you know, for anyone
whose whole mind is one vast toothache because
of the fact that he has no job and doesn’t know
when he will be thrown out of the house, to get
any real joy out of using tools in the basement.

You can expect an increase of those types of
activity.

It seems likely, however, in view of our previ-
ous experience of human nature in time of plenty,
that the most important of all new characteristics
which will appear is the insistent demand for
physical danger. Of course you see it now in the
desire to drive automobiles and drive them fast,
and the desire to fly. That desire will probably
increase. Young people must have danger 0r their
minds will be warped. Young men, and probably
young women, can’t live normally without the risk
of life, and as we continue our youth longer to—
ward old age, the age at which we must have dan—
ger will probably be continued. We have lost
many of our old opportunities for the normal
Operation of the desire for dangerous activities.
’War, since it has developed to the point that the
combatants can’t see each other any more, has lost
the vitamines it used to have in Homeric times
when, as Homer says, Menelaus was noted be-
cause he was good at yelling “boo.” Menelaus
was close enough to the enemy so he could go
into battle with sword and shield, yelling to scare
them off. Now one nation, playing with the idea
of war, is hoping to scare all the savages by shoot-
ing off things from a long distance at them. Even
personal fighting has ceased to have-the vitality
that it used to have in the days when people came
- to close quarters.

The necessity for tinding ways of sport in which
the danger of dcath is always present will be one

of the things that I think you will need to keep in
mind. No sports that are safe have the necessary
vitamines. Sports that are safe may be amusing.
but somewhere in the environment of normal peo-
ple they are going to find ways of subjecting
themselves to possible death, whether sailing a
small boat across the Atlantic, whether flying or
gliding, whatever it may be, or whether only play-
ing football, there- has got to be something where
they feel justly that a certain percentage of them
will not live through.

The herd instincts, the tendency for people to
want to be in groups, to do things together, you
may also expect will increase in their appeal as
people are freed from the humiliation of unem-
ployment and of economic fear. There is a ten-
dency which no doubt you have noticed for people
to retire into their holes to die as despair comes on
them. When they are released from that they are
likely to come out of their holes and want com-
munity activity; they will want to do together
things like drama and music, and those things will
need to be organized for them and facilities will
nced to be provided. But I think we should keep
in mind the fact that they will need to have things
that are red-bloodcd, and that are vital, and that
have vitamines.

This leads me to speak of art and handicraft.
In the first place art. like religion, has been used
in times past, and particularly in the times through
which we are passing, as an anodyne for despair.
It was necessarily, in many cases, the only medi-
cine that was available to people who were hu-
miliated, who were prostrate, whose emotional
lives were warped and twisted by inability to find
a place in the world. That is the best you can do
in many cases, but we should not regard it as a
desirable thing that the arts of life should be only
a drug to keep people alive who are subjected to
despair when despair is unnecessary and when
they should be cured, when we should use our
own minds to find means to release them from
despair.

Last year at oue'of your meetings I was shock-
ed at what appeared to me to be a thoughtless ac-
ceptance of the fact that you can get young people
to serve as volunteers, young unemployed people,
in programs, and so save your budget. I think
you should curse your budget. If you can’t do
anything better. all right, get them, but don’t sleep
peacefully of nights! It is an outrage that young
people should be in a position where their idealism

 

RECREATION IN THE YEARS TO COME 483

can be drawn upon by the
community without pay, to
be used for helping the con-
ditions of the community.
Those young people need
Erst of all money—money to
marry, money to buy a home,
to have babies, to buy clothes,
theater tickets. After that
call on them for idealism.

to live on love and fresh air

is an outrage 0n humanity,

and it is an outrage to expect them, with despair
in their hearts, not knowing where they are going
to get enough to eat, not knowing how they will
find a place to live, to come out and do for noth-
ing for the community what the community
should pay for! It is. not a situation that should
be taken easily and you should not find satisfac-
tion in the fact that it saves your budget.

I think we should not expect, in the age of
plenty. that there will be a great increase in anemic
art. After many thousands of miles of automobile
travel I have been impressed with what seems to
me the fact that the world already has enough
painted china dogs and birch bark picture frames.
Those things do not represent the joy of life.
They represent, as you know, a bitter and some-
times hopeless struggle to wring a small living out
of a hostile world. I think we can expect that the
great outburst of culture which is the only possi-
ble adjustment to plenty will not take the form of
tea-room art.

On the other hand, I think you can consider
that if we are in for an age of civilization, that
civilization will run the gamut from higher art at
the top to an outburst of unplanned and uncon-
trolled vulgarity at the bottom. “7 e are inclined
to think of the old civilizations as having been
highbrow because of the fact that only pieces of
them have come down to us. The Age of Pericles
gave us the l‘arthenon, and in those days the great
Greek dramas were written and played, but we
sometimes forget that Aristophanes seems high-
brow only because he is in Greek. In those days
Aristophanes was in the same class with Mae
\Vest and 0t1r beloved Will Rogers, and as for the
cheaper drama of Pericles" time, it was probably,
from what little we know of it, considerably lower
in the cultural scale than our cheapest vaudeville.
And you remember that in Elizabeth's time, in
Shakespeare’s time, when some of our greatest

"It is easier to minimize than to over-
estimate the significance of play in our
national life. We seem as a people to
be moving toward a more equitable dis-
tribution of income and leisure time. Both
changes are profoundly significant' the
latter no less than the former. For on
the intelligent use of our surplus time
depend the distribution of the imponder-
ablesI the dittusion of education' the
sharing of the healthI cultural and artis-

tic values ot lite."—R. Worth Frank
But to expect young people in Social Progress,

dramas were written, the
common people liked their
humor as broad as it was
long. You can count on it
that any vital age that may
come will be characterized by
the unprintable public taste
that was characteristic of all
other great cultural ages. It
will not be pretty; it will not
be built on cute little ideas,
and it will be full of vita-
mines and red blood. One of
our grcatest legal lights, one of our most learned
judges, sitting in a burlesque show, turned to a
neighbor and said, “Thank God I have vulgar
tastes.”

In looking forward to the development of rec-
reation in the future it is desirable to realize the
comparatively large ,amount of red blood that will
be in the demands of the people as they are freed
from economic fear and as their temperament
varies more and more widely from that of Caspar
Milquetoast. I think in educating ourselves to-
wards the future, or preparing for the time when
we will have to deal with the young people of all
ages, it would be desirable to study with dis-
crimination the history of our own wild and woolly
\Vest. There, for a time, in~ some places, a man
could always get a job. He could go and get a
job for $30.00 a month herding cattle with noth-
ing to spcnd his money for until he got a chance
to go to town. Under those circumstances he was
quite different from the Americans that we are
accustomed to meet now. He had those same
characteristics of the South Sea Islander although
of a different race and under such different con-
ditions. He was reckless and irresponsible, gay
and young. He toted a gun and he was always
looking for danger, being free of economic dan-
ger, for he knew whenever he was broke he could
go and get another job. He went out looking for
chances to risk his life. The American people in
a comparatively short time, Ending the conditions
of the Wcst suitable for development of the
Homeric Age, developed it quickly. The person-
nel, the population, to cngage in the Homeric life
of the West appeared out of the American pe0ple
without any delay, and we can expect that it will
appear again as soon as the economic conditions
make a proper place for it, and it will appear all
over the country this time. You should begin to
EldjllSlI your mind to the fact that the America of

January I935.

484 RECREATION IN THE YEARS TO COME

the Age of Plenty will have in many respects more
of the characteristics of the wild and woolly West
than it will have of the bread lines of our big
cities. Under those circumstances I can see that
we are going to be required to plan and to main-
tain facilities for outdoor activity of many kinds
and on a scale that at the present time would

seem fantastic.

Ours Is a Big Country

This is a big c011ntry.' I don"t consider that I
am doing my duty to my country if I stand any
place and fail to say that this is a big country, that
“you ain't seen anything yet,” you don’t know
what you are looking at! A real American ought
to have a map of the United States in his office or
in his house, and he should go with his mind
along the tremendous distances of our country.
If you can't travel yourself, go in your mind
across the plains and the mountains. Consider
how long it would take you even to fly from one
place to another in the United States. If you can
sit as I did the last twenty-four hours, when I
wasn't in bed, and see the tremendous miles of
our country even from Washington to Chicago—
and from Washington to Chicago could be put in-
side the state of Texas—you will realize that this
isa big country. Think about the map of the United
States. ‘Walk all around it in your mind. Sup-
pose that all the people of the United States, with-
out getting tired and without stopping to rest or
do anyhing else, should start to march past the
IVhite House to be reviewed by the President,
eight abreast, old and young, black and white,
men, women and children. If the procession
started down to Florida, across to New Orleans,
then to San Diego, up to the Canadian Border,
back across to the coast of Maine, and down to
Baltimore, eight abreast, 12,500 miles' of them, the
President could sit there and see them go by day
and night for three months and still they would
come. This is a big country. ‘What is a billion
dollars to us? I will tell you what a billion dol-
lars is. -It is $8.00 apiece, less than what you
spend for the morning paper in a year. A billion
dollars is the pennies that you take out of youlrl
pocket and give to the newsboy. hit “you ain’t
seen anything yet!” \Vhat is four billion dollars?
Four newspapers.

The United States has been losing at least forty
billion dollars a year by staying in this depres-
sion. That is what is costs us to be parsimonious:
that is what it costs the United States not to get

out of ’this depression. ‘We have lost enough by
not working and by not running our machinery
for the past five years to have bought the whole
United States, lock, stock and barrel. If we can
spend money, if we can find ways of making those.
who have money spend money, that money is
added to the national income. It adds about two
and one—half times to the national income because
whoever gets it spends it and someone else gets it.
Study of the CW’A indicates that for every $10.00
spent about $25.00 was added to the national in-
come. That indicates the vacuum into which you
are pouring your program of expansion. not only
of physical construction but of personnel. This is
a big country and everything that you have done
so far—what has that to do with forty billion dol—
lars a year? Begin to stretch your minds! There
is a lot ahead of us!

Out of the Caterpillar Stage

Another thing that I wish you would consider is
the fact that this is not the culmination of our
civilization. we have not, in three hundred years,
come to the top of the history of America. Think
of this little fact. For five hundred years there
was a colony in Greenland. It had a bishop from
Rome. The records are in the Vatican. And
Europe forgot it. For five hundred years white
men lived in America and then they disappeared
and were forgotten. Some of their descendants
are there yet and are called Eskimos. Do you
realize that we have been here only three hundred
years? \Ve have two hundred years to go to be
as old as the Greenland colony was before it van-
ished from the face of the earth and history had
no further knowledge of it. \Ve are only kids:
we have just arrived. All we have done in this
country is to get control of its natural resources.
That was the caterpillar stage. \Ve had nothing
to do but eat and grow‘fat. \\'e have eaten and we
have grown fat; even our minds are fat. And
now we have reached a stage of complete fatness
of mind and body, represented by the way we
have behaved since the war. \Vho but a bunch of
fatheads could behave that way?

Having reached the stage of complete fathead—
cdness, we have fallen into the stage of the chry-
salis during which the creature has neither arms
or legs and lies helpless to all the winds that blow
and gradually uses up its substancegwhile inside
of it obscure vital forces are rearranging all the
molecules in preparation for its birth. You realize

(Continued on page 519)

 

When Recreation Executives Meet

Mutual problems are discussed, warnings
are sounded and optimism is expressed!

HE FIRST SESSION of the morning meeting of
T the recreation executives, presided over by

Dorothy C. Enderis of the Department of
Municipal Recreation and Adult Education, Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin, was a symposium on public
school participation in recreation with a backward
look over the progress of the past five years and
an exploratory glimpse into the coming five-year
period. '

Floyd A. Rowe, Director of the Department of
Physical Welfare, Board of Education, Cleveland,
Ohio, reported that facts he had gathered from a
number of cities showed an increase in the recre—
ation facilities of boards of education for public
use through the utilization of grounds for sum-
mer playgrounds and of buildings for winter ac—
tivities. There has been a definite recognition of
responsibility for the teaching of certain skills and
subject matter to children by boards of education
to prepare them for the better use of their present
and future leisure time. This is manifest in the
recommendation of the social studies program, in
the increase of extra curricular activity-"fifty-
two different kinds of club activities are listed-—
and in the extension of the physical activities pro-
gram by way of the intramural program which
has come into prominence in the past few years.
In Cleveland the junior high
3 c h o o l s have abandoned

for a year what the schools can do and to
submit a report in November 1936. In another
the board of education has decided to open twenty
buildings as free community centers. A number
of communities indicate that the number and im—
portance of school playgrounds will increase
greatly in the next few years because of the new
emphasis being placed on education for leisure in
the public schools.

“These are typical,” said Mr. Rowe, “of de-
velopments throughout the country. The outlook
is encouraging.”

In the discussion which followed Mr. Rowe’s
paper the opinion was expressed that the progress
made by the schools in recreation has been due to
a large degree to the impetus given by community
recreation programs. Further, it seemed the con-
sensus of opinion that intraschool athletics are
growing in favor and that they offer advantages
over the system of intermural competition while
retaining the desirable-element of competition.

Cooperation Between Recreation and Adult
Education

In an attempt to outline a basis for cooperation

between recreation systems and adult education

programs, A. W. Thomp—
son, Director of Recreation

their interschool athletics to On September 30th. immediately preceding and Physical _Edu cation,
devote more time to intra- “‘9 OFF-“Hing 0“ “‘9 Nailonal Recrealm” C°"' Grand Rapids, Michigan,

mural athletics for all the

gress at.ChIcag.oI recreation executnvesodls- defined education as “a com
cussed In mornrng and afternoon sessnons.

Children their mutual problems and planned together tumqu process of rficewing
The developments of the for fumre development. While only exec"- experlence or havmg ex-
past five years in school rec- tives of city. county or state systems par- periences each of which

reation have been in the ticipated in the discussionS. many workers leaves some impress upon

right direction. What is go-
ing to happen in the next
five years?

from municipal systems and State Emer- us as individuals. In that
gency Recreation Programs were present
as interested listeners' and the attendance
was unusually large. A brief summary of

case we are the sum total
of experiences which we

In One  a committee some of “19 more impor‘I'an‘I' poin‘I-s raised had in the days  have

has been appointed to study in the discussions is presented here.

gone before.” “If educa—
485

486 WHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET

cation is that broad,” said Mr. Thompson, “then
there is a question as to whether there is any such
thing as adult education or whether education
stops at the time when an individual finishes f or-
mal schooling, whether it be in the high school,
the college or university or a graduate school.”

M r. Thompson raised the question as to whether
a new era is dawning for adults in which they are
to have the opportunities which formerly termi-
nated for them at the close of high school or col-
lege, or whether the present situation as it relates
to adult education is due to the stimulus of fed-
eral funds.

Some of the differences of opinion between rec-
reation and education have perhaps been grounded
in an academic difference of opinion. “Is there
any real difference between what you are trying
to do in the development of recreational oppor-
tunitics and the experiences which are being set
up in the educational field? Are those of us in
education and those of us in recreation thinking
in terms of service to all people or are we think-
ing in terms of an academic question and the dif-
ferences between the two?” “To me,” said Mr.
Thompson, “there is no difference between a recre-
ative experience that may be educative and an
educative experience which may be recreative.”

In the discussion which followed the point was
made that the attempt to draw a hard and fast
line between adult education and recreation is
creating some problems. _It is impossible to say
that music and drama are adult education while
softball belongs to recreation. Nor is it feasible
to make age the line of demarcation. To draw
such distinctions will be particularly difficult in
rural districts. The question of the number of
hours of service given under the WPA set-up also
adds to the problem.

It was agreed that while there are undoubtedly
problems ahead, it will be a most interesting ex-
perience to find out what can be done under a
plan of c00peration.

How Far Have Recreation Departments Been Able
to Work with Police Departments and Other
Agencies Attempting to Provide Con-
structive Programs for Juvenile De-
linquents and Pre-Delinquents?

Ernest W. Johnson, Superintendent of Play—
grounds in St. Paul, Minnesota, described the plan
which St. Paul has worked out successfully of
having a Juvenile Division in the Police Depart-

ment with a lieutenant as the active head. All
juveniles in difficulties are brought before the
lieutenant. If they have committed misdemean-
ors, damaged property or‘ are extremely mis-
chievous, they are referred to Mr. Johnson as.
head of the Playground Bureau and it becomes
his task to adjust them to the playground pro-
gram. As these boys are brought to the Juvenile
Division they are kept under observation for a
considerable time in order that their interests may
be discovered. Activities are then provided
through which, in their own groups, they may
have the forms of recreation which seem to ap—
peal to them most. They are permitted to do the
things they formerly have done such as playing
cards and rolling dice, but under very different
circumstances and without the usual accompani—
ments. They are organized into football teams
consisting of their own members, with rules sim-
plified, and they are allowed to “rough-house" all
they want without being held down to routine
rules.

Boys who violate the rules of the playground
are temporarily suspended from the grounds and
are brOUght before Mr. Johnson. These boys are
usually anxious to return to the playground and
after a warning and a pledge of good behavior,
Mr. Johnson gives them a letter permitting them
to return. He seldom finds it necessary to send any
of these boys to the probation office and as far as
possible avoids having them recorded on the books
of the police administration.

The question was raised as to the desirability of
keeping these boys in their own groups when they
participate in recreation activities. “How will
they adjust themselves to the social order if they
are kept separate in a gang program ?” Mr. John-
son’s reply was that they are not ostracized and
that the method used is simply a means of giving
them a picture of the play program and is the
medium through which they are gradually inte-
grated into community life. While the other boys
on the playground know that the newcomers rep—
resent a delinquency group because the eligibility
rules used for them are different from those of
the formal set-up and it is necessary to {it the boys
into the gang team regardless of age and size, the
fact is never emphasized and is accepted.

A number of' cities gave their experiences in
juvenile delinquency prevention treatment. In
Reading, Pennsylvania, the Police Commissioner
‘reports all difficulties with gangs to the Recrea-
tion Department. Through the funds made avail-

WHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET 487

able by the Emergency Edu-
cation Program in Pennsyl-
vania it has been possible to
get these boys into a school
gymnasium and to give them
all types of rough-house ac-
tivities including boxing,
wrestling and games. The
Department has been fortu-
nate in being able to secure
good leaders; some have been
athletic stars in college and
they are able to put on box-
ing gloves with the best of
the gang.

In San Francisco the Chief of Police meets
every two weeks with the Superintendent of
Schools, the Superintendent of Recreation, the
chief probation.ofhcer and the Director of Public
Health and Community welfare to discuss prob-
lems with which all are concerned. He has or-
ganized his young officers into a Big Brother
movement. In one particularly serious instance of
a gang of older boys, a young officer has organiz-
ed the gang into recreational groups at a neigh-
borhood house in the district. This effort has met
with great success. Cooperation of agencies, Jose—
phine D. Randall, Superintendent of Recreation in
San Francisco, California, feels will go far to
solve problems of delinquency.

In Oakland, California, when a number of chil-
dren in any one district show signs of becoming
troublesome the Recreation Department immedi-
ately organizes through the department or some
other recreational-educational agency activities in
which it believes the children will be interested
and invitcs them to take part. The activities are

Officer, St. Paul.

varied in scope and no distinction is made between '

delinquent boys and girls and others.

Los Angeles, California, has a coordinating
council in a number of districts in which all rec-
reational-educational organizations, P. T. A’s,
schools, churches and other neighborhood groups
havc one representative. The various councils
meet weekly to discuss problems in their immedi-
ate neighborhoods and ways of solving them
through school, settlement, recreational or other
facilities available. The lieutenant of the Police
Department in charge of juvenile delinquency is
a member. Very often when the court has taken
action in the case of a certain gang the group has
been taken to the playground where facilities have

"Periodical reporting to the office by
the child is a superficial proceeding of
little value. and is often harmful. The
probation .ofticer must have the interest
and the vision not only to see the child's
present viewpoint but to look with him
into the future. He must establish con-
tacts with the child and his family and
try to improve family relations. He must
be able to enlist the resources of the .
community to the end that the home,
church. school. courts. recreation de-
partment and other social agencies may

work together in the child's behalf."—,
John K. Donahue, Deputy Probation

been assigned to them at
times when they are not be-
ing used by other groups.

Higher Standards in Public
Recreation

Arthur P. Eckley, Director
of Recreation, Two Rivers,
‘Wisconsin, in opening his dis-
cussion having to do with the
interpretation of the philoso-
phy undcrlying recreation
work and its principles and
standards, said that leader-
ship was perhaps the chief
element involved in standards. He raised the ques-
tion, “Have we been able to maintain the stand-
ards which we have built up?” In 1929 the theme
of the Recreation Congress at Louisville was
leadership. At that time institute work was well
under way; a great many people had received rec—
reational training and budgets of recreation de-
partments were at their peak. Recreation leaders
were in a position to crystallize opinion regarding
standards of leadership in the recreation field. Im-
mediately afterward came the depression. Bud-
gets werc slashed and it became impossible in
many instances to pay for the kind of leadership
desired. Too often the leaders available through
F ERA programs were untrained and had to be
fitted to the position. As a result standards of
leadership, Mr. Eckley believes, have been low-
ered. He warned against the danger of accepting
unqualified people under pressure from govern-
ment offices with the necessity of placing people
in positions, or of yielding to the temptation of
getting something for nothing.

Another danger which Mr. Eckley believes rec-
reation leaders may be facing is a loss, through
the activities promoted, in those character values
which originally gave impetus to the recreation
movement. In too many cases recreation leaders
have been creating bodily values at the expense
of esthetic values. “If we are going to be just a
machine and operate only a system in which cer—
tain people are supposed to play basketball, and
we have painters and artists who are in the bas-
kctball program simply because. we as recreation
workers have set that up as a standard, we are
going to lose out. \Ve must retain those character

values and impress on the public the fact that
these are what we stand for.”

488 LVHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET

This presentation led to considerable discus-
sion. Some of those present felt that when the
necessity is faced of cutting the program to a
point where the community will suffer for lack
of recreational opportunities, it is preferable to
take untrained workers and maintain standards as
far as is possible under the circumstances. Safe—
guards, a number of executives pointed out, can
be set up by placing emergency workers under the
leadership of trained supervisors. This was felt
to be most important. In San Francisco as many
as 500 emergency recreatio_n workers a day have
been used under competent supervision of mem-
bers of the staff. Another safeguard lies in giving
as much training as possible to the emergency
workers through institutes, conferences, and dis-
cussion of problems. It was pointed out that in
large cities there are many people available in
emergency programs who have had training in
physical education, recreation, and the arts, and
who should be given every opportunity to take
responsibility. It is in the smaller communities
where the programs are primarily on a relief
basis that the chief danger lies.

Testimony from a number of communities
showed a very helpful expansion of the recrea-
tion program with the help of emergency recrea-
tion workers, not only in conducting activities but
in carrying on research, in'delinquency preven-
tion projects, in mapping recreation areas, and
for securing general information of value—pro-
jects for many of which formal budgets do not
permit. The meeting closed on the note that rec-
reation leaders owe a responsibility to emergency
workers and that every effort should be made to

cooperate with federal agencies in the present
emergency.

John E. Gronseth, Director of Recreation,
Sioux City, Iowa, served as chairman of the sec-
ond morning session which for its first topic dis-

cussed “Training for Recreation Work—What
Should Be Included?”

H. G. Danford, Director of Recreation, Lima,
Ohio, opening the discussion, urged recreation
executives first to make a study of the job from
all angles to determine the functions that are to be
performed and the problems to be met and solved,
and with the information gained to build a train-
ing program designed to equip workers with the
skills needed and knowledge essential to the solv-
ing of the problems.

A study of the problems of recreation consider—
ed from every angle shows that they can be
grouped under eight general headings:

(1) Interpretation of recreation and problems
involved in it

(2) The objectives of recreation

(3) Social organization, which includes the.
study of social movements, the social struggles,
the institutional establishment known as recreation

(4) The people themselves, their age and sex
differences, their nationalities, their traits, both
functional and structural, their characteristics,
capacities and need for recreation

(5) The program itself, which may be sub-
divided into two major headings—the educative-
recreative and the protective programs. The edu-
cative-recreative program includes all the major
activities that make up a comprehensive recrea-

- tion program, the analysis and classification of the

activities and their organization into a program,
program and standards here meaning character
education. The so-called “protective” program in-
cludes health education, safety, first aid, and the
like

(6) Leadership training and methods, both
direct (personal contact leadership) and indirect
(promotion) '

(7) Administration

(8) The history of administration

All the functions of the recreation worker or
recreation oihcial, and all of the knowledge about
and skills in recreation are included under these
eight problem groups.

Quality in recreational leadership means that
the recreation director must have skills in these
eight groups. He should be familiar with the in—
terpretation of recreation as a basis for thinking
about his work problems. He should know the
objectives of recreation that he must achieve. He
should know something about the institutional
establishment called recreation, and about the
laws, customs and attitudes toward recreation. He
should know the characteristics of the people with
whom he has to deal, their age and sex differ-
ences, their likes and dislikes. He must be fa-
miliar with the program of activities he is to ad-
minister, able to organize his program in an in-
telligent manner so that it will meet certain needs,
capacities and desires of his people. He should
have skill in leadership and ability to exercise in- '
genuity and skill in all the leadership procedures
in dealing with people. He must know enough

PVHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET 489

about the general principles of recreation pro-
cedure to be able to administer his program ef-
ficiently, and finally, he should have sufficient
knowledge of the history of recreation to give
him an understanding of the social origins and the
customs, habits, attitudes and general practices in
recreation.

\Vith this information the recreation executive
should be able to build intelligently a training pro-
gram, keeping in mind the importance of main-
taining a balance between skill and knowledge,
between the how and why of recreation, and be-
tween methods and materials.

The recreation worker who has great skill in
playing all the games in his program but who can-
not explain to an irate taxpayer why public funds
are being spent to provide these games is not a
well-trained worker. Nor ought recreation work-

ers to make the mistake of so emphasizing teach-

ing methods that their leaders will not have
enough subject matter to teach anything well.

Mr. Danford suggested a sample institute pro-
gram illustrative of the principles set forth. This
program was conducted in Lima.

“Recreation and Recent Social Changes” (in-
terpretation of recreation)

“Crime in the Leisure Time Program” (knowl-
edge of recreation objectives)

“State Legislation Pertaining to Recreation”

(social organization)

“Games for the Adolescent Boy and Girl” (age
and sex differences)

“Planning the playground Program” (the pro-
gram itself) ,

“First Aid on the Playground” (knowledge of
protective functions)

“The Administration of the Individual Play-
ground” (administration)

“The Effects of Puritanism On Recreational
Development in America” (history recreation)

This institute. and others held in Lima, were
attended by both ERA workers and regular staff
members who have an important part in helping
to train the emergency workers. The institutes
were SUpplemented by supervisory visits, consul-
tations, staff meetings, conferences and adminis—

tration.

C. E. Brewer, Commissioner of Recreation of
Detroit, Michigan, urged that recreation execu—
tives refuse to be influenced by the opinion which
exists in some quarters that relief workers are not
good recreation workers. “A lot of them are rec-
reation workers and don’t know it. It is up to the

recreation executive to make the proper selection
from these workers and then train them. The
problem is often that of educating the officials in
charge of selecting people from the relief rolls.
When these officials reach the point of realizing
which applicants from those available will make
good recreation workers, the battle is half won.”

In Philadelphia the Bureau of Recreation held
an institute for emergency workers with instruc-
tion given in drama, rhythmic activities, hand-
craft, games and other activities. Five instructors
from among the workers have taken Civil Service
examinations, and much good leadership material
has been discovered.

Louis C. Schroeder, Superintendent of Recre—
ation in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, spoke of the
excellent results secured from the month’s insti-
tute held in Pittsburgh by the National Recrea-
tion Association which was attended by approxi-
mately 150 people. He expressed the hope that
the Association would extend the service to a
larger number of cities.

What Are the New Demands Upon Public Recrea-
tion Systems? What Changes in Administration
Are Involved in Meeting These Demands?
What Is the Future of the Recreation
Movement in the Cities of the United
States? Elements of a Ten Year

Plan for Public Recreation

Gerald M. Phelan, Director of Public Recrea-
tion, Board of Education, Kenosha, Wisconsin.
pointed out that the demands placed on any rec-
reation department are determined largely by the
size of the town, its location, the type of its ma—
jor industries, and the character of its citizenry.
The South differs from the North, the East from
the West. The ideals, principles and goals set up
should have close similarity, but methods of ap-
proach necessarily differ. '

In spite of the differences, there are demands
which concern all recreation systems and which
are universal. Among these are reduced budgets
with the accompanying attempt to carry on as
complete a program as possible; increased leisure,
with its necessity for expanding the program—~
“to cope with the almost uncopable situation”;
calls for help from local organizations formerly
self—contained and self-operated and supported,
and increased requests for informatiOn and help
from communities which do not have full time
recreation departments. State and national agen—

490 WHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET

cies are pressing for time and information, and
the works Program is urging recreation officials
to submit projects which will take families from
the relief roll.

Speaking of problems involved in administra-
tion, Mr. Phelan said that in his opinion reduced
budgets and increased attendance necessitate a
program providing for greater mass participation
and eliminating high cost activities, and standards
of leadership must often be lowered.

“The future of recreation in any given com-
munity where a program has been in operation,”
said Mr. Phelan, “will depend almost entirely on
what has been done in the past. If your depart-
ment has been built up through ballyhoo and
cheap advertising; it your energies have been dis-
sipated in non-essentials: if your foundations
have been built on the shifting sands of pOpular
appeal..you can .look for decay rather than growth.
The underlying principles of recreation are as
dignilied, as basically sound, and as essential to
community welfare as is education. It is our job
to see they are considered as such.”

it will not be difficult to lay out a ten year plan
in‘an average city with an average director and
an average budget if we start at scratch. But we
must consider where we are at the present time
and where we wish to go. and then survey the
field between these points. Some departments
have already gone a long way; others which have
had a limited deve10pment will have a vast oppor-
tunity for growth.

The most essential features of any program
are: ( I) adequate leadership; (2) the crystalliza-
tion of sentiment in favor of the department; ( 3)
the necessity of developing cooperation among the
various agencies.

Facilities play an important part in carrying out
any plan. Playgrounds and play areas must be
established. Athletic fields
and indoor facilities should
be at the disposal of leaders.
Cultural attitudes should be
promoted. Undesirable com—
mercial recreation enterprises
should as far as possible be
eliminated. We must finally
reach a point where there is
a playground within access
of every child and where
there are athletic fields so
distributed that they may be
reached with comparative

I'The Government is spending millions of
dollars to develop recreation areas and
construct recreation buildings. These
facilities will naturally be turned over
to us to operate. and it we live up to
expectations our future is secure; but
it any one of you tails your failure at-
tects the rest of us, and it I tall down
on the iob l do an almost irreparable
damage to you all. The depression has
given us a chance and there is no limit
to the service we can render: but it also
spells our doom it we are not large
enough to carry on the work that the
community has a right to expect of us."

ease, and every citizen will be given a chance to
take part in some wholesome, inexpensive form of
recreation.

In the discussion which followed exception was
taken by a number of the executives to the state—
ment that high cost activities. usually the cultural
ones, must suffer a reduction. The low cost was
cited of maintaining the workshop in \Vestches—
ter County, N. Y., which is operated with a di-
rector, one instructor and a half time clerical
worker. There are from twenty to twenty—five
special instructors who receive only the amounts
paid in fees from participants ranging from 25
cents to one dollar. There are ten free classes
taught by members of the regular staff. A num-
ber of the executives felt that there is now a
tendency to increase budgets and that the outlook
for the future is hopeful. One executive pointed
out that increased demands on public recreation
departments have brought an increased backing
from the public which holds promise for the

° future.

Under Present Conditions What Can Be. Done to
Make More Rapid the Establishment of

Year-Round Recreation Systems?

In presenting this subject, Clayton C. Jones,
Supervisor of Recreation and Community Activi-
ties. Connecticut State Department of Education.
cited a number of things which recreation workers
must impress upon their communities. They must
make their communities realize that recreation
workers are a legitimate profession with a place in
the total community picture ; that they have a phi—
losophy and 'are abreast of the times, that they un-
derstand the problems facing the community and
have a clear conception of how the recreation pro—
gram may solve some of these problems. Mr. Jones
urged the community council as one of the princi-
pal instruments to be used
iii assuring the continuance
of the year-round program.
He pictured the council as
having two divisions———a pro-
fessional division similar to
a council of social agencies
through which recreation ac-
tivities can be coordinated
with those of other agencies.
and a lay council—the more
important of two divisions“
consisting of people living in
the community or neighbor-

 

WHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET 49]

hood in which a recreation program is operated. A
lay council is often the solution of the problem of
having a program dissolve into thin air. “It will
work with you all the way through, so that if there
is any danger of something you have built up being
broken down, they will rise in holy wrath because
it is theirs.” A lay council must, however, function.
Too many of them do not. The community council
can assist the recreation workcr in feeling the pulse
of the community and seeing- to it that the recrea-
tion program is the program of the people of the
community rather than of the director.

Another consideration in program development,
especially in the emergency program, is to see
that the program does not go too far. If a very
elaborate system is set up there is a tendency to
make the community feel it is too large and can-
not be put over. Standards must be maintained.
The training of people from relief rolls must be a
definite part of the program. There are many
among them who have ability but they ought not
to be placed in positions of responsibility until
there is assurance that their work can be guided.

- In regard to the personnel of the community
council Mr. Jones mentioned a number of types:
people who are interested in the community and
who are good workers; individuals who have the
rcspect of the community, the type of person
usually found working on committees in the 'in-
tcrests of thc community. Council members
should be chosen with great care.

The gencral discussion showed that a number
of cities have developed councils. Cleveland,
Ohio, has such a group made up of people repre—
sentative of various activity groups. When some-
one with skill in a new recreation activity is dis-
covered, an effort is made to have him assume
responsibility for that activity, or at least to at-
tcnd the meetings of that group.

There is no city-wide council for Birmingham.
Alabama, but in different sections small groups of
public-spirited citizcns have been banded together
in advisory councils. \Vhen more of these small
councils have been organized —— and one staff
worker devotes all her time to setting them up—
a city-wide council will bc formed.

ls Permanent Federal Aid for Public
Recreation Desirable?

This debatable question was prcsented by C. E.
Brcwer. Commissioner of Recreation of Detroit,
who prefaced his remarks by saying: “Before

anyone can answer this question the following
questions should first be answered: What is the
future of America? Is there to be a new United
States? Will there be conflicts between reforni
and recovery, and between the new and old con—
cepts of governmcnt? \Vho and what will be the
controlling element in our national thought? Will
it be the farm element so strong in the early
days of the Republic? Will it be the era of the
industrialist which lasted well into the twentieth
century, or the financial dynasty which went to
smash during the past depression? Will it be one
of social values and social security as recently an-
nounced by the President? The road is rocky and
progress will be slow. It is yet too early to pre-
dict what the future holds.”

In view of the uncertainty .of the future Mr.
Brewer urged that recreation executives proceed
with caution in advocating radiCal changes in the
administration and financing of recreation, but be
prepared to take advantage of every opportunity
offered to strengthen the position of public rec-
reation in the public mind.

Permanent federal aid for public recreation,
Mr. Brewer pointed out, would bring many
changes in policies, activities and administration
involving both strength and weakness. He raised
six questions, stated in very positive terms, for the
purpose of pointing out their extremely contro-
versial nature, which would have to be considered
before any final decision could be reached:

(1) What would be the form of administra-
tion, the strong centralized type of administration
from \Vashington or through the states? The dan-
gers of bureaucratic control are many; on the
other hand, the possibilities of lax administration
in some states is no idle apprehension.

(2) What should be the amount of money ap-
propriated and what the source of financial sup-
port? From a revenue tax. tariff, sales tax, in'
come tax, per capita tax, federal fines? Could the
appropriation be stabilized or would .it be con-
trolled by the whim of the political party in power?

(3) If money were made available, on what
basis should it be allotted? According to popula-
tion? Financial (condition of the community?
Social needs? Abscnce of récreation facilities and
efficient recreation program? Or according to
votes cast for the political party in power, or as a
pork barrel proposition?

(4) What of the personnel chosen by the fed-
eral govcrnment to administer the program?
Would they be political appointecs or people

492 FVHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET

selected for their ability, social viewpoint, past ex-
perience? Or would they be selected from the
federal eligibility list?

(5) Should the federal government pay all the
costs of local recreation activities or should it
subsidize only certain activities? If so, what
should these activities be? Or should there be’an
outright grant of money to be used as a com-
munity deems advisable? (Obviously a grant made
on the basis of activities would precipitate many
wordy battles over boondoggling!)

(6) \Vhat would be the effect of federal grants
on the many well operated recreation systems?
would not the local government decide to “let
Uncle Sam do it"? \Vould the recreation execu-
tive have the same support from the local gov-
ermnent and community groups he now receives?

Mr. Brewer suggested there might be a middle
road which public recreationcould travel through
the maze of changes now taking place in our social
structure, but this path cannot be determined until
it is known what the re—alignments in govern-
ment are to be. There are many confiicting in-
terests between farmer and industrialist, and there
are racial and religious differences. The re-align—
ment of political parties, if it happens, will be
along the line of conservatism on one side and
new social thought on the other. Whether there
will be permanent aid for public recreation will
depend on which party is to control. If present
government control is to continue it may be advis—
.able to advocate permanent federal aid. There
should first be set up, however, an efficient system
of administration. The plan of organization for
such a system, Mr. Brewer suggests, might in—
clude the appointment of a secretary of public
recreation in the President’s cabinet who would
have supervision of all recreational uses 'of na-
tional forests and parks, public buildings, water-
ways, and other government property. He should
have power to organize activities in communities
without recreation activities; to conduct research
and disseminate information; to appoint assist-
ants and have necessary state or regional super-
visor of recreation. The secretary of public rec-
reation should be given federal funds under the
budget system (possibly $75,000,000) to supple—
ment, but not supplant, present local organizations
and employees. These funds should be expended
in communities not capable of providing adequate
recreational facilities for themselves.

Mr. Brewer expressed the belief that under
such a plan there will be greater need than ever

before for the services of the National Recrea-
tion Association. The Rockefeller Institute and
similar scientific bodies, he pointed out, continue
to do magnificent work though the federal gov-
ernment has provided large sums for help in sci—
entific reSearch. Similarly, he feels, the Associa—
tion could do a larger job if the government
should grant money for public recreation.

The discussion showed a division of opinion.
A few of the executives hoped there would some
day be a department in \Vashington which would
concern itself with the promotion of recreation,
leaving it to the local community to conduct the
program. One executive felt there might be a de-
partment of education and recreation. On the
other hand, others felt that while the federal gov-
ermnent is likely to be involved in much heavier
expenditures for recreation, it is a little dangerous
to crystallize opinion as yet about the next step in
administrative responsibility.

Nash Higgins. Superintendent of Public Rec—
reation, Tampa, Florida, served as chairman of
the first afternoon session which dealt with prob-
lems of the utilization by recreation departments
of federal government spending in the park and
recreation movement, the best use of ERA work-
ers in recreation systems, and the procedures to
follow in securing P\\'A money for the construc-
tion of recreation facilities.

Tam Deering, Director of Recreation, Cincin—
nati. Ohio. introducing the subject, characterized
it as a problem of leadership, training and super-
vision which will be solved when two questions
are answered: (I) “7 hat is the greatest need of
the local community in the field of parks and rec-
rcation facilities? Have we the supervision, the
leadership, that can intelligently construct the

-facility and give guidance to the activity to meet

1

the need?

The first step in the construction of facilities is
the intelligent analysis of the area and facilities
needed in the community. The second is their
acquisition by purchase, transfer or gift. The
third step lies in making certain of good design.
(In doing this it is not absolutely necessary to
have a landscape architect in the department; the
services of an expert in this line may often be
borrowed from other city departments or secured
on a contingent fee basis.) The fourth step is the

proper personnel of the project and the tech-
nicians concerned.

 

WHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET 493

Local financing of a project may be secured if
the project is right, and it is a matter of getting the
assistance of the local subdivision or of existing
. organizations or of securing a gift of money. The
working out of the problem in, any community is
a matter of cooperation with the different politi—
- cal subdivisions and of energetic efforts to schre
' by gift the necessary money.

In considering the work program itself it is '

especially important to take into account the nega-
tive attitudes, which include the point of view
that the project is a made work program, useless,
but the only way to provide food and shelter for
the workers, and that work for work’s sake is im-
portant—the old Puritanical attitude. There is,
too, the negative attitude that idle men endanger
our institutions and that
they mean unemployment,
communism, and so on. The

our nation’s responsibility for the work and se-
curity of all men. Anyway, you have got to .swal-
low the stuff and it is more sensible to digest it
than it is to let it be a brown taste in your mouth.”

In discussing procedures to follow in schring
the fUnds needed to obtain PWA money for the
development of recreation facilities, Mr. Deering
expressed the opinion that it is a matter of get-
ting ready for a program some months or even a

year hence. The first step is to visit the state or _

local PVVA administrator and learn how detailed

plans must be. Then comes the procedUre of get— -

ting landscape architects, engineers, surveyors and
estimators, making up the necessary projects and
working out all the necessary details. It is a dif-

, ficult and complicated job, and a project may be

sent back several times be-
fore it is accepted, so it is
well to be making plans at

fourth negative attitude is
that this is only a temporary
recourse and we shall soon
go back to the normal way
of doing things. And fifth,
there is the attitude that
this program is a bother,
displacing the regular bud-
get and employees and sub-
stituting in efficiency.
There are, on the other

IIl believe that every essential facility
we can imagine can be constructed,
every essential recreation area ac- '
quiredI and every essential public
service in the field of leisure time can
be undertakenI if we will now malte

sufficiently broad plans. The only really

dangerous elements in this wor s pro-
gram are our unpreparedness, our
lazinessI our mental storehouse of an-
tiquated attitudesI our incapacity to
analyse the situation, to interpret the
needsI to master all the phases of the
problem and to cooperate with the

once for submission to the
PVVA administrator e v e n
though the renewal of this
p r o g r a 111. may be some
months away.

Should the Distinction Be-
tween Education and Recre-
ation Set Up by the Federal

Officials in Charge of Emer-
gency School Funds in Cer-

hand, constructive positive
attitudes—( I) that the pre-
sent program offers an op—
portunity for the physical
and mental rehabilitation of men; (2) that there
are intrinsic values to be gotten from the program
and that it means facilities constructed and facili-
ties enlarged. There is also the attitude that the
present program aftords an opportunity for dis-
covering and testing out the things we have long
wanted to do; to do research; to reorganize de—
partments ; to relate to the total picture our coun-
cils, and to do our planning for the futUre. Finally,
as a constructive broad attitude, may be enumer—
ated the possibilities and opportunities for the per-
manent extension of essential public services, look—
ing at it as a new development .in the field of
social service that is essential to the community
rather than a tcmporary expedient.

“Phillips Brooks on seeing for the first time a

new born baby is said to have made the ejacula-.

tion, ‘What will this child see in his lifetime?’ So
may we say of this, the new born conception of

 

tain States Be Brolten Down?

major forces involved."

\V. C. Averill, Jr., Rec-

reation Director, State

Emergency \Velfare Relief Commission, Lansing,
Michigan, suggested two approaches to this sub—
ject. One from the standpoint of administration,
the other from the point of view of activities, In
the State Office in Michigan the Recreation Divi—.
sion is theorctically a part of the Emergency Edu—
cation Department, but actually, through the vision
and understanding of the Emergency Education
Director, a separate and distinct unit with its own
funds and program. By having a distinction of
this kind in the State Office it has been possible
to avoid submerging the recreation program in the
educational program; thus decreasing its import-
ance, and the plan has permitted of a flexible pro—
gram which could be organizcd to meet the in—
dividual needs of each community. “A recreation

program cannot be confined," said Mr. Averill, “to '

the limits of the educational set-up either in time
or season, andthis in itself justifies a distinction.”

494 WHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET

Mr. Averill pointed out other
reasons why he believed there
should be a distinction between
recreation and education from the
standpoint of administration. “Rec-
reation by its very nature if it is
to reach its highest form will not
permit becoming traditionalized,
standardized and stereotyped as is
the case with the educational system. Nor will it
permit being carved or squeezed to conform to
such a system.

The second approach is from the standpoint of
activity and here there are difficulties in trying to
make the distinction as to where the two func-
tions begin and end. Mr. Averill questioned
whether the federal or state government could
set up a distinction and have it work. The two
fields overlap considerably and constantly, making
it necessary for the directors of both to work in
harmony. Crafts, music and drama may be in-
cluded either as a matter of education or of
recreation.

Tf education is the primary motive, learning is
the all important factor, and pleasure and relaxa-
tion may or may not be present, but they are of
secondary importance. If recreation is the primary
motive, then the persons must find pleasurable re-
laxation, joy and re—creation of his-faculties in
the activity, and while he is likely to learn some-
thing, that is of secondary importance. In the
Michigan \NPA program the following distinc—
tion was made: Educational activities are those
activities in which persons engage for the purpose
of deriving some financial or personal advantage
to themselves either in promotion, making them—
selves more efficient in their work, or learning
something in order to make a living. Recrea—
tional activities are those activities in which a per-
son engages for the pleasure he gets out of them.

Miss Irma Ringe, representing the Works
Progress Administration. said she would be loath
to draw a distinction between recreation and edu—
cation because each needs the other, and she
should dislike to see recreation interpreted as a
baseball game and education as a stereotyped, for-
malized class. The difficulty in each state, as far
as confirming the items to one group or the other,
is essentially an administrative one. Recreation,
in Miss Ringe's opinion, is a function in itself—
a community function and one which the com—
munity must think through. Like education it
touches the life of everyone.

"If there is to be any distinc- *
tion at all between recrea-
tion and education it must
come from the individual who
is participating in the activ-
ity. because after all he alone
can decide whether that ac-
tivity is of a recreational or
educational nature to him."

Some of the emergency educa-
tion directors, Miss Ringe pointed
out, have at the same time been the
emergency recreation directors, and
that combination of functions has
been a fortunate one. In some
places it has meant the opening of
schools never before opened to the
public at night, for both young and
old, with activities ranging from literary classes
to the arts and crafts. “There are viewpoints on
both sides of the question,” said Miss Ringe, “and
it is something we are going to have to think
through from the beginning to the end 'because
education and recreation are bound up together
both in the activities program and in the philoso—
phy of recreation. The facilities of recreation are
bound up with our park departments, our public
housing, with every phase of life because recrea—
tion in fulfilling a leisure time need is fulfilling a
need of life. That is why a definite decision is
impossible now.

How Best May Local Communities Train SERA and ‘
FERA Workers for Community Recreation Ser-
vice? What Is the Best Way of Presenting
Recreation Material to This Group?

Mrs. Rolla Southworth, Recreation Director,
Florida Emergency Relief Administration, Jack-
sonville, explained that in working out a plan for
training the workers under her supervision she
found it necessary in the rural communities of
Florida to map out a way to train not only the
workers but the communities. The first thing it
was necessary to agree upon was the philosophy
for recreation acceptable to all the staff. It was
decided that as a philosophy for recreation the
workers would think in terms of an abundant life
for all; no matter how simple life might be it
could be abundant with health, education, employ-
ment. recreation, spiritual values as the things es-
sential in all lives.

One training institute for the emergency work-
ers was held last year at the.Florida State College
for \Vomen which practically financed this train-
ing. Another will be held this year. Last sum-
mer the Physical Education Department put on

,some courses in recreational leadership which had

never before been given. The other institute was
held at Bethune-Cookman College, one of the fin—

 

WHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET 495

est colored schools in the South. Under the W PA
camps are being planned for young people from
sixteen to twenty-five, one of which is to be held
at Bethune—Cookman College. The emphasis in
these camps will be on recreational leadership.

In addition to these state-wide institutes de-
scribed, institutes are being held each district di—
rector mapping out the program he 'feels needed
in that particular area. In one district, for ex-
ample, where the people are devoted church-goers
and the social life is centered largely around the
churches, the district director trained 500 young
people in social recreation including “singing
games.”

In addition to the institutes, weekly staff meet-
ings are being held in practically every district.
Here again the district directors use their initia—
tive. One director had a party each month for all
her county directors, each director being held re-
sponsible for planning the activities of a particu-
lar party and the program for the next month.

.\lrs. Southworth conducts an exchange bureau
to which the different directors contribute. As
there are practically no libraries in Florida. this
is not a simple matter.

There are nine members on Mrs. Southworth’s
immediate staff and a county director for practi—
cally every county with workers in the individual
community. In all there are about 400 people on
the state staff. Mrs. Southworth commented on
the high caliber of many of the emergency work-
ers whom she has fotmd. “The people who are
given us are, of course, good and bad. There are
difficulties involved when so many people-are
handed us, but nowadays, with college people liv-
ing in the most remote communities, you will find
many who have had at least a year of college
training. These people are recreation-minded, and
if you start with a group like that and then plan
wisely in your institutes and your training you
can really go places and do things. If fifteen or
twenty people were given me and three—quarters
of them were faiIUres, I should feel that I had
had something to do with their failure.”

What Should Be the Relationship Between State

Emergency Recreation Programs and Locally
Established Recreation Programs?

Garrett G. Eppley, State Director of Recrea— .

tion, Emergency Education Division, Governor’s

Commission on Unemployment Relief, Indianapo-
lis, Indiana, opening the discussion of this subject,
made the following suggestions. In states where
state directors have not been established it might
well be advisable forrthe local recreation directors
to make contacts with the state administrator of
W’PA in an effort to secure a competent state rec—
reation staff which understands the conditions ex—
isting locally in the various recreation depart—
ments. The state staff should understand the ex-
isting emergency which has resulted in reduced
personnel, reduced funds for supplies and eQuip—
ment, lowered receipts from activities, and less
financial assistance from other agencies—problems
which the local recreation department must con-
front in spite of increased demands upon it. If
the state staff understands these conditions, it can
the more easily meet the needs of local departments.

The emergenCy recreation program as outlined
by the state should supplement the program of the
local department. If supervisors are appointed
by the state they should serve as assistants to
local recreation executives.

In cities where summer programs alone are tax
supported the summer recreation director should
have as his assistant the local \VPA recreation
supervisor. During the winter months a commit—
tee should function with the local summer recrea-
tion director serving in an advisory capacity or at
least as a committee member.

With financial assistance given the state recre-
ation department can insist on an efficient program
in the local recreation department. Such insistence
will be helpful to the local director and will often
prevent interference with his program in his own
city. The state department through W PA can
supply personnel, assist in the making of game
supplies and equipment, with the promotion of
training courses, and with contacts with various
state and governmental agencies. , ’

The local recreation department can assist the
state program with advice from its experience in
the field, by volunteer work in neighboring towns,
by helping'in training courses, and by giving
credit to the state \VPA for assistance secured.

V. K. Brown, Chief, Recreation Division, Chi-
cago Park District, presided over the second half
of the afternoon session which dealt largely with
problems created by unemployment and general
ecenomic conditions.

496 PVHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET

The Probable 'Reac’rion on the Ci’ry Recrea’rion De-
parfmeri’rs Affer ’rhe Federal Government Wifh-
draws Funds for Recreation Activities. What
Can Recrea’rion Sys’rems Do ’ro Plan in
Advance for 'l’he Replacing of ERA
Recrea’rion Workers When Their

Services Are Discon’rinued?

Charles.H. English, Executive Secretary, Play-
grounds and Recreation Association of Philadel—
phia, pointed out that the past few years have been
a period of considerable confusion. Recreation
workers have not known frequently from one
week to the next what was going to happen, and
this has militated against the sort of program they
have wanted to put on. They faced criticism from
their communities and it was exceedingly import-
ant that they have the right kind of a staff pro—
perly trained in order that their services might be
continuous. “Breaking faith with the groups we
were serving was one of the most damaging of
our liabilities.” It was natural for recreation de-
partments with budgets reduced to accept the gifts
offered by ERA programs in the way of workers
to fill vacancies on the staff. In some instances,
under pressure from state administrations to find
outlets for large numbers of pe0ple, recreation
executives overmanned their departments when
more workers were assigned than were really
needed for the job. Another difficulty was the re—
sentment on the part of the old staff that the new
workers were in some instances receiving more
salary for the time spent than were the old workers.

The plan followed by one executive contains
suggestions for future planning. This executive
put the ERA workers added'to his staff on new
projects without augmenting the old program.
Thus he avoided the conflict between new and old
staff members and laid a foundation for the
future. New avenues of expression, new types of
projects which are possible within the wide range
of the recreation field, might well be developed by
the new workers. Many difficulties have been
created by the fact that executives have tried to
carry 0n the same old program with the new
workers and have not had the imagination to use
them for new fields of work. To do this, how—
ever, we must have created a desire for addi-
tional community services; must have broadened
the program so that through these new activities
we have recruited people other than the groups
we have served in the past.

Some executives are greatly concerned lest their
communities will not support, after federal funds
have been withdrawn, the new facilities which
have been created through WPA and other gov-
ernmental programs. “Isn’t this new equipment
one of the finest things which has come out of all
this effort?” Mr. English asked. “Since we have
so greatly increased our facilities do you think for
a single minute the public is going to let these
facilities deteriorate without use?” People are
complaining about taxes. It may be, Mr. English
suggested, that a system of low fees for the use
of facilities, small enough to be within the reach
of everyone, may be the next step.

Many good things have come out of this ex-
perience, among them community councils and
citizens councils, many of which have been or-
ganized during the depression. The council is one
of the best avenues for continuing services. These
groups ought to be utilized and strengthened and
the same care should be given to them as to other
parts of .the program. Permanent records can
come out of this experience such as the “Leisure
Hobby Series” published by the Chicago Park
District and the bulletins which have been issued
by many state emergency relief administrations.

“We have been creating self-sufficiency, self-
dependency, through such activities as hobbies in
which people find their own leadership and main-
tain their own activities. That points to the type
of prOgram we must consider, and it is time for
us to think about it right now and to set aside a
certain part of our schedule to think out the
problem of what to do after federal support is
gonef’

Mr. Brown asked the question whether we are
absolutely correct in our assumption that a leader
is necessary for every activity. “It really isn’t,”
he said. “In every community aren’t there thou-
sands of successful activities going on for which
no instructor is paid? Aren’t there organizations
in churches and in community groups of all kinds
in which there is no paid staff? Isn't there a pos-
sibility that our thinking of leadership has been
of the top sergeant type of leadership when we
should have been thinking in terms of general
staff leadership organized out of the group itself?
Ought'n’t we to be considering an entirely new
type of leadership which is needed—the type
which energizes and makes efficient forces within
a community? These are some of the things we
should be thinking about so the evil day doesn’t
come on us too suddenly with the cessation of

     

accustomed.”

l
. Ought Recreationl Adult Education and Special

Programs for Unemployed Youth Be Unified
Under One Administration and If SoI
How Should This Be Done?

Josephine Randall, Superintendent. Recreation
Commission, San Francisco. opening the discussion
of this question, called attention to the fact that
since 1929 more than 12,000,000 boys and girls
have left school——a population larger than Can-
ada; larger than our eleven western states; as
large as Norway, Sweden and Denmark together.
“Add to this vast number,” she said, “the unem-
ployed adult population. And add to these the
great number of leisure hours due to shorter
working days for which occupation must be found,
and you have three main phases of the problem—-
education. occupation and recreation in its broad-
est interpretation. Each community
has its own special needs and there-
fore all programs should be flexi-
ble enough to change as the needs
change.”

The great amount of work to be
done in every community makes it
necessary to eliminate duplications
and so to coordinate leisure time activities that
there are no gaps and weak spots in the com-
munity program as a whole.

Miss Randall pointed out that while the thing
has been slowly coming upon us, the climax came
so suddenly that it has caught us unprepared.
Communities are not ready for the' overwhelming
demands made upon them and therefore it is ex-
tremely important that a determination of the
functions of all agencies working in the leisure
time field be reached and that facilities and re-
sources of all be used to capacity. Every com-
munity must understand the real meaning of the
word “recreation” in order to develop a com-
munity program of leisure time on the basis of
individual needs.

The program naturally divides itself into edu-
cation and recreation and the determination of the

functions of each. “Education,” she said, “trains .

for work and for play in every known field and
for every age through formal, organized class
work, while recreation offers the opportunity for
eXperience in all types of leisure time pursuits
and for all ages.”

the thing to which the community has grown

"Through Education the indi-
vidual is trained to use his
free time constructively, and
through Recreation he is of-
tered the opportunity to
make use of his training."

WHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET 497

During the depression recreation departments
have been able to carry on many interesting ex-
periments. A group of women met to learn to
talk French. They didn’t want to study French.
They were all busy women doing their own house-
work and they did not want to go out of their
neighborhoods, but they thought it would be fun
to learn how to pronounce certain French words.
They met regularly with an educated French
woman who came through the SERA recreation
project. The group was very informal and was
certainly recreational.

Travel groups have developed in the same way,
and with the leadership available through the
emergency program many forms of leisure time
activities have emerged which had not been previ-
ously considered as recreation activities. It seems
logical, therefore, that through a system of pub-
lic education formal teaching and training in all
subjects and for all ages may be offered as gen-
eral education and vocational training, and that
through a system of public recre-
ation avocational activities of all
types and for all ages may be of-
fered. Very close cooperation be-

sary in order that the training
given for leisure time occupation
and the provision made for leisure
time activities be similar in scope and that the one
supplement the other. If an intelligent community
plan is worked out and the program is based on
a knowledge of facts, then the needs of both
youth and adults may be met.

Miss Randall told of a plan in successful opera-
tion in San Francisco since 1930 involving an ex-
ecutive coordinating council composed of the
superintendent of schools, superintendent of rec-
reation, past chairman, chief probation officer and
past chairman, chief of police, director of public
health, director of community welfare, director of
emergency relief, and supervisor of public dance
halls. In two districts of the city district coor-
dinating councils have been functioning,for over
a year. A third conncil is now being organized
and in time there will be one district council in
each logical district of the city—probably twelve
in number. These district councils are composed
of the school principal, recreation director at
large, probation oflicer, police captain, visiting

'nurse, and representatives from the other depart-

ments named on the executive council. The coun-
cils study“ the problems and needs of their own

tween the two departments is neces-

498 WHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET

districts and formulate plans for correction, ad-
justment and betterment. This close cooperation
between neighborhood agencies has brought about
many splendid results in the neighborhood.

What Special Techniques Are Essential for Dealing
with Those Who Have Come Out of Our Schools
and Colleges During the Past Five Years and
Who Have Not Found Employment? Will
Standards of Preparation and Compensa-
tion for Recreation Workers Be Lowered
Because So Many Emergency Relief
Worl<ers Have Taken Up Recrea-

tion Service? It So' What
Can Be Done?

A. 0. Anderson, Director, Health, Physical
Education and Recreation, Public Schools, Kan-
sas City, Missouri, said that unemployed educated
youth offer a new problem with which we have
not previously had to cope. “It is a question in
my mind,” he said, “just how much of new tech-
niques are needed in handling a group of this
kind. It is different from the average group of
youngsters and the average group of adults, and
some special consideration should be given them.
They are supposed to be a group of thinkers, and
thati- they are accepted as a general statement.
They are supposed to be leaders and I believe
they are. They have been to college and there
they have certainly built up more of the qualifica-
tions that go to make up a leader. They have
been exposed not only to education ‘but to the
extra-curricular activities that go with education.

A great many of this group are not yet through ‘

college, and there are others who are either
through college or who cannot get away and who
should be considered in our plans.”

Mr. Anderson suggested that when we ap-
proach this group we ought to challenge their
minds with something worth while from their
point of view. The activity type of leadership
may not get very far with this group; it takes
something of a leadership with more thinking.
They might well be used on committees, and to
help as leaders in athletics and other activities.
Members of this group are able to go ahead with
some type of education, recreation or otherwise,
because they have so recently been in contact with
educational institutions. A challenging recreation
program would enlist them. Such a program
might be tied up with the school, and the first
step should be the provision of the most intelli-

gent leadership possible, leadership as similar as
possible to that of the college professors‘ with
whom they have been in contact. Then they
should be called on to sit in committees and help
develop their own program.

Mr. Anderson divided into two parts the ques-
tion whether the addition of a large number of
relief workers to the staff will lower standards
and salaries in the recreation field. “It may lower
standards temporarily,” he said, “as it has done in
education. There are still boards of education and
of recreation who are delighted to secure work-
ers at $50 or $60 a month. After a while they
are going to realize that the well trained indi-
vidual who is well paid is the one who will get
results.” Mr. Anderson’s second point was that
there aren’t enough workers in America, even
with all the relief workers, to do the job. He
compared the present situation to that which ex-
isted when the country needed a larger number of
common laborers. Organized labor in all proba-
bility did not resent having foreigners come in to
do the ditch digging. They were at the base of
the pyramid and as they did the unskilled work
the other workers were set up in the pyramid.
That may be the experience in the recreation
field.

“I think that these emergency relief workers
have stimulated our trained workers as nothing
has ever done. In time and in the near future,
though there will be setbacks, the communities
are going to recognize the importance of this
work and we are going to need more trained rec-
reation workers; they will be paid more and
standards will have to be high. People are not
going to stand for a let-down in this thing which
has been started; they are going to demand more
and more of it, and it is going to take trained
leadership.”

What Ways Have Been Discovered During the
Emergency Period for Increasing the Amount of

Money Available for Recreation Through
Tax Funds and Through Charges?

There are three generally accepted methods of
securing money for the operation of parks and
recreation systems, R. S. Marshall, Superintendent
of Parks and Recreation of Birmingham, Ala-
bama, stated. (I) the mill tax, which, in his
opinion, is the most satisfactory method; (2) ap-
propriations from city governments—and during
the past few years the city fathers have cut recre-

WHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET .499

ation budgets as much as half if not more, though
there is now an encouraging tendency to restore
some of the cuts; (3) the collection of fees to aid
in financing recreation activities—a method recre-
ation executives have generally felt undesirable
except in the case of such facilities as golf courses,

I pools and other facilities where a specialized serv-
i ice is given and it is not unjust to ask people to

i

pay a small fee for their operation. Mr. Marshall

= suggested that with the greatly increased facilities
I available through federal government expendi—

tures it may be necessary to do more charging in
the future. In Birmingham the Recreation De-
partment has recently put on a large number of
dramatic productions, baseball games and similar
activities for which a small admission fee was
charged. The plan was successful, and people
did not object to paying a 10 or 15 cent charge.
The money received in this way helped greatly in
paying the cost of the activities.

Last summer the Park and Recreation Board
was urged to put on a major dramatic production
built around a story of colored life and presented
by colored people. The Board presented a pageant
and charged a small admission fee hoping to re-
ceive $200 or $300. Appeals were made to work-

_ ers in colored districts and t0.colored leaders to

support the project. They were told that any
money left after expenses were paid would be
used to equip playgrounds and community centers
for colored citizens. Nine thousand people at-
tended the pageant paying a charge of 25 or 35
cents, and about $1,000 was cleared. No one com-
plained about the charge. Mr. Marshall suggested
that during this period of readjustment, until it is
possible to build up budgets through the infiuence
of community councils and other means, the fee
system may be a temporary way of helping to
carry through the recreation program.

In the discussion which followed V. K. Brown
spoke of the importance of improving techniques
and of recording successful experiences on paper
so that they will be available for all. Chicago is
experimenting with SatUrday
morning radio hours the cost
of which is practically nothing
as the radio station gives the
time. At this particular season
the managers and coaches of a
number of football teams are
giving definite instruction to
boys 0n the game of football.

Speaking of the new work-

llHe who knows good books and reads
them: who has an appreciation of
what is fine in painting and music:
who finds God's sunlight on the
hills more alluring than the white
lights of the crowded thoroughfare.
has something which fortifies him
against the monotony of toil; he

has the key to the abundant life."
—William Mather Lewis.

ers who are entering the field through the emer-
gency agencies Mr. Brown said: “In my organiza-
tion those _of us who think we really know a great
deal about our jobs are put on our toes right now
by the newcomers. As far as I am concerned, I
am worried that some young fellow who doesn’t
think, as I do, that he knows all about it, will
go by me! He has too many brain cells working
at this job, and some of the newcomers are giving
us a tremendous run for our money.

The problem of financing the new activities
made available through emergency agencies cre-
ated much discussion. Joseph F. Suttner, Director
of Recreation and Parks, Buffalo, New York,
cited Buffalo additions to facilities, including
twelve new playgrounds, with plans for thirty
more, a large stadium with a recreation field, and
seven swimming pools—“all at a tremendous cost
and for the future at a tremendous upkeep.”
“Today,” Mr. Suttner said, “we are getting along
but what are we going to do after federal aid is
removed? Fees would only partially support the
facilities and volunteers are not the whole answer
to the problem. How will the taxpayer feel when
he has to dig in his own pocket to pay the increas-
ed taxes?”

A number of suggestions were offered. Mr.
Marshall reported that when the question of main-
taining three new community buildings came up
in Birmingham one member of the Recreation
Board suggested that a sign might be put on the
door of each building saying, “The city commis-
sion did not give us enough money to finance this.”
“If things should come to such a pass,” said Mr.
l\‘larshall, “I venture to say there would be
260,000 taxpayers talking to the city commission.”

K. Mark Cowen, Director of Recreation, Ro-
anoke, Virginia, expressed it as his opinion that
under the right type of leadership facilities built
will be a real investment and suggested that money
saved from the decrease in delinquency which
would accompany the use of the facilities might
help finance them.

Alfred McDonald, Di rector
of Parks, Wichita, Kansas,
pointed out the possibility of
constructing new facilities in
such a way that the cost of
maintaining them will not be
so great. Many economies
may be effected. In Wichita,
for example, the Park Depart-

(Continued on page 520)

The Enlarged Recreation Service.

 

Department of Forests and lVatrrs, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

past activities of the National Park Service,

its relationship to the states, what we have
been doing in the last few years and what we think
the future has for those of us who are immensely
interested in the social well-being of this country
in the form of recreation.

First, we believe strongly in conservation, con-
servation being interpreted as a wise use of our
land, our resources and our time. We believe that
we must not only plan the proper use of our lands
and put them into their best use, but that we must
also plan for their proper use after they have been
set aside in accordance with a well-worked out
plan.

With this as a background, I want to make it
clear that we do not set ourselves up as the au-
thority to do all the planning and to tell which
land should be used for this purpose and which
for that. We believe that the federal govern—

500

I WANT to give you a brief picture tonight of the

i of the
National

Parks '

By
CONRAD L. WIRIH

Assistant Director

National Park Service

ment and the states have
adequately recognized that
and are working toward
the objective of central
planning boards which will take technical advice
from all services, such as the National Park Serv—
ice, the Forest Service, and the Bureau of Agri-

ocultural Development from the national stand-

point, and the various commissions and depart-
ments from the states, and will turn out a plan of
proper land use. In that plan will fit very defi-
nitely the recreation program.

What Is the National Park Service?

The l'ational Park Service is a young bureau
of the government. It was created in 1916 for
the purpose of setting aside for the enjoyment of
the people for all time those scenic areas and his-
torical areas of the United States that should be
preserved. In setting aside these areas and in
establishing the National Park Service Congress
recognized the need of recreation. It set aside an
agency to administer and to represent the federal
government on general recreation problems of the

ENLARGED RECREATION SERVICE OF THE NATIONAL PARKS 501

nation. The national parks form only a very small
part of the recreational problem of the country.
This service looks to preservation of those na—
tionally important scenic areas which we all wish
to keep. for all time.

Due to the kind of land involved, the recreation
derived from the land set aside as national parks
must necessarily be what we call extensive recre-
ation. There are far more people who use the
municipal parks and playgrounds than use the ex-
tensive type of recreation as found in the na-
tional parks. _

In 1933 when we entered into an emergency
period as declared by Congress, in which money
was appropriated, the National Park Service was
called upon to administer the development of rec-
reational areas through the CCC program. Many
of the states at that time had park systems, some
of which contained only one or two areas with
nobody directly at the head. But at that time
there were about 1,500,000 acres of land devoted
to state parks or to that type of extensive recre-
ation that is contained in state parks, exclusive of
about 2,000,000 acres set aside in the Catskill and
Adirondack park. Since that time there has been
added over 600,000 acres of land to this system.

Now that amount of land is small compared
with the federal setup—I mean not only the na-
tional parks but the enormous amount of land
that remained in public domain in the forest
areas. Nevertheless, 90 per cent of all that land,
600,000 acres, was added to the park system
along a well-defined plan and was°added through
donations, through people who believed in the use
of large wooded areas for extensive recreation.
The turning over of 600,000 acres in a period of
two years of the economic depression is, I think,
a remarkable accomplishment. It speaks well for
the American people as a whole that they did not
lose track of an essential, even though they might
have forgotten it for the time being. When it was
brought to their attention they responded to the
call.

But that is not nearly enough land. In our re—
port to the National Resources Board—the Na-
tional Park Service was requested to handle that
part of the National Resources Board pertaining
to recreation a committee was set up and through
the assistance of your Association, Mr. L. H.
Weir was given to us to help with the program.
We are greatly indebted to the Association for
that service in addition to a number of others. In
our report we roughly estimated that the state

 

park systems should eventually be around twelve
to fifteen million acres.

The state park standards as defined by the Na-
tional Resources Committee deal with two gen-
eral types of areas: one, those scenic areas that
are set aside with a limited amount of intensive
recreation. Only that part of extensive recrea-
tion is permitted on these areas which will not
interfere with the natural settings. That should
be supplemented by those areas that can be used
for more or less extensive recreation such as
group camps, cottages for. low income group peo-
ple within distanceof the city. Illinois has rapidly

been pushing forward in park and recreation ’

work throughout the state. \Ve have more camps
now working on recreation development in the
State of Illinois than any other state in the Union,
and I may add they would take far more if we
had more to give them.

When the land program of the FERA was set
up, the National Park Service was called upon to
aid in the study of how to acquire the so-called
submarginal land which might be used to provide
within close proximity of the larger cities recre-
ational areas for those of the low income and un-
derprivileged groups. Our thought was to secure
land within fifty miles of the largest cities with
easy access by road, railroad and street car. These
areas would contain water facilities, either arti-
ficial or natural, which could be used for recre-
ational purposes, with camps so constructed as to
house children so they would have the advantages
of open air sleeping facilities. It was necessary
to secure the cooperation of the states in this
program and to guarantee the upkeep and main-
tenance after development. \Ve also had to make
contacts with local social and civic agencies sug-
gesting that we would buy 4,000 or 5,000 acres
for this purpose and that'the money they were.
spending to maintain their own small areas, which
were expensive and which they were having dif-
ficulty to maintain, be combined with the other
project to make possible the larger unit. This we
believed would be less costly and far more satis-
factory. We -were able to set up about fifty-six
of these projects. They have, I am sorry to say,
been cut down to forty—five because of financial
difficulties.

This, I believe, is one of the most important
things we have to look into now. We must, too,
give very serious thought to getting our children
out into such camps as are being maintained in
the forest preserves surrounding Chicago. \Ve

502

must provide opportunity for people working in
our communities to take a vacation by going to a
cottage close to the city, but nevertheless in nat-
ural surroundings, where they may live at a very
reasonable rate. There are hundreds of pe0ple who
do not now have the opportunity to enjoy vacations.

So much for the recreation and demonstration
projects. We also have before the proper authori-
ties in Washington a request for funds for a gen-
eral recreation survey which will assist the states
and communities in studying the areas which are
available for recreational use and in discovering
means through which to secure, them.

Another thing that I think is going to have a
tremendous bearing on the future deveIOpment of
our children is the Youth Hostel movement. We
have made quite an extensive study of this and
have issued a report on what we believe to be the
proper procedure in this country; namely, Federal
assistance and aid in getting started but with local
administration throngh a central non-govern-
mental organization. By that I mean a coordina-
tion of those agencies interested in the movement
and a central organization which will control the
charter and develop a program through local
interests.-

What does the future hold for us in the main-
tenance and the administration of these areas?
\Ve do not believe that
the states asa whole fully
realize the problem that
is before them in the
maintenance and upkeep
of these areas. They are
going to realize it very
shortly, and they are go—
ing to appreciate the
benefits to be derived
from these areas through
proper administration,
upkeep, and direction.
we have been working
on that in the last few
years. We are now study-
ing the various laws of
the states from the stand-
point of administration,
the rules and regulations.
We do not propose to
say, “This is the law and
the only law, and the or-
ganization and the only
organization that' w i l l

.A . '— "av

.\

 

:‘i
.u

ENLARGED RECREATION SERVICE OF THE NATIONAL PARKS

work.” \Ve propose to point out what other
states are doing, the results they are getting from
this type of thing, and the difficulties that are in-
herent. Thus the states will make their own de-
cision as to the path they want to follow. We
feel that in following along those lines in point-
ing out the experiences of other states. and acting
as a sort of central distributing center for this
information, we are performing a real service.

Now we come to the direction of the use of
these areas. \Ve are working toward placing in
each one of our regions along with our technical
men on landscape, on engineering, on design, on
history, on wild life, on geology, or forestry, a
man well trained in recreational activities, to put
before the public the benefits of recreation and the
way in which they may get the best use out of
those facilities made available to them. \Ve have
not perfected that. As I say, the money became
available to develop facilities, and we have been
so busy with that that we really did not have time
to sit down and think out that other problem.
However, that problem is now before us and we
will produce a well—rounded staff and with a sys-
tem that will work.

All this work the National Park Service has
done. Some of it we feel is very good. “7 e really

(Continued on page 521)

C mirtesy Department of Forests om! W'sfers, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

What
To Do

Nature Recreation in Chicago

What
To See

By WILLIAM G. VINAL
Nature Specialist

National Recreation Association

5 EARLY as 1868 the State NatUral History
Society of Illinois assumed “the duty of
supplying Natural History materials to the

schools prepared to use them.” Today in the Chi-
cago district alone there are at least thirty-five
agencies disseminating natUral history in one form
or another. These various bureaus and societies.
like the Arabs, must have come silently in the
night and set up their institutions as Chicagoans
hardly know that they exist. \Vhen these facts
are marshalled into a table they present a very
potent power which contributes to the cultural
life of Chicago.

One can readily find a list of “the tallest build-
ings” and every sidewalker can point out the
world’s largest hotel or largest stockyard or larg-
est something else. Every loyal Chicagoan knows
that the Navy Pier is one mile long. Recreation
leaders can promptly say that there are 125 base-
ball diamonds in Park X, but asked for a pictUre
of their nature activities they are silent!

Nevertheless, Chicago has had its Babe Ruths
in Naturedom. There has been a succession of
noted trainers in nature leadership commencing
with H. H. Straight in 1883 who came to Cook
County Training School from

yet the whole family tree-hidden under a bushel!
- It has taken considerable coaxing and maneu-
vering to bring this information to light and yet it
ought to be useful not only in Chicago but to
leaders in general who are trying to organize their
own communities. It will not only provide source
material and experienced people to contact but
will indicate the trends of the time. The nature
services and opportunities of any locality do not
come about spontaneously but must be credited to
enthusiastic leaders for having been born. That
is not all: A favorable environment and nurturing
is necessary. The recreation leaders whci 'can vis-
ualize this picture most clearly will see an oppor—
tunity that parallels the other cultures—namely,
drama, art and music. To them let it be a hint
that they hang this “Bird’s-Eye View of Nature
Activities in Chicago” alongside of the old Farm—
er’s Almanac and contemplate it now and then in
planning the future.

Organizations Conducting Nature Activities ,

Public and Semi-Civic Organizations

1. Adler Planetarium
2. Board of Education, Department of Education

3. Board of Education, Bureau of
Recreation

Oswego Normal. In 1889 \Vil—
bur S. Jackman came from
Pittsburgh. Both were coach—
ed and schooled by that teacher
of teachers, Louis Agassiz, the
Great. Then came Ira B.
Meyers in about 1905 follow—
ed by Otis VV. Caldwell. In
191-1 the dynasty of Elliot R.
Downing commenced and to—
day 0. D. Franks is the chief
factum factotum. A noted

legion dating back to Agassiz,

As Dr. Vinal visits cities in connec-
tion with the institutes conducted by
the National Recreation Association.
he surveys briefly the activities of
each city along the line of nature
education and recreation. The infor-
mation he is discovering is of keen
interest to groups and individuals con-
cerned with the recreation programs
in the various cities, who have appar-

ently had little idea of the activities.

We are presenting Dr. Vinal's find-
ing in ChicagoI which. as host to the
Recreation Congress. may have
special interest to our readers.

12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

. Brooklield Zoo

Chicago Academy of Science

Chicago Public Library .

Chicago Recreation Commission p

Field Museum

Morton Arboretum

Museum of Science and I,
Industry l

. Shedd Aquarium

Park:

Chicago Park District |

Cook County Forest Preserves
Dunes Park of Indiana

Garfield
Humboldt

Lincoln
\Vashington II

503 l

504

NATURE RECREATION IN CHICAGO

Schools

19. Northwestern University

20. University of Chicago
Clubs

21. Chicago Ornithological
22. Chicago W'oman’s Club. Forest and Garden Class 32, Adult Education Council

23. Conservation Council

24. Friends of Our Native Landscape
25. The Geographic Society of Chicago
26. Illinois Audubon Society

Organization

Chicago Public
Library

 

Chicago Recreation
Commission

(1934)

 

Adult Education
Council of Chicago

 

Northwestern '
University

 

University of
Chicago

YMCA (1858)
and YWCA

Oiitdoor Art League

 

The Prairie Club
(1908)

Chicago Ornitho-
logical Club

Illinois Audubon
Society (1894)

Kennicott Club
(1929)

 

Izaak Walton Club

S. Chicago
Neighborhood House

The Friends of Our
Native Landscape

(1915)

Wild Flower Preser-
vation Society,
Illinois Chapter

(1913)

Moving Spirit

Carl B. Roden
\Vashington and
Michigan

Mayor Edward J.
Kelly

Dr. Philip L. Seman.
Chairman, 1634
Burnliam Bldg.

224 S. Michigan
A vcnue

Dr. W'aterman
Botany Department,

1400 Augusta Blvd.

0. D. Franks

School of Education

19 S. LaSalle

Mrs. W. D.

Richardson

4215 Prairie Avenue,

Chicago. Ill.

Eva S. Cowan.
Chairman, Nature

Study Committee
Room 757, 38 S.

Dearborn Street

Dr. R. M. Strong,

President

5840 Stony Island Ave.
Dr. C. W. G. Eifrig

President, Monroe
Ave.. River Forest

Tappan Gregory,

President

Lincoln Park
Museum

National Ofi‘ice

22 W'. N. Bank
Drive

M. F. Collins
8500 S. Mackinaw

Jens Jensen,

President
Ellison Bay, \Vis.

C. V. Neely,

Secretary
4939 Greenwood
Avenue

Popular Bird Study

27. Izaak \Valton League
28. Kennicott Club
29. Outdoor Art League

30. Prairie Club
31. Wild Flower Preservation Society

"5

Social Organisations

33. Hull House
34. Outing and Recreation Bureau

35. South Chicago Neighborhood House
36. Y. M. C. A.

Emphasis Remarks
Educational Book Readcrs Service Bureau. 21.000 slidcs
Approach on Natural Science loaned free to I
those holding library cards
Children’s clubs: Astronomy
in winter outdoor nature clubs I

in spring at Branch Libraries

Gives opinions on plans making a sur-
vey. published “Leisure Tinic Di-
rectory" and “Recreation in Clii-
cago.” 62 agencies

Clearing House for
information on rec-
reation in Chicago

Publishes “Educa-
tional Events”
in Chicago. -A
Directory of educa-

A source bureau for lectures. forums,
speakers and courses in Natural
Science. Sponsors Radio Program

 

Has been instrumental in cooperation
with Izaak \Valton League in hold-
iiig outdoor leadership courses in
Nature Guiding ' l

Extension and college courses in l
methods. University Elementary
School giVeS some emphasis to ele-
nientary science

Group activities for young men and
womcn in camping and outings

Meet once a month. About 35 years
old. Roadside Planting. Distribute
seeds to school children

Plant approach

tional opportunities I

 

Teachers Training

 

Recreational

Conservation

 

Encouragement of
love of nature
through outings

\Valks. canoeiiig, lectures, three per-

inanent camps, Junior Department.
About 1000 members '

 

Birds Meets in Creror Library once a month

(3rd Tuesday). Field trips, lectures

 

Meets at Lincoln Park Museum of
Natural Science '
Lectur‘e meetings

Meets at Lincoln Park Museum
Chicago Academy of Science

 

Outdoor Life
for Men

 

General interests. Evanston Club in-
stituted first training courses in
Nature Leadership

Perhaps typical of what is offered by
many social agencies

Pilgrimages, Roadside Planting,
Pamphlets, lectures, legislation,
A camp at Baileytown, Indiana

National publications available "

Conservation

 

Nature Clurbs for
children (1934)

Conservation

 

 

Protection of Native
Wild Flowers

Organization

Hull House
(1889)

 

 

The Geographic
Society of Chicago
(1898)

Outing and
Recreation
Bureau

 

 

Morton Arboretum
(1921 )

Conservation
Council

Field Museum of
Natural History

Shedd Aquarium
Adler Planetarium

Museum of Science
and Industry

Chicago Academy of
Sciences

Lincoln Park

\Vashington Park

Gar Field Park

Humboldt Park

Cook County

Forest Preserves
(1915)

Dunes Park of
Indiana

Brooktield Zoo
(Chicago Zoologi-
cal Society)

Board of Education
Bureau of Recreation

Chicago Park
District

Chicago Woman’s
Club—Forest and

Gardenbgasi

Board of Education
Department of
Educatién

NATURE RECREATION IN CHICAGO ° 505

Moving Spirit

Founded by
Jane Addams
800 S. Halstcd

 

 

.Herbert E. Bradley
7 South Dearborn

Street
72 W. Adams St.

Joy Morton
Lisle. Ill.

C. E. Godshalk,
Superintendent

Catherine Mitchell,

Secretary
144 Fairbank Rd.

Riverside, Ill.

Stephen C. Sintms
Director

Margaret Cornell
Education Dept.
Grant Park

\Valter H. Chute
Director
Grant Park

Philip Fox. Director

Grant Park

0. T. Kreusser
Director

Jackson Park at 57th

Alfred M. Bailey
Director '
2001 N. Clark

N. Clark and Center

57th and Cottage
Grove

100 N. Central Park
North and Humboldt

Charles G. Sauers
General Supt.

Tremont, Indiana

Brookneld

Herman J. Fischer
228 North LaSalle

V. K. Brown,
Director of Recreation

“*mm

Michigan Avenue
and 11th Street

William J. BOgan,
Superintendent of
Schools, 228 N.
LaSalle Street

 

Emphasis

 

To provide a higher
civic and social life

 

Geography
appreciation

 

Issues guides descrip-
tive of hiking trails
and current recrea—
tional attractions

An outdoor museum
of woody plants

A federation to guide

the conservation
movement

Natural History
Exhibit

Exhibition Tanks of

aquatic life, mostly
Fish

The Universe in
Miniature

 

Physical Sciences

Mammals, birds, and
plants of Chicago
district

Zoo, Birdhouse,
Aquarium, and
Conservatory

Conservatory

Conservatory

Gardens
Recreation

Beach and Dune

Animals cageless and
apparently in
native habitat

Nature activities
(mostly an athletic
program)

Recreational
activities
Conservation

Legislation

Units of work
in grades

Remarks

 

“Labor Museum” to show evolution of
Textile Industry. Joseph T. Bowen
County Club, a 72 acre farm with
resident gardener to preserve its
beauty

Excursions, conservation, publications,
exhibits, lectures, collections.
Over 1000 members

A frec service for all. . o ,
Maintained by public utility companies

 

 

 

400 acre tract 25 miles west of Chi-
cago. Emphasizes that it is “an edu-
tional institution and not a recrea-
tional center.”

Delegates represent membership of
20,000. Meet once a month

 

 

Children admitted free. 11 acres of ex-
hibits. Free lecture tours and illus-
trated lectures

Children admitted free

Demonstration lectures at 11 A.M.
and 3 P. M. Astronomical museum.
Children admitted free mornings

Has many of \Vorld’s Fair Exhibits.

An Operating coal mine

Free lectures Sunday afternoons

Facilities for fly-casting. 5 acre bird
sanctuary (1918) where mallards
breed

Domestic and exotic plants.
Formal gardens

Bananas and cacti

Beautiful rose gardens and landscaping

33.000 acres for play
Museum at Thatcher’s Woods

1500 acres. 40 miles southeast of Chi-

cago. Has resident nature guide in
summer

Children accompanied by adults free.
Like most Zoos is in the “Amuse,-
ment stage” of education. Acres of
grounds

6] playgrounds. Optional, competitive,

on point basis for felt emblems.
Must have 20 children for a hike.

__ Points awarded on mileage basis

115 Parks with 201 Playgrounds

Monthly meetings. Discussion
groups and lectures

Supervisor of elementary science “dis-
continued for reasons of economy.”
Curriculum grades 1—6. Some schools
have departmental plan, grades 7and 8

 

l—larttord's Racial Culture Program

A Connecticut city
takes advantage of the
historical and cultural

traditions oi the state
to promote citizenship

HE FIELD of recreation
I is limited only by the

restrictions of intelli-
gence and ingenuity. Its
fertility and flexibility of-
fer an ever-present op—
portunity that alert minds
can convert into inestim-
able value. It is confined
to no hard and fast rules
that dull initiative, deaden ambition and stifle en-
thusiasm. Rather, it fosters and encourages new
means and methods of furnishing education and
entertainment. The extent and nature of the
medium depends only on the enterprise and
energy of the sponsors. '

The Recreation Division of the Hartford, Con-
necticut, Park Department, has proven these facts
by a series of racial culture programs that widen-
ed the recreation vista and furnished a splendid
example of the value and importance of adapt-
ing a current event to augment a carefully plan-
ned, well-balanced recreation schedule.

Connecticut, rich in history and tradition and
proud that it is one of the original thirteen states.
observed last year the tercentenary anniversary of
its settling by hardy pioneers from the Massa-
chusetts Hay colony way back in 1635. It was not
an ordinary two-day or a week’s celebration. but
an entire year's affair that was inaugurated last
January and did not conclude until January 1936
rolled around.

506

 

By

JOHN M. HURLEY
Park Department

HartfordI Connecticut

E v e r v municipality,

from the largest city to the
tiniest hamlet. participated
with colorful exercises of
every description, but it
remained for James H.
Dillon, supervisor of Hart-
ford’s recreation, to turn
the event to practical rec-
reation purposes. He did
this in a simple yet highly eftective manner.

A study of census analyses revealed the na-
tionalities and races that comprised the city‘s
population. Representative leaders of each group
were called to a general meeting when plans were
draftcd and a schedule outlined. Mr. Dillon
guaranteed the use of the municipal open air
dance pavilion in Colt Park, an ideal setting with
a large, well-equipped stage and platform, a spa-
cious, open forefront and a natural background of
gentle slopes and gregn trees. He also agreed to
furnish lighting, adequate policing and seating fa—
cilities and his own personnel to serve as ushers.
gate tenders and attendants.

One night was set apart for each group and
the programs spaced so that no more than three
were scheduled for one week. Mr. Dillon's staff
took no part whatsoever in the preparation of the
programs. that task being left entirely in the-
hands of the group representatives. This decision.
incidentally. proved a wise move. In the first
place, it would be practically impossible to obtain

HARTFORD’S RACIAL CULTURE PROGRAM 507

a dramatics supervisor capable of training such
cosmopolitan casts. In the second place, it added
zest to the interest of the participants to train
under the direction of a fellow national who spoke
their tongue and knew their folk lore, history,
traditions and costumes.

The first program was given August 31 by the
Germans of Hartford, and when 2,200 persons
turned out to enjoy a series of Teutonic songs and
dances the sponsors were highly elated and en-
tirely unprepared for the spontaneous popularity
of the programs that were to follow.

At intervals of a few days, the series continued.
The Danes and Norwegians, second on the list.
drew 2,500 as did the Chinese and Negroes. The
attendance kept mounting night by night as the
popularity of the project spread until 4,000 were
on hand for “Armenians’ Night,” 5,000 for the
Ukranians, 4,500 for the French-Canadians and
6,000 to set a record when the Italian program
was presented.

The approach of the chill nights of fall and the
impracticability of continuing outdoor programs
presented a problem until Mr. Dillon solved it by
inducing ‘Warner Brothers to donate the use of
the darkened State Theater on one of the prin-
cipal streets in Hartford's business center. In-
doors, the programs were more popular than ever,
playing nightly to packed houses, although the
seating capacity was not equal to the outdoor
setting. However, the Swedish program at-
tracted 3,000, the Irish 3,500, the Hungarians
2,500, the Russians 4,000, the Portugese 2,000, the
second Negro program 2,500 and the Polish 3.500.

“The racial culture series proved one of the
most popular and successful recreation projects
ex er attempted in Hartford,” Mr. Dillon declares.
"The enthusiasm of the participants, young and
old, was amazing. Some of them rehearsed nightly
for weeks, and the opportunity to display in pub-
lie the dances and songs and costumes of their
native lands gave them greater enjoyment even
than the audience. And it is a significant fact that
the attendance never was confined to the nation-
ality that was presenting the program. For in-
stance, the Ukranians, who comp'rise but a small
portion of our population, had an audience of
5,000 and the Chinese were enjoyed ,by 2,500. The
same was true of all the others.”

None of the programs. of course, were alike,
and the rivalry between the groups really was so
intense they went to extremes to procure the fin-
est talent. The Danes and Norwegians, for in-

stance, featured a sketch, “The Little Match Girl,”
from the Hans Christian Andersen play, which
was directed by M rs. Dagmar Potholm Petersen,
of Portland, Maine, former student in the Copen-
hagen Royal Theater who was summering nearby.

The Chinese engaged a professional native or-
chestra from New York to augment a local'quar-
tette, and 2,000 year old music was played on
native instruments without the services of even a
conductor. The Community Negro Chorus, as
well as soloists: quartettes and dancers, gave a

program of Negro spirituals and folk dances, and.

when the Armenians had their night they were
directed by H. Mehrab, of New York, a graduate
of the Russian Imperial Conservatory and, until
the revolution, director of the Armenian National
Chorus in the Caucasus and Armenia.

More than 300 took part in the Ukranian pro-
gram by a Ukranian Folk Ballet and two Ukran-
ian choruses in. native costumes. while colorful
music, dancing and pageantry f eatUred the French-
Canadian night. The Italians with the names of
\Ierdi, Puccini and Mascagni starring a program
of operatic numbers drew the record attendance
of 6,000, and jigs, reels and hornpipes were the
order when the Irish entertained. Gay and lusty
folk dances and examples of their persuasive and
varied songs were presented by the Swedish
people.

Fifty singers and twenty-five dancers presented
the Lithuanian program, which included a scene,
“The Birute,” from Mikas Petrauskas' modern
opera, “Sacrifice,” representing a flaming altar
where sixteen “vaidilytes,” or virgin priestesses,
performed a liturgy. Although there are only
about forty Hungarian families in Hartford,
Hungarian night was attended, in spite of a severe
storm, by 2,500 persons, who enjoyed the presen-
tation of artists imported from the world famous
Hungarian Gypsy Revue of New York.

The music of old Russia, from the great ca-
thedral chants to gypsy melodies of the cross-
roads, was the high mark of the Russian program,
while the music and dances of Portugal were pre—
sented by the Portugese, and the Polish group
brought the series to a. close with a splendid por-
trayal of native dancing, singing and acting.

Naturally, the .series was widely acclaimed. so
much so that it came to the official attention of
the city fathers with the result that the Board of
Aldermen tcok the unusual action of requesting
the Recreation Division to continue the programs

(Continued on page 522)

Vocational Guidance

Through the

By
LOUIS H. SOBEL

IIE I’OSSIBILITIES of vocational guidance in the
T junior and senior high school and college

have been recognized for many years, as they
have been in other formal educational set-ups
such as continuation and vocational schools,
social service institutions devoted to the edu-
cation and care of underprivileged youth and
in the rehabilitation of adults who have lost
their vocations through incapacitation in civil
and military life. Particularly striking is the
growing use of vocational guidance in all social
work fields. Its value in the adjustment proc-
ess is becoming increasingly recOgnized, and
social agencies dealing with behavior problems,
emotional instability and other manifestations
of maladjustment are making better use of its
possibilities. . V

In view of this it is surprising to note a
failure to recognize the applicability of voca-
tional guidance in a particularly fertile field—
that of the organized club.

Throughout the country several million boys
and girls between the ages of ten and twenty
(some younger, some older,
but with the concentration

' Organized Club

The club has always been recognized as a
potent educational force in the life of the par-
ticipant. The voluntary membership, the inti-
mate inter-play of personality factors, the fine
relationships between club leader and club
member, the strong friendships and the power—
ful group attitudes, play a part far out of pro-
portion to the time usually allotted these activ-
ities. The very educational effectiveness of the
club and the strong hold it usually takes on the
boys and girls give it tremendous possibilities in
attempts at “life advisement” in any of its phases
—mental, social, physical, spiritual or voca-
tional.

Of fundamental importance in any guidance
program is the need for a knowledge of the
emotional, temperamental and personality
qualities of the individual seeking guidance.
Success, or vocational adequacy, is as often as
not determined by these imponderable person—
ality elements. The guidance set-ups in the
schools and social agencies can determine per-
sonality only to a limited degree, and it is in

the direction of exploring
and exploiting (for guidance

within this range), are par—
ticipating actively in club ac-
tivities affiliated. with
schools, boys’ clubs, Y. M.
C. A., Y. W. C. A.,~Y. M.
H. A., Y. W. H. A., Boy
Scouts, Girl Scouts, and sim—
ilar organizations. T h e s e
club s, properly organized
and conducted, may com-
bine the best features of pro—
gressive education and ad-
vanced social work.

508

In his discussion of vocational guid—
ance and the club, Mr. Sobell who is
Executive Director. Jewish Community'
Center. Detroit, pointed out a num-
ber of the factors entering into the
value of the club as an important field
for vocational guidance—among them
the relationship of leader to member.
of member to memberI and the op-
portunity for long-term. dynamic guid-
ance. We are presenting here the
sections of Mr. Sobel's paper dealing
with the values, for vocational guid-
ance. of hobby activities and leisure
time interests.

purposes) these determining
impalpable factors that the
club can make its unique
contribution to vocational
guidance. For it is in the
club that the boy or girl
gives overt expression to so—
cially significant behavior.
The ability to “rub el-
bows,” the capacity _for lead-
e r s h i p and Organization,
traits such as reliability,
trustworthiness and the per-

 

VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE THROUGH THE ORGANIZED CLUB 509

s1stency in the execution of club tasks, are
manifested continually. It is in the club that
activities are enjoyed requiring the use of spe-
cial skills such as arts and crafts, drawing,
music, dramatics, journalism, public speaking,
photography, and so on down the long list of
hobby activities that make up a club program.

Hobbies and Vocational Guidance

That these latter offer vocational guidance
opportunities for the alert counselor goes with-
out saying. They constitute excellent “try-out”
possibilities when utilized as such.

Altogether too little attention is paid the
possibilities for vocational guidance which lie
in the development of what are commonly
called leisure-time hobby activities, and very
often we get a complete dissociation of avoca-
tion and recreational activity from the voca-
tional concerns of the individual.

Two concrete examples point to opportuni-
ties in directing the avocational towards the
vocational with excellent results. A thirteen
year old boy in Yonkers, New York, developed
a leisure-time interest in the breeding of rare

tropical fish. Beginning with a few exchanges

'and small cash transactions, he developed a
business that today (the
boy. is now fifteen) re—
quires two full time em-
ployees and runs into sev-
eral thousand dollars per
year. The boy is still in
school and, as maybe
g u e s s e d, pursuing his
“hobby” with increased
fervor. '

Another situation. Two
boys in a New York City
Y. M. C. A. with a taste
for commercial art letter—
ing decided to put their

To many the club is the
core of their more
meaningful experiences;
it becomes a dominant
force in their lives

interest to more profitable use. They toured
their neighborhood and listed all stores and
commercial enterprises whose wares could be
made more saleable by attractive display.
They visited the proprietors and offered to
make the necessary signs on a “pay if you are
satisfied” basis. These boys secured enough
business to see them through many situations
and are now on the road to the development
of a profitable business in commercial sign
making. Incidentally both of these develop-
mentsJ took place during the last four years—
the depression period.

Such situations are, of course, not limited to
club life, but when one thinks of the amount
of time spent by clubs on “hobby” activities
such as aeronautics, radio, music, dramatics,
arts and crafts, journalism, etc., the implica-
tions are obvious. In addition, the more gen—
eral traits of manipulative dexterity, creativity,
ingenuity, habits of industriousness and order-
liness, all manifest themselves in- the specihc
hobbies. Many of these resemble vocational
situations to a degree that makes vocational
prognosis feasible in many cases; that is, as
feasible as they can be in any vocational guid-
ance program.

 

Courtesy Extension Department, Milwaukee Public Schools

u mWI-J- _"— #— -. .-. .-

510 VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE THROUGH THE ORGANIZED CLUB _

The most obvious fac-
t0r in the two cases re—
ferred to is that of inter—
est. The boys were so
vitally interested in their
hobbies that they over-
came m a n y obstacles.
Vocational guidance au-
thorities everywhere
agree that the most im—
portant single element
in vocational success (as-
suming that the basic
capacities are at all pres—
ent) is interest. There
is verification for this
theory in the fact that
the highest single factOr
correlative with success

SUMMARY

The well-guided organized club offers voca-
tional guidance a valuable tool because —

a. It permits continuo‘us study and analysis
otthe imponderable subtle personality elements.

b. It offers specific pseudo-vocational llhob-
byH activity with "try-out" possibilities.

c. It offers highly necessary character and
personality training opportunities.

d. It permits of close rapport with the

home, school and other influences touching
the youth.

e. It can be effective in motivating the boy
or girl toward a vitalI positivel interest in a

specific field: a sine qua non of genuine voca-
tional adequacy.

f. It can help overcome constructively the
destructive effects of the depressionI and pro-

perly orient our youth in a highly changing
and confusing world.

necessary, of course, par—
ticularly in certain racial
or sectarian groups
w h e r e rigid traditions
and social patterns make
for restricted vocational
selection.

Coordination m u s t
take place not only with
the home but with the
other influences at work
on the boy—the church,
the school, the block or
immediate neighborhood,
the job and any other
force that has a role in
molding the character of
the youth. Here again

in the few scientific stud—
ies available is this item of interest. Attempts
at vocational guidance that do not motivate
zestfulness and an enthusiastic reception on
the part of the boy are doomed to failure.
The development of postive, specific, driving
interests is one of the first tasks of the experi-
enced counselor. The club can be utilized tre-
mendously in this direction. One cannot but be
impressed with the absorption of boys or girls
in the activities of their clubs. To many the
club is the core of their more meaningful ex—
periences. It becomes a dominant force in their
lives. Whether or not it is a constructive force
depends, of course, upon the leadership. In
any event, even superficial contact with the
emotional intensity of club activity will con-
vince one of its possibilities in the attempt to
develop interests, enthusiasms and the com-
pelling, propelling “drive” that made possible
the success of the boys in the two instances
cited above.

Coordination with Home and Community

Another important factor in guidance is the
sympathetic cooperation of the parents and
older brothers and sisters of the guided. Many
guidance programs have failed for the sole

reason that they have not included coordina-‘

tion with the home. The club, because of the
closer personal relationships between member
and member and leader and member, makes it pos-
sible to include the home as a cooperating force
A special type of parental education may be

the club, with its un~

trammeled traditions,
general approbation in the community and
central position that it holds in the life of the
member, can play an important part. The reli-
gious leaders, teachers and employers in the
community can be called upon to give counsel,
act on advisory committees and supply infor-
mation under club auspices. Their aid and
cooperation under such circumstances have an
informality that adds to its effectiveness.

Training in Necessary Character Qualities

Ultimately vocational guidance must be a
function of personality training and growth,
and good “life advisement” will take place as
a concomitant of good character education. No
vocational guidance counselor can consider his
task complete without attention to the problem
of deve10ping those character traits which make
for vocational success or adequacy. Habits of
industriousness, gopd workmanship. punctu—
ality, orderliness, trustworthiness and other
qualities too numerous to mention are accepted
prerequisites of success and the “satisfaction”
through achievement that make for personal
happiness.

The effective club has always been thought
of as a powerful force in the development of
these qualities. Throughout the literature on

the club there is constant reference to these
character—building objectives. Witness the

,claims of the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts. Y. M.

C. A., Y. M. H. A., boys’ clubs, settlement

-VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE THROUGH THE ORGANIZED CLUB 511

houses, etc. The wise clinical or school coun-
selor will utilize the character-developing pos-
sibilities of the club in his vocational guidance
program. ‘

Clubs Offset Destructive Effects of the
Depression

The most difficult problem faced by voca-
tional guidance counselors today is the devas-
tating effect of the depression on the spirit and
morale of the young men and women coming
to them for guidance.

A feeling of hopelessness, of not being want-
ed, of having no place in the world is rapidly
'besetting our adolescent youth. “\Vhat's the
good of vocational guidance?” they say. “Give
me any job.” One of them actually compared
vocational guidance to the act of giving men
on the breadline a knowledge of dietetics and
nutrition laws. This spirit obtains even in the
close relationship of the interview situation.
In addressing groups of young men at the New
York State Employment Office, in schools and
elsewhere, the writer has sensed it as the pre—
vailing mood in the audience. As a matter of
fact, many in these groups have expressed it
directly, even to the point of cynicism.

In an economically contracting world in
v'bich there is a growing army of permanentlv
unemployed and in which technological
changes make for continual increases in our
“unemployables,” the answer to the questions
of our youth cannot be mere beatific expres-
sions of hope, or lip service to a better social
order in which such things will be impossible.
If the" growing despair and demoralization of
our youth are to be properly channeled and
directed towards constructive ends, a program
for this purpose under proper guidance must
be set up lest such control fall into improper
hands. Any attempt at guidance which fails to
include these broader socio-economic consid-
erations may be compared to the practice of
medicine which neglects to consider the health
conditions of the home, neighborhood and com-
munities of the patient.

The supervised club offers an excellent me—
dium for providing the educational and mental
hygiene antidotes necessary to overcome the
current negative attitudes of our youth. The
group gives the boy or girl a sense of belong—
ing; of having a place in the world. The feel«
ings of satisfaction and achievement that come

with social approbation go a long way towards
counteracting disappointments in the voca—
tional world.

Even beyond this antidotal function the
club, with its relatively unhampered program.
can provide training for constructive partici-
pation in communal and civic projects aimed at
eliminating the basic socio—economic factors
behind our current ills. Youth can be intelli-
gently prepared for the new social order, or
better still, can be directed towards taking a
sane, in t el 1 i g e nt part in its construction
through positive club programs in that direc—
tion.

Practical Steps Necessary
Enough has been said here to indicate the
potentialities of the club as a guidance medium.
\Vhat are the practical steps necessary to as—
sure the effective execution of a projected pro—
gram of advisement through the organized
group? It must be apparent that the begin—

nings, at least, lie in the following:

1. Selection of adequately trained leadership,
club leaders to come on the job with a guid—
ance background if possible. If not, they must
be given such training as soon as possible.

2. A special library of guidance literature for
leaders and members, including all standard
material usually provided in such a library.

3. If posssible the setting up of a testing bu-
reau or contact with adequate clinics in the
community.

4. Contact with socially-minded. “guidance—
conscious” placement offices, if placement is
not already a function of the organization of
which the club is a part.

5. Provision for adequate record keeping.

6. Provision of a program for training par-
ents in the meaning and spirit of vocational
guidance.

7. Analysis of all club activities from guid-
ance point of view and for purposes of indicat-
ing their vocational and “try—out” possibilities.

‘ 8. The club program itself may consist of:

a. Informal talks on guidance and specific
occupational information for purpose of wid-
ening vocational horizon of members.

b. Trips to industries.

c. Movies, slides, readings.

(Continued on page 522)

A Hiking Club for Women

ALKING as an activity is
w physically beneficial. Add
to this the social benefits
of companionship, the educa-
tional benefits of nature study
at first hand, the broadening
aspect of exploring and visiting new localities, the
joy one gets from being out in the Open, and the
sum total indicates an activity of real significance.
Seattle, Washington, is favorably located with
mountains, forest and water at its very doors.
Seventy miles to the east extend the beautiful
Cascades, with five outstanding snow capped
peaks and many hundred lesser peaks. To the
west. separating the extensive inland sea of Puget
Sound from the Pacific Ocean, lies the rugged
and partially unm'apped Olympic range. All of
this provides a wonderland of outdoor oppor-
tunity. Hiking and outing clubs should fiourish in
such surroundings, and many such organizations
are in existence.

The Sails and Trails Club, a women’s hiking
organization, is one of several in Seattle, but it is
the only one to be sponsored by the Playground
Division of the Municipal Park Department. The
club still holds its popularity through its original
objective of pleasurable and worthwhile trips at
small expense. In the fall of 1929 an overnight
party was organized through the local recreation
centers for a group of thirty-five young women
who had a most enjoyable week-end outing at the
municipally o w n e d
playground camp on
the shores of Lake
\Vashington. T h e s e
women were all work-
ing girls or .young
housewives. “ \V h y
can’t we do this
again?” was the ques-
tion. Out of this week—
end outing grew the
hiking club which was
named “Sails” for
boats on which they
might travel and

512 ‘X-

"So come along and sail with us.
Hike a happy trail with us.
Breast sun and rain and gale with us,
And we'll be comrades true."

 

“Trails”- for the trails and
roads over which they might
hike. The club has grown to a
self-sustaining organization of
I45 members. Hikes are plan-
ned regularly, at least once a
month. and from I 5 to 80 attend, depending on
the weather and type of trip.

Some Organization Details

.-\t the beginning one representative from each
field house was asked to serve on an executive
committee, thus providing a general representa-
tion from the different sections of the city. \Vith
the director of girls’ activities representing the
Park Department. this made eight members on
the governing board. Sub-committees were ap-
pointed for publicity, scouting, membership, mem-
ory book ~and photographs. The officers elected
were a president and secretary—treasUrer. Trips
were planned for each month, and a calendar of
activities for six months in'advance was printed.
Publicity was obtained by posters in recreation
centers and the central Y .VV.C.A., and calendars
and notices were left with the personnel directors

' of the downtown stores and the teachers’ league

secretary.

The first general organization has proven satis—
factory and has been maintained over a period of
six years with a few minor changes. The execu—
tive board at first served one year and was then
replaced by an entire-
ly new board elected
by the old one. A re-
volving plan has now
been worked out
whereby each board
member serves one
year and a half : every
six months three older
members, according to
seniority, are retired
and three new girls
from the membership
at large take their
place. A balance is

h.

still maintained so that each
community is represented.
Dues are one dollar a year.
To be considered eligible for
membership a girl must at-
tend two trips. General
meetings are not necessary
and therefore not held, all
planning being,done by the
committee. The important
thing is the outing!

Where Do They Go?

There are many places of
interest. Ferries, busses and
street cars carry the hikers

to starting points for beach,-

trail and mountains at a cost

A HIKING CLUB FOR WOMEN

At the present time the national govern-
ment is laying plans to complete a sky-
line trail |500 miles in length running
along the Coastal Divide from Mexico to
Canada. The trail will follow the Divide.
zig-zagging from side to side of the
rugged range. seeking the most favor-
able walking grade through alpine
meadows. across glaciers and mountain
valleys. and around the more inaccessi-
ble peaks. The trail will be entirely
owned by the public. Many miles of
trails are already open and in use. The
skyline trail will connect and extend those
already built. In the East. the famous
Appalachian Trail permits the hiker to
tramp from Maine to Georgia over I900
miles of beautiful trails. Although it is
not owned by the public. shelter cabins
have been built and the route is main-
tained by individuals and private groups.

513

the forests. Bird lovers some-
times accompany the hikers
and instruct them in the lives
and habits of the local birds.
Coal mines, creosote factor-
ies, brick kilns, power. houses
and other such places of local
importance add interest to
the hikes. The .University of
Washington f a c u l t y may
always be called upon for
speakers on nature lore, ge-
ology, marine life and relat-
ed subjects, who present in-
formative talks on the hikes.

The club has necessarily
had to set a few definite poli-
cies. Of primary importance

within reach of the girls of

modest salaries. By chartering Special busses, the
club members can have a. full day’s outing in A1-
pine meadows with a strenuous hike over moun-
tain trails for as little as one dollar per person,
this price including a beverage and sometimes a
hot dish. Less strenuous local trips can be had
for as little as fifteen cents round trip boat fare
across Lake Washington, or fifty cents across
Puget Sound.

The winter snow trips have proven most popu-
lar. The Seattle Park Department has recently
acquired a municipal mountain ski course at the
summit of Snoqualmie Pass in the Cascade range
——a two hour drive from the city. Volunteer ski
instructors are glad to accompany the group and
spend a part of the day giving instruction in both
beginning and advanced skiing. This has added
interest to the snow trips and has done much to
popularize this growing sport.

As a group the club has eXplored many miles
of countryside and visited many beautiful and in-
teresting sports. Several of the trips have become
annual. In May they cross to some point on the
Opposite shores of Puget Sound where the rhodo-
dendron is to be found. It is a worthwhile sight
to see this beautiful state flower in its natural
growth and bloom. In December they go tramp-
ing for Christmas greens, and it is a colorful
sight to see the group in bright jackets and caps,
with their arms full of greens, coming down a
trail through the brown winter woods. Care has
to be taken, however, to obtain permission to cut
greens on property, either private or state, as too
much indiscriminate cutting has been stripping

is consideration of the safety
of the group. Trips are never made under the
auspices of the club in private cars but always in
chartered busses with bonded drivers, or in pub-
lic conveyances such as street cars, ferries and
busses. Activities are almost entirely one day out-
ings. Overnight trips tend to limit the group.
However, by popular request two overnight trips
are scheduled each year. Ice skating in the civic
indoor arena is also included in the winter pro-
gram, and one social event is held at a field house
center.

What It Means

Aside from the pleasure that each individual
woman gets from the outings, many worthwhile
friendships have grown up in the club. Many of
the girls participate.in the field house sport classes,
and it is felt that the club has definitely helped to
foster a friendly spirit among the girls in the
athletic leagues. Photography has proven a never
ending source of interest, and a flourishing camera
club has come into being with several recently in-
stalled basement dark rooms.

The organization in Seattle has found the en-
thusiastic support which seems to be an indication
of a general interest in hiking and mountaineering
activities. Especially is this interest going to grow
with the impetus given it by the National Forest
Service trail development and the growing inter-
est in skiing and winter activities.

“Traveling afoot! This is the best posture in
which to worship the God of the Out-of-Doors I”
John H. Finley in The Art of Walking.

 

IN September the
'Recreation Division
of the Emergency
A d m inistration of
New Jersey conducted a drama tournament at
the outdoor theatre at Cadwalader Park,
Trenton, one of the six outdoor theatres in the
state. Groups from ten counties presented
twenty plays at this novel outdoor tournament.
ShakeSpeare’s “Midsummer Night’s Dream,”
and “Twelfth Night” were among the plays
presented.

A Drama Tournament
Held Outdoors

READING, P e n n—

sylvania, has a num—
ber of playground
associations c o m—
posed of the parents of the children attending
the playgrounds. Last year these groups raised
$4,000, $3,500 of which was spent on play-
ground eQuipnient. In order to raise the money,
the associations held fifty festivals and sold
cakes, ice cream, and soft drinks.

Playground Associa-
tions in Reading, Pa.

N E G OTIATIONS
are under \vay
whereby the City of
Dearborn, Michigan,
will receive from Henry Ford for use as a
park the property known as Ford Field, which
for many years has been used as a recreation
field. There are over twenty acres in the plot.

514

Ford Field To Be
Given Dearborn

A letter just received
from the National

New Recreation Areas

In Great Brltam Playing Fields Asso-

ciation of G r e a t
Britain reports that the Crown forests, of
which the New Forest and the Forest of Dean
are the two most important areas, are already
fully available for public access subject to
regulations and by-laws governing such mat-
ters as camping and motor car parking, as well
as the litter nuisance. The normal forestry
areas which have been developed under the
direction of the Forestry Commission are not
yet available for public access. These young
forests, of course, have been planted on scien-
tific lines and almost entirely consist of coni-
fers, and it is felt that the risk of fires is ever
present when the public are allowed to stray.
I
AS a novel feature
of' Dearborn Day,
the civic holiday
is which for nine years
has brought together thousands of residents
of Dearborn, Michigan, the City Recreation
Department this year presented “Gold in the
Hills,” a melodrama of the 10, 20 and 30 cent
days so dear to the hearts of theatre goers of
the gay nineties. The melodrama was one of
the closing events of a day of games and sports
designed to “offer an opportunity for the citi—
zens of the community to mingle in a day’s
sport and to get better acquainted.”

Melodrama Under
the Stars!

 

WORLD AT PLAY 515

A Tennis Center for Beverly Hills—-—Beverly
Hills, California, is planning for a new tennis
center to cost $29,600. This low cost is made
possible by the fact that the courts are being
built on the top of the city reservoir which was
made of concrete and was built especially to
support tennis courts. The new center will
have parking space for more than twenty—five
cars, a club house, a broad promenade 10 by
394 feet equipped with umbrellas and outdoor
settees, and a 10 foot high glass windbreak on
the coastal side. All of the courts will be
divided by four foot high walls to give an
atmosphere of privacy. It is believed that the
operating costs will be met with charges of 40
cents per hour for daytime play and 80 cents
per hour for play under lights. This will make
the cost for people taking part in doubles 10
cents per hour during the day and 20 cents
per hour at night.

With the Audubon Societies—At the annual
meeting of the National Association of Audu—
bon Societies held in New York October 28-29,
it was reported that there has been an increase
of 190 per cent in enrollment over last year
among members in Junior Audubon Clubs. If
the increase continues for the rest of the year,
it was predicted, there will be more than 350,-
000 children actively engaged in protecting
American wild life. In many schools the bird
club is by far the most pOpular extra—curricular
activity.

At the Essex County Crime Conference—
Approximately 1,110 persons were registered
at the Essex County Crime Conference held in
Newark, New Jersey, on Friday, October 25th.
It brought tOgether leaders in all fields of
social welfare in the county to hear discussed
the conference theme, “Prevention and Control
of Crime Through Community Cooperation.”
The enforcement of law, treatment of offenders
and prevention of crime were topics for each
of the three sessions. Hon. Joseph Siegler,
Judge, Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court,
Essex County, suggested as correctives to

I juvenile delinquency the establishment of
crime prevention units in police departments,
community councils, modification of school
curricula, establishment of recreation centers
and razing of slums.

 

CAMPING

***

Here is “Camping,” with all its
leisure activities, available in an
uninterrupted flow . . . at the turn
of a magazine page.

CAMPING \VonLD Magazine is . . . outstand-
ingly different . . . authoritative . . . interesting

. complete . . . written and edited by men
and women whose names command respect.
CAMPING \VonLD is concerned with the latest
developments in every phase of “Camping”
. . . Recreation . . . Education . . . Leader-
ship . . . Management.

CAMPING “'ORLD presents interesting ideas
and projects for . . . Arts and Crafts . . .
Outdoor Games . . . Indoor Games . . . Music
. . . Dramatics . . . IVater Sports . . . Riding
. . . Dancing . . . IVoodcraft . . . Story Tell-
ing . . . Land Sports, etc.

The January issue contains a full page plan
for "A Recreational Unit for Youngsters."
The plan is divided into three recreational
units . . . An active play area . . . A quiet play
area and a “Recreation Center” . . . and con-
tains many interesting groupings of various
recreational projects for children from 3 to
’7 years of age. This is the first of a series of
plans with detailed building instructions for
recreational units for children and adults.

 

INSURE BEING UP -TO - THE - MINUTE BY

SENDING IN YOUR SUBSCRIPTION TO

CAMPING WORLD. Published from January

to August, the price is $2.00 per year (eight

issues). One helpful article will repay the cost
of the subscription.

CLIP THE COUPON BELOW AND MAIL
WITH YOUR REMITTANCE. TODAY!

Camping World
11 East 44th Street. New York. N. Y.

Please enter my subscription. Enclosed find $2.00.

 

O I O I I I I 0 I I I I I I I I I O I o I I I I I O I I o I I I I O I I I I I I I O I I I I I I I O O O O I I O O I I C O I I O I I I C I I I I O I I I I I O I I.

POSITION .......................................................................... ..
ADDRESS

CITY ................... ..' ............................. .. STATE ................ ..
KINDLY PRINT R-l

5516 WORLD AT PLAY

Among the resolutions adopted at the clos—
ing session was one recommending a study by
state and municipal authorities of plans
worked out by the State Housing Authority
and by courts, recreation and leisure time or—
ganizations, for elimination of slums and pro-
vision for leisure time. A special committee
to give further consideration to the proposals
that were made at the conference is to be
named.

News from the Union County Park Com-
mission—In the ten year period from 1922 to
1932, 330 parcels of land'were purchased by
the Union County Park Commission, 34 par-
cels of land were condemned, and donations
of 41 parcels were received making the total
number of properties acquired 405. One of the
most recent gifts is that of Mr. and Mrs.
Frederick G. Squier of Rahwaywho gave to
the Commission 17 acres of valuable property.

Physical Education Program Expanded—
All the students at Kenyon College, Gambier,

Ohio, are required to earn credits in physical
educati0n before they graduate. Recently, ac—
cording to the Cincinnati Inquirer, a new plan
has been devised whereby in order to obtain

' credit each student will be required to demon-

strate proficiency in five of a group of sports
including football, basketball, baseball, track,
cross country, wrestling, boxing, speed ball
and touch football. They must also participate
in six of the following: Tennis, golf, bait cast-
ing, archery, Badminton, horseshoes, swim-
ming, polo, table tennis, bowling, handball,
riding, volley ball, indoor ball, rifie shooting,
billiards, and hiking. Instead of a routine of
gymnasium classes, Kenyon students will
develop at their leisure skill in the activities in
which they are interested. To aid the students
in becoming proficient, periods of instruction
have been scheduled but attendance is not
compulsory.

Academic Credit Given for Stamp Collecting
—The University Extension Division of Har—
vard University has inaugurated a course in

The House of Youth

The new magazine for youth —- right through the ’teens.

“The Key to The House of Youth is a Young

and Happy Heart.”

This is our slogan .’

Having“ the key, will you enter?

Hobbies. Games. Poems. Books. Music.
"How-to-Make" Articles. Prize Contests.

WE WANT: Stories, poems,

pictures and suggestions from
Youth everywhere. Payment
on publication.

Lively Stories. and Plenty of Pictures
Quarterly: 25¢. a copy.‘ $1.00 a year. Winter
' issue now ready. See order form below

 

THE HOUSE OF YOUTH
516 Yonge Street, Toronto, Canada

For the $1.00 enclosed, please mail THE HOUSE OF YOUTH for one year to

 

MABELLA ROEN GARA'IT, Editor and Publisher

lJVORLD AT PLAY 517

stamp collecting which will be accepted for a
college grade and will count toward a degree.
As a beginning a series of eight lectures by
specialists in their held has been arranged.

The Audubon Camps—The National Asso-
ciation of Audubon Societies will open in June
the Audubon N‘ature Camp the purpose of
which is “promotion of nature study enthusi—
asts armed with definite project programs for
the ensuing year.” The camp will be located
at the Todd wildlife sanctuary on Hog Island
in Muscongus llay. Maine. where there is
a wealth of wild life and flowers. A staff of
specialists will concentrate instruction on held
observation and on methods which they and
others have found effective in imparting in-
formation to children in a way which will
sustain their interest. The study of birds,
mammals and flowers will be stressed and that
of marine life and the stars will be treated.
The minimum period of enrollment will be two
weeks. The camp will be operated from about
the middle of June to September 11th. Further
information may be secured from the National
Association of Audubon Societies, 1775 Broad—
way, New York City.

A Park of 14,000 Acres—A park covering
nearly 14,000 acres of mountain country on the
Pocono plateau in eastern Pennsylvania will
be deve10ped by the Rural Resettlement Ad—
ministration in cooperation with the National
Park Service, according to an announcement
in the ,New York Times made by Allen \V.
Manchester, Regional Director of the Division
of Land Utilization. The area, which is being
acquired at a cost of about $100,000, is adjacent
to large industrial centers and a few miles from
the largest mine works in the world at Palm—
erton. It will be known as Hickory Run Park.

A Nurses’ Hobby Show—-A notable hobby
show was that sponsored in New York on
November 14th and 15th by the Committee on
Right Hours for Nurses of the New York
Counties Registered Nurses Association.
Known as the Nurses’ Hobby Show, it was
part of an educational campaign undertaken by
a professional group seeking shorter hours of
work and longer hours of leisure, and was a
demonstration designed to advance what this
group will do with their increased leisure when
and if they get it! The handcraft projects were

     
   

Magazines and Pamphlets

Z Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Parks and Recreation, November 1935
Salt Lake City’s New Park Deve10pment, by Jessie
Schofield
Hartford’s Music Shell, by John M. Hurley
Good Planning May Transform Ways of Living
Chahiukapa Park at Wahpeton, N.D., by J. R.
Hughes

Parents’ Magazine, December 1935
Winter Sports for the Whole Family, by Charles G.
Muller
Family Fun, by Elizabeth King

Leisure, December 1935
A Winter of Health. by Walter B. Grover
An Old English Christmas Party, by Sara H.

Carleton .
Young America Spreads Its Wings, by Albert Lewis

Skate and Bowl, by Charles King

The National Parent-Teacher Magazine, December 1935

Planning a Permanent Program for Youth, by John
W'. Studebaker

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,

December 1935

Olympic Preparations in Germany _

New Frontiers for Recreation—the National Recre-
ation Congress Reviewed

A Demonstration of Co-recreational Fun, by H. D.
Edgren

Circle Pole Ball, by L. Maude Norris

Fools’ Gold—a game with a medieval plot, by
Spencer C. VVoolley

Trails Magazine, Autumn 1935
Why Do We Have Winter Sports? by James K.
Reid

The Girl Scout Leader, December 1935
The Ancient Craft of the Wood Carver, by Chester
Marsh

The Jewish Center, December 1935
Dramatics for Ameteurs, by William Pinsker and
Mrs. Ruth Levin Rubin
Awards, by Leslie Flaksman

Scholastic Coach, December 1935
Lifetime Sports, by R. E. Lindwall

PAM PH LETS

Annual Report of Parks and Recreation, Commissioners
of Worcester, Mass., 1934

N ewark Recreation Department

Legislation Concerning Early Childhood Education
by Ward W. Keesecker and Mary Dabney Dairs.
Pamphlet No. 62—-—Ofiice of Education. Government
Printing Office. Washington, D. C. Price $.05

Safe at Home “

National Safety Council, 20 North \Vacker Drive,
Chicago, II].

An Anatomy of Leisure, by Mrs. Rolla Southworth
Florida Emergency‘Relief Administration, Exchange
Building, Jacksonville, Florida

EurOpean Study Groups for Physical Education and Rec-
reation Ahroad

Pocono Study Tours, Inc., 67 Stevenson Place, New
York City

518 AUTO TRIPS—AMERICA’S CHIEF FORM OF RECREATION

 

  
      
     
   
     
   
   

SCHOOL AND SOCIETY

Edited by J. McKeen Cattell

A weekly journal that aims to present the unity of
education from the nursery school and before, to
the university and after, and to keep the educa—
tional system in touch with modern democratic

civilization.

Five dollars a year Fifteen cents a copy

THE SCIENCE PRESS
Grand Central Terminal New York, N. Y.

   

examples of fine workmanship. They included
bookbinding and pottery, jewelry making,
knitting, crocheting, rug making, wood work
and tin craft. There were exhibits of table
setting and flower arrangement. Literature and
information telling where one could swim,
play tennis, roller skate, ski, rest and travel
were available. Hobby books were on exhibi-
tion. Each hospital displayed a scrap book
showing the social activities of nursing groups.
Thousands of people attended the exhibit and
much interest was aroused.

Recreation for Adults———The Los Angeles,
California, Playground and Recreation Depart-
ment reports a growing demand for leisure
time facilities and activities for adults. lecause
of this change in the character of playground
attendance many new developments have been
made necessary such as an increase in the
number and variety of special facilities and
equipment for adult education, many of them
segregated from the children’s play areas.
These include card rooms, chess and checker
pergolas, horseshoe courts, and the like. An
extension of the activity program has become
necessary with new emphasis on old-fashioned
dancing, social gatherings, card clubs, com-
munity sings, music, and arts and crafts.

Recreational Developments in Toledo—In
Toledo,.Ohio, the recreation program has been
greatly expanded through the use of \VPA
workers. In November, ninety of these workers
and eight supervisors conducted varied activi-
ties in twenty—two centers—twelve in the
buildings of private organizations, five in
school buildings, and the others in city build—
ings. Gordon Jeffery, in charge of recreation,
is acting as Park Superintendent and has under
his supervision twenty—five \VPA laborers
working on the building of athletic fields,
tennis courts, skating rinks, the improvement
of golf courses and roads, and similar projects.

Auto Trips—America's Chief

Form of Recreation

R. HENRY S. CURTIS of Ann Arbor, Michigan,
D as the result of a study made of the vacation
activities of school children of that city, has
reached the conclusion that driving is our chief
form of recreation and its importance increases
from year to year. Of the 4711 school children
studied, 2238, 47.5 percent went on “long”
trips, averaging 550 miles per round trip. This
was a much larger number than took part in
any other form of recreation. Of these trips

.1920, 85 percent were by auto. If we include

in this count the shorter trips of from 25 to 50
miles, about 90 percent of the children come
into the count. Practically all of these short
trips were by auto. and the auto on all trips held
a fraction more than five people, so that we
must multiply this mileage by five to get its
family value.

“Driving is accessory to most other forms of
recreation. In this way we are able to pay visits
to near and distant relatives and friends, and
go to the mountains or seashore for week—ends
and holidays. It is our chief way of getting to
our exercise, to the golf course or beach. Even
for a walk the auto is an almost necessary
auxiliary for the city dweller,-for it may be
miles from our hOme to anywhere we would
care to walk. The auto is a family conveyance.
It costs little more to carry five or six than it
does to carry one, and driving is about the only
thing the American family does together. The
auto is well adapted for sightseeing if we do
not go too fast. In order to yield results, travel
should be leisurely. Driving is a very demo-
cratic mode of traveling. \Ve have some 26,-
000,000 autos in America—enough to carry our
126,000,000 peOple. It is said that 40,000,000
people visited our national parks last summer.

“The rapid increase in the number of cara-
vans or trailers is going on. It probably costs
no more to live in a caravan which occupies a
new site every day than it does to live at home,
and the gas for 200 miles a day probably costs
no more than the rent of a summer cottage.”

Dr. Curtis pointed out the need for good
county, state, and national directories which
will locate the places of historical, educational, *‘
social, industrial and scenic significance.
“There are numerous educational possibilities

AMONG OUR FOLKS 519

Among Our Folks

ItARLI-ZS K. BRIGHTBILL, formerly a member of
C the staff of the Department of Public Play-
grounds and Recreation, Reading, Pennsyl—
vania, has been appointed Superintendent 'of
Recreation in Decatur, Illinois.

Carl H. Schmitt has been appointed Super-
intendent of Recreation in Millburn, New Jer-
sey, to succeed John Fox who has resigned.

\Vord has been received of the death of
Hugh C. Coleman, Director of Recreation,

San Jose, California.

Sophie Fishback, who for seven years has
been Director of the Department of Public
Recreation at Lakewood, Ohio, has resigned
to become National Adviser of the \Vomen’s
Benefit Association. Commenting on the situa-
tion in Lakewood, the' Lakewood Courier for
November 14th says: “Two major catastrophes
have whirled clouds of threatening danger
over the heads of Lakewood’s youth, hitting
the city Recreation Department within the last
ten days. The first was the defeat of the .15
mill levy which made possible the department’s
extensive program ; the second was the resigna—
tion of Miss Sophie Fishback as the depart—
ment’s director. If Lakewood today is a city
without a crime problem, let us pin the badge
of achievement on Miss Fishback who has
kept its youth wholesome by her intelligent,
untiring efforts.”

This is a tribute to the entire recreation pro—
fession, testifying as it does to the values of the
contribution trained leadership can make to a
community.

in automobile trips taken by children. Nearly
all children enjoy sightseeing. The desire to
travel is one of their most fundamental ambi—
tions. Surely the country should be enough
interested to get out some sort of directory of
the best sights of America so that children may
not pass them by without seeing them.”
“Uncle Sam is directly interested in our driv-
ing. It is the highways that tie a country to—
gether and make us a single nation. The man
who has traveled over America is likely to be
a more intelligent, loyal citizen than the man
who has always remained in one locality.”

Eagle Ringer
(patented)

DIAMOND.

PITCHING
HORSESHOES

A few courts of horseshoes will add
much to your playground. Write for
tree instruction booklets on organiz-
ing horseshoe clubs and official rules.
DIAMOND Official shoes and ac-
cessories are the choice of profes-
sionals and amateurs alike. Preferred
because of their excellent construc-
tion—their high quality materials.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
4610 GRAND AVE. DULUTH. mmn.

 

Recreation in the Years to Come
(Continued from page 484)
the caterpillar hasn’t been born at all. The cater-
pillar has walked around but his birth hasn’t oc—
curred yet. He is an organism that is merely do—
ing a little eating in preparation for being born.
In this country our civilization has done three
hundred years of eating and growing fat in pre—
paration for birth. It is a dangerous process; we
may not complete it successfully. Things we do
not understand are going on. \Ve are making what
the psychologists call random motions, kicking out
in different directions to find the boundaries of ‘
our universe. That is what we mean by the “pin-
feather” stage of the New Deal experimentation,
trying to see what we can do and what we can’t
do. We may have setbacks. \Ve don’t know. \Ne
don’t know where we are coming out but we know
the direction in which our destiny is moving. The
destiny is perfectly definite to an engineer. It is
the impact of an irresistible force on a body that
is not immovable. The irresistible force is the
knowledge that human beings have and that can-
not be put back into the bottle; the knowledge
that Aladdin's lamp has been discovered; that the

520 RECREATION IN THE YEARS TO COME

|936 Edition
Swimming Pool Data

and Reference Annual

0 Now being prepared for
the press. Pre-publication
price $1.00. After publica-
tion, the regular price of
$2.00 per copy will be main-

tained permanently.

Hoffman-Harris, Inc.
404 FOURTH AVENUE
New YORK CITY

power to create immense quantities of goods by
magic is in our hands. We know we can do it,
and so many of us know how to do it that the
knowledge Can’t be lost. .

Into the Golden Age

That is‘ one side of the electric potential that
constitutes the force of our destinies. The other
side is the age*old desire of humanity for plenty,
for ease, for security, for-comfort. For half a
million years. or whatever you want to call it, for
a large number of generations." the human race,
almost all the lives of all our forebears have been
lived in scarcity, poverty, and constant danger of
humiliation and despair. \Ve have dreamed of the
Golden Age. W e have dreamed of the time when
we could turn a button and magic things would
happen. \Ve have come to that time. We are
turning buttons and putting raw materials in at
one end and out the other end come all kinds of
interesting things done up in cellophane.‘

Under those circumstances we have now come
to the beginning of civilization. \Vhat that civiliza-
tion will be we don't know. \Ve are the primi-
tives. How should we know? We don’t know
any more about what civilization will be two hun:

 

dred years from now than the Argonauts knew
about the Parthenon. The thing that we have done
is to find the material basis for civilization and a
few little preliminary glimpses of possible arts of
living. Among those arts are the beginnings of
the' art of recreation as Americans will do it.
\Vhat it will be we don't know. Probably it will
be something different from what we might sup—
pose, but we can at least recognize that the mak-
ings of a civilization are now in primitive form
in our hands. The makings of this civilization
involve the‘prospect of a long continuance of
physical plenty and an unruly, irresponsible,
mixed group of people who will be hard to hold,
who will refuse to obey laws, and who have the
marvelous. technique for not obeying regulations
which was brought to perfection under the pro—
hibition law—people on whom you'can count to
wiggle out of any sort of an attempt to regiment
them.

Having that sort of American people and the
Age of Plenty, all we need to do now is to arrange
our institutions in such a way that our people will
be able to enjoy plenty, and then watch us go.
\Vhere? Who cares? That is not for us to worry
about. All we need to worry about is that we
should have freedom, opportunities, and facili-
ties and that in so far as possible we should direct
the beginnings of our civilization into ways that
have some possibility of turning out to be fruitful
and desirable.

Among those various things and in a situation

.of that kind. where activity of all sorts is increas-

ing, where opportunities for doing the things that
people' want to do are increasing, numerous lead-
ers will bemecessary, and in a situation of that
kind you will End a growing field for your opera-
tions in the future. i

NOTE: Mr. Coyle’s address was delivered at the
Recreation Congress held in Chicago September 30-
October 5.

When Recreation Executives Meet
(Continued from page 499)
ment has installed its own water system in three

of the parks thereby cutting down the water bill
by two-thirds. ln wooded areas where there are
shrubbery groups, plantings and flower beds have
been rearranged so that the mowing can be done
by tractors. If a baseball field is built by relief
workers it is possible to keep it in repair through
the labor of relief workers. In Mr. McDonald’s
judgment the maintenance of the facility is just

f

IVHEN RECREATION EXECUTIVES MEET. ' 521

as much the obligation of the emergency agency
as the construction of the facility or the putting
on of the program for its use. '

“I have been greatly discouraged about the pub-
lic works program at times; at other times I have
looked at it as the greatest thing that has ever
come to our city. So let’s look at the program,
study it with respect to our needs, and instead of
saying, ‘\\'hy in the world did they do this?’ or
‘Why didn't they do that?’ let's say, ‘What is it
our system needs that this program will give us?’ ”

Speaking of the workers made available through
the emergency agencies. Mr. McDonald said: “In
our cities we have had splendid work from FERA
and CW’A workers in the construction of the bath
houses and buildings we have put up. The cement
work. the curbs and gutters that have been con-
structed show just as good workmanship as that
done by contractors. When you make a mule out
of a man and put him on a wheelbarrow job you
won’t have efficiency; when you put him on a job
when he can see sOmething definite as a result of
his work, you will get efficiency.” Mr. McDonald
also commented on the value of the work done in
Kansas by the FERA recreation workers. “Those
of you who know anything about western Kansas
know that life there has been a pretty sordid thing
during the last few years. And I want to tell you
that these workers in going from town to town
and preaching the doctrine of recreation have
done more in the year they were carrying on ac-
tivities than has ever been done before in our
state.”

The Enlarged Recreation Service

of the National parks

(Continued from page 502)

believe that we are going places and doing things.
thanks to the fine spirit of cooperation we have
received from the states and the realization of the
part of everyone of the real necessity for proper
recreation facilities and leadership in their use.

The day is here when recreation is no longer a
luxury; it is a necessity. It will never go back to
the luxury stage; it is here and here to stay.

There is under consideration by the adminis-
tration a bill which will permit the National Park
Service to continue- in its cooperation with the
states and the political subdivisions in unifying
and in working out the recreation problem, in
getting Illinois and Iowa, Mississippi and Louisi-

Announcing . . .

a new and unusual book on

Tap Dancing

with a musical note
for every tap

which makes tap dancing

amazingly simple and

 

easy for beginners . . . .
indispensable for danc-
ing instructors. A book
like no other on the market, with
steps analyzed from both a tech—
nical and musical standpoint. . . .
Each routine is set to an original

musical composition.
by

Mara-(wanna JI'DD who is a graduate in phy—
sical cducation from Battle Creek College,
professional dancer in vaudeville and musical
comedy, director of dancing and individual
gymnastics at Central Branch, Y.W'.C.A. of
the City of New York.

..and..

IIOWARD M. STUART who has divided his
career of thirteen years in the theater be-
tween dancing and music. . . . He has directed
his own orchestra, composed music, produced
dance routines for vaudeville and club work
and is a teacher of tap dancing.

.Miss Judd and IlIr. Stuart have

been associated professionally
as entertainers and in ctasses for
the past four years. . . . At
present they are both teaching
in New York City.

Illustrated by '
THELMA s. MENDSEN

$1.00

THE WOMANS PRESS.

600 Lexington Avenue. New York. N. Y.

 

522 VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE THROUGH THE ORGANIZED CLUB

ana, and all the other states together in develop-
ing a recreation program that will adequately take
care of our people.

NOTE: Address delivered by Mr. \Virth at the Rec-
reation Congress at Chicago.

Hartford's Racial Culture Program

(Contimtcd from page 507)

as a permanent recreational project. From the
outset and all during the presentations, the divi-
sion had the hearty cooperation of Mayor Beach
and other city officials, particularly Alderman
Frank C. Tindale, chairman of the Mayor’s Ter—
centenary Committee, whose assistance and co-
ordination with Mr. Dillon aided materially in the
promotion and presentation of the programs.

Vocational Guidance Through the
Organized Club

(Continued from page 511)
(1. Research activity by committees in dif-
ferent fields.
e. Talks by employed members about their
industries.

\

f. Program of coordination with home,
church, school and industry through invita—
tion to ministers, teachers, principals, em-
ployers, and parents to talk at meetings; to
act on the club adult advisory committee; to
secure significant school data, and to make
available to the home and school the data
secured through the club and where possible
conference with other agencies involved to
unify the guidance program.

It is not to be assumed from the preceding
comments that the writer thinks the club the
only effective instrument in gaining the stated

objectives. On the contrary, it must be defin-

itely understood that the club is but a supple—
mentary and complementary agency whose
very effectiveness depends upon continuous
close relationships with all the institutions in
our highly complex modern society. The club
is simply another agency whose primary func—
tion is cooperation. The club supervisor who
fails to recognize this misses completely the
real values of the club as a help in the “life
advisement” process.

gageh, Teaching mate'ziaf 50': the Recteaticn Ditecto'z

The Education Division of the National Safety Council publishes a variety of

material designed to aid in the teaching of safety on the playground or in
the school. We recommend the following:

SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE—A monthly publication con-

taining colored posters, graded lesson outlines, .short plays
and stories, informational articles, etc.

Price $1.00 a year

THE JUNIOR SAFETY COUNCIL—A handbook of safety activi-

ties containing practical program suggestions, patrol organi-

zation and references.

1

Price $.35

PLAYGROUND PACKET—A collection of safety material for the

playground director. Contains 10 colored safety posters, a
safety play, crayon lessons and instructions for the safe use

of playground equipment.

Price $1.00

Education Division,'National Safety Council

ONE PARK AVENUE

NEW YORK, N. Y.

 

Active Games and Contests

By Bernard S. Mason and E. D. Mitchell. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $3.00.

HERE IN one volume are over 1800 games and contests

covering the field of active play. The activities are
classified according to contests between individuals; con-
' tests between groups; team games, and water, winter
and mounted activities. The book is a companion volume
to SOCIAL GAMES FOR RECREATION, which was reviewed
r in the June issue of RECREATION. Recreation workers will
' find both books exceedingly helpful.

Our U. S. A.—-A Gay Geography

Text by Frank J. Taylor. Maps by Ruth Taylor. Little,
Brown and Company, Boston. $3.50.

A GAY GEOGRAPHY indeed is this volume in which our
American land and American life are described by
states in words and in brightly colored maps presenting
the characteristics of the life and physical features of
the various states. For readers young and old'there is
amusement and information. Those who wish to use
the book for educational purposes will find it in line
with the latest attitude toward geography which con-
siders human beings and their activities as the center of
geOgraphical interest.

Children of the Handcrafts

By Carolyn Sherwin Bailey. The Viking Press, i'ew
York. $2.00.
HERE ARE fascinating stories of 'boys and girls who
played a part in the development of crafts in our
country; of little Rebecca Lefferts stitching her star and
crescent quilt; of Duncan Phyfe who came to America
as a small boy; Paul Revere, the Silversmith, and of
Macock Ward, the boy apprentice to the clock-making
trade in old Connecticut. Grace Paull made the attractive
lithographs which illustrate the boOk.

Leisure Time Bibliography

By Fred J. Schmidt, Jr. Industrial Arts Department,

Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa. $1.00.
AS INTEREST in hobbies and avocations grow, it is in-
creasingly important to have available sources of
information in the many varied subjects in the field of
hobbies. This guide to 'books and magazine articles per-
taining to leisure time and to avocational interests related
to industrial arts education provides a comprehensive
bibliography on handcraft of various types and arts and
other cultural interests. There is a brief section devoted

to outstanding books on leisure in general.

Crafts for Children

By R. R. Tomlinson. The Studio Publications, Inc., New
York. Paper bound, $3.50; cloth, $4.50.

H ERE IS A fascinating publication on crafts made doubly
attractive by the beautiful illustrations of which

there are over a hundred. The discussion deals with a
definition of crafts and how they have 'been practiced
and taught in the past, followed by chapters on Craft
Teaching Today; Craft Teaching in Many Lands;
Principles; Methods, and Summary and Conclusions.
“In this machine age,” concludes the author, “when all
is speed and bustle, let us take care that we do not
develop in our children streamlined minds lest they be
not able to tarry by the way.” '

How to Ride Your Hobby

By A. Frederick Collins. D. Appleton-Century Com-
pany, New York. $2.00.

R. COLLINS has given us a very stimulating book on

hobbies, their values, how to safeguard them, and
how to ride them. The information—and there are a
multitude of practical suggestions—is presented in
popular readable style. The material is classified under
the following headings: Some Collecting Hobbies; Some
Plant Hobbies; Some Animal Hobbies; The Manual
Arts Hobbies; Model-Making Hobbies; The Fine Arts
Hobbies; The Photographic Arts Hobbies; About
Musical Hobbies; A Few Amusement Hobbies; A Few
Entertainment Hobbies; Scientific Hobbies. There are
many diagrams throughout the book. We venture to
state that any hobbyist looking for information about
his pet project will not be disappointed.

Organized Camping and Progressive

Education

By Carlos Edgar Ward. Informal Education Service,
Nashville, Tennessee. $2.00.

THE AUTHOR’S purpose in writing this volume has Ibeen

to provide a source book of helpful practices and
processes for counselors and camp directors and to bring
to parents a more understanding interest in the possibili—
ties and limitations of organized camping. It has been
written in three parts, each designed to serve a distinct
purpose: Part I, to sketch a picture of the movement in
the setting up of American civilized life; Part II, to
bring the reader a close-up of actual camping experiences;
Part III, to evaluate the organized camp in the light of
modern social science and educational theory.

523

 

524 NEI/V PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Home Handicraft for Boys.

By A. Neely Hall. J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia,
$2.00.

The new and enlarged edition of this pOpular book
contains over 400 illustrations. Any boy can follow the
clear directions given which will show him how to make
-games, airplanes, boats, furniture for his room, garden
gadgets and things for the kitchen, pantry and laundry.
It is indeed “a splendid book for every boy from eight
to eighty."

America’s Story As Told in Postage Stamps.

By Edward Monington Allen. Whittlesey House,
McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc., New York. $2.50.

It may not Ibe generally known that almost every im-
portant event in American history has been commemor-
ated by the government in the form of a Special issue of
postage stamps. From the early, almost legendary voyages
of the Vikings to the Byrd Antarctic Fxpcdition and the
California Pacific International Exposition, the' course of
American history has been rather fully illustrated in
stamps. America's Story As ToId in. Postage Stamps
charts the course of our history and ingenuiously employs
these.con1memorative stamps to illustrate the record.
There are special frames in which the reader may aflix
real stamps to illustrate the text, and great care has been
taken to select for this purpose only those stamps which
may be purchased very reasonably. It is the hope of the
author that the book will help every boy and girl who
delights in collecting stamps to a better understanding of
our nation’s history. Adults as well as children will find
the book keenly interesting. And one need not be a stamp

collector to enjoy it.

How to Watch Football.

'By Lou Little. McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc.,
New York. $2.50. ' .

In this 'book' the readei- watchesa typical college foot-
ball game with Lou Little, head coach at Columbia
University, who explains as the game progresses the
significance of the various plays, rulings and strategems.
In addition Mr. Little includes a brief outline of his own
methods of building a team. The reader will enjoy
future games the more for having read Mr. Little's ex-
planation of technique and the fine points of the game
which the average spectator ordinarily misses.

Party Book of Songs, Stunts and Games.

Edited by Kenneth S. Clark. Paull-Pioneer Music
Corporation, New York, $.25; West of the Rockies,

$.30.

Mr. and Mrs. America and their family are invited to
“sing, play and be happy” with this collection of songs,
stunts and games. There are 50 songs with music ar-
ranged for harmonica and guitar. For many of these
songs Mr. Clark has gone back to the days of “The
Sidewalks of New York.” “Daisy Bell” and others of
this same type. The games, which cover a wide variety of
activities, are arranged under the following headings:
Out-You-Go Games; Let’s Get Active; Quickies and
Tests: Paper and Pencil Games; The Word's the Thing;
Match and Coin Stunts; Acting ’Em Out.

Water Sports for Women and Girls.

Spalding’s Athletic Library. No. 125R. $.25.

Official rules for swimming and diving are given in
this new publication in the series of athletic activities for
women and girls. The booklet also contains full informa—
tion on national telegraphic meets and a number of
articles on water sports. A list of motion picture films
on swimming, diving and life saving is included and
thcre are a number of bibliOgraphies.

    
   
   
  
  
  
   

American Planning and Civic Annual.

Edited by Harlean James. American Planning a1
Civic Assoctation, Union Trust Building, Washii
ton, D. C. Free to members; to non-members, $3.

The American Planning and Civic Association, whi
represents the union of the American Civic Associati
and the National Conference on City Planning, announc
the publication of its Annual. This consists of a recor
of recent civic advance, including the proceedings Of t
Conference on City, Regional, State and National Pla
ning held at Cincinnati in May 1935, and addresses sele
ted from the National Conference on State Parks he]
at Skyland. Virginia, June 1935. Over eighty individual
have contributed to this volume which contains a numbe
of photographs showing views of national and stat
parks and governmental projects

Fun and Festival from Latin America.

By Helen Garvin. Friendship Press, New York. $.25
Here are fascinating glimpses of the fun and festival
which characterize the vast region to the south of 11
They bring us a realization of the richness of Lati
America culture. its folkwavs and manner of life
Patriotic and religious festivals are described. and ther
is a section on music and one on drama. Informatio
is given on the games and sports engaged in. and we lear
of the food which is served at teas and suppers.
bibliography completcs the booklet.

Embroidery Design.

By Molly Booker. The Studio Publications, Inc.
New York City. $3.50.

Good design is essential to the promotion of beautifu
work in embroidery. It is not, however, as the autho
points out, as difficult a problem as it is somctimes mad
to appear. The book gives definite suggestions, on box
to make a design. and also discusses embroidery i
general. materials and method, and stitchery. An analysi
of fifteen works in embroidery is presented. There ar
over thirty interesting illustrations.

Oflicers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association
OFFICERS

Josern LEE. President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINAN'r, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GvsrAvvs T. KIan. Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCIISR, Secretary

DIRECTORS

'MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle. Pa.
WILLIAM Burranwoarn. Moline. Ill.

CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORBE'I'T, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville. Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley. L. I., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARReTr, Baltimore. Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFrl'rIIS, Seattle, Wash.

CHARLES HAYDEN, New York. N. Y.

MRs. CHARLSS V. chxox. Michigan City. Ind.
MRS. EDWARD E. HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRs. FRANCIS DELAcv HYDE. Plaintield, N. J.
GusrAvus T. KIan New York, N. Y.

H. McK. Lmnon, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRs. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITE‘I, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. Looms, New York. N. Y.

J. H. McCURDv, Springfield, Mass.

O'r'ro T. MALLSRv. Philadelphia, Pa.

\VAL'rzn A. MAY. Pittsburgh. Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKSN, Augusta. Me.

Mas. OGDEN L. MILLS. 'Woodhury, N. 

MRS. JAMES \V. WADSWORTH’, JR., Washington, D. C. .-I-I
J. C. WALSH. New York, N. Y. '
FREDERICK M. W'ARDURO, New York. N. Y.
JOHN G. \VINAN'r, Concord._N. H. _
Mas. “VILLIAM H. \VOODIN, JR., Tucson. Ariz.

