Congress Afterthorights

MEMBERS of the recreation profession were justly proud of their own number at the recent Rec-
, ‘ reatlon Congress at Atlantic City. V. K. Brown’s emphasis on service as a form of recreation.

of abundant living, thrilled his audience. Ernst Hermann, out of the wealth of his own per-

“ sonal experience and thought on recreation problems, pointed to the important part which creative
 use of one’s hands has in building and keeping a life.

Dr. James S. Plant, though not a professional recreation worker, has been closely associated
with the recreation family, speaks our language, Understands what recreation workers are trying to
do. At the Congress Dr. Plant ably advanced the philosophy of Joseph Lee, of Jacob Riis, of Jane
Addams, of Robert Woods in pleading against regimentation in all its forms, against making tech—
nique all supreme, against the assumption of all-wisdom on the part of recreation workers. The
philosophy of the play-recreation movement has been Jesus’ philosophy of rich abundant living. It
has been the philosophy of Aristotle in recognizing time as the great wealth, and training for the use
of time, of leisure, as the end of education. It has been the philosophy of Froebel and of Emerson
and of Lincoln. There has ever been recognition of the individual, of helping the individual to build
his own life, to be himself. It has not been so much the philosophy of doing things for pe0ple, of
making people over according to one’s own ideals, one’s own pattern, for ends foreign to the indi-
vidual, but rather of helping each person to use all his powers in so far as he does not interfere
with allowing others to be themselves, to realize themselves.

I remember in 1917 or 1918 Myron T. Herrick’s reporting a conversation with the late George

F. Baker, Jr., in which Mr. Baker told Mr. Herrick he had thought the recreation movement aimed

to make people goody—goody and this had greatly antagonized him. Mr. Baker was enthusiastic for

a program for giving pe0ple an opportunity for happy activity, but he did not like the idea of try-

' ing to make people over according to some one else’s idea. I rather sensed from what Ambassador

Herrick said that George F. Baker, Jr., did not Want others making him over and he did not want to

support any movement for making other people over. In other words he had respect for human per—
sonality—his own and others. One felt this understanding in Dr. Plant’s address.

Rabbi Silver, like Dr. Plant, has for years belonged in a peculiar sense to the recreation move—

ment. Again this year be dealt with fundamentals. Man's enduring satisfactions through the centur-

._ ies are to be found in democracy and under self-government and it is important that the recreation
. movement be true to its own nature and neither condone nor give aid to the world forces that are

making for centralization of power and using human beings for ends that are not their own.

The recreation movement does have a philosophy of freedom, of cooperation. of individualism.
of democracy, of helping men to help themselves in long-time ways rather than trying by tricks or
techniques of group pressure to assume the wisdom to make men over without their knowledge or

desire.

n

The philosophy of the recreation movement is the philosophy of long—time growth — not of
sudden off-the—top changing of men’s lives.

There is a deep unity in the movement which comes from its common traditions and philosophy.
This unity one felt at the recent Congress. One also felt a deep faith in what the people themselves

will ultimately do for themselves through their own local government.
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

JULY|937 ’

 

209

July

 

Photo by H. Armstrong Roberts

YOUTH

"You’rh is no’r a ’rime of life—if is a s’ra’re of ’rhe will. a quaii’ry of ’rhe imaginai‘ion.
of mind. H is noi' a ma’r’rer of ripe cheeks. . a vigor 6f ’rhe erno'fions; if is a freshness
red lips and supple knees. H is a ’remper of ’rhe deep springs of life."’—S. Ulman.

210

  
 
  
    
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
  

  
  

l

HE PEOPLE of America are living
a horse and buggy spiritual life
on a 1937 emotional speedway.
' ‘ rue, in times of major catastrophe we grow
' ental, physical and spiritual wings for a day or
' week, achieve deeds of heroism, rise to heights
f accomplishment for which we did not dream
ve had the power. Even the weak heart responds
o the temporary demands of the rescue work of
v. great Hood. The invalid mother carries a family
'hrough an epidemic of influenza before she her-
elf collapses. The young man who was at the
lfoint of suicide gives his entire emotional strength
0 the little children left fatherless by a forest
fire. There are known cases of complete physical
recovery after a demand which
. in normal times would have
‘ een impossible to meet; then
' hen the crisis passes, a retro-
ression to a dead level of ex-
Il stence.
Yesterday, after ten days of
ight and day service for home-
ess victims of a disaster, Gui-
eppi entered my home with a
I ght in his eye and a vitality in his step, not to
iention the nobility of his whole aspect, that I
‘ ould not have thought possible in one whom I
ad known lastweek as a “rough—neck” who took
is recreation and his refreshment of spirit from
a bottle. What will Guiseppi do tomorrow when
l he emergency demand is past? Will any of the
new current remain to enrich his life and make it
rield a measure of satisfaction? Or will the same
piritual poverty manifest itself which is evi-
enced by the kind of leisure time activity chosen
ven by recreation_leaders and experts for their
) own personal use? .
"i \\"e are a lethargic people, loath to tap the great
.sources of power which lie deep within the indi-
rJidual, dormant but ready for utilization in his
"everyday life when discovered and conserved and
rerouted over adequate wiring.

\

New Strengths Demanded

This is a new age—an age of power unguessed
‘ by our fathers. The ninth grade boy knows more
. about the great forces of nature today than you
_ and I know, for all our years of experience. It is

 

By IVAH DEERING

 

Mrs. Deering, who lives in Cin-
cinnati. is the author of "The
Creative Home" and other books
and magazine articles. She has
a wide knowledge of the fields
of education and recreation.

 

l. Tapping the Reserves of Power

a new world which they take in their
stride, naturally, easily, up to a cer-
tain point. But it is like the cable
which is made up of strands covered by an outer
coat of protective material. Its full strength or
weakness can be known only when a test is made.
And this new world constantly demands of the
man or woman new strengths to meet the tests of
an age of power.

‘ There was a time when school and leisure time
leaders could “pass the buck” to the home and the
church to build up the character of the boy and
girl to meet those tests. Then they could forget
about it. But this age of power touches every in—
dividual too closely to admit of shifting responsi-
bility. The church is in the
midst of metamorphosis and
cannot be counted upon to in-
terpret its purpose in terms of
practical development of indi-
vidual power until the new
conception of the motives of
their Leader is more generally
accepted. The integration of
the whole' man can be ap-
proached only by a recognition of the close asso—
ciation of the mental and the emotional, or, we
may say, the spiritual. It may be that the church
is on the way to that recognition, but the time is
not yet.

The home, too, is in a process of changing form.
Its very outline grows dim before our eyes. F re-
—quently the home is an automobile, a trailer, one
tenement room, perhaps even a city park. It is
ridiculous and juvenile to attempt to hold the
ancient institutions to the same form and outline
as were common a century ago. To do so means
rebellion and revolution too violent to accomplish
progress. If, however, this home of today can be
visualized as not a place, but an atmOSphere, an
influence, yet still the source of the greatest power
or weakness inherent in an adult being, we have
accepted a rational point of view which ultimately
may bring about some progress in human de-
velopment.

The emotional trend of the individual is still,
molded by the atmospheres of his first few years.
Conflict, insecurity, frustration, bear disastrous
fruit in an unsuccessful life. Recreational activi-

211

212 TAPPING THE RESERVES OF POWER

ties may in themselves be good, but fail to de-
velop strengths because of the attitude of the
group in which the child takes part in the activity.
The growth of emotional power can no longer be
left to chance, for while the home of today may
be negative, the influences and tensions of the
world without are distinctly positive. Character
is something more than conforming to the mores
of the adults of a community. It is a matter of
building up strengths and discovering the latent
powers and possibilities of every girl and boy.

We have scarcely glimpsed the possibility that
lies in the human being. We prefer to accept the
superman as a genius or a prophet rather than the
product of definite laws and circumstances which
can be reproduced in increasing numbers if truly
desired. Perhaps We are fundamentally a lazy
people. The responsibility for creating as a norm
a person who is of the calibre which we now term
superman is too much for the mind to grasp, too
great a task for leaders to undertake with their
present limited use of their own powers.

We have accepted the fact that the age-of
machinery and the half-turned bolt is an age of
tensions and strains; that the speed of the world
today forces the human being to find his balance
in his leisure time, but we have spoken in terms
of games and activities only, with little analysis of
and appreciation for the significance or value of
the task of any leader of leisure time activities.

Marking time is a bore, whether it is done on
the parade ground or in the classroom or play-
ground. The great pioneer leaders took the time
to awaken in their people an understanding of
what was the ultimate goal of any journey, and so
they were inured to hardship, long hours and
suffering. So much of the cheapness of attitude,
the spiritual poverty of recreation leaders would
be dissipated if they could be chosen with greater
care, injected with the virus of understanding and
challenged to the exercise of that courage which
Miss Earhart tells us “is the price that life exacts
for granting peace, and release from little things.”

Levels of Power

It takes courage and understanding to vision
recreation as the release of energy which will set
men on the trail to high endeavor. James it was
who told us of the many levels of power in terms
of the man who climbs a mountain, gives out at
the first spur, then gets his second wind, a strength

   
 
    
 
 
  
  
  
   
    
   
 
  
   
   
 

he had forgotten or never knew, and goes on to
the top. I have a vivid childhood recollection of a
great fire when a frail elder sister and I carried
innumerable buckets of water across the field and
up a ladder to a smoldering barn—unaccustome
labor, too difficult for a child, but leaving no dir
results. I 'have seen a hobo, ragged and unkempt,
dive into a stream and rescue a little child, the
lounge on down the tracks with downcast eyes.

There are many recognized methods of discov
ering and using these levels of emotional force
Some are scientific, some chance only: The Hol
Roller meeting where the sot became “sanctified’
and in the grip of a spiritual ecstasy, was for
week a model of sobriety; the withdrawal 0
Gandhi into the wilderness or into the meditatio
from which he emerges with La new poise an
command of his people; Christ entering his Geth
semane, the yogi, his silence. Hypnosis is in
creasingly used to tap hidden resources and adjus
the disintegrated individual.

Various religious sects base their astoundin
but none the less real results on the same prin
ciple—whether it is called “getting in tune wit
the infinite,” or accepting Christ, or “casting ou

3,

spiritualistic or psychic.

This delving into the darkness of the human
mind by the" psychiatrist with inadequate knowl—
edge is somewhat dangerous. There is today a
great fear of psycho-analysis, lest the power dis-
covered be too great for the frail emotional wires
builded for a weaker current to Withstand. Event-
ually the scientific technique will be perfected,
however, and made available to the common man.

At present it can, at its best, reach only a small
few.

It remains then for the leaders of growth,
through school or leisure time activities, to dis-
cover some less complete but scientific approaches
to the problem which will go a little way on the
road to the development of supermen and women
as -a norm of existence. Two great experiments'
are being tried here and there, with inadequatet
understanding of the implications and none too
intelligent leadership. These two alone will we
mention in this article: the use of the free discus-:
sion method of education for adults.and creative

i

expression for child and adult. Kill

 

TAPPINQ‘ [‘10. M.

Education for Adults

\Ve are still impregnated with the .virus of facts,
and with those adults who in their free time come
. to evening classes eager for learning and some
‘ solution of their bOredom there has been a con-
' tinuation of the “pouring in” process. The rea-
'sons are obvious. The leaders available are the
teachers already in our public schools and trained
for a classroom procedure. Then, may I repeat,
mentally we are a lazy people. It is far easier to
‘ teach history by a textbook and examination
method than to face the sometimes confusing facts
and questions that will inevitably come out of the
living experience of grown men and women
where freedom of discussion is given. Leaders
are still afraid to say “I don’t know” and to seek
together for the truth. Are they afraid to lose the
domination upon which they have heretofore
relied?

Still another deterrent to a more complete use
of discussion is the time element. Growth is slow
and none too regular. The awareness of the timid
little man who sits in a group for a year before he
evolves an idea and gains the courage to express
I it, is vital to his development and may add to the
sum total of human knowledge, but in the wait for
this one moment there is weariness and labor.

0
r "

fax . J‘):; I

‘s ..
Courtesy Childhood Education

L
4

- . . w- Put! Mr

213

um Lllk uLllL‘T hand. the results are well worth
the weariness and the labor: for while in the
academic method of adult education the learning
process tends to stop at the door of the classroom
—if, in truth, it ever entered—that man or woman
who takes part wholeheartedly in grOUp discus-
sion is stimulated to continue his research, for his
questions are never wholly answered for him. He
is left by the true leader of discussion with a
challenge to find out for himself the answer which
he seeks. To point the road to learning, unafraid
that the goal attained may be one foreign to the

experience of the leader; to trust fully the in-
tegrity of mind, the possibility for growth in the
human being, this it is which must be.the chief
ability of the leader of the future, particularly in
the field of adult education. When the American
or the European or the Oriental mind is truly free
to seek far and find all the facts about a moot
question, I am not fearful of the results. The only
real danger lies in an attempt to predigest and pre-
determine the bits of knowledge that the adult is
to be given.

In minor degree this is also true of the educa-
tion, through school or play, of the child. we are
still seeing bogey-men. still afraid to trust the free

 

214 TAPPING THE RESERVES OF POWER

mind to adjust itself to
changing situations; still
routing heavy emotional
voltage over wires small and
inadequate; still refusing to
release the true power in
any but the exceptional
child. These fears are ju-
venile and unworthy of true
leaders of growth.

Creative Expression

The second method which
is open to recreation leaders
in particular, as it is to parents, is the under-
standing use of creative expression. The word
understanding has been used with intent, for we
have reached a point in school and playground
and home, where the term “creative” has become
jargon. To copy the work of another is not to
create. Yet there are today, meeting here and
there over the land, hundreds of children in 'class-
rooms, sitting hunched over a table, all with the
same size papers, the same pencils, the same order
for production, the same model and the same
standard, offered by a superior being called a

teacher or playground director, without choice by
the child.

I have visited classes called “creative hours” to
which the little child went reluctantly, and from
which he emerged unrefreshed, tired, full of
hatred for creative expression. It may be you

have entered a poetry class, where the” teacher,” "ff-i, Within himself- .15 he tgsly intereStEd in his iOb
, ~  hetalert, with.~sufflcieht intelligence to read an

mittee for mass production, tells the class to write a. ‘ .Jliiders‘land 21' few experts in creative play? Ha

with a program prescribed by a curriculum com-

a poem about a flower in fifteen fninutes. The re-
sult is twenty-five jingles with'no possible re-
semblance to poetry, but with second and fourth
lines rhyming beautifully—an. exercise, if you
please, in agility, but not in creative expression.
Yet it is not the exceptional child alone who writes
lovely verse, but the ordinary girl and boy of five,
or eleven, or fourteen, who has been familiar
from his birth with beauty, has not been frighten—

ed, who has heard his Stevenson and his Field, ,

and who has ’time enough to himself to think nat-
urally in rhythm- (but not always in rhyme). Few
true artists ever paint or write or compose to
order, but out of their experience, with exposure
to the best in their line, and some training; even
more important, with much encouragement to im-
prove and to measure up to their own standards.
This procedure. like the discusion method for

"Creative expression is a sound line of ex-
ploration into the hidden powers of human
beings. He who creates any bit of beauty
out of himself becomes for the time a god.
Can you forget the face of the urchin who
gathers a handful of clay on the mountain
side and fashions therefrom a horse or a
figure of Pan? Have you never felt the
surge of new strength when out of struggle
and suffering you have iotted down a com-
bination of words which is your own and fill-
ed with life's rhythm? Perhaps it is better in
many cases that no one shall ever see it. The
effort to meet the standard of some one else
too frequently kills the spirit of the venture."

adults, is the difficult wa
and takes much time an
effort. There must be a ne

alignment of emphasis, wit
production in quantity les
important, with exposure t
the good continuous an
consistent, with l e a d e r
trained to be true teacher
who know the technique 0
leading out, rather tha
copying or pouring in. T

degree today signifies f
miliarity with book fact
but not necessarily with living experience. As th
requirements for a degree increasingly inclu
familiarity with the laws of growth, then the

will be new meaning to the term “trained leade

ship,” and we may with safety demand degree
from those who deal with children. At presen
however, the success or failure of a director 0
recreation or a teacher in the development of emo
tional power in individual children, is a matter 0
understanding and of personality, rather than de
grees, and we shall be wise if we place the majo
emphasis on the content of the training. '

i

What of the Recreation Leader?

A new play instructor comes in my neighbor
hood. The first thing he requires is equipmen
Yet the true play leader requires little tangibl ,
equipment. His equipment should lie more full I

  
   
  
     
  
  

he the' power of analysis which will enable hi
to read the meanings of experience? Has he ‘
deep humility and an understanding of the possi
bilities of actual knowledge (from where, Heave
knows) which the youngest child possesses
Plato told us that the only true philosopher was .
little child. Yet adults go about proving their su
periority, forgetting to learn from the- child a
they run. '

To create anything is to grow, to adventure, 0'
feel success and power and a measure of securit I
——almost the whole need of human beings. T
lead a child or an adult to create beauty is t
share in that great power which moves the world‘
The playgroun,d leader has a great opportunity t
discover the reserves which will guide peopl
through economic depressions. To deveIOp thi

(Continued 1m page 258) ,€~l

l
i

 

 

We went to Atlantic City!

HE TWENTY-SECOND National
Recreation Congress was all
and more than it promised to be!
From the first moment one set foot in the lobby
of the popular Ambassador Hotel in Atlantic City
up to the final farewell at the end of the much-
too—short conference, public recreation, its contri-
butions and problems, led the way. The Congress
itself was ample evidence that its planners chose a
perfect theme in “The Importance of Recreation
in Modern Life.”

“The \Vorld’s Greatest Playground,” as Atlan-
tic City is so frequently labeled, with its eight
miles of boardwalk and the blue Atlantic at its
feet is attraction enOUgh for anyone, whether he
be interested in recreation or not. No wonder
then that hundreds of men and women, connected
with or interested in the recreation movement,
from every corner of the United States and
Canada made their way toward this famous resort.

That the Congress was as practical as it was in-
spirational was noticeable through the common
denominator in recreation problems from recrea-
tion executives all over the nation. And although
hundreds of these “stickers” were similar in na-
ture, the answers were by no means universal-—a
situation which to the observer appears to reflect
a healthy condition of the recreation movement
and a worthy instrument in the Congress in broad—
casting it.

The meeting had its list of celebrities, all of
whom earned their way on the program not only
because of their outstanding personalities. but be-
cause they had a sympathetic understanding and
appreciation of the objectives of public recrea—
tion, and because they are leaders in this business
of life. Dr. John Finley, in
his role of general meeting
chairman, added that cer-
tain warmth that so many
of us would travel thou-
sands of miles to feel. Gov.
Harold G. Hoffman was
present to envelop the dele-
gates with the hospitality
that his State is called on so
often to give. Dr. James S.
Plant, Aubrey Williams, Dr.
Edwin C. Broome and those
two well-known professional

By CHARLES K. BRIGHTBILL

We wanted our readers to have a bird's-
oye view of the National Recreation Con-
gress at Atlantic City, so we asked Mr.
Brightbill. Superintendent of Public Recrea-
tion in Decatur, Illinois, to send us some of
his impressions of the Congress. Mr. Bright-
bill, in his account, says that a volume might
be written on the proceedings of the Con-
gress. A volume has been written and is
now ready for distribution. In ,it you will
find the addresses of the general meetings
and the summaries of the group discussion _ _
sessions. Order your copy of the Congress 161118 0f recreatlon. Thls

Proceedings. it may be secured for $l.00.

executives, V. K. Brown of Chi-
cago and Ernst Hermann of Bos-
ton University, were among the
persons delivering keynote messages. Rabbi Abba
Hillel S'ilver returned to his third recreation con—
gress to deliver a most interesting address on
“Life in a W’orld of Confusion.” Among others,
Mrs. Mina M. Edison-Hughes told the delegates
why she believed in the National Recreation As—
sociation. It was a splendid contribution, touch-
ing upon that which so many of us know but
seldom think about—that the National Recreation
Association stands alone in the incomparable con-
tributions it makes to the recreation movement.

As in former years, the work of the Congress
for the most part was conducted in discussion
groups, each with a qualified presiding officer, sev—
eral discussion leaders and a summarizer. “Recre-
ation Requirements. for Modern Youth,” “Recre-
ation in American Family Life,” “Present Prob—
lems in Rural Recreation,” “Camping in the Rec—
reation Program,” “Program Planning,” “What
Legislative Action Is Necessary for Adequate
Recreation Service Today?” “General Tax Prob-
lems.” “Federal Grants,” “Personnel Problems,”
“Emergency Recreation Programs,” and a num—
ber of others were among the twenty—six topics
scheduled for discussion. (The writer says“sched-
uled for discussion” because there were probably
twenty—six hundred informal discussions in little
groups that gathered outside of the regular meet-
ings.) The National Recreation Congress could
be justified alone on its affording a time and place
where one meets old friends, sees new faces and
finds attentive ears.

Perhaps one of the most outstanding sessions
from the standpoint of

growth of interest on the
part of the layman or un-
paid worker was that of
“Problems of Board Mem~
- bers,” conducted, organized
and operated by board mem-
bers from various sections
of the country—people who
left their daily positions,
journeying hundreds of
miles to discuss the prob-

meeting was “the top.” The

215

21h

old "bugaboo” of board members remaining too
long at one post and the part politics should and
should not play in the work, came in for a bom—
bardment of discussion. And new social trends as
they affected public recreation were as evident
here as they were elsewhere.

It would be just a bit misleading to leave the
reader with an impression that the Congress was
all “business.” for recreation executives lean to-
ward recreation for themselves occasionally. Thus,
twenty or thirty minutes before the convening of

the general assembly each day, Mr. Augustus.

Zanzig, the National Staff music specialist, waved
his hands, struck
a chord, and the
entire Congress
keyed itself for
the evening to
the tune of “Ciri-
biribin” and

OPPORTUNITIES (a
IN THE RIGHT

IVE WENT TO ATLANTIC CITY!

persons eager to absorb its contents. The govern-
mental agencies, manufacturers and miscellaneous
exhibitors displayed their wares in keeping with
the theme and good taste of the Congress. The
writer, as usual, returned from these booths with
stacks of literature and new ideas to keep him
busy six months.

One could write a dictionary-size volume on the
proceedings of this year’s meeting, and two on the
value of it, but must be content to say that with
the government’s part in the recreation picture,
with the constant economic and social future of
the nation presenting new and different problems

  
 
 

“Shortnin’
Bread.” Then,

too, Tuesday eve—
ning, after the

 
   

 

  

will 150F1- BALL L AGUES:

 

 

vlph' . ‘7-
_.‘:'v' . MBOWLING
loift'l'.’ I 7

 

 

evening pro—
gram,an hour of
social recreation
activities was
held in the ho-
tel’s beautiful
R e n a i s sa n c e
Room. Also on "-'
the Congress’s
social schedule
was the dance
held the following evening (and there were no wall-
iiowers !). Not satisfied with a few hours of “trip-
ping the light fantastic,” twenty or thirty remained
after the orchestra disbanded and gathered about
the piano to revive vocally “Down By the Old
Mill Stream,” “On the Road to Mandalay,” and
a number of the other well known airs. ‘
If you were one of those who arose with the
morning sun, you rode a bicycle on the board-
walk, a pony on the beach, or perhaps, you dipped
in the Ambassador’s salt water pool. These many
recreational opportunities made it easy to believe
that the place was “the world’s playground.”
More attractive than ever were the Congress’s
exhibits. The National office presented a beauti-
ful and practical display of records, reports and
forms from local communities, access to which
was difficult most the time because of the many

   
 
 

SUMMER

   

_ ’ Io”'.
.

BA‘SKETBALL

GYMNASIUM CLASSES

G A H E. 3- -. 89°   '

I
‘.‘..’I

   

     
    

H‘s-REE $HowER BATHS ':_ ;_ BoxINC-tgfgég'ggygig;

Much of the discussion at the Recreation
Congress was directed toward finding the
best means of providing recreational op-
portunity for boys and girls' and of open-
ing for them the door to happier living.

in the life of this fast-growing infant, public rec-
reation, and with a million and one new challenges
and questions of jurisdiction facing the nation to—
day, one knows at a glance that recreation has an
important place in our modern life and the Na-
tional Recreation Congress this year was perme-
ated with the very essence of it.

. NOTE: The illustration which appears on this page is
used through the courtesy of the Recreation Commission
of Two Rivers, Wisconsin.

 

,l

t

A.
l

r!

\.

f

j' N. MONDAY, MAY I 7th,pre-
l O ceding the opening of the

Recreation Congress at
Atlantic City, an all day meet-
ing of superintendents of rec-
reation was held for the dis-
 cussion of subjects which the
executives had themselves selected. This year the

I plan was followed of having one chairman for all
the sessions throughout the day. V. K. Brown,
Chief, Recreation Division of the Chicago Park
District, presided at all the meetings.

  
   

What Should Be the Scope of a Recreation
Department? What Should Come
Under Its/Jurisdiction?

\V ALTER SCOTT, Coordinating Director for
' School and Municipal Recreation, Long Beach,
California: \Vhen we talk about the scope of the
recreation department, I think we are bound down
to a certain extent by tradition and by practice,
' sometimes by prejudices and sometimes by sys-
tents of cost accounting which embarrass us when
rwe take on too much of a pr0gram. Perhaps the
best way to discuss this is to analyze critically
each of these various activities that we have in
our minds from four viewpoints:
' First, is it primarily a Recreation Department
1. function?

Second, by what agency can this particular
:thing that we have in mind be best administered,
.1" by a park commission, park board, board of edu-
cation, recreation commission or whatnot?

Third, would duplication of effort be curtailed
if this new activity were taken over by the recre-
5' ation department?

Fourth, if this activity were added to your de-
partment, what would this do to your per capita
, cost and to your unit of recreation cost? \Vhen‘
you have to talk to city man-‘ i
agers and commissions and

On finance, "trends," needs
ot youth, workers' salaries
and a hundred and one other
matters of mutual interest!

0

The Recreation Executives Confer

I 55,000 population, the munici-
pal recreation budget for next
year is going to be $126,000.
That will mean a per capita
cost of approximately 81 cents.
City managers, councilmen,
commissioners, boards of edu-
cation, have the habit very frequently of asking,
“What are your per capita costs?” It is very nice
to say 81 cents, but it would be very embarrassing
to say $2. 50, especially if your neighboring city
of comparable size has a per capita cost of 60 cents.

Let us see what happens when we take over a
lot of these services. In this case, as we have said,
the recreation budget for next year will be
$126,000. The park budget for maintenance will
be $95,000, the lifeguard service $50,000, the mu-
nicipal paid band $60,000 and the golf expendi-
tures in the neighborhood of $50,000, or a total
of $381,000, all for recreation in that city of
1 5 5,000.

Now, you see, if you went before your Board,
you would be embarrassed by saying the per
capita cost for recreation in this city of 155,000
is $2.45. Let us say golf is a form of recreation
which tends to balance because the income and ex-
penditures are nearly equal. Let us take golf out
of that picture and reduce it, and the cost will
still be over $2 per capita, in other words, ex-
actly $2.13.

But here is the point: In that city today, they
are able to say to the Council and these govern-
ment agencies that the per capita cost for recrea-
tion in this city is only 81 cents, because they do
not have to pay for the maintenance of parks, the
service of the lifeguards, the professional band or
the golf course. Let us analyze these activities
quickly from the viewpoint of whether or not we

should take them over.
Golf: Should recreation de-

partments be responsible for

This year. as in past years, the

 

councils about the money, it be-
comes a little different story.

I want to give you just this
thought with reference to what
it does to costs and then attack
the problem from a slightly dif-
. ferent angle. I know that in a
certain Western city of roughlV

plan was followed at the meeting
of superintendents ot recreationI
of having each subject presented
by a recreation executive. This
presentation was then followed by
as much general discussion as time
would permit. We have attempted
in this report to give the salient

'points brought up by the group.

golf? Well, first of all, let us
submit it to our four tests. It
is primarily a recreation. Sec-
ond, it perhaps could be best
administered by a municipal
recreation department, in some
cases by park boards. Third,
some duplication of effort no

217

218 THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES CONFER

doubt would be eliminated in many communities
if it were taken over by the recreation depart-
ment. Fourth, what does it do to your cost? In
the average Western community today, I think
that the cost tends to balance. In one city I know
of, of about 160,000, the income is $50,000 a year
and the outgo is $49,000 a year. Therefore, I
would say golf probably could very nicely come
within the scope of a municipal recreation de-
partment.

Now, about the general maintenance of the_

parks. First of all, submit it to the four tests. Is
the maintenance of parks primarily a recreation
function? I would say it is not. Second, how
could the maintenance of parks be best adminis-
tered? Probably by a park commission or a park
board. Third, would any friction or duplication
of effort be avoided if it were taken over by the
municipal department? I would say yes, in many
cases. Fourth, how would it affect your cost in
recreation, your unit cost and your per capita
cost? In our community it would practically double
them. \Vhere we have about 75 cents per capita
today, it would be about $1.50 if we took over
the maintenance of parks. Therefore, I personally
am satisfied to leave the maintenance of parks
where it is, with the Park Board.

Next, the question of piers comes up. Should a
recreation department take over piers? Piers
usually are not primarily recreational facilities. In
some places where they have fishing piers, I find
instances in which they have recreational facilities
and commercial attractions. Would friction be
avoided if we took them over? I think we would
get a lot of friction in many cases by taking them
over. \Vhat does it do to our cost? It is almost a
dead loss because if any of you know how rapidly
deterioration sets in and you also know what that
will do to your per capita cost. Therefore I say
piers should be left out and taken care of perhaps
by the public service department of the city or by
other bodies.

The next item is, public dances. we do not
conduct the publicdance. \Ve are supported by an
automatic tax levy and there are a good many
commercial dance hall interests which pay taxes
to help support us. The time is not yet ready to
take over that service. We feel that we could do
a better job than most commercial interests are

doing in many cases, and the young people per- I

haps would like it better, but we have to keep
hands off for the time being. Where we can con-
duct these community dances without creating

friction in the community we should perhaps do so.

How. about trailer camps? In some communi-
ties where they cater to-tourists they are main-
taining them. In most communities they are say-
ing that it is a private business and we should

keep hands off.

How about zoos? They are in the class of mu-
seums and they are too expensive for us to take
over because it would double, if not triple, our
recreational costs.

Lifeguards, bands (municipal and private),
bath houses and cabanas, restaurant concessions,
classes in tap dancing, social dancing, folk dancing;
What should be the scope of this thing we call
municipal recreation? It is a deep subject, but I
say that when in doubt take over only those things
that meet the four tests: is it primarily a recrea-
tion function; second, does it do funny things to
your recreation costs and thereby defeat your
whole program; third, are you including a great
many things on which you cannot do a first-class
job. In other words, let us keep quality as a ma-
jor consideration and let us work in harmony with
other boards and commissions as long as we have
to do so, and up to the point where it becomes
reasonable and feasible for us to take over these
different types of activity.

Following Mr. Scott’s paper there was some
discussion of the subject as to whether recreation
departments are justified in setting up types of
activities which are not generally regarded as rec-
reational. It was the feeling of the meeting that
any interpretation of recreation must cover the
use of leisure time for intellectual satisfaction as
well as for motive or creative satisfactions. The
interpretation of recreation in relation to intel-
lectual satisfaction is a matter which will evolve
over‘ the years.

What Is the Trend in the Administration of
Public Recreation?

W. DUNCAN RUSSELL, General Director, Com-
munity Service of Boston: The conservative
point of view, of course, is that it does not make
very much difference. As long as the best inter-
ests of the pe0ple of a given community are be-
ing served, one type of administration is as good
as another. On the other hand, I think if the ex-
ecutives found that any particular type of agency
was not doing the job to meet the best interests
of the people of a given community. then it would

 

  
  
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
    
   
 
   
  
 
 
     
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
   
  

l . . .
I ' e Important to make some dec1310n as to the type

, f agency to be doing the job.

. I have divided the subject into two divisions:
ine, trends in fact, and two, trends in thinking.
he facts show a trend towards administration of
1 creation by school boards and a slight decline
I» the part of all other types of agencies. I will
ve you the facts.

In 1930, there were 233 cities that showed rec—
ation administered by recreation boards or com-
issions. In 1936, there was a decrease to 225.
I 1930, 234 cities showed administration of rec-
ation by park authorities as compared with 208
"ties in 1936. In 1930, there were 29 cities re-
rting administration by park and recreation
boards and in 1936, 28. In 1930, there were 141
lefties which reported administration of recreation
by school boards and in 1936, 197 cities or an in-
crease of 58. Now, these facts especially as they
elate to park boards are not entirely convincing
ecause in 1936 park authorities were called upon
0 make another report for the municipal park
udy. I
' There are other hgures which show the increase
decrease in the number of cities reporting one
more full-time workers employed by different
pes of agencies. In general, all types of agencies
port an increase between 1930 and 1936 in the
., Imber of cities that have one or more full-time
creation workers employed by these different
’pes of authorities, except the recreation boards,
hich were fewer by one in 1936.
When it comes to the question of trends in
linking on this matter of administration of public
creation, I am in a fairly good position to know
ow our educators and superintendents of schools
e thinking about the school in the administra-
on of recreation, because about a month and a
alf ago I sat in with the Educational Policies
‘ ommission in Washington and heard discussed
1e relationship between education and recreation.
' I came there fully prepared to say, naively, that
nce the schools were still engaged in training
f rocesses for the most part, perhaps from the
andpoint of administration of recreation, they
dught to stick to that part of recreation which
deals with training, training for leisure. We give
them the after-school play and the recess play; We
might give them the children during the summer
ltime, but the training process is involved. How-
ever, I was very quickly told in Washington by
the educators that education was rapidly getting
away from the training process and that it would

. 1

l

 
 

1

 

THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES CONFER

219

only be a short time before you could not dis-
tinguish between the educational approach and
recreational approach. One speaker went so far
as to say that education ought to control just
about everything in our municipal government ex-
cept public works, possibly, and police and fire,
but certainly the libraries and recreation and any-

thing that touched on education from childhood
to old age.

So we have a definite trend in thinking on the
part of educators which gives recreation to the
school systems, not because they are particularly
well prepared for it now but on the ground that
they are rapidly getting away from education as
a training process and they are approaching their
duty idealistically. Education is living and we
ought to put recreation there because ultimately it
belongs there and ultimately it will get there.

The trend away from school control is sup-
ported by the fact that education will be stamped
with the training process during our lifetimes and
possibly during the next fifty years. As such, it
is psychologically Opposed to the recreational ap-
proach which is stamped with the good time or
the play atmosphere. Education is geared to a
system of measured results and even our most
prOgressive schools are a little wary of going too
far with this idea of freedom for fear some of
their students will not pass the college board
examinations.

What is the trend towards control by public
welfare boards, as advocated by many experts in
municipal government? Now, from our experi—
ence with public welfare boards, the role that they
usually play is that of overseers of the. poor, hand-
ing out of direct relief, so I can hardly see why
we should consider that recreation should be at—
tached to a public welfare board, if it functions
in that way.

However, if we consider public welfare from
the standpoint of the general community good,
the interpretation that possibly the Constitution of
the United States would put on it in speaking of
public welfare—and they are talking in Washing—
ton of setting up a definite department, possibly
a,cabinet position, on public welfare—perhaps we
recreation executives would be wise if we looked
with more favor on administration of recreation
by public welfare boards. Undoubtedly if such a
department were started, there would be a divi-
sion on recreation. We would have an opportunity
to secure a more dignified position for recreation,

220 THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES CONFER

gaining more recognition and appreciation for the
field as a separate entity in itself.

Another trend in thinking is the trend towards
park control, especially where a park department
is a park and recreation board, giving equal em-
phasis to recreation as to the horticultural aspect
of the park program. This trend of thinking is
found particularly in small towns where it .has
worked well. However, in large cities we have
had some pretty bad experiences. In some in-
stances, during the depression, when park execu-
tives were put right “on the spot” they had to de—
cide whether they considered horticulture or
human use their primary function. In a good
many instances, when cuts in the budget were
considered, the cuts were made in the human use
side and recreation has suffered. They thereby
admitted that human use, or the recreation side of
their responsibility, was secondary.

You are familiar with the trend in thinking to-
wards control by the so—called recreation commis-
sion. I am more familiar with that because we
are thinking somewhat in that way in New Eng-
land. Where a city has four or five different de—
partments, all either controlling recreational fa-
cilities or administering programs in recreation,
none of which feels that recreation is its primary
responsibility, and you get no coordination and no

concerted effort on the part of these different de—.

partments, then it seems to me that the only sal-
vation of cities of that kind is the recreation
commission.

Now, I have not gone into any detail on the
relative merits of administration by different types
of agencies because you know those arguments as
well as I do and I believe that the National Recre-
ation Association has printed a bulletin, a very
comprehensive bulletin, which covers all those
arguments. But I should say in summary that in
both trends in fact and trends in thinking, we find
the school boards gradually taking an increasingly
important part in the control of recreation.

 

In the discussion which followed Miss Sibyl
Baker, Supervisor of Playgrounds, Washington,
D. C., made the suggestion that it might be desir-
able to have information regarding the size of the
communities reporting forms of administration.
“Isn’t it reasonable,” she asked, “that in a small
city the school board might be able to operate the
recreation system, whereas in a large city it could
not handle the entire recreation program? Do
these statistics perhaps mean that an increasing

number of the smaller cities are developing recre-
ation through their school boards?”
George D. Butler, Department of Research of

the National Recreation Association, pointed out
that the seeming increase in school administration
reflects the opening up of a number of school cen-
ters or of school grounds in the summer time al-;
though the bulk of the funds for such servicd
came from outside the community. Much morei
important, he felt, from the standpoint of admin1
istration trends than the number of communitie
reporting in the Year Book is the number of agen
cies which consider recreation important enoug
to justify the employment of at least one perso
on a full time basis. These figures show a very
small change in this respect over a period of si
years. There is very little to indicate that as far .
as the basic administration of recreation goe ‘
there has been any considerable shifting over fro
one form to another during the past six or mor
years.

  
   
   
 
   
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  

How Do the Recreational Activities Offered thl
Teen Age Boy and Girl Meet the Needs
of Present Day Youths?

RUTH SWEZEY, Executive Director, Playground I
and Recreation Association of I/Vyoming Valley
Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania: The school is on
of the agencies that takes care of the teen age.
The extra—curricular topics and subjects take
care of at least a great number of them. But we
find in the Recreation Department in VVilkes-‘
Barre we have more trouble with the teen age in
high school, and more youngsters coming before
the Saturday morning court who are in school
than with those who have gotten past that stage.

The chiJrch probably has somewhal the same
experience. Last week I attended a church con-
ference which reached probably one hundred and
fifty different churches. Those young people ad
mitted very freely that their great trouble was
lack of leadership, and that they could operate a
great deal better program with their young peo-
ple if they could have trained leaders. Their other
major problem was that their boys and young
men were dropping out of their activities.

The character-building agencies probably do one
of the best jobs with the teen age, but the great
difficulty is that most of them are membershipsi
agencies and most of them are sectarian. Fori
some reason or other there is a great number of i.
young people that are not reached through the;
character-building division, so it throws the re-f

\‘

a
I

, Sponsibility back again on the municipal depart—

c  This spring, in asking questions to find out just
” what we could do with youth, the thing that im-
pressed me was that they seemed to have no fee]-
ing of certainty about themselves. Most of them
answered their questions, “I don’t know.” They
had no very definite training and interest along
the line of recreation. There were some three
hundred young people in that group and they were
mostly the lower type of trained youngster. _ I
think we are not giving an adequate recreational
program to the teen age of that stratum of
’people.
Most of you have doubtless read the report that
I the National Recreation Association made in 1934
(of the ways in which individuals spend their lei-
sure time. The Association tried to find out what
young pe0ple were doing in their leisure time and
they found out through this survey that three-
fourths of them were doing passive things in their
leisure time, such as reading the paper,listening to
the radio and going to the movies. We made an-
other survey of what. young people would do if
they could do what they wanted to do, and we
- found that swimming headed the list with tennis
«next, and other outdoor activities. The whole
i trend showed that young people, if they could do
what they wanted to do, would do the active thing
and the gregarious thing that at present the ma-
'Ijority of them were not doing. I think there
should be more camping out, more hiking and
I more swimming and more tennis for this age
. group. The development of the county park sys—
'. tem is doing perhaps as much as any one thing to-
ward giving the general group of young people an
opportunity for these activities free. Of course,
' the municipal park is free, too, but they need to
get out more than they do into the open and into
natural surroundings, and until we can furnish
' that type of opportunity for all young people it
I does not seem to me that we have really accom-
'v plished what we are trying to do.

     

 

Following Miss Swezey’s talk, V. K. Brown
cited Dr. Arthur E. Morgan of the TVA as say—
ing that in his opinion the recreation movement is
meaning for youth the addition of the cultural
heritage which will counteract the poverty of
youth’s resources and of impulses to activity.
Josephine D. Randall, Superintendent of Recre-
ation, San Francisco, told of the reply of a gang
of boys who had proved troublesome to the ques—

THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES CONFER 221

tion, “If you had a playground in this neighbor-
hood what would you like to have?” “First a
swimming pool,” the boys said, “and then a: place
where we can make things.”

Cecil Martin, Superintendent of Recreation,
Pasadena, California, described how his city had
attacked the problem through cooperative effort.
All of the vice—principals in the schools in charge
of extra-curricular activities, all of the executives
of the character building agencies, the coordinat—
ing directors of physical education and recreation
for the city, a representative of the Police Depart-
ment and the deputy superintendent in charge of
curricula in the schools worked together until fa-
cilities, which in Mr. Martin’s opinion are about
95 per cent adequate, were provided. The city
sends out a “floating supervisor” to meet the
gangs where they are and bring them into the
program.

The chairman, summing up the discussion, said
he believes the necessary enrichment program for
youth is just beginning and undoubtedly as our
concept grows there will be additional supplemen-
tation in the form of workshops for arts and
crafts and of athletic fields, play areas and camps.

Wage Scales for Employees of Recreation
Departments

R. W. CAMMACK, Superintendent of Recrea-
tion, Mount Vernon, New York: Last summer,
the Mayor appointed a special committee to study
salaries and salary adjustments of various mu-
nicipal departments. We were asked to make a
study and submit a report on the salaries paid to
our various employees. We did this and presented
a thirteen-page report in which we listed the posi-
tions, the incumbents, the years employed, the pay
in 1936, the pay listed in 1929, the salaries recom-
mended for 1937, the yearly increase and the
range of salaries that was recommended by the
commission. Then we gave a whole page to a
complete detail of the training experience and
duties and assignments of each of our full-time
workers. I will admit that I was surprised to find
how much work and how many duties during the
course of the year we were putting on the should-
ers of our athletic supervisors, our women’s su-
pervisors, boys’ director and all of our full-time
workers. It opened the eyes of the committee
studying the salary adjustment situation in the
city and I believe it will prove to be helpful.

You may be interested in the part-time salaries

'of the workers. Our summer playground direct-

222 THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES CONFER

ors, for instance, begin with $18 a week for 36%
hours a week. They range from $18 up to $25 a
week, which makes their rate of pay vary from
50 cents an hour up to 68 cents an hour. Our fall
playground directors are paid from 50 to 60 cents
an horir. Our evening center directors are paid
$2 per evening. In some places where they are
required to have technical training, they are paid
$2.50 an evening. That is at the rate of 80 to 83
cents an hour. Our referees in the industrial and
senior basketball leagues get $ 3 for two games in
an evening. Referees in the junior league get $2
for refereeing two games in an evening. The
scorers in all leagues get $1.50 for an evening’s
work. The supervisors in charge of the crowds
receive $2 per evening; locker room attendants,
$1.50 per evening.

As’ for our baseball officials, the umpires in the
senior league get $2 per game; in the industrial
league, $1.50; in the soft ball league, $1.50; for
junior and midget games, $1.00 per game. Scorers
get $1. 50 for two games. The scorers’ supervisor
in the senior league gets $1.00 for one game. The
laborers that are at the athletic fields are given
about 50 cents an hour.

Another question you may wish to discuss is
the comparison of our rate of pay for our civil
service workers with the rate of pay paid by the
relief workers. It is a problem that we all have to
consider, to see that our own civil service workers
who are trained and who have passed examina-
tions are not paid too much less than the untrain-
ed relief workers who come to us to do the same
sort of work.

There is another question that was discussed at
considerable length among the Westchester County
executives, and that was the scale of pay paid to
those who are athletic directors or playground
directors, in comparison to the pay allowed voca-
tional workers, those who are trained to teach
arts and crafts and drama and other specialized
departments of our work. The latter were getting
a higher rate of pay than the former and we did
not see how a good coach should not be paid as
much as a good art teacher.

We feel that it is worthwhile to submit and
make public a detailed report of training experi-
ence and duties of all playground and recreation
employees. It would be advisable to make a care—
ful adjustment between WPA salaries and civil
service salaries. Until the salaries are adequate,

the best will not be attracted to the recreation
profession.

  
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
    
 
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
  

In the discussion of this subject it was pointe
out that directors in charge of the social center
conducted by the New York Board of Educatio
are paid $4.50 in the less difficult problem center
and as much as $6.00 in the centers whe
greater executive abilities are called for. Teacher
are paid $3.75 a night and they work from two t
four nights a week.

The discrepancy between the salaries paid pla
ground directors-and laborers was discussed. 0
the playgrounds maintained by the Park Depar
ment of New York City the salary schedule r
cently announced would give an average of abo
$3.85 a day to year-round civil service play d
rectors. A part-time director or temporary d
rector would receive $4.50 a day, while a pla,
ground maintenance worker“ or laborer would re
ceive $5.50 a day. It is becoming increasingl
urgent that a scale of salaries be arrived at whic
will attract and hold good workers.

Pittsburgh, it was reported, has taken steps t
solve the problem. Recently when the rate of pa
was raised in the mills of Pittsburgh, the questio
arose among city officials as to whether it woul
be possible to secure the number of laborers nec
essary for work in the various departments. T
meet the situation the pay of laborers was'raise
in the park department, the recreation departmen
and other departments of public works to th
level of that which the workers were receivin
in the mills. At the same time the workers in th
Bureau of Recreation .whose salaries had been cu
during the years of depression and those receivin
less than $1,650 a year were raised 10 per cent

those paid over this amount received a 62/3 pe
cent increase.

Are Local City Governments Increasing Funds to
Recreation? How Have Increases Been

Brought About?

C. E. BREWER, Commissioner of Recreation,
Detroit, Michigan: The records show that in
1921, 323 municipal departments and 193 private
organizations hnanced recreation programs. In
1935, 809 municipal departments and 182 private
agencies were supporting recreation. The number
of cities that were supporting year-round recrea—l
tion programs through public funds in 1930 was
239. Sixty-five communities supported recreation‘
through private agencies. But in 1935 we find that
the number of cities had increased to 252,-whil
the private agencies decreased to 58. Hence, th
figures evidently indicate that even during the de—



THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES CONFER 223

,I pression years the number of cities financing a
" recreation program has increased while those of
private agencies has decreased.

I In Detroit, in the last three years, we have
I doubled our appropriation for recreation pur-
poses. '\Ve were decreased, during the depression,
from $850,000 to $265,000 over night. But we
have gone back up. This year we will have an
appropriation of $568,000. The induction salary
of our recreation instructors has been raised from
$1,560 to $1,860 a year, ‘which is higher than the
induction salary of the public schools, going up to
senior instructors at $2,340, community house
supervisors $2,280 to $2,640, the assistant direct—
ors of recreation $2,640 to $3,000; the director of
recreation $3,200 to $3,740. The supervisor of
competitive athletics receives $3,000 to $3,540 per

‘ year. Steps of $120 are granted each year from
the minimum to the maximum for salaries under

' $3,000 and $180 per year for salaries over $3,ooo.

. We work only five days a week and the Coun-
cil gave us a raise in salary, so, we are getting
more money than we did before the depression
and doing less work. However, the Council con—
cluded that it had done as much as it could and
did not give a 16% per cent increase in workers
to take up this one day off a week, so it makes it
quite a problem to run the department on seven
days a week with a five-day week staff.

In securing public funds for support I think a
good many of us make the mistake of selling it on
one feature, a-special part of the program. We
should sell the program on the general, all-round
basis that we are doing an all-round full pro-

. gram of activities for adults as well as for chil-
dren. Too many of us, I think leave the adult
I out of the program. You are not going to get all
I the support that you should get unless you 'do in-
clude the adult in your system of recreation. The
money comes from the taxpayers, from the
I ' pockets of the adult. Therefore, if you make the
adult feel that he is getting something out of the
. money that he is contributing to recreation pur-
‘ poses, when the tax bills come around he is not
going to grumble at the amount of money which

is being spent for recreation purposes.

You must build your budget on a businesslike,
efficient basis. You. have almost to be able to tell
to the penny how you intend to spend the money,
if you get it, and then be able to convince your

I appropriating bodies that the money is going to be
spent wisely.

Whenever we have a particular problem that
must be brought up, we always go back to the
community that is going to be benefited and let
them solve it. If you want a community building
of three or four hundred thousand dollars in a
community, if you can get twenty-five or thirty
organizations to send in letters or appear down at
a public hearing and talk on one item, you will be
surprised to see how much effect it does have
upon those people in the Council who do have the
final say upon your budget.

Naturally, of course, with the increased leisure,
the demands upon recreation departments will in—
crease. So it behooves all of us recreation execu-
tives to pay particular attention to the methods
whereby we can increase our budgets, and the
only way that I know of to enlarging our budgets
and getting increases each year, is to sell our pro—
gram to all of the people in a community, and to
make all them a part of our program.

Do Recent Increases in Facilities Make Imperative
in Most Cities Increases in Appropriations?

.J M. RICHARDS, Commissioner of Recreation,
C lezieland, Ohio: Investigation has proven that in
the cities adjoining Cleveland the question should
be answered in the affirmative. It does increase
the appropriation and makes it absolutely neces-
sary. Even though you may merely go into a
vacant lot to establish that as a play area, it in-
creases your cost of operation. You must place at
least a baseball backstop there. It calls for addi-
tional supplies and equipment.

To purchase property, it is necessary to in-
crease the budget, but we found that where we
had the property, it was still quite necessary to
have an increase in our budget to improve these
facilities, to expand our program on areas which
the city had formerly operated as play areas, but
had not felt is was justified in extending funds
for its improvement.

The problem of maintenance makes it impera-
tive that additional funds be allocated. The prob-
lem of personnel, regardless of the fact that we
are able to get personnel from the W PA and the
N YA, requires additional expense. The VVPA
and the N Y A are merely supplementing the per-
sonnel the city cannot afford to carry at this time.

You have the additional expense and cost of all

supplies, whether they are handicraft supplies or
of another nature. Equipment is an additional

expense.

224 ‘

One of the major problems is the cost of trans-
portation. Supervisors find it very expensive to
drive their cars, and in order to increase the num-
ber of physical facilities you have to increase the
budgets for any supervisor’s transportation.

The program of expansion must necessarily
cost more money. With the assistance of the
NYA and the WPA, the amount of the appro-
priation necessary is reduced, but it is necessary
that more funds be allocated to carry on a pro-
gram. T he only answer to this question is that it
costs you more money no matter where you are
or how you increase the facilities.

Budget Making

\VALTER ROY, Recreation Division of the Chi—
cago Park District: It is a very difficult thing to
arrive at formula and try to work out percentages.
I thought, therefore, I might give you an analysis
of our budget, rather than the percentages we try
to adhere to.

First, with all of our departments we have a
full municipal system and there we do try to
observe a percentage figure for fear our budget
may become too heavy on the material side. Our
supplies, other than salaries, should not exceed I 7
per cent. That is true of all our departments, in-
cluding our legal department, our police depart-
ment and many items you may not have in your
particular system.

Our recreation division takes in our buildings,
our field house buildings or recreation buildings,
our golf courses and our beaches, but does not
include such matters as the repairing of these
buildings and policing, which are in other divi-
sions. on this we have no set figure that we
strive toward, but we find that salaries have taken
at least 92 per cent in the recreation division,
leaving 8 per cent for what we call “miscellaneous
items.” Our supplies within this 100 per cent rec-
reation budget would run about 5 per cent. We
have been spending for the last, three years in the
neighborhood of 2 per cent for repairs to our ap—
paratus. That includes the manufacture of new
apparatus. This would be modified, once again,
by the use of WPA labor which would throw us
closer, I think, to a 4 per cent figure if we took
that into account for our annual percentage.

Maintenance of ball fields, tennis courts and so
on does not come in our division. That is handled
by our landscape maintenance division which also
takes care of the shrubbery, cutting of grass and
other things. In computing the salaries of the rec-

THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES CONFER

  
   
   

reation division, the item runs just about 50 per
cent for supervisory and teaching classifications
and about 50 per cent for the maintenance type of
salaries.

\Ve have no formula; we have arrived at no
particular percentages. We study each particular
situation in our work sheets, figuring the mini—
mum requirements of each location. A recapitu-
lation of all those individual locations is worked
in for salaries and supplies, and recognition is
given the fact that we want to hold down expen—
ditures for supplies and give more in the way of
personal service. That has resulted in the figures
of 92 per cent for salaries and about 8 per cent
for miscellaneous items.

 

Continuing the discussion of finances, George
Hjelte, Superintendent of Recreation in Los
Angeles, emphasized the point made by Mr.
Brewer that in order to secure additional appro-
priations for recreation it is important to interest
adults in the program. It is necessary, too, to in-
form adults, who are the voting citizens, of the
problems recreation officials are facing so that
they will be intelligent on the subject of the pro-
vision of recreational services. As an example of
the way in which the public will support a pro-
gram for additional appropriations for recreation
if they are given an opportunity to eXpress them-
selves, Mr. Hjelte told of the referendum vote
held last April in Los Angeles which resulted in
an increase of $250,000 in the budget for recrea-
tion. Through this vote the four cents on each
one hundred dollars of assessed valuation allotted
by the city charter was increased to six cents,
making the total budget from tax funds and fees a
little over $900,000 in the coming fiscal year.

In the campaign which preceded the vote the
Parent-Teacher Associations and Women’s Clubs,
with‘whom contacts were made at the beginning
of the project, and the employed staff of the
Recreation Department bore the brunt of the bur-
den. When the request to have the referendum
was brought before the City Council—and this
was done at a strategic time when every council-
man was running for re-election—enthusiastic ap-
proval was given. Out of the thirty amendments!
before the City Council, the amendment authoriz-
ing the vote was the only one which received a
unanimous vote. To meet the expenses of the
campaign, $2,000 was raised in $I.Oo.contribu-

tions from societies and organizations of various
kinds.

'I
l
I

   
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
 

‘ It was found that in the districts where the
,— yground and recreation departments had been
'ving service for over a year, the measure re-
ived majority votes of 6 to I, 7 to I and even
to I in some places. The districts which had
. ver had service gave a better majority of votes,
 owing that the people who had had an oppor-
nity to take part in recreation were for it, even
ough they knew that most of the money would
r t be spent in their particular districts but in the
' ctions not previously served by the commission.
.In Decatur, Illinois, before a demonstration of
creation had been put on with federal funds the
l izens voted down a proposal to spend money for
I creation by more than 5 votes to I in every pre-
L ct in the city. Eighteen months later, when the
3' izens had seen what a recreation program really
\as, every precinct voted three to one in favor of
he proposal. Over five hundred block workers
ere used in the campaign and on the day' of the
Baction every effort was made to get the voters
' . t.
The question was raised as to whether support
.been secured from organizations such as large
a ustries because of services to the industrial
(1, and whether such services affect the atti-
j e of large industries toward municipal recrea-
‘ n needs. Mr. Brewer stated that in Detroit the
' creation Commission provides most of the fa—
ties and activities for industrial plants such as
001 gymnasium, baseball diamonds, swimming
ls and tennis courts. In a number of cases
1e of the plants have done away with athletic
ds and the men are enjoying the municipal pro-
ion for recreation in their own communities.
j" henever problems of increased appropriations
'se the commission receives large support from
' se indUStrial groups.
. K. Brown of Chicago told of a hearing at the
re the Park District tax levy was being con—
ered by the legislature at which the President
the Federation of Labor appeared and em-
atically endorsed the Park District’s request for
ids, not only on behalf of the boys and girls of
city, but also on behalf of organized labor,
n iching his endorsement in terms of the meaning
‘ a richer life for the working man and working
bman as well as for children. To provide for the
‘lge industrial clientele, the Park District is us-
‘ g its plants at night, keeping the centers open
; ntil II o’clock.
' In Los Angeles the Chamber of Commerce was

appy to give its endorsement to the campaign:

l

THE RECRE.—1TION EXECUTIVES CONFER 225

after a great deal of study, in spite of the fact that

it is constitutionally opposed to tax increases and
will not give an endorsement except for measures
of the utmost importance.

Last year the recreation budget of Elizabeth,
New Jersey, an industrial community, was in-
creased by 25 per cent. Mayor Brophy stated that
the Recreation Commission has built up a great
deal of good will of industrial leaders who are
large taxpayers,and they are in favor of the muni-
cipal recreation program. He believes that it is

possible to secure the good will and support of
industrialists if the right contacts are made.

Tabulation of Reports—Financial. Program
and Administrative

F. S. MATHEWSON, Superintendent of Recrea—
tion, Union C onnty, New Jersey: We have this
question for our consideration: “For the purpose
of uniform tabulation of all reports, namely, finan-
cial, program and administrative, would it be pos-
sible for the National Recreation Association to
offer a uniform report blank to be used by all ’
cities cooperating with the National Recreation
Association P”

It seems to me that no real solution to this
problem can be secured until there is more uni-
formity in general municipal accounting. I have
discussed this question with three or four dif—
ferent pebple who have been doing some thinking
on the subject and that was the answer in each
case. Huus, in his book on finance and municipal
recreation, states that it is absolutely impossible
to compare financial costs because of lack of uni-
formity, and, in most cases, of any kind of sys-
tem at all.

I suppose one of the first steps that'should be
taken would be a discussion of terms. For in-
stance, what do we mean by operation? What do
we mean by maintenance?

I remember, a few years ago, listening to a per-
son talk to a conference about his golf course. He
told us of the profits which were accruing as a
result of his particular golf course. Yet, when we
were able to analyze his figures, it was found that
he was not considering costs of maintenance but
only charging off against the gross income, the
operation. The cost of maintenance was met by
the Park Board. Again, in comparing cost of golf
courses, we have to consider whether this golf
course is operating with a large club house, or
with only a booth where the registrations are

made.

226 ' THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES CONFER'

There is need f0r the inauguration of a better
cost accounting system. No comparative cost for
maintenance can be secured without a distribution
of time. Many recreation departments, and even
park departments, operate today without distri-
buting the time of the maintenance department.
\Ve have found that to compare costs of main—
tenance in one park with another in our own sys—
tem, it is necessary to reduce the acreage first. A
park has so many acres of shrubbery, so many
acres of lawn area, so many miles of roads, .so
many acres of heavily-used play areas. Unless we
did that we could not make comparisons with one
of our other parks relative to the efficiency of the
various foremen.

Every time a carpenter goes out to a play—
ground, or the grass is cut or the maintenance
work done on a particular baseball field, that cost
is charged directly to the recreation department
and so it is borne by our budget. In this way at
the end of the year it is ascertained that the cost
of activities in the system is exactly so much.

\Ve use about 125 different forms in our rec-
reation department alone. These were made, in
many cases, after careful study of forms used by
other departments. They satisfy our cost demands
and our auditors, but it is safe to say that they
are of little value when compared with those
which other cities are making.

I have often thought that the year book report
should be of greater help to us in making com-
parisons if the tabulations were presented in a
little_dierrent way. I think that cities under rec—
reation commissions should be tabulated in one
way. Cities under park boards should be tabu—
lated in another table. Cities under boards of edu-
cation, county parks, should have still another
tabulation. I know that the National Recreation
Association has given considerable thought and
study to this particular question and there are
many reasons why this could not be done in the
present set+up, but it seems to me that it would
be most helpful to us if it were possible to wOrk
out a plan by which it could be accomplished.

It is absolutely necessary to tell the city coun-
cil or the board of freeholders, as the \case may
be, just exactly how the money was spent last
year and how it is intended to spend it for the
' coming year, if we are going to secure the neces-
sary funds with which to do our job.

There is an attempt being made by the Chil-
dren’s Bureau at Washington to secure uniform
record-keeping methods by both private and pub-

     
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
 

lic agencies and so there is a keen interest on th
part of the various private and public officials
have a better understanding of this who
question.

At this point I want to' present a motion th
the National Recreation Association be urg
to form a committee similar to the Standar
Committee and other committees organized
past years, to make a study of this question a
to make a complete report, at least, a progre
report, at the Twenty—third Annual Recreati
Conference.

This motion was passed.

How Can We Get Attendance Figures Which
Tell the Truth?

IRENE VVELTY, Superintendent of Recreatio
Allentown, Pennsylvania: If I could answer t
question, I think I would be greeted with a rou
of applause, but in some of our activities it
quite easy to get figures which do tell the tru
For instance, in the use of your golf courses y
probably charge a small fee or you have your pe
ple register. This is also true in tennis and' a f
more activities, probably in your community ce
ters in the winter time. These figures which y
have from the National Recreation Association
your report sheet are probably quite correct a
true, but I know all of us wonder when we se
our report in, ust what they are going to do abo
it and how they are going to make up the repo
when they get them. If we should take our regi
tration and multiplied it by the number of cle
days that our playgrounds were open, and if t
National Association would arrive at a percenta
of attendance which would be the most unifor
and multiply by it, we would probably have
better viewpoint of attendance. -

Another question here says, “Why should 11
greater stress be placed on statistics which rela
to participation and less on statistics which on
concern themselves with non-participation P”

The only suggestion I can give you is this:
you are estimating a crowd of people, at least f1
out how many your stadium or auditorium
your opera house holds so that you don’t ove
estimate the number!

There is another question, “How valuable a
our recreational attendance statistics when the k
to the measuring medium is local and not unifo
throughout the various cities ?” I feel it does ha
a value to the local community and our politicia
are very anxious, our councilmen and our May 

  
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
     
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
   
 
  

, u have statistics because they feel the recreation
’ epartment is reaching a greater number of peo-
lle than they think it does. It will mean a great
eal to them, and a great deal to us in our bud-
et, but as far as having any value to the national
‘ utlook of participation I am afraid that it is very
tall.

In the discussion which followed, methods of
st accounting aroused much interest. The point
as made that there was probably little possibility
f developing uniformity in cost accounting sys-
ms because of the necessity for complying with
unicipal budget set-ups which vary considerably.
‘Iunicipal housekeeping in general is safeguarded
legislation in every state, and as long as
' i ates are sovereign, uniformity is impossible.
The committee which the recreation executive has
asked to have appointed might perhaps harvest
from various sources samplings which will show
tpical situations and this will be helpful. While
1 tle can be done, in all probability, in compiling
iform methods of cost accounting, there is
uch more hope for success in attempting to
andardize program accounting which will make
possible not only to compare one city with an-
her in its recreational services, but also a sec—
n of one city with another section, and one
nter with another.

I

At the Luncheon Meeting

Following the morning session a special lunch—
n meeting was held for the discussion of ques-
ns relating to W PA and the National Youth
dministration. t this meeting recreation execu—
j '65 were given the opportunity to discuss with
ubrey \Villiams, Director of the NYA and As-
tant Administrator W PA, questions regarding
lationships with federal government agencies
l_ erating in the leiSUre time field. Dr. E. C.
 ndeman, Director, Community Organization for
Leisure W'PA, also answered questions and told of
, me of the things which are being done through
governmental agencies.

A report of this session will
be published separately.

, Association of Recreation
', Executives

On May 27, 1936 the Board
of Directors of the National
Recreation Association voted in

 

Following the luncheon. the after-
noon session of the meeting of
recreation executives was devoted
to a discussion of the organization
of an association of recreation
workers. The minutes of this meet-
ing' together with a brief state-

ment regarding the preliminary
steps taken. are presented here.

THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES CONFER 227

favor of an organization of recreation workers.
Out of 173 recreation executives writing in re—
sponse to a questionnaire, 168 expressed them-
selves as in favor of organization. Recreation ex-
ecutives throughout the country by a mail ballot
chose a committee of ten to advise as to prelimi—
nary arrangements for forming the organization.
This committee asked V. K. Brown to call the
first organization meeting to order. V. K. Brown
was duly elected temporary chairman and Arthur
T. Noren, temporary secretary. The temporary
chairman was authorized to appoint a committee
of fifteen to consider the plans proposedat the
first organization meeting. held ,on May 17, 1937
and to present a plan for consideration at the sec-
ond meeting to be held on May 20th.

At the meeting on May 17th several questioned
the need of a new organization. Others urged that
the new organization be a part of the National
Recreation Association. Howard Braucher, sec-
retary of the National Recreation Association,
was called upon by the chairman and stated With
conviction that he felt the time had come for the

‘ organization of an association of recreation work-

ers and that the new society ought to be entirely
separate and distinct from the National Recrea-
tion Association so that there could be the utmost
freedom in the expression of opinion,‘ while at
the same time the National Recreation Association
and the new professional organization ought nat-
urally to work in very close cooperation.

The minutes of the meeting held on May 20th
follow:

At the National Recreation Congress held in

_Atlantic City, steps Were taken to perfect an or—

ganization of recreation workers to be known as
“The Association of Recreation Workers.” The
following general purposes were proposed:
A. I. That the name of the association be:

“The Association of Recreation Workers.”

2. That the purposes of the association be as
follows:
a. To unite in one organization all recrea—
tion workers in the United
States and adjoining countries.

I). To foster and to maintain

high standards of professional
qualifications.

6-. To foster and to maintain
high standards of professional
ethics.

228 THE RECREATION EXECUTIVES CONFER

d. To encourage and promote adequate pro-
grams of professional training for recrea-
tional workers.

e. To affiliate for mutual benefit with the Na-
tional Recreation Association and to join
with other agencies organized for similar
or related objectives.

f. To publish a bulletin or other medium for
dissemination of information concerning its
activities and related matters.

g. To act as an agency for representing recrea-
tion workers when group representation is
desired.

It. To promote adequate compensation for rec-
reation workers.

i. To protect the interests of recreation work-
ers as a group in situations where their pro-
fessional interests are involved.

j. To encourage research on matters of pro-
fessional interest.

B. Active Membership
Membership in this association shall be open
to anyone who is employed as a professional
recreation worker on a year—round, full time
basis in any private or public agency which
is primarily concerned with and interested
in the promotion of public recreation. Dues,
three dollars per year including a subscrip—
tion to the Recreation magazine.

Associate Membership
This association shall be open to any recrea-
tion worker who is employed on a part time
or seasonal basis or anyone who is interested
in any way in the field of public recreation.
Dues-*two dollars and a half per year in—
cluding a subscription to the Recreation
magazine.

Voting power in this Association shall be limit-
ed‘ to active members.

C. That an annual convention for the proposed
organization be held once a year at the same

. time and the same place as that of the Na“-
tional Recreation Association and that mem-
bers be notified of the place and dates of
this meeting.

D. That this convention be held during an after-
noon session as determined by the Execu-
tive Committee.

E. That the proposed new group contact the Na-
tional Recreation Association requesting that
they suggest a temporary secretary from
their staff to serve in the membership drive
and the supervision of the bulletins.

F. That the National Recreation Association 1
requested to assign a certain section in th
official magazine, RECREATION, these pa
to be devoted to the business of the prop
ed recreation workers’ organization.

(3. That the relationship of the proposed 11
group to other organizations interes
either directly or indirectly in leisure—ti
activities be referred to a sub—committee
an intensive study; said duty- to includ
referendum on the sentiment of all in
bers of the group.

T he,above report was presented before ab

three hundred delegates. I

After considerable discussion, the motion w
made by George H jelte, seconded by Tam Dee

ing, that the recreation workers proceed to o

ganize on the general plan as submitted by tl

above report.

A communication was read by Dr. John 'Brow
Jr., suggesting a possible affiliation with t
American Physical Education Association. Aft
some discussion, this matter was referred to t
general committee for further study.

The motion was made and unanimously pass
that the officers of this committee be delegat
with responsibility to continue in office until fin
organization is effected.

Motion was made that information on the e1
tire proposal be disseminated through the regul
bulletin service.

The following motion was made by Fay ‘
Mathewson, seconded by Robert Dixon: that t
committee. of fifteen already appointed be en
powered to carry on for another year with i1
structions to study the whole plan and to submit
complete report at the 1938 Congress with t1
proposed constitution and by-laws and any oth
recommendations which seem desirable as a resu
of its study.

Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR T. NOREN, Secretar r.
. The following recreation executives, represen
mg a cross section of the country, were select
as a steering committee for planning the organiz

tion of the Association of Recreation \Vorkers:
\V. Duncan Russell, Boston, Mass.
George Hjelte, Los Angeles, Calif. °
Josephine Blackstock, Oak Park, Ill.
\r. K. Brown, Chicago, 111.
Charles English, Philadelphia, Pa.
\V. C. Cammack, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.
Catherine Kreig, Des Moines, Iowa

( C ontz'nued on page 259)

 

 

Marionettes on Wheels

means new, but it would be
an inaccurate statement to
say there is nothing new in the
art of puppetry. It was known

in the year 1400 B. C. and even earlier, some his—
torians declare, but the modern version adapted
for educational recreation has become the newest
and one of the most important developments in
the recreation held, and one that has met with re—
markable success, particularly with the introduc-
tion of the traveling theater.

These mobile units, many of them unique be-
cause of the ingenuity which has gone into their
creation, have opened new vistas and brought into
being new opportunities that are taking puppetry
far from the beaten paths of parks and play-
grounds. By reaching areas hitherto untouched,
they are taking municipal recreation to the people
where it is most readily
accessible to them, making
it unnecessary for the
audience to go to a stated
' place involving travel and
long distances.

For the fortunate recre-
ation department endowed
with sufficient funds to
carry on an adequate pro-
gram it is not much of a
task to establish a travel-
ing theater, but for the
less fortunate department

THE. ART OF PUPPETRY is by no

By JOHN M. HURLEY

Board of Park Commissioners
Hartford' Connecticut

The Recreation Division of the Hartford Park

Department has developed rare resourceful-
ness in converting old material into equipment
combining beauty and utility. Proof of this
was given in an article which appeared in the
April I936 issue ot RECREATION. The Division
has once more proven its ingenuity and skill
by creating a marionette theater out of dis-
carded material. James H. Dillon. Supervisor
of Recreation' tells us the idea was suggested
to him by an article he saw in RECREATION
telling of a traveling puppet theater in a
Pacific coast city. Mr. Dillon called into con-
sultation his director of marionettes, Alwin
NikolaisI and the project was speedily launched.

it is an enterprise calling for the
utmost ingenuity.

From Ancient Egypt to
Modern Junk Yards

"Lacking funds for a traveling theater and call—
ed upon to use its resourcefulness to the limit, the
W'PA—Recreation Division of the Hartford Park
Department has been successful in securing a
theater on wheels though it has meant traversing
a devious path that led all the way from the
archives of ancient Egypt “to an automobile junk
yard, secondhand shops and a dismantled theater.
The traveling theater is now starting on its sec—
ond outdoor season with a record behind it of an
average of three performances a week in parks,
playgrounds and neighborhood centers, as well as
a tour, on request, of the county fairs throughout

the state.
The theater’s reper~

toire of six plays has
been increased by two
for this summer’s pro—
duction. The new shows
are “Rip‘ Van Winkle”
and “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” which will be
presented in addition to
“Aladdin and His \Von-
derful Ijamp,” “St.
George and the Dragon,”
“Hansel and Gretel,”
“Jack and the Bean-

229

230

stalk;” “The Flying Trunk” and “The Ama-
teur Hour.”

Starting from scratch in the spring of 1935
under the sponsorship,of J. H. Dillon, Supervisor
of Recreation, with practically nothing at its dis—
posal except the experience and knowledge of its
marionette troupe, the project has achieved high
success.

The first step in securing the theater was a trip
to an automobile junk yard where an old bUt ser-
viceable Ford truck chassis was obtained for the
payment of the princer sum of $15. It was-a
sorry looking object, but its decrepit body con—
cealed a good motor which, with four young,
sturdy w1eels, provided the mobile equipment;
that is, it was mobile after four used tires'had
been purchased! When it had been stripped to
the bare essentials, the departmental carpenters
went to work to build on it a
platform of planks which
was to form the foundation
for the theater superstructure.

Next, stage hands from
the marionette and dramatic
groups took it in charge.
Scarcer had they started
work when it became known
that Parson’s Theater, one
of the oldest and most fam-
ous in the country and a
Hartford landmark for years,
was to be dismantled and
razed. Through the courtesy of the owners, the
“IPA-Recreation Division had the rare good
fortune to secure permission to remove whatever
equipment and theatrical effects it desired. In this
way footlights, border lights, two flood lights, five
spotlights and color reels were secured, as well as
a quantity of stage scenery, drops; Wings and
other paraphernalia.

From the day Parson’s Theater opened over a
century ago, a grotesque carved insignia of the
drama has gazed out over the audience from its
place above the front arch of the stage. Today
that same wooden image looks out over the audi-
ence watching a performance of the traveling
theater stage.

The acquisition of this equipment added im-
petus to the construction' of the mobile unit. A
scenic artist repainted some of the Parson’s Thea—
ter scenery and painted new scenery on old can-
vas. Stage hands made over drops and wings to
fit new measurements. Electricians built a spe-

 

"Marionettes are as old as civiliza-
tion itself. They have been found
buried in the tombs of the kings
and queens of that most ancient
of civilizations—Egypt. In GreeceI
we find that Archimedes. - the
greatest inventor of his timeI de-
vised many clever ways of making
them move and appear human."

—From The Hobbyist.

 

MARIONETTES ON “(HEELS

cial switchboard and troughs for the border an
footlights for illuminationw—a highly importa

factor as lighting effects are used to carry out th

story. The switchboard controls the amplifyin
system as well as all lights, including the Iarg
spotlights with 1,000 watt bulbs, baby spots .
500 watts each and a border of multicolore

lights that encircle the stage.

Authenticity and Artistry Join Hands

\Vhile the work on the vehicle itself was und
way, Mr. Nikolais with the aid of Edward
Dunn an expert wood carver attached to the d
partment, and his troupe of operators were bu
with the manufacture of the puppets, every on
of which is handmade. Each head, face and tors
was carved by Mr. Dunn, an artisan who yeai
ago carved the famous staircase in the SaratOg
New York, Casino, while M
Nikolais personally handle
the moulding of the feature
and the stringing of the limb
Costumes for the character
were produced by the D
partment’s dressmakers. Thi
work alone is worthy of at
tention for every costum
represents hours of researc
by one of the troupe’s mem
bers especially assigned t
this task. The marionett
costume must conform i
every detail to the original mode, color and design

It has been estimated that each puppet repre
sents a cost of about $30, so intricate and deli
cate is the workmanship, but its value when com
pleted is about $100. The making of the puppet
was the most expensive part of the new travelin
unit.

When the technicians and the artisans ende
their labor, the bridge was erected, the vehicl
was painted a glowing white with a trim of go] I
and a trailer attachment was forged in the Park
Department’s blacksmith’s shop.

Off on the Road!
It was then hooked up to a departmental truck

and took to the road, conducting a circuit in two

months of every park, playground and neighbor—y
“100d gathering place that provided accommoda—
tions for a public gathering.

From the start it was an outstanding success

an investment of about $300 that has an “as is”
J

MARIONETTES ON II’HEELS 231

galue of $1,000, but whose value to children can-
not be computed in dollars and cents. They flock
lb it like bees to honey, following it from place to
place, eager and rapt in their attention and tireless
31 watching over and over again the antics of the

ny creatures dangling at the end of strings.

'l At the close of the summer, but before the end
‘ the outdoor season, the theater’s popularity

I: spread past the boundaries of Hartford and

ached the ears of Robert A. Hurley, then ad-
inistrator of the Connecticut VVPA. At. Mr.
A urley’s request, the traveling theater with its
‘ artford troupe started on a state tour that took
t to practically every county fair- where thou—
ands, many of them for the first time, were en-
ertained with marionette shows.

During the winter, the theater was kept in stor’-
uge while the tr011pe continued its usual indoor
rogram in school auditoriums, community cen—
ers and public gathering places. With the advent
f the summer season it was brought out, recon-
itioued and repainted and is now ready for the
i bad again.

Mr. Nikolais has made a life time study of the
rt of puppetry and is exceptionally well inform-
.1 not only on the historical background but on
1e technical details of manufacture and operation.

o
l

An Ancient Art

“It was only-recent-
,” he recalls, “that l
'as both surprised and
hocked at the remarks
h a supposedly intelli-
: ent woman. We had
ust rung down the last
t rtain on our third per-
ormance of the day
hen she rushed back-
age. ‘Why, you clever,
lever people,’ she gush-
. d. ‘How in the world
llqlid you ever think up

A "close-up" of the‘ trav-
eling theater shows some
of the details of construc-
tion and the quality of
' workmanship which has
gone into its creation

the marvelous idea of dangling little dollies about
on strings?’ The entire company gulped for there
is nothing they detest ‘more than to have the lit-
tle actors called ‘dollies,’ and I’m sure the charac-
ters’ hearts would be broken if they realized how

few people know of their ancient, honorable and
astounding, ancestry.’_’

Mr. Nikolais can'trace their ancestry back even
before puppets were know on an Egyptian oasis
in 1400 B. C. That 1400 B. C. puppet was sup-
posed to be the reincarnation of the god Ammon
Ra, while actually it wasa man—sized marionette
built in such a way that a priest could get inside

and manipulate the arms, legs, head, mouth and.
eyes.

“we are not sure this puppet of Ammon Ra
was the first,” according to Mr. Nikolais, “and it
is safe to guess it 'Was not. The people of India
before that were very fond of puppets and many
wonderful stories have been passed on to us about
them. There is one story about Parvati, wife of
the god Siva, who made such a beautiful puppet
she was afraid to show it to her husband and
secreted it in the Malaya Mountains. Suspicious
of his wife, Siva followed her, discovered the
puppet, fell madly in love with it, and used his
supernatural powers to give it life. It must have

(Continued on page 260)

 

uCalendar Highlights"

By MARK L. FRENCH
Department of Parks. Playgrounds and Public Buildings
St. Paul. Minnesota

N UNUSUALLY at—
A tractive pageant
has been arrang-
ed for presentation in
St. Paul, and a beautiful site has been selected for
the production which will include participating
groups from all of the playgrounds in the city,. it
was announced by Ernest \V. Johnson, Superin-
tendent of 'Playgrounds.

“Calendar Highlights,” a picturesque spectacle
depicting events which are celebrated annually on
the St. Paul play centers, will be offered in tab—
leau settings on Sunday, July 25th, at 8:30 P. M.
From eighteen to twenty such events are planned,
according to Miss Gwetholyn Beedon, dramatic
director for the Department, who will be in
charge. Cooperating with the Playground Depart-
ment in making the city-wide affair possible are
the Ramsey County \VPA Recreation Project and
the W PA Music Project.

The site chosen is located on beautiful Lake
Phalen where natural glacier formations aided by
man-made landscaping provide a small island. The
island is surrounded by gently sloping hills which
offer a natural amphitheater where spectators may
sit. Although the sides of the hill are not terraced,
they have well seeded lawns, which, fanned by the
cool refreshing breezes off the lake, will provide
comfort for the audience.

An advantage of this site best appreciated by
the directors of the pageant is the fact that the
only entrance is over a small bridge. This gate-
way will be guarded so that only persons con-
nected with the performance can gain admittance,
thus assuring no‘interferencc from outside sources.
It will make it possible to control the natural
desire of the children to roam about the park
when they are not on the stage; a guard will be
stationed at the bridge who will see that only
those children having written
_permission may leave.

A stage resembling a huge
picture frame will be used.
Brilliantly lighted, with its
boxed encased framework, it
will give the effect of a por-
trait frame. An innovation for
a front curtain drop will be

232

‘ Washington’s and Lincoln’s Birthdays, April I

Many recreation departments are
now planning for the circus. festival.
pageant or other Special event which
will bring together all their play-
grounds in a city-wide demonstra-
tion at the end. of the summer sea-
son. St. Paul is planning for a pag-
eant. Q'Czalendar Highlights." which
wi||*be of interest to other cities.

used. Two huge pum
will draw water fr
the canal and w
carry it to an imp
vised trough at the top of the stage; from t

point it will fall into another trough placed l
rectly in front of the setting and drain back ii
the canal. While. the water is falling numer
colored lights will be played on the spray fr
the front and rear giving a rainbow effect._ Tl
lighting device will be used only during the cha

ing of stage property and while the placing

characters back stage is going on. '

The stage itself will have a frontage of appro.
mater 40 feet and will drop back to I 5 feet
depth with a 20 foot rear background. It will
15 feet in height.

An interesting device will be used to annou .
the names of the participating playgrounds a
the events to be presented in the setting. An
foot papier-maché sign with blocked out lette
arranged on pegs will be placed on a chassis, wi
four disc wheels somewhat resembling a wago
which will be drawn across the stage. by a sm
dog. In reality the dog will have very little wo
to do as an invisible wire manipulated by m
power will draw the sign across the stage.

Among the scenes which have already be
chosen and assigned to different playgrounds a
New Year’s, Valentine’s and St. Patrick’s Da

l
1
1

Easter, May Day, Mother’s and Father’s Da
Memorial Day, a June bridal, July 4th, Lab
Day, Hallowe’en, Thanksgiving and Christm
celebrations, and a harvesting scene significant 4
the month of August. '

NOTE: We hope very much that the recreati
departments which this summer conduct such pa :

eants as St. Paul plans to pr
duce, will send us reports I

l
. the events as they are held. I '
sufficient material reaches

porate the information in .
article to appear in a lat
 issue of RECREATION.

0

   
    
  
   
  
   

we shall be glad to inco '

 

 
 
  

E'r’s SUPPOSE it hap-
pened this way, be-

cause it might very

.i'" have. . . . The
.4: Club of older

ys and girls was rest-
.' 5. Summer was com-
'1 on, everyone want-
.9 to go to the beach
'w on one of the many
vertised cruises, and
0 one could! To make matters worse they show—
a travel movie in the Center and everybody
lid, “If I only had a million—hor even a few hun-
red dollars, just wouldn’t I get away from
ere!” Nobody felt any better about having to
ay in the city after seeing the picture. Then
oe, head of the social committee, had an idea and
lled a special meeting of his committee and said,

' et’s throw a ship party and take ourselves on a
'.

   
 
 
  
   
  

   
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
  

a 1b—as a surprise.
I

Invitations

’hey sent out invitations in the form of cruise
ders, having visited a travel bureau and obtain—
folders from which they cut pictures and cap-
ns. ,“If we can’t use the Center mimeograph
I chine, we’ll cut down on the print and use
re pictures and print them by hand,” said Joe.
1ey used cheap, colored paper and included
ce and time and suggested everyone come in
‘stume suitable for a tropical cruise. The ship
« the 8.5. Good Time; the destination the
{J ven Seas.

. Decorations

, Planning the decorations for the club room was
[most more fun than the party. They didn’t have
space or time to carry out all their ideas, but here
1re some of the things they did. They made a
gangplank leading into the gym where the party
was given; hung ropes about the room and pinned
Eriangular flags of colored kindergarten paper
along them, one al-
most touching the
xt, and thumb-
acked large card-
Doard life preserv-

 

 

ise.” And this is what they worked out for the

If you can’t go on that ocean cruise you'd like
to take, at least you can enjoy a cruise party!

A Cruise Party

ers at intervals on the
wall. (Jane had printed
“S. S. Good. Time” on
each one.) Two girls
made sailor hats for the
club members and of-
ficer caps for the social
committee. (Joe was
Captain.) Jim suggest-
ed they make a prome-
nade deck and roped
off. a walk about six feet wide down the whole
side of the gym. He put deck chairs, camp stools
and chairs along it for those who wanted to sit
down. He pinned some life preservers to the
heavy, cheap twine he had used to give the effect
of a railing and tacked some port holes behind the
chairs on the wall. Mary hung a red light to the
left of the gangplank (port side), and a green one
on the 'right (starboard). Out of a cardboard
packing case they cut a huge anchor and chain to
put in one corner. The effect was quite nautical
and they were well pleased.

Games

“Now we’ve got to plan some good games,”
said Joe. “We could plan a game from each of
the various countries we touch; we could run a
progressive party with the regular ship games of
bull board, deck tennis, shuffleboard and ring toss
or we can parody things that happen on a ship.”
They decided to do the latter, and w0rked out the
following activities. Joe, as Captain, was to lead
the games and the other committee members were
to assist him.

Pre-party. \Nhat to do with the early comers
was the first problem. “We’ll give them some—
thing to look at,” suggested Jim. “How about a
marine museum, along the wall here?” No sooner
said than done. First comers were ushered up the
gangplank by the officers and taken to the Marine
Museum until “sailing time.” They saw Davey
Jones’s locker ( a small chest) ; the most famous
sailor of modern times (funny paper cutout of
Poyeye, the Sailor
Man) ; the 1n 0 s t
celebrated sailor in
literature (drawing
of Jonah and a

233

234 A CRUISE PARTY

whale or a bit of the “Rhyme of the Ancient
Mariner”), the most famous nautical love affair
(drawing of the owl and the pussy cat) ; King of
the sea (picture of Neptune) ; a sea serpent (toy
snake), and the equator (a hair fastened across
the large end of a pair of opera glasses).

Boat Drill. When all were aboard, the Captain
ordered a boat drill and led a grand march to the
tune of Sailing and Anchor’s Aweigh, using “star-
board” for right and “port” for left as he gave his
orders'. Pretending that all the guests were crew,
he halted them and inspected with his officers.
Some who weren't in nautical attire or who had a
tie crooked or a lock of hair out of place or smil—
.ed had their names taken for later sentence and
were threatened with the brig if they didn’t mend
their ways.

Nautical Relay. Having ended the boat drill
with the group in four rows, the Captain an-
nounced a nautical relay. Each person in turn
raced to the other end of the room and back
touching off the next player. The first had to
walk with a sailor’s roll; the second hopped on
one leg as a one-legged sailor; the third and
fourth went together, the fourth (a tug), push-
ing the third (a barge); the fifth blew his fog
horn (cupped hands) all the way, and the sixth
ran for his life belt. “If there are more than six
in each row,” Joe said, as they made up the list,
“I’ll add new ways or.use any of the others
again.” The members of the winning team re-.
ceived a candy lifesaver as a prize.

Square Knot Relay. The Captain showed the
group how to tie a square knot. (He had looked
in a Boy Scout manual to find out.) The leader
of each team was given a short length of clothes-I
line rope and on the word “go” he tied a square
knot which was passed on by an officer assigned
to the team. He then untied it and passed the

rope to the next player, and so on. The team fin—
ished first also received life saver prizes.

Horse Racing. A cruise wouldn’t be complete
without a horse race, so three girls and three boys
were selected from the group to be horses. Twenty
pieces of paper were laid out on the Hoor in a
straight line, and the horses were numbered one to
six and lined up at the start. One girl was
selected to shake the dice. The rest of the group
was divided'into six groups depending on which
horse each chose to back. The race was on. The
girl shook out one dice. Six turned up. She shook

  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  

the other, five turned up. Horse number six we
ahead five, papers. She continued in this way un
one horse crossed the finish line. Those backi
the winning horse received a life saver. The
was a great deal of cheering for each horse, nee
less to say, as the race progressed.

Stunt. One of the officers held a list of all t
names of the club members. After the horse ra
he went quickly around the group to coll
guesses on the number of miles the ship wo
travel that day—a take-off on the custom
“guessing” of the length of the day’s run. l
held a\ glass jar of beans. Each guessed the nu
ber in the jar and had the number written af
his name. The one coming closest received
doughnut prize.

The Ocean Is Stormy. The Captain then orde
each girl to take the man nearest her on the ri
as her partner. One of the officers gave each c
ple a sheet; of paper which it was to put near .
side of the room and stand on. Each cou
thought of the name of a fish it was to be. T
Captain walked around the room saying “I we
fishing and I caught a . . . . . . . . . .,” naming so
fish. Any couple having that name fell in behi
him. Next time he called the name of anoth
fish, and so on until he had quite a number u
“fish” behind him. Suddenly he said “The Oce
is Stormy” and all, including the Captain, rac
for a paper. One couple was left without a pap
The Captain took the girl of that couple for h
partner and the extra man became the fisherman

Immigration Test. “Now,” said the Captain, “
are nearing port and the immigration officers w
see which couples are educated enough to be .
lowed to go ashore.” An officer gave a card a
pencil to each couple and the immigration offic
(one of the committee) read the following stat
ments, the passengers writing down the answer
The answers were read and prizes awarded t
highest and lowest scores.

I. Is a nautical mile longer or shorter than
land mile? (A nautical mile is 6,080.2 feet)

2. "Full fathoms five thy father lies”——‘—Ho
far down was he? (Thirty feet)

3. How many stripes on a captain’s sleeve
(Four)

4-. Which is the leeward side of a boat? (Si

opposite to that against which the win
blows)

5. Is' starboard right or left? (Right)
6. Is the stern the front of the boat? (No)

(Continued on page 261)

 

  

Truly professional in its lay-
out is the annual playground
circus of Evansville, Indiana

" E HAVE A CIRCUS,” any child in Evansville,
Indiana, will tell you if you ask what hap-
pens on the playgrounds there.

And indeed they do, both literally and figura-
tively. For the past two years the summer season
has closed with a three-ring performance which
rivals professional shows.

At the beginning of the season the thousand
youngsters attending the twelve playgrounds start
getting their acts ready for the big day. Play—
ground supervisors begin early visiting 'play—
grounds to spot outstanding talent which may be
used in special acts. Clubs having unusual acts are
also invited to join in the circus. Training for
the clown acts in particular is started early, as
these are the most diflicult acts to perform well.

Held in a large athletic field, the circus features
two forty foot rings and three platforms, making
it possible for from two to five acts to be pre-
sented at one time. There are tumblers, trained
animal acts, marionette and puppet shows, danc~
ers, trapeze artists, acrobats, tap dancers and con-
tortionists. Former circus performers now living
in Evansville coach the children and appear on
the program.

 

u\X/e Have a Circus"

By LOTYS BENNING

Last year’s performance, which played to an
audience often thousand, lasted two hours. Gen-
eral admission was free, but there was a charge of
ten cents for eight hundred reserved seats.

Four bands and a calliope provided continu-
ous music. There were two hillbilly bands, a
clown band and a junior band. The calliope be-
longs to an Evansville citizen. He had bought an
old one for seven dollars many years ago and had
never put it in condition. After seeing the first
playground circus. he turned it over to recreation
workers who made it play again.

In last year’s show one hundred clowns went
through their antics, and trick bicycle riders train-
ed on the playgrounds rode everything from old-
fashioned high-wheelers to modern balloon-tired
models.

Five of the playgrounds had tumbling teams of
eight members each, who appeared in costumes
carrying out their playground colors. Dancers in
colorful costumes did group and square dances
and quadrilles. A ukelele club composed of chil-
dren from eight playgrounds rode past the grand-
stands on a brightly decorated float, playing soft

Hawaiian music.

235

236 “WE HA VE‘A CIRCUS”

Young girl charioteers dressed in flowing Gre—
cian robes of pastel colors made graceful pictures
as they rode in authentic replicas of Roman chari—
ots, each pulled by four boys.

Famous nursery rhymes were represented, i11—
cluding such characters as Old Mother Hubbard,
the Old \Voman Who Lived in a Shoe, and
Humpty Dumpty. The costumes were made by
the children themselves with the assistance of the
playground supervisors.

Outstanding were the papier-maché heads of
well—known fairy tale or comic strip characters.
Each playground constructed one or twg‘, and in—
cluded stlch characters as the Mad Hatter, the
March Hare, Alice in Wonderland, Alley Oop and
Popeye. _

These heads were made by an elaborate pro-
cess, and took considerable time to complete. First
a wire frame was constructed in the general shape
of the figure to be made. The frame then was
covered with clay, and then with several layers of
paste-soaked paper which when dry forms a hard
shell which was removed from the clay mold.
Paint was applied to the shell to simulate skin
and the yellow locks of an Alice in Wonderland
or the bulbous nose of Popeye. An opening where
the neck should be permitted the performer to
insert his own head inside the papier~maché one.
One of the most unusual pairs in last year’s show
was Alley Oop and Dinny, one' of the popular
strips used in local papers. Dinny, a replica- of a
prehistoric dinosaur, was some twenty feet in
length and required two lads to shoulder his
weight and carry him along in the parade.

Youthful barkers sold
pink lemonade, peanuts,
popcorn and balloons.

Additional acts
were provided by
local civic organi—
zations. Many for—
mer circus people
donated their ser-
vices.

C a n v a s w a s
stretched across the
unused part of the
field to give the ap—
pearance of a tent.
For this year’s
show they plan to
use old canvas and
pipes and build

 

sideshows like those in the‘most professional of
circuses. 1

As an editorial in one of the Evansville papers
pointed out, the circus provides a way of enter—
taining a large proportion of the population at
little expense. “But more important than the
actual show,” it stated, “is the fact that for weeks
a thousand or more youngsters have been kept
busy on twelve playgrounds practicing their acts,
building ferocious animals, painting, hammerin
—all under competent supervision, and havin
much more fun than loaling in pool rooms 0
streets.”

Here are some suggestions for the clown act
for your playground circus. They are taken fron1
a 17—ipage bulletin “Suggestions for an Amateu
Circus” obtainable from the National Recreatio
Association for twenty—five cents. Thei' bulleti1
includes directions and suggestions for grganizin
an amateur circus with material on paragles, th
costuming of performers and the making:of ani
mals; suggested acts for clowns, animals an
special circus artists; activities for concession

and a bibliography.

  

Clown Acts

The clown acts must be really funny. .Train th
clowns well after working out a number of act
in detail. Clowns, if too young, are apt to b
silly and make this part of the show ridiculou
instead of clever. Clowns, if present during the
main acts, should not “steal the show,” but the
may be woven into part of some of the acts to add
humor. They appear between acts as well as in a

I main act of their own i
the ring.

The Village Fire Com-

pany. Clown fire
.men put out a fak
fire in a very inef-
ficient manner.
S moke pots o

smudges may be
used and a fire en-
gine may be buil
on a child’s express
wagon. A huge pa-
per carton may
serve as a house.
Toy automobiles or
Kiddie Kars in or
on which the ‘

(Continued on 

These clowns were the cause of much amuse-
ment‘with their antics at a circus given at
one of the 4-H Club camps in West Virginia

page 261 )

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
 
    

AKE MERRITT, in Oak-
land, California, is a
natural salt water

body connected, through
a system of automatic
tide gates, with the wa-
ters of San Franciscc
Bay. This facility per-
mits control of the water
level at all times and
eliminates any tidal ac-
tion. \Vith a circumfer-
nce of four miles, aver-
ge depth of ten feet and a total area of 165 acres,
he outstanding feature of this aquatic playground
s its unique location in the very heart of the
etropolitan district. Fronting on the lake are
. the new Alemeda County Court House, the Civic
' ' uditorium, Exposition Building, Free Public Mu-
seum, Veterans’ Memorial Hall, Masonic Temple,

li

ial property of Oakland. Main traffic arteries
onverge here, thus bringing the lake within ten
r fifteen minutes’ traveling time of the farthest
chool or playground.

Part of the lake has been divided off for the
easonal arrival of‘wild ducks which feed here at
the city’s expense. This area has been officially
designated as a federal banding station for migra-
tory wild fowl. Each season many of the birds
re banded' with a soft copper ring to check their
l. igrations, which have shown a travel range be-
' tween the Arctic Circle and South America.

     
 

Facilities
‘ L The recreational activities on Lake Merritt are
d

. ministered by the Oakland Recreation Depart-
ment under the direction of the Board of PlaY‘

 

By
PAUL T. GARVER
Supervisor
Municipal Boat House . .
Oaklandl California f. .
f.
0

everal churches and some of the finest residen- .

' Recreation on a Municipal l_al<e

 

Few cities are as fortunate as Oakland in
having. in the heart of its metropolitan
district' a lake devoted to water sports

ground Directors. Principal facilities consist of
two boat houses, seven docks, three large pas-
senger launches, twenty crew boats, thirty row-
boats, fifty canoes, seven motor canoes and six-
teen electric motor boats. ‘The main boat house is
devoted principally to the housing of rowboats,
canoes and electric motor boats which are rented
to the public. Here also is the repair shop for the
maintenance of all equipment. A boat builder,
mechanic and a painter are constantly employed in
repairing and replacing old or worn equipment.
On the upper deck of the boat house is the Sher-
wood Lake Merritt dining room, providing pa-
trons with excellent luncheons and dinners and af-
fording them an unobstructed view of the greater
portion of. the lake. A club room for model yacht
hobbyists, with storage space for models, has en-
couraged this popular sport among young and old.
Dressing rooms and showers for men and women
are available for all crews rowing on the lake.
Adjacent to the crew rooms are storage lockers

237

238 RECREATION ON A MUIV’ICIPAL LAKE

containing twelve hundred school and club crew
oars.

The second boat house on Lake Merritt, known
as the Canoe House, is located in Lakeside Park,
adjoining the wild fowl refuge. Here the rental
of rowboats and canoes is secondary to the prin-
cipal activity of providing storage and mooring
for private craft at a nominal charge. In the sum-
mer of 1936 the Recreation Department installed
forty-two mooring posts to accommodate a rapidly
growing Heet of sail boats. The lower floor of the
building contains lockers for boat owners’ equip;
ment, and racks for the storage of canoes, out-
board hulls and motors. The upper deck provides
'living quarters for the caretaker and room for
picnic groups in case the weather prevents use of
the fireplaces and barbecue pit at the rear of the
house.

Sailboats of the Snipe, Junior Star and Skim-
mer classes have been found most practicable for
use on the lake. A monthly program of sailing
regattas offers young people and adults alike valu-
able sailing experience under most favorable
conditions.

The passenger launches make regular twenty-
five minute trips around the lake each day during
the summer vacation period and on Sunday after-
noons throughout the year. Passengers may board
the launch at live convenient points on the shore
line. Special rates are offered to groups planning
a ride on the launch followed by a stop over at
the Canoe House for a barbecue or picnic. During
Christmas week carol singing from the launches
is very popular.

The Program

The recreational program of Lake Merritt
covers three major fields: (I) the pay-as-you-go
activities, such as the rental
of boats, canoes, storage
space, and launch trips to
the general public on a cost-
covering basis ; (2) co-
operation with various civic
organizations in the plan-
ning and conducting of
aquatic pageants and regat-
tas; (3) an organized pro-
gram of crew boat rowing
for schools, playground
groUps, industrial firms and
private organizations.

At least two major motor

Lake Merritt has long been a major factor
in attracting national interest to the city
of Oakland. Originally a part of the old
Rancho San Antonio, it was included in a
land grant from the Spanish Governor of
California to Luis Maria Peralta in l820.
Full proprietary rights to the property were
in I909 through an act
of the State Legislature, and from this date
there followed a period of rapid deve|0p-
ment. Dr. Samuel Merritt. then Mayor of
Oakland.’contributed much time and energy.
as well as personal funds, to transforming
this unsightly slough into a lake of beauty
and utility. Lake Peralto was named Lake
Merritt in honor of this outstanding citizen.

gained by the City

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

boat races are held on the Lake each year. For
several years the Mayor’s Fourth of July Com-
mittee has sponsored a program of events which
attracts both outboard and inboard motor boat
drivers from the Pacific Coast area. Of national
importance is the three-day series of races held
annually in September and sponsored by the Oak-
land Junior Chamber of Commerce. In designat-
ing Lake Merritt as “the bést one mile course in
America” the National Outboard Motor Boat As—
sociation cites the following advantages: the of—
ficially surveyed one—mile oval course providin
adequate room on the turns; a location in the geo
graphic center of the city with ample space for all
spectators (attendance often exceeds 2 5,000), and
smooth water surface at all times. Plans hav
been completed to bring the national champion
ship outboard races to Oakland in 1939‘ as an
added feature of the Golden Gate International
Exposition.

Rowing a Popular Sport

Rowing has, for many years, been a major 1ec-
reational activity on Lake Merritt. It is not L'n-
usual to find 20,000 or more enthusiasts, the ma-
jority being children of elementary school age,
participating each year in an organized program
of crew rowing. Crew equipment consists of .
fleet of twenty boats. In addition there are a hun
dred sets of oars stored at the main boat house b
various schools, both private and public, and b
several industrial firms. The boats, averaging 3
feet in length with a beam of six feet, will ac-
commodate a crew of twelve oarsmen, a pilot
coxswain and five passengers. They have been
purchased from the Mare Island Navy Yard, th
Alaska Packers Company and other shipping con
cerns. Being of wood construction, they are sel
dom used as lifeboats al
though ideally suited fo
recreational use after a gen-
eral overhauling and sligh
alterations. The 1936 crew
attendance figures show a
total of 21,372 participants
in this most popular activ-
ity. Of this number fully
75 percent were boys and
girls from the elementary
schools, with the balance in-
cluding high school girls,
Sea Scouts and industrial
crews. The fall term of the

\-

    

RECREA TION ON A MUYICIPAL LAKE 239

 

school year is devoted to elementary boys’ crews C. Third Race——[ntermediate Crews

hile the spring term 1s reserved for gll‘lS of the I 100 yards
l ame classihcation. In each case the rowing sea- 9- Fourth Race"1nexperienced Crews
. ° climaxed b r a crew re atta which can best . 100 YaI‘ClS
Eon ls . ) . g . .\0TE: The best crew of a school should be entered m
i 3 described by the {Ollowmg CIrCUIar Sent to eaCh thedirst race, providing the crew has had suHicient ex-
, ch00] playground director two weeks before the perience. The second, third, and fourth races are for the

purpose of giving crews experience in a regatta.

III. Rules Regarding Each Participant

RFCREATION DEPARTMENT A. Children convalescing from illness shall

C I v 0 not participate.
1'13 0F AKLAND B. Each child shall bring to the supervisor

cheduled race.

390"“ Date ’before the Regatta written permission
he Boys’ Crew Regatta will have two events: {Wm hi? Parent Permitting him to Par“
 I. Assembling and Embarking I tmpate In the race!
.' 2. Races IV. Rules of the Race
I. Assembling and Embarking A. Each boy will row or coxswain one race

only. The results of each race will be final
for that group. In case of a tie the tie
shall hold.

B. The playground supervisor shall sit in the
bow of the boat. He shall not give any
signs or motions to the coxswain during
the race. In case a question of coaching

A. Crews will be judged on:
1. Appearance.
(1. Marching
19. Position of oars
2. Embarking
a. Entering boat

b' Shove Off . . arises the judges will eliminate the boat.
II. Races c. The start of the races will be from the
A. First Race_ExpeI-ienced Crews main float, and crews will row directly

150 yards east.
B. Second Race—Second Crews 150 yards (Continued on Page 262)

 

 

Courtesy IVPA

New Outdoor Theaters

ARLY IN 1936 work was begun on a WPA
E project involving the erection of an open air
Greek amphitheater at California junior Col-
lege, San Bernardino, sponsored by the trustees
3f the college. The project, which was completed
early in 1937, has made it possible for the college
to hold large gatherings in comert outside. Dur-
ing the hot summer months when the college is
not in session the theater will be available-for
many co‘mmgpity gatherings. _, t‘ I
The cost’gof the structure which gavg employ—
ment to thirty men was slightly in’“ excess of

$18,000: IE‘is 240 feet in length and has a seating . a

capacity of 2,400, covering about 3,600 square
feet. The work included 1,160 cubic yardsibf
excavation, 960 cubic yards of fill, 415 cubic yards
of concrete, 600 lineal feet of drainage fill, and
the installation of 72 lighting units. -

A second outdoor project promoted by WPA
involved the construction of an open air theater
in Pastorius Park, Philadelphia, a fifteen acre plot
in a suburban section under the jurisdiction of the
Fairmount Park Commission.

The turf stage of the theater is liftyyfeet long .
by forty feet deep. The “wings” are of hemlock;

V‘  2‘":
‘

240

w

J‘ o

3:3.» with a dense plantation of deciduous and eve -
‘ vgreen trees beyond. The theater has a standiv§

hedge, so arranged with appropriate openings
permit the players to enter and retire ’without e
posing the “dressing rooms.” On either side a
a-' group of three cedars twenty feet high, risi ,
from clumps of dogwood, rhododendrons a1 
other shrubs which serve as a screen for t |
player offstage. Grouped in back of the stage a
large dogwobd‘s‘, pines and a thirty foot fiowe
ing locust in the center. A hedge of prostrate ye
in front of the stage forms a screen for the fo
lights. Outlets are installed to provide prop
lighting for night performances.

A reflecting pool, fed by a natural spring, sep
rates the stage from the “OrChestra pit” which
five feet beneath the stage. Stone bridges on eith
side of this pool provide entrances to the sta
from the theater.  .- I

' Radiating, fan—shaped, from the orchestra p
is the theater, laid out on several turf terrace ,l
which are connected by stone steps. A low evef-Lj
green hedge marks the background or “galleryfl
I
I
1

(Continued on page 263)
r .‘3 v a». .- 

‘1' v f I".

I “erT 5
5 J1.

History at Pittsburgh are

mounted groups of polar
bears, Rocky Mountain sheep
and Big Horns—magnificent
specimens in natural settings,
attracting thousands of visit- d
ors to catch a glimpse of the
wild life of the north and
west of this continent. Recently I sat in the li-
brary of the man who killed these animals, watch-
I ling moving pictures he had taken of the scenes of
the polar bear hunts. His home contains skins and
.‘heads as other evidences of his skill. He is a
prominent lawyer of an eastern Ohio city. His
wife told me that many of their winter evenings
were occupied in planning his trips for the next
year, that their son has accompanied him on some
of these trips, that the big game hunting had de-
veloped from a boyhood love of the out of doors
and of hunting squirrels and rabbits, and that long
ago he had ceased to kill except for such scientific
Ipurposes as the museum groups, and that much
of his hunting was now done with the camera.

IN THE Museum of Natural

   
  
  
   
 
  
   

Collecting Things

Another evening in a friend’s family occurs to
me—the scene,‘when I called, of father, mother
and the two children gathered around the dining
' room table sorting out a new lot of stamps that
had just arrived, classifying them by country and
denomination and date, and calling each other’s
attention to unusual designs or to historic events
commemorated.

Collecting is a hobby that extends from stamps
to big game hunting, that may include everything
'from the small beginnings of the dolls of all na-
' tions, belonging to a young girl of my acquain-

tance, to Henry Ford’s inclusive collection of
Lmeans of transportation exhibited in Greenfield
3' Village.

Creating Things
On the desk of a superintendent of schools
‘ whom I visited not long ago stood a vase with one
of the most beautiful roses I have ever seen—
perfect in its burnished golden color, its straight,
firm stem and its close, shapely petals. Admiring
it, I learned it was from his own garden, that

By WILLIAM G. ROBINSON

District Representative
National Recreation Association

Hobbies and Homes

Radio Talk, Parental Education
Series, University of Michigan

flowers were his occupation
and interest, outside of school,
that all his family spent
hours, not only in the care
of the garden but in plan-
ning it.

The basement of another
friend of mine has a work
bench along the whole side—
power machinery for turning and sawing, shelves
and hooks with tools neatly arranged. His two
boys work with him many evenings and holiday
hours. Model boats, model airplanes, inlaid tables,
handy brackets for the bath room and shelves for
the kitchen—~—-this home is full of examples of the
skill and workmanship of the family group.

In one neighborhood I know friends have com-
mented on the delightful music that comes almost
nightly after the dinner hour from a family of
five, each of whom plays an instrument.

Making things—music, gardens, copper lan-
terns, model trains, radio cabinets, costume
jewelry, landscapes, photographs—is one of the
great fields of hobbies.

All of the intense interests that we commonly
classify as hobbies can be included, I believe,
under collecting or making. They have many com-
mon characteristics. In the first place they cut
across age groups; any real hobby interest may
be followed by youth or age, man or woman.
Their possibilities develop with increasing age.
They afford opportunity for wide and varied
study, for unlimited development of skills and in-
sights, and frequently for high qualities of inven-
tion and creation.

A True Hobby is Personal

1 do not think of those activities that require a
group or team for their expression as hobbies. A
true hobby is a personal, intimate matter, capable
of enjoyment by oneself, to be shared only with a
few kindred souls from time to time, with the
family or the group organized around a common
interest. All the examples I have given include
the family in their expression and few influences
have greater power to keep a family united than
a hobby. From the standpoint of child develop-
ment there is no more natural plane on which to
build such qualities as affection and control and

241

242 HOBBIES AND HOMES

concentration than on a hobby shared by parent
and child. A hobby cannot be forced on one, even
a child, but how naturally the child whose father
loves to fish becomes a fisherman; how often the
youth loves poetry because of the evening hours
of reading aloud around the fireplace; how often
the knack with tools we sometimes call inherited
is really just the result of hanging around Dad’s
work bench.

Riding a Hobby

There is much justification for the derivation
of our word hobby from an old word for horse.
The little child is fortunate who has a hobby horse
to ride; the grown up who has a hobby to ride.
Horseback riding is great fun and exercise at all
times of the year, at all ages of life, and in all
kinds of country, rugged as well as flat ; it is more
fun off the crowded thoroughfares of life. So
with hobbies.

The horse we ride belongs just to us, for the
time being anyhow. We have to manage him or
perchance be run away with. We can select our
own as to size and color and spirit, or decide on
none. Once mounted, however, the real horse and
horseman become identified in the breath-taking
ga110p over fields and hedges, or the gentle walk
on country road. Even so we may ride a hobby,
as a quiet and refreshing interval in duties, or an
absorbing adventure crowding out all lesser in-
interests. For hobbies may run away with one as
well as horses.

. Ives prints; his wife’s is old American glass. A

and oil, such waste is small compared to our waste

of mine has a hobby of collecting Currier andl

   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 

law school professor of my acquaintance collects
and makes model sailing ships. My own boy has
got us all interested in moths. I needn’t mention
tropical fish as a possibility. Beautiful needle-
work is not as common with us as with our grand-
parents. Some homes may show the varied hob-
bies of the family—the violin case in the corner;
the beautiful dahlias on the table; the clay model
on the mantel, or the artistic photograph on the
wall. Where else can collections, pets and crafts
be housed than in the home? Somehow or other
I am inclined to insist that the real home must
shelter a hobby as the real barn shelters a horse.

W e can never be sure where a horseback ride
may take us. Nor a hobby. The man who knows
more about the cliff dwellers than anyone else on
earth is a hardware merchant in New Mexico
with whom archeology is a hobby. Photography
started as a hobby with George Eastman when he
was a young clerk. We all remember 'reading very
recently of the discovery of a comet by a garage
mechanic, an amateur astronomer. Flying was a
hobby study of the Wright brothers while they
made a living from a bicycle shop.

Howard Braucher, Secretary of the National
Recreation Association, in a recent editorial in
the magazine RECREATION said, “Great as has been
our waste of natural resources in land, and coal

of creative craft capac—

One other likeness I
hope is not too far
fetched. A horse must
have a place to live—a
barn. Few structures
are more forlorn than a
garage made over from
a barn—a barn without
.a horse. Equally for-
lorn to me is the home
without a hobby. Isn’t
it the hobby that gives
the house the distinc-
tion that makes it a
home, the distinguish—
ing feature that im-
presses you when you
enter the door or even
before that when you
enter the gate if there
is a garden? One friend

"In the glamorous days of Merrie England when
Geoffry Chaucer. the Father of English poetry. was
writing his magic verse. a horse was often called a
hobbyn, and as time moved on apace and the lan-
guage was improved. this was changed to bobby.
The morris dance was a great favorite in those pris-
tine times and it was executed in pageants. panto-
mimes. at festivals and the like. The dancers wore
the fancy costumes of Robin Hood. Maid Marian
and other legendry characters. and there was always
one of them who essayed the role of the hobby—-
horse. This animule consisted of a small dummy
figure of a horse through whose body was a large
hole; the performer slipped this figure over his own
body and fastened it to his waist. As he pranced
and cavorted around he was apparently riding the
horse. but. as a matter of precise statement. the
horse was riding him. all of which provided no end
of merriment. From the antics of this burlesque
horsey came the colloquial expression riding a
hobby, which has come to mean the act of pursu-
ing some obiect without apparently achieving any

useful purpose." A. Frederick Collins in How
to Ride Your Hobby.

ity in men and women,
for adding to the beauty
of the world. Culture is
not a matter of I words
and sounds alone. The
hands may speak also,
may convey messages,
may reveal thoughts
and emotions too deep
and too sacred for care—
less easily uttered words.
Out of the depths of a
supposedly inarticulate
person may come a mes-
sage, sculptured;
carved.” or
The Rewards of
Hobby Riding
But whether the hob-y

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 

by makes a contribution' ,
(Continued on. page 263) ‘

‘D
i
ll\

Handicraft and Recreation

F WE CONSIDER the word “rec-
reation” in its truest sense, it

I means more than merely a
Way to fill up the leisure hours
dveryone has or should have in a
[life full of work. Recreation in
its proper sense means that there
is something to recreate in our
being which, in the hustle-bustle
and intense energy expenditure
of our machine age, cannot be
ound in the natural means of
leep, food, rest or vacations.
IIodern living injures something in our existence
hat needs a kind of curing and healing, a kind of

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
    
 
   
    
  
   
   
  

his reason we need recreation.

Fortunately, most of us still have a natura1,well-
onditioned feeling that we do need such a recrea-
ion therapy. After hours clerk-stool workers hurry
ut for fresh air, walks or sports; those who have
verused their bodies want some mental or esthetic
ercise in their free time. We have an elemen-
ry propensity to find an equivalent for our one—
ided professional life. Most recreational therapy,
owever, whether it arises from personal impulse
r social guidance, is highly unconscious, unscien-
'fic and unsystematic. Consequently, all these
well-meaning attempts do not have half the suc-
ess they could or should have. We need a syste-
atic and scientific recreational therapy which not
nly looks to certain individual desires for ex-

will be long until such a real and adequate rec-
.eational therapy will be created.*

.Our peculiar need is to deve10p in the public
nd in social spheres a special interest in this
problem, by making the fundamental problems
known and discussing them. One of the most im—
portant of these aspects for a discussion of the
psychology of recreation I believe to be that of

handicraft.

Handicraft as Genuine Recreational Therapy
Interest in handicraft has been happily increas-

By DR. ERNST HARMS
BaltimoreI Maryland

This brief discussion of the psy-
chology of recreation. particu-
larly the analysis of handicraft
and its therapeutic valuesI will
be of keen interest to recrea-
tion workers who are eager to
understand the
motivation back of some of
our recreational activities.

reasons and

herapy, in our unhealthy everyday life. It is for -

hardly in accordance with the
forms that should be developed

for the task of a real recreational

mean either such things as In-
diancraft and applied and decora-
tivearts, or the playcraft of our
youth in the inventor-age with its
continuation in utility craft
forms. That handicraft, how-
ever, which could be of influence
and which is of the greatest im-
portance for the evils of our social situation, is of
quite another form. It should be a serious social
principle which could contribute much toward re-
gaining the social equivalence we have lost under
the unsound and unbalanced technocratic system
of modern civilization. One of the most valuable
effects of the social successes of such a real handi-
craft culture’ would be that of the conception of
recreation which is offered here. i

The importance of handicraft in this wider con-
ception lies in the influence working with the hands
and all forms of manual doing have upon human
nature itself. Some time ago a clever English
psychotherapist tried to introduce knitting and
needlework among the English nobility as a medi-
cine against mild forms of neuroses. This treat-
ment was based on an insight into the real recre-
ational value of handicraft. Such an insight, un-
fortunately, is very seldom found today. Hand-
work is regarded more as a mere “doing with the
hands” and a “making” of this'or that. There
must be at first a very simple mental and psychic
concentration, far simpler than that required for
reading a scientific book, a task too difficult and
psychically disturbing for many pe0p1e. Simple
concentration, however, is a very important ele-
ment in all mental calming and in every recrea-
tion. But this is only a first element. All handi—
craft activity has to do with some esthetic and
especially rhythmic elements.

It is really tragic that today we are unconscious
of the importance all rhythmical processes have in
daily existence. Our heart has its beat; we could

 

*W'hat W. R. Dunton offers in his book called f‘Recreatiqnal
Therapy” is not identical. with my use of this .expressmn.
Dunton gives only an outline for the use of physical culture
and sports for the inmates of hospitals for mental diseases.

243

244 HANDICRAFT AND RECREATION

not stand upright without a sense of balance; our
whole body is built on symmetrical lines. For
primitive peoples recreation was and is, there-
fore, a necessity for the wonderful Flowering of
the “folklore” arts which were as necessary for
these people as bread and water—and they were
brought forth in answer to a human need. The
greatest part of our corresponding activities to-
day is not directed by this human necessity, but by
the economic interests and processes which have
built up Ollr modern industrial and mechanistic
civilization. Even modern arts in applied forms,

as well as in individual fine art creations, are to-

day conceived more along sociological and “civi-
lization” lines than along esthetic lines which cor-
respond to the esthetic ground-forces of human
nature. The simplest piece of needlework or
woodword demands a creative effort for its very
existence. We answer this esthetic and self-form-
ing need of our being by doing such work.

A further point. is that of the adaptation and
re-accommodation to reality. To deal with this
problem alone would require an entire book. It
might almost be called the ground-principle of all
our prevailing civilized activity, to replace the
work of the human hand by machine or technical
nieans. And in addition we desire a mass pro-
duction in which each unit shall be‘ as cheap as
possible. Both together have this result: the in-
dividual is only to a very small extent brought
into a concrete connection with all the things that
compose his life-environment and his own crea-
tive activity. And so no one has the concrete re-
lationship to reality which earlier men had. This
relationship not only produced far greater values,
characteristic of all earlier cultures, but also the
greater mental strength and the undoubtably
greater mental health of earlier centuries.

The earlier man, who himself did all things he
needed for his life, also had a greater practical
knowledge, a better wisdom, concerning the world
about him and his relationship to it. This does
not mean that we should advertise a “retournons
a la nature,” give up all values of our civilization,
produce lire by friction, make all our own tools,
measure time by the sun, and do away with auto-
mobiles, railroads and the telegraph; but that we
should find equivalences for this all-too-necessary
orientation in a modern educational way. We be-
lieve science can give us all necessary knowledge,
but this is only an abstract and intellectual gift. A
real, practical knowledge of life cannot be gained
through science alone.

'more certain in his knowledge of distance a

     

There is, of course, little credence in the beli
that only through handicraft can such a knox
edge be won, especially through such aids as c
be truly called therapeutical. Yet the necessity 1
having a real intercourse with the materials of o
life-world, with wood, stone, metal, cloth a
thread, certainly gives a sounder relationship
the whole of the civilized world than does me
second-hand reading. And to learn and practi
the art of measurement; to be forced to exactn
in the production of this or that object; to pr
tice repetition and reproduction in handicraft .
tivity,‘such as knitting a gown or carving a tool
these give a definite connection, a “sympath
with all similar processes in the environmen

world.

In this respect we learn great things by doi
small things. Whoever has trained himself to a
actitude, punctuality, eye-measuring and ot
skills in the-handicrafts, will exhibit the s
qualities in the wider spheres of life. He will

time. He will be more prompt and will recogni
many things which had been unknown or unc
tain to him before. One cannot stress too mu
the tragic influence life in our technical and ov
industrialized world has on the mass neuroses . I
other mental ailments of our time. The sou
mind needs a concrete relationship to its enviro
ment. Without this, insecurity and 'anxiety cre
mild or even serious mental diseases. Everyo
knows of the humorous types among modern pr
fessional women and borough chairmen. Th
and many other social-abnormal traits of our a
we usually take as curiosities; however, from t
psychopathological point .Of View they are u
happy results of our whole civilization. Th
must be counterbalanced by a kind of recreati
for' which the best remedium seems to be a tr

developed handicraft education and handicr
cultUre. Everyone has these traits, even if he a
lieves they are the peculiar possession of his nei
bor. Nevertheless, everyone feels that he nee
some equivalences. Indeed, it is this very unawar
ness of actual causes that makes it so difficult

recognize the beneficial elements of this recr
tion therapy.

The Practical Side

Of course, this large field cannot be treat
more thoroughly in such a brief article. All t
can be done is to add a few paragraphs about t

( Continued on page 265)

}_;

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    

OMEONE has said that the only way of
S lengthening the day is stealing a few

I hours from the night. The Decatur, Il-
linois, Recreation Department has done just
this.

Back in 193 5 the city’s recreation officials
saw the need of lengthening the hours of.
play. The necessity for meeting the increasing de-
mand for recreation with limited facilities was a
real problem. The city sought to solve this prob—
lem by extending the day through the artificial
lighting _of its recreation areas. This was not a
new idea but with us it proved a real solution.
When the first set of lights was installed the rec-
reation program was financed through the Com-
munity Chest and through contributions from the
city, park and school boards. (Decatur has since
voted for a permanent recreation system.) Funds
for any additional developments in the way of
facilities had to be secured from all who cared to
share in what was to be a profitable investment——
dividends in happiness and satisfaction!

The first ground was lighted as an experiment.
Donations were received from industrial fellow—
ship clubs, from the police and fire departments
who put on an annual baseball game to raise
money, and from
dads’ clubs. La-~
bor for the erec-
tion of the lights
was supplied by
the city. A real
transformation
was the result.
Boys and girls
who had previ—
ously loafed on
street corners or
park benches
took an active in—

l .
iterest 1n the pro-
1

The lighting of
play areas makes
folk dancing at
night possible

Where Night ls Turned lnto Day

The only way of lengthening the day, some
one has said, is to steal a few hours from
the night. The Recreation Department of
Decatur, lllinois, has done exactly that!

By CHARLES K. BRIGHTBILL

Superintendent of Public Recreation
DecaturI Illinois

gram, and men and women from industry joined
adult baseball and volley ball leagues. The entire
neighborhood showed a new Spirit.

This experiment proved only the beginning of
our lighting program. ‘Not satisfied with one ac—
complishment, the officials in charge launched a
definite program to achieve the lighting of all the
grounds in the city in a certain period of years.

The following summer four more playgrounds
were lighted, three of them in cooperation with «
the local school district. By this plan the schools
and the Recreation Department shared the cost of
purchasing the equipment, with the understanding
that the schools would use the lights for their

(Continued on page 265)

 

You Asked for it!

Question: My super-visor wants me to promote

leagues but my boys don"t want to be bothered-

with regular teams. They prefer to “pick up sides”

and there are always just enough on the play:

ground at one time to have two teams. Can you
offer a suggestion?

Answer: More power to your supervisor! He
has the right idea. He probably could tell you how
to run leagues but maybe he is trying you out just
to see how resourceful you are. You will please
him and your youngsters and throw out your
chest if you successfully organize several leagues.
It can be done. Try this plan. Select four leaders.
Explain that you want to try out the league idea
and get them to promise to help. Supply paper,
pencils, and a list of 40 or 50 names. Hold a
drawing. Number I picks a player, then number
2 takes a man. So do 3 and 4. Now permit num-

ber 4 to pick another, then number 3, 2 and I‘

make selections. Give number I first chOice on
the next round and continue until every man has
ten or twelve players. Now arrange the schedule
for a round or six games. Eleain that captains
will hold daily meetings and that each can add
new names and that players can be traded (big
league stuff) with the consent of the other cap-
tains. If the league has been successful and the
players have enjoyed the games the teams will
soon have too many players. Here is your chance
to multiply by dividing! Select two, or prefer-
ably four more captains (don’t be afraid of skele-
ton teams) and set up more teams either as an
eight team league or two four team leagues. With
good luck and good manage—
ment you will soon have a
good many teams playing in
leagues.
Here are a few helpful hints

I. Use score cards and see
that line ups, substitutions,
goals, fouls, scores or hits
are kept with accuracy. Pre-
serve these cards. Post team
standings regularly.

2. In the early days permit
a team which is short of
players to fill out with non-
team members. A good rule

246

With this issue we are initiating the
plan of publishing a Question and
Answer page in RECREATION. L. C.
Gardner, Superintendent of Wesley
House, St. Louis' has started the ball
rolling by sending us the material we
are presenting in this issue. l

The page is an experiment, and it will
not be successful unless readers of the
magazine give us their hearty coopera-
tion. Write us about some of the ques-
tions which are troubling you and we will

try to secure answers from those who
have faced similar problems.
' Let us make this page one to which

readers will look forward each month.

is to have the opposing captain designate the “ r
in” players. _

3. Have boundary lines, or foul lines clear
marked. Chalk or whiting will do indoors. 0
doors a mark can be scratched with a pick or
large nail.

4. Make it a rule never to umpire or refer
Train your officials, including score keepers a
timers, at special meetings.

!
I

Question: On hot summer days our attendan
falls of because the youngsters go swimmin
H ow can playground workers meet this problem

Answer: We are told that when the mountai
would not come to Mohammed he went to t .
mountain. Can you blame your youngsters if the
prefer to splash in cool water instead of playi
on a hot playground? Isn’t swimming just .
beneficial as anything they might do on the pla
ground? Why not arrange to go with them at a
pointed times? (Of course you will get permi
sion to leave the playground.) If you help the
enjoy their swimming hour they are likely to co
to the playground for other activities. Hot weat
er, rainy days, and counter attractions should I
regarded as a challenge to your resourcefulness.

   
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
  

Question: Volley Ball is not popular with th
people in my neighborhood. I like the game an
want it to become a regular part of our progra
Please advise me.

Answer: Two suggestions come to mind. Firs
as to equipment. Keep your court neatly marke
Have a good ball available .
all times. Keep the net i
good condition and tight]
stretched. This is importan
Second, to stimulate intere
in Volley Ball you migh
break the game down to it
elements and run contest
Serving for distance. Ser
ing for accuracy ,— drax
squares on the ground an
try to hit a given square wit
a served ball. Put groups 0 !
live on one side of the cour ‘

(Continued on page 267) |

l

l"

 

A Community Goes Vacationing

By CAROLYN NICE

E IN MOORESTOWN made the same mistake
Wthat so many small and semi-rural com-

munities have made when we attempted to
imitate the city playgrounds in our summer rec-
reation program. I blush to say that until last
year we even called the summer pr0gram a “play-
ground program,” and we deliberately and inex-
cusany closed our eyes to the possibilities of our
peculiar assets, and failed to realize that in our
own backyards‘and the warm welcome of our
cedar woods and lakes we had the equipment for
a particularly happy summer! What need to copy
the routine necessary to urban areas when we
could look about us and see opportunities for a
far richer program? In the hope that our experi-
ment in Moorestown may prove interesting or en-
couraging to those who are faced with similar
problems, I am presenting a brief summary of the
summer experiment of 1936.

A few miles from Philadelphia. on the New
Jersey side, Moorestown spreads her population
of 7,500 along five miles of old King’s Highway.
For any kind of Social activity the town must be
considered in three distinct sec-
tions. Lenola, separated from the
town proper by a mile and a half
of farm land, is a cluster of small
bungalows occupied by people at—
tempting to own their homes.
Their struggle is not only finan-
cial, but cultural as well. The

Miss Nice is Director of Girls'
Activities at the Moorestown
Community House. The program
she describes here was carried
on under her leadership and
that of Charles Juliano. Director
of Activities for Men and Boys.

Negro population of some 700, literally “across
the tracks” to the north, is made up largely of a
group independent through Moorestown domestic
service and eager for recreation. Moorestown
proper has its 4,000 typical small town home own-
ers and house renters with the expected diversi-
fied interests. Culture and wealth have more than
the usual representation in a large group of beau-
tiful homes and estates whose owners contribute
materially t0 the welfare and character of the
town.

Perhaps we may be excused for being unduly
proud of one of the finest and most beautiful com-
munity houses in the country, a gift from one of
Moorestown’s citizen friends. A rambling red
brick house of Old English architecture gives
h'loorestonians access to a perfectly equipped
gymnasium, swimming pool, library, rooms for
games, club meetings and a nursery school. On
the surrounding grounds are tennis and quoit
courts and a play area. In their own offices in the
building trained social workers and visiting nurses
are accessible for family or individual consulta-
tion and service—and we are
learning to use them all. Supple-
mentary centers in Lenola and
the colored section provide game
and club rooms, and each section
has its own ball field. \Vithin a
ten mile radius of the town, acres
of pine woods, lakes and perma-

247

248 A COA-IMUNITY GOES VACATIONING

*" 4r“.
. s7 "
nent camp sites offer places Ls’uitable for picnics,
hiking and overnight ,camping. Moorestown’s
proximity to seashore resfqrts and metropolitan at-
tractions makes a vacation recreation group an
ever-changing one.

No one would have discovered, in the simple
summer set-up for £936, any trace of the arti-
ficial 1935 program. The plan read like a grand
summer holiday for the entire community. One
glanced down the page to find handcrafts on Mon-
days and W'ednesdays-wtwo hours without inter-
ruption to draw, carve, paint, saw and hammer.
Alternate days held promise of cool swims for
every child, free of charge, where even the most
timid might learn to keep afloat. Tennis, the com-
pletely summer game, had its intricacies demon-
strated and taught in the early afternoon. And the
gymnasium offered space enough for everyone to
try tap dancing later. An hour of story—telling,
with its sequel'of story play, meant .dress-up fun
for little girls. The spell of baseball held a sum-'
mer’s entertainment for all the boys, with leagues
in all parts of town and a field within easy walk-
ing distance. This promised twilight diversion for
girls and parents half the evenings of the week.
A beach, a lake, a lunch and a hot summer day——
who doesn’t love a picnic? Picnics for everyone,
with the weather man under contract for plenty of
sunshine! Caravan trips for all day at camp, or
overnight camping in the pines beside a lake
promised a weekly specialty for the Girl Scouts,

while the boys were booked for a trip to see the
“Phillies” play.

Handcraft Had Its Enthusiasts

The program was not mere pleasant reading; it
worked! A crowd waited impatiently for the
opening hour of the handcraft period each day
and trooped in, intent Upon the unfinished 'work
or eager for a new project. From simple forms
of craft work which each child did as a prerequi—
site to the more difficult and expensive pieces, in—
terest and endeavor ran high. From the beginning
of a design on paper until the last nail was pound—
ed there was rarely a lapse into indifference.

There were things for the children to make for
themselves, and there were articles to be made for
others. The major part of the handcraft allot-
ment of $40 went for tools, paint, nails, glue and
shellac. A very small percentage bought materials,
yet 250 children made 550 articles during the
summer, and all of them went into use! Materi-

als were literally picked up— scrap copper. lead

and tin from a local plumber at a nominal cost:
wood from packing boxes successfully camou-
flaged with paint; ordinary window lights for sil—
houettes; serpentines for colorful ash trays and
coasters, and scrap leather for belts.

_ I In the Pool

In the pool the water sports were as popular as
they always seem to be. The tiniest of the tin
tots stepped off the bottom step to find her nos
submerged under two inches of blue water, he
eyes showing round and surprised above it. Noth
ing daunted, she persevered until the dead man’
float and swimming the width of the pool wer
mere preliminaries to the day’s lesson. Some fort
odd children under eight years of age' swarme
into the pool the first period earth-morning, girl
and boys on alternate days. With unior life saver.
as assistants for the more timid, every child man
aged to overcome fear of the water and do at leas
the dead man’s float, while the majority reall
learned a_ stroke that would carry them across th
pool. There was also an hour for the eight t
twelve-year—olds and special advanced lessons fo
the junior life savers.

Irresistible Rhythm

The rhythm of music for many youngsters wa
expressed in bodily movement, in the interpreta
tion of phrase and time through dancing. Fro
Mary Ann who had just turned three to fourteen
year-old Sally, seventy rhythm-minded youngster
tapped through a summer of “Polish Your Shoe,’
“Rubber Legs,” “Turkey in the Straw,” aif
“East Side, West Side.” For a thorough enjoy
ment of the rhythm of popular or folk tunes, tap
clog and soft shoe dancing offer an activity tha
has no substitute. More than that, it is fun—an
what better recommendation could there be?

Baseball in All Kinds of Weather

Even the hottest afternoon did not discourag
the tennis enthusiasts. With determination the
swung their racquets through lesson practice an
match games. Baseball, the all-American game
would spring to life on the ball field even on -
hot summer day when one boy appeared, bat an
ball in hand. In five minutes the game was we]
under way. Twilight ball for the men was nearl_
as spontaneous and drew all the non-playing neigh
borhood to cheer, advise and console the teams
Every evening found games of softball or har '

(Continued on page 268) 

 

"Batter Up!”

. Milwaukee has held its
“3 First baseball school,
and the story of this
-' interesting venture is
full of human interest

" \TTER UP!” America’s great
B national game gets under
way again . . . in backyards,
0n sandlots. in imposing and costly '
metropolitan stadiums. It begins,
'too, with new zest for Brooks.
Brooks is eight—or rather eight
and a half to be exact and as full
of up-and-at ’em as any boy in
Milwaukee’s classrooms or its play-
'grounds. “I can’t understand him,” said Mother
'Boyce to Brooks’ dad when he came home that
'evening. “He positively refuses to comb his hair
lor let any one touch it. \Vhat do you suppose has
lgotten into him it”
It came out when dad questioned him.
“So even though you weren’t old enough, Don
Dyer took you to the opening of the Municipal
Recreation Department’s new Baseball School?
. . . . u-m-m-m, I SEE l” Hadn’t he been one of the
300 boys who sat with goggle eyes and mouths .
Ilike 0’s in the social center school gym watching
Fabian Gaffke show how he gripped his bat, how
lhe stood in the batter’s box and took a cut at that
-white pill that Lefty Grove whizzed over the left
corner of the plate? “Gee, Dad, you shoulda seen
’im! He’s with the Boston Red Sox now .
they took ’im right from the Milwaukee teamll
Gee, you shoulda seen, ’I'm!” And the movies . . .
Lefty Grove, W' es Ferrell, Lou Gehrig and all of
them! And wonder of miracles, as Gaffke finished
answering the dozens of eager questions from all
‘ over the gym, didn’t he come right off the plat—
' form and sit plunk down beside Brooks to watch
the movies himself. A never-to-be-forgotten m0-
ment—a hero-dream come true!

Courtesy Ohio WPA

 

 

Then Mr. Dyer had said they would have to
leave, even though it was not over. Leave? Leave
that precious seat? Mists had come to those brown
eyes, and he’d tripped going down the aisle as he
vainly kept his head turned in an endeavor to keep
his hero in sight. But wise assistant director that
he is, Don Dyer had glimpsed that furtive tear on
the wet lashes as they had passed through the
door, so he stopped and said, “Brooks, don’t you
think you’d better go back and tell Gaffke good-
bye?” Glory be! With heart pounding like twin
trip-hammers and cap twisted in twitching lingers
had he not gone back through that crowded aisle
and stammered a “Good luck, Mister Gaffke, an’
—an’, an’ I hope you make good with the Red
Sox l” And had not that big barrel-chested fellow
with an understanding heart as big as a ball park
grinned a wide grin as he reached over with a
paw the size of a small ham and ruffled the hair
of the eight-year—old touslehead? “Thanks a heap,
son; I'll do my best for you!” he said.

“would YOU comb YOUR hair, Dad, if he’d done
that to you? W ould you now?” Brooks wanted
to know . . . . no common ordinary comb was go-
ing to profane THAT touch; not much! “A comb
can’t get through a halo, Margaret,” said Mr.

249

250 “BA TTER UP!”

Boyce to his wife afterward. And it didn't for
three full days!

Teach baseball to boys? Teach fish to swim?
Well. nearly 4,000 youngsters like Brooks vol-
untarily attended the indoor sessions one after—
noon a week for three weeks in four different
social centers, one in each quarter of Milwaukee.
They gaped at their big-league teachers who were
doing their bit for American boydom before leav-
ing for their spring-training trips; they asked a
thousand questions “\V hen do you get up in the
morning ?" “\Vhat do you eat?” “Will you really
see Dizzy Dean?” “How do you train?” “What
signals does your team use ?” Milwaukee natives,
these big-leaguers with a zest for kids and a
memory of their own back-lot boyhood took it
swinging! Chet Laabs of the Detroit Tigers, Jack
Kloza of the Milwaukee Club, George McBride,
former manager of the Washington Senators,
Steve Cozington,_ former Chicago White Sox
player, Lou Nahin, Vice-President of the Milwau-
kee Club which last year furnished the baseballs
for over seventy-live “kid” teams in the new
school-boy “Stars of Yesterday” league, with each
team named after a popular Milwaukee team
player, they took it and liked it!

Then, after those three weeks, came the out-
door sessions of this interesting baseball school
originated by Gerald Muller, one of the Depart-
ments recreation directors. These, under the direc—
tion of Bunny Brief, former third baseman for the
“Brewers,” ran until June, when the one hun-
dred teams forming this year will swing into
league action-*over 1,200 boys playing the good
old hard—ball baseball on'regulation diamonds in
four sections of the city! Brief, engaged by the
Municipal Department for the season, ran these
leagues following the eight weeks of “lessons.”
“Professor” Brief used the method of teaching
the boys as they play, showing them how to play
all the positions, illustrating the rules of the game,
building into their very fibre the enduring quali-
ties inherent in true sportsmanship. On rainy
days the field house provided the natural place for
“skull” talks and blackboard illustration. Before

“school” was out the boys had instrUCtion in the
following:

CATCHER

l—How to size up batter

2—\Vhat pitches to call for
3—\Vatching men on bases

4—The throw to a base-pitchout, etc.
5—How to field bunts

__ ball. One of these is entitled “How to Conduct a Bas
ball School."

6—How to study a pitcher
7—-Backing up throws to first and third
8—How to tag runners at the plate

PITCH ER

l—How to size-up batter

2—How to hold runners on bases

3—How ‘to field bunts

4—Backing up throws to the infield from the outfiel

5—then to back up the catcher on plays at the pla

6—When to cut of? plays from the outfield to the
catcher

7—How to cover first base

 

FIRST AND TH'IRD BASE

1—How to tag the bag

Z—Position with no one on base

3—Position with men on base

4—How to field bunts

5—How to tag runners

6—Where to throw the 'ball with men on base

7—How to assist in running down men trapped
between bases

8—Holding men on base

9—The outfield relay throw

SECOND BASE AND SHORTSTOP

l—Position of fielder with respect to type of batter
Z—W'here to throw
3—Holding men on second

' 4—Taking the catcher’s throw
5—How to tag the runner
6—Double plays
7—The short outfield Hy
8—~‘Outfie1d relay throw

OUTFIELD

1—P1aying the hitter

2—-—-Judging the fly ball

3—Starting with the hit

4—Thr0wing after the catch

S—VV here to throw on a clean hit with men on base
6—Where to throw after a catch with men on bases
7—Backing up, infield and outfield

8—Relaying the ball

BATTING

l—How to grip the bat
2—Stance at the plate
3—The swing

4—The bunt

5—Hitting behind the runner
6—The sacrifice hit
7—Hit-and4run play

8—The squeeze play

NOTE: The Athletic Institute, 209 South State Stre
Chicago, issues a number of bulletins of interest to re
reational groups in teaching boys the techniques of has

uYou’re  the Air!"

P TO THE present time, the
uses -of radio in connec-
tion with recreational ac-

°vities have been mainly of two

inds: first, broadcast programs of various sorts
f—musical features, talks on special subjects, and

. rograms which have been utilized in connection

i'ith recreational projects along similar lines of

nterest; and secondly, programs provided by rec-

l eation departments for the encouragement of the

f idespread interest which exists among boys in
he technical aspects of radio transmission and re-

: pption. But little has been done in another fertile

I eld—broadcasting itself as a leisure-time activity.

There are many persons, both youths and adults,

' ho are greatly interested in radio, which they

. k upon (and rightly so) as sharing the romance
d glamor which have traditionally belonged to

l
E older cousins, the theater and the newspaper.
l

   

\

my desire a more intimate acquaintance with,
d if possible even participation in, the process
broadcasting. ‘As an adequate outlet for their
it terest, as well as a refreshingly new activity for
tablished leisure-time drama groups, amateUr
I lio dramatics is filled with fascinating possi-
l ities.
As is well known, many great figures on the
n itimate stage have turned to the radio as a new
3 cl challenging dramatic medium, and many es-
. ‘ lished playwrights have found in broadcasting
' lcome freedom from the physical limitations of
I e stage. Mr. Archibald Mac—
ish’s recent experiment in
mm drama, The Fall of the
'ty, has suggested the vast
tistic possibilities existing in
t e new playhouse in which
t1 3 microphone is the only vis-
ible audience and the array of
Sound-effect devices the only
properties. The group which
is found in every city, town,
nd hamlet, putting on plays
for the sheer joy of play-act-

I:

By RICHARD D. ALTICK

Lancaster. Pennsylvania

Mr. Alticlc has for some time been as-
sociated with amateur radio dramatic
worl<. first as the founder and di- d
rector of a successful radio little the- e ’
ater composed of college students
and young business men and women.
and later as a member of the staff of
a broadcasting station. His experience
has convinced him that the recreation
program of any community which has
access to a broadcasting station can
be greatly enlivened and enrich-
ed by provision for radio dramatics.

A presentation of some of the values of
’3 . radio dramatics in the recreation program

ing, will find radio dramatics of
the keenest interest. There are
no problems of stage-setting or
li‘ghting; no wearisome hours
spent in working up the proper gestures and ac—
tions; no hall to hire, no tickets to sell. The atten—
tion of the entire group is centered upon the single
requisite of radio drama, which is, after all, the
essence of all drama, the effective use of the
spoken word.

Advantages in Radio Production of Drama

In addition, because radio not only eliminates the
visual side of the drama—scenery, properties and
action—but also makes memorizing unnecessary,
the company is relieved of the monotony which
often creeps into even the most enthusiastic ama-
teur enterprise as long weeks are spent in the
preparation of a single evening’s entertainment.
Radio makes it possible to work on a new play
every week, or even oftener if circumstances per-
mit, and the company’s repertoire and experience
can be enlarged indefinitely. One week the play
may be a farce, the next a seriOUS problem-piece,
and the next a light romance; the variety is in-
finite, hence interest need never lag.

Again, radio makes it possible for the first time
for handicapped groups to present finished dra—
matic programs, since crippled children or adults,
for example, can produce as polished a broadcast
play as any normal group. Nor are there any
financial worries in radio dra-
matics— for there are no ex-
penses but the cost of scripts.
and even this may be eliminat-
as will be noted in a
moment.

The great success of such
national dramatic programs as
the “Lux Radio Theater,” the
“March of Time.” and the
popular serial stories has made
radio stations everywhere
more than eager to schedule

251

252

local dramatic features. Station managers are de—
lighted to extend their facilities to amateur groups
of this sort, since the regular presentation of
dramas makes it possible to replace “fill-in” pro—
grams of records or transcriptions with “live
talent” features of great listener-interest, and cul-
tivates the good will of the community, without
which no station can flourish.

Some .Technical Considerations

Radio drama has, of course, different script re-
quirements from stage plays. Action can only be
suggested, either by spoken lines or by appropri—
ate sounds, and brief explanatory comments may,
if necessary, be added by the announcer or nar-
rator. Amateur radio groups may obtain their
scripts from two sources: they may either secure
them at a small fee (Usually two dollars for a half
hour script, royalty free) from reliable firms in
the large cities, which have thousands of plays
from which to choose, or write them themselves.

The latter method was used with outstanding
success in the company with which the writer was
associated. During the summer of 1936 it pre—
sented “Headlines on Review,” a series of drama—
tizations of memorable events from the news of
the past, done in the manner of the “March of
Time,” with authentic material culled from the
files in the morgue of the local newspapers, and
later a serial dealing with the adventures of a
sprightly girl, Jane Jarrett, and her friends. The
fate of Jane was determined from week to week
by the players themselves, who, after broadcast—
ing the. current week’s episode, sat like the gods
on Olympus to plan what would happen to their
heroine next. Thus the story was a composite of
the ideas of the entire cast, written up into final
form by one of their number. The results, espe-
cially the ingenious resolution of the crisis which
was invariably introduced at the end of each epi—
sode, to provide the suspense element, were highly
diverting.

If the group is large, it is preferable to choose
diversified scripts, complete in themselves, with
fairly large casting requirements, for presentation
in successive weeks, in order to use all the mem—
bers as often as possible and to provide all the
different “types” in the company with suitable
roles. In the smaller. group, however, serials can
be used to good advantage, with the same charac-
ters appearing week after week. At all events,
there is no limit to the number of players who can
take part in radio drama. Commercial scripts may

“YOU’RE ON THE AIR!”

call for as few as two characters and as many a
fifteen, while groups writing their own plays ma)
of course tailor them to fit the exact circumstances
The production technique of radio plays is sim
ple and easily mastered. If no one in the grou
has had previous radio experience, station sta
members will gladly offer advice and suggestions
Female voices are placed close to the microphon
—-how close depends upon the type of microphon
being used—and heavier male voices are placed .
a little distance. Whispered lines are spoken wit
lips almost upon the mike, and shouting is don
several‘ yards away. While gestures are total]
superfiuous so far as the radio audiences is co
cerned, experienced radio’ actors use them .
freely as if they were on the stage; some cann
work up the proper “moodi’ without appropriat
actions. But, whatever gestures are uéed, th
players must remember always to face the micr
phone at a set distance—and never to make e 1
traneous sounds!

Technicians May Play Their Part

Transferring recreational dramatic activiti
from the stage to the broadcasting studio does 11
mean that the mechanical crew is left behind. I
stead of scenery to design, build, and erect, an
lighting cues to follow, they have the. importa
job of supplying the sound effects so essential t
producing the illusion of a stage and playe
where in reality there is only a receiving se
They must prepare, and use at the proper cue
such diversified effects as door bells, water bein
poured from a pitcher into a glass, an automobi
crash, heavy footsteps on the floor. and a pa
sionate kiss (which, in radio,,_is, more often tha
not, the sound effects man kissing his 'own wri
before a wide-Open microphone). Some of t
more difficult effects, such as those of an angr
mob, orchestra tuning up, ferryboat whistle, an
traffic noises, may be purchased on records an
“mixed in” at the proper times by the statio
control engineer. Nearly all commonly-used soun
effects have been recorded for use by amateu
groups, and are available at low prices. Most st
tions will purchase such effects for the use a
their dramatic organizations.

The radio equivalent of the stage curtain
music, which again may be provided either in t I

studio or in the control room. Unless the grou '

has a small orchestra available, an organ is t
only advisable means of producing in the studio t

(Continued on page 269)

l

  
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

 

Badminton

ADMINTON, a tradi-
B tional English game,
has become a leading
’ adult recreational activ-
. ity in Oakland, Califor-
nia. The development has
been rapid and wide-
spread over the city with
groups springing up in
widely varied neighbor-
hoods. In school audi-
toriums, in gymnasiums,
in church halls the game
is being played by all age
levels and is particularly
successful with y o u n g
married people.

The Recreation De-
partment has encouraged
and organized many of
these groups on a “pay-
‘as—you-go" basis. Reason-
ably priced rackets are
available and a small fee
is charged to cover the
'purchase of birds.

Many organizations
'wishing to see the game
before attempting to
gather a group have re—
' q u e s te d demonstrations.
To satisfy these demands
and to further the sport
we have developed a
standard exhibition program which is used as
fully as time permits. The program is designed
to give a quick introduction to technique, rules,
and play of Badminton. The standard program is:

I. Explanatory discussion, consisting of a brief
history of the game, its advantages, a description

of the playing rules, description of court, racket
and bird.

2. Technical demonstration (by two players)
consisting of a demonstration of proper footwork,
Propel“ grip on racket, and proper swing of the
racket in the various types of shot used in
Badminton.

3. Mixed doubles exhibition, used largely to
demonstrate the co-recreational possibilities of the

By HOWARD B. HOLMAN
Supervisor of Boys' Activities
Recreation Department

Oakland. California

 

This pictureI taken at the end of an over-
head smash, shows both players in good form

B.

i

game. Four players par-
ticipate with a referee in
the chair to announce
scoring and technical
points.

4. Men’s doubles exhi-
bition, used as a climax
to demonstrate the stren-
uous exercise de riv ed
from the game when pro-
perly played. Four play-
ers play as vigorously as
possible while a referee
announces point score as
in the mixed doubles.

For the information of
our demonstrators we
have compiled a bulletin
of general and technical
data on the game. This
bulletin is used to good
advantage in preparation
of the discussions and in

instruction of beginners.
Parts of it follow.

Background Infor-
mation

I. General Data

A. “The good single
player must have the
footwork of a light-
weight boxer, the

wind of a marathon runner, the quickness of

eye and hand of a man fighting a swarm of
bees with a lead pencil.”

The court—44 feet long by 20 feet wide—
has two alleys I’ 6” wide on each side—a
center line, a short service line 6’ 6” from
the net and a long service line 2’ 6” from
end line. ”

The racket—miniature tennis racket—weight
43/4 to 5%, oz.—strung with fine gauge silk
or gut.

The bird—made of a half-round cork cov—
ered with kid leather, and feathered with 16
feathers, weight 75-85 grains. (The best
feathers come from Czecho-Slovakia—from

253

2 54 , BADMINTON

the geese grown in captivity-— feathers are
oily.)
E. The play—entirely on the volley—no bounces.
F. Game may be played single or in doubles.
Encyclopedia Brittannica, “A good single
match is admittedly more strenuous than a
match at lawn tennis.”

II. History

A. Rudiments of the game are known to have.
existed in China in several games played
B. C. .

B. The beginnings of definite play—~—an un-
named Indian game. The Bristish Army
Southern Command took up the game and
named it “Poona” after the city in which
they had headquarters.

C. Introduction to \Vestern world-——1873 at the
Duke of Beauforts’ estate “Badminton” in
GloUcestershire, England. Started by a
group of army men home on leave during a
rainy week—end. Used champagne corks
and chicken feathers for bird, and tennis
rackets.

D. 1885—Game was immenser popular every-
where in England.

E. The laws of the game were codified in 1893
in London.

F. In the U. S. A. introduced in 1876. First
club. the New York Badminton Club or-
ganized in 1878. Qualification for member-
ship—only good looking young ladies were
eligible. (This is the oldest club in the
world.)

G. Pacific Coast — desultory play for fifteen
years, sudden boom in last three. N ow major
recreational activity.

Ill. Advantages and Attractions

A. The court is small. _
B. The court is easily set up and taken down.
C. The game is short—Io-I5 minutes.
D. The rackets are light, easily handled.
 Requires no particular surface.
F. Can be played in or out-of-doors.
G. The exercise can be graded.

I. More strenuous than tennis

2. May be a quiet, easy game
H. The game is co-recreational—on a par.
1. .The game is sociable-——fun at any level.

J. The game can be played at mixed levels of
ability.

III. Backhand Shots

Tactics

  
  

I. Service

A. Take position near center of court (single
especially).
B. Determine your action by opponents’ positio
C. Always strike bird as near waist as legal
to give flat parabola of iiight.
D. Five effective possibilities:
I. Short backhand—hit at top of net and t
receiver’s backhand. I
2. Short forehand—lowu—to draw receiv
‘ from center line.
3. Long backhand—high as possible—to 0
balance opponent.
4. Long forehand—high as possible——
crowd opponent away from center.
5. Smash—a hard hit shot—should be aim
close to opponent’s body.

E. For effectiveness the short shots must v
aimed just to clear the net and drop .
quickly as possible—should be hit with
loose wrist.

F. The long serve must be high and deep t
avoid a smash return. Hit with a locke
wrist and a full swing.

G. Smash service must be aimed close to o
ponents’ body to prevent smash return. Thi
should be used infrequently for maximu
effectiveness. '

H. Attempt should be made to make the back
swing and downswing of the serve exact]
the same for every type of shot to preve
anticipation by your opponent.

I. All serves should be played for corners.

ll. Forehand Shots

A. Shots should be hit at openings—always.

B. It is a good general rule—never to drive
shot diagonally across the center of the ne
(Allows opponent to gain center court.)

C. Shots should be hit deep down side line
when possible.

D. Short shots should be aimed at front corner
of court, never at center of net.

E. Try to'pull opponent off the center court.
F. Try to attain the center court after each shot

I

A. Hold shot if possible until opponent make
move. (Usual follow-up by opponent wil
be a charge toward net.)

(Continued on page 270)

l.

3 WORLD AT PLAY

' "—__——_.-_ COMMUNITY Ser-
A Commumty .

Boat Club VICE. of Boston has or-
ganized a community
boat club whose pur-

pose will be to stimulate or to encoumge rowing
nd boating on Charles River Basin. Anyone will
e eligible for membership “who has contributed
the cost of materials for one boat or who by his
abor has contributed the equivalent of the full
ork on one boat, or who owns a boat and applies
or membership—providing that each and all of
he above submit to the regulations made by the
oat club boating committee.” It is proposed to
charge dues of 10¢ a piece for each member of
frOUps of ten who come together to build and use
a boat for which materials have been supplied by

l .heir settlement house or other agencies.
r

  
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 

‘l

OKLAHOMA City,
Oklahoma, has a
School Playgrounds
Federation organized
1 the summer of 1935, whose objective is “to
aintain an organized center of thought and ac-
'on among the school playground representatives
f the city; to sponsor such activities as will tend
o raise the standard and character of the recrea-
'onal program, and to foster and increase a lively
. ublic interest therein.” In the summer of 1906
" here was a total attendance of 597,600 children
I: nd adults on the school playgrounds, as com-

1' ared with a total number of 187,463 in 1935.

‘ School Playgounds
Federation

I

THE first annual
award of the City
Club of New York to
a non-elective public
fficial for meritorious service was presented in
i lay to Park Commissioner Robert Moses. The
Eward, which will be made each year, is covered
y a special trust fund, the gift of Ralph M.
ILevey, a member of the Club. In making the
citation the Board of Trustees of the Club said,
“To you as Commissioner of the Department

of Parks we are happy to tender the first annual
award of the City Club of New York in recogni-
tion of three years of extraordinary service to the

l people of the City. . . . The vast achievements of
, these three amazing yearsw—performed in addition

onoring New York’s
Park Commissioner

 

to other public construction and administration
tasks of the first magnitude—are the projection
of your devotion, energy and brains. They con-
stitute in our judgment the major contribution of
our generation to the improvement of the condi-
tions of life in our city.” ‘

 

THE report of the
Board of Park Com-
missioners of the City
of Salem, Massachu-
setts for 1936 tells of a novel activity in baton
twirling which was initiated in 1935. Instruction
was given on each of the ten playgrounds at least
twice and sometimes three times weekly. There
was a great deal of enthusiasm among the children
for this activity and there were between thirty
and forty in attendance at the average class.

Twirling
Batons

 

CHARACTERIZED as one
of the pleasantest fea—
tures of the Constitu-
tional celebration, the
daily programs given at noon by the Police and
Firemen’s Band of Philadelphia in Independence
Square are drawing large crowds. “It ought to
be considered,” states a Philadelphia paper in an

Music in the
Square

_ editorial, “whether this mid-day musical interval

should not be made one of the permanent ameni-
ties of Philadelphia life when weather permits ”

FOLLOWING the

summer playground
program in dramatics
and dancing there was
so much interest in children’s drama on the play—
grounds of East Orange that a Saturday morning
children’s theater was started. Two plays were
given last fall to a full house of parents and
friends. An -admissi0n charge of IO cents was
made to cover the cost of the costume material.
The plays combined drama, dancing and singing,
thus using talent from the various dancing classes
for children of all ages held each winter at the
Elmwood Park field house. The beautiful cos-
tumes used were made at the field house by a
VVPA sewing instructor and by children and

adults attending the sewing classes.
The Little Theater Sponsored by the'Board of

255

Drama in East Orange,
New Jersey

256 WORLD AT PLAY

Reliable Shufflebocxrd Equipment
$6.00 - $8.00 - $|0.00 - $|5.00 Sets

10 cents brings plan Standard Court

Old Ring Toss Game. 50c - 75c - $|.00
DAYTONA BEACH SHUFFLEBOARD CO.

Dept. F PHILMONT, N. Y.

Recreation Commissioners was organized early in
1936 following a drama institute conducted by
the Board. The present group consists of seventy;
live enrolled members, men and women interested
in some phase of Little Theater activity—acting,
stage management, workshop programs and
classes. It has attracted some of the outstanding
talent of East Orange and surrounding communi-
ties, and a number of Broadway successes have
been presented. The group, though sponsored by
the Recreation Department, is self-governing and
partially self-supporting, the Little Theater di-
rector being supplied the Recreation Department
through the W'PA Recreation Division. By a pro-
vision of the Little Theater constitution and by-
laws, the secretary of the Recreation Commission
and the director of recreation serve as members of
its Board of Directors, the secretary serving as
treasurer of the group. During the past year the
director of recreation has served as president.

Dancing in Mt. Vernon—Dances are con-
ducted weekly by the Recreation Commission of
Mt. Vernon, New York, which issues season
membership tickets for which no charge is made.
In addition to modern dancing, the Commission
since 1931 has conducted evenings of old-fash-
ioned dances. A special night of the week is set
aside for colored citizens.

Using Available Facilities—Faced with the
necessity for increasing facilities to provide em-
ployment for the WPA and NYA workers as-
signed to the Salt Lake City, Utah, City Recrea-
tion Department, the department has made a suc-
cessful community center of a summer playground
lield house equipped with a stove. Two small
stores have been rented and a successful nursery
school is being conducted in one, a handcraft cen-
ter in the other. The department is sponsoring
recreation activities in the Y . W. C. A. building
and the neighborhood house.

Our National Resources—In the wise utiliza-

 

   
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
    

tion of our national resources there is a field for
advance study and research of increasing signifi-
cance. The American University Graduate School,
W'ashington, D. C., has formulated its program in
such a way as to emphasize the essential unity of
the resources problem. It thus will serve also
those who, being specialists in some one aspec
such as forestry, wish to see the resources prob-
lem as a whole. Advanced courses in special topic
will be offered for those who wish to take advan
tage of the presence in Washington of a numbe
of outstanding specialists in their particular liel
The courses are open to graduates of forestry, e1
gineering and agricultural colleges. All inquiri
and applications for admission ‘should be direct
to the Registrar of the Graduate School, tl
American University, 1901 F Street, 1Washin

ton, D. C.

A New Year-Round City — \Vyandott
Michigan, has been added to the list of Michiga
cities with year-round recreation programs unde
full time leadership. Under the sponsorship of
city recreation commission and with a six tho
sand dollar budget appropriated by the City Cou1
cil, Benjamin Yack, Superintendent of Recre
tion has initiated a program of activities.

A “Supreme Court” for Basketball—The D
partment of Recreation of Akron, Ohio, has or
ganized a “supreme court” of five members wh
are elected by managers of teams in the amateu1
basketball league of the city to pass on matters
which cannot be settled by the respective leagu
presidents.

Important Events in Pontiac, Michigan—
Red letter events in Pontiac, Michigan, were the
donation by the Kiwanis Club of two wadin,D
pools and the establishment by the Club of a live-
year program including a $500 a year gift to the
playground. Under the City Engineer the ‘W PA
has constructed ten tennis courts and the Federal
government has furnished leadership costing
$15,909.82, enabling the recreation prOgram to be
greatly enlarged.' The factories are taking greater
interest in recreation for their employees and with
the help of the Recreation Department have or-'
ganized athletic and Sport leagues. All available
gymnasia will be used every night in the week
during the winter. Overcrowding may'necessitate '
use‘of school buildings, the building of a com- }
munity center or a Y. M. C. A.

l

 

J,
l

  
 
 
  
 
 
     
    

‘ ..

c
.Q

s‘:

   

    
  
 
  

‘ Serving Institutions—For a number of years
i’ he Junior League of Reading, Pennsylvania, has
iaintained in cooperation with the School Dis-
rict and the Municipal Recreation Department
the Tyson-Schoener Recreation Center. In addi-
tion the League pays for the salary of a worker
'n the recreation department to visit institutions
romoting play activities. There are now nine in-
titutions being visited by this worker. Recently
he Junior League sponsored a horse show to
aise money for its recreational activities.

A Memorial Park—In his will Arthur \Vil-
iams, retired vice-president of the New York
dison Company, who died in April, suggested
hat a part of his estate at Roslyn Harbor includ-
ng the carillon tower and the pond be set aside
5 a memorial park.

L Increasing a Recreation Budget—The bud-
get for public recreation in Dearborn, Michigan,

“for the coming year will be $49,979 as against

I

aintl' 237

QUALITY B
Ht £qw25t ptt'cej

O WOOD BEAD CRAFT
PORCELAIN TILE CRAFT
CUBE BEAD CRAFT

 

cords and instruction . bookletsl,

BEIID COMPANY

Dept W5 37 w. 37th St.,N.Y. c.

$32,085 for the year just closing. This provides
for salary increases of the executive and import-
ant personnel in the playground and community
center division of the local department. In addi-
tion a woman assistant will be employed for the
first time to direct activities for girls and women.

A Bond Issue Approved—The voters of
Houston, Texas, approved on April 5th the issu-
ing of bonds including $200,000 for parks and
$50,000 for swimming pools.

Cincinnati’s Radio City—Some time ago an
old gymnasium building was moved to the C. & O.
grounds in Cincinnati and reconstructed. A num-
ber of election booths have been added to serve
as a branch library, toy lending library, storeroom
and play leader’s office. A school colony building
has been converted into a branch of the natural
history museum, and now Radio City, so-called,
has sprung up centering around a curious struc-
ture made by putting together three booths and
opening one into the other. Radio City has be-

 IVew patented   

s 
o “a. r
a
190-. ‘3.
“m  I

Send For descriptive literature, sample:

258 i ' WORLD AT PLAY

\ ggs1jHE
AT‘oN

Every day, in spring, sum-

mer and fall, thousands of young peo-
ple use the athletic field, the tennis court, the track,
the baseball diamond, the indoor cage, for the kind
of play that is intended to produce strong muscles
and sturdy frames.

. “limp”,
’1

The perplexing question that is constantly before
the athletic instructor is “how shall we treat these

play areas to produce clean, healthy, compact, dUSt-
less, natural surfaces.”

The Solvay Calcium Chloride treatment is the
answer. It binds the surface through its compact-
ing action and prevents surface cracking and weed-
growth—does away with dust entirely—reduces
the danger of infection —cuts sunglare to a mini-
mum—~—all at a cost so low that it can be fitted
without strain into today’s reduced budgets.

Solvay Calcium Chloride has for many years been
used by leading schools, universities and athletic as-
sociations. It is a clean, odorless, and harmless
material that may be applied either by hand or
spreader just as it comes from the package (in
small white flakes). It does not affect tennis balls or

other equipment. Complete information will be sent
:upon request.

S 0 LVAY

TRADE MARK REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.

Calcium Chloride
SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

Alkahes and Chemical Products Manufactured by
' The Solvay Process Company

40 Rector Street

 

New York

 

 

  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
    
 
   
   
 
    
  
 
   
   
     

come the manufacturing center for miniature I
effective radio sets. It is the hobby shop of

C. & O. grounds.

Community Street Dances—Last sum
the Akron, Ohio, Recreation Department inau
rated community street dances, nine of w
were held during July and August with an atte
ance of 2,500. Certain streets were blocked
from traffic. Corn meal was sprinkled over
pavement and the asphalt street surfacing ser
as a temporary dance floor. Colored lights, str
overhead, lent an atmosphere of gaiety.
WPA dance orchestra furnished music for I
of the dances. "ii-“These gay summer evenin
states the annual .Zreport of the Department, “
vided inexpensive entertvainment—sinCepo ad
sion was charggdw—for' persons of alleges. T
signify the. returil of family group. entetrfafl'
withthe same" spirit of fun afforded by_,the p
dances and corn huskings of old.” So succe-
did the dances prove that this year ,rmore'are
ing held. The Recreation Department has ad
to its equipment a. trailer for transporting ch
lights andepthéfr equipment to various parts
the city. 3’

Park Areas in Roanoke;—K. Mark C0“
Superintendent of Recigeation, Roanoke, Virgi
reports that  January the Freeholders of
city voted a bond issue of $48,000 for the ac ‘
sition of three new tracts of land for park p
poses. These tracts contain a total of 34.71 ac 'i
bringing the total park acreage upto 291.8 ac
Two of the tracts, all of which are extremely
sifable, are additions to the city’s present pa
The third is in a section of the city not at pres
served by a playground. The fact that it is 10
ed next to the junior high school building ma
it a particularly important addition to the ci
recreation facilities.

(

Tapping the Reserves of Power ,
(Continued from page 214) '

creative power in men is to stir the imaginat'
to accept the responsibilities of life with a se
of adventure, to harness the resources of natilr
for the benefit of man, to develop the spiritual i’
sources, to eliminate the dangers of boredom. .

Directions for activities are always accessible
directions for understanding, information as'Z‘t
what constitutes education, is difficult to fill
.
C

 

safe climbing apparatus . . .

l durability and economy.

Ever Wear

Manufacturing Company
SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

   
    
     
   
   

EVERWEAR also manufactures a complete line of
! beach and pool equipment. If you wish to have

| this catalog, mark coupon.

There are, however, guides in our creative dark-
Ness—a Marietta .Johnson down in Fairhope,
hlabama; a Mearnes and a Coleman writing and
Experimenting and discovering among the children
t Columbia, a Kimball out in California. These
have facts, living adventures to show the Way.
Eventually their leadership will be utilized in the
training of directors of recreation.

' Perhaps the recreation leaders themselves may
find their own resources and develop a spiritual
trength which will carry over into a new held of
latisfactions and success in the development of in—
tbgrated, whole, creative personalities in the chil-
dren and the adults with whom they come in

,contact.

i The Recreation Executives Conler

(Continued from .page 228)

F. S. Mathewsbn, Union County, N. J.
Arthur T. Noren, Elizabeth, N. J.

A. 0. Anderson, St. Louis, Mo.
Josephine Randall, San Francisco, Calif.
Ernest Johnson, St. Paul, Minn.

J. J. Syme, Ontario, Canada

Tam Deering, Cincinnati, Ohio

Nash Higgins, Tampa, Florida

C. R. Wood, Durham, N. C.

I
l
1

THE RECRE-~1TION EXECUTIVES CONFER 259 .

 

Get this Catalog of .
Safety Playground Equipment

EVERWEAR complete selection of Playground apparatus offers you

something more than durability and playability. It guarantees
SAFETY in every piece of equipment.

The 1937 EVERWEAR catalog describes the new safety swings—
rubber encased—which take the injury element out of swings . .
and exclusive features on merry-go-rounds, slides and ladders
that make for safety. There is a reason why EVERWEAR playground equipment is found
on finest playgrounds everywhere. It is the equipment you can depend on for safety,

. it includes a really

Send for your copy of this catalog TODAY and see how EVERWEAR can fill your play-

ground needs. There is no charge. Just fill in and mail the coupon below.

r—_—_——a_——I———————_—_

EVERWEAR MANUFACTURING COMPANY

Springfield, Ohio (R)
Please send me the FREE catalog of EVERWEA'R

playground equipment.

| ( ) I am also interested in beach and pool
I apparatus.

: ......................................  ....................................... ..
E n o n a a n n n a u n a n a a n n a u n n a n n n a a u g n n a a n a u not-AIa-ai:elnsoosoc) a a a a n n a n g a u u a a n u a a n u u n u u u n u a n a o n n . . - - .-
! .........  ....................................................  ..... ..

    
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   

  

If You Are Concerned
With-s Plaggruunds~

0 Are you going to be a playground director
this, summer? Are you a member of a
board in charge of a recreation program?
Or are you a public-spirited citizen inter-
ested in seeing that your community has
an adequate playground system?

0 Whatever your association with play-
grounds, you will want to know of the
book, “Playgrounds — Their Administra-
tion and Operation,” by George D. Butler,
which has 402 pages of practical informa-
tion on the operation of playgrounds. It
is the only book devoted exclusively to this
subject, and the playground worker and
official will find it invaluable.

. . . Price $3.00

I

National Recreation Asssociation
3|5 Foui-ih Avenue New York City

   

260 MARIONETTES ON WHEELS I

 

I am introducing

STORY PARADE

A magazine for boys and girls
from 7 to 12

O STORIES

o VERSE

0 MUSIC

0 PICTURES
O PLAYS

0 REVIEWS

“I have found no material so excellently
adapted to meet the needs of present
day activities in the field of education
and recreation as that found in your

9,

very unique magazine. . . .

—-MAnTHA B. ARCHER,
Pasadena Department of Recreation.

Subscriptions $1.50 in the United States
Canada $1.60; Foreign $1.75

Single copies 15 cents

SPECIAL OFFER . . . $2.50
STORY PARADE BOOK and one subscription

STORY PARADE

70 Fifth Avenue New York. N. Y.

. himself the famous marionette of Ammon Ra.

V. K. Brown was selected as chairman of thi
organization committee; Arthur T. Noren al

secretary.

l

Marionettes on Wheels ‘ l
( C ontinned from page 231)

been a lovely creature, for the people of Ind
have been making puppets ever since. The fa
of their puppets spread to Persia, Turkey, Chin
Burma, Siam and Java, where they were develo
ed as shadow figures—flat, exquisitely cut pu
pets placed between a lamp and sheet so the aud
ence could watch the shadow of the puppet.

Another type was worked on rods from belo
another on the hand like the Punch and Ju
figures, still others by wires from above, and
China and Japan they even had puppeteers dre
ed in black carry on the. stage beautifully co
tumed puppets that were manipulated in full vie
of the audience.

It was in Japan that puppets were first used
entertain the gods in the temples,and it was pro
ably this practise that has made the Japanese mo
expert than any other people in making them.
Greece, too, the puppets were very popular, and
is not surprising that“ the Romans followed t
Grecian art. Roman emperors even made plac
for them in their palaces, and in the tomb
Empress Marie, wife of the'Emperor Honori
who lived in 365 B. C., were found puppets
her little child. It was thirty-three years later th
Alexander the Great visited Egypt to see f

  
  
    
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
     
  
    
 
 
  
   
  

After Rome fell, early Christians adopted pu
pets to picture the story of Christ, especially t
Nativity. This custom that began nearly 2
years ago can still be seen in the manger displ
in Catholic churches at Christmas, and the lit
figures that now are lifeless once were animate
It was from the puppet representation of the Vi
gin Mary ‘that the name “marionette,” or “Lit
Mary,” was derived.

When the puppets became too irreligious, th
were banished from the church but not from po
ularity, and they thrived in the churchyard, th
the village square, and finally in their own litt
theaters where, shortly after, Mr. Punch and 11
wife, Judy, were born.

When the. Pilgrims came in the Mayflower, th
brought puppetry with them, but there are stori
that even they found a crude conception of t
art being practised by the Indians. The pupp

f}

A CRUISE PAINT 261

and it was not until recent years that a Renais-

l

sance of puppetry was started that has resulted in

an exceedingly popular and important form of

entertainment and education.

A Cruise Party

(Continued from page 234)

l (Rope for fastening a boat)

. and the pussy cat? (Pea green)

9. “Rub-a-dub dub—men in a tub.” How many

were there in the tub? (Three)
10. By land time, what time is eight bells? ,
(Four, eight or twelve o’clock)

Court Marshal. “Of course,” said the Captain,
“you may have passed the test, but no one can go

ashore who has broken a rule and not worked out

his sentence.” He then called the names of the
nes found guilty at the boat drill and ordered
ach in turn to do a stunt which he named. Some
f the sentences were: Imitate a man putting on
.- life belt, sing a nautical song, show a sailor
131111ng the pumps, imitate a man in a severe
torm and do a sailor’s hornpipe.

. Lite on the Ocean Wave. The Captain next
cted as caller for “Life on the Ocean W'ave,” a
Square dance. Music, calls, and directions are in
art-z'es—Plans and Programs, published by the
hilational Recreation Association (Price, fifty
nts). They might have used any square dance.

. Refreshments. By this time everyone was starv—
u and a steward went through the room with a
-3 ner gong (xylophone type) calling out “first
'11 for First table!" The rule was “women and
,1ildren first” and all men were detailed to seat
heir partners at tables set up quickly in the gym.
Stewards brought noise makers, confetti and ser—
.entine and the Captain gave a toast to the pas-
ngers inviting them to enjoy themselves at the
‘Captain’s Dinner.” Sandwiches, doughnuts and
dice were served ahd no one found the sea too
ough to enoy them.

I Sea Chanteys. During and after the dinner the
group sang all the sea songs they could remember
'i—Ancltors, Atcreigl-z, Barnacle Bill, the Saz'lar,
:Sa'iling, Rate", Row, Row Yonr Boat, A Capitol
Ship and Santa Lucia. They learned two simple
Sea chanteys, Cape Cod Clzantey (In Songs for In-
formal Singing published by the National Recrea—
.ion Association, price, ten cents) and Blow the

Man Down. (In a number of collections of well-
Known songs).

r,

t

7. What is a “painter” in nautical terminology?

8. \Vhat color was the boat used by the owl

EAGLE

RINCER
(Patented)

 

A Health-Building Game
For Old and Young

Pitching Horseshoes is muscle-building rec-

reation that appeals to all types of people.
Install a few courts on your grounds. organ-

ize a horseshoe club, schedule a tournament.
Write for free booklets on club organiza-
tion, tournament play. etc.

Diamond Official Shoes and accessories
are the choice of professionals and ama-
teurs alike. It’s economy to purchase
equipment with the longest life.

DIAMOND

CALK Honsnsuon 00'.
46l0 Grand Avenue Duluth, Minn.

Makers of D I A MO N I) Official Pitching Shoes

 

Disombarking. The Captain made a farewell
speech to the passengers and invited them to sing
Auld Lang Syne before they landed. Then with a
hint to leave their stateroom keys with the purser,
the officers lined up to bid the passengers good-
bye as they went down the gangplank.

"We Have a Circus"

./ Continued from page 236)

clowns come to the hre add to the humor and ex-
citement. Such a hre act is traditional in almost
all circuses.

A Blind-Fold Boxing Bout ora Barrel Boxing Match
with the clowns mounted on barrels will be enter-

taining.

Target Shooting. Two clowns proceed to hold
shooting practice, one clown using a popgun or
cap pistol to shoot at crackers held by the other.
As the gun is shot the cracker is pinched in such
a manner that it breaks and falls to the floor. The
clown with the gun shoots from all sorts of posi-
tions and angles—from the shoulder, from the
hip, backward over the head, back through the

262 RECREATION ON A MUNICIPAL LAKE

Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual
(1937 Edition. Vol. V)

$3.00 Prepaid

0 I92 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested
in swimming pools in any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
404 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders. etc.I

payable to Earl K. Collins

legs and from a reclining position. The clown
with the cracker may hold it in his hand, in his
teeth, over his head and in a number of other
positions. As an ending a third clown may award
a medal.

Fire! Three clowns, two candles, a small frying
pan, hot dogs, matches, one small pail of water
and one large pail of confetti are needed for this
act. One clown enters and saunters about the
ring until the attention of the audience is centered
on him. Then he seats himself, lights a candle
and begins frying his hot dogs over it. The other
two clowns enter and move around the ring bow—
ing and waving as they go until one notes the
burning candle and cries “Fire!” Both clowns
run off to bring the small pail of water to drown
the fire. The first clown does not notice them,
being busy with his frying and with the audience
nearby, until the water is thrown. He chases the
two clowns off and finds another place and lights
his second candle and proceeds as before. The
two clowns enter and repeat their antics, but this
time they throw the confetti over the clown and
swish it over the audience too. (The clown should
seat himself the second time near some ladies in
the audience so their screams when the confetti is
thrown will add to the act.)

 

   
  
  
  
   
   
    
  
  
  
 
    
  
    
  
 
    
   
   
  

Individual Clown Acts. There are a number 0
stunts which can be worked up for individua
clowns. Here are a few of them.

A tramp clown with his blanket roll sets u
housekeeping by the ring side.

A clown has a wash tub suspended from hi
neck. He walks about washing clothes and inter
esting other clowns in getting their laundry don
A clothesline may be strung between two ligh
poles extending from the tub up over the clown’

head.
A clown may encircle the ring loaded wit

bundles of all sizes and shapes which he continu
ally drops. ‘ '

A clown leads a very small dog by a huge pap
chain; The dog is labeled “Dangerous.”

A clown dressed as a policeman pursues an

arrests other clowns.
A clown on stilts can dance and run and jum

or stagger about pretending not to know how t

use stilts well.
There may be a Charlie Chaplin clown wh

stumbles over his large feet and cane.

.

Recreation on a Municipal Lake
(Continued from page 239)

D. All coxswains and supervisors will be r
sponsible for keeping the crews quiet s
all will be able to hear the commands o
the official starter.

E. The official starter will use the three poi

command for all races
That is: Get on Your Mark! Get Set! Ca

V. Entries ..

A. Crew entries stating the number of crew
and the classification in which the crew
are to race will be due in the office of th
Recreation Department, not later than. . .

B. Each crew may enter one race only.

Vl. Drawing for Boats

A. Drawing.for boats and lanes in each rac
will be held at 3 :30 RM. 0n the day for th
regatta at the Municipal Boat House of
fice. The coxswain of each crew will dra
for the lane and boat for his crew.

VII. General Information for Crews

A. Crews will organize in crew order ju
outside the boat house before filing on th
floats.

B. Crews will be judged for the assemblin
and embarking event as soon as the
march on the floats.

C. Crews will watch the regatta from th
shoreline of the lake.

D. Any member of a crew coming onto t

 

barking events.

B. Each playground supervisor will check on
the oars for his crews several days before
the regatta. If any question arises see Mr.

Garver at the Municipal Boat House.

F. In order that the races may start early
enough to dismiss before dark, permission
has been granted students participating in

the races to leave school at 2 :45 P. M.

,I I. Officials and Judges

I A. Chairman of the regatta
B. Float official
C. Referee
. . D. Official starter
:' E. Head judge
F. Judges for assembling and embarking
c. Judges for races—lst place
2nd place
3rd place

  
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
     
   
 
   
  
    
   
   

he crew season for high school girls continues
.' ughout the school year, each school conclud—
the season with an inter—class race followed
a picnic and “weinie” roast at the Canoe
lse. Practicing twice each week, these groups
age one hundred in number and require eight

boats and ninety-six oars, the latter being
ed, in most instances, by the school.

New Outdoor Theaters
(Continued from page 240)

0
li city of about 2,500, and portable seats or
hes will be provided for special performances.
all hemlocks and large dogwoods (transplant-
1 ‘I WPA workmen from other sections of
k orius Park) with underplanting of laurel and
2" dodendrons, form a dense screen and enclos—
for the theater on either side. Nearby an ar-
al lake is being constrUCted for improvement
e landscape and to provide ice skating. Ad-
nal improvements are under consideration.
he project called for an expenditure 'of
010, of which the sponsor provided $2,275.
f , however, included considerable grading and

splanting beyond the area occupied by the
er.

.0

i
I

‘l
t

Hobbies and Homes

8 f C antinncd from page 242)

.humanity or not, it is sure to make great con-
iblutions to its rider. No hobbyist ever finds
ne hanging heavy on his hands. Some may be

fioats during the regatta, except when
called for, will disqualify his crew from
participating in the assembling and em-

NEW OUTDOOR THEATERS 263

  
 

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 2
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

    

MAGAZINES

Parents’ Magazine, June 1937
Summer Symposium
(Report of successful cooperative vacation
projects) '
Outdoors for a New Hobby, by Eleanor Preston
Clarkson

The Garden Grows with Children, by Gerald K.
Geerlings
Family Fun, by Elizabeth King

Parks and Recreation, May 1937

Demonstration Parks in the Tennessee Valley, by
Earle S. Draper

Rural Recreation Centers Adjuncts of Kansas Dam
Projects

Woodland Hills Park Adds to Cleveland’s Facilities

Community Center Dedicated at Lafayette, La.

Toledo’s Recreational Progress, by Ernie Curley, Jr.

Recreation Association Reports on Municipal Rec—
reation Progress

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, June 1937
Leisure Education and Recreation, by N. L.
Engelhardt

The German Youth Movement, by Adelaide H. Miller

Swimming and Lifesaving Program for Summer
Camps, by John A. Torney, Jr.

Archery, Ideal Activity, by Paul H. Gordon

Motion Picture Sports for Women

The Research Quarterly of the American Physical Edu-
cation Association, May 1937

Standards in Athletics for Girls and Women

An Achievement Scale in Archery, by Edith I. Hyde

Achievement Tests in Volleyball for High School
Girls, by .Esther L. French and Bernice 1. Cooper

Esquire, July 1937
Not So Soft Ball, by Leo Fischer

Hygeia, July 1937
Tennis for Any Age, by Dudley B. Reed
Off to Camp, by Regina J. Woody

Parks and Recreation, June 1937

Municipal Parks in the United States
A W'orkshop for Dramatics, by John M. Hurley
A Hiking Trip’s Bureau t

Leisure, June 1937
Summer Camps for the Teen Age, by Bertha R.
Parker
Hike for Health '
The Game of Nests, by Virginia Snider Eifert
Ladies! Have a Hobby! by Vivian Starr
Shuffieboard as a Table Game, by Alice Allene Sefton

Child Life, July 1937
Child Life Hobby Club—Modeling, puppetry, etc.

National Parent-Teacher, May 1937

For the Love of Music, by Jascha Heifetz
In Our Neighborhood—Helen Doesn’t Play Alone,

by Alice Sowers

National Parent-Teacher, June 1937

Europe Challenges American Parents, by Dorothy L.
McFadden

PAMPH LETS

First Annual Report of the Akron, Ohio, Department of
Recreation, 1936-1937

Play All Summer!
Recreation Opportunities in Yonkers, N. Y., W'elfare
Federation of Yonkers

264 i A TRIBUTE TO CHARLES HA YDEN

A Tribute to Charles Hayden

N APRIL there was unveiled in Central Park,
I New York City. a tablet in memory of Charles
Hayden, a member of the Board of Directors of
the National Recreation Association, who at his
death left a large sum of money for the establish-
ment of the Charles Hayden Foundation. On the

occasion of the unveiling of the tablet, Mr. Hay-
den’s brother,  Willard Hayden of Boston, said:

Surroundings such as we view here today——
trees and all manner of growing things—have for-
ever been an inspiration to man. It is good to live
close to them and reverently regard Nature’s
handiwork. Man may invent a machine, he may
compose a wonderful symphony, he may accumu-
late a very large fortune, he may write a beauti-
ful poem or paint a lovely picture, yet only God
can make a tree. \Ve see its leaves unfold year by
year, its branches stretch nearer and nearer to—
ward Heaven. It is altogether appropriate that an
occasion such as this should remind us once more
of the miracles taking place about us. To this
galaxy we now add this maple sapling confident
that it will grow into a wide spreading tree. “An
emblem,” as V'Vashington lrving has written, ‘_‘of
what a true nobleman should be; a refuge of the
weak a shelter for the oppressed—a defense for
the defenseless; warding off from them the pelt-
ings of the storm, or the scorching rays of arbi—
trary power.”

 

So this place gains an added attraction and we
know that many will gather and enjoy some fru1t-
ful result of its planting.

I regard it as a particular honor to be present
to witness this evidence of esteem and thought-
fulness which has'actuated your committee in
placing this tree in memory of my brother. The
work which you have done in making this park
the lovely place it has become, your constant ef-
forts to improve it, have made your city in no
small degree a better place in which to live. 1 am
proud of the fact that my brother has made these
efforts in some degree possible.

Your act also calls for expression of thoughts
which today are almost forgotten sentiments. It
is htting that you do honor to the spontaneity of
action that characterizes gifts in aid of this laud-
able enterprise: It is better, it seems to me, that
the individual should be prompted by the desire
to improve the lot of his fellow men, the lot of
those less fortunately situated, rather than that
these acts should be left to expediency and wrung
from a more or less unfeeling and indifferent gov-
ernment. What one does for the love of doing,
gives for the love of giving, is bound to be more
productive of lasting fruition. Barriers should
not be imposed that tend to discourage this
thoughtful benevolence.

.They are never the “empty barrels,” an emin

   
 
   
  
   
   
     
 
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
 
 

As I now unveil and reveal this plaque pla
here in memory of my brother, I express to y

and your organization my profound gratitude I
this mark of appreciation of the man who was
near to my heart and whom you thus honor.

bores to their friends but never to themselv

English educator called those people who have
go to commercial entertainments, or worse,
have their leisure filled. The collector and crea
have something waiting for every unemplo
minutem—never lonely, never bored.

This hobby interest then is a protection, a
lease from the .routines or worries of life, an i
po-rtant one, the professors of mental hygiene
us. They also tell us of another mental he
value to hobbies—one that comes from achie
ments, the pride in having the best collection
coins or the cleverest example of block printin

In his delightful book “A Guide to Civili
Loafing,” Overstreet sums up some of the val
of a hobby in crafts by saying, “This is wha
means to handle materials. We yield ourselves
them; they give us back our reward. It is a '
thing that so much of this has gone out of mod
life. We have learned to press buttons and s
checks—and presto, we have what we wish. '
excellent as are many of the commodities t
come to us, and difficult as our life would be i
we could not thus easily secure them, there L
mains the need to keep ourselves intimately ll
sociated with materials. We need to handle ea
to handle wood and stone.” And he goes on
say, “There is doubtless no more character-for
ing occupation than to work affectionately w
materials. Disciplines come—self—control, p
ence, the power to hold an objective steadily
view, respect for that with which one is worki
concentration, skill. These are the admirable qu
ties that are needed in a society, but they are a
the qualities that give the greatest happiness
the individual.” And Overstreet concludes, “
undisciplined, uncontrolled, impatient soul, c
temptuous of ends and incapable of bold
steadily to a purpose, is the continuously unha
one. On the other hand, he who achieves mast
in the handling of resistant material is on t.‘

way to the conquest of life.”
The thing that is sometimes hard for pare
':

and teachers to, realize is that so many of
we want for our children may come to them \

l

l

values in physical, mental and moral health t

4
u
I



‘ghsciously through activities that are fun or play.
{'lle poet, Masefield, says, “The hours that make
ahappy make us wise.” Hobbies are one of the
giving channels of life which may start as a
y spring of interest gained by the child from

" mple or exposure, grow to a swift current of
lthy interest and skill during youth, and be-

’16 a broad lake, deep with meaning and self-

ression for age. And all may be found in one
utiful sheltered valley—the home.
l

  
 
   
  
  
   
  
    
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
       
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
 

Handicraft and Recreation

‘0 ( C ontinucd from page 244)
'.- of the whole problem in which the readers,
ting followed the theoretical first part, will cer-
nly be most interested—the practical side. I
Handicraft as the cultural “self-doing” princi-
—-—the phase in which I have wished to intro-
ce it here to those interested in problems of
reation—has, of course, a widespread use to-
aside from the forms mentioned in the intro-
ction. Our sports and play, even amateur musi-
, dramatics, and other “diversions” that are
_« ticed more and more today to fill up unused
"' or “to do something useful for the home,”
ain the principle of handicraft. In fact, there
whole sphere of handicraft activity today.
i' practical problem, however, is how this may
1' rranged in a serious manner to have a truly
 apeutic effect that would be more systematic
. the present setiup.
u oncerning this therapeutical effect, however,
. often true that the most simple activities have
uch greater effect than those which are arti-
l and highly impressive, or require great ef-
Simple needlework, woodcarving or music
. more effective from a therapeutical point of
than the great expenditure of effort in sport
lay. In fact, the more interesting, more en-
l aining, or more impressive activities often ex-
11 almost negative effect. The pleasing and
l sing factor should, of course,‘ always be taken
(3 consideration in all handicraft education,
frcially in its therapeutical and recreational
l , because it has in itself a great therapeutical
be. But on the whole, this recreational handi-
ft must be based on principles which are di-
ted by the therapeutical viewpoint. All other
wpoints are of secondary importance. All
.man measures, especially if they are those that

1'11 reconstruct, rebuild and heal, must be ac-
mplished with a deeply conscious and experi-

  

lb

3

 

H A NDI C RAF T AND RECREATION 265

 

W by Not A R/oyt/am Band
on Your Playground?

 

 

0 There is now available a booklet,
“Starting and Developing a
Rhythm Band,” by A. D. Zanzig
which will give you just the in-
formation you need in organizing
“Kinder Simfonies” on your
playground. '

Send for your copy
It costs only 15 cents

V

National

Recreation Association

3|5 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

 

enced background. Accordingly, we need such a
clearly-worked out handicraft-recreation therapy
if we hope to wage a successful fight against the
factors which are undermining the healthy life of
our culture and civilization.

Where Night is Turned Into Day

(Continued from page 245)
athletic fields during the football season and the

'playgrounds would use them the rest of the time.

The saving that resulted made it possible to light
three grounds instead of one, and that old bogey
i‘dUplication” suffered a terrific setback!

Money for the fourth ground was obtained in
much the same way as were funds for the others,
the only exception being that a newly formed
neighborhood club played a larger role in creating
neighborhood enthusiasm. In this instance, labor
for installing the lights was furnished by the Il-
linois Power and Light Company.

The fifth ground was lighted by the Junior As-
sociation of Commerce. This group of young men
held a “Light a Playground” dance which was
widely publicized. All the proceeds went into the
lighting project.

266 AMONG OUR FOLKS

Among Our Folks

GEORGE SPERBECK has become Superintendent
of Parks and Playgrounds of the city of

Alameda, California, taking the place of A. C.
Benton who formerly served as Coordinating Di-
rector of Physical Education and Recreation.

James J. Tunney is now Director of Recreation
in Alhambra, California.

Chico, California, has been added to the cities
conducting a year-round recreation program.
Ralph E. Hensley is Superintendent of the Rec-
reation Department. q

A number of changes in recreation executives
have been reported from Florida cities. R. O.
Eberling is Director of Public Recreation at Day-
tona Beach, having taken the place of Raymond
Clancey. Mrs. C. G. Merrick has become the Di-
rector of Recreation at Fort Myers. Arthur C.
Black is now Executive Secretary, Recreation
Commission, West Palm Beach.

The position of Superintendent of Parks and
Playgrounds has recently been created in Atlanta,
Georgia, and George I. Simons has been appointed
to the position.

Weldon B. \Vade has become Director of Rec-
reation in Sycamore, Illinois.

Harold L. Brigham is Superintendent of Rec-
reation in Louisville, Kentucky—a position for-

merly held by W’alter R. H. Sherman. a

The new director of Recreation and Physical

Education in Ypsilanti, Michigan, is James \V.
Shaffer.

The position of Director of Recreation and
physical Education in Montclair, New Jersey, for-
merly occupied by Franklin G. Armstrong has
been taken by Arthur J. Garthwaite.

Peter J. Mayers is serving as Superintendent of
Recreation in the Department of Public Welfare,
New Rochelle, New York.

Thomas Clark has become Director of Recrea-
tion in North Tarrytown, New York.

The successorlto the late J.  McCaffrey,

Superintendent of Recreation in Providence, '

Rhode Island, is H. J. Bishop. ,

Under an agreement between the Dayton, Ohio,
Department of Public \Velfare, Bureau of Rec-
reation and the National Recreation Association,
Robert K. Murray is serving for a period of

months as full time recreation executive for
Dayton.

   
    
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 

In one or two cases the' City Council of
Parent-Teacher Associations came to the r
in helping to provide lights. Once a neighbor
club needed a few dollars to complete its lig
program and made a door-to-door canvass
funds. At another time service clubs helped
cially. The labor for the fifth ground to be li
was furnished by Postal Telegraph Company
ployees who gave freely of their time after I
lar working'hours.

During the summer in which four addit
playgrounds were lighted attendance jumped
approximately 100,000 to over one half mi
A huge program of industrial softball, com
with the opportunity to participate in other 8
such as volley ball, paddle tennis, horseshoes
the like, created new playground traffic pro
It was amazing to see how areas that were
fairly well attended before artificial lights
into the picture, swarmed with people after
installation.

For those readers who are “maintenance-
ed,” it will be interesting to know that light“
present being supplied by a public utili
special rates. Owing to the fact that the gr
were not located near city power lines that
carry the load and because the cost of conn
with distant city lines would have been pr
tive, it was necessary (if more than one g
were to be lighted) to use private power. I
ever, it is planned to put at least one ground
on city power each,year until all have be
set up.

This year two more grounds are being lig
That there was'a need to light areas for
than the reason already mentioned is best de
strated by the captain of police who said, “
lights have been installed the number of
police calls in those neighborhoods has been «
half.” To justify further the need for 1i
areas, spot maps of the section of the city
lighted have been prepared. These maps 5110
number of young people in the area now i
form schools, the number of arrests of boy
girls under twenty-five years 'of age, the nu
of potential delinquents, and the number of
lem children from_ schools adjoining the area

Not only are the lights used for softb
sport rapidly growing in popularity, but they ’
also made it possible to conduct weekly folk (
festivals on playgrounds during the summe a
nings. Perhaps the most interesting of the '3
munity’s events is this weekly outdoor oc .

as
I
l

  
    
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
    
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  

' hen hundreds of children from all parts of the
i' ty dance for an hour beneath the man-made sun.
‘ uring the fall months football and soccer teams
n be seen playing at night, and when weather
rmits the areas are flooded and used at night as

ell as day for ice skating.

l
I

Artificial lighting has now become an institu-
n in this city, with each neighborhood doing its
st to see not only that its facilities are developed
t that they are used. The lighting of outdoor
creational areas has perhaps done more toward
proving the facilities than any other single de-
lopment. If you, too, are looking for a “sure—
e” method of stimulating interest and encOUrag-
g participation, let them have light!

You Asked for It!

( Continued from page 246)

: d have them bat the ball among themselves to
e how many plays can be made without drop-
.g the ball. If group A bats the ball twenty
ies the other groups try to make more plays.
ith younger players, especially girls, allow them
modify the rules. For instance, permit a served
11 to be played by team mates before it goes
er the net. Also allow a player to hit the ball
re than once. Sometimes novices get more en—
ment if allowed to play the ball on the hrst
unce. Arrange for two good teams from a Y
another playground to play exhibition games.
’ art a four team league among your people even
ough they play poorly and are not greatly

. erested.

Question: How can I stimulate-interest in
ark and field sports? A few of any boys like
se sports but most of them are indiferent.

ANS‘ZUC’I’: Get four enthusiasts together and ask
in to help. Then propose that each head a team.
ch selects a color, say Red, Blue, Green, and
bite: Get a large card of each color. On these
rds enter the names as selected by the leaders.
ch team will be divided into weight or height
' sses. Have a meet each week for each class-—
\ h only 'three events. Score a point for each
11 who participates. Additional points to be
ditcd to individuals and teams for winning
agents on the basis of three points for a first, two
'1) ints for a second and one point for a third.
1.66:1) individual and team totals posted on the
cards. Each team leader is encouraged to add

I
r
l

YOU ASKED FOR [T3 267

     
   
      
       
       
  
     
      
 

Playground Helps

O A final reminder about some of
the inexpensive guides designed
to help you in your summer

playground program.

   

Games for the Playground . . . . $.25

(Some typical active and quiet games for
children from six to fourteen years of

age)

Conduct of Playgrounds . . . . . .25

(A practical guide for the playground
worker)

  

88 Successful Play Activities
Suggestions for an Amateur Circus . .25

Order from the

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue » New York City

  

members to his team and since the point total de-
pends on the number who participate rather than
on ability to win, captains will scout for men.
This plan can run for a,whole summer or for a
few weeks before a big inter—playground meet. It
may not work perfectly but it will stimulate in-
terest in track sports.

Question: Another playground worker and I
can not agree on the subject of treating minor in—
juries. He contends that we should ignore them
*zvhile I feel that because of the danger of infec—
tion we should regard injuries as important. What
do you think about it?

Answer: Perhaps there is some merit in both
points of View. Certainly cuts, scratches, blisters,
and bruises should receive attention. But would
you say that a recreation leader is justified in leav—
ing a happy group to its own resources while he
gets iodine, bandages, soap and water and pro-
ceeds to do an artistic job of first aid? Is he em-
ployed as a recreation leader or a bandager?

Your playground might conduct a First Aid

Class and follow it up by organizing a First Aid
Corps of boys and girls whose duty would be to

268 A COMMUNITY GOES VACATIONING F1

“HowTu Produce a Play"

» » A series of articles by Jack Stuart
Knapp which first appeared in a
number. of issues of RECREATION

have been brought together in a book-
let just off the press.

» » Choosing and casting the play;
the rehearsals; the final performance;
suggestions for costuming. make—up,
lighting and scenery, make this an
exceedingly practical, helpful book
for the inexperienced play director.

Price $.50

National Recreation Association

315 Fourth Avenue
New York City

 

take care of injuries. Thus the director is able to
give his attention to his primary duties and at the
same time know that necessary first aid is pro-
perly handled.

A Community Goes Vacationing
( Continued from page 248)

ball on at least two of the fOUr fields, a crowd in
attendance.

Climaxing weeks of baseball playing and an
eager watching of the League scores, came the an-
nual event of the season for the boys—the trip to
see the Phillies play St. Louis. “Three hundred
boys piled into cars driven by Rotary and Y. M.

C. A. club members to drive to the Philadelphia
Ball Park.

Picnics and Camping

Nearly as momentous events were the picnics.
Early on the morning of the day set, children be—
gan to arrive singly, in groups or with parents, all
with bathing suits and lunch. After an hour on
the bus, made gay by singing, the groups reached
a wooded spot by a lake. Mothers spread blankets
and sat and read, mended or chatted; children

Service Helps

(Continued from the June issue of RECREATION)

Fred .l-Iedart Manufacturing Company, St. Louis, M
pioneer manufacturer of equipment and apparatus us 1
by children in schools, parks and playgrounds, repo I
an unusual degree of interest and activity this season,
the part of buyers in both new equipment and repla
ment parts. This observation includes both the Med
line of Playground Apparatus and the Medart line i
Water Sports Equipment. This manufacturer offers .
Playground Apparatus Catalog No. P-3 and a n i
\Vater Sports Equipment Catalog No. W.S. l. Compl '
engineering service embracing analysis ‘of proposed 1 l
outs and recommendations based on.- ‘FMedart’s” 64 ye /
of experience is available without obligation to all ' i.
terested parties.

 

dashed off to change to the bathing suits in whi .7
they spent the rest of the day. Only at noon . ~E
they come out of the water to put away incredi 
quantities of food. Then followed rest and ga
before a final swim, and the trip home.

- A winter of knot tying, trail signs and natu ‘--
study, suddenly came to life for the Girl Sco
with their initiation to overnight camping. P
ceded by an all day trip that included hiki
swimming and cooking out and by a day in
organized camp, the overnight trip promised to

a marked success. The girls were taken in a b -
with blankets and food some fifteen miles fr 
Moorestown. They then walked through pi '
woods for a mile and a half to a suitable ca 1
site. There was time for a swim before beds w '
made and supper prepared. Then followed l
evening of singing about the evening fire, a mar .
mallow roast, and perhaps the most exciting of
—sleeping out all night! In the morning a dip
the lake was followed by a breakfast of cri
bacon and eggs hot from the frying pan. Sle
ing out was great fun in the opinion of the gi
and the next trip was eagerly anticipated.

For 1937—What?

And what of this year, 1937? So many thi
are possible that each crowds the other for att
tion. Nature. study through twilight and st
hikes, early morning camp breakfasts and p
petry are sure to be three additions to the p
gram. The craft shop will have another sessi
at each center devoted to stage craft and the m
ing and dressing of the puppets, while an aft
noon group will use the puppets in dramatizin
such favorite stories as “Cinderella” and “Lit
Red Riding Hood.” The Girl Souts are alre t
planning for a week-end camp and a day’s ca .2
trip. Bicycle trips, novice tennis tournaments as

in I
if

  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
     
  
 
 
  
 
    
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
    
  
 

tint swimming meets will be open affairs. Thus
e shall enlarge our experimental program, ever}:

tcepted for a program designed to utilize our
: mmunity’s resources and interests to the utmost.

"You're On the Air!"

(Continued from page 252)

 sical interludes “bridges,” in radio parlance)
' ich indicate changes of scene and lapses of
m e. Otherwise the interludes are inserted from
ordings. Appropriate standard musical selec-
ns may be used, or, even better, music written
' (I recorded especially for such programs, each
.’ ord being designed to fit a particular situation,
ch as “Omens” (mystery), “Orientale,” “Agi-
to” (emotional tension), and “Rushing Waters”

xcitement).

These brief notes on some of the aspects of
dio dramatic production will reveal how inter-
ting broadcast plays really are—for the director,
r the players themselves, who must convey
ry idea and emotion by word of mouth. and
' the technical crew, to whom each play brings
v sound effect requirements which must be
.. if realism is to be achieved. But the activities
‘ the group need not be confined to the studio.
st people are in total ignorance of what goes
in the studio while their favorite dramatic
i. r is being produced. Therefore they welcome
I . e. H . .
' opportunity to Witness a behind the scenes in
i0” program in which the mysteries of the
, -adcast drama are explained. The author’s
' ateur company has made many successful “per-
al appearances” before clubs and other organi-
ons in which, with the aid of a microphone
am all the varied sound devices, actual demon-
, tions are given of the technique of radio play
duction.

   
  
   
   
  
 
   

I

1\lor need amateur.dramatic groups exist for
r own sake alone. They are in constant de-
alnd to aid in various publicity campaigns such
‘5. those attendant to community chest drives.
'adio dramatizations of welfare work have been
tably successful ; during one campaign a year or
*p ago, the Chicago Associated Charities used
out a score of such playlets, which have been
imeographed for adaptation and use by similar

ten happens that successful play-casters are
gaged by commercial sponsors. For example,

(Continued on page 270)

tivity being carefully considered before being .

‘ganizations throughout the country. And it“

'. “THE FIVE DAY IVEEK BRINGS OPPORTUNITY” 269

gress in Atlantic City centered around these
words: “Five Day Week Brings Opportunity.”
“Although we do not know yet how this time will
be filled,” they said, “it is obvious that picnics
and outings will form a greater part of the sum-
mer program. The Saturday holiday is expected
to result in recreation being sought farther from
home.”

The industrial world was shocked a few weeks
ago when the Carnegie Illinois Steel Company re-
duced its work week from 48 to 40 hours. Other
companies followed its example. Carnegie Illinois
with 100,000 employees, thus set free 800,000 lei-
sure hours a week or 41,600,000 leisure. hours a
year! The recent action by other companies would
add their quota thereby enlarging the opportunity.
The industrial group foresees that the five-day
week will change the whole nature of industry’s
leisure time opportunity. Adult and family recre-
ation leap into prominence. Parks, camping, picnic
trails have new significance for workers when they
with their families can go out for a week-end of
two full days. Having two days together makes
possible many types of recreation which are not
possible during other spare hours.

Now is the time for careful thinking and plan—
ning for the best use of the rapidly growing lei-
sure period in American life. All of the evidence
points to more and more organizations adopting
the five day plan.

France, on one week’s notice declared a na-
tional five day 'week, effective April Ist last. Most
workers get Saturday and Sunday off, but Shops
and department stores close on Sunday and Mon-
day. The people were not prepared for such sud-
den action. Shopping districts were deserted and
crowds spent the extra day strolling along the
broad avenue of the Champs Elysee, and in the
parks. Lots of leisure and nothing to do! Shop
keepers were indignant. Workers refused to dis-
cuss the question with an American reporter be—
cause, they said, “the change is so great that a new
mode of life would be necessary.” Thrifty house-
wives were afraid the change would take money
from the home to be spent in drink. The men are
not so much concerned. Fishing in the Seine,
suburban gardens for the better class and sports
for youth are immediate subjects of discussion.

F rance’s Minister of Leisure, Leo LaGrange,

270 BADMINTON

faces a critical decision. Will he study the rigid
militaristic development of physical recreation in
Russia, Germany and Italy? \Vill he look to
England who, deeply concerned about the physical
welfare of her youth, now plans to spend
$10,000,000 primarily for the development of fa—
cilities for recreation? (This concern arose un-
fortunately over a condition that was revealed in
military recruiting efforts). Or will France face
her leisure problem with its humane aspects up—
permost—seeking opportunities for better living
for her people rather-than deliberately building
sturdy bodies for cannon fodder. Other European
nations prepare through recreation for war and
death. May France prepare for peace and life!

You're On the Air!
(Continued from page 269)

l

the various motion picture companies prepare fif-
teen—minute dramatic scripts based upon their new
films, which they supply to the theaters booking
the pictures. The theater managers, recognizing
the advertising value of these radio previews, en-
gage the local amateur radio group to produce
them in advance of the showing of the films.

Thus broadcast sketches offer a novel I and
highly interesting activity for any group which is
looking for new fields to conquer or for means of
becoming more familiar with the world behind
the microphone. Few recreational activities pro-
vide greater thrills than that of the moment when
the winking of a light below the microphone sig—
nals,“You’re on the air,” or more genuine satisfac-
tion than that which the entire group feels when
the musical curtain has fallen on what has proved
to be an adequate presentation of a well-written
radio play.

Badminton
(Continued from page 254)

B. Hit shot at opening left by opponent’s rush.

C. Attempt to drive shot down side line.

D. Drop shot by blocking bird toward front
corners.

13. Let bird drOp down below waist.

IV. Lob Shots

A. Make a lob “clear”-_——that is make it high
and long.
I. High enough to clear opponent’s maxi-
mum reach.
2. Within 5 feet of back line.

   
  

B. A 10b which falls in center court is a 10
point.

C. After lobbing—hurry to center court positio

D. An excellent defensive maneuver to reco
position.

E. Try to disguise shot when possible.

V. Soft Shots

A. Should always be aimed with 12 inches
junction of net and side line. '

B. Should be aimed within 4 inches of top
net.

C. When playing a soft shot from the Opp
ent, a good policy is to try to drop the s
in the opposite corner by a low fiat shot al
the net.

D. The soft shot can be delayed to add i
ception. ’

E. Use the soft shot mixed with other shot

' vary the play.

VI. The Smash

A. Should be for an ace.
B. Hit full and hard.
C. Alternative placements:
1. Along forehand side line.
2. Along backhand sideline.
3. At opponent’s feet. ‘
D. Try to force opponent to raise his ret
shot for a second smash.
E. Must be used at proper moment for efficien
F. Play all short lobs or short lob services w
a smash. '
G. Is not fully effective from back court.

VII. General Tactics

A. Maintain center court position.

B. Disguise your intention on every shot possi I

C. Make your opponent declare himself—t
hit behind him.

D. Don’t allow your footwork to betray you.

E. Try to anticipate your opponent.

F. Vary the game—don’t use the, same str
in the same situation every time it occurs

G. Use the wrist as a swivel for quick dir
tional changes of shots.

II. Smash for put-away shots.

I. The best defense against a smash is to 5'

ply block it. I

. The best defense is a good offense. I

K. Watch the bird closely.

. Nearly every player has a habituated r u

tion to certain situations—use them to y ‘
advantage.

(.1

1"

 

irst Aids For the Naturalist That
Fit the Pocketbook"

inexpensive nature material by William Gould
' a1. W. F. Humphrey Press Inc., Geneva, New

rk.
ATURE RECREATION IN A NUTSHELL” might well be
the title of this collection of material which play-
d leaders who are developing nature activities will
nvaluable. IThe following inexpensive leaflets and
hlets are available: Nature Games, 1936, 32 pages,
nts each—in quantities of 100, 8 cents each; 'The
e Guides Dictionary, 1936, 17 pages, 10 cents each
quantities of 100, 8 cents each; Bird Calendar, Key
: Check-List, 1937, two for 5 cents—in quantities of
. 2 cents each; Tree Calendar, Key and Check-List,
é“ two for 5 cents—in quantities of 100, 2 cents each.

l . . .
'. Investing Leisure Time

rank H. Cheley. The University Society, Inc., New
rk City. Paperbound, $.60; cloth, $1.00.

S BOOK is one of the personal engineering series pre-
red under the supervision of the Editorial Board of
Tniversity Society. It presents the significance and
Ophy of play not only in reference to the individual’s
nal happiness bpt his usefulness to his friends and
iates and the age in which he is living, The book is
iulating one for the individual in choosing the forms
reation best adapted to his needs and interests. The
n dealing with hobbies is particularly helpful.

Touring with Tent and Trailer

 infield A. Kimball and Maurice H. Decker. Mc—
aw-Hill Book Company, Inc., New York City. $2.50.

U ARE PLANNING a tour with tent and trailer, your
I st investment may well be this book which will tell
how to travel comfortably, enjoyably and economi—
! It will save the new trailer tourist many mistakes
‘ lling him what not to take, how and where to camp
other essentials of touring. The book gives an out-
a of the best travel routes and hints for caring for the
‘- r while traveling. There are special chapters on
I en motor campers and camping with small children.

u-

r'- Swinging into Goli

k

Ernest Jones and Innis BrOWn. McGraw-Hill Book
Liompany, Inc., New York City. $2.00.

RT I OF THIS PRACTICAL BOOK is devoted to an expo—

" lition of the swing technique, and there are diagrams

(1 pictures to illustrate the various points which Mr.

.nnes brings out so clearly. Part II deals with general

)servations and comparisons of the Jones’ system With
her methods.

Dramatic Tournaments in the

Secondary Schools

By Magdalene E. Kramer, Ph.D. Bureau of Publications,
Teachers College, Columbia University. $1.85.

" HE DRAMATIC TOURNAMENT, as an activity in the sec-

ondary schools, is rapidly expanding and is absorb-
ing an increasing amount of the time and energy of both
students and teachers. Furthermore, it is the center of a
controversy which has arisen among educators regarding
the evils and the values alleged to be associated with it.”
With these facts in mind the author sets out to deter—
mine what'are the educational values of the tournament
in order to make specific recommendations regarding the
place of such tournaments in the secondary school pro-
gram. A careful inquiry as to actual practice in this
field has been made and the resulting facts set forth.
Teachers and directors of tournaments have been quizzed
and their Opinions are listed and appraised. Interesting
and important questions are raised. How are tourna-
ments organized and conducted? What is the effect of
the extra work load on students and teachers? How are
tournament judges chosen? What awards are given?
What is the effect of competition in tournaments? What
are the real educational values of such tournaments?‘
These and many other questions‘ are answered in the
questionnaires from the field and evaluated by the author.

Young Children in European Countries

By Mary Dabney Davis. Bulletin No.2, United States
Department of the Interior. Government Printing Of—
iice, ‘Nashington, D. C. $.15.

THIS REPORT IS A RESULT of a study bv Mary Dabney
Davis of programs for young children in a number of

foreign countries. Miss Davis, who has been developing

the Emergency Nursery School Project in this country,

Secured information by personal visits to England, Scot-

land, Belgium, Holland, Italy, Austria and Hungary,

Czechoslovakia, the Soviet Union and Poland. Her re-

port is an exceedingly interesting and informative docu-

ment on nursery schools and similar developments for

little children.

Stunts with Numbers, Games
and Cards

By William M. June. Bodley and Pike, 105 Canal Street,
Syracuse, New York. $.25.
HERE IS A HANBDOOK of stunts and games which may be
played anywhere at any time with little preparation
or equipment. In addition to the mental games offered,
there is an interesting account of the origin of numbers.

271

272 NEIV PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

   
   
   
  

Preventing Crime. ing of School Grounds" which contains many pra

A Symposium. Edited by Sheldon and Eleanor suggestions WhiCh are applicable to Play areas:
Glueck. McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc., New 3C0}? Card for Measuring Physical Education F
york City_ $4_00_ tIes thch suggests the relative value of various

One of the most hOpeful signs of the time is the grow- tures of physmal Edupatlof bu‘ldmgsi and the 131'8
ing interest on the part of all classes of citizens in the and very.h31pflll ample Ontiloor Arffas and FaC'
question of delinquency and crime prevention. Citizens’ for EhySISal Education—The” Planmng and M
organizations of many kinds are being formed thrOugh- name Wind" 15 accompanmd by excellent illustra

out the country and many books have recently been writ-

ten on the subject. One of the most comprehensive of

these publications is Preventing Crime by the Gluecks.
It is a volume of more than 500 pages dealing with the
philosophy and principles of crime prevention and the
various methods which have been devised to cope with
the delinquency problem. The types of experience have
been carefully selected and grouped under six major
headings, with examples of each. ’These headings are:
Coordinated Community Programs; School Programs;
Police Programs; Intra-Mural Guidance Programs;
Extra-Mural Guidance Programs; Boys’ Clubs and Rec-
reation Programs. As a guide for workers the Gluecks
set down definite principles for crime prevention. A
study of these programs indicates clearly that there is no
one complete answer to the delinquency prevention prob-
lem and that there is necessity for more complete coor-
dination of all preventive agencies. The evidence of
aroused citizen interest and of a new experimental atti-
tude is encouraging.

Costumes for the Dance.

By Betty Joiner. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York City. $2.75.

The purpose of this book is “to aid the teacher and
dancer to appreciate and achieve-the definite unity be-
tween the design of the dance and the design of the cos-
tume." There are six plates in full color containing ten
individual costumes together Wtih forty-eight line and
wash drawings. The pattern drawings and directions on
how to make costumes out of inexpensive material make
the book esssentially practical.

A Directory of Organiations in the Field of
Public Administration—1936.

Public Administration Clearing House, 850 E. 58th
St., Chicago, Ill. $1.00.

The past few decades have seen an impressive growth
in the number of voluntary associations, organizations
and agencies concerned with questions of public adminis-
tration. This volume lists and describes more than 500
national organizations of public officials and national or-
ganizations active in” this important field, including some
thirty or more formed since 1934. The directory is a
guide to sources of information on' all types of govern-
mental problems.

'The Picnic.

Story by James S. Tippett. Illustrations by Samuel

J. 5Brown. E. M. Hale and Company, Milwaukee.
$.l .

Here is another of the Picture Scripts series issued
under the sponsorship of the cooperating editors at Lin-
-coln School, Teachers College, Columbia University.
This time it is a jolly, delightfully illustrated booklet
showing little Negro children on a picnic.

The American School and University—1937.

American School Publishing Corporation, 470 Fourth
Avenue, New York, N. Y. $5.00.

The increasing emphasis upon play in the school cur-

-will be of inestimable help to those timid souls

riculum and the growing community use of school build-
ings are refiected in the ninth annual edition of this pub-
lication. Recreation workers will find much of interest
throughout the entire volume. Of special value, how-
.ever, are such articles as: “Principles of Effective Plant-

  
    
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
    
  
    
 
   
  

and plans of school play areas in Pasadena, Calif
Particularly useful also is the comprehensive directo
univerSIty, college and school officials and the li
architects and landscape architects who have had e 1‘
ence In'the des1gning of school grounds and buil
The entIre volume is logically.1 and attractively arr

carefully indexed, and should 'be a valuable additi
the reference library.

Play Days.

By Clara I. Judson. Gross t d D 1
York City. e an un ap, Inc.

The happy adventures of three very'small pla

are described in this charmin 1 illustrat d b
addressed to children. g y e 00k

Designing with Wild Flowers.

By Nettie S. Smith. Obtainable from the Girl

giggipment Service, 14 West 49th Street, New

“An excellent book has just come to our attenti

‘cant draw a straight line’ and just know they
create their own designs. It is Designing with
Flowers by Nettie S. Smith. The steps by wh
naturalistic flower drawing may be conventionalize
s1mple patterns are made so interesting and so ex
that we wonder why we haven’t had the fun of p
thIs. game brought to our attention long before this
us It looks as though Miss Smith might have bee
servmg Dr. Vinal and Mr. Staples at their prank

had_put her observations into this charming nu
ReVIewed by Chester G. Marsh. .

Ofi‘icers and Directors of the Natio

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE. President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUEEE DAVISON Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL. Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON-HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD E. Looms, New York, N. Y.

J. H. McCURDv, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO'T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG. New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

 

 

200,:- a 6

 

U
hota by Wallace Hutchinson

Courtesy U. 5. Forest Service

70 august

August,

Little gypsy,

Gaily. dancing by . . .
Did you loan

Your crimson dress
To the sunset sky?

To the tiny
Dandelions,

Bathed in summer air . . .

Did you give
That golden band,
Tied around your hair?

Did you send
A bit of gay

Laughter from your eyes . .

To the starlets,
Softly nestling
In the evening skies?

' August,
,' Little gypsy,
Dancing on the grass . . .
Won’t you leave me
Bits of dreams,

As you gaily pass?

By Carol Colbam,

Pomona, California.

From “Some Poems by Camp Fire Girls."

273

CLARENCE M. CLARK

MemberI Board of Direc’rors
Na’rional Recrea’rion Associa’rion

I9I6—I937

 

