How Can I Make People Like Me?

OT THE CLOTHING WORN, not the house lived in, not the position held makes people like you;
rather what you yourself are, the amount of life there is in you, the spirit you carry, your inner
attitude toward others.

A zero or near zero person does not excite you overmuch. You do not like or dislike, you just
make an effort not to ignore. '

Father—your father—may be as faithful as any machine, as regular as any clock, may keep
more than ten commandments, may be a one hundred percent meal ticket, but—suppose he cannot
tell any bed-time stories, cannot sing, cannot act, cannot even make a willow whistle, comes home
every night too tired to smile, too tired even to talk much, too dull even to be a live listener, if he
has no “language of play,” of human relationship through which to share himself with his family.
of what use is he to his child? Food, clothing, shelter the child takes for granted—that of course, but
what more—what extra?

What is above the basement of life,—the life activities. the recreation activities—gives meaning
even to the foundation. Recreation helps to make and keep you a person and makes it easier for you
to reveal What you really are.

\

Just being “a person" is of course not enough. The kind of person you are is important. Many
vital, dynamic people push and crowd and shove and are plain disagreeable. They just are “poi-
son.” Recreation does aid in keeping poisons from.accumulating inside, in keeping lives ventilated
and flowing. The face lights up more easily, it is easier to remember that there are other people, if
you have some recreation, if you have the spirit of play inside. Even individual play is not really

solitary. You like to see other people's faces light up, too.

How can you make people like you? First, be careful in choosing your grandparents. Even if
they lived the hard life of pioneers make sure that they attended the barn raisings and the huskings
and sang in their homes on Sunday night. Then choose your father with care and even more your
mother. If-you can find a mother who was herself a play leader, a kindergartner, a Camp Fire girl.
a Girl Scout, so much the better. You want a mother who makes the home a real center with
music and games and the sharing of all good living. Then be careful in choosing a place to be born.
As you look about, make sure the.neighborhood.has a playground, a recreation center near, where
you can always go when you are free and be sure of finding other children who want to play, where
you can have a marvelous time, with a good, happy play leader in charge. Then later you will never
have memories of being lonely as a child, of being bored, left out, of being bullied by older boys, or
learning to bully others yourself. As you look for a birthplace, be sure there is a church where there
is opportunity for members and their families to play together as well as worship together.

. .You tell me that your grandparents, and parents, and neighborhood and church are all settled.
You are really grown up now. You have no memories of happy childhood recreation in the home
and in the neighborhood center. Well, that is just too bad. Where do you come in?

Why not pretend that you did have all that you would wish for your children? Why not live

as if you had been brought up. in the play tradition—to live a little time each day or at least each
week—if you cannot live all the time? Why not live as play-trained children do as if work were

not the end of all life,—live with your children, your neighborhood, your generation? Why not
help to unite all men of good intent in making at least a part of the world happier, hoping that a

happier world for all will be at least a little better world?

We cannot always know morally what is better and what is worse. Usually it is easier to tell
what are the human activities that bring enduring joy.

How can you make people like you?

Even a dog is puzzled when he finds a man without the spirit.of play, a man who makes no
response 'when a stick is temptingly dropped at his feet. If you want dogs and men to like you, keep

the play spirit, keep the world around you one that has the play spirit.
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

r'

m MacMurray College Library

JackaOnville, Illinois

33??! ‘

 

Go to Your Nearest Playground!

HAT activities
W are you plan-

ning for your
3 u m m e r p 1 a y -
ground? Are you
thinking about ways
of making the pro-
gram a little differ-
ent? Of adding the
spice of variety?
True, there is little
that’s new Under the
sun, but sometimes
there are new ways
of doing old things!
Here are a few sug-
gestions from last year’s experi-
ences.

The Lure of the Fireplace; Last
summer the children of East
Orange, New Jersey, playgrounds
maintained by the Board of Rec-
reation Commissioners enjoyed a
number of programs centering about the fireplaces
on three of the playgrounds. Groups hiked for
picnic meals from the three playgrounds without
fireplaces to those which were the proud posses-
sors of these outdoor cooking places, and every-
thing from hot dogs to fudge was cooked by the
youthful campers. So much interest was aroused
at two playgrounds that at the end of daylight
saving and the closing of playgrounds at six
o’clock, Saturday morning fireplace breakfasts
were substituted for the fireplace suppers during
the remainder of the playground season.

A Family Heirloom Exhibit. Another new proj-
ect last year was the family heirloom exhibit held
on each of the six playgrounds in East Orange.
Beginning as a children’s exhibit of family heir—
looms and keepsakes, interest spread to the grown-
ups with the result that almost as many articles
were entered by them as by children. Adults made
up half of the large crowds attending the exhibit
at each playground. There were no awards or com—
petitive grouping of articles; they were merely on
display with little placards giving some interest-
ing bit of history concerning them. Many of the
exhibitors stayed by their exhibits and related their
history to those viewing them. This gave an in-

sm—uxecwntcnemon L

Announces he opening of
II OSWERVISED PLAY GROUNDS

#0}!de JUNE [5:

SWIMItllleth~ DANCING' MUSIC' WHO“ RAID CRAFT“
CLUBI' ART' ATHLEIKI- KlNDEQGARTEw

SPECIAL WOODWORK CLMIEt "* BOYS
lmd hurt ' tren to the Neareit tarsrouad

 

Such sign boards as this will
a soon be dotting the highways of
America. and many thousands
of children will eagerly ac-
cept the invitation which com-
munities everywhere will extend
to "come to the playground."

formal and personal
touch to the occa-
sion and made it
more interesting.

There's a Use for
Everything! Recrea-
tion departments
have become most
resourceful in fer-
reting out material
for use in their
handcraft program.
Raymond T. Fors-.
berg, Superintend-
ent of Recreation
in Salt Lake City,
Utah, states that the Emergency
Service which is working closely
with his municipal recreation de-
partment has discovered some in-
genious ways of providing mate-
rials and devising projects.

To secure cigar boxes which
play so important a part in the handcraft pro-
gram, newspaper boys were enlisted through a
contest in the gathering 'of the boxes. The boys
collected approximately 8,000 boxes in a period of
a little over a month. Merchants saved the boxes
for the boys who were identified participants in
the contest.

Film cans are generally disposed of by film ex-
changes as being worthless, but these empty tins
can be used in numerous ways in a handcraft pro-
gram. Sewing baskets, book ends, hot plate hold-
ers, banjos, tambourines, lamp shades and tin can
articles of all types can be fashioned from these
cans.

Bowling pins that have reached stages beyond
practical use constitute desirable lathe material.
The Salt Lake City recreation department has
supplied each play center with croquet sets made
chieliy from old ten pins. Table lamps, ash trays
and games may also be constructed from these
maple pins.

Street car advertising cards offer one good side
for poster work and other cardboard projects. A
use may be found for window display cards which
may be obtained with the expenditure of little
effort.

4 GO TO YOUR NEAREST PLAYGROUND!

A Story-Telling Festival. Story-telling was one of
the most p0pular activities on the playgrounds of
Danville, Illinois, last summer, and interest in the
program culminated in a story-telling carnival.
The children taking part in the carnival followed
a fiddler who led them to bands of wandering
story-tellers, folk dancers and musicians. The
story-tellers, in costumes of the various countries
they represented, entertained the children with
tales of fairy and folk lore and with thrilling
stories of knights and adventure. The folk danc-

ers danced on the green to the songs of the singing
fiddler.

Mothers and Dads Clubs. The Playground and
Recreation Association of Alton, Illinois, has or-
ganized a number of dads clubs and mothers clubs
which are helping to develop the playgrounds in
their neighborhoods.

It all started when a club was organized for the
single purpose of helping to promote a playground
in a section of, the city where it was badly needed.
This pioneer dads club, known as the Kiwanis
Water Tower Dads Club, did such an excellent
piece of work in accjuiring a lease for a play-
ground and shelter house, installing flood lights
and other equipment at their playground that

other groups were inspired to organize for the.
benefit of their neighborhoods. There are now‘

seven dads clubs and four mothers clubs all doing
everything they can to improve facilities and
programs. 1

During the past year the Kiwanis Water Tower
Dads Club raised $1,339 which
they spent on acquiring additional
property, improving flood lights,
sponsoring a baseball team and
improving the shelter house. Hell—
rung Playground Dads Club rais-
ed $725 all of which was Spent on
improving the playground. They
recently purchased thirteen flood
lights, paid a coal and janitor bill
and a number of other bills. The
Mothers Club of Hellrung Play-
ground raised $426 which they
spent on flood lights, a loud

When clays are hotI or when 'it
rains' quiet games will have a
special appeal for the children

speaker system, drapes for the building, dishes
and other supplies.

All of these clubs help keep interest alive in
their respective playgrounds, and there is a natural
rivalry between the clubs as each seeks 'to outdo
the others in making its playground the most at-
tractive and popular in the city.

"Come. and See” Days. More communities than
ever before last summer initiated “Come and See”
Days. On some of these days parents received
special invitations to come to the playgrounds and
such events were scheduled as father and “son
baseball games and mother-daughter volley ball
games. In some instances an invitation was ex-
tended to citizens in general to visit the play areas,
and automobile tours were arranged which would
give the visitors an opportunity to see just what
the city had to offer in facilities and programs.

Community Nights. The Bloomfield, New Jer-
sey, Recreation Commission in a bulletin to work-
ers suggests that one evening each month be de-
voted to a community night presenting a program
designed to show the parents what children have
been doing on the playground and to secure their
interest in the activities. A typical community
night, the bulletin suggests, should include the
best of'the activities conducted during the week
and activities which parents and children can en—
joy together. Among such activities are the
following:

Boys’ baseball game
Girls’ volley ball game

 

GO TO YOUR NEAREST 'PLA YGROUND .r 5'

Father and son baseball game

Father and son horseshoe game

Mother and daughter volley ball game

Kazoo band

Kitchen band

Community singing

Toy orchestra

Folk dancing

Games, contests, stunts and relays for adults
and children

Stunt night

Pet and hobby Show

Lantern parade

Mother and daughter night

Pageant

Handicraft exhibits

Dramatics

Father and son night

Floral parade

Flower show

Sports night

Circus

Cycle night (anything on wheels)

Get acquainted night

Picnic night

Minstrel show

Mock track meet

Vehicular night

Top spinning

Father and son marble game

Nationality nights

Come and Bring Your Supper! This was the in-
vitation issued to family groups in one city where
community night programs were held last sum-
mer. And after supper came volley ball games
and circle games. The program features of com-
munity night were developed from activities on
the playgrounds and included toy orchestras, quar-
tets, harmonica bands, ukulele selections, dancing
numbers, dramatic groups, and pantomimes. Com-
munity singing, it was found, helped to make the
group feel more at home, and many spontaneous
features were developed.

Circuses Galore! Play days and playground cir-

cuses added enormously to the interest in the play--

ground program in Cincinnati, Ohio, during part
of July and all of August when performances
were given twice a week on various playgrounds.

The W PA band and circus, both Federal proj-
ects, Were important sources of entertainment at
play days. The schedule at each playground was
somewhat as follows: At II :00 in the morning

play day opened with an exhibition of stamp clubs
and the band gave a concert. This was followed

by rapes and contests for boys and girls up to
fourteen. Then came a comedy softball game in
which the male participants wore skirts. Between
2:30 and 3:00 the VVPA band gave its concert
followed by an exhibition of model flying planes.
At 3:00 P. M. a salute to the fiag was given by all
present. Then the VVPA circus—clowns, acro—
bats and other performers—went into action.
Among other attractions were a wire walking act,
an act by the playground magician, and a per-
formance by a trained dog and pony. The day
was brought to a close with the serving of re-
freshments by playground mothers’ clubs, PTA
and other organizations.

Everything on Wheels. Wheel Day was a special
activity developed on the playgrounds of Danville,
Illinois,_ last summer. There were races and
parades in which approximately 1,500 children
participated, with bicycles, tricycles, two wheel
carts, scooters, wheelbarrows, wagons, kiddie cars,
and toy automobiles. Some of the oustanding
novelties displayed at Oaklawn Community Cen-
ter playground included an old-fashioned stage
coach with footmen and driver, drawn by four
boys dressed to represent horses; a cart with at-
tendants carrying fans and dressed in South Sea
Island costumes, and a doll buggy decorated in
colored crepe paper. After a parade at each play-
ground a series of novelty races were staged. The
events for bicycles included a cross-country race,
obstacle races, chariot races, trick riding, coasting
for distance, and riding without holding handle
bars. For smaller children there were tricycle and

roller skating races.

A Record of Happy Memories. Each playground
conducted by the Bloomfield, New Jersey, Recrea-
tion Commission was urged to keep a notebook
which will serve as an up-to-date annual or scrap-
book showing the various events on the play—
grounds. Materials, it was suggested, should be
arranged according to a definite plan, possibly
with a division for each of the following: Ath-
letics ; rhythmic activities; drama; publicity; spe-
cial activities; special days; handicraft; music;
page for jokes, etc.

Another suggestion was that a day by day rec-
ord be kept in the form of a diary. For this the
children brought clippings from home.

(:hades liaydeh

N JANUARY 8, 1937,

Charles Hayden of

New York City died.
When his will was read it
was learned that the great-
er part of his estate, esti-
mated at about $50,000,000.
had been left to establish
a foundation for boys and
young men to be known as
the Charles Hayden foun-
dation.

“I am firmly convinced,”
said Mr. Hayden in his
will, “that the future of
this nation and of the
world, for that matter, de-
pends in no small part
upon the young men of the
United States, and that if
they receive proper train—
ing in boyhood and youth
through education, mental
recreation, wholesome edu—
cational entertainment and a
coordinated physical training, and more than all,
if in addition they be fostered and encouraged in
the manner of right and proper living and the
principles thereof properly inculcated, to the end
that they may be kept from evil environments and
guarded against baneful influences, we shall rear
a nobler race of men who will make better and
more enlightened citizens, to the ultimate benefit
of mankind.”

The general purposes of the foundation Mr.
Hayden listed as follows:

(I) To assist needy boys and ydung men

(2) To aid and assist in charitable and public
educational uses and purposes for the moral, men-
tal, intellectual and physical well-being, uplifting,
upbuilding and development of boys and young
men of this country.

(3) To found and/or to provide scholarships
for deserving boys and young men of this coun-
try, and for graduates or undergraduates of col-
leges, and to assist them in attending any educa-
tional institution in this country or abroad.

(4) To assist in and/or to found, equip or pro-
vide for the maintenance of institutions or asso-

6

 

CHARLES HAYDEN

ciations for the advance-
ment of learning in this

country.
(5) To aid, assist, build,

equip and maintain clubs,
gymnasia and recreation
centers in this country for
the training and develop—
ment of boys and young
men.

(6) To aid and assist
and to receive, hold, ad—
minister and dispose of
property to or for the
benefit of any university,
college, school or other in—
stitution for the advance-
ment of learning or of any
branch or department

thereof or for the benefit
of any hospital or of any
branch or department
thereof. ‘

Service! to the National Movement
For the past ten years Mr. Hayden had served
as a member of the Board of Directors of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. His services to the
Association and to the country at large were com-—
memorated in the following resolution passed by
the Board of Directors:

I“The National Recreation Association records
with profound regret the death on Friday, Janu—
ary 8, 1937 of Charles Hayden who for ten years
served as a member of the Board of Directors.
Mr. Hayden’s first service to the Association was
in 1917 when he helped on the finance committee
for ~War Camp Community Service. Mr. Hayden
always gave generously himself. In later years
as sponsor for the Association in New York City,
he helped to increase the number of friends giving
and the size of contributions. He was generous in
allowing the use of his name and connections in
the service of the Association. With all of his
business interest, Charles Hayden found time to
think about and work for recreation, education-
and leisure-time activities. He cared deeply for

(Continued on page 42)

For Newer and Better Houses!

tors at twenty-four of the

Minneapolis Park play-
grounds were furnished with
craft materials for the con-
struction of miniature houses
and furnishings. Each play-
ground was permitted to de-
sign and construct a house of
its own choice. A sample
house was built by the craft
supervisors -to demonstrate

IN SEPTEMBER, 1936, instruc-

Compiled by WALTER DAHLBERG

Minneapolis Park Board

For enthusiasm and interest few
cratt proiects conducted on the
park playgrounds of Minneapolis.
where Karl 3. Raymond serves as
Director of Recreation, can com-
pete with the doll house proiect
introduced in the tall ot I936.
Because of its success and the
widespread comment it createdI
some of the details of the pro-

The houses ranged in archi-
tecture from English Tudor
and Spanish adobe down to

- our latter-day American bun-

galow and the ultra-modern
house of the type exhibited at
the Chicago World’s Fair.
They varied in size from two
feet to five feet in width and
length, and from four rooms
to twelve rooms, but all were
uniformly well executed from

building technique to the in—
structors, but the style of
architecture, the size and the
arrangement of the rooms were left to the indi-
vidual playground. Each playground was asked to
have its house ready by December 15th, as it was
planned to, present the completed houses to the
children in homes, orphanages and hospitals as
Christmas gifts.

The playground children went to work with
great enthusiasm, digging up plans, designing
rooms and planning furniture. Although no
awards were offered in competition, the children
on each ground wanted their house to be more at-
tractive than the neighboring park’s house. The
result was .that the young builders fairly outdid
themselves in creating houses of original and
unique design, and in furnishing them in excellent
taste down to the most minute detail. Playground
instructors reported that few projects had aroused
so much interest as the construction of these
miniature houses.

On December 15th the completed houses were
brought in from the parks and placed on display
in the Mayor’s reception room at the City Hall
for three days. At the end of. the three days so
many people still crowded the display room that
Mayor Thomas E. Latimer decreed that the houses
be permitted to remain on exhibition for three
more days. This was done at the expense of city
boards and commission which regularly use the
Mayor’s reception room as a meeting place.

iect will be of interest.

a craft standpoint, and all
were tastefully furnished.

A detailed description of
two or three of the outstanding houses will give
an idea of the thoroughness of execution and the
attention to detail which marked the project.

North Common‘s Old English Half-
Timbered House

The house constructed by the North Common’s
playground children was built in the English half-
timbered bungalow style. The house was about
three feet square and built with a detachable roof
to provide access to the interior.

Three ply panel wood served as the basic ma-
terial for the walls. The half-timbers were ap—
plied, and the panel wood surface was plastered
both on the exterior and interior. Mottled tones
of color were then stippled onto the plaster and
given a swirled effect by use of water mix putty
applied heavily and textured while still wet with
a stiff bristle brush used with a swirl technique.

Trimming such as window casings, door cas—
ings, mop boards and rafters were made from
balsa wood of a scaled width and thickness. The
chimney was constructed of plaster shaped to look
like flagstones and variously colored red-sienna,
blue-violet, grey and sand. Shingles, two inches long
and varied in width, were cut from suit boxes.
One inch {of overlap was used in laying the shingles.

The porch, the vestibule and the stoop were
built separately and attached to the house. Doors

7

5 FOR .\ EH! ER AND BETTER HOUSES!

 

were eliminated from all rooms with the excep-
tion of the bathroom. Sheet celluloid was used

for the windows.

The interior of the house was divided in live
rooms: living room, dining room, bedroom, nurs-
ery, kitchen and bathroom.

A short walnut—stained stairway with a carved
rail led from the vestibule down to the living
room, which was built lower than the other rooms.
The color scheme was. red, gold and green. Fur—
niture in the room included a grand piano, a
radio, a fireside bench, andirons, a davenport, two
chairs, a footstool, two end tables and two lamps.

The dining room, which was of the sunken
variety, contained eight pieces of furniture———a

Tudor table, a buffet and six chairs which were ,

upholstered in red. All of the furniture was hand-
carved.

The master bedroom contained an English bed,
a chest of drawers, a vanity and a cedar chest. All
of the furniture was of two tones. The accessor-
ies—drapes, rug, curtains, spread and pillows—
were done in orchid.
‘ The nursery, done in blue and peach, contained
a bed, a chest of drawers and a vanity. The ac-
cessories were in peach.

Interior of the
Colonial house
showing details
of the rooms and
the furniture

The kitchen,
which was in
white with black
trimming, con-
tained a sink,
built-in cup-
boards, a table,
two chairs, a re-
frigerator, an
electric range
and refuse con-
tainer.

The bathroom,
located between ‘
the nursery and
the b e d r o o m,
was done in or-
chid and green and contained a bath tub, a lava-
tory bowl and a stool.

Powderhorn Park’s Colonial House

The house from Powderhorn Park was built in
the Colonial style with a gabled roof and window
shutters. The exterior was completely sided with
a deep siding, its one end being broken by a wide.
brick chimney. Exterior colors were green and
white.

The interior had its full length living room,
complete in all its details of trimming and fur-
niture. W'allpaper was used throughout in the
interior scheme of the house. A dining room, kit-
chen, bedroom and large hall completed the first

' floor arrangement. The second floor had three

large bedrooms, upper hall, nursery and a bath.
The craftsmanship in the construction of the fur-
niture was unusual. Miniature wax fruit, crepe
paper Howers and other minute details were not
lacking.

Living Room. Full length, in gold color scheme
with gold curtains. Tan-gold carpet. overstuffed
davenport and chair to match. Over stuffed oc-
casional chair and footstool. Magazine rack and
bookcase. W'hite wax vase with Chrysanthemums

FOR NEH ER AND BETTER [/01 515.3" 0

on the ‘tioor by fireplace. Candle holders
of yellow construction paper and yellow
candles over the fireplace, together with
a clock made of wood and construction

paper.

Dining Room. VVallpapered blue and
cream. Blue curtains. Bluish rug. A dish
made of blue construction paper and fruit made
of wax on buffet. Candle holders of blue con—
struction paper with red candles also on buffet.
Lace tablecloth and Howers (red roses made with
crepe paper) on dining room tables. Upholstered
chairs covered with blue crepe paper.

Kitchen. Green and white. Cupboards, sink,
table, chairs, range and refrigerator.

Two Halls. Cream—colored wallpaper. Green rug.

Upstairs Hallway. Table and chair with French
telephone (made of waxm-black) and a telephone
booké‘lndian rug on the floor and the same on
table. ‘

Bedrooms. Back downstairs bedroom —-—pink
bedspread and ivory furniture. Large bedroom——
twin beds of yellow walnut. Front bedroom
(small)———peach and white spread. Peach curtains.

Nursery; Blue and pink color scheme. Rugs
made of pink crepe paper with a border of light
blue. Furniture a
light blue. Walls
pink. White lace
curtains with
pinI. tie backs.
Small pink wax
lamp with blue
shade (construc-
tion paper) 011
table. A play pen,
cradle, cedar
chest and chair.

Bathroom. The
bath tub was
made from a bar

of P. 8: G. laun-

dry soap, carved

Children of Glen

Lake Sanitarium
have their first

glimpse of the
new doll house

Not only "own your own home," but "build it
yourself" is the advice offered by the child-
ren of the park playgrounds of Minneapolis

out, shellaeed and painted white. Half-walls and
floor were of black and white tile.

C

Sibley Field’s Ultra-modern House

The house from Sibley Field was unique in
that it was done in the modern style. A rounded
solarium and modernistic chimney done in vivid
colors were the decorative motifs of the exterior.
The roof was terraced with its quarter-circular
terraces trimmed with a fiange in colors matching
the chinmey. The roof surfaces and all window
and door trimmings were painted with alumium
bronze. Exterior decorative colors were ivory,
black and vermillion.

The interior featured seven rooms—living room
with circular solarium at one end, dining room,
kitchen, two bedrooms, bath and hall. All these
were painted in pleasing pastel colors. The fur-

fC'ontfnur‘d on. page 42)

 

Back to Atlantic City!

HE ANNOUNCEMENT of the Twenty-Second
T National Recreation Congress to be held May

I 7-2I, 1937, has met with splendid response.
From all parts of the country, from laymen and
executives have come evidences of interest, in the
form of practical suggestions and questions for
the Congress program. There is every reason to
believe that the attendance will be large and widely
representative and that the discussions will be of
a high order.

Program T0pics and Leaders

The program topics have been selected from a
wide range of stlggestions from the field. Every
item represents the interests of a considerable
group of people. Some of the major topics will
concern every worker and every layman interested
in the cause of recreation.

The theme of the Congress is “Importance of
Recreation in Modern Life.”

Dr. J. H. Finley, First Vice-President of the
National Recreation Association, and Associate
Editor of the N ("20 York Times, will preside. John
G. \Vinant, Second Vice-President of the Asso-

Dr. John H. Finley, the Asso-
ciation's First Vice-President,
who has presided so delightful-
ly over meetings at Congresses
in the pastI will be with us.

 

10'

 

At two previous Congresses Rabbi Abba
Hillel Silver has given most inspiring
addresses. He will speak again before
the Twenty-Second Recreation Congress.

ciation and until recently Chairman of the Social
Security Board, will also be at the Congress and
will preside at some of the meetings.

Rabbi Silver of Cleveland, Ohio, well known
to many recreation workers, will speak on “Life

in a World of Confusion.”

M r. Aubrey Williams, Associate Director of the
Works Progress Administration, will outline the
scope of “Recreation Undertakings in the Federal
Government.”

Dr. James S. Plant, of the Essex County, New
Jersey Juvenile Clinic, and a leader among the
social workers of that state, will address the Con-
gress on the subject, “Recreation and the Social
Integration of the Individual.”

Melvin E. Haggerty, Dean of the College of
Education, University of Minnesota, will speak on
the “Enrichment of Community Life.”

Mr. V. K. Brown, Superintendent of Recrea-
tion, Chicago, will present “The Capture of Lei-
sure for Use in Volunteer Service to the Govern-

' ment.”

Dr. Ernst Hermann, Dean of the Sargent Col~
lege of Physical Education, Boston University,

Cambridge, Massachusetts, will speak on “Crea-
tive Physical Activities.”

BACK TO ATLANTIC CITY! ll

Other well-known speakers,
whose names will appear in the
linal program, will be present.

I

Discussion Groups

As usual, the main work of the
Congress will be done in discus-
sion groups, each with a presiding officer, several
discussion leaders and a summarizer. The lind-
ings of each group will be presented to the gen-
eral sessions of the Congress for information. dis-
cussion and action. These groups will have under
consideration the following topics, selected as
stated above, from suggestions that have come
from all parts of the country.

Topics for Discussion

Recreation requirements for modern youth.

Problems of board members.

Volunteers in recreation service.

Recreation in American family life.

Recreation in religious organizations.

Industry—Recreation programs for employees.

Present problems in rural recreation.

Recreation in colored communities.

Camping in the recreation program.

Nature activities in public recreation.

Musical possibilities in present day life.

Opportunities for drama in an up-to-date depart-
ment.

Arts and crafts as recreation.

Special recreational needs of girls and women.

l’rogram planning in public recreation.

Under What conditions are separate boys’ club and
girls’ club buildings desirable?

What legislative action is necessary for adequate
recreation service today?

General tax problems which affect rec—
reation. '

If Federal grants in aid be established.
what form should it take?

Charges and fees for public recreation.

Personnel problems in recreation-- Sec-
tion lu—Training and Experience.

Personnel problems in recreation —— Sec-
tion lI——-Maintaining the Merit System.

How can gains in emergency work be
built into the permanent program?

Losses and gains if recreation in my city
were centralized in the school board.

Making recreation known to the public.

Wider use of the schools for enrichment
of community life.

"duo-Mr rum-r

my“ .
i A '1
n4 - ~ . -’ ,
u ' \ tie: Ii ' *
>-

f

The sun porch at the Ambassador which
will tempt delegates—after meetings!

 
   
   

Are you making your plans to attend the National
Recreation Congress?

I Atlantic City. Headquarters l-lotel--the Ambassador

Time--May l7-2I. Place--

Park and recreation maintenance problems.

Facing the problems found in recent recreation
surveys.

Responsibility of recreation systems for CO-
recreation.

Major Issues

Two years have passed since the Congress last
met. During those two years social and economic
changes have taken place which re-emphasize cer-
tain aspects of recreation and in others change the
whole approach to the problem.

Federal reorganization and the report of the
Committee on Better Personnel in Government
Service have thrown the question of Personnel
and the Merit System into the first rank of inter-
est and importance. Standards of training and ex—
perience, certification and tenure of service are of
vital-importance to recreation leaders now and
will be increasingly so during the next few years.-

The depression has been officially declared “out”
but we still have nine million of unemployed peo-
ple, half of whom are young people who are out
of school and who have never had a job. The
liquidation of the VVPA recreation program has
begun. Vast new recreation facilities provided

(Continued on page 44)

‘ "‘
‘ltlllitll!

a. h

The Duties of a Recreation Board Member

Some thoughts on the responsibilities and
functions of the board member and his re-
lationships with the recreation executive

HE MEMBER of a recreation

board or commission oc-

cupies a position of pub-
lic trust offering unlimited op-
portunities for service to the community. No
other type of public service needs leadership of
higher quality than does public recreation, and
members of recreation boards should be among
the ablest and most devoted men and women of
the community. Upon them and upon their vision
and judgment depends the quality of service of-
fered the public.

\Vithin rather broad limitations the recreation
board determines the amount of money to be
spent on recreation, the kind of leadership em-
ployed, and the scope of the program and its ex-
pansion. In short, every fundamental policy of a
department is influenced. by the members of the
board, and it is therefore essential that they be
thoroughly familiar with their. official responsi-
bilities and that they realize to the full the im—
portance of the duties they have undertaken.

Functions of a Recreation Board

There are certain recognized functions of the
governing board that are fundamental. Among
them are the following:

The interpretation of the community recreation
program to public officials and to the general citi-
zenship in terms of adequate moral and financial
support.‘ ‘

The maintenance of high
standards in recreation leader-
ship and in quality of program
service. _

The selection of the recrea-
tion executive or superintend-
ent and the defining of the
scope of his powers and duties.

The appointment, upon rec-
ommendation of the recrea-
tion executive, of all em-

12

By CLYDE DOYLE

President, Recreation Commission
Long Beach. California

"Some of our leisure must be devoted
to public affairs. .
tion we can make is not only a pa-
triotic duty but we shall find it also
very much our own business. Leisure
gives us this opportunity. If demo-
cracy ever could mean anything it
must mean that each citizen should
joyoust contribute of timeI thought
and energy to the benefit of the
whole group."-—-George B. Cutten
in Challenge of Leisure.

. . Any contribu-

ployees, and the determination
of their functions and duties.
(A number of authorities ad-
vise the appointment of all em-
ployees by the recreation executive alone on the
basis that he is responsible to the board for the
carrying out of certain objectives and the method
of accomplishment should rest in his hands. Many
believe, therefore, that the executive should have
the power to select his own assistants and to de-
fine their duties and functions in a way which will
best accomplish his objectives. Civil Service
would be utilized wherever possible in selecting
local personnel on a merit basis.)

The determination and establishment of the
general policies to be followed in carrying out the
purpose for which the department was established.

(As a matter of practical experience the execu-
tive, being a trained and experienced technician,
may be the official actually to deve10p the plans
and policies adopted by the board.)

The consideration of and passing judgment
upon the recommendations coming from any
source outside the department, especially if such
suggestions involve matters of general policy.

Appropriation of the budget and the securing
of the required funds.

The authorization of expenditures within the'
budget granted and the careful examination of
expenditures.

A strict accounting to the
people of the community
through the proper fiscal au-
thorities of the use of all'funds.

A full report to the public
of all the activities of the dev
partment during the Year.

To Insure Successful
Relationships

Upon the wisdom of the

board in dealing with its execu-
(Contirmcd on page 46)

Pegsf-And What to Do With Them!

By

EDW. J. RONSHEIM

Director of Recreation
Anderson. Indiana

greatly reduced funds for the purchase of play
supplies. Consequently, when a local manu-
facturer presented the Recreation Department

with several scores of pegs a great deal of con-
sideration was given the question of what to do
with them.

At first it seemed impossible to conjure up any
use for the pegs, which were slightly under two
inches in diameter and eight inches long, with one
beveled end. But at last we had the idea of using
them to replace the old broken and expensive In-
dian clubs. No sooner said than done! Out came
the pegs. They were counted out in sets of twelve,
two painted one color and ten another. A box- or
basket was provided as a kit and into it went the
pegs, two six-inch Voit balls (six-inch inflated
rubber balls) and two twelve-inch square pieces
of old linoleum. Two old croquet mallets or im-
provised ones included in the kit made more ac-
tivities possible. Additional pegs could be made
of 2 x 2 x 8 inch wood with the edges beveled
with a plane.

The kits proved very popular and around them
developed a large number of games, many of
which were adaptations of old games and some of
which were completely new. Here are some of
the more popular games:

IN OUR COMMUNITY we found ourselves with

Peg Bowl Ball. This game may be played by
from ten to thirty players and may be played in-
doors or out. An area about 30 feet square is
needed. Line up teams and pegs as in the diagram
below—“A” and “B” are the two teams of play-
ers, “X” indicates a peg and “O” the bowler’s box.

338.338.333.33.
XXXXXKXXXX

bbbbbbbbbo

The distance between players “A” is about three
feet; pegs are one foot apart and three feet in

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

Play Pegs is the child—or perhaps
we should say are the children—of
the depression! The development of
the activities described in this article
by Mr. Ronsheim is typical of what

' has been going on in many communi-
ties taced with the necessity of pro-
viding play equipment with little or
no money. Ingenuity and resource-
tulness have solved the problem in

many a city. They did in Anderson!

  

front of players “A”, and “O” is ten to thirty
feet from the middle peg. '
The first bowler (“B”) steps into the bowler’s
box and bowls an air-filled ball not 'over six inches
in diameter at the pegs. If he misses a peg he is
out and moves to the right out of the box. If he
knocks one or more down he scores a point for
each knocked over, even though the ball hits a
player “A” and bounces back to the peg. He
continues to bowl until he is out. Three outs make
“side-out” and teams then change positions. The
bowler must keep one foot in the box until the
ball has left his hand, otherwise he is out. The
team “A” merely retrieves the ball for the bowlers.
Five innings at least should be played. Play fast.

Peg in the Ring. One peg and a six-inch ball are
all the equipment needed. The players align
themselves as in the diagram. “V” represents the
players, while “ r” is “it” and “0” represents two
players who retrieve the ball, taking their turns
last at bowling. The lines are thirty or forty feet
apart and players stand two feet apart. The cen-
ter circle at P is three feet in diameter with a play
peg placed in its center.

VVVVVVVVVVVVV

 K‘A’J
(P) x

Line “B”
o 0

Player “V” nearest the middle of the line bowls ‘
the ball at the peg until he has knocked it down
or has used up his five chances to do so. If the

13

l4 [DECS—AND LVHAT TO DO WITH THEM!

bowler knocks down a peg he runs to line “B,”
while “it” or “X” sets the peg up and then tries
to tag him. If he is caught he becomes “it” and
the old “it” takes the place of an “O” who joins
the “V” players. If the bowler misses all five
chances he must run on the last one and take a
chance on being tagged and made “it.” At any

time when the peg is down or a bowler has the .

ball, a runner behind line “B” (other than an
“0”) may return. He may be tagged and be made
“it.” Once he starts away from “B” he can not

turn back. Players bowl in turn; but always from .

the middle of the line. Should a player’s turn to
bowl come when he is behind “B” he becomes
“it.” Caution: Do not ’bowl so hard that the game
becomes merely a matter of “chase the ball” for

the “O’s.”

Peg One Out. Set out the pegs in a line on the
ground (in grass, if possible), some three to five
feet apart. Use one less peg than the number of
players. Players line up from thirty to forty feet
away. On the word “go” the players race to the
pegs and try to seize one. The player left out is
retired from the game and one peg taken from
the row. Each time a player is left out a peg is
taken away as in “Going to Jerusalem.” The
game continues until only one player is left.

Although the game is a bit rough it is great
sport if kept under control. If you have a very
large group. divide it into smaller groups and play,
letting team champions compete in a final game
for hrst honors.

Play Peg Golf. Nine pegs, nine pins and num—
bered paper flags, golf or croquet balls, putters or
croquet mallets are required for this game. Place
the nine pegs ten to thirty feet apart on smooth
bare spots. Pin a numbered flag on the top of
each peg. Place the pegs in order as one might
find them on a golf course, leaving clear “fair—
ways” between holes, although hazards may be
set on either side of these clear areas. At a spot
not less than ten feet from the first peg make a
clear space for a “tee.” Make such a clear space
(“tee”) about three feet to the right or left of all
other pegs except number nine.

As many as four players may play, each taking
turns hitting his ball toward the peg ahead. The
player who lirst knocks down the peg (with few—
est shots) puts down I on his score card and
sets up the peg. The next to knock it down scores
2, third 3, and so on. In case of a tie, both take
the number while the next player takes the next

' higher number. Players do not start for the sec—

ond peg until all have completed the first “hole.”
~When a player is behind an obstacle placed on the
course, he moves his ball back from it counting
one hit before hitting the ball. The ball of another
player which blocks a striking player’s ball counts_
as an obstacle. A tournament may easily be or—
ganized for this game.

Grab the Peg. This game is similar to “Snatch”
in many ways. Players line up, standing shoulder
to shoulder, in two parallel teams facing each‘
other. The two teams are some forty feet apart.
Midway between the players is a three—foot circle
in which stands a peg. Players of one team count
011‘, each remembering his number. The other
team counts off beginning at the other end of the
line, so that the two “one’s” are at opposite ends.
The game leader (not a participant) calls a num—
ber and the two players, one from each line, who
have that number dash to the center of the lield;
each tries to snatch the peg and return with it to
his own team line without being tagged by his op—
ponent. If a player reaches his team untagged
with the peg he scores a point for his team. If
he is tagged, the opposing team scores. If a player
steps into the circle or knocks over a peg, he for—
feits a ‘point. Once a player touches the peg he
must take it. There may be no shoving or holding.
Ten points constitute a game.

Pegs in a Circle. Have players form a circle by
taking hands and moving backwards until arms
are extended. Players then drop hands, turn so
that they are facing outward and put their feet
together. Each stands a peg in front of himself.
“It” stands in the circle.

“It” moves about in the circle trying to tag a
player whose hand (or finger) is not on a peg.
(Players must bend over, not st00p, to touch the
peg.) “It” may also knock down an unprotected
peg. The owner of a knocked down peg or a

tagged player becomes “it.” This game is great
fun if played fast and fairly.

Peg and Ball Relay. Divide players into two or
more equal teams. Then divide each team into
two sections. Place the two divisions of each team
in file formation and about twenty feet apart.

. Between the ‘two divisions place a peg in a circle

(0).

TeamA . . . . . . . . ..O . . . . . . . . ..
TeamB . . . . . . . . ..O . . . . . . . . ..

(Continued on page 47)

The Feast of Ascending on High

ANY PAGES could well be ex-
M tracted from the Chinese

book of life experience by
nations considered more advanc-
ed and more civilized—especially
those concerning the use of leisure and the ways
in which high and low, rich and poor in the Orient,
enjoy their hours for play.

Leisure in China is truly re-creation. All the
arts and sciences, as well as social graces and phy-
sical activities, are called upon to occupy idle time.
During the months—moons, as they are called
there—preceding the festival known the length
and breadth of the land as the “Feast of Ascend-
ing on High,” all China thinks, plans, builds kites.
This day is the carnival of the wind——the cere-
mony of the kite.

Pioneer in so many inventions, the Chinese
should be given credit for the first primitive ma-
chine to conquer the air element. The creatures
they launch into the sky seem at home. The kites
of the Orient live as surely in the air as do our
modern airplanes.

Legends are told of the origin of kites— some-

sentimental, and others martial. The general be-
sieged in an ancient Chinese town by hordes of
Tarters from the north is said to have invented
the kite to communicate his distress to distant
allies, and to have laid the foundation of the wig—-
wag system of war communication at the same
time. After thousands of years the kite still holds
its place in the life of the race; old and young,
farmers and artists, coolies and mandarins, not
only fly kites but make them, decorate them and
on that day of days, the Feast of Ascending on
High, travel to the nearest high ground and send
aloft their kites.

Kites of All Types

Some of the Chinese kites
are rarely beautiful; some are
grotesque; all are fascinating.
Small kites of varied shape
soar aloft from children’s lin-
gers ; huge aerial monsters re-
quiring a dozen men to launch
and another crew to control the
flying ropes, make the air a
vivid, even a gaudy, Sight,

By MARESE ELIOT

Public Information Service

‘ W'orks Progress Administration
New York City

"Depressions might fade more quickly
if Occidentals would follow the Chi-
nese philosophy of kites. During the
winter the man who is worried makes
his kite, writes all his woes on its tail'
and on the day of the festival goes
to a hill and literally flies his troubles
away with the kite that he sends
out into the blue! He descends the
hill smiling and without fear; all
his troubles have been flown away!"

especially at the Festival. Kite
clubs for adults are as popular
there as tennis associations and
golf clubs are in America. Guilds
of workers and craftsmen often
associate themselves in the building and owner-
ship of huge kites, entering into keen rivalry in
races with high stakes as the reward of victory.

The kitemaker is not without honor in China.
His craft is a profession and the results of his
skill are often true “objéts d’art.” Dragon-flies a
hundred times the size of the originals glide in the
air on gauzy wings. Moths, beetles and butter-
flies sail on high ;'birds of brilliant plumage make
natural, kites; bats are huge and more frightening
than real ones. I '

These artist kitemakers are not content to use
merely natural denizens of the air. Fish are fa-
vored kites because they are bringers of good luck.
Imagination plays a part too. Dragc’ms with glis-
tening scales, fifty feet long, controlled by ropes
in the hands of twenty men, can be seen in the
air. The eyes of the dragOn rove and smoke bil-
lows out of the nostrils by virtue of cunningly
contrived wind power apparatus.

One of the most curious kites is the popularity
one. Actors are particularly favored by this form
of adulation. Dressed in costumes of their most
famous roles stage favorites float in the air, the kite
string held by devoted admirers. An Oriental form
of stagedoor worship! Mei Lan Fang, who a few
seasons ago brought his ancient art to American
theaters, has for many years been honored on fes-
tival days.

Kite flying is one of the most thrilling sports of
childhood that need not be dropped when ma—
turity is reached. From the craft activity that
is fostered by the actual making of the kite in the
home to the physical recrea-
tion in the open with its manip-
ulation, there is much to rec-
ommend this sport as leisure
time activity.

There are many simple types
of kites which may be made in
the home. A boy is apt to pre—
fer the tailed type. Most of
the early ones were of that
variety. The famous kite with

‘ 15

16 THE FEAST OF ASCENDING ON HIGH,

which Franklin drew electricity from the thunder
clouds had a tail, and for the novice at the art of
flying them, the tailed kite type is the easiest to
manipulate.

The square kite is the one which can be most
easily manufactured in the home by the amateur.
Because it requires the least effort, is inexpensive
to make and very interesting to operate, it has
been chosen as the type to be described in this
article.

How to Make a Square Type

Wood is used for the framework upon which
the square kite is built. In selecting the wood the
craftsman should make sure that it is well sea-
soned and true, that it lies parallel to a flat sur-
face and that there is no buckling along the length.

Take two sticks of equal length. Fifty inches
makes a kite of excellent size for the beginner.
These sticks should be square with a diameter of
three-eighths of an inch. Larger kites will need
heavier wood of largerdiameters. Having made
sure that the selected sticks are seasoned wood
and true along their entire length, look for the
grain and select sticks with a smooth and even
grain. Sandpaper the sides of each stick until they
are smooth and velvety to the touch.

These two sticks form the foundation of the
kite. The skeleton is made by balancing them ex-
actly across each other so that they form a true
right-angled cross at the center. Place the sticks
on a flat surface. Then you are prepared for the
second operation in making the kite.

Winding the Sticks. This is the winding or bind—
ing of the skeleton sticks together at the center
where they meet in a right-angled cross. The cross
is lashed together with a winding of string. The
greatest care should be taken with this lashing to
see that it is even and close. However, it must not
be too tight or the sticks will buckle at the center.
Emphasis should be laid upon the importance of
doing kite craft upon a large, flat surface so that
buckling will be instantly detected.

In winding kite sticks together the string should
be twined evenly and diagonally over both sticks
in one operation, and then the process should be
reversed. The return windings are made between
the sticks and around the other windings. A
smooth firm cord, strong rather than heavy, is the
best type to use. The craftsman will speedily
learn the amount of winding necessary to anchor
the sticks in a perfect square at the center without
overburdening the kite with bulk. When the cen-

ter is firm, tie the ends neatly and slip them under
the winding.

A protective coating is now given to the entire
winding at the center. Either glue or shellac may
be used for this. The coat should be light, cover-
ing all the strings of the winding. If the first light
coat does not seem to be sufficient-to produce a
firm center, another coat should be added after
the first one has dried. If glue is used, the sticks
should be dried under a weight. One caution is
pertinent here; no tacks or nails ever should be
used to hold the sticks together at the center. They
would set up a stress in the framework and prove
to be the weak spot that cracks in the wind when
the kite is in operation.

To make a true center for the kite is the heart
of the craftsman’s job, and the quality and per-
formance of the finished kite can be measured by
the precision of its center. It must be a true and
right—angled cross at this point, well braced by
lashing, or the kite will not fly smoothly. If the
sticks slip during the process of winding, the wire
or cord must be unwound and the winding begun
anew. After some trials the craftsman will be able
to hold this vital center of the frame firm and true
as he winds. This is the most important part of
the kite to consider. Unless it is perfect the flight
of the kite will be neither accurate nor sustained.

The best material to use for the lashing is heavy
linen thread; some people use fishing tackle which
is flne and strong: Either one makes a firm center
that is flat and not bulky.

Outlining the Shape. The next step in the kite—
building process is to outline the shape of the fin-
ished article. This outline is made with wire or
string. Any hard twisted cotton cord is suitable
for the purpose. This outline should be light, yet
strong and wind-resistant. A fine gauge steel wire
makes an excellent outline. Piano wire is also
very good for the purpose. In.making the outline
attach one end of the wire to a tip of the framing
stick with a slip loop. Keeping the frame flat on
a level surface, carry the end of the wire from one
point to the next until the circumference of the
kite has been described. Be certain that the wire,
while not loose, is never so taut that it buckles the
frame; it should lie very flat and parallel to the

- table top on which you are working. -

The kite is now ready for the covering.

Covering the Kite.. Many materials can be used
for this purpose. There are four reasons why
paper is to be preferred: I. Its lack of weight;

THE FEAST 01: ASCENDING ON HIGH 17

2. its surface impermeability to air; 3. its low cost,
and finally the ease with which it is applied to the
frame. Another advantage of paper is the fact
that the finished kite can be more easily and suc-
cessfully repaired if the paper cover becomes torn
by wind or hard usage.

Tissue paper such as is used for wrappings
makes an excellent kite cover. The softness and
pliability that characterize the good grade tissue
lend themselves to kite construction. For all small
kites it is a preferred material. The wide range
of color in which tissue can be purchased also
adds to its advantage; beauty is an angle to be
considered in kite craft. Many of the Chinese and
Japanese decorative papers make exquisite as well
as strong and durable kite covers.

The choice of material to use, however, holds a
definite relation to the size of the kite being con—
structed. The larger the dimensions of the frame,
the stronger and heavier the cover must be. The
ratio of paper strength must be maintained as the
length of the kite arms increases. For larger kites,
rice, manila or large sheets of bond paper may be
employed to advantage. “rapping paper from
the corner store is not to be despised; it is used
very often in«the making of kites at home.

For large kites and for those to be used where
winds are high and strong, fabric should be sub-
stituted for paper. Though more durable, fabric
is not applied to the frame with the same ease,
nor is it so easily repaired when it is torn or
ripped.

More exactness and care must be used by the
kite craftsman in using fabric as a cover. Certain
new problems are presented. One is the perme-
ability of fabric to air. In choosing the fabric
lightness of weight and closeness of weave are es-
sential. Permeability to air is decreased by paint-
ing the flying surface. Thin varnish or shellac
may be used, or rubber cement will fill the crevices
between the threads of warp and woof. The best
material, however, for painting the surface of
fabric kites is the so-called “dope” used by air-
plane factories to coat the wings of planes. The
application of liquids for protection to fabric
causes shrinkage, and this must be allowed for in
covering the frame with fabric. More allowance
must be made where airplane dope is used than
the other liquid protectors.

After the cover material has been selected, be it
paper or fabric, it should be placed flat on the
work table. Lay the frame of the kite on the ma—
terial and draw the pattern. \Vhen this is cut an
inch should be allowed on all four sides. Fold this
margin over the wire edge of the kite frame, being
sure that there is no pull at any place. Glue down
the margin, using no more glue than is absolutely
necessary to control the edge. '

W hen the margin has been folded and glued,
the kite surface should be Hat and smooth. It
should appear taut but not tense. It must never
be tight enough to buckle the frame out of shape.
Keep the fact clearly in mind that the surface of
the kite is to be presented to the wind; the Hatter

i n, ,h _,.... Ar .. ‘ as “Maria...” AA. .1.

Often an accident ends the kite's

career' but to the boy who makes
his kites this is a minor tragedy

 

18 THE FEAST OF ASCENDING ON HIGH

the surface the easier the kite will ride the air, as
any unevenness slows up the flight. Just as the
sticks must be evenly balanced to produce balanced
flight, so must the covering of both the kite sur—
faces, upper and lower, be smooth and evenly dis-
tributed if a perfect flying machine is to result.

, The Bridle. The main body of the kite having
been made, the next problem is the arrangement
to control the machine while in the air. The
method used is an attachment called a “bridle”
which is string atfached to the kite frame. The
bridle is the steering gear of the kite flying
machine.

The proper placing of the bridle is of utmost
importance. If the steering gear of an airplane
were incorrectly installed the pilot would lose con-
trol of his machine in the air. A similar result
happens when the bridle is incorrectly placed in a
kite. The laws of balance, of weight and of gra—
vity must all be considered in installing the steer-
ing gear.

For the square kite the bridle is composed of
two strings. Each string is exactly half as long
as the circumference of the kite. These strings
are attached at opposite corners of the frame.
They are then brought together at that point above
the surface of the kite which is exactly one—third
the distance from the point of the kite measured
along the center line. The string of the kite is
attached to the bridle where the two parts meet.
The string may be as many feet or hundreds of
feet as the maker chooses. For flying, a reel is
recommended; this aids in controlling the kite
from the ground, preventing snarls and adding
to the ease in paying out and reeling in the line.

One of the most important features of square
kites is the tail. Such a tail must not add much
weight. The scientific reason for its addition is
the added air resistance it gives the kite. This air
resistance -— so-called surface friction —— provides
the balance of the kite.

The Tail. The making of the tail is simple.
Pieces of paper about four inches by six are fold-
ed into accordion pleats and. tied a foot apart,
along a string. Such a tail is excellent to add to
the valuable surface-friction. When the papers
have been attached to the central string, fan out
the ends of the paper as one would a bow tie. The

Thirty feet of tail is a fair average for a start.

More tail can always be added. In flying, the less
tail, the more sport.

Other types of tail can be used. There is one
style which consists of paper cups attached to the
tail string; these were very much in demand dur-
ing the war. The small American boy seems to
prefer a tail made of paper bags. The one of
folded, tied and fanned out papers is the easiest
to make and will prove the most consistent in per—
formance. There is also the possibility of making
the kite tail more attractive through the use of
colored papers of different shades.

The types of kites that may be made by the
home craftsman are so many that they cannot be
listed in a short article. Even the profile figure
kites so much favored by the Oriental nations may
be constructed by any one with even a slight talent
for drawing in outline.

Of course a kite may be bought. Kite manu-
facturers abound in the land. But what boy—or
even grown man who is but a boy at heart—can a
purchased kite, even though one of the glittering
Oriental ones, hold the place in his interests and
affections with one of his own creation? \Vith
every pain he takes in construction, with every
effort he bends to balance the one he “crafts,”
with every thought he directs toward perfecting
its flight and its decoration, the kite craftsman is
adding to that store of knowledge which will aid
him in living life and in using leisure with satis-
faction-utrue recreation.

Since the days of Benjamin Franklin conditions
have changed greatly. Our citigs and urban areas
have required the erection {of many cables, high
tension wires and transformers, and these are
potential sources of danger for kite flyers. The
good kite flyer, like the good aviator and the
careful motorist, observes safety rules. Here are
a few of them:

\Nire should never be used as kite string, tail
connection, bridle. or to lash sticks together. Nor
should metal of any description be used in kite
construction. If used, serious injury may follow
if the kite becomes entangled in electric power
lines. Lash sticks together with strings; do not
use nails, tacks or brads.

It is much safer not to fly kites immediately
over or near electric wires, and no attempt should
be made to remove a kite caught over electric
wires, or in trees near them. Never climb a pole
to remove a kite or string.

For the Price

ola

Single Movie!

A community mobilizes its
Forces and in no uncertain
tones declares for a year-
round recreation program!

OR THE PRICE of a movie to
F the average home owner in

the city, Decatur, Illinois,
now has a tax-supported recrea-
tion system. Voted on favorably
by the citizens on October I 3,
{936, the new tax climaxed an
eventful year in the recreation program of
Decatur.

Early in the year Charles K. lrightbill, for-
merly associated with the Recreation Department
of Reading, Pennsylvania. became Superintend-
ent of Public Recreation in Decatur where recrea-
tion is sponsored by the Community Recreation
Association, a group of private individuals. One
of the new Superintendent's first undertakings
was to make the community conscious that the
recreation program should be on a year-round
basis and not be merely a summer playground pro-
ject. To this end a large poster was made depict-
ing the various parts of a community recreation
program and bearing the words “Your Commu-
nity Association offers the entire family a more
abundant life through its playgrounds, gymnasi-
ums and community centers.” This poster was
placed in the City Hall, public library, schools,
churches and down town stores so that many peo-
ple might see it and learn to think of recreation as
year-round in scope. :lut posters alone could not
sell a year-round program. The existing program
was expanded so that the service might, through
wider participation. convince more of the need
and value of such a program. Rapid expanse on
a budget‘of $7,306 a year was difficult and the

 

Courtesy Cnmmrmity Recreation As.s'ncr'ati'on, Decatur, Illinois

\VPA made possible nearly 85 per cent of the pro-
gram for the year of demonstrating the possibili-
ties nf city-wide, year-round recreation.

The Association Reports the Year’s Progress

The annual report of the Community Recrea1
tion Association shows the recreation program
expanded to twenty playgrounds, seven commu-
nity centers and ten gymnasiums open winter and
fall, a summer day camp, a picnic service, an in-
formation and bulletin service and twelve new
parent and playground associations. There was a
participation of nearly three—quarters of a million
in the various recreational activities for the year.

High spots on the program included a band
concert on each playground once during the sea-
son, weekly Tuesday night folk dance festivals,
playground leagues and tournaments in games and
sports, a “Come and See Day” for parents, a
story—telling contest, a parade of children and the
grotesque Mardi Gras heads and lighted floats and
lanterns they had made, and a playground parade
of 3000 children and adults. The Municipal Play-
ers were encouraged and assisted and other drama

groups helped. Glee clubs, rhythm bands and or-

chestras were formed. A'two-week training insti—
tute for leaders preceded the expansion of the

19

20 FOR THE PRICE OF A SINGLE MOVIE!

program and another of two weeks duration was
held before the opening of the summer play-
grounds.

The Recreation Referendum Campaign

80 successful was the program, coupled with

carefully planned and organized publicity starting '

with the posters emphasizing year-round recrea-
tion, that in October 1936 the people voted a tax
for recreation of a minimum of two-thirds of a
mill on each dollar of assessed valuation on prop-
erty within the city limits. This tax will provide
an income of approximately $18,000 a year at a
'cost of 39 cents or less than the price of a movie
to the average home owner. In April 1935 the
tax had been defeated ; in October 1936 it was ap-
proved by more than a two to one vote.

The carefully worked out campaign acc0m~
panying the program and interpreting it did much
to win the day for recreation in the Decatur elec-
tion. It was planned to carry the need for ade-
quate recreation to the people in a number of
ways in an attempt to reach the very largest num~
ber of people possible. During the month before
the election date especially concentrated efforts
were made.

Newspapers ran daily stories during the month
before the election. Public endorsements of rec-
reation were made in the paper by such men as
.the Mayor, Chief of Police, President of the
Ministerial Association, President of the Com-
munity Chest Board and by the American Federa—
tion of Labor. Articles on recreation appeared on
the sports. editorial and society pages, and com-
mercial firms included statements of approval of
recreation in their paid advertisements.

\Vritten appeals other than newspaper stories
were many and varied. Letters of approval of
tax-supported recreation went out over the signa-
ture of prominent men to miniSters, picnic or-

ganizations, athletic teams and restaurant owners..

Signs and posters were provided for streets, ser-
vice stations, theaters (on the screen) and restau—
rants. Children carried posters on the street read-
ing “Neglect in 1936 means
trouble in 1946” and “Recrea-
tion isn’t a frill; it’s part of
us.” Handbills were distribut-
ed with the following titles:
“Can we let this happen?”
“\Velfare of School Children”
and “Why Business Men
Should Support Recreation.”

Any community planning to conduct
a referendum campaign for a year-
round recreation program would do
well to take a leaf. from the experi—
ence of Decatur' Illinois. where a
plan worked out with the greatest
care and put into operation through
the cooperation of many community
groups. had a gratifying outcome.

School children carried home mimeographed notes
to parents and wrote essays on recreation. Auto—
mobiles appeared with posters and yellow stickers
“Vote Yes Playgrounds Tuesday, October I 3” on
the spare tires. Even the morning milk bottles—
14,000 of them—-—carried the appeal on a paper
cuff “Milk and Exercise=Health. Vote Yes To-
day for Playgrounds.”

The message was carried by word of mouth
through talks or speeches. During the month pre-
ceding election day talks were given in every pub-
lic and parochial school in the city, in every
church, to twenty large industries and stores in
the city and to forty-live organizations and gov-
erning bodies. ,Five radio interviews were ar-
ranged with the heads of important departments
and organizations including the President of the
Junior Association of Commerce, the Mayor, the
Commissioner of Public Health and Safety, the
Chief of Police and the President of the City
P. T.'A. Council. A large number of pe0ple were
reached by special amplified messages to large
groups attending play nights, softball champion-
ship and high school football games.

A house-to-house canvass using 500 block
workers and 37 precinct captains was made of
every home in the city. Every square block was
covered by a person living in it. Precinct captains
were officers of the P. T. A., members of neigh-
borhood recreation clubs and prominent citizens.
Block workers also were enlisted from P. T. A.
groups and neighborhood clubs. Each voter was
urged to support the recreation tax and confiden-
tial reaction sheets were turned in by each worker.

Besides the barrage of written and oral ma-
terial, extensive exhibits were prepared giving a
picture of various aspects of the program. They
were set up in down town store windows a week
before election and remained all the week. Ex—
hibits included handcraft activities, model air—
planes and boats. music and drama and athletics.
One exhibit showed a miniature baseball diamond
and a jail. Figures showed the high costs of
crime and the low cost of recreation. Another
exhibit consisted of a puppet
show in a store window giving
sidelights of recreation with
the help of a loud speaking
system. Puppets did folk
dances, tumbling, played in
swings and with balls, and be-
tween acts carried cards across

(Continued on page 48)

‘ When

Gypsies
Come to

Children gather

lrom near and lar
to listen to the
thrilling tales ot
magic and romance

" m: le’snas ARE COMING, the Gypsies are
T coming.” With this joyous cry all regular
activities of the playground stopped and the
children, tall and small, rushed to greet the band
of Gypsies coming down the street in their rickety
old black cart drawn by the most beautiful painted
horse you ever saw! \Vas it the horse that first
attracted the. children? Perhaps. 0r possibly the
Romany tunes liddled by the little Gypsy maiden
who played as she rode, dangling her pretty feet
over the back of the cart. liut in all probability
the ones who . first gave the warning of the
Gypsies’ approach had been watching for them
eagerly and had spied the cart when it was still a
black speck in the distance.

For this was no regular Gypsy band, no band
of rovers, but a group of friendly Gypsies who
brought joys untold to the boys and girls of the
playgrounds of Reading, Pennsylvania, through
their stories of magic and romance. Indeed, they
were no real Gypsies at all! And among them was
the Recreation Department's itinerate story-teller,
who visited the playgrounds twice during the sea-
son, spending about an hour on each lot telling
stories chosen especially for the particular group.

How It Grew

ln former years, the Reading Story League co-
operated with the Department of Public Recrea-

 

By KATHRYN C. KEPPELMAN

Supervisor of Dramatics and Story-telling
Department of Public Recreation

Reading, Pennsylvania

tion by furnishing judges for the annual story
contests, and by sending volunteers from their
group to the playgrounds to tell stories to the
children. \Vhile the Department appreciated the
cooperation and the children benelited by it, a
definite need for an itinerate story-teller was felt;
a need for someone with training and experience,
someone who understood boys and girls, who
could give practical help to the leaders.

An appeal to the story league resulted in its“
hnancial cooperation to the extent of half the
salary of a professional story-teller, the other half,
together with the cost of transportation, to be paid
by the Department. Mrs. E. K. Shollenberger,
one of the members of the League who is widely
known for her ability and charm in story-telling,
was chosen for the work.

Realizing the appeal of costume, it was decided
that the story-teller should dress in Gypsy attire.
At hrst she traveled a-foot, making her trips
alone. .Later, her daughter, an accomplished vio-

21

22 IVHEN GYPSIES COME TO READING

linist, went with her to fiddle Romany tunes and
to teach the children. Gypsy songs. Her little
niece and nephew, visiting from the Belgian
Congo, thought they, too, would like to be Gypsies,
so they donned bandanna and sash, and lo, a real
Gypsy Band had evolved! Usually a stray dog or

two tagged along and added to the atmosphere, -

and on one occasion a live parrot added his bit to
the story-telling.

But what real Gypsies travel a-foot these days?
Before long, the town was combed for an old cart
and horse, and from that time on the story-teller
traveled in true Gypsy style—-—in an old black cart
with a fine old horse and a quaint old driver who
fitted perfectly into the picture. a

In connection with her story—telling program,
Mrs. Shollenberger made herself available for
conferences with the leaders on questions perti-
nent to the work, and acted as hostess at the city-
wide story-telling contest.

Last Summer on the Playgrounds

However, the Gypsy was merely part of the
story-telling program used on the playgrounds of
Reading this year. In fact, for the past few years,
story-telling has been one of the major activities.
Time is allowed on the program of the annual
Institute for leaders for the discussion of the art
and science of telling stories. Leaders are en-'
couraged to conduct a daily story hour. Biblio-
graphies of stories are prepared and distributed
to the leaders. The Public Library cooperates in
placing on reserve for the special use of the rec-
reation workers, books of stories and story-telling.
One of the chief duties of the Supervisor of Dra-
matics is to plan and conduct a story-telling pro-
gram to be ,used throughout the season—this pro-
gram culminating in a city-wide story contest.

The program of story-telling for 1936 began
with three Institute lectures given by Mrs. A. L.
M acKinnon, then President of the National Story
League. Since the general plan for the year in—
cluded a definite attempt to appeal to boys, one
lecture was devoted entirely to stories for boys.
The other two were on story selection and story—
telling methods. Further, each leader was given
opportunity to tell a story to Mrs. MacKinnon,
who gave constructive criticism and practical help
to the individuals.

A story hour was part of the daily schedule, the
time of the day chosen for this being left to the
discretion of the leader. In some cases, a twilight
story hour proved most successful, while in others

the afternoon 01' morning was more satisfactory

for the activity.
Story games and dramatizations of stories were

very popular, especially with the little tots. Music
was incorporated into the story hour on many
grounds, the boys and girls entering heartily into
the motion songs and stunt songs. Music and
stories seem a logical combination and were there-
fore encouraged.

It was the experience of most leaders that at
first the children preferred to listen to the stories
rather than tell them. Before long, however, the
boys as well as girls enjoyed participating, and by
the time scheduled for the contests there was
great enthusiasm for story—telling among the chil-
dren. In some cases, where there was little guid-
ance or direction on the part of the leader, the
story hour became an experience meeting; but on
the whole, where leaders themselves were inter-
ested, stories were well chosen and well told. It
was a joy, on the hottest of afternoons, to come
upon groups of girls and boys “swapping yarns”
and telling stories to each other. Story-telling is
an activity that lends itself to playground situa-
tions, no matter what the weather may be.

At the annual “Play Day” when boys and girls
of various playgrounds gathered for cooperative
play, story-telling was one of the featured activi-
ties. It proved a most delightful interlude between
active games and strenuous contests.

The Story Contest

The story contest has, for several years, been
one of the chief events in the city—wide program.
At a scheduled time, local contests, judged by
leaders and members of the playground associa-
tions, are held on every ground. Any girl or boy
is eligible for entrance in the local contest. This is
usually made a gala affair in order to attract the
children, whether or not they intend to tell stories.
For frequently those listening to others will be
inspired and will prove very excellent. story-tellers.

The contestants are divided into three age
groups:

Those up to 9 years of. age
Those from 9 to 12
Those from 12 to 16

The leaders may give as much help as they see

I lit to any contestant, that is, in story selection and

hints as to delivery, posture while telling stories,
memorization. Of course, no hints are given dur-
ing the contest.

(Continued on page 48)

Play for Handicapped Children

ITtl‘ING TOGETHER the
F parts of a picture
puzzle may not seem
on the face of it to have
a definite curative value
for a child who is hos—
pitalized because of a
fractured leg, a stubborn
case of eczema, or any
other of the many ills.
However, with the plac—
ing of each small part of
the puzzle in its‘ correct
place comes a concentra-
tion and, in the end, a
satisfaction at h a v i n g
completed his task that
leads definitely toward a
healthful mental hygiene
and an ability to solve other and more weighty
problems. There may come a time in the working
of the puzzle when the pieces seem a jumble, and
in that case-"a teacher in the Special Education
Department is willing, anxious and able to give
just the needed amount of help. The problem
must be sufficiently difficult to challenge the inter-
est of the patient but not too difficult for him to
grasp.

So it might be said that the Special Education
Department of the University of Michigan Hos-
pital is composed of teachers whose function it is
to aid and assist the child toward his definite ob-
jective which he has set for himself, and which
he recognizes as his own problem. The entire pro—
gram might be designated as the Activity Pro-
gram for children, for it is our aim to correlate
our work with the Activity Program for normal
children in the public schools and to supplement
the actual Academic program offered by the Hos-
pital School.

The Objectives

As in the public schools, our goal is modified to
fit the needs of the type of child with whom we
come in contact. The child grows in the very fac-
ing of difficulty; much more in solution and ac—
complishment. In other words, we attempt:

I. To 'give the handicapped child confidence in
himself and a sympathetic understanding of other

 

By EDITH WHEELER

Supervisor of Special Education
University of Michigan Hospital

human beings in order to lead a well-balanced en-
joyable life.

2. To approximate the normal in so far as pos-
sible, that the child may not lose contact with the
normal home, school, and social environment dur-
ing the abnormal period of hospitalization. There
may be abnormalities in the child’s own life which
he does or does not face or realize. Such growth
as he may make may be in a very circumscribed

area.

3. To continue in so far as possible, the special
activities of the public schools; that is, nature
study, children’s literature, rhythms, music, games,
handwork, and through these subjects to broaden
the child's horizon so that his own small world
may include many interests in spite of his
handicap.

4. To provide a program for the hospitalized
child which will lessen the mental discomfort
accompanying illness and to make the child’s
period of hospitalization as profitable and as
pleasant as possible. In other words, to assist in
obtaining a healthful mental hygiene.

Children are introduced to the program as soon
as they have received permission from the doctor.

23

\f

\l

24 PLAY FOR HANDICAPPED CHILDREN

Every child is enrolled whether he is in the hos—
pital for one day or over a period of years. Last
year 2,667 children were enrolled in the Special
Activities program, of these 1,838 were here from
one to ten days, the balance ranging from ten days
to two hundred ten days during the year. Over
half of these children were below seven years of
age while most of the balance were between seven
and thirteen, a few over thirteen.

Leadership

The present staff is composed of licensed teach-
ers who are residents of the state continuing their
professional development and contacts through a
definite program of reports, visiting days in local
schools, analyses of situations, and exchange dis—
cussions. This is a special field in education which
requires a great deal from the individual, but she
in turn makes a definite contribution to the child
in particular and the field in general not widely
recognized to date except very conservatively, as
would be expected. A definition of the problem
has been made and certainly we have made prog—
ress on the road toward solution, but the problem
is never solved jiizally for the situation changes as
soon as conclusions have been reached.

The teachers, as those of the Hospital School,
are financed through the Michigan Crippled Chil—
dren’s Commission, and two private organizations
—the Galen Medical Society and the Kiwanis
Clubs. Other assistance is given by many organi—
zations and private individuals.

Services

All children who have received permission to
go to the roof playroom and playground or the
Galen Shop are taken there either in beds and
wheelchairs, or walking. The roof program is
carried on morning and afternoon for all children,
girls or boys up to I 3 years of age, and is spon-
sored by the Kiwanis Clubs of Michigan who pro—
vide one and one—half time recreation teachers to
carry out the program discussed later. Further
advantages of this roof program are that the chil—
dren receive the benefits of a complete change of
atmosphere, sunlight and fresh air in addition to
their educational program. During the summer
months recreation is emphasized, but during the
winter months we find a well rounded project
planned which includes stories, handwork, nature
study and music, following the unit study idea.

The Galen Shop is a general workshop for boys
sponsored by the Galen Medical Society, an hon—

orary medical organization composed of Junior
and Senior medical students. In this shop many
boys and a few girls learn to make useful and
attractive articles from scrap materials, trying out
many activities more fruitful in experience than
results. The majority of children coming to the
shop are below twelve years of age and have had
no previous experience in this type of work, there-
fore a most elementary program of wood, metal,
cement, and electrical work is planned. For the
boys who have had experience new materials are
provided and more complicated projects planned
and executed. A child is quite free to select and
follow through his own interests with quite gen-
eral guidance.

During the time when some children are on the

h roof, other teachers on the wards teach the chil—

dren who cannot leave the sixth Hoor. Children

' from floors other than sixth either go to the roof

or are taken care of by Occupational Therapy.

Similar services are offered at Convalescent
Hospital and South Department when and if
needed. Convalescent Hospital offers a service on
the wards, in the playroom and on the outdoor
playground. The children in this unit are more
active and have more freedom so that a varied
program may be planned for them similar to that
of the public schools.

Besides these regular activities there are special
programs which will be discussed later.

The General Program

The general program may be discussed under
special headings:

Individual Occupation. It is sometimes necessary
to find an individual occupation for a boy or girl
who is so handicapped that he is not able to par-
ticipate in group activity. This was true in the
case of Mike, age 10, a chronic osteomyelitis case.
Mike is deaf and cannot enjoy stories or games.
His interest was aroused by a new erector set in
a shiny red box. He was so intrigued by his work
that he asked to keep the set over night and in his
spare time he built an original design of a wreck-
ing truck. His truck was so clever that it was

entered in the Gilbert contest for original designs
built with erector sets.

Nature Study. Nature study has been introduced

_ to our children by the live material displayed in

the playrooms and in the wards. For the younger
children we have a group study program which in—
cludes observation, discussion, illustrative art
work and reading. It is our object to create in

PLAY FOR HANDICAPPED CHILDREN 25

these children the ability to observe the wonders
and beauties of the living, growing world about
them; in other words, a backdoor nature study.
It is interesting to note that only two children out
of an entire ward knew what horse chestnuts were

and one recognized milkweed.

Music. The music program is carried on in the
playrooms and wards. Our teachers have empha-
sized rhythm games with each child taking part
and rhythm bands for which we have made many
of our instruments, the singing of new and fa-
miliar songs, and also the appreciation of music
in the study of some of the composers, the operas,
and the music itself. As a conclusion for one
period of study, the rhythm band gave a concert
in May for which the children made new drums,
badges and caps.

Games— Individual and Group. In the play-
grounds and in the playrooms we are teaching
games and plays that children learn in school so
that these handicapped children may iind out for
themselves in what games they may participate
without feeling the embarrassment of a disability.
We have also taught games which are played on
the sidewalk and in the home yard. Some games
have used such homey materials as cardboard
boxes, clothespins, coffee cans, jar rubbers, etc.,
so that the children may find these things at home
and by knowing the possibilities may Help to solve
the toy problem in many families.

- We use many individual and couple quiet games
for both bed and ambulatory children such as
checkers, dominoes, spinning games, ball games,
and balls. Many shy, homesick children make
friends and become leaders with the help of toys
and games. It also helps to teach these children

the use of leisure time during long periods of
convalescence.

Children's Literature and English. There are vari-
ous methods by which
we have introduced our
Children’s Literature
plan. In the playrooms
we have inaugurated a
story hour twice each
day. Whenever it is pos-
sible the children are
grouped according to
age level. Sometimes the
younger ‘children are
read to by the older
ones. The teachers read

 

to individual children as often as possible when
the time allows. g

Through picture study and projects we carry
on conversation periods the outgrowth of which
is often original stories and poetry. The drama-
tization of original or familiar stories adds to the
children’s knowledge and enjoyment. This has
been worked out with a delicacy of feeling by our
teachers who sometimes must enact various parts
themselves while bed children speak the lines.
Puppets, marionettes, story figures, and minia-
ture theaters increase interest in children’s stories.

\Vith some children we leave books so that they
may read when they find leisure time.

Art Work. In conjunction with our projects, we
carry on all types of industrial and fine arts. Free
art is emphasized in painting, drawing, and color-
ing. This is done through finger painting, easel
painting and drawing, coloring on paper and cloth.
For modeling we use clay, soap, paraflin, wall
paper cleaner and soft wood.

No craft work is taught for the sake of the per-
fect product in itself but rather as the child’s own
form of expression. Woodworking is carried on
for the most part in the Galen Shop. Sewing and
weaving are also used as a medium of expression
in both individual and group projects. Paper con-
struction, cutting, pasting and all forms of ele-
mentary art work such as are carried on in the
public schools are given these children in con-
junction with their project and academic work.

For a small group of special students one
teacher is giving a course in Fine Arts for which
some of the students are receiving high school
credit.

Free Play. Sand tables, the pool, and housekeep~
ing equipment have aided us materially in the fur-—
thering of free and dramatic play by these handi—
capped children.
Through them they have-
kept in contact with the
outside world w h i ch
soon fades in their
memories after month
of hospitalization. Many
construction toys such
as erector sets, tinker-
toys, building sets, pre-_ A
school peg boards, tow;
ers and the like have-
made it possible for

26 PLAY FOR HANDICAPPED CHILDREN

these children to choose their own plaything.

The vehicles on the roof and the playground
have caused some difficulty and the traffic prob-
lem became acute in several instances. The boys
handled this themselves by signing up for vehi-
cles, issuing driver’s licenses, appointment of a
traffic cop and taking into court the unruly
drivers. It is a gala day for everyone when a boy
tries out his new artificial foot and finds that he,
too, can ride a tricycle.

The Project Plan

Practically, our program is very definitely out-
lined. The first of each month the workers on the
various units plan projects which will fit the needs
of the individual child as well as those of the
group. The project must be so designed that the
child who comes into the hospital after the pro-
ject has been launched will feel an integral part
of the activity, and the child who leaves will feel
that he has gained from having been included in
this program. It must not only provide an occu-
pation for the long days of hospitalization, but
must also give actual knowledge and act as a
stimulus for further study,

Stafford H.—-—, age 5, was unable to use his
hands but started beginning reading with us by
dictating a group of poems to the teacher and
learning to read them. He became a leader in the
group as he was included in each project to help
with suggestions and plans. Later we discovered
from his home school that the shy child had be-
come a leader there also. Upon his return to the
hospital he brought us many new and interesting
songs which he taught the children here.

Albert, age I 3,had outgrown the group and was
having difficulty adjusting himself. He organized
the police department to take care of trach regu-
lations in the group. As Chief of Police he learned
to issue orders, to use his own judgment, to em-
ploy self—control, and to handle other people. It
was distinctly a case of the development of social
intelligence. '

If a child becomes interested in some phase of
the monthly project he may go on with this as an
individual study. This is exemplified by a boy of
twelve who became intrigued by the study of
astronomy, and of stars in particular, as an out-
growth of the study of the shape of the stars on
the kite he was making. The group was studying
the toys of the children of Holland, and this one
boy wanted stars of “real shape” on his kite. This

led to the arousing of interest, the seeking for in-
formation, and the further study of the planets.

Extra Services

Besides‘ the regular service, for the Youth
Group last year we offered a short course in pre-
vocational education which included instruction in
watch repairing. This course was given by an
expert in watch repairing who gave a bird’s-eye
view of the inside of a watch as well as the skills
needed by a watchmaker. It was an interesting
and worthwhile experiment. '

During the winter months, a movie service is
offered to many patients and special holidays are
celebrated with emphasis placed on Christmas. At
this time each patient receives a remembrance with
well filled Christmas stockings for the children.

The hospital now boasts of two Scout troops,
one at Convalescent and one at Main Hospital.
This represents an attempt to link the patients of
the hospital with outSide life. While they are here
they are given the opportunity to continue in some
degree their Scouting activities, or if they have
never participated in a Scouting program, an at-
tempt is made to point out to the handicapped boy

the various phases of Scouting in which he can
participate.

Thus it may be pointed out that the function of
the Special Education Department of University
Hospital is' twofold—that of the home and
that of the school. As the small child playing,
in the home is building up a socially useful
personality, and as he carries to his school
work the same serious attitude which he has de-
veloped through his play at home, so we continue

life, and his adjustment to the social situations in
which he is and will be involved. The play of the

' child is the preparation for good citizenship in the

developing of patriotism, loyalty, fair play, which
are learned and relearned by the adult according
to his training. It is throngh play that we are
helping these handicapped children to continue
their adjustment to life which may be far more

difficult than that of the normal child. The handi-

capped child is forced to make a complicated ad-
justment which includes not only the mental, me-

chanical and personality development but also the
adaptation to his own handicap.

(Continued on page 51)

Experience in Citizenship

Camp Fire Girls find out for themselves what rec-
reational opportunities are being provided for
them and for other young people in their communi-
ties, and make suggestions on what is needed.

HE SCENE is a dinner attended
by the mayor and three mem-
bers of the City Council. The
hostesses are eighteen Camp Fire
Girls, average age—seventeen;

members of Towanka, the club of the older Camp

Fire Girls in Reading, Pennsylvania.

There were sixty-live guests at this dinner,
among them the head of the recreation depart-
ment, the president of the school board, the head
of the community chest, and other members of
these organizations, library officials, the editor of
the newspaper, the curator of the museum, repre—
sentatives of service clubs. members of the Camp
Fire Girls Local Council, and representative busi-
ness men andeomen. These guests not only hon—
ored the occasion with their presence, but with
true community spirit they paid for their own
dinners!

\Vhy were they there? To hear the reports of
the girls who had been making a survey of the
recreational opportunities of the town, and their
recommendations as to what was needed.

The president of the Local Council of Camp
Fire Girls introduced the president of Towanka
and from then on the meeting was in the hands of
the girls. The girl president explained that the
girls had been looking for' the answer to the ques-
tion “What does my community do for me in the
way of recreation?” Six“ committees had been at
work on schools, playgrounds and recreational
centers, parks, libraries, museums, and special pro—
jects. The chairman of each committee then made
her report. She gave information
about the recreational opportuni-
ties in the area her committee had
investigated, whom they served,
who paid for them, how they were
managed, who had been responsible lee.
for their establishment and de-
velopment. She concluded by point—
ing out needs for further develop-
ment in her particular field.

By C. FRANCES Looms
Editor

Department of Publications
Camp Fire Girls. Inc.

All around the world the
Camp Fire Girls this year are
celebrating their Silver Jubi-
More than two million
girls have followed the trail
to happiness along which the
seven crafts have led them for
the past twenty-five years.

Some facts were brought out
that were new to many of the
people present and the newspaper
. editor, feeling that this informa—

tion would be of interest to the
public, asked for copies of the reports, which were
printed as a series of six articles in The Reading
Times.

Each committee felt that there were special
needs in its particular field but the girls all agreed
on one need to present to the mayor on this oc—
casion. This need was for more recreational cen-
ters and they told the mayor where they felt these
were most needed and what schools might be
used. Mayor Stump asked Betty Glaes, the chair—
man of the committee making that report, some
very pertinent questions about how this might be
managed and she gave him thoughtful and practi—
cal answers. Some of the guests thought, because
of Betty’s poise and the soundness of her answers,
that these questions had been rehearsed before—
hand, but they were entirely impromptu. Betty
was able to answer the mayor’s questions because
she had, with the other girls on her committee,
personally gathered the necessary information and
given the subject careful thought. The mayor
took the reports with him for further consideration
and the girls, of course, will be very proud if
their recommendations bear fruit.

The activity has already borne fruit as far as the
girls and the community are concerned. The
community is better informed about its recrea-
tional opportunities and needs. The girls are not
only better informed but have a
deeper feeling of interest and re-
sponsibility as citizens.

Each committee had an adviser
in its particular field and the girls’
contact with these men and women
in responsible positions was an
enlightening and enriching experi:
ence. Mr. Thomas Lantz, Director
of the Reading Recreation Depart-

27

28 EXPERIENCE IN CITIZENSHIP

ment, acted as adviser for the whole project and
the girls are most grateful to him for his help and
guidance.

There was another question that the girls were
asking themselves—mot just what does my com-

munity do for me, but what can I do for my com- .

munity? In answer to this they made out a ser-
vice calendar, setting down the ways in which
Camp Fire Girls have been of service to their
communities and suggestions for other ways in
which they could be helpful. They planned and
carried out a service project which, because they
had started out on their undertaking just before
Christmas, took the form of toy collecting and
mending. They asked the Boy Scouts to help
them with this and gave a dance for them
afterwards.
VVe’ve sketched the

story of this informal sur-

different cities. It is interesting to note the needs
they discovered and the recommendations they
made. The Spokane, Washington, girls asked
that the swimming pools closed during the depres-
sion be reopened, and pointed out that a'civic audi—
torium where large public meetings could be held
was much needed. The report was made by the
girls at a luncheon meeting of the Chamber of
Commerce attended by two hundred and twenty-
five prominent men and women of Spokane. This
program was broadcast over a local station. In
Sherman, Texas, they also felt the need for a
community house where meetings could be held,
with club rooms, swimming pool, and tennis
courts. This report was made to the Sherman
Civic Club. In Denver, the girls invited people
prominent in the recrea-
tion field to a lunch-
eon meeting. The fathers

vey of recreation made by
the Camp Fire Girls in
Reading, but in other
towns all over the country
the girls were doing the
same thing. The same, only
different, because each
group of older girls took
the survey suggestions as
sent them from National
Headquarters and did
What they pleased with
them.

Dr. Harry A. Overstreet, commenting on
the reports of community needs made
by the Camp Fire Girls said: "I think
you have hit upon a great idea in these
projects. You are taking the dullness
out of citizenship. These reports all have
a zest to them. The girls enjoyed doing
what they did. They saw with their own

eyes and interpreted with their own
brains, and they had a happy time
doing it. . . . I think of no greater ser-
vice to our nation than to get young
people enthusiastic about opening their
eyes and their minds to what their
communities do and need."

of the girls were also
guests. At this meeting the
girls reported that “a park
in the heart of lower
down-town is badly need-
ed for the benefit of the
Negroes and foreigners
living in that section. They
have nowhere to go in
their leisure time and since
that part of town is very
over-crowded it would be

These “older girls” in
Camp Fire are girls who
have been members for several years, who have
enjoyed earning Honors and Ranks, who want to
continue their connection with Camp Fire, and
are particularly interested in service and citizen—
ship. They like projects of their own, and this
one was outlined at the request of the older girls’
groups. We sent it out to all of them to do with
as they wished. Some of the groups did not un-
dertake it because of other activities they were
more interested in at the time, and that was quite
all right because there was no pressure on the
girls to participate. Others went at.it with a will,
each group adapting it to meet their special inter—
ests and local situations. Their reports show vari-
ation in methods and results, though all followed
the general plan of dividing into committees to
gather information and pooling this information
in the final report.

Their findings, of course, are quite different for

 

a blessing to have a park.”
Those present agreed
strongly with the sugges-
tion and a committee was formed to discuss this
with the board of managers of the city parks.

The same feeling of need for recreational fa-
cilities in underprivileged sections of town was
expressed in the Dallas, Texas, report. “Dallas
has a great need for more schools, a park, and
other places of interest and amusement in this
section where the percentage of juvenile delin-
quency is high. There is a social center there but
it is too small to meet the demands on it and
badly in need of repair.” Other recommenda-
tions made were for a library on wheels to ser-
vice the outskirts of town, music’for the city
orchestra, a new wing for a crowded museum,_
more people to supervise recreation in city parks,
field houses for indoor recreation, and housing
equipment.

The reports themselves were very attractively
presented in book form with interestingly deco-

EXPERIENCE IN CITIZENSHIP 2‘)

rated covers and accompanied by photographs,
news clippings, and folders gathered by the vari-
ous committees during the course of the in-
vestigation.

Probably the significant feature of this activity
was that it was carried on entirely by the girls out
of their own interest, without adult pressure but
under the guidance of their chosen adult advisers.
The average age of all the girls taking part in the
project was fifteen and a half .'

It is particularly fitting that the girls who have
had experience in Camp Fire should be carrying
out this project this year, the twenty-fifth anni—
versary of the founding of Camp Fire Girls. Dr.
Luther Gulick, leading spirit among the founders
of Camp Fire Girls and our first president, was
a pioneer in the field of recreation and a lasting
influence in its development. He was president of
the National Recreation Association (then the
Playground Association.) from 1906 to 1910, and
during those years gave inspirational impetus and
practical guidance to the movement which has ad-
vanced steadily until today our large cities and
many of our smaller towns have parks,
playgrounds and recreation centers.
Most of the recreation centers and
playgrounds that the girls visited in
connection with this project owe their
very existence to the continuing influ—
ence of the Playground Association.

Dr. Gulick believed in practical
training for citizenship through experi—
ence and this philosophy of education
and character building was embodied
in the earliest plans for the Camp Fire
Girls program. ,Hesaid: “The sciences
that may be taught in school do not
equip the child with the social attitudes
that are demanded of the adult in a
modern community. She must have
opportunity for experience and respon—
sibility.” And that opportunity was
provided for in the community ser—
vice activities included in the first
program.

It is interesting to read in a book
published this year and sponsored by
the Progressive Education Association,
“Youth Serves the Community,” state-
ments of today’s educators which em—
body the same thought. Dr. William
Kilpatrick says in his introduction:
“We wish then an education, if possi*

ble, of old and young together, to help us in the
critical day ahead to bring about a better state of
society in this country of ours. Something posi—
tive must be done. Cooperative community activi-
ties constitute one line of attack.” And Dr. Hanna.
the author, says: “To harness the energy of youth
to the task of progressively improving conditions
of community life—that is the supreme challenge
to educational and social statesmanship."

It is sometimes difficult, however. to find op—
portunities for cooperative community activities.
Dr. Caroline Zachry, speaking at our Executives'
Conference, said that one of the stumbling blocks
in the way of making the social studies vital in
the schools was this difficulty" in giving young peo—
ple actual experience in community life. This
project, just completed by the older Camp Fire
Girls. is such an experience in citizenship, carry—
ing forward in 1937 the philosophy of education
incorporated in the Camp Fire Girls program by
Dr. Gulick and his fellow-planners twenty—five

years ago.

 

metesy Atlanta, Ga., Girl Scouts

Saving Pennies

AST SUMMER it was
L a bat for brother
Billy; now it’s a
stool for sister Susie!
Such is the life his-
tory of many unique
pieces of equipment and hand-
craft articles made recently in the
“'OI‘kShOp of the Houston Recre-
ation Department. '
Though at the time no one saw
the value of it, nevertheless the broken baseball
bats returned from the playgrounds were thrown
into a corner of the workshop and saved. It was
a happy “hunch,” for when requisitions for hand
looms on which to make purses, table mats and
other small woven articles began to flood the of—
fices of the Recreation Department “necessity be-
came the mother of invention,” according to Mrs.
Fred Browne under whose supervision the miracle
was performed, and old bats suddenly changed
into hand looms!

The wood in baseball bats is carefully selected
for durability and straightness, making it service-
able in the construction of the looms. And so it
was that the same old bat with which little Billy
knocked home runs last summer on the play-
ground became, under the skilled workmanship of
the artisans in the Department’s workshop, an
efficient hand loom for sister Susie.

After the workers had discovered the possibili-
ties which the bats offered they began casting
about for other projects in which they might be
used. Long lengths of wood, it was discovered,
were adapted to the making of camp forks, while
shorter lengths worked up nicely for the legs of
little Cinderella stools.

The Cinderella “pick
up” stool is made from a
piece of wood 16%,” x
13%” x ryz” and an old
worn, but not broken, bat
or parts of two bats. The
large piece of wood is
cut in the shape indicated
in the diagram to form
the seat. The small tab is
the “pick up” handle. The
bat is cut into thr'ee

30

You may think they're iust worthless old

baseball bats you're, throwing away, but
you're really discarding hand looms, torks

tor camp, and legs tor Cinderella stools!

By ZORA JOY GIFFORD

Recreation Department
Houston' Texas

Old baseball bats have a part in the con-
struction of Cinderella "pick up" stools

 

pieces of equal length
which are‘ whittled
or turned on a lathe
until they are 2 in-
ches in diameter.
Three holes I inch

in diameter are bored at a slight

angle through the seat and are so
placed that they are equally dis-
tant from each other. One end
of each leg piece is then cut as in
the diagram. The peg is 1%, inches high and I
inch in diameter and just fits into the holes bored
into the seat. The legs are glued or nailed into the
holes, and the stool is sandpapered, stained and

waxed.

And More Followed

Out of the same workshop which turned out
these novel looms, stools and forks have come
many other interesting articles. Game boards for
checkers, Chinese chess and many other table

games, puzzles, box hockey equipment, hat racks
for community centers, flle cases, attractive pos-
ters, and even novel musical instruments pour out
in an unending stream. It has become almost
axiomatic for the playground director, not pos-
sessing a piece of equipment he needs, to ask if
it can’t be made in the workshop. A very good
example was the recent need for small block-
printing presses with which to print the blocks
used in the annual report. A pattern was brought
in and very shortly thereafter three little presses
modeled after it were busily hammering away at
the annual report.

For pieces too large to be cut from baseball bats,
especially large flat pieces,
the workshop carpenters
have resorted in most
cases to prune b o x e 5,
orange crates and scraps
of lumber discarded from
larger p i e ce 5 of con-
struction.

Utilizing scrap mate-
rial found around the
workshop, Mr. Charles
Corbin, who has had con—
siderable training and ex-

SAVING PENNIES 31

perience in constructing and repairing musical in—
struments, deftly creates banjos, mandolins, uku—
leles, guitars and even one—stringed Japanese tid-
dles. The only parts of the instruments not made
in the workshop are the strings. In addition to
these instruments, which were made at small cost,
Mr. Corbin has repaired ukuleles, violins, victro-
las and pianos which have been given to the tle-
partment, making possible music clubs which
might not otherwise have come into being.

Something Else for Nothing!

Another example of "something made of
nothing” is the
equipment in the
pottery shop built
by Mr. S. J. Hart.
The kiln is of bee-
hive style with a
down draft which
burns gas and is
one of the few
kilns in.the vicin-
ity of Houston. It
was built of bricks
taken from an old
building which
was being disman-
tled. The three
kick wheels used
in the pottery shop
were assembled
from pieces of old
automobiles ——-
wheels, cranks,
bolts and nuts.

The pottery shop
has filled a very \

important and interesting place in the program of
the Recreation Department, making it possible for
housewives, art students, teachers and others to

create and have beautiful pieces of handmade
pottery.

The following figures Show the cost of building
the kiln and kick wheels:

second-hand fire brick for kiln . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$15.00

Lime and clay, approximately . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.65

Homemade 'burner and valve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5.00

Asbestos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 11.10

Pipe and clamps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 13.60
Welding thr‘ee kick wheels, bolts and nuts, bending
and welding axle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10.50

 

.-

Total cost of materials. kiln and three wheels. . $59.33

 

In common pottery, Mr. Hart, creator of the
kiln, points out, there are two kinds of clay: fat
clay, which is sticky and plastic, with a high
shrinkage which may be reduced by mixing with
clean white sand, and open clay, which is sandy
and in some cases has to be mixed with fat clay to
make it plastic enough to: work easily.

To mix clay, water should be added until it is
about as thick as cream. Mix with the hands and
break up all lumps. Then strain through a fine
cloth to remove any gravel or lime rock, as glaze

‘ will not stick to lime rock and in damp weather

the rock will expand and crack the glaze. Pour

.  .
' .4
.. Us“

.l' 

A glimpse at the contents otthe workshop shows how
varied are the articles made trom waste materials

clay into a heavy canvas bag and put through a
press it one is available. If not, pour the liquid
clay onto a table and let it stand until it is dry
enough to use. If an old electric coffee grinder
can be secured, clay may be dried as it comes from
the ground by grinding it. It can be ground as
liner as necessary, then mixed with water to the
right working condition. By this method the lime
becomes so fine that it gives no trouble.

Pottery should be dried in a closed room. Don’t
dry it in the sun, in wind or direct draft. Drying,
near a stove will cause uneven shrinkage, crack—
ing or warping. Don’t try to rush the drying pro-

(Contimt—cd on page 51)

"PEG-SI; Laughed"

time.”
This remark was repeated many t1mes as

the Public Recreation Commission of CincinnatI.
Ohio, swung into action at forty-two refugee cen-
ters during the recent flood disaster.

“PEOPLE LAUGHI-ID that evening for the first

Emergency Recreation in Cincinnati

The Recreation Commission was designated by
Disaster Administrator Dykstra as the official
agency in charge of recreation activities for flood
refugees after its services had been requested by
Mrs. Ella Brown, Executive Director of the Cin-
cinnati and Hamilton County Chapter of the
American Red Cross. Robert E. Coady, the Com-
mission’s Supervisor of Playgrounds, was put in
charge of the emergency program and with the
assistance of other members of the supervisory
staff of the Commission he accomplished an out-
standing piece of work. As the Commission had
no funds with which to employ leaders, nearly all
of the workers were selected from the W PA-and
NYA workers normally working with the Com-
mission. These leaders had already been given a
limited amount of training through the federal
agencies and the Recreation Commission and had
gained experience in working under the super—
vision of the regular staff for periods ranging
from a few weeks to several years. In addition to
these workers there were many volunteers and a
number of school teachers who offered their ser—
vices through the Cincinnati Teachers’ Association.

The Program. A recre-
ation program was pro-

days of inactivity—days and nights of worry over
lost possessions, of bewilderment and uncertainty
about the future. Obviously a recreation program
which would divert the attention of l adults to
games, dancing or music would give them emo-
tional release. Equally important was a program
of play for children.

Through the WPA Federal Art Project, which
had been working closely with the Public Recrea-
tion Commission, the services of orchestral, dra-
matic and vaudeville units were secured to give
programs at the refugee centers. In the larger
centers entertainments were given three times'a
(lay. at medium sized ones, twice a day, and at the
smaller ones, once a day. At Stowe and Wash-
burn, for example. where at the beginning of the
disaster more than 2,000 people were quartered, a
a symphony concert was arranged in the morning,
a vaudeville entertainment in the afternoon, and a
dance or movie at night.

There was an excellent response from volun—
teers for the entertainment program. The movie
operator at a local theater, having read in the
papers of the entertainment program, offered his-
personal talking machine equipment and for more
than a week gave two or three shows daily. Learn-
ing of his offer, other movie operators volunteer-
ed until there were tive outfits visiting the stations.
These entertaining units in some instances worked
continuously from one o’clock in the afternoon
until nine at night. Every unit volunteered to
work as often as their services were needed.

Between Friday, Jan-
uary 15th and Monday,

vided at each center for
all ages, creeds and races,
and activities were con-
ducted from 8:00 A.M.
to 8:00 P. M. or later.
Here at the centers were
thousands of people held
in the grip of despair.
Their need for food and
clothing had been met.
Behind them were days
and days of anxiety;
ahead of them were many
days of confinement at
the refugee stations—

32

Recreation has come to be recognized as a
necessity in normal times-none of the essential
municipal services along with Education, Public
Health and other governmental functions.

What of recreation in times of such disaster
as we have iust suffered? Does it measure up?

During the recent floods recreation depart-
ments performed outstanding service in helping
to maintain morale. to bring laughter to many
who thought they had forgotten how to smile.
It is impossible to present in this brief article
any adequate picture of the part played by
recreation departments and similar groups. but
we are happy to give our readers a few of the
highlights from reports which have come to us.

Recreation workers everywhere may be very
proud of the valiant service performed by mem-
bers of their profession in _the flood areas.

U

February 15th, engage-
ments involving 68 vau-
deville entertainments, 2 3
concerts by the symphony
orchestra, I 5 concerts by
the band, and 87 by the
dance orchestra, had been
filled. Approximately 63
moving picture perform-
ances were given and
there were 18 perform-
ances of a miscellaneous
nature by magicians, in—-
strumental trios and
other groups.

“PEOPLE LA UGHED” 33

At most of the centers the recreation leaders
gave a great deal of attention to helping the flood
refugees provide their own entertainment. There
were spelling bees, tap dancing contests, checker
tournaments, and choruses recruited from refu-
gees. At the Stowe School refugee center several
choral and entertainment troupes were organized
to go to other refugee centers to put on programs.
On pleasant (lays athletic games were arranged
out of doors on the school grounds or playgrounds
adjoining the centers. \Vhen the weather permit-
ted children were taken for hikes.

At some schools the workers necessarily faced
the problem of lack of adequate yard space and
indoor recreation facilities. In one center where
there was no gymnasium and no suitable space
available, the recreation program had to be car-
ried on in a portion of one of the halls and in a
play room no larger than an ordinary classroom.
Even there, however, the resourcefulness of the
recreation leader in charge was equal to the situa-
tion. Athletic games were worked out on the
basis of modified rules, and the small school yard
was used for the type of games that can be played
in a small space.

As a sample of the recreation program in opera-
tion at the refugee centers, the following outline
of activities at VVashburn School is offered:

KINDERGARTEN
Regular kindergarten activitieshlunches at noon

GIRLS 8-1.2 YEARS (Room No. 25)

Jacks Assorted quiet games
ROpe Lotto
Checkers Puzzles
Handcraft Kickball
Boys 8~12 YEARS (Room No. 26)
Dominoes Puzzles
Checkers ' ' Reading
Paddle tennis Active group games

Boxing Assorted quiet games
GIRLS 13—17 YEARS (Play Room and No. 27)

Kickball Assorted quiet games
‘ Handcraft
KOYS 13-17 YEARS (Gymnasium)

Basketball ‘ Boxing

Volleyball Group games
ADULTS (Room No. 1)

Cards Checkers

Dominoes Reading
READING R0031 (Room No. 23)

Books Puzzles

Magazines Story-telling

Pictures 41 letters written to relatives
SPECIAL ENTERTAINMENT (Auditorium)

Movies Band .

Orchestra Vaudeville

HALL PATROL

(A man was assigned to each hall to keep the group
movmg, directing the people to the proper rooms)

NATURE STUDY
SUNDAY SERVICES
Four Sunday School services

Two worship services

One song service

Property Damage. Tam Deering, Superintendent
of Recreation, in his report on the emergency ser-
vice has stated that twenty—three of the commis-
sion’s properties were under water during the
flood, the total area approximating 400 acres.
While considerable damage was done to the com-
mission’s buildings and grounds, the losses were
slight in comparison to those sustained by private
citizens having business properties or homes in
the flood area. The only recreation building which
was very seriously damaged was the West End
building which had not been constructed as a rec-
reation building but was a temporary wooden
structure which had been made over for use as a
shelter with beaver board used for partitions.

The vigilance of the commission’s workers by
day and night was responsible for the limited
damage done. At one building, which was the
concentration point for‘ supplies, in spite of the
fact that there was a yard full of material, so
diligent and alert were the employees that even
piles of sand and gravel were not lost, and prac-
tically nothing was permitted to float away. All
perishable articles were moved to the upper stories
of the building.

Similar care protected the furnishings and prop-
erties at the C and O grounds where it was neces-
sary to move all of the supplies, equipment and
furnishings from the hrst floors of the main build—
ings and temporary buildings. \Nhile the flood
waters moved swiftly into the colony buildings
holding the various exhibits and the branch of the
natural museum at the C and O grounds, nothing
was injured. Truck loads of valuable specimens
and show cases were moved. The commission
would have sustained very heavy losses at this lo-
cation had it not been for the extraordinary ac—
tivity of the employees.

Louisville Rallies Its Recreational Forces

Louisville, Kentucky, hard hit as was Cincin—
nati by the flood, immediately rallied its recrea-
tional forces, and workers of the Recreation Di-
vision of the Park Department under the leader-
ship of \Valter R. H. Sherman, Superintendent
of Recreation, worked unceasingly day and night.-
When it became evident that the regular recrea-
tion program could not continue all the workers

34 “PEOPLE LA UGHED”

were asked to report at the welfare office to aid
in Hood relief activities. Their knowledge of the
city, their experience in handling large groups
massed in centers, their ability to organize, made
them invaluable workers at tasks ranging from
typing to rowing boats, from cooking to organiz-

ing relief centers. All members of the Negro ‘

staff and a majority of the white staff were them-
selves refugees, separated from their families and
in many instances unable to communicate with
them. Without proper clothing for the work they
were called on to do and under great mental strain,
these workers carried on in a spirit of cheer and.
good will. “All of the men on my staff working
with me,” writes Mr. Sherman, “did not change
their clothing for eight days, working without
sleep until they were exhausted.”

During the Hood period, while helping with the
relief program, the Division of Recreation work-
ers conducted recreation programs which did
much to improve the morale of the refugees.
Typical of them all is the program conducted at
one of the schools used as a relief station.

CHILDREN UNDER TWELVE

Dramatics (story play)
Active games
Quiet games
Handicraft (cut paper

Singing
Story hour
Nursery sc-hool

(held each day from

work, valentines, paper 10:00 to 1:00)
circus) .
CHILDREN OVER TWELVE
Dramatics (stunts) Hikes
Punch ball Mass games
Basketball Quiet games
Touch football Singing
Baseball Handicraft (weaving, spatter
Tumbling work, silhouettes, etc.)
Game room Social dancing

(At the request of some of the older boys and girls a
Refugee Club was formed to sponsor dances or “Socials”
as they called them.)

ADULTS

Game room (cards and games collected by Boy Scouts
in community)

Reading room (books and magazines collected by
Scouts)

Religious services (conducted each evening by semi-
nary students)

Spiritual singing

\Veaving (mothers)

Daily staff meetings were held when the program was
planned by the staff. Any suggestions from the people
were followed. The following is a detailed program con-
ducted daily '

8 :00-10 :00 Breakfast
10:00- 3:00 Supervised recreation program
3:00- 5:00 Supper
5:30 Story hour (conducted by volunteer
workers)
7:00 Religious services (conducted by seminary
students)
8:00 Singing of spirituals (led by Mr. Paul Bar-
bour of Simmons University who was a
refugee)

At no fewer than twelve centers programs were
conducted consisting of singing, quiet games,
stunts, impromptu entertainment and social rec-
reation. At seven of the centers members of the
staff not only conducted recreation but directed
and supervisedlall phases of relief work.

In Other Cities

At Evansville, Indiana, the City Recreation De-
partment and the W PA Recreation Project joined
forces to supply recreation equipment, leadership
and entertainment. At the refugee station or-
ganized by the Red Cross entertainment programs
consisted of concerts by \VPA bands and orches—
tras, minstrel shows, community sings, skating
exhibition, movies provided by the Y. M. C. A.,
puppet and marionette shows, clown acts, music
and dance numbers furnished by the refugees
themselves. A typical daily program follows:

9:00-10:30 A. M.—Active games
10 :00-11 :30 A. M.—Ontdoor games
11 :30-12 :30 P. M.-—Noon meal
12 :30- l :00 P. M. Free play
1 :00- l :30 P. M.——Outdoor walks
1 :30- 2:30P. M.-——Quiet games and handcraft
2:30- 4:00 1'. M.—Active games
4:00- 4:30 P. M.—St0ry—telling
4:30- 5 :00 P. M.—Free play
5 :00- 6:00 1’. M.—Evening meal
6:00— 7:00P. M.~—-Games for small children
7:00- 9:30 P.-M.—Night program consisting of the
following :
7:00- 7:30 I’. M.—-—Ol(l time dance music
7 :30- 8:30 P. M.——Magicians, tap dancers, clowns, etc.
8:30- 8:50 1’. M.—Moving pictures
8 :50-10 :00 P. M.-——Dancing-—music furnished by dance
orchestra

 

Most ingenious use was made of the material
available. As yarn was easily obtainable in Evans—
ville, honeycomb mats were made in quantities,
and new classes were formed to continue instruc—
tion. The Recreation Department was quick to
salvage damaged material for the use of the hand-
craft program. Pianos, radios and discarded fur—
niture were collected, and screws, wires and all
parts for which any possible use could be imagined
were saved and new projects devised for their use.

Recreation departments in cities outside the
Hood areas did their part. When 2,000 refugees
were sent to Lexington, Kentucky, to be housed
in churches of the city, the local recreation de-
partment'immediately set up programs. In Cen-
tralia, Illinois, the director of recreation had sup—
plies on hand and °an organization set up before
the call came, and 200 refugees housed at the com-
munity center were provided with a recreation
program. The Chicago Park District collected a

(Continued on page 52)

Theodore Wirth—-

Pioneer in Park Planning

"The story of Theodore Wirth is the story

of American progress. He is a pioneer who
has lived to see the fruits of his work."

ORTUNATE INDEED is the individual who finds
his calling, and no less fortunate is the field

to which he makes the contribution of a
life’s work. .

For Theodore W irth, who retired on November
30, 1935, after serving for thirty years as general
superintendent of parks of Minneapolis, Minne-
sota, the choosing of a career presented no diffi-
culties. From the time he was old enough to ap-
preciate the exhibits in a Horist’s shop opposite
the home of his parents in \Vinterthur, Switzer-
land, he knew that horticulture was his Vocation.

It was no accident, then, that Theodore \Virth
became an international figure in the field of park
planning and development. He is a planner who
has planned his own life as he has planned his
park projects. His career constitutes one of the
most important contributions made by any in-
dividual to the cause of public recreation.

\Vhen Mr. Wirth reached the age of seventy—
two, his retirement from public service became
mandatory. But the City of Minneapolis refused
to bid farewell to the man to whom it owes its
splendid park system. Mr. \Virth, by action of the
Board of Park Commissioners, continues to act
as superintendent emeritus without fixed salary,
duties or respbnsibilities, but with certain privi-
leges in return for his consultation and guidance.
When he gave up his office he left with the Com-
missioners a comprehensive report on a metropoli—
tan park system for Minneapolis which he had
conceived and planned. In this report he placed
emphasis on the need for recreational areas and
facilities near large centers of population.

His Early Life

Theodore \Virth was born on November 30,
1863, in VVinterthur, Switzerland, the son of Con-
rad VVirth, a school teacher. As a school boy he

By JAMES F. KIELEY
Washington' D. C.

showed marked leaning towards horticulture, and
spent most of his leisure in the greenhouses and
gardens of his Horist neighbor. As soon as he had
finished his high" school course he became an ap—
prentice in the establishment of Stahel Brothers,
nurserymen, Horists, and landscape gardeners, at
Flawil, St. Gall, one of the leading horticultural
firms in Switzerland. After his apprenticeship of
three years, he took a special course in engineer—
ing at The Technicum in Winterthur. This made
him a professional gardener.

One of Mr. Wirth’s first jobs was in 1883, in
the landscape department of the National Exhibi-
tion in Zurich where he assisted in the laying out
and maintenance of the exhibition grounds. Next,
he went to London, England, where he was em-
ployed for two years by a grower and florist. His
work for this firm in arranging windowbox deco-
rations for private residences in all parts of the
city took him daily to the Covent Garden flower
market. After working for a few months in the
orchid houses of Sanders & Company, St. Albans,
he went to Paris in 1886 and was employed in the
Jardins des Plantes and later with a commercial
establishment. He returned to Switzerland to
take a position on a large private 'estate near
Constance, and in the winter of 1887-1888 entered

,the service. of the City Gardener of Zurich in

order to be able to attend night school in that city.
Mr. W irth had decided to go to America, and his
night school studies were courses in English.

In April, 1888, Mr. Wirth landed in New York.
In order to establish himself in the New World
he worked for a short time for a private gardener
in Morristown, New Jersey. He had been
promised a position in Central Park, New York
City, and while waiting for this job to become
available he worked for a rose grower in South
Orange, New Jersey. By summer his New York

35

36 THEODORE H'Hx Til—PIONEER 1N PARK PLANNING

municipal position became a reality, and he work-
ed in the New York Park Department green—
houses, and with the planting and forestry crews
for a year. His leisure, as before, was devoted to
study, for by this time he had decided to specialize
in the branch of landscape gardening. Aided by
his knowledge of engineering, and assisted by
Sam Parsons, superintendent of parks; and I. F.
.l-Iuss, general foreman of construction, he ad-
vanced rapidly in the department. During the con-
struction of Morningside Park he was promoted
to the position of foreman.

Politics upset Mr. \Virth’s career in the New
York Park Department when, with a change of
administration, he was retired from the service
with hundreds of other employees. With Mr.
Parsons’ recommendation -
he obtained commissions

den which has won national recognition as one of
the finest gardens of its kind. The idea of es-
tablishing turf walks in the garden was also con-
ceived by Mr. Wirth.

The Hartford chapter of Mr. \Nirth’s career

established his reputation. In 1905 he received an
invitation from the Park Commission of Minne-

apolis to look over the park system of that city
and to consider acceptance of the superintendency.

On to Minneapolis!

As with many a man at a crossroads in, his
career, it was not easy for Mr. Wirth to make. a
decision on that offer. He explained to his Board
shortly before his retirement: “When, in 1905,

M r. C. M. Loring invited me to pay him a visit to
consider the acceptance of

my present position, I was
at first disinclined to accept.

for the improvement of
several private estates on
Long Island, in Connecti-
cut, and along the Hudson
River, and later found em—
ployment 'with the State of
New York at Niagara
State Reservation. It was
during his stay on Long
Island that Mr. Wirth be-
came acquainted with F.
H. Mense, former suPer—
intendent of Danas Island
and the Perkins Estate at
Glen Cove. In June, 1895,

he married his friend's

"For his farsightedness as revealed in the
conception of his plan and the expression
of his ideas; for his ability as a designer
and an efficient administrator; for his
consideration of the most effective use of
park properties for all of the people, Mr.
Wirth has always been held in the great-
est admiration by this Board. He has
been an ideal public servant—but be-
yond thisI individual members of the
Board take the greatest pleasure in ac-
claiming the characteristics of the man.
Enduring friendships and sincere love and
esteem are bound to result from frequent
association with him, as evidenced by
our co—partnership in building the park
system.’' —The Park Board of Minne-
apolis in its 'testimonial to Mr. Wirth.

It rained every day during
my stay and everything
looked uninviting except
the people whom .I met,
who were very kind to me.
W hen I left here, I had in
mind to reject the position
offered, but on my long
journey home, however, I
constantly saw before me
those lakes, the river gorge,
Minnehaha Creek, the falls
and glen, and the many
other natural attractions

daughter, Miss Leonie A.
Mense. '

His Work in Hartford

Mr. W'irth’s first big opportunity came with his
appointment, in the spring of 1896, as superin-
tendent of parks of Hartford, Connecticut. A
new park commission had just been organized and
the constructive period of the city’s park system
had just begun. Here was the chance, then, that
Theodore W irth had planned and studied for—-
the chance to build a park system. Taking plans
provided by Olmsted and Elliot, the architects for
the Commission, he completed the job in ten
years. Elizabeth Park, one of Hartford’s favorite
recreation areas, came into the system subsequent
to the drafting of the original plans, and Mr.
’Wirth himself designed and established that park.
One of its outstanding features is the Rose Gar—

 

and the possibilities for
their betterment in the
public service, new acqui-
sitions, new creations, work among friendly peo-
ple for a well—organized, non-political Board of
Park Commissioners. By the time I reached home
I had gained a strong desire toaccept—not that
I did not have a host of friends in dear and beau-
tiful Hartford; not because I hadn’t a splendid
Board of Park Commissioners to work with. Not
these—for Hartford, the birthplace of my ‘chil-
dren, is still very dear to me. It was the oppor-
tunity for new work that attracted me chiefly, the
Hartford Park System having been practically
completed during my ten years of service.”

And so Theodore W irth became superintendent

of parks in Minneapolis early in 1906. For

twenty-three years previous to that time the Park
Board had been laying the fdundations of the park
system and had acquired approximately 1,800

THEODORE lI'VIRTH-h—PIONEER IN PARK PLANNING 37

acres of land, although few improvements had
been accomplished. The need for park facilities
was pressing in the growing city, and the Board
realized that a full program of work must be
pressed forward at once. Mr. \Nirth undertook
that job and developed a park system of 5,200
acres which included enlargement of Glenwood
Park from 60 to more than 680 acres, with es-
tablishment of the nursery in the park and con-
struction of Glenwood Parkway; the acquisition
of Camden Park and its improvement as a highly-
developed recreational area; the converting of the
old King’s Farm into Lyndale Farmstead with its
central warehouse, its well-appointed storage fa-
cilities, workshops, and greenhouses; the acquisi-
tion and improvement of The Gateway as an ar-
tistic entrance to the city;
the development of The
Parade into a centrally-

tion of the system “keep off the grass" signs dis-
appeared from Minneapolis parks, and he intro-
(luced playgrounds and other features of park utili-
ties suitable for the intensive use to which mu-
nicipal park systems must be put. Horticultural
advancement in park work has been one of his
chief aims.—

One of the most important principles to which
M r. \Virth has adhered in his park administrative
work is that the expense of facilities for any
special interest, such as golf, together with the
cost of operation and maintenance. should be met
by those who participate in these specialized forms
of recreation. He also insisted that no service in
parks should be conducted for private gain, and
remained opposed to concessions in parks. He
advocated that refectories,
boat, and other revenue-
producing facilities be

located, city-wide athletic
field; the establishment of
the Rose Garden, lilacs,
peonies, perennial border,
and rock garden at Lyn-
dale Park to form the sev-
eral units of a horticultural
exhibit; the Chain of
Lakes, comprising Lake
Calhoun, Lake of the Isles,
and Cedar Lake; the ac-
quisition and improvement
of Victory Memorial
Drive and St. Anthony
Boulevard; the paving and
developing of Minnehaha
Parkway; the -acquisition
and transformation of the

"There is enough glory, satisfaction and
happiness in what has been accomplished
in the building .up of the city's park and
recreation system since the creation of
the Park Commission 52 years ago to
bring pride to the heart of every citizen.
To the continuity of the service and the
never-faltering policy of faithful, diligent
foresight and economical administration
of your Honorable Board is due the con-
stant. steady and healthy growth to what
we now have in our park system. . . .
Your kindness and confidence in me have
been an inspiration and constant encour-
agement in my endeavors and in my work.
It seems as though it were but a few
years since I came—and I am so thank-
ful that I did come."—Mr. Wirth, in his
reply to the tribute of the Park Board.

 

operated by the Park De-
partment in the interest of
the public.

A pioneer in many
phases of planning, Mr.
\Virth was one of the first
to advocate beauty along
highways. He never ceas—
ed to emphasize the im-
portance of roadside im-
provement frOm the stand-
point of appearance.

Honors Conferred

Mr. \Virth brought f ame
to himself as well as to
Minneapolis through his
park work. and he has re-

'swamplands of Lake Amelia and Rice Lake into
the attractive and useful Lake N okomis-Hiawatha
Park area; the improvement of Powderhorn Lake
Park; acquisition and construction of Armour,
MeadOWbrook, and Lake Hiawatha golf courses,
and the establishment of a host of neighborhood
parks and playgrounds, giving Minneapolis an en-
viable playground system. Another achievement
during Mr. Wirth's administration was the acqui-
sition and improvement of the Municipal Airport
and the development of this field into one of the
outstanding airports of the country.

Parks Are for the People

Mr. \Virth's philosophy of park use has been
that the parks are for the people. Under his direc-

ceived highest honors as a park planner and execu-
tive. He was a charter member and has long been a
prominent and untiring worker of the American
Institute of Park Executives and the American
Park Society, of which he served twice as presi—
dent and for a number of years as treasurer. At
the 1934 convention of the institute he was elected
to honorary membership. The Twin City Flor-
ists’ and Gardeners’ Club and the Minnesota State
Florists’ Association were organized largely
thrOUgh the efforts of M r. 'Wirth, and he was the
first president of the latter organization. His in-
terest in flower shows never lagged, and in 1913
the Society of American Florists and Ornament‘al
Horticultiirists, of which he was vice-president,

(Continued on page 52)

Bead Crait as a Playground Activity

OODEx DEAD projects have .proved a fascinat-
W ing leisure time activity in our city. Chil-

dren. men and women are all interested in
making purses, belts, collars, bracelets, pins, but-
tons and head bands. in the varied types of bead
work otfered—weaving, knitting, crocheting, em-
broidery on canvas, porcelain bead mats, and many
articles which may be made with wooden beads——
there are projects to suit all tastes.

Wooden Beads. \\'ooden beads are imported
and are made of hard wood. They come in many
shapes—round, square, oval and Hat, and in prac—
tically any color. They are finished so that they
do not fade or rub off. Many useful and desirable
articles may be made from them, and the art of
putting the beads together can be mastered after a
few minutes of practice. This craft may easily
turn out to be your chief hobby or favorite pas-
time. Your own patterns and designs can be
worked out on paper and colored with crayons so
that you may see exactly how the finished product
will look.

A bead loom, which the children can make out
of a cigar box, may be used for weaving belts.
Bead mats are a popular project and they may be
made in many different shapes—hexagonal. round,
square or scalloped. Any cross stitch design may
be worked out in beads:
b a s k e t-s of flowers in
cross stitch
are especially
well adapted
for mat con-
struction.

Equipment.
Bead outfits
may be pur-
chased ac-
cording to the
project to be
made. Kits
are made up
i 11 Cl 11 d i n g
beads, design,
thread, nee-
dles, lining
and zipper for
purses. Equip-
ment for mats

38

A few of the articles which have been produced

in Springfield, IllinoisI by the use of beads

 

By MAURINE E. MADER
Assistant
Playground and Recreation Commission

Springfield, Illinois

may be purchased in the same way. liead work
may be as expensive or inexpensive as one wishes,
depending on the article to be made and the va-
riety of beads used. Bracelets may be made for
as little as five cents, while belts cost from fifteen
cents up, depending on the length desired. Purses
for children may be made for fortyrfive cents up.
\Vhile beads may be purchased for the individual
projects, they may also be bought in lots of a
thousand. After the participant has made some of
the articles it is a little less expensive to buy in
bulk. for it is possible to find at home materials
suitable for lining purses or for use in connection
with other articles to be made. \Ve have found it
desirable to sell the beads in lots of not less than
a hundred though they may be secured in strings
of fifty.

\V e use a waxed linen button and carpet 'thread
which may be purchased at any notion department.
\V e have had no trouble with thread breaking;
we do, however, double
it as this gives the article

more body.

Our ExPeri-
ence in Spring- '
field

We started
bead work as
a playground
project. It was
an experiment
with us and
we wondered
just how val-
uable a- hand-
craft project
it would be.
W e estimated
the approxi—

Ls.

(Continued on
Page 52)

be

r‘"

2%}

Court.th Park: and Recreation

  

 

ALONG with the new
advance in nature rec-
reation goes liability,
Dr. \Villiam G. V inal
has pointed out. A further word of warning
comes from a museum director: “I can but feel
that all this sending of the general public into the
country works havoc with the wild life. . . . The
‘clearing up and improving’ of the wilderness and
the establishment of recreation centers spell the
end of natural conditions. . . . The ‘general public’
cannot be educated to appreciate the wilderness
and are for the -most part vandals.”

The Problem of
Nature Yandals

 

COLUMBUS, Ohio,
is to have a new
$50,000 camp for chil—
dren, the contribution

of FERA and WPA. The camp was used last
summer for four weeks though it had not been
completed. Children from the various playgrounds
between the ages of nine and sixteen spent a few
days in camp at the very nominal fee of 50 cents
a day which included transportation to and from
the camp grounds. As the camp is located in the
territory of the old Wyandotte Indians, Indian
lore was very much a part of the program. The
camp will consist of twelve new bunk houses, a
director’s cottage, a new recreation hall and a
mess hall. The athletic field will be graded and

Camping in Indian
Atmosphere

        

regulation ball diamonds, volley ball courts, hand—
ball courts, shufHeboard, horseshoe, basketball and
hard surfaced tennis courts will be built.

THE Museum of Nat-
ural History of Cleve—
land, Ohio, has de-
veloped a program of
out—of-door recreation work, including nature and
wild flower trails, trailside museums, out—of-door
lectures, bird walks, conducted trips in the parks
for school classes and other groups, and field work
for a university summer class. ‘

Cleveland Museum’s
Out-of-Door Program

 

TH E average boys'
club in [school build-
ings or community
centers has a place
equipped for its special activities and thereby has
an excellent start toward its club program. There
are still clubs, however, which must initiate their
activities in a school basement room with nothing
to work with but four walls, and these walls and
the ceiling are close together! This was true of a
club conducted by the Lancaster, Pennsylvania,
Recreation and Playground Association. But this
did not daunt the boys. Using candles for illumi-
nation, they helped 'wire the room, then made
homemade screens for the windows and back-
stops for basketball. W’ith the help of a few bor-
rowed tools and packing boxes collected from the

39

Their Very Own
Club Room!

 

4U l'VORLD AT PLAY

GROUP WORK INSTITUTE

May 3| —-June l9. I937

Western Reserve University

A three weeks institute for experienced professional
group workers including credit courses in Principles
of Group Work, Supervision of Group Work, Work
with Individuals in Groups, The Use of the Skills

(dramatics, crafts, music).

A bachelor’s degree from a college of approved
standing is required for admission.

For information address

SCHOOL OF APPLIED SOCIAL SCIENCES

Western Reserve University
CLEVELAND. OHIO

neighborhood stores, magazine racks and work
benches were constructed. The same packing
boxes furnished material for a bird house project.
The club now has facilities for wood work of a

simple nature, whittling and coping saw projects;

basketball, ping pong, shufHeboard, harmonica
classes, shu-quoi, wrestling and boxing. It also
has a group of oHicers and conducts a short busi-
ness meeting previous to the program of activities.
The fact that the boys were obliged to make most
of their equipment before using it was no draw-
back. The club room is their room—didn’t they
help to equip it?

The Lancaster Hiking Club—A program
which may be suggestive for other hiking clubs
was that held in December 1936 by the Lancaster,
Pennsylvania, Hiking Club. It consisted of an
address on the subject, “The Horseshoe Trail,” a
talk by the curator of P. and M. College, who was
the first leader of the club’s Saturday hikes, and
the showing of moving pictures of scenes along
the horseshoe trail. These pictures showed local
hikes taken during the past eight years by G. D.
Brandon, Director of the Recreation and Play-
ground Association. Under his auspices the club
has been developed.

A Practical Gift——\’Vord has been received
from Willis H. Edmund, Director of Recreation,
Akron, Ohio, that the Recreation Commission has
received from the Board of Trustees of Akron
University for use in connection with its outdoor
program the complete Hood lighting system of the
University stadium. This gift will make it pos-
sible for the Recreation Commission to enlarge
its program materially.

 

Moscow Plans for the Future—The Moscow
Planning Commission has evolved a ten year plan,
according to the December, 1936 issue of The
Architectural Record, whereby the incorporated
area of the city has been expanded from 2,850,000
to 6,000,000 acres, chiefly to the soutthest where
the country is high and rolling. Beyond the city
limits an immense circular belt of forest and park
land is being developed. Under the existing plan,
a completely integrated system of arterial high-
ways, both radial and concentric, will be built.
Intimately connected with the development of the
street pattern is that of parks and 'waterways.
The boulevards which radiate in all directions
from the city’s heart are also parkways which,
broadening as they approach the city limits, direct-
ly link the peripheral parks to the city proper.
The margins of Moscow River and the numerous
canals and lakes are also being developed as park-
ways upon which a great deal of the city's new
housing will front.

WPA Recreation Projects in Chicago—
Dr. Philip L. Seman, Chairman of the Chicago,
Illinois, Recreation Commission, has announced
the consolidation of all WPA recreation projects
in Chicago into one city-wide project under the
sponsorship of the Chicago Recreation Commis-
sion. This new project involves some 4,000 work-
ers and a sum of money totaling $2,000,000 or
more. Wilfred S. Reynolds, director of the Coun-
cil of Social Agencies, was appointed by Dr. Se-
man to serve as chairman of a committee of the
Commission which will handle the Commission’s
sponsorship duties and act as its representative.
This committee will also be advisory to other pub-
lic and private groups and agencies seeking fed-
eral aid for recreation. Other members of this
committee are V. K. Brown, Chief of Recreation,
Chicago Park District; Walter Wright, Superin-
tendent, Bureau of Parks, Recreation and Avia-
tion; Dr. William H. Johnson, Superintendent of
Schools; Miss Agnes Nestor, President of the
VVomen’s Trade Union League, and Dr. Anthony
J. Todd of Northwestern University. A number
of other committees have been appointed by Dr.
Seman to serve in an advisory capacity to the in-
dividual agencies, both public and private, spon-

_ soring certain of the projects.

The Cost of Crime—J. Edgar Hoover of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation states that crime
is costing America at least $15,000,000,000 a year

WORLD AT PLAY _ 41

or an equivalent of $I20 per capita. He has also
made the statement that Milwaukee has only one-
6fth as much crime as any city of equal size in
America. Mayor Hoan asserts that if this is true
Milwaukee, with a population of 600,000 persons,
is saving society $96 per resident or $57,000,000
annually. He has also made the statement that
the credit for this saving is due to the leisure time
program carried on 'in the parks and social centers
of Milwaukee.

Happiness in Service—Lord Baden-Powell,
founder of the Boy Scout movement, on his
eightieth birthday sent the following message to
the Boy Scouts of the world: “Eighty years may
seem to you a long time, but I can’t remember a
time when I wasn’t busy, and as long as you are
busy you can’t help being cheerful. If you ever

find yourself without something to do, remember

there are always lots of people wanting help, old
people or infirm and poor people who would be
only too glad of a helping hand. However poor
or small you may be you can always {ind someone
worse off than yourself, ill or old or crippled. If
you go and help them and cheer them up a funny
thing happens. You find that by making others
happy you are making yourself all the happier,
too.

“I want you to have as long and jolly a life as
I have had. You can get it if you keep yourself
healthy and helpful to others. I will tell you my
secret for this: I have always tried to carry out
the Scout promise and the Scout law in all that I
do. If you do that you will make a success of
your life and will have a very happy time even if
you live to eighty.” ..

Meetings of the Women’s Division, N.A.A.F.
—-The V‘Vomen’s Division of the National Ama-
teur Athletic Federation has planned a number of
meetings which will be of interest to recreation
workers.

On April let the annual meeting of the Di-
vision will be held from 9 :00 to 12:00 in the Gar-
den Room of the Hotel Martinique, New York
City. The theme of the meeting will be “Athletics
As a Social Force,” and there will be two main
addresses———“Rural Problems in Recreational Ac-
tivities,” by Ella Gardner, United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and “Socializing Sports in
the City,” by Mark McCloskey, NYA Director,
New York City. This meeting will be followed
at [2 :30 by the fourteenth birthday luncheon. A

     

 

    

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

    
    
 

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of
Equipment for all Sports

THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, Inc.

JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., CINCINNATI, OHIO

 

number of speakers will talk on the subject, “Our
Theme in Relation to the Community and Girls
Out of School.” It is suggested that anyone de-
siring to attend this luncheon communicate with
Miss Mary Van Horn, Women’s Division, N. A.
A. F ., 303 West 42nd Street, New York City.

Music on the Akron Playgrounds—A total of
540 boys and girls of Akron, Ohio, were organ-
ized last summer into fourteen different bands and
orchestras. During the summer these groups pre-
sented a total of thirty-one concerts. The season
closed with a linal musical program at the fair
grounds in which a 100 piece orchestra partici-
pated. The services of the WPA music staff made
it possible to conduct I70 classes in singing
throughout the city. Eight community sings were
held and sixteen amateur shows produced.

Hockey Goal Nets—Discarded tennis nets,
the Montreal Parks and Playgrounds Association
has found, can be used to make very satisfactory
goal nets for~hockey. One of the most common
reasons for the wearing out of nets is that the
bottom of the net freezes to the ice surface, and
carelessness in taking it in often results in the

42 WORLD AT PLAY

 

I” TUMBLE-RINGS

WMM\w-Amtmiwwwsmwsmassuwmwmm'nmmvma'.u'M‘wW-s'ts-uHaw:le
Conrighf was, by C.W.MORCAN, Chicago. Ill.

NEW and DIFFERENT OUTDOOR GAME

Played on any fairly level lawn or ground. The Main
Object: To make the TUMBLE—RINGS catch on a loosely—
suspended chain by rolling them to it.

FOr INDOOR PLAY write for information about
BAKINET, introduced at a “Century of Progress
Exposition, 1934.”

Both games now in Chicago Park District Playgrounds.

TUMBLE—RINGS protected by Copyright, 1936. BAKINET
protected by U. S. and Canadian Patents.

C. W. MORGAN
1016 HYDE PARK BOULEVARD

__,______._____ _

CHICAGO. ILL.

 

 

 

tearing of the bottom section. This can be avoided
by having the bottoms of the nets attached to
boards so that when they are taken in the boards,
if frozen to the ice, can be easily forced without

damage to the nets.

Substitutes for Death Toys and Games——
World Peaceways, Incorporated,‘Io3 Park Ave-
nue, New York City, has issued an article entitled
“Substitutes for Death Toys and Games,” which
advocates the substitution for toy guns and minia-
ture implements of warfare of toys and games
which will meet the need for physical conflict, the
desire for adventure, the necessity for noise and
excitement, and the element of surprise. The arti-
cle suggests a number of toys and games which
will meet these needs quite as satisfactorily as toys
identified with the destruction of human life.
Copies of the article may be secured from World
Peaceways, Incorporated, at five cents apiece.

The New York Police Department in its distri-
bution of Christmas toys banned toy guns and
cannon.

Salt Lake City’s Costume Bureau—The Salt
Lake City, Utah, Recreation Department is justi-
iiably proud of the work of its Costume Division.
As a W'PA project the building facilities at. Vic-
tory Park were thoroughly remodeled and equip-
ped, new cupboards, shelves, ironing boards, wash
tubs and lighting fixtures being installed through—
out. Approximately 500 new costumes were added
to the wardrobe during 1936, as well as many ac-
cessories, such as sandals, belts, masks and
jewelry. The Costume Bureau now boasts a total
of approximately 1,100 complete costumes with
326 extra accessories and properties. The entire
wardrobe was checked over, repaired and remod-

eled, \VPA and NYA workers being made avail-
able for this project. Flood lights, scenery, cur-
tains and stage properties of all kinds areloaned
to church and school groups whenever possible.

Charles Hayden

(Continued from page 6)

boys and young men and believed heartin in pro—
tecting their spare time. In speaking of the needs
of boys throughout the country, he once said,
‘They should have their God-given right to play
and work off their surplus energy and to utilize
their spare time.’ The breadth of his interest was
expressed in generous provision for boys clubs, a
planetarium in. New York City, and contributions-
to a long list of charitable, civic education and
recreation causes. Charles Hayden personified
piety spirit. It permeated his work. He entered
enthusiastically, joyously and triumphantly into.
all that he did. He enjoyed recreation himself
taking part actively in golf, tennis, boating, social
activities and games of various kinds. The en-
thusiasni with which Charles Hayden worked for
the youth of America and his faith in them Willi
remain an inspiration to those who work in the
national recreation movement.”

The resolutions were signed by a Resolutions
Committee consisting of Joseph Lee, John H. Fin-
ley, F. .Trubee Davison, E. E. Loomis. and
Howard Braucher.

For Newer and Better Houses!
(Continued from page 9)

niture had a modernistic trend in keeping with the
style of the exterior.

The bathroom fixtures were modeled from clay
and baked. Sheet celluloid was used for glazing
the windows.

A fluted effect on the rounded exterior solarium
was gained by the use of I” x 2” blocks with the
outer surfaces rounded. Windows were cut into
the edges of the blocks after they had been mitred‘
to fit each other.

Some of the Values of the Project

As a playground project with universal appeal
a project of this kind is invaluable; it is equally
suited to both boys and girls, it produces ideas and
stimulates the imagination, it is highly educational,
it demands a high degree of craftsmanship, and
last, but by no means least, it provides a means
for children on the playgrounds actually to share

GULF SANI-SOIL-SET

. r . Here is a public school playground which
1 We... was treated with GULF SANI-SOIL-SET. b
' 6 months before the photograph was ~

‘1 taken. It has been used daily by_school ’
‘p n as well as neighborhood children. 0

‘w

New Germicidal Compound . . . i1

radii/y app/fed. . illéX/QQIIiiVQ . . [any [aJtiny

ECREATION officials now have a practical solution to the play-
ground dust problem!

A new produCt—Gulf SANI-SOIL-SET—has been developed by Gulf for

dust allaying purposes on earth surface playgrounds. This material can
be applied at low cost. When properly applied, it will not harm or stain
c10thes or shoes and under usual conditions of weather and soil, one

application per season will suflice.

Let a Gulf representative tell you more about GULF SANI-SOIL-SET.

GULF 0IL CORPORIITION—GULF REFINING COMPANY

GENERAL OFFICES: GULF BUILDING, PITTSBURGH. PA.

I
I
|
I
|
|
|
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
|
I
|
I
I
I
I
I
I
|
I
I
I
I
.I

GULF OIL CORPORATION . GULF REFINING COMPANY,
General OEices: Gulf Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Please send me without obligation a copy of the booklet “Gulf Sani-Soil-Set
for Treating Playgrounds.” .

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .

I Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 

44 BACK TO ATLANTIC CITY!

 

      

/
*Trade—mark for
key-tension device

- 33

  
  

e11 me about R038"

Yes—you can actually own a new Royal Port-
with carrying

able for as little as $1 a week. For Royal alone
gives you Touch Control*, an amazing improve-
ment which adapts the key tension of the
machine to everyone’s finger pressure! And this

is only ONE of Royal’s many unusual features!

Three models—three prices with payments from
75¢ to $1.25 per week. (De Luxe Model illustrated.)

ROYAL TYPEWRITER COMPANY, Inc.

. 2 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK. N. Y.

  

 

in cheering the lives of children less fortunate
than themselves at Christmas time.

Nineteen local institutions received the novel
gifts. Among them were hospitals, settlements,
children’s homes and the Glen Lake Sanitarium.
Enthusiastic letters of appreciation came from all
of them. A few of them follow.

From St. Joseph’s Orphanage:

We are very grateful to you and to the WPA Rec-
creation Instructors for the very beautiful doll house
with which our children were presented at Christmas.
You may be assured that your thoughtful remembrance
of our homeless little ones added greatly to their joy on
Christmas Day. It is our ardent wish and prayer that
your sweet charity be rewarded most abundantly.

I With best wishes for a blessed and happy New Year,
am,

Most gratefully,
SISTER EMELINDA, O. S. B.,

Sister Sr-tpm'ior.
From Emanuel Cohen Center:

For the Board of Directors and the boys and girls of
the Emanuel Cohen Center, I wish to express our thanks
and appreciation to your department, the children of Fol-
well Park playground and the WPA Recreation Instruc-
tors for the very lovely doll house you presented to us.

It certainly has created quite an interest in our'house
among the young and old alike, and the little_ tots in our
nursery school have a very good time playing with it.
We are going to keep this house on display during the
school vacation and turn it over to our nursery school for

their exclusive use after that.

You certainly are to be congratulated, not only on
the fine work which has been done on these houses, but
more so on your spirit in distributing these houses to the
various agencies in the community.

Many good wishes for continued success in your good

work.
Very sincerely,
J. MIRVISS,
Executive Director.

Back to Atlantic City!
(Continued from page 11)

with emergency funds must now be maintained
or lost. Can local recreation systems absorb these
additional burdens? Can they man them with
volunteer leadership? '

All over the United States citizens’ groups of
varied kinds are being formed to support better
municipal government, to reduce delinquency, to
serve as pressure groups in moving City Councils
to action in the realm of planning, health and rec—
reation. The value of such resources has scarcely
been touched in the field of recreation.

The Use of the Schools for Enrichment of
Community Living will be one of the live topics
of the Congress. \Vhy should school buildings
built by taxpayers be used only from nine to

I

RECREATION lVEEK [N SALT LAKE CITY 45

Recreation Week in

Salt La l<e City

THE FEBRUARY, 1937 issue of RECREATION de-
scribed Recreation \Veek held under the aus-
pices of the Oakland. California, Recreation De-
partment. Salt Lake City, Utah, according to the
annual report of the Recreation Department for
1936, also held such a week from June 14 through
June 21, 1936.

.A group of diversified activities, some specially
planned and others a part of the regular activity
schedule, were arranged and publicized to show the
breadth of the program. Radio talks were given
by prominent citizens and special addresses were
arranged for all service club luncheons. Billboard
advertising was carried on through the courtesy
of the Parks Advertising Corporation and the
VVPA art project.

The week was highly successful and will be re-
peated on a larger scale next year as ,a cooperative
project of the Salt Lake Recreation Council and
the Recreation Department.

The program was as follows:

....an ‘END to
Germ-laden DUST!

 

O Playground directors and doctors agree
that dust is a dangerous germ carrier.
And these same men endorse SOLVAY
Calcium Chloride as an effective, harm-
less method of combating this evil.

Sunday, June I4—“\Vater Recreation.”
Special boating regatta on Great Salt Lake.
Band Concert at Liberty Park.

Monday, June |5-—“P1ayground Day.”
Opening of activities on summer playgrounds. .

TuesdayI June Ib—“Archery Day.”
Special archery tourney and exhibitions.

Wednesday, June |7—-“i\'lusic Day.”
Special concerts by Salt Lake Civic Orchestra.
W PA concert orchestra.

Solvay, spread evenly over the surface
of a playground, tennis court, school
yard or athletic field, will instantly
eliminate the dust. And more, it re-
duces sun glare, keeps the surface
compact and firm, and eliminates weeds.

Solvay Calcium Chloride is absolutely
clean, odorless, easy to apply, and very
economical. Deliveries are p r o m p t
from 100 conveniently located stock
points. Full information and prices on
request.

Thursday, June |8——"Swimming Day." .
Special swinmiing meet.

Friday. June I9—“G01f Day.”
State Amateur Golf Tourney.

Saturday, June 20—“Outdoor Recreation.”
Special invitation to visit forest recreation areas.

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

Alkalies and Chemical Products Manufactured by
The Solvay Process Company

40 RECTOR STREET NEW YORK
BRANCH SALES OFFICES

Sunday, June 2|-—-“Baseball Day.”
Special benefit all-star game.
Band concert.

 

 

three? City after city has demonstrated their value

Boston Charlotte Chicago Cincinnati
for adult interests after school hours. Cleveland Detroit lndianapolis
. .. . . . Kansas City New Orleans New York
A new feature of the Consultation SCI‘VICC this Philadelphia Pittsburgh St. Louis

Syracuse

0 LVAY-

TRADE MARK REG. U. S.|PAT. OFF.

Calcium Chloride

year will be the provision of a collection of pub—
lications and' other material which will be made
available for study and reference by the dele-
gates. Materials issued by local recreation depart-
ments will have a large part in this display. Copies
of reports, record forms plans. publicity.'pro—

   

46 THE DUTIES OF A RECREATION BOARD [MEMBER

SHUFFLEBOARD EQUIPMENT

$6.00. $3.00, $l0.00. $l5.00 Sets
(Rubber-tired and Composition Discs)

10 Cents Brings Plan of Standard Court

DAYTONA BEACH SHUFFLEBOARD CO.
PHILMONT. N. r.

 

grams, budgets, copies of city ordinances, state
enabling acts and other valuable material will add
greatly to the concrete help delegates will get from
the Congress. ‘

Much of the value of any conference or con-
vention lies in the personal interviews and casual
talks that are possible. Men and women of simi-
lar interests, bafHed by similar problems, meet in
small groups or two by two’s to work things out
together. Many a difficult question will be re-
solved on the boardwalk long after COngress ses-
sions are ended.

Rich are the memories of. inspiration, fellow-
ship, and practical help that come to those who
have attended the Congress in the past. After two
years the “regular” Congress attendants will re-
new those happy contacts of other days. The new—
comer will look forward to an experience which
he will not soon forget. Together they will make

Swimming Pool Data and
Reterence Annual

(1937 Edition. Vol. V)
$3.00 Prepaid

0 I92 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested
in swimming pools in any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
404 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders. etc..

payable to Earl K. Collins

John Nolen

Dr. John Nolen, internationally known land-
scape architect and pioneer in modern city and
regional planning, died on February 18, 1937.
The park and recreation movements owe much to
Dr. Nolen, for among more than four hundred
public planning projects in which he participated
were many having to do with parks and play
spaces. He was keenly interested in the recrea-
tion movement and attended a number of the
National Recreation Congresses.

up a Congress assembly that will set new mile—
stones of achievement along the way to better rec-
reation for the American people.

The Duties ot a Recreation

Board Member

(Continued from. page 12)

tive rest to a large degree the success of the local
movement.

The far—seeing board will refrain from:

Assuming the functions of the superintendent
of recreation in executive details.

Dealing directly in an executive capacity with
subordinate employees. i

Urging upon the recreation executive the em-
ployment of workers regardless of their qualifica-
tions or forcing him to discharge competent em-
ployees for purely political reasons. ‘

There are a number of general principles rela-
tive to the relationship of the board and executive
which are generally understood to be necessary in
the establishment of successful working relation-
ships. Most important of these is the willingness
of the board to give the executive a free hand,
within the limits of the policies laid down by it,
to organize and carry on the affairs of the depart-
ment as long as his efforts produce the results
desired and meet with the general approval of the
public. In no other way can an executive do his
best work. In no other way will a governing body
have the full benefit of the resourcefulness, initia-
tive and technical knowledge and skill of its su-
perintendent. There will always be a constant in—
terchange between the governing authority and
the executive in respect to both governmental and
executive functions. Out of suggestions of the
executive will, no doubt, come many of the plans
and policies adopted by the governing body. Simi—
larly, a recreation board may be of great aid to an
executive in purely executive functions. This is

[’Etib' — AND [VHAT TO [)0 lll'l'I‘H THEM! 47

especially true if the board has on it a number of
members who are technically trained in some par-
ticular executive service or who have had wide
experience in handling executive problems.

A recreation board can best serve. its com-
munity by holding its executive officer responsible
for a high degree of efficiency in the administra-
tion and operation of the recreation department.
Board members should consider their responsi-
bility in serving 011 the board a public trust to be
regarded with the same sincerity' and earnestness
shown in the pursuit of their business or profes—
sional life. In this way' alone can the public be
most effectively served and municipal recreation
take its rightful place as a public service.

Pegs—And What to Do With Them!

(Continued from page 14)

Give each of the players at the head of the left
hand divisions a ball. On the word,“go” these
players roll the ball at the peg. If it is knocked
down the player runs out and sets it Lip and then
steps out of the game. The player at the head of
the opposite division retrieves the ball and from
the head of his line bowls at the peg. He con-
tinues to bowl until he knocks down the peg, the
head of the opposite division retrieving for him.
\Vhen the peg is knocked down he sets it up and
the retriever starts to bowl and so the game con-
tinues. The first team with only on player left
wins.

Peg Stand and Carry Relay. Teams take posi-
tion described above, except that one division has
one more player than the other. The two sections
of each team are thirty to forty feet apart, and
midway between-is a peg in a circle.’ At the signal
“go” each player at the head of the longer division
runs to his peg, picks it Up and carries it to the
head of the shorter division. The player who has
just run goes to the end of the shorter line, while
the player to whom he gave the peg returns it to
the center and rims on to tag the next person in
the longer line, who does as the first player did,
and so on. The game continues until all players
on one team have changed divisions or until they
are back in their original positions. If a peg falls
the player who last stood it up must run back and
set it up again.

Peg Shift Relay. The game is played as above,
except that the peg is moved from one circle to an
adjoining one and the player continues‘, tags the
OppOSite man who runs back and shifts the peg
into the other circle and so on. ’

COSTUME CLOTH
and FABRICS

0 Teachers who are planning pageants or the presen-
tation of dance groups will find Associated's selection
and service helpful.

From Broadway to Hollywood we are recognized as
originators of stunning fabrics and fabric designs.

Write for Samples of the actual Fabrics
While in New York visit our showrooms.

ASSOCIATED FABRICS CORP.

. 723 SEVENTH AVE. (0n Times Square) NEW YORK. N. Y.

 

Peg Balance Relay. Teams are in file formation
about five feet apart. Thirty feet in front of each
file is a line. The head of each file has two pegs.
On the signal to start the leader of each line
places one peg on top of the other, holding the
lower peg with the hand below the middle of the
peg. As soon as the pegs are balanced, the player
puts his free hand behind his back and starts for
the line. Should the top peg fall, the player must
stop, pick it up, balance it again and put his free
hand behind him before he moves forward again.
The free hand must not be in front while the
player is moving. When he crosses the line he
may seize both pegs in his hands and run back to
the next player who proceeds in the same fashion.
The first line to finish Wins.

Balance and Stand Relay. This is played as is
the above game save that all but the first player
have one peg. The first player, who has two pegs,
balances his pegs, one on top of the other, to the
line, stands one up on the fioor and carries the
other back to the second player. If a peg on the
line falls down, the last one totouch it must set it
up before his team mate may start.

Knock the Peg Down. Players are in file forma-
tion. About twenty feet in front of each file is a
peg behind which stands a catcher. On signal to
start the leader of each team bowls a ball at the
peg. He must continue to bowl until the peg is
knocked down. When it falls he goes to the foot
of the line, the catcher returns the ball to the head
of the line, sets up the peg and the game con—
tinues until one team has all its men in their
original position.

Middle Peg Down. The game is the same as the
previous one save that instead of one peg there.
are three in a row, one foot apart. The bowler
must hit the middle peg down. but leave the other
two standing.

48

air

FOR THE PRICE OF A SINGLE MOVIE!

 

SAMPLES

. . of what is published in
the columns of CAMPING WORLD

PARENTS . . . Camping World meets
the challenge of parent behaviour
and attitude toward the Camp Di-
rector and The Camp by publishing
a frank discussion of the problem.

LAWS . . . Camping World meets
the challenge of state health authori-
ties by publication of an enlighten-
ing series of articles on the scientific
reasons for health laws.

MOTIVATION . . . A guide by which

camp leaders can study the various
means by which camper motivation
is generated.

ADOLESCENT . . . Camping World
discusses the advisability of send-

ing a 12-16 year old child to a co-
educational camp.

INITIATIVE Do you believe

campers are capable of deciding
their own activities? Camping World
shows that initiative at best is rare.

PERSONNEL . . . A successful, tried

method of preparing the counsellor
staff for its camp duties is given by
Camping World.

PROGRAM . . . The heart of a camp
is its program. See Camping World's
criteria for the formation of a camp
program.

$2.00 for ONE YEAR

CAMPING WORLD

THE NATIONAL MAGAZINE OF CAMPING

Edited by L. NOEL BOOTH

11 East 44th Street. New York. N. Y.
Send to Dept. R 6 for a sample copy E

 

*

For the Price of a Single Movie!
(Continued from page 20)

’ 7 ’1
the stage reading “Vote Yes for Playgrounds.
Between the ten-minute performances the an-
nouncer urged voting for recreation. '

On election day excitement ran high. Voters
were transported to the polls in borrowed cars;
sample ballots were'given out; checkers at the
polls checked on votes from the precincts, and
children carried slogans near by. The results were
gratifying, for final figures showed a 2% to I
ratio in favor of recreation;

When Gypsies Come to Reading
(Continued'from page 22)

The winner of each age group is eligible to the
sectional story contest scheduled for the follow-
ing week. An alternate is chosen in each case.
For this contest the city is divided into four dis-
tricts, and one playground within each district is
selected as the place at which the sectional con-
test is to be held. The contestants from the play-
grounds within the district meet at the places de-
signated. The girl leaders of the four designated
playgrounds act as hostesses. It is their duty to
greet the contestants and make them feel at ease,
to greet the judges and see that they clearly un—
derstand their directions, to announce the con—
testants at the proper time, to tabulate the judge’s
decisions and to send the names of the winners to
the Recreation Department office the same day as
the contest. '

The judges of the contests are members of the
Story League, invited by the Supervisor of Dra—
matics. Before the contest, each judge received
through the mail a copy of the score sheet, plus
directions for scoring. The point system is used
for the following:

Selection . . . . . . . .  . . . .30 points
Memory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 points
Delivery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 points
Posture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10 points

Spaces are provided on the sheets for remarks
by the judges and for suggestions for improve-
ment of future contests. Three judges- are pro—
vided for each sectional contest. The grouping is
the same as for the local contests and the winner
of each group is eligible for the city—wide contest,
held one week after the sectional ones.

(Continued on page 50)

Become Familiar with

CRAFT

BEAD

I‘Qllll the article ill this
issued entitled "Bead Craft

As a Playground Activity”
by Maurine E. Mader of the
Playground and Recreation

Commission, Springfield, Ill.

- Experiment w i t 11
this fascinating leisure time
vocation. Try it yourself.
You will be amazed at its
simplicity—pleased when you
realize how appropriately it
applies itself to your project

work.

I."

452 . .
NECKLACE 

Special $1”0 offer

Send only one dollar for complete outfit for making up
items as shown in either of these two illustrations. Book
of Instructions included. This special offer to profes-
sionals is limited—only one order per person accepted.

0 ;.'.:¢.:o’¢:o:e:o‘o:

 

453 I

BRACELET

PROFESSIONAL PROJECT

Address: DEVELOPMENT DIVISION

WALCO BEAD C0.

37 ‘VEST 37th STREET

 

The attractive
in a g s h o w n
above was made
from Walco
Wood Beads.
It opens and
closes with a
zipper. and is
beautifully lined
inside. Send for
Walco Outfit
No. 455.

The Belt.

Bracelet and
Necklace shown
at the left were
at a d e fr 0 m

Walco Wood
Beads. Send
forWalco Com-
bination Nos.
45'. 452 and
453.

NE‘V YORK, N. Y.

49

all

PUSTEHS- PLAYS° PROGRAMS
LESSON OUTLINES

 

Safety Materials
for the Teacher -

O The Education Division of the National
Safety Council offers a consultation and
publications service to the schools on all
problems relating to safety teaching.

0 A Special Safety Packet for Playground
Directors is now available. This is a valu-
able collection of materials to help the
playground director promote safety on the
playground and consists of ten attractive
safety posters, crayon lessons for small
children, a short play and a program of
activities for supervised playgrounds.

Price $1.00

0 SAFETY EDUCATION MAGAZINE
provides the teacher with material for a
well-rounded safety program based on
seasonal hazards. The colored "posters,
graded lesson plans, plays, stories, infor-
mational articles, accident facts, patrol
news items and other features are pre-
pared by school people who are experts
in the- field of safety teaching.

Subscription—$1.00 a Year
0

EDUCATION DIVISION

National Safety Council
One Park Avenue. New York. N. Y.

RECREATION DEVELOPMENTS IN MONTREAL

Recreation Developments

in Montreal r

CAPTAIN WILLIAM BOWIE, Executive Secre-
tary of the Montreal Parks and Playgrounds
Association, has written that work is Well under
way in the one million dollar park and play~
ground improvement and development program in
Mbntreal, which is designed to give. employment
to as many men as possible.

Included in the project is $275,000 for a mu-
nicipal bathing beach on St. Helen’s Island situ—
ated in the middle of the St. Lawrence River, and
easily accessible from the crowded section of the
city. This beach will be finished in May, 1937,
and will accommodate some 10,000 bathers.

$250,000 has been set aside to be expended on
the expansion of the Botanical Gardens.

Generous provision has been made for play-
grounds for the younger children, playing fields
for the older teenage boys and girls and picnic
grounds for families. I

A sum of $144,000 is set aside for the building
of large wading pools in playgrounds situated in
congested parts of the city.

$7 5,000 will be devoted to the improvement and
reforestation of Mount Royal Park; the unique
mountain park situated in the heart of the city.

The balance of the money will be expended in
beautification, improvement and extension of ex-
isting parks. This will fill a long felt need.

The cost of these improvements is being borne
50% by the Provincial Government and 50% by
the Federal Government, so that the city of
Montreal is securing much needed facilities with-
out putting an added drain on the sorely depleted
civic treasury.

The Hon. William Tremblay, Minister of Labor
of the Province of Quebec, has declared that when
this project is completed new development
schemes will be substituted ‘so that as far as pos-
sible men will be kept permanently off the relief
lists.

 

On the appointed day the entrants and judges
(again three members of the Story League) meet

, on a grassy plot in the City Park. A hostess

chosen by the Supervisor of Dramatics takes care
of the routine matters. Usually at this contest

lthere are many visitors—wparents, friends and

PLAY FOR HANDICAPPED CHILDREN . Sl

PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

SAFETY is an essential of every outfit
DURABILITY is built in to give longer life

Write for Catalog 28

FOR BEACH AND SVVIMNIING POOL EQUIPMENT
lVrire for Catalog 28W

THE EVERWEAR MANUFACTURING COMPANY -

The World’s oldest and largest exclusive makers of
playground, beach and pool apparatus

SPRINGFIELD, OHIO

those interested in the art of story-telling. The
gathering is very informal, each group telling its
stories in turn. A prominent citizen attending the
contest of 1936, was invited to present ribbons to
the winners. This, plus light refreshments, were
new additions this year, which proved very en-
hancing to the whole affair. It is customary for
the winners of the city-wide contest to tell their
stories over the'radio on the regular weekly De—
partment broadcast. That, with the ribbons
awarded is the only prize offered. While called a
contest, and carried out on that basis, the story-
telling affair is intended more to foster good

story-telling and to instill interest in literature
than to be merely a competition.

The girls and boys of Reading love story-telling
but in order to make the activity on the play-
grounds truly successful, there must be a program

carefully planned and followed during the whole
season. -

Play for Handicapped Children

(Continued from. page 26)

Teachers in the Special Education Department
are called “Play Ladies” by the children. This is

 

scarcely a misnomer for with great care we foster
the spirit of true play that the hospitalized child
may not need to retrace his steps in the serious
work of preparing for life, for he is living his
adjustments, his tolerance, his understanding in
everything he says and does.

Saving Pennies
(Continued from page 31)

cess. A highly plastic clay dries more slowly than
an open clay, and open clay is less apt to crack.
Pottery should be thoroughly dry before being
fired. If it scratches dusty on the bottom, it is dry
enough to be fired. Clay is porous and contains a
large amount of air, which will expand and crack
the article upon being put into the kiln unless the
object has been thoroughly dried. Pieces should
be dried on shelves with small sticks under the
bottoms to make drying more even.

After the pottery is dry, place it in long square
tiles of fire clay, which can be stacked one on top
of another until the kiln is full. Start the fire very
low, and if burning gas leave the flame at the same
height for about eight or ten hours. This will
finish drying the pottery. The door of the kiln

52 - THEODORE WIRTH—PIONEER IN PARK PLANNING

RINGER
(Patented)

A Health-Building Game
for Old and Young

Pitching Horseshoes is muscle-building rec-
reation that appeals to all types of people.
Install a few courts on your grounds, organ-
ize a horseshoe club, schedule a tournament.
Write for free booklets on club organiza-
tion, tournament play. etc.

Diamond Official Shoes and accessories
are the choice of professionals and ama-
teurs alike. It’s economy to purchase
equipment with the longest life.

I) I 'AtM 0 N I]

611216 "1103512511019: 00':
46l0 Grand Avenue Duluth. Minn.
Makers of DIAMOND 0§icial Pitching Shoes

 

should be left open to let the moisture out. Be-
fore increasing the fire, brick up the front of the
kiln and leave a small hole large enough to watch
the gauge through. If the clay is held at red heat
for three hours, it will be fused enough to hold
together in water. When shutting the kiln off, be
sure to stop up the draft at the bottom and let the
kiln cool off at least twelve hours before opening.

" People Laughed"
(Continued from page 34)

large number of game boards and similar supplies
and shipped them to cities in the flood areas of

Illinois.
Once more recreation has demonstrated its value

in times of stress and disaster!

Theodore Wirth—

Pioneer in Park Planning
(Continued from page 37)
held its annual convention in Minneapolis and

elected him president. He was instrumental in
bringing to Minneapolis the National Flower and

Garden Show in 1930. In recognition of his ser-
vice to horticulture and for his previous offices as
president, he ‘was awarded the Gold Medal of
Honor of the Society of American Florists and
Ornamental Horticulturists. In 193.3 he was
awarded the Pugsley Silver Medal of the Ameri-
can Scenic and' Historic Preservation Society for
meritorious park service in his work with the Park
Board of Minneapolis.

When Mr. Wirth retired from active service, he
and Mrs. Wirth started on a tour of the world
which they completed in eleven months. Before
returning to Minneapolis the couple visited their
sons, Conrad L. Wirth, Assistant Director of the
National Park Service in charge of the Branch of
Recreational Planning and State Cooperation, in
Washington, and Walter L. Wirth, superintend-
ent of parks, of New Haven, Connecticut. An—
other son is Lieutenant-Commander Theodore R.
W irth of the United States Navy.

Bead Craft as a Playground Activity
(Continued from page 38) I

mate cost of various small articles, such as brace-
lets,‘head ban'ds, belts and small purses. In our
city, as in most communities, there is little money
available for handcraft supplies, and on play-
grounds it is often hard to find any funds for
materials. In introducing bead work on our play-
grounds each director started the bead project and
that, it seemed, was all that was needed! The
children had their own ideas as to color and de-
sign, and with a little help worked out many at-
tractive articles. Many of the older girls made
small purses, some with initials or monograms
worked out as a design in the purse. .These were,
of course, all along the simpler lines of bead work,
but when the fundamentals or principles have
once been learned any pattern can be worked out.

The Playground Commission is headquarters
for supplies and each child pays his five or ten
cents or whatever the price of the article to be
made may be. These beads are sold without profit
to the Commission. Our experience has shown
that if a child really wants to make an article he
can find the necessary pennies with which to do it.

The first summer’s work was carried over into
the Girl Scouts’ winter program and that of the
Girl Reserves and of the Y. W. C. A., Y. M. C. A.
and camps located near here. Many calls were re-
ceived from adults at the close of the summer
playground program when they had seen the work

(Continued on page 54)

t
\

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 53

The I Library and Recreation

HE RECREATION COMMISSION of Millburn,

New Jersey, according to Carl Schmitt, Di-
rector of Recreation, has completed a piece of
work in a field not usually considered a part of
the recreation program.

In 1935 a new recreation building was com-
pleted in Taylor Park, the center of the com-
munity’s recreation activities. The local Junior
Service League cooperated by furnishing the
building and supplying books for the room set
aside as a reading room. The League also assist-
ed by providing leadership every afternoon for
this library. It was impossible to make it a lend-
ing library since a clause in the deed of the donor
of the park specifically stated that a public library
could never be established in the park. There was
no question, however, of the desirability and in-
terest for establishing a public library in the com-
munity. The State Library Association had re-
ported that Millburn was the only community of
its size in the state without a public library and
something, it was felt, should be done to meet this
long felt need.

Aided by the interest created“ through the read-
ing room in the park, the Junior Service League
and the Recreation Commission initiated plans for
enlisting the cooperation of other organizations in
the town in the establishment of a free public li-
brary. The Recreation Commission started the
ball rolling by persuading the Township Commit-
tee to turn over a two-family residence which it
owned and eventually to appropriate enough
money to repair and improve the lower floor of
the building, install a modern heating plant and
make the building available for use as a library.

In the meantime the Junior Service League was

busin at work talking up the proposal for a li— ‘

brary with other organizations, and a meeting of
representatives of the various groups was held to
discuss plans. The outcome of this meeting was a
second meeting at which a Library Board was ap-
pointed. A plan to sell memberships was formu-
lated and a date set for a drive for funds. It was
decided to sell active membership for $1.00, con-
tributing membership for $10 and a lifetime mem-
bership for $100 or more. The plan included the
proposal to turn the contributing and family mem-
berships and all additional active memberships
which could be secured into cards for children and
others financially unable to purchase them. In this
way the library would be open to all.

A great deal of assistance was given by organi-

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

     

 
   

  

MAGAZINES

Journal of Physical Education, March-April 1937
Hints on Badminton, by Kenneth Davidson

A Study of Seven Learn—to-Swim Campaigns,
by S. P. File

Community Wide Softball, by Merle A. Harding

Journal of Health and Physical Education, February 1937
~Art and Activity, by Helen A. Pendergast

Suggested Programs for Demonstrations and Exhibi-
tions, by C. 0. Jackson

Systematized Swimming Meets, by Marjorie M.
Mayer

Girls’ Basketball Leagues, by Anna Hiss
Playball, by Marion Robinson

Planning and Civic Comment

A supplement celebrating the 20th anniversary of the

National Park Service was issued with the Octo-
ber-December 1936 issue.

Leisure, March 1937

Bigger and Better Dramatics, by Leone M. Buechele
The Romance of Archery, by W. A. Wittich
Good Books for Bad Boys, by Calvin T. Ryan
Pin-Etched Easter Cards, by Agnes Choate Wonson
Shamrock Fun—a St. Patrick’s Day Party,

by Harry D. Edgren

Recreation from the Social Work Year Book

Journal of Health and Physical Education, March 1937
On Walking, by Leon J. Richardson
Modern Psychologies of Sports, by John Brown, Jr.
Diving, by Matt Mann

Parks and Recreation, March 1937
Window Publicity for Parks

A Traveling Museum as an Educational Feature,
by Hugh S. Davis

Nature Activities at Oglebay Park

Parents’ Magazine, April 1937
Family Fun, by Elizabeth King
Books for Boys and Girls, by Alice Dalgliesh

Teachers Journal, January 1937
Hobbies Modify Personalities, by Walter L. Scott

PAMPH LETS

Annual Report of the Board of Recreation Commission—
ers, Summit, N. J., 1936

Second Annual Report of the Department of Public Rec-
reation, Winston-Salem, N. C., 1935-1936

Annual Report of the Division of Recreation, Parks and
Boulevards—Toledo, Ohio, 1936 _

Annual Report of the Pleasure Driveway and Park Dis-
trict, Peoria, Illinois, 1936

Youth Progress . _ . '
Michigan National Y0uth Admimstration, City Na-
tional Building, Lansing, Mich.

Fifteenth Annual Report of the Park Department, Recrea-
tion Bureau of Passaic, N. J., 1936

Annual Report of the Superintendent of Recreation of the
Union County Park Commission, 1936

Girl Scout Report for 1936
National Parks of Canada—Annual Report, 1935-36

Annual Report of the Playground and Recreation Depart-
ment of the City of Aurora, Ill., 1936

54 BEAD CRAFT AS A PLAYGROUND ACTIVITY

S’aoe $1.00

Special Introductory
0ffer $2.00

To acquaint you with the real character-build-

ing material to be found in each issue of

CHARACTER MAGAZINE we are making the
following SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER:

For a limited time you can'subscribe to

CHARACTER MAGAZINE for one year
and also get a copy of UN TYING APRON
STRINGS for only $2.00. (Regular rate
$1.50 each.)

CHARACTER MAGAZINE is a publication
that should be in every home, school, church
and public library. Some of the finest minds in
the country are numbered among the editorial
group responsible for this magazine.

UNTYING APRON STRINGS is a book on

mental hygiene presenting in well written form
the problems facing parents, teachers, counsel-
ors and communities in the training of children,
and then gives the solution of these problems.
Young people will find the help they need in solv-
ing their problems of personality development.

Right NOW fill in the order blank below,
pin $2.00 to it, mail to us TODAY and you
will never regret the small amount ex-
pended. Tell your friends about this offer.

CHARACTER MAGAZINE.
Dept. A.
5732 Harper Avenue, Chicago, 111.

Enter my subscription to Character Magazine for one
year and also send me 1 copy of Untying Apron Strings.
all for $2.00. Enclosed is remittance.

Name .............................................................................................. ..

Position ......................................................................................... ..

Address .......................................................................................... ..

City ...................................................... .. State .............................. ..

 

zations, individuals and the State Library As-
sociation, with the result that six months after the
original plans were discussed Millburn feels as-
sured of realizing its dream of a free library for
all its citizens. 

Bead Crait: as a Playground Activity
(Continued from page 52)

done by the children. Such questions were asked
as, .“Why not start a class in bead work for
women?” “What is the cost of the material?”
“How long does it take to finish a. purse ?”

We organized a women’s handcraft class in one
of the public school buildings. This class, which
met one afternoon each week from two to fOUr
o’clock, was received with such enthusiasm that
many more similar classes have since been or-
ganized in other parts of town. Many women who
have taken purses home to work on have been sur—
prised to find that their husbands have become in-
terested in the art and have themselves made
purses and belts.

There is something about bead work that grows
on one, and when a project is once started it is
hard to put it down until it is completed. Bead
products from our classes have been sent to all
parts of the country and bear labels indicating
that they are handmade and have come from
Springfield, Illinois. Many employees of local
business houses are members of our classes. They
are interested in learning to do the work so that
they may be able to repair commercial purses if
necessary. Many women have made pin money
selling their products.

Our office seems to have become the state head-
quarters for bead supplies, and we have sold beads
in all parts-of Illinois. This widespread interest
may have been due to our exhibit at the State
Fair when visitors asked that we hold classes in
bead work there. Much interest was aroused
when we demonstrated how simply the work
could be done and what attractive articles could
be made in a short time. So great was the demand
for articles that it seemed doubtful whether we
should be able to keep any on display at the fair!

Every day calls are received at our office re-
questing information on head craft, and many
people call in person to see the samples on display
and ask questions about them.

After two years of using wooden beads as a
handcraft project in our program we feel it is one
of the finest individual activities we have ever in-
troduced and developed.

New'Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Index to‘Handicrafts, Modelmaking

and Workshop Projects

Compiled by Eleanor Cook Lovell and Ruth Mason Hall.
The F. W. Faxon Company, Boston. $4.00.

HIS VERY CAREFULLY worked out index of articles on

handicraft is based on an extensive- collection of refer-
ences accumulated in the Minneapolis Public Library
during the past twelve years. It covers a field of mis-
cellaneous and hitherto unorganized material on handi-
crafts and amateur workshop projects. Only articles giv-
ing practical information and the necessary drawings or
diagrams for construction have been included.

The A B C of Attracting Birds

By Alvin M. Peterson. The Bruce Publishing Company,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. $1.50.

|F YOU ARE INTERESTED in birds and want to have them
as friends and neighbors, the suggestions of the bird
lover who wrote this book will go far to hell) you win
their friendship. Simple, inexpensive and sure ways to
attract the birds are to be found in this book which. gives
reasons for having birds, information regarding bird
baths, feeding and nesting boxes easy enough for anyone
to make, and facts telling how trees, bushes and vines
act as bird attractors—these are a few of the subjects
discussed. In the final chapter suggestions are given for
forming an effective bird sanctuary. There are many
attractive illustrations.

Collecting Stamps for Fun and Profit

By A. Frederick Collins. D. Appleton-Century COmpany,
New York. $2.00.

THIS IS NOT merely a book on stamp collecting for in it
Mr. Collins has traced the history of communication
from the days of the couriers and smoke signals to the
first public postal service. He has given us, too, informa-
tion regarding the intriguing process of engraving and
priang stamps. There is a wealth of information in
this book.

Motor Camping

By Porter Varney. Leisure League of America, New
York. $.25.

Now THAT AMERICA-has taken to wheels, such a prac-
tical booklet as Mr. Varney's Motor Camping is par-
ticularly timely. It tells where to go and what to see,
how and where to sleep, and gives suggestions for meals
and how to prepare them. The booklet also suggests how
to build and equip a trailer and discusses miscellaneous
equipment. If you find yourself suffering from an attack
of Wanderlust, this is the book for you!

The Community Handbook

By Alexander Nunn, Donis McIntosh and Elsie Orr
Echols. Young Folks’ Department, The Progressive
Farmer-Ruralist Company, Birmingham, Alabama.

$.25.
DESIGNED PARTICULARLY for the use of leaders in rural
districts, this booklet contains 224 pages of exceed-
ingly practical material. There are programs, party sug-
gestions, plays, games, songs, hints for community meet-
ings, information on parliamentary law and good man-
ners, suggestions for camping and first aid, and many other

subjects. Leaders of young people will find in this book-
let a wealth of information.

Guide to the Southern Appalachians

Publication No. 8. The Appalachian Trail Conference,
901 Union Trust Building, Washington, D. C. $1.00.

THIS VOLUME, completing the series of hve guide books

to the Appalachian Trail, takes us to the Southern
Appalachians. It is a pioneer publication since there have
been hitherto no available guides for this region. Many
sections covered in the guide have been previously over-

looked.

New Bodies for Old '

By Dorothy Nye. Funk & Wagnalls Company, New
York. $2.00.

HERE Is A VOLUME of 135 pages profusely illustrated by

pen and ink drawings in which is given the informa-
tion a woman needs for restoring or retaining a healthy,
symmetrical body. Correctional exercises are suggested
for difliculties of many types. The information is so de-
lightfully given that one is inspired to undertake the
régime suggested. Miss Nye is an authority on corrective
gymnastics. For five years she was associated with the

Physical Education Department of Barnard College, and
has worked with the National Board of the Y. W. C. A.

An Evaluation of a Plan for Character

Education -

By W. Bradford Bayliss, Ph.D. Bureau of Publications,
Teachers College, Columbia University. $1.60.

MR. X HAD AN experience in his boyhood which made
a lasting impression on his life. His Sunday School
superintendent caught him pitching pennies and suc—
ceeded in getting the boy to sign a pledge to abstain from
all kinds of gambling until he was twenty-one years of
age. This pledge proved to be very helpful to Mr. X
in his youth and early life, and when he later became-
wealthy he decided to established a Foundation to help
boys with character problems. The plan he set up offered

55

56 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

to each boy who would live up to a given pledge for
three years the sum of $200, to be used as the boy saw
fit. Each tboy selected a sponsor who was to be his guid-
ing star during the three years of testing. By the winter
of 1930-31 1200 bOys had completed the test and received
their awards; approximately 2500 more were in the en-
rollment test. The writer of this volume was asked by
the “Foundation” “to study the boys and the plan in
order to determine whether the latter was sound, how
well it was working, and whether it should be improved
or discarded."

The major portion of the book deals with the descrip—
tion and the working out of the plan. There were inter-
views with a sampling of boys, parents and sponsors;
the opinions of a group of experts in the field of religion
and character education were secured; references in cur-
rent writings in the field of religious and character edu-
cation were studied in their relation to the plan. Upon
the findings from these three sources the conclusions were
reached in regard to the value of the Foundation plan.

The major conclusion was that offering boys money
to be good does not work. 'Many people would have
guessed that in the beginning. This scientific study now
proves it, and that in itself is worth much to workers in
the field of character education. But the conclusion,
however important, is only one of the values of the book.
Its description of the research method is excellent. There
is much food for thought regarding pledges and awards
in general and in the selection, training and responsibili-
ties of sponsors. This book will probably lbe read widely
by persons interested in work with adolescents and in

instruments for promoting character growth—Reviewed
by E. C. Worman.

Nature Magazine's Guide to Science Teaching.

By E. Laurence Palmer, Director of Nature Education
of the American Nature Association and Professor of
Rural Education at Cornell University. Published and

gopyrighted by the American Nature Association, 1936.
1.00.

An enriching program provides access to a wide range
of supplementary material. I am glad that a recognized
leader in nature education has made the basic content
of the Nature Magazine available to teachers of elemen-
tary science. The excellent pictures of the magazine
have been included. The book is a guide and provides
for growth in ten major “realms.” The author freely
admits the limitations of a guide for one magazine. The
role of the publication is to supplement and enrich ex-
isting courses. As such, progressive teachers will wish
to add it to their kit.———William Gould Vinal, National
Recreation Association.

Catching Up with Housing.

By Carol Aronovici, Ph.D.. and Elizabeth McCalmont.
Beneficial Management Corporation, 15 Washington
Street, Newark, N. J. $2.00.

“An excellent bird’s-eye view of the housing problem
of great value as a primer for social workers, government
officials and students of housing,” is the comment of
Clarence L. Stein, architect, on this practical book which
is intended for the use of class study and for the public
interested in the improvement of housing conditions in
the United States. It contains data on all important
housing projects and the development of the housing
movement in this country during the last century. It
also suggests what might be done in the housing field.
The material is clearly classified and ably indexed.

Dogs.

By Alfred W. Meyer. Whittlesey House. McGraw-Hill
Book Company, Inc., New York. $2.50.

If dogs are your hobby, you will find this book on their
care and training breeds and selections full of interest.

List of Pageants and Plays for Children,
Young People and Adults.

Education Department, National Council for Prevention
of War, 532 Seventeenth Street, N. W., Washington,
D. C. $.10.

This extensive list has been carefully classified, ar-
ranged alphabetically and separately numbered under each
group, with notations as to occasions for which they are
particularly. apprOpriate. Brief information is given about
the theme, number of characters, playing time and pub-
lisher.

Child Labor Facts—1937.

National Child Labor Committee, 419 Fourth
Avenue, New York. $.25.

Facts which every citizen should know about the alarm-
ing extent of child labor will be found in a 31 page
pamphlet recently issued by the National Child Labor
Committee. It is a general informative booklet dealing
with the extent and present forms of child labor, the
status of child labor legislation. and the effects of prema-
ture employment on the physical and mental well-being
of children. It gives the factual background for anyone
interested in the problem.

The Story of Christmas.

By R. J. Campbell, D.D. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $3.00.

Canon-Campbell in retelling the Christmas story has
presented it in both its ancient and modern setting, and
has illustrated it with materials drawn from a number of
periods. There are old Christmas customs, modern
Christmas stories, carols and Christmas verse. The selec-
tions chosen have been drawn from a vast amount of
literature on the subject, and it is Canon Campbell’s hope
that readers will be stimulated to explore this fascinating
field for themselves.

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS'

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRsv, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

1'

DIRECTORS

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
CLARENCE M. CLARK, Philadelphia, Pa.

HENRY L. CORDETT, Portland, Ore. 0
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, TucsOn, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON-HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. FRANCIS DELACY HYDE, Plainfield, N. J.
GUSTAvus T. KIRsv, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDoN, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

JOSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass. .

EDWARD E. Looms, New York, N. Y.

J. H. MCCURDT, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New YOrk, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WAREURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

