Clarence M. Clark

LARENCE M. CLARK, as a member of the Board of Directors,

C gave generously of himself and of his time day after day in

the work of the National Recreation Association. No detail

was overlooked. No pains were too great if he could advance the

recreation movement. He gave the same care to working on the prob—

lems of the Association that he gave to his private business. He
avoided all recognition for himself.

He gladly accepted responsibility for the money—raising eiforts
for the Association in Philadelphia, not hesitating to ask others to
contribute because he was giving generously himself. He helped in
calling upon other public-spirited citizens to talk about the work.
He refused on certain occasions to take on other responsibilities be-
cause as he stated, “I am afraid that would interfere with,my work
for the National Recreation Association which must come first."

He looked after the investment of funds bequeathed to the As-
sociation. Not only did he attend Board meetings and committee
meetings regularly for more than twenty—one years—he also gave
time to individual conferences. Of his own initiative he came fre-
quently to the ofEces of the Association to run.over problems and
gi.Ve encouragement to the staff. To the members of the staff who

worked with him he was always as a kind father.

The field of sport and its values he knew from active participa-
tion. He had been one of the nation’s leading tennis players.

‘ Most of all Mr. Clark helped by what he was, carrying always
a rare spirit that made association with him a delight. The memory

of service with him will always be treasured by his associates. His
life gave out no confused note. There was nothing hidden. He so
'lived that all had more confidence in the common life of humanity.

 

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

AUGUST1937

 

275

Recreation—a Factor in Helping
Maladjusted Individual

0 UNDERSTAND what is meant by emotionally
T maladjusted, it should be clearly stated that

emotions are currents which become part of
all human functioning. They are similar to elec-
tric currents fiowing from battery to bulb, or
from dynamo to some part of the machine. Emo-
tions are to human life what power and heat and
light are to machinery, the source of all forms of
current. An individual would, therefore, be emo-
tionally balanced when his currents of power,
warmth and heat are working so well that he
could meet various situations of life successfully
and, if I may use the term, more gracefully. If
adjustment is the metabolism of human life,
basic to all normal living, maladjustment is the
disfunctioning of this process and results in dif-
ficulties surrounding work, love or social contacts.

Variability of Individuals and Their
Emotional Problems

If you accept these concepts of emotion and
maladjustment you will readily see that the forms
of emotional maladjustment are as different and
manifold as individuals themselves are varied. In-
dividuals diHer not only as to physical type but
even as to the type of rhythm they employ in
meeting life. \Vhen the rhythm is disturbed we
say the individual is maladjusted. We mean by
this to say that either within the individual him—
self or in his social and community contacts dif-
hculties exist which militate to make this indi-
vidual unhappy.

Sources of Maladjustment

The first source of emotional maladjustment, in
my opinion, is to be found in the type of the indi-
vidual himself, in the functioning and structure of
his own body-mind. It seems to be true that almost
every individual is born with one or more inferior
organs. This may be in the circulatory system, in
the digestive apparatus or in the reproductive
organs, but wherever the function and structure
of the individual is faulty there seems to result
some fault in adjustment.

The second source of maladjustment I have
found to be in the racial background. Here we
know again that many people emigrating from one

276

By I. M. ALTARAZ, Pb.D.

‘ Dr. Altaraz. who is founder and
director of the Altaraz School for I
Personality Development at Great
Barrington. Massachusetts. gave
this paper at a meeting of the

New Jersey State Recreation Ex-
ecutivesI Association held in April.
Dr. Altaraz has contributed before
to RECREATION. The April I935
issue contained an article by him
entitled "Planning for Recreation."

 

country to another find it difhcult to adjust the1
selves to new conditions. Even within the sa

country we often see members of old famili
hnding it very trying to accept certain forms a
dynamic living. That is why we have witness
the growth of suburbs or areas of segregati
within the city where pe0p1e establish themselv
in neighborhoods because of the same racial t
family characteristics.

The third source of maladjustment is to I i
found in the process of learning, or what may I
termed academic education. It is generally a
cepted that the scholastic curriculum is based c
the idea that all human beings from kindergart
to university are able to absorb and respond
the same outlines of study and academic requir
ments. But experience shows that the learni1
capacity of every child may be different not on
as to the quantity of knowledge he can absorb b
as to variety of subject. Certainly the failure ( I
scholastic curricula to meet these differences r -|
sults in emotional maladjustment.

As the fourth source of maladjustment we 1'
in the home conditions into which the individu _,
is born. Many a child is born into a home e
vironment which is not helpful to the unfoldir
of his own potentialities. Into a family of colle :
graduates concentrating on academic aspiratio

b

   
  
   
 

I RECREATION—A FACTOR IN HELPING MALADJUSTED INDIVIDUALS 277

who“! often we find a child born whose best contri-
bution to the world will not be in academic areas.
“Similarly, in law-abiding families we find destruc—
, tive and delinquent children. We cannot say it is
:the fault of the parents, and certainly it is no fault
“of the child, but the rhythm of living of each in—
'jdividual is so uniquely personal that an unwilling-
lness on his part to give up his own interests and
| o accept fully the patterns of his environment
. gain causes first, conflict, and then maladjustment.

Another source of maladjustment lies in the ad-
justments pertaining to growth from childhood
hrough adulthood on to old age. Whatever new
situations the human dynamo has to meet may be
a new source or cause of emotional disturbance;
disharmony or uncertainty, whether in school,
love, marriage or job finding, may cause real feel-
ings of uncertainty and unhappiness.

The sixth source of emotional maladjustment
may be discovered in the form of the community
that we live in, whether it be urban or rural. The
organization of the community, the activities go—
ing on there, and the opportunities it offers make
either for greater or lesser balancing of emotional
life as they provide leaders and outlets to meet

the needs of those who are a part of it.

Diagnostic Indications of Maladjustment

Since we have defined what we mean by emo—
tional maladjustment and given some attention to
the sources fron} which it may arise, we are now
ready to recognize that the particular tendencies
of the individual, as well as his interests, goals and
his general environment, are of great importance
in the establishment of emotional balance. To the
degree that we understand that individuals cannot

' be placed in categories merely descriptive of their
obvious characteristics and also that latent inter—
ests, unused abilities, functional disturbances, tem-
peramental reactions are of the greatest diagnos-
tic value, only to that degree can we hope to suc-

cessfully guide and adapt the situation to meet
the needs.

Some Accepted Methods of,
Handling Emotional
Maladjustment

Let us look at a few accept-
ed methods in the handling of
emotional maladjustment. We
think immediately of the use
of the home, school, psychia-
trist, 'psychologist and social

"Recreation is a process in directing
human energies into creative and
satisfying channels. As such it deals
with the discovery of outlets for sur-
plus energies. not only for the pur-
pose of keeping some one out of mis-
chief. but also with the intention of
finding personal satisfaction for the
individualI a legitimate satisfaction
which will lead him into many forms
of adjustment and a happy |ife.'I

agency. Depending on one’s economic status as
well as one’s knowledge of community resources
we have always thought in terms of handling emo»

"tional maladjustment through clinics, sanatoria,

visiting teachers, visiting nurses, special schools
and a whole battery of agencies well known to
you.

I wish to make my feeling in this matter very
clear. I am fully aware of the value which your
present ,varied approaches have in diagnosing,
guiding and treating maladjusted individuals. But
I am also aware of the great limitations put upon
you by pressure of time and general economic
conditions. We must consider the relative resis—
tance to change that most homes offer; the condi—
tions of overcrowding and time limitations in
schools, and the tendency to use a diagnostic label
as an end in itself rather than as a point of de—
parture for treatment.

Now let us look at a new—and yet very old—
tool in the handling of emotional maladjustment.
Let us remember that recreation is not a super-
imposed technique of living but a very old law of
life itself. We find it expressed in various ways
throughout the history of man. In the'rest and
vegetation periods of plant life we see nature us—
ing recreation as a tool. In animal life we have
only to spend a day with a herd of cattle to see
animal life recreating itself. Man, too, has an old
and long history in his use of recreation. At dif—
ferent times and through different periods it has
been used differently. In recent times recreation
has become identified with relaxation and leisure.
Unfortunately, however, leisure still tends to be
the right of only a privileged group and so it be-
comes our great concern to not only enlarge the
group privileged to enjoy recreation but to mul-
tiply the forms and experiences of recreation.
Must we not also see that even if we were able to
give leisure to 50% more of the population, a
knowledge of how to use this leisure would be
wanting? We are therefore today talking of a
most important need of mod-
ern life and focusing our atten-
tion on how we may develop
recreation not only as a re-
source that is complementary to
other tools now used but as a
dynamic, integral part of life.

A New Concept of Recreation

A cardinal principle which
seems to me of tremendous

278 RECREATION— -A PAC TOR IN HELPING J’IALADJUSTED INDIVIDUALS

importance is that
recreation can
never be found
separated f r om
occupation, voca-
tion or what is
generally termed
one’s daily life
work. \Ve all
know that work is
a blessing and a
natural need of
the human nor-
mally functioning
body—just as nat-
ural as food, wa-
ter, sunshine or
sleep. The plan of
nature calls for a
healthy body plus
work and recrea-
tion.
Theoretically,
work was always
meant to be creative or productive of something
within the capacity of the individual. But instead
we find that it tends to become only a means of
making a living, a drudgery. Recreation therefore
becomes a necessity as a matter of mental health
and social adjustment. It is true to an amazing
extent that people who are using creativeness in
their daily work do not really need recreation, in
its ordinary meaning, except for occasional replen-
ishment of their energies through food, air, sleep
and social exchange." Whereas for people whose
energies are used mechanically and uncreatively,
recreation becomes a matter of absolute necessity,
of life and death. We find among the industrial
workers, the white collar class, laborers, house-
workers, nUrses, even teachers and social work-
ers, a constant need to create something which
they always wished to dowsomething outside of
their work. For them it is not sufficient to supply
activity programs, neither is it enough to offer
lectures and courses called adult education, al-
though no one denies their value. I feel very
keenly that recreation must be something more,
something more personal and essential to them.
Here one thinks of gardening, raising of poultry,
care and breeding of animals, wood carving,
modelling, pottery, weaving. For some, learning
to play an instrument, choral singing, drama,
dance, photography, painting, interior decoration

- A? a: _,,
-;- l ’ ~  x _
...- '. ' 5  .
'_ -   . " __ m .2 
’ ’ " n F x 4'“ ’o i: G“
. ‘c-‘.>_r A -. r- _. .- -V

Courtesy Milwaukee Department of Municipal Recreation and Adult Education

 

, .5 . V
I 7' ' . x \ r i
’g.,, “2va  3 ram”...

These boys have discovered that stem
collecting offers a fascinating hobb

are among these personal experiences which ma
be used so effectively as recreation. Over an
over again it has been shown to be true that wor
shops rather than lecture rooms result in deep]

satisfying recreational experiences. ‘

Adult and Child Recreation l

When one thinks of recreation specifically an
not generally, one differentiates between recrea
tion for the adult and recreation for child. Her
again it is to be understood that every period 0
life, the pre-school period, adolescence, middl
age, have their own needs which must be under—
stood f.rom the'recreational point of view. -

Let us consider for a moment the recreationa
needs of the adolescent, whose energies must be!l
utilized. The adolescent has been analyzed as an-
individual detached from the social group as 3.”
whole, but the solution of his adolescent problem's .

_ must be found in terms of group activity. Youtli a

tells us this itself by organizing into groups of l
gangs, scouts or secret societies, when left alon i
to its own resources. Proper leadership ought to i
foster these expressions through mass meeting 
either in school buildings or in large public halls] ‘l
Here registration should be made, asking that

it

l1

 
 
 
  
         
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 

youth their interests and desires, how they would
like to spend leisure time, what their past experi-
, ences in recreation have been. Then large tracts
of land should be oiTered for cultivation, wood—
hnd for clearing and for chopping down dead
tl‘ees, and opportunity given to construct buildings
dn this tract. What joy and readiness for these
projects I have seen! Boys want to feel their
illuscles grow and want to go home with the feel—
iajig of achievement.

_ j For those who show interest in collecting
stamps, coins, stones, insects, or plants, recreation
leaders should not only be available to guide these
interests but alert to anticipate such needs even if
unexpressed. Subjects such as woodcarving, pot-
tery, metal and leather work, weaving, painting
and drawing, call for studios with competent
teachers and usable materials. Choral singing, the
playing of musical instruments, group or solo
dancing, drama, all meet the daily needs of the
adolescent. Exhibitions, recitals, pageants should
be given frequently so as to give youth-its oppor—
tunity to show off in a wholesome and legitimate
way. I have developed my own phrase for this—-
“legalizing illegal impulses.” We all recognize that
expenditures connected with such a programme
would cost the community far less than the time
Wasted, money spent and human energies used
" thus far to repair maladjusted youth.

Adolescent needs for recreation can be handled
a; in groups as well as on an individual basis. I am
thinking here of- an experiment that took place
under my supervision and guidance in a large pub-
lic school situated in Lee, Massachusetts.

It was only a year ago that in a school of 900
children, from 200 to 300
children were found to
1 be anxious to get to-
gether e v e r y Saturday
morning to experience
creative adventures of
the kind I have been de-
l scribing. Officially, the
' experiment was called
; the “hobby classes.”
Through a period of a
school year every Satur—
day morning the children
gathered in an old gym—
4; nasium, distributing
.themselves as they wish-
ed at separate tables, cov—
ering about twenty dif-

l
l

   
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
   

At the recent International Labor Office Con-
terenceI Harold Butler. its directorI pled for a
shorter working week because of the need for
greater leisure and more sport. He urged that
the nervous strain caused by machines on the
human organism made this necessary. The nerv-
ous organism has been built up over tens of
thousands of years to meet conditions in which
no human being could move faster than a horse.
Now all this is changed. I'England became the
tirst sporting country,''
"not because the English had a peculiar gift
for ball games, but because they were the first
to be called on to resist the impact of urban
industrialism. Sport is a substitute for physical
exercise which manual labor used to provideI
or which the eighteenth century merchant or
lawyer obtained by riding about his business on
horseback."—New York Times, June l5. I937.

Dr. Butler suggested,

RECREATION—A FACTOR IN HELPING MALADIUSTED INDIVIDUALS 279

'feren‘t arts and crafts. In the middle of the floor
gathered those who were not interested in manual
expressions, but were interested in physical ac-
tivity as it developed through folk dancing and
ballet dancing. Those who were interested either
in choral or solo singing assembled around the
piano. Others were working on puppets, mar— '
lonettes, wood and soap carving, painting, draw-
ing, bookbinding, modelling, embroidering and
crocheting. Out of this group a professional com-
pany of puppeteers was established which is still
active and successful. Many children still con-
tinue these crafts and artistic interests in their
homes. During that winter of 1935-36 a few pub-
lic demonstrations were given before audiences of
a few hundred people. Parents, teachers and com-
munity leaders all took part in the fascinating
recreational project.

Recreation for Maladjusted Individuals

I have kept you waiting along time to share
with you my own experiences in the use of recre—
ation as a special technique in solving emotional
maladjustment. You will recognize that I have
done this purposely so that all of us will focus
our energies and talents on the use of recreation
as an unrecognized tremendous force in the preven-
tion of maladjustment. You. will remember that I
used as an illustration a moment ago both indi-
vidual as well as group work with adolescents in
this preventive sense. If we, now think in terms of
recreation as a remedy for already developed mal-
adjustment, I would like to have you consider
this principle—that recreation as a technique in
handling already developed maladjustment is the

‘\ process of redirecting
into creative and satisfy-
ing channels energies
functioning in a disin-
tegrating manner. I have
a number of illustrations
for you to consider in
terms of not only the
described situation but
also in terms. of the un-
derlying concept.

I recall an individual
who had to handle or
t o u c h everything that
came within his sight.
When there were not
enough things around
him he began to annoy

280 RECREATION—A FACTOR IN HELPING IlIALADIUSTED INDIVIDUALS

and tease people. It oc-
curred to me that plaste-
line and clay are interest-
ing materials which hu-
man hands may handle,
form, transform, mishan-
dle, in 'a constructive way.
It was pliable, plastic ma-
terial. It gave in. And
sure enough, as soon as
this material was put into
the hands of that individ-
ual, he discovered that
there was such a thing as
satisfying the desire to
press, form and handle something without harm.
and injury, and with great personal satisfaction.
This discovery of legitimate satisfaction of his
own illegal impulses led this individual into many
more forms of adjustment and re—education.

I remember another individual who loved to
intiict pain either through his talk or by physical
aggressiveness. Here wood-carving and hammer-
ing into metal with proper tools, carving satisfied
his repressed emotions to such an extent that he
ceased to continue his anti—social behavior.

The need to make faces, stick out one’s tongue,
and the displaying of deformities of the extremi-
ties suggest the fostering of fantastic or descrip-
tive dancing. Dramatic interests and a desire to
act may be another outlet for such evidences of
maladjustment. We must recognize that by re-
leasing through drama, pantomime, mimicry and
comedy the surplus energy which is expressed in
anti-social forms, we'legalize the need and pro-
vide a stimulating, growing and satisfying reac-
tion in the individual. H

One thinks in this connection of the frequently
encountered lonely individual maladjusted as to
his social amiability. His characteristics may be
described as sulkiness, or day-dreaming, or book-
ishness. Experience shows us that a successful
start may be made to re—orient him if he can be
made to transfer the energies he consumes within
himself to something in the real world outside of
himself. The dreamy girl who sits for hours look-
ing at faraway hills is offered a little patch of
land not too close to the main house where she
tries to raise a few flowers. Watering them, nurs-
ing them, the flowers finally grow, and soon she
approaches us with a gift—a handful of posies.
Others, too, soon receive gifts from her garden,
and finally we see her sufficiently cured of her

A MESSAGE TO RECREATION WORKERS

"All of you here today are engaged in the
recreation field or in some allied area. DoeS'
it sometimes occur to you that if we are to
believe in the value of creative personal ex-
perience for others we must enjoy these ex-
periences ourselves? How many of you here
today have experienced the personal glow of
recreating yourself through a minuetl an hour
at clay modellingl or an afternoon with paint
and brush and easel? l exhort you not only
on behalf of those you help professionally, but
on behalf of your own health' growth and hap-
pinessI to embark immediately on the glorious
adventure of creative personal experiences
through recreation."—Dr. Altaraz.

' to her duties at home; irked with the business .

  
 
  
        
   
  

former interest in herse
only to the extent that s
is the leader of a sm
class in gardening.

One more example—-
is difficult to resist goi
through the long list
those whom I have se
grow strong and well
the wings of recreation
I remember clearly a you
woman who came to
in a most unhappy' fra
of mind and in a mis
ably run-down physi
condition. A competent housewife, an energe
mother, a devoted wife, she was finding herself,
the time of our first contact, full of resentment

mands on her husband and irritated by her you
ster’s vivacious personality. She was tired
planning meals, washing dishes, darning soc
and asking her husband “how everything wa
She had lost her interest in keeping her hair o
derly; she didn’t care 'whether she said “go
morning” or not to her next door neighbor. S
knew well enough that the possibilities for hap
ness were numerous, but was too indifferent,
seemed, to care to do anything about it.

We recognized from the start that some me
cal care was needed. We also helped her husb
to appreciate the part that physical tiredness pl
ed in her mental 'and emotional maladjustm
We released her for three hours each aftern
from every care and worry. But in addition v
providing her with leisure we learned that she
wished from the time she was 15 years old t
she could give a good deal of time to the st l
and pursuit of music. A piano was found .
some old music books were dug out of the tru
First an hour a day, then two and three at I
piano.

The end of one year presents to you a new p
ture. Housework is done efficiently and willing
a system of meal planning and preparing has b
developed which permits a two—hour free peri
every afternoon for piano or attendance at an I j
casional concert. Even the baby has been he -
to pick out a few notes while his. mother cooks 
sews. Our friend has released from within h '
self a tremendous current of unused energy. S 

has “re-created” herself through recreation. ;
(Continued on page 325) ,5

. 
O"

y

 

The Park Conservation Program

stand thoroughly the

aims and objects of
the park conservation
program which is being
carried out under the supervision of the National
Park Service in cooperation with various federal
relief agencies, states and local communities, we
must know something of the social and economic
factors which made such a program necessary. It
was not born over night, nor of the brain of any

IF WE ARE to under—

one man or group of men. It is the outgrowth of _

fundamental human needs. It is an effort to meet
those needs. It. is tied up intimately with several
movements that are to have tremendous signifi-
cance in the future of American life. These
movements, and the forces that brought them into
existence, must have a word of explanation if we
are to grasp the full import of the nation—wide
park conservation program.

You have no doubt heard it said that this is the
fastest age any generation has ever seen. It is
almost as though the law of gravitation had sud—

The aims of“ the park conservation pro-
gram are offered as an antidote to the
devastating Speed of our modern life

denly become the law of
modern civilization, that
our forward speed is
accelerated at the rate
of so many new inven-
tions, new social and economic fads and panaceas,
so'many new records smashed and old precedents
broken per day or week or year. “That’s line,” we
say. “That’s progress. Man must go forward else
he and the civilization he has created will stagnate,
degenerate.”

But the more thoughtful are beginning to see
the dangers of too much speed. In the mad
race to get ahead we are liable to lose our sense
of values, and instead of progressing on to
liner and better things, to the Utopia that has
been man’s dream since the beginning of time,
we may be creating a Frankenstein which will
end up by destroying us. Occasionally there is
need to pause and take stock, as the wise
merchant does; a pause now and then to con-
sider values might save many a futile chase
after false Utopias.

 

Courtesy Parks and Recreation

281

282 THE PARK CONSERVATION PROGRAM

Keeping Civilization on an Even Keel

In seeking a stabilizing force to help keep
civilization on an even keel in its mad rush to-
ward the promised land, our philosophers of
wise living have seized on one of the products
of our speeded-up economic system, the prod-
uct called by the pessimist, unemployment, by
the optimist, leisure. You have heard about
“the challenge of the new leisure.” Certainly it
has been headlined enough during the last few
years. It has been singled out as a great“ social
problem, which, if not solved, will destroy the
very foundation of our civilization; it has been
embraced as the great social opportunity which,
if wisely used, can solve most if not all our ills,
from depressions to world wars.

This new leisure is the result of man’s phe-
nominal progress in improving his methods
of production. These improved methods have
enabled him, in fact they have forced him, to
shorten working hours; they are credited with
being the prime factor reSpon—
sible for his unemployment
problem. However that may
be, no one disputes that they
have, in one way or another,
increased many fold man’s
total leisure time, thereby
compelling him to modify and
in some instances completely to abandon his
pioneer doctrine that idleness is a sin and that
the truly virtuous and faithful will find gainful
occupation for every waking moment.

By compelling him to accept this leisure it
has presented him with a problem which, it is
generally recognized, may become a social lia—
bility, but which, on the other hand, if properly
used, may become a tremendous force in man’s
progress toward the happy and contented life
that has, consciously or unconsciously, been
his goal whether he be a Utopian dreamer or a
hard-fisted seeker after wealth.

Every sane man wants to be happy. Some
philosopher has said that the success of a man’s
life should be measured entirely by the yard-
stick of happiness, the happiness he gets out of
living and the happiness he contributes to the
lives of others. Some men are happy only at
work, but that is because they have never
learned how to play. Man should be happy at
his job, but his interests should not be so con—
fined that he must be engaged in it all his wak-

.ing hours in order to avoid the misery and

Mr. Robinson' Recreation Planner
in Region On'e. National Park Ser-
vice. delivered this address at the
dedication of Laurel Hill Rec-
reational Demonstration Project
at Somerset, Pennsylvania.

   
 
  
 
 
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  

boredom of loneliness. Too many men eith
have never known how to play or else have fo
gotten. He who is so unfortunate is going
find himself a misfit in this new life of short
working hours and more abundant leisure whi
the speed of progress has forced on him.
ready we hear the argument being raised on
sides that society, through the state, must
cept the responsibility for teaching man how
use his‘ leisure time wisely, just as, in the
days of the American nation society undert
to teach man how to better use his latent a
ties in the struggle to produce the necess
of life, then a real struggle, one that left 1
time for play. We hear it said, further, that
only mustlsociety teach man how to use wi
the leisure it is forcing on him, but that it
provide him an opportunity to exercise
knowledge, an opportunity to play the ga
he likes to play, to pursue the hobby which
become the absorbing interest of those ho
he spends away from the j
to hike, study nature as
made it, unmolested by
hand of man, to enjoy the so
tude, the grandeur, the 501
healing tonic of the wild
ness, to participate in dra
and to sing, dance and live
the great out-of—doors.

Leisure, under this. new conception, is t
raw stuff from which all art, all play, ever
thing that makes a life conscious of itself, m
come. Leisure affords man the opportunity
escape once in a while from the clamor a
hubbub of the civilization he has created, a
to seek, as a healing tonic, the peaceful solitu
of the wilderness. Some measure of direct co
tact with the forces of nature, some visible a
comprehensive act of wisdom in cooperati
with the soil is part of the heritage and inalie
able right of every man. This is the God-giv
right that our profligate civilization has threa
ened to destroy. The American pioneer w
constantly at grips with nature, and we are t
sons and daughters of these pioneers, wi
their heritage strong in us. The strength th
is in us stems from the soil, but if we are t‘ol
preserve that strength, if we, are to pass it qri
to succeeding generations, we must also pre-
serve and pass on to them the opportunity If)
renew this strength at the source from whigh,

it came. \
i 

r

THE PARA (.‘U-V.‘>1.-Ri .xj‘nm PROGRAM 283

 

Courtesy Parks and Recreation

"Some measure of direct contact with the

Importance of Conserva-
tion Realized

The use of this new lei- '
sure for man’s benefit, therefore, ties in with
another movement of national significance, a
movement to "conserve our natural resources
from the destructive exploitation of a civiliza-
tion bent largely on the accumulation of ma-
terial wealth. It was back during the adminis-
tration of the first Roosevelt that the word con-
servation was first headlined. Thoughtful peo-
ple began to be alarmed by the rapidity with
which our natural resources were being ex-'
hausted. “We must conserve these resources,”
they declared, “we must jump in and help
nature restore as' many of them as can be re-
stored, else we will wake up some tragic morn-
ing to find ourselves bankrupt.”

We began to think of our heritage "of tre—
mendous natural wealth, once believed inex-
haustible, as something precious which must
not be recklessly squandered. We began to de-
plore the millions of acres of denuded timber
land, the eroded fields, once so fertile. the
rapidly vanishing wildlife, and the destruction
of scenic and wilderness areas which were our
only remaining retreats from the clamor and
congestion of our daily lives. Nor have we

forces of nature is part of the heritage
rand the inalienable right of every man.'I

been content to view with
alarm and to deplore. Steps
have been taken. Great
areas of land have been purchased or otherwise
acquired for forest and game preserves, for na-
tional, state, and, in some instances, county
and municipal parks. A soil conservation pro-
gram, far-reaching in scope, has been started.
A wide scale study of land uses has been un-
dertaken. A program to retire sub-marginal
farm lands from cultivation so that they may
be put to a more appropriate use has been
launched.

The park conservation program is. a vital
part of this movement to conserve our rich
heritage of natural resources; it is also a vital
part of the movement to conserve humanity
from the devitalizing effects of a congested and
highly geared civilization. It seeks to link
these two conservation movements so that they
may be used in solving the problem of man’s
increasing leisure. It recognizes that our areas
of scenic grandeur, our wilderness retreats, our

' rivers and lakes and stretches of ocean beaches,

our native forests and wild life—that these are
a priceless heritage which must be preserved
for the generations that are to follow after us;
that through these natural resources man may

284 THE PARK CONSERVATION PROGRAM

continue his close association with nature, an
association indispensable to his health and hap-
piness. And, finally, it _recognizes that man’s
increasing leisure and .his rapidly improving
methods of transportation enable him as never
before to escape the congestion of cities and
intensified farming areas into the nation’s wil-
derness playgrounds, and that it is the duty of
society, functioning thrdugh the nation, the
states and local government units, to provide
an abundance of such playgrounds. .

It recognizes that there is. a need for many
types of outdoor recreational opportunities;
that some people like to spend their leisure
hiking wilderness trails as far from civilized
haunts as they can get, while others may want
to join in the primitive community life of an
organized camp; that there are those, rapidly
increasing inntimbers, who want to load their
cars with knock-down tents, bedding, cooking
equipment and take to the highways, depend-
ing on public park camp grounds in the heart

of Wilderness areas for their nightly retreats ;.

that some want to play golf, swim, drowse on
a sun-drenched ocean beach, while others in-

dulge such hobbies as nature study, stalking~

wildlife with a camera, or collecting geological
specimens; that there are those who get a soul-
satisfying thrill out of gazing from mountain
peaks over immense stretches of rugged terrain
or in viewing natural wonders, such as the
geysers 0f the Y‘ellowstone, while many others
enjoy browsing over battlefields or in visiting
the homes of our hero patriots.

Efforts are being made, therefore, to provide
opportunities for the expression of these varied
leisure time predilections. Our national parks
and monuments represent an effort on the part
of the federal government to conserve areas
which, because of their
unique scenic and wilder-
ness resources, or their
association with important
events or characters in
American history, are of
national significance. Such
areas, for example, are
those which include the
Grand Canyon of the C010-
rado, Yosemite, the Great
Smoky Mountains, the
Gettysburg battlefield and
the home ofGeorge Wash-

"This park, together with its many sisters
which are‘ coming to completion in every
part of our land' is in the largest sense a
work of conservation. Through all of them
we are preserving the beauty and the wealth
of the hills and the mountains and the plains
and the trees and the streams. Through all “ it from stern necessity. If
of them we are maintaining useful work for
our young men. Through all of them we are
enriching the character and happiness of

our people. We seek to pass on to our chil-
dren a richer land—a stronger nation."-——

President Roosevelt in his address at the
dedication of Shenandoah National Park.

  
   

ington. The states contribute their part by
conserving recreational and wildlife areas and

historical monuments of state-wide interest,
which, because they are near at hand and there-
fore accessible the year around, or because they
represent important events and characters in
the state’s history, {ill a vital place in the na—

tion-wide park and recreation program.

Another important phase of this need for
outdoor' recreational facilities is being cared for
by many of our more progressive counties and
municipalities. On their parks and their play-
grounds children and adults not only may in-
dulge, to ,\a limited degree, their.urge to do all
those things they may do on a much larger
scale in national and state parks, but in addi-
tion they may engage in many activities not
ordinarily offered on the more extended areas,
such as, for example, organized sports..

Camping Opportunities
There is another development in this nation-

wide park conservation program which I have
purposely left until the last to discuss. It has

as a primary objective the providing of more

abundant camping facilities for both children
and adults.

What are some of the values to be derived
from such an activity? ' '

The very activity of camping is not only a
splendid and soul-satisfying recreation, but it
is the only way now open to a, great majority
of our people to renew their contacts with the
peace-beguiling forces of nature. By far the
larger portion of us are doomed by economic
necessity to live in congested cities with only
a few days, a few weeks, perhaps, out of each
year free from the task of earning a livelihood.
Whatever values we get from living with na-
ture, therefore, must come
through camping. The
trouble with most of us is
that we have never had a
chance to learn how really
to camp. Camping is an
art. Our forefathers knew

they hadn’t known how to
camp, they would never6
have conquered the vast
wilderness that lay ahead
of them when they landed

(Continued on page 325)

 

‘ Where They Sail
Their Own!

By

LILAS MIDDLED’ITCH
Long Beach. California

ACHT OWNERS begin “sailing their own” at the
Yage of nine in Long Beach, California, under
‘ the supervision_0f the Recreation Commis-
sion’s division of aquatics, whose chief, Frank M.
Davenport, was active in western waters almost
as soon as he could walk. °

Under the instruction of Harold L. Teel, now
president of the Southern California Model Yacht
Racing Association, boys work at model yacht
building in the Commission’s free boat shop dur—
ing their leisure hours every day except Sunday
throughout the year. Each Saturday morning they
race their craft on a nearby lagoon for points
which count toward sundry trophies awarded an-
nually or semi-annually.

No special effort is made to secure members
for their Long Beach Model Yacht Club. Small
Bobby sees young Fred’s self-made boat and he
wants one, so he joins the group of miniature
yacht builders. Bigger Bill watches Earl race his
model on the lagoon, adjacent to the marine sta-
dium where the tenth Olympiad’s crew races were
held in 1932, and Bill gets busy making himself a
possible trophy winner.-

Last year 238 model yachts were made in the
boat shop as well as some forty museum pieces
illustrating the evolution of transportation boats
from the log that had to be paddled with human
hands to the modern schooners' used on the Great
Lakes and along the California coast;

Usually a young builder begins with a twelve
inch model which he may sail in beginners’ con—
tests across the short end of the lagoon. Soon he
is eager to make an 18” model, then a 20”, and
finally a 24”, with any of which he may compete
for the Press Telegram trophy awarded annually
at Long Beach’s"big races held over each Labor
Day week-end. Meanwhile the happily active
youngster has acquired muscular coordination and
has learned correct methods of handcraft from

 

An eleven-year-old member
of the Long Beach Model

Yacht Racing Association
whose Marblehead 50” model

is nearing completion

Director Teel and his staff of instructors. He can
do a good paint job. He can turn out a piece of
work of which he may well be proud.

Ambition mounts and the boy constructs a 30”
model, followed, it may be, by a Southern Cali-
fornia 40/ 700 (meaning 40” over all and 700
square inches of sail) ; possibly he graduates with
a Marblehead (50/800). With one of these he
may enter the Labor Day race for the Elks’ per-
petual trophy, if he has qualified by earning suf-
ficient points in Saturday competitions.

April of this year saw seventy-two boys and six
girls competing with men in Long Beach’s annual
4000 meter model yacht races on the marine sta-
dium. And one member of the club made record
time with his “F leetwood,” a Southern California
40”! As usual there were three races sailed. And
all were won by models built by boys! Four other
LBMYC yachts placed, one being the handiwork

(Continued on page 326)
285

 
  
     

A Summer Recreation Program in Action

N EXTENSIVE PROGRAM of recreational
activities is under way this summer

in Palo Alto, California. Free
classes in puppetry, rhythmics. paper
craft, music, tap dancing, boat building,
carpentry and clay'modeling are offered
at the Community Center, Rinconada and
El Camino Parks, and at four different
school play areas. Groups in acrobatics
. and tumbling meet regularly under the
direction of a city recreation leader.
Model sailboat regattas are unique in
Palo Alto. Boys and girls who construct
small yachts are given an opportunity
every two weeks to {ind out how sea-

‘Vorthy the” craft 1.5 py Competing m real I In the course of the summer season youn
regattas at' the mun1c1pal yacht harbor. Sometimes yach+smen of palo AHO are given sever

the reward to the winners is a day’s trip around oppor+uni+ies +9 compe+e in real regaH
the bay in a large yacht. All of the boats are
built in the boat—building classes conducted on the

\\\\\\ y 7

O

playgrounds.
_. The Children’s Museum
The Children’s Theater The Palo Alto Children’s Museum is an educ

The third annual Children’s Theater Summer tional and recreational center created in 193
SChOOl opened for a Six Weeks, PeriOd 0“ JUIY.6th- through the efforts of a group of forward-lookin
A Small fee is Charged 'fOI' these COUTSCS to Cover and progressive citizens, assisted by the city’s Re
costs of classes in commercial and creative art, reation Department and some of its 13}; commi
junior drawing and coloring, naturecraft, mask- tees_ The Museum is now housed in one of t1
making, OFChCStI‘a, play-acting, mOdel set bUild- school buildings where groups of children enjoy i
ing, stagecraft, stage dressing, music appreciation. fine exhibits and form clubs to develop their pa
FrenCh' Conversation and play-acting, play-writ- ticular interests or hobbies. These include group
ing, and pottery making. Major productions in in habitat construction, tree and bird study, inse
the Children’s Theater this summer include: and stamp collecting, 505p modding, sketchi
“Master Skylark,” “Sleep- and hiking. Informal 1e
ing Beauty,” “The Stead- tures and talks, illustrat 0

fast Tin Soldier,” “Puss ’n
Boots” and “The Parrot of
the Little Princess.” In ad—
dition to these there are in—
formal s t u d i 0 programs
every Wednesday morning.

by moving pictures a ‘
slides, add greatly to the i1
terest of the Museum.

Swimming and Other
Sports

The municipal recreatio 1
department has the manage—c
ment and supervision of thi l
high school swimming poo
for the summer. Girls ma g
swim in the mornings an‘:
boys in the afternoons. One L

_  ‘ _ ‘ (Continued on page 326) 
286 '
l

Making and dressing puppets
is an activity meeting with
a great deal of enthusiasm
among the girls who attend
Community Center classes

|
a

 

 

Reading in the Open Air

EADING has a nat-
R ural place in any

recreational pro-
gram, either for the
individual or for organized
groups. The books we haven’t
had time to read are slipped
into vacation luggage; libraries
are an essential part of camp
equipment and playgrounds make place for pic—
ture books and stories to give variety and richness
to the long days of play.

To a librarian, any group of people with leisure
time is a challenge. Bryant Park in New York
City, as re-created by the present Commissioner
of Parks, was also an invitation. A wide and per-
fectly kept rectangular greensward, restful to the
mind as well as to the eye, has replaced a huge

The story ot the outdoor library New
York City is providing in Bryant Park

By RUTH WELLMAN

Superintendent of Extension Work
New York Public Library

circle of burned grass.
Beds of luxuriant ivy
line the walks that were
before paths through
the mud of winter and the
dust of summer. Park benches
that sprawled uninvitingly in
the sun now follow logical
, lines along the edge of the
park under rows of trees. The order, beauty and
dignity made by these changes have brought to
the park a type of visitor it had not had before.
It is still a haven for the unemployed, but it has
also become a favorite stopping place for the city’s
many visitors, for messenger boys and executives,
salespeople, shoppers and stenographers.

That all this varied group would want to read
in the park was taken for granted both by the

 

Photo by Leavitt for "Today"

287

288 READING IN THE OPEN AIR

library and by James V. Mulholland, Supervisor
of Recreation in the Department of Parks. \Vith
his help, the Bryant Park Open-air Reading
Room was started in mid-August, I935. The long
mall just back of the main library building forms
a natural reading room. The simple library equip-
ment, bookustalls, magazine racks and a beach
umbrella give a gay note of color. Readers sit,
for the most part, on benches grouped near the
librarians’ table and in the little “reading al-
coves” at the side. During the busy lunch hour
the copings and the marble balustrade beyond are
crowded too. The library, manned by five WPA
workers supervised by the Extension Division, is
informal, friendly and devoid of red tape. The
reader selects his book or magazine from the
shelves and signs his name, but not his address,
on the book card which he leaves at the desk. He
may read anywhere in the park and is asked to
return his book before six when the library closes.

What They Read

And what does he read? The answer to this
question is that the reading of the.man in the park
is as varied as the reading of people elsewhere.
His reading is recreational, but while to some this
means merely diversion, to others it means acquir-
ing a broader understanding through reading.
About 70% of the readers are men, and three
quarters of them read magazines. This is nat-
ural, both because in most cases time is'limited to
a lunch hour and because, thanks to the? generosity
of the publishers, there is a wide range of current
magazines. For the reader interested in what is
going on in the world, and there are many such
readers, there are the current issues of the Review
of Reviews, the Readers’ Digest, the New Masses,
the New Republic, the Literary Digest and S crib-
ners. Popular Aviation is always in demand. The
many readers interested in music and the stage
find the latest issues of Musical America, Stage,
Cite, the Theater Arts Monthly and even an oc-
casional gift copy of Billboard and Variety. Asia,
Travel and Travel and Transportation provide in-
spiration to those who like to\ roam far afield
while sitting on a park bench. Camera Craft is

eagerly sought by the rapidly increasing number I,

of amateur photographers. Hygeia, published by
the American Medical Association, answers many
health questions. The June issue 0f Recreation
has found an interested public in the park. Fic-
tion readers wait for the new numbers of Fiction

  
    
 
 
    
 
    
    
    
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
  

Parade, Liberty and Story. The New Yorker a
Judge lighten many lunch hours.

Books of short stories and mystery and p
tectiVe stories read at one sitting are most po
but more serious longer books are ,read too.
are frequently reserved and read in a nu
of lunch hours. One young man this year ha
ished Thoreau’s Walden. Bulfinch’s Myth
always popular in the park library, has been
out sixteen times this summer. Ten people
read Jackson’s Ontwitting Our Nerves and -
three,.Lawes’ 20,000 Years in Sing Sing.

Poetry for reading under the trees has its
ous appeal. Most people read it in antholog
Stevenson’s H ome Book of Verse and Ausla
Winged Horse. Burns has, from the first,
the park readers’ favorite poet. Five people
read Hamlet in the park. People all over th
whose imagination is caught by the park li
idea bring gifts of books and magazines.
library sends a truck to collect heavy packag
gifts and park readers themselves freque
make contributions to the collection.

The Public Is Honest! r‘x

Dr. John Finley, in an editorial in the N .1
York Times when the park library was first op
ed, said that it would prove a test of the publi

honesty as well as of its literacy. The test, wit
minimum of red tape and almost no supervisi
has been complete, and statistics would seem
prove that the public is honest. Almost 10,
books and magazines were issued during‘rlthe’ii
short season the library was open. Only thi
were not returned. In the second year, when ‘
library was open from the middle of May un
November and the circulation was almost 65,0
only seventy were lost. Rain, and not a lack
public honesty, is the park library’s greatest ene
The simple library equipment provides no prot
tion. When it rains, the waterproof book-.sta
are quickly closed and readers and librarians. ali a
race for shelter. A more adequate protection fro
the weather might add to the library’s eflicien
but it might also detract from its air of info
mality and friendliness.
|
History of Outdoor Libraries t:
Park libiaries first appeared in Spain. Nev
the gay and informal gathering places that se ,
inevitable in the American scene, they are—,"

( Continued on page 327)

'11

:Some Contributions of Rural Drama

 

Courtesy Prairie Farmer

IFE IS A continuous drama. It
has its comedy and its trag—
edy. At times it can be—

come very melodramatic, at
others, farcical.

Rural life reveals its own type
of drama; everi in the daily
rounds of work on the farm moments become
dramatic. The old wet hen, goose money, the find-
ing of the red ear of corn, the tantalizing of the
.hired man—these and many other phrases recall
' to many of us scenes of comedy on the farm.

Stark tragedy, taking its toll of human life and
‘ leaving in its wake human suffering is in the ex-

perience of many. Floods take the old homestead

and our loved ones; ,crops fail and children die for

lack of proper care; storms rip up treasured im-

provements——- these and many other dramatic
ltimes lie in the life experience of most farm
' people.

True Drama Reflects Life

True drama, as shown on the stage or screen,

. is that which reflects life as it is lived. The best
~ comedy is that which pictures the really amusing
situations in farm life; it is not burlesque, as are
so many of our one—act plays which “make fun”

A group from the Blackhawk Com-
munity in Rock Island County.
in their production of "Spark-
In. the winning one-act play in

the I936-I937 Illinois Rural
Music and Drama Tournament.

D. E. LINDSTROM

College of Agriculture
University of Illinois

of farm people and the way they
live. The best comedies of rural
life are just as fine, juSt as re-
spectful of what actually is, as
those of city life, even the most
sophisticated. Literature in rural
drama is probably weakest at
this point. It is really hard to find good comedies
with rural life settings—plays which do not de-
pend for their audience appeal primarily on the
“makefun” element. Mrs. Felton, who wrote
“Goose Money,” found this out and set about to

write her own play on rural life. We need much
more effort along this line if farm people them-
selves are to stop making fun of themselves and
develop liner rural life philosophies. Go into any
rural community where plays are produced just
for entertainment and you’ll doubtless find more
of this type of plays used than any other. Even
radio programs which ostensibly reflect rural life
get painfully overburdened with the chin-whisker,
rube-dialect, straw-chewing type of characteriza—
tion. Most self-respecting farmers immediately
turn to other programs when such come blaring
out at them; there are so many fme things in life
on the farm that so frequently go unheralded that
I am in full sympathy with them when they do it.

289

290 SOME CONTRIBUTIONS OF RURAL DRAMA TO DEVELOPMENT OF RURAL LIP

The same feeling grows when these types of
plays are put on in drama tournaments in the
same evening program with truly good rural plays.
Groups, having produced them, see their awful-
ness and turn with relief to other types of plays,
even though they be the type which are laid in
urban settings. The revolt in Wisconsin and in
New York, Vermont, North and South Dakota,
my own state of Illinois and other states has
helped materially in driving out the rube type of
play and bringing in plays which really reflect
rural life in its richness and its true color.

Much remains to be done not only in develop-
ing a better appreciation of good rural plays but
in getting people to write more of them. The early
work of Arvold in North Dakota and Koch in
North Carolina was directed primarily to the de-
scription, through drama, of life in rural areas.
Koch and his followers took life as they found it
in the mountain areas of the Yankee south. The
Carolina folk plays have won a deep and lasting
place in American literature. Arvold took the best
plays and demonstrated that farm folk could do
them. His work in “spotlighting” the little coun-
try theater has a place of its own in rural life
movements. These were intensive in their nature
——the work by Koch and Arvold when once done

was well done.

The Wisconsin, Illinois, New York and other
tournament movements have suffered because of
their extensiveness. The ground work so well laid
out by Arvold and Koch could not be carried into
the tournaments. Notable efforts have been made
to do this through the drama schools in which
liberal use was made of Miss Rockwell, Miss
Borchers and others in Wisconsin, and those of
us watching the growth from the sidelines have
seen phenominal changes. Though we need more
attention to activity similar to the work in North
Dakota and in North Carolina, yet these tourna-
ments have made a dent. I like to think that they
have been as important, on the extensive side, in
developing a keener appreciation of good drama
on the part of farm folks, as the Little Country
Theater and Carolina Folk
Plays have by the intensive
m e t h o (1. Our work needs
greater intensification, we must
confess, and we are using
much of Arvold and Koch.
Let us hope that we can con-
tinue to intensify and at the
same time give more and more '

'literature than the more complex form of c

.Ahead.” A few new plays have come out ta

"Rural drama is more than iust enter-
tainment. It is the reflection of a
way of life. Give it that deep-seat-
ed motivation and it will flourish and
enrich the lives of all who take part
either behind the footlights. backstage
or in front of the curtain. Let us de-
velop a rich rural drama in America.H

 
  
  
  
   
    
   
  
   
  
    
 
    

l

people an opportunity at this kind of culture
rural life.

Tournaments have probably made their gre
est contribution in the stimulation of gro
activity in rural life. In drama, group life
pictured—the family among whom an individ
has visions and seeks “Greener Grass,” or “Nei
bors” who have forgotten how to be folks in th
desire for self ease. (How we enjoyed seei
Peter forget himself when there was a little
low to do for l) Family or neighborhood life
probably found a greater place in rural dram

munity life. Yet most of these plays re
broader community forces at work, as, for
ample, the coming of the hard road in “Det

their materials from milk strikes, mortgage sa
church or school fights and similar situations

conflict. Farm groups in search of plays ten

turn away from such plays unless the outcome

some good in it. There is value in them, ho
ever. They usually show the futility of confl
based on misunderstanding, the heartaches can
by bullheadedness, a lack of open—mindedness a
the need for more tolerance, more willingness
give and take.‘ It would be hard to say how m

of this carries over into everyday life. Some d .
carry over. Let us hope, then, that the ne- I
plays will reflect benefits of cooperation as mu -
at least, as the heartaches from conflict.

This may sound like a challenge to publish a
and writers. Let it be so. I am not unmindf
however, of the well-known fact that the pl
should reflect life as it is. Good plays do so. T
is all the more reason to hope that they will

flect benefits. of cooperation. But the challen
goes as well to the social reformers; people des

the cooperative way of life—our leaders sho
show them the way.

Cooperation Engendered

Producing a play requires cooperation an
therefore, begets cooperation. This would be,
trite statement were it not
true. Many of you can cite i .
stance after instance of a pla
failing to go over because I
lack of team work. It 'r
seem to the unschooled, mo
over, that team work is
quired only of the actors.

(Continued on page 328)

l. %

fl I
H.

,F

Table Shuttleboard

How to make and play a
game which is suitable
for home, school, camp,
club house, recreation
center or playground

 

By /
O ALICE 'A. SEUFTON

ABLE SHUFFLEBOARD is suitable for mixed
T groups of varying ages. It is a good game

for home, school groups, community and rec-
reation centers, camps, club houses, or play-
grounds. As a game, it affords sociability, fur-
nishes competition, and provides a continual chal-
lenge to improve one’s skill, although it can be
enjoyed by those entirely untrained in sports.

Equipment
Table shuflieboard has the great advantage of
requiring little space. It can be played wherever
there is table room upon which the portable eight-
foot board can rest. Eight weighted discs and
four cues to push them are all that is needed to

play the game. A small wall blackboard is use-
ful to keep the score.

Making Your Own Table ShutFIeboard. Use one.

piece of Masonite Presswood—3/16x2x9 inches——
because it is the ideal material for table. shuffie-
board, since it will not warp. Paint all figures white,
and make all lines %3 inch wide in white. Around
the outer edge, a 22 foot strip of % inch by %inch
molding is nailed and glued on to prevent the
discs from sliding off the board while the game is
being played. Two feet of % inch hose are titted
on the inside of the molding at each end of the
shuffieboard to absorb some of the noise and to
' keep the discs from rebounding. For the game,
eight fiat, round, turned wooden
discs are needed, 2 inches in
diameter by % inches thick, of
I maple or equally hard close-
grained wood. Four should be
painted black and four red. The

Miss Setton is the Vice-Chairman
of the Women's Division. National
Amateur Athletic Federation. The
headquarters of the Division are

at 303 West 42nd St., New York.

four cues can be made of white pine, each 5%; x%
by 2’ 2” long, with one end shaped and glued with
two pieces, as in the diagram. '

A score board is convenient to’ chalk the re—
sults of each play. .A large school slate would
serve the purpose, painted with a white line down
the middle, with the red and black lines indicated
at the top. a

The cost of materials for making this game at
home is really very reasonable, as itemized below:

Cost of Materials for Table Shuttleboard

1 pc. Masonite Presswood 3/16” thick x 2’ wide, .
9’ long . . . . . . . . . . . .._. . . . . . . . . . . ..Z . . . . . . . . . . .. $1.80
(Presswood comes in 3 sizes, 5/16—%———3/16.
If %” size is used, change nails to $14” size;
the thicker the better, but the %” size increases
the cost to $2.80.

is

2 pc. Vg”x%”x12’ yellow pine—for border . . . . . . . . .25
4 cues %”x%”x2.2’ long—white pine . . . . . . . . . . .. .25
8 discs 2” in diameter x M” thick, maple (Pur-

chase the above items at a lumber yard) . . . . . .. .80

(Metal discs are preferable, however, because
with this weighting the game is more accurate;
these can be cast at any foundry out of alumi-
inum, mixed with 40% copper. The cost would
,be 20c each, or $1.60.)
Paint (red, white, and black) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
Shellac (optional). For a finish, give board and
cues one coat of shellac.

'4 feet of %” hose (outside size) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
1 oz. 5/3” nails . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Glue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10

$3.75

A small blackboard, with chalk and eraser
would probably be bought for
25 cents.

If you prefer to have the
board made by a carpenter, this
labor would add approximately
ten dollars to the cost.

291

292 TABLE SHUFFLEBOARD

Playing Rules

The rules for the table game do not vary from
those sponsored by the National Shuffleboard

Association.

The game can be played by two people (sin-
gles) or four people (doubles) ; although one per-
son can practice the game and three people can
also play, with slight modifications.

I. In singles, both players play from the same
end of the court and change ends after each round.
Players do not change sides of the court, how-
ever. In doubles, partners play at opposite ends
but on the same side of the court.

2. One player or, in doubles, team uses the
- black discs, and the other the red throughout a
match.

3. Choice of colors is determined before each
match by having the player slag one disc each to the
farthest dead line. The player whose disc comes
nearest to the center of the dead line has his
choice of color, or, in doubles, he and his partner,
have first choice. The red starts the play.

4. Play is started at the head (end opposite the
score board) of the court by the red, with black
following, and thus alternating until all discs have
been shot. This completes the first round of play;
in doubles, it is called a half—round.

5. Players line all eight discs just behind the
ten-off line, each in his respective half of the area.
Remaining discs, other than the one being shot,
must be kept in this area.

6. Discs not going beyond the second cross line
are in the dead area, and must be removed.

7. Score is tallied again for red and black, and
each succeeding round is played with color—lead
alternating accordingly.

8. The first player to reach game point or over
is winner. Game is considered either 50, 75, or
100 points.

9. The second game is started by the black at
the end of the court where the discs came to rest
at the end of the preceding game. The third game
is started by the red, etc.

IO. The player or team who wins two out of
three games is winner of the match.

Scoring

Score should be counted on all live discs inside
and not touching lines of scoring areas. The
separation line is considered a line only in start-
ing, not in scoring.

(Continued on page 329)

 

\lz'
\
#l'
h
\N
Q
U
V)
‘5
‘O‘
9 $
m0: 'V
UV‘ "I\
“is-{- <-
s z: a
so

‘1. N

Fu// 5/25

C onrtesy Leisure

Diagram of Table Shuttleboard show-
ing details of cues and discs used
in playing the gamel and method by
which hose is titted to moldings

 

Learn-to-Swim

Program

HE SETTING of West Beach,
TSanta Barbara, California,

is as nearly perfect from
the standpoint of an open wa-
ter area as a swimming in—
structor could wish. The beach
is quarter moon in shape, running east and west
and facing the ocean on the south. The water is
protected and calmed by an arm breakwater that
originates at the western point of the moon and
extends south into the sea approximately 200
yards off shore. From this point the breakwater
extends east by south for another 300 yards and
lies there, a giant protecting arm, for all the area.
At the eastern tip of the moon lies Stearns Wharf,
a half mile to sea.

The playground area is situated on the western
half of the beach. The shore has a very gradual
slope which permits a tall man to walk out 150
yards at low tide. The water is bacterially pure,
kept so by currents from the open sea. It varies
in temperature from 65 degrees to 62 degrees.

We Start!

On the opening morning last June, in the mid-
dle of this beautiful beach, ready for instruction,
stood one lone ten-year—old girl with her mother.
The child was frail and thin, and the natural as-
sumption was that she would not prove a likely
pupil because of the coldness of the water. The
department had envisioned
classes of thirty or forty pu-
. pils. And there stood one hope-
' ful mother and one young
slightly frightened looking
' daughter!

This was a beginning, of
~ course, but not the one that
had been expected. What was
to be done? Of a number of
methods of publicity which

 

The plan of the Santa Barbara Recre-
ation Commission to round out its
summer program with a program of
free swimming instruction for chil-
dren led to Mr. Plescia's assignment
at the West Beach Aquatic Play-
ground. The development of the pro-‘
gram was attended with so much en-
thusiasm locally that the Commission
believes other communities may bene-
fit from hearing about the experiment.

Children

By
EARL PLBSCIA

might have been used the
“person to person” canvass was
the only emergency course
available at the moment, so
with a confidence which he
was far from feeling, the in-
structor excused himself from mother and daugh-
ter after telling them that the class would be ready
to start in a few moments.

“How do you do? My name is Plescia. I am
recreation supervisor of West Beach. We are
starting free swimming lessons for children. May
I have your child in the class?” In this manner
every mother on the beach was approached. Re-
sult: three children of three mothers whose curi-
osity overcame their skepticism. The class, ready
to start, now had four pupils.

The first lesson was not so hard. We had the
necessary element. The class spirit asserted itself
and how it drove that quartet! They washed their
faces. They dipped their faces. They blew bub-
bles from water held in their hands. They blew
bubbles with their faces in the water. They put
their heads under. Yes, by easy stages they licked
that inherent distaste for having one’s head under
the water! And they found for the first time that
ducking their heads under wasn’t terrifying; it was
fun! A quick glance at the faces of the parents
indicated that things were going nicely. On and
on the children advanced. They flutter—kicked.
They floated on their backs
and then their front side with
faces down. Standing in waist
deep water they worked their
arms in the prescribed manner
to achieve that sensationally
rhythmic six beat crawl. “All
right, just once more, then we
shall stop for today. Ready!
Down in the water to your
chin. Hands over head. Ready

293

“ zgmm.‘¢mmsmsm may“ s 

294 A LEARN—TO-SWIM PROGRAM FOR CHILDREN

for face down float and flutter-kick. Now! Big
breath. Kick.” Four small human torpedoes sped
for shore and the first lesson ended. “Hold on!
Just a minute, please, children. Be sure to tell all
of your playmates and friends about your swim-
ming lesson§.-'Bring them down with you tomor-
row.” And so was used the “tell your friends”
method.

We Educate the. Parents

“Oh, Mr. Plescia, I am. so thrilled. This is the
first,time Mary Lou has ever put her head under
water. How did you ever get her to do it ?” All
this came in one breath from the mother of the
frail ten-year-old girl who had been the first to
volunteer for instruction. Realizing that parental
enthusiasm is a motivator that can be used as a
lever to pry away the most stubborn obstacles, the
instructor explained that one
always works from the known
to the unknown. By having Ma
the children bring the water
to their faces with their
hands, they were doing some-
thing they were able to do,
in fact, had to do every'
morning; besides that, the
children were delighted be-
cause they had found that
they could do the first step
so easily. So the attitude that
learning to swim is really easy was set in the very
first lesson. Now, the second step, the unknown,
is putting the face in the water. With the proper
command, in a tone of voice which carries the ex-
pectation that everyone will do as directed, the in-
structor says, “Big breath! Face down!” This
procedure is continued until the majority have
dipped their faces. The next step, to get their
heads under the water, is done in the following
manner: “Listen, children. Have you ever seen a
duck get his dinner? Well, this is the way a duck
gets his dinner. See, first he gets down on his
knees, takes a big breath, puts his head under
where the food is, then, puts his bottom up, and
goes after the food.” With a minority of failures,
this method nearly always gets a perfect response.
By sticking to the play idea, the old “heads under
bugaboo” is licked. Children over ten years of
age are told to go after two handfuls of sand. The
children are introduced to the crawl stroke by
imitating the wind mill or aeroplane. The flutter-
kick becomes the motor boat game. The finale

 

y we remind our readers of the
Swimming Badge Tests for boys and
girls issued by the National Rec-
reation Association. single copies
of which may be secured free of
charge? Emblems and certificates
for those passing the tests are
available at little expense. It is
not too late to use the tests in
your summer playground program.

 

' from one to ninety! The problem, then, was tha

 
   
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
     
   
  
   
   
   
    
  

comes with the floating on the back. “Now we
are going to sleep on the water.” Thus the jo
of floating is approached. The bravest of th
group are chosen and start individually. “Do yo
know what holds us up when we float? The wate
holds us right by the ears. Put your arms out a
the side, get low in the water to the back of you
neck, now, lie right back on my hand.” “Gee, th
is fun” is the answer every time.

And that was the explanation of the “how” th
was given to the firstlpupil’s mother. Proud 0
her child’s progress, she helped to make plans f -.
publicity, the cry for which started that very ev
ning,-and C. C. Christianson, Director of Recr
ation for the city of Santa Barbara, notified t
press. Result, one press notice and thirty ne
pupils. From that second day on, the enrollme
for the swimming class continued to swell un
at the end of two week
ninety children were at wor
Each weekly press noti
brought new pupils. With t
size of enrollment and t
certainty of continued i
crease, a new problem mad
its appearance.

Then Came the Tests

Two weeks, and ninety pe
ple who represented ag
from three and one hal
years to fifteen years, and stages of efficienc .

0f grouping the children into workable unit '
Fifteen—year-old children just didn’t fancy th
duck dinners! Books and pamphlets were searche
for tests that would be appropriate to give peopl
in the throes of learning to swim, but none suit

able for. our purposes were to be found. So "
invented some! Here are the tests:

GROUP I. Kindergarten Ages (4 to 6)

Must be able to:

1. “f ash face and blow bubbles in water held in hand.
2. Lie on tummy in six inches of water and kick feet.
3. Mud crawl. (Swim with hands on shore.)

GROUP II. Ages 7 to 10 years inclusive.
(A) Beginners must be able:

1. To crawl kick with hands on bottom in shallo
water. '
2. To submerge head twenty seconds.
3. To do face down float. | c
4. Float on back. (Assisted) :
(B) Advanced beginners must be able:
1. To do crawl kick 'with face down, unsupported. c.
2. To bob up and down submerging each tune and e \ ,.

haling under and inhaling through mouth abovt"
(Eight times.) i

a.

\_

l

A LEARN-TO-SH'IJ! [‘NUULJ l' l )R CH[L[)1<lL.\ 295

3. To float on back without any help.
1 4. To take five strokes with face down.
5. To demonstrate correct crawl stroke on dry land.
I 6. Swimmers must be able to swim 20 feet in chest
deep water.

GROUP III. Ages 10 to 13 inclusive.
(A) Beginners must be able to:

1. Bob eight times.

2. Demonstrate flutter—kicks.

3. Face down float.

4. Float on back. (Assisted)

5. Demonstrate correct crawl stroke on land.

(B) Advanced beginners must be able to:

1. Demonstrate flutter-kicks. Distance to be covered

8 feet.
2. Swim 6 strokes with face down.
3. Breathe with hands on bottom while doing Hutter-

kicks.

4. Float 011 back without aid.

(C) Swimmers must be able to swim from chest deep
water five yards into deep water and return.

GROUP IV. Ages 14 to 21. '
(A) Beginners must be able to :‘

1. Hold breath under water for thirty seconds.

2. Face down float.

3. Face down float with correct flutter-kicks. 12 feet.

4. Demonstrate correct crawl stroke on land.

5. Float on back with help.

(B) Advanced beginners must be able to:

1. Demonstrate flutter-kick, breathing and crawl stroke.

2. Take six strokes with face down or up.

3. Float on back unaided.

(C) Swimmers must be able to:

1. Swim from chest deep water six yards out and back.

2. While swimming turn on back and float for 1.5
seconds, and turn over and swim without feet

touching.
3. Tread water.

The Kindergarten group should have been
divided into three units. Former experience warn-
ed us that one can not hope for much success in
teaching groups of children under seven years of
age to swim. In the size group then being
handled, there was lit-
tle hope to do anything
for the wee tots ex-
cept to familiarize
them with the water
in preparation for the
following summer.
Even at this age com-
petition is very evi-
dent, and by their ef-
forts to out-do one

i A group of Camp Fire
Girls of the Mishawakaf
Indianal camp. Each
I has a "buddy" with

whom she must keep in
! fouch while in the water

I
 Courtesy Camp Fire (in-ls

aiiutln r. the Children progressed to the extent that
it was necessary in transfer twenty-three of them
to the next age group.

We Solve a Problem!

Every person who has ever handled groups for
instruction where tests are involved, has found
that Mrs. Jones wishes to know why her son John
isn’t in the same group as Mrs. Brown’s son, Tom,
when John can swim just as far as Tom even if
John does dog paddle. The department was be-
sieged with questions of “How long will it take
my little boy to learn to swim ?”

And then came a happy thought! Five hundred
copies of the achievement tests were mimeograph—
ed and one handed to every mother, father, and
if the parent was not with the child, one was given
to the child to take home. It then became appar-
ent to Mrs. Jones, as the class routine was run
through, why her son John was not in the same
class as Tom Brown. The parents who queried
over the length of time necessary for their chil-
dren to learn to swim were met with an encourag—
ing smile,'a copy of the achievement test, and the
statement that as they could see for themselves,
(pointing to the copy) it was entirely up to the
child. Ability to execute the sequence of steps
brought promotion and the ability to swim. In a
word, it was put up to the parents. And did they
cooperate? They most certainly did! When the
call for class came, one could hear mothers in-
structing youngsters to “Do as you are told.”

(Continued on page 329)

 

Model Aircraft Activity

HE RECREATION COMMISSION of Linden, New
TJersey, sponsors two organized model air-

craft clubs in addition to the playground
model aircraft building groups. These two clubs
have an active membership of forty-one members
who meet every Saturday morning _in the Hobby
Room in the Recreation Commission Headquar-
ters. Shop periods are held on Wednesday and
Friday afternoon after school hours.

Classification of Members. The boys are divided
into two groups—seniors and juniors. The senior
group is composed of boys in high school or work-
ing (16 years to 22 years) ; the junior, of boys in
Junior High School. with some grammar school
boys (12 to 15 years).

Facilities and Tools. The Recreation Commission
has provided the groups with
"work tables with pulp board

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 

Awards. Ribbon achievement awards are ma
on the basis of duration of Hight of models
follows: Seniors, blue (7 minutes) ; red (5 mi
utes); white (3 minutes); and yellow (2 mi
utes). The awards to .juniors are on the sa
basis and range from I minute to 5,minutes.

Point System. A very interesting point syst
has been devised to stimulate activity in constr
tion and theory of model aeronautics. Points
awarded for attending meetings, entering a
placing among the first live in contests, writi
essays or articles on aerodynamic theory, devisi
original devices which are useful in model bui
ing, or dying, building a gasoline model, buildi
unusual types of models such as autogyros, h
copters, ornithoplers, etc;, and holding commit
or elective Office posts. Awar
are made at the end of the i
door and the outdoor seaso

composition tops to facilitate
pinning the models in assem-
bling. The boys provide their
own material. The club owns
a number of tools which are
available to the members, such

The making of model airplanes
is still one of the most pOpu-
lar handcraft activities in a
number of cities. Here is an

account of the ambitious pro-
gram which is being conducted
in a city of New-Jersey.

 
 
  
 
 

to the one who has compil
the largest point total at t

end of each season.
Officers. Committees. T
club Officers are elected se

as balsa strippers, winders and
pliers. The Hobby Shop pow-
erized tools are also at the dis-
posal of the boys, but they are operated by the
maintenance worker who is on duty 'at the time.

Supply Store. A supply store is maintained;

where members may buy balsa wood, cement, tis-“i‘ -I.

sue paper, wire and other model supplies. Since ’irJestS, Scrap book, POint system, memberShiP, a

,the supplies are bought in quantity, they are pur-
chased at a saving which in turn is passed on to
the members.

Bulletin Board. The club bulletin board is kept
alive with notices of approaching contests,.‘~pic-
tures, and information pertaining to model build-
ing and aviation.

Contests. Semi-monthly indoor meets are held
during the winter in a nearby armory. The city
indoor championships are held'in April. Outdoor
meets are also held semi-monthly during the
spring and summer, with Ehe city meet climaking
the season. The boys alsa'coplppte in many other

County meet. County indoor and’ "Outdoor cham-"
pionships are held by members of the club.

296

 

contests including inter-city mEEfs“_;nd the Union‘i}

annually and take their respo

sibilities seriously. The ofiic
i are president, vice-preside
secretary, and treasurer. The Superintendent
Recreation acts only in an advisory capacity. Co
mittees are appointed to look after the vario
phases of club activity as follows: publicity, co

  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
   

' properties.

Duies and Club Equipment. Nominal dues a
charged .apd art: deposited in the club treasur
The clubs use these funds for making awards, f
purchasing ‘equipment, and for meeting the gener
running expienges. At present the club owns ti
one-cylinder gasOlin‘e engines, a gasoline mode

and various .tools., "

. $i r‘ii a o a u
Achievements§eIn addltlon to Winning count

and inter-city championships-awards have bee
won in the exhibition scale contest held recentl
in connection with the National Aviation Show}
One of ‘the boys, in winning an airplane drawin
contest, received an airplane trip to Chicago in
one of the large passenger transports. 
(Coatimted on page 330) 

I!

' Recreation for Handicapped Children

0MPE’I‘ITIVE
games are
an integral
part of recreation.
Matching your
strength, speed
and skill With that
of the other fel-
low adds zest to
your own efforts. '
You try harder
W h e n s o m e o n e
else sets the pace.
And in your striv—
ing to overtake
'the man ahead,the
ones trailing you
try a little harder
too. T h u s t h e
speed of the group
is accelerated as a
whole. ..' ‘

——v-

When timers
think that an ath-
lete is in record breaking form, the best pace set-
ters are called upon to help him set a new stand-
ard. To no specific group is the development of
the competitive spirit more vitally necessary than
among physically handicapped children whether
they be blind, deaf, paralytic, epileptic, cardiac,

diabetic 01' maimed. No greater service can be .

rendered humanity than to convince these little
ones that they are not excluded from the game
of life. " .

Let us first consider the blind and those who
have seriously impaired vision.

F or the Blind

Children who live in total darkness 13nd solace
in games especially devised to suit their needs.

By ARCHIE MACMILLAN

.&

 

Courtesy New York Institute for the Education of the Blind

of a blind person it is‘always a smile and never a
grin. They are made radiantly happy by games
arranged for them that fall into three classes—
rhythmic, outdoor and adapted.

Blind children find great joy in marching, run—
ning and skipping to music. Folk games and
dances that call for circle formation are particu—
larly helpful. For obvious reasons games in which
the hands are joined are well suited to the blind.
Manufacturers of phonographs are notably gen—
erous in supplying records to help blind children
play their rhythmic games. Music is an excellent
outlet for the-suppressed ego of the sightless and
the blind musician is proverbial in all countries.

The little ones who are groping for some con—
tact with others are taught to play such games as
Little Ball Pass Along, Echo, Call Ball, Dog and

l Fostering of the play instinct affords them the joy
' of knowing and feeling that they are just as much
a part of the human family as their sighted
. brothers.
The blind need games to dis—
i tract them, to take them out of
,the habitual state of concentra-
tion in which they are plunged.
When a smile illumines the face

Bones, Roll Ball. In playing Little Ball Pass
Along the children form a large circle. Then they
sing the song, “Little Ball Pass
Along,” and roll the ball around
the circle from one child to the
next. When the last word of the
song is sung, the child who has
the ball knocks on the floor three

297

Mr. MacMillan. a newspaper
manl compiled this information
while working on a proiect which
was sponsored by the Welfare
Council of New York City.

298 RECREATION FOR HANDICAPPED CHILDREN

times. The teacher then taps another child and
this one goes over to the one who has the ball,
asks him a question and tries to guess from the
answer who he is. If the guesser is successful, he
.starts the ball rolling for the repetition of the
game. If he is unsuccessful, the child who last
held the ball starts it rolling again.

The games of Call Ball and Dog and Bones are
on the same order as the preceding one, training
the children to recognize one another by sound.
Roll Ball is more important because it helps de-
velop the children’s sense of direction. They sit

in a circle on the door, with one child in the cen- ,

ter. The child in the center says: “Here I am,
Harry.” Harry rolls the ball to the child who
called. Harry then says, “Here I am, Mary.”
Mary rolls it back to Harry and the teacher..con-
tinues to direct the passing back and forth around
the circle.

When playing outdoors, games on the order of
Belled Cat and forfeits are ideal for blind chil-
dren. In playing Belled Cat, one player is named
the "cat" and a tiny bell is suspended from his
neck. The other players, who impersonate the
mice, try to catch the “cat.” When he is caught,
he becomes one of the mice and the player who
caught him becomes the new “cat.”

In forfeits, all but two of the players sit in a
circle. One of these goes into the center of the
circle and the other walks around and asks each
player for some article. Each player must also
remember what article he has given the collector.
After each player has given something, the col—
lector stands behind the center player, who is
kneeling and holds one article at altime over his
head saying: “Heavy, heavy hands over the
head.” The one who is kneeling asks, “Fine or
superfine?” The collector says “fine” if the ar-
ticle belongs to a boy and “superfine” if it belongs
to a girl and then asks: “What must the owner
do to redeem it P” The kneeling player tells what
the owner must do to redeem the forfeit. He may
be called upon to run a certain number of steps
or perform some other not impossible stunt. Each
player must do something to redeem his article.

If anyone fails to do his stunt, he forfeits his‘

article.

For the adolescent and adult blind more strenu-
ous games have been arranged that bring all the
other physical faculties into play on a basis that
closely approaches normal. Leapfrog and leap-
frog races as well as a tug-of—war are enjoyed by
the blind. Football with considerable adaptation

- can be played by the partially blind. The ball i

I are used and no distance lines except “half way

i made much merrier by engaging in games of ski]

   
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
    
   
      
 
 

not passed or carried but kicked. No goal post

lines to show the starting point. The object of t
game is to kick the ball over the goal line of t
opposing team, thus scoring one point. The me
bers of the opposing team try to prevent the ba
from going over their goal line by stopping
with their bodies.

While it is not generally known, the blind a1
participate in competitive athletic meets. They e
gage in relay races, potato races and other sho
tests of speed. Contests of this nature help d
velop a feeling of comradeship. With padd
safeguards around the side of the rink, the bli
can also enjoy roller skating. W'restling they ii
great sport but swimming is usually the favori
because here there are few hazards to overcome

Deaf Children

Nearly all forims of recreation and competiti
sports are open to the deaf. The various State i
stitutions throughout the nation turn out teams
football, basketball, baseball and track that ho
their own with regular A. A. U. and sometim
professional opponents. In fact, physical trai
ing with the deaf is almost a fetish. In Mar
land a deaf sprinter set a country “record a
many Other prominent athletes have been know
to have had impaired hearing. The Olymp
games for the deaf will be held at Stockhol I
Sweden, in 1939.

The Crippled Child
The crippled or maimed child also finds life

Usually these youngsters become enthusiasts .
playing the lighter type games such as shuffl
board, ping pong, deck tennis, and croquet. On
legged swimmers who can match speed with the'
schoolmates are not uncommon in the high scho
pools of New York City.

The Association for the Aid of Crippled Chil
dren in New York City has found by experienc
that participation in sports contests of some kin
makes a' crippled child more self—reliant and en
ables him to overcome the feeling that he is hope
lessly incapacitated and excluded from the genera
run of activities. Even the boy in the wheel chai
can be taught to develop into an efhcient umpir ‘
of baseball games and enjoys himself immense
as a result. In fact, observers say that in athletic;

(Continued on page 330) i
\



T‘A Gypsy Story-teller Casts Her Spell

NE SUMMER evening in San Francisco,
30 shortly after six o’clock, a small boy stood
0 outside the gate of Mission Playground,
intently watching. The playground was closed for
“the night and seemed to be entirely deserted; still
the little boy lingered, peering through the bars
of the gate with a singular fixedness. Presently a

young woman emerged from the clubhouse; she-

“was dressed in trimly tailored street clothes, and
farried an overnight bag in her hand.
0 The small boy’s face plainly showed disappoint-
ment, but as the young woman approached him he
spoke.

“Please, lady,” he asked, “did you see a gypsy
in there?”

The lady smiled down at him. “What kind of

'gypsy?” ' ,
' “Oh, gee, a swell gypsy!” answered the child.
“She was so pretty and she told'us about a million
stories. I saw her go in there and I know she
didn’t come out yet, ’cause I been watchin’.”

The young woman laughed and patted his curly

head. “There’s nobody in there now, Davey,” she
Said, “I imagine she’s gone where all gypsies go at
night. It’s rather hard to keep track of them, don’t
you think? And isn’t it about time for you to run
hlong home for supper?”
a The little boy sighed. “Well, I guess so,” he
answered, “butI sure would like to see her again.”
“W'ell.” he added on a brighter note, “she said
she’d be back again next week, anyhow.”

And Polly McGuire, watching him as he trotted
off down the street, saw him stop and look back,
one—two—three times, before he finally gave up
and turned the corner for home. She put down
the suitcase containing the gypsy costume while
she waited for the street car.

“I think that’s really about the nicest compli-
ment I ever had,” she mused thoughtfully.

That was three years ago, the year the Recrea-
tion Department’s Polly McGuire, who is yOUng—
, just a girl, really—enthusiastic and gifted with a
I rare understanding of the
hearts of children, be-
came the gypsy story—
teller to thousands of
boys and girls all over
San Francisco. And how
they loved her! All dur-

ing the long summer months they awaited her day
at their playgrounds with ill-concealed impa-
tience; they thronged to the car line, dozens of
them, to meet her; they almost came to blows over
the honor of carrying her suitcase.

It is not hard to understand Mrs. McGuire’s
popularity once you have. seen ’her with one of
her story hour groups. Mrs. McGuire loves
stories; she loves to tell them, and she loves chil-
dren. These are the reasons she is able to take a
restless, noisy group and convert it suddenly into a
quietly relaxed circle, intent on every word she
utters. Her power to catch the attention of chil—_
dren in a split second and to hold them spellbound
by the hour seems like some magical quality to the
watcher; yet Mrs. McGuire merely laughs at such
an idea, and maintains that practically anyone can
become a good story-teller with but a little study
and effort.

Most people, says Polly McGuire, can’t tell
stories because they think they can’t; they are
afraid to try. Or perhaps they belittle story-tell—
ing, thinking it merely a childish activity which
requires no thought or special ability, or a light
form of amusement for infants of the nursery
rhyme stage. Yet story-telling at its best is an art
and should be treated as such. Long before books
Or printing were known, long before writing was
commonly used as a medium for transferring
thought, the word-of-mouth tale had become a tra—
dition. Tales of mythology dating from an un—
known antiquity were handed down from father
to son for generations; heroic epics of the valor-
ous deeds of half-imagined, half-factual heroes
were recounted by wandering minstrels who
handled them with a conscious artistry which has
endured in many of the most beautiful tales in all
languages—among them Homer’s incomparable
Odyssey. So if it is to be done correctly, telling a
story must not be considered a too simple task;
on the other hand it is not necessary to make it
too complicated.

The wandering minstrels of long ago have been replaced
by story-tellers in gypsy dress, but the art of story-
telling still wields its charm as it did in bygone days

299

300 A GYPSY STORY-TELLER CASTS HER SPELL

Mrs. McGuire gives three fundamental rules to
follow for successful story-telling:

First: Know your story. Read it over every
time you tell it. Don’t improvise absurdly, or
skim over or leave out parts. Children are quick
to recognize shams of any kind, and they will lose
interest.

Second: Like the stories you tell. If a story
doesn’t mean anything to you personally, don’t
use it; it will mean less to your audience. Let
there be a well-defined plot, not too complex, of
course, but interesting. And don’t be afraid a
story loses in entertainment value because of his-
torical or other educative factors; children are
eager to learn about the world which lies outside
their immediate experience.

Third: Know your audience. Different age
levels, different nationality groups cannot be ex-
pected to react the same to all manner of stories.
'And if you have a mixed age group, arrange your
stories to suit. Airplane and radio stories which
will interest older boys and girls can be told first ;
the tiny tots will listen even if they don’t quite
understand. Afterwards, the older children may
go and the little fellows have to their hearts’ con-
tent the “princess” and “giant” stories they adore.

Mrs. McGuire, who has been a San Francisco
playground director for eight years and knows
children rather well, considers an hour or an hour
and a half the most appropriate length of time
for a story-hour period. She begins the session
by telling four or live short stories; after this the
favorite tales are acted out by the children in an
impromptu style, a feature which is known as the
“story—play.” These informal performances are
much enjoyed by the children, and have been
proved valuable aids in stimulating memory work,

originality of expression, and as a first step in
dramatics.

During the three vacation periods in which she
has acted as the Recreation Department’s story-
teller, Mrs. McGuire has experimented with many
ideas. The gypsy costume used the first year was
so successful that during the next season the cos-
tume was varied each week. Nationality costumes
——Norwegian, German, Italian, Scotch, Russian,
Arabian—as well as a princess and a witch cos—
tume, were used, and stories were told to “match”
the dress. This proved a most favorable means
of attracting interest in the programs; the children
had great fun guessing what next week’s costume
might be, and at the time of the meeting showed

most popular of all types. A Chinese youngst

  
   
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
    
    
   
   
  

much interest in learning about the parts of t I
world which the costumes represented.

As for stories, Mrs. McGuire has tried almo
every type in existence, including a serial whi
was told quite successfully during the second yea
On the whole, however, Mrs. McGuire lik
shorter stories, and prefers to use those wi
which the children might not otherwise com'e
contact, to enrich their “story vocabulary” as 5
terms it. Ghost stories are without a doubt t

recently had everybody puzzled by his repeat
request for a “mummy” story; he shook his he
at every story which was tried until one day t
story teller began a ghost story. There was
flash of Oriental grin, and he settled back in

chair content; this was his “mummy” story. A
tion in a story is essential—and the children 10
to have Mrs. McGuire act out the most intere
ing parts; this both improves the story in th
estimation, and helps them later in story play.

As a. rule it -is not necessary to stimulate inte
est in a story program. Wherever there is a go
story-teller there will usually be an appreciati
audience. Yet once in a while there is an exce
tion. At the first class held at Chinese playgroun
Mrs. McGuire looked in some dismay at the circ
of stoic-faced youngsters with their noncommitt
eyes. \Vhat were they thinking about? Were th
even listening? But she told a story, determin
to do or die in the attempt. When she finished 5
asked whether they would like to,act out one I
the stories. Not a sound answered her—only t
negative shaking of the circle of shiny black hea
Then the children got up and silently filed out.

The next time, thinking that the children pro
ably did not care for the stories, Mrs. McGui
spent the hour conducting games. Later she ve

tured another story, which was greeted by t
same silence.

The following week Mrs. McGuire enter _
Chinese playground to find her class lined up I
the fence, waiting for her. ’

“Well. children,” she greeted them. “Wh
shall we do today? Play games or tell stories.”

“Act!” chorused a score of small voices in un 4
son. And now they are among the best, thoug
still the least expressive listeners, as well as amon
the best impromptu dramatists of all groups. l

During the recently completed season, M .
McGuire told stories to an audience of well ovi:

(\
(Continued on page 331) "

\‘f

('F‘ I

; a

an almost ideal example of a father and mother
who found time for family activities. Ing-
ild’s mother shared her little pleasures, and her
ather took time to explain details of things about
em. This sympathetic interest on the part of
:he family was characteristic of each member.
ven grandfather took pains to include the chil-
' ren, especially in excursions. These family re-
tionships are all pleasantly, even poetically de-
cribed in passages such as the following:

“Their grandfather used to take them for a drive
every Sunday afternoon, but when they came to a
hill they all had to get down and walk. Some-
times these drives were undertaken to visit farms
where her grandparents had friends. She never
forgot one of these evenings—it was late in the
summer and she was standing on a grass plot which
had lately been mown with a scythe, leaving the
most charming pattern of curves in the short grass.
Behind her was the end of one of those long farm-
houses, and it was painted a light sea-green, and
the windows were so pretty to look into with their
flowers and lace curtains. . . . It was all so beau-
tiful, the whole sky was pink and yellow, and
where the grass left off there was a field of oats.
She looked andnlooked and discovered a hundred

new things. . . .

u N SIGRID UNDSET’S The Longest Years, we have

 

Not Finding, but Taking, Time

"' To most busy families finding time for family
ctivities is a vital problem. Already the day is so
ull of routines "for every member of the family
rom the young baby to grandfather that parents

Wonder how any more family activities can be in-

cluded in this already busy house. However, we

l ften find that daily schedules need to be reor-

ganized or revised. By doing this, and by pro-

'.viding a really flexible program, we reorganize

and revise our thinking as well. We are soon

aware that, if permitted, eight-year-old Margaret
nd ten-year-old Tom will make their own beds,
ang up their own sleeping garments, and
traighten their own rooms each morning before
chool. Soon they will become quite skilled in
Eerforming these duties and eventually will re-

uire very little of mother’s help and supervision.
hus not only is mother relieved of this respon-
sibility, but Margaret and Tom are learning to

cooperate, and as a reward mother often will have
O time, interest and energy to join with Margaret
and Tom in their latest hobby or interest. The
more children in the family the larger the number

inding Time for Family Activities

By HAZEL S. SCI-IAUS

Mrs. S'chaus. who is a member of the
staff of the Iowa Child Welfare Re-

search Station, is on leave of ab-
sence serving as State Supervisor,
Nursery School and Parent Educa-
tion, Works Progress Administration.

(

of duties that can be taken care of, but the better
managers the parents‘ must be in order to supply
the proper guidance for their children. It is not a
matter of finding time but of taking time and
recognizing the value of taking it.

A Feeding Station Started It All!

Ten-year-old Ted came home from school one
evening enthusiastic about building a feeding sta-
tion for the winter birds. His father, an office
man, was busy balancing the family budget when
his son approached him with his new idea, but he
was willing to take time to listen. Ted’s father
knew very little about building materials, but he
was interested in his son’s enthusiasm and did
know how to organize and plan. Before the
month was over they had gone to the library to
get books and instructions and had the feeding
station well under way. Not only were Ted and
his father interested, but Mary and her mother
became equally enthusiastic. Many of the plans
were made during meal time when all could share
ideas. Mary found an interest in selecting the
right kind of timber to be used, out of which
grew a study of different types of wood and a
new activity for Mary and her mother. Mary sud-
denly wished to dust the furniture for mother in
order to look for all the little curls and‘markings
found in the different kinds of wood and to see if
she could identify them.

Mother’s club was at that time studying period
furniture, and so Mary and mother had an ac-
tivity that really grew out of Ted's desire to build
a feeding station for the winter birds. These two
interests were year-round. Ted and father were
as interested in the discoveries that Mary and
mother had made in the world of furniture as
Mary and mother had been in the feeding station.

301

302 FINDING TIME FOR FAMILY ACTIVITIES

When I say that these two interests were all-
year interests, let me explain that this wise father
and mother fostered and guided their children’s
interest to the extent that the family Vacation for
the next summer was planned to include both of
these interests. On their two-weeks auto trip the
following summer not one dull moment was ex-
perienced, for they were out to see what they
could see as they were driving along, at times no-
where in particular. It was fascinating how the
most interesting furniture and birds were found
when they had least expected to find them. The
whole family agreed that the reason they made so
many interesting discoveries was because they
were constantly on the lookout for them. .The
children had taken books along to identify all of
their “finds.”

As the years went on, the children’s early inter-
ests included not only birds, timber and furniture,
but also history, geography, handicrafts, science,
cooperation, happy times, and learning to live to-
gether with common family interests.

Tom's friend, Bob, was also interested in con-
structing from timber, but he most of all .wanted
to build bridges. From his early sand-table days.
he adored bridges. Bob still liked to go to the
basement to build bridges, reservoirs, and dams in
his three-year-old brother’s sand-table. Often his
father went to the basement with Bob where they
had pictures of bridges tacked up on the wall.
For a long time they had been saving them w1th
their descriptions and locations. From his weekly
allowance Bob had saved enough to buy a kodak
so that they could take their own pictures as they
drove along the highways. Then Bob and his
father learned to deve10p and print their “snaps,”
which was much less expensive than having them
finished down town. The interest really became so
great' that the little dark room which Bob and his
older brother Charles had built in the basement
was not big enOUgh to house the whole family
when the films were to be developed.

Hints to Parents

Similarly, other groups of parents and children '

are finding time for family activities and: learning
that their pleasure grows in proportion to the in-
terests which they share. For those who would
like to find time for family activities, the follow-
ing hints may be helpful.

I. Find the children’s interests and incorporate
them with daily duties and daily living together.

.some places a corncob is used instead of a co

   
 
  
 
  
    
    
      
  
    

2. We, as parents, must have a cooperative .
titude in order to guide or help carry on propos
activities and suggestions.

3. We need to be constantly aware that it
desirable for children to be permitted to do i
dependent thinking, to do their own research,
solve their own problems.

4. Parents need to remember also that th
themselves are persons with needs and rights
their own. If they become so engrossed in l
pressing needs of their children as to forget "t
they will be short-sighted. Nothing forms a m
solid basis for really enduring family enjoym
of one another than continued flexibility, gro
and change.

5. Parents who wait to find time for do'
things with their children usually lose out on t
type of family fun. But the families who inc
porate these interests with everyday duties a
experiences are the ones who have recogniz
their value and 'made the effort to enlarge a
materialize family activities.

“Out of doors, in the yard. we can have mu
fun by building an outdoor fireplace from eit
bricks or stones, and cooking supper there for
change. Let dad and the boys do the cooking a
bar all canned food. A marshmallow roast c
follow the supper, with stories and songs arou
the lire afterwards. Horseshoes will also find 
place in the yard, and on the side of the house
can hang a dart baseball board. We make t =
darts from corks, a nail and some feathers.

If there is a strip. of concrete from the road
the barn we can paint a shuffleboard outline, a
using wooden disks or old tin pie plates and
broom, play the game. A length of rope and .
old automobile shoe make an excellent and sa
swing. A sand box in a shady place, with tl
sand at one end damp, means hours of fun for t
little ones. Blocks 'can be made by sawing a 2 x
into the size of bricks and rounding the edge
dipping them into dyes for color. Be sure a
have a shelf at one end of the sand box so th
the pies and cakes may be shown to all. Wher
there is no shade an awning, can be made with”
couple of yards of gaily striped material stretch
over four posts. I

“A Hower garden made with wild Howers thti
can be transplanted interests every member 

5‘:

the family.”-———I0/m Bradford, in a radio addresxl
.1

3;

l

wSeventy Mules by Foot In the Sierra

cloudless, as is usual during a Sierra summer.
The waters of the Merced, icy cold, having but
recently emerged from the melting snows of the
mountains above, tumble and laugh over granite

 '1‘ IS EARLY on a Monday morning. The sky is

boulders, dividing temporarily to form the well- .

named Happy Isles.

Gathered on the bridge is a group of twelve or
thirteen men and women, about evenly divided as
to sex, ranging in age from the ’teens to that in-
definite period when the love of adventure ends.
All are dressed in comfortable boots, low shoes,
or even tennis shoes. Some wear hiking trousers,
some ordinary sturdy trousers or skirts. All carry
small knapsacks, containing a change of socks and
underwear, a minimum of toilet articles, perhaps
an extra pair of shoes—lest the ones they wear
r'ub their feet in the wrong spots—~and a roll of
adhesive tape to take care of those rubbed spots.
A few carry fishing rods, cameras or field glasses.

Let‘s Start

In the center of the group is a young man in
forest green, on_
his hatband the
letters U. S. N.
P. S. After wait-
ing for a tardy
couple t6 join the
group, he counts
those present and
announces,“Let’s
start!” The hik-
ers bid good-bye
to those who
have come to see
them off, laugh

at a few jesting

..AL

At the end of the

first day they were
well on their way

\ ‘t
\ 4‘5'

- . t F
i». 'm ""
gigs“ ' F ‘ 
. __ : r 'W; 9 ‘

Courtesy National Park Senice

 

By REYNOLD E. CARLSON and RUTH CARLSON

admonitions, adjust knapsacks, pose for snapshot
pictures, and 'start out. Several glance thought-
fully at the rushing waters of the Merced, antici-
pating eagerly the pleasures of following that
beautiful stream up past the spots where it tu-
multuously rushes over the cliffs that form Vernal
and Nevada falls, up to its quiet resting places in
Little Yosemite valley, up again into some of the
highest peaks of the entire country, where the
stream, by then divided into countless trickling
rivulets, is born.

Such is the typical start of the seven-day hiking
trip in Yosemite' National Park, California, a
unique form of nature recreation fostered by the
United States National Park Service. These
trips are much more than mere hikes. They are
led by a ranger-naturalist, a man thoroughly
versed in the ways of bird, beast and Hower of the
Sierra. Through regions unsurpassed in scenic
splendor, with each day bringing new experiences,
he guides his party and helps them to understand
and appreciate more of the natural world around
them than most of them could learn in any other

 

304

fashion. He does not “teach,” but he does impart J
his knowledge and experiences and enthusiasms
to those who wish to share them.

Who are those who undertake the trip? They
are strangers to each other, most of them, from
various parts of the country. One woman is a
teacher from an eastern college. Another is a
stenographer in San Francisco. A third, a mother,
has left her children with someone else in a Yo-
semite camp so that she may engage in this ad-
venture. One of the men is a movie technician;
another, an eye specialist; a third, a high school
graduate in Yosemite for the summer before en-
tering college. There is almost no limit to the
variety of interests they represent in their work.
Nor have they all had previous hiking experience,
though each is in sound health. Some are sea-
soned mountaineers who have climbed the most
difficult peaks of the Sierra; others have never
before set foot on a mountain trail. But all have
in common two qualities—good sportsmanship
and a desire for adventure, physical and mental.

The National Park Service has been conduct-
ing these trips weekly during July and August for
several years, providing the guidance of a ranger-
naturalist absolutely free of charge. The only
cost lies in the accommodations provided at the
High Sierra hiking camps, where “a dollar a
night, a dollar a meal” is the rule. Reservations
for the trip are made with the Park Naturalist,
Yosemite National Park. Not more than fifteen
people may go on any one trip. '

The hike starts slowly, for the long trail leads
uphill, and the naturalist knows that his party
will arrive much less tired after a slow trip than
after a hurried one. The party stops frequently
to admire the view, to listen to a robin, to examine
a yellow pine, and, incidentally, to rest. The route
for the week is roughly circular, and members of
the party will not retUrn this way to Yosemite
valley, so they attempt to remember each detail
of the changing view. The trail leads past Vernal
fall, and the travelers realize that vernal indeed
are the plants kept green in the showers of spray.
Soon they reach Nevada fall, a higher, more tur-
bulent drop than that of Vernal, seen first from
below and finally from above, where, by ventur-
ing onto the rock ledge, the hikers may peer over
the rim into the stormy pool below into which the
waters plunge. The naturalist points out rocks
which have been highly polished by the glacier and
transports his party back in imagination to the
days, recent in earth’s history but ancient com-

SEVENTY MILES BY FOOT IN THE SIERRA

pared to man’s, when this great glacier gouged .
the canyon where the Merced Hows. He sho
them scratches on the rock which give eviden
today of the day the glacier moved.

On they move through Little Yosemite vall
where they stop, choosing one of the quieter p0
of the Merced, an ideal spot for lunch and
wading.

Already the plant life seems different from t
seen in the morning, and the naturalist explain
“life zones,” telling how different animals .
plants adapt themselves to life at different ele
tions, so that the climb of about two thousand i
in elevation has brought a completely differ
form of life, similar to that of Canada. Even
pronounced will the difference be in the next 7
days, when the party will climb into the Huds
ian zone where life is comparable to that of
Hudson Bay area, and finally will pass timberli
the limit of tree life, but not of plant life,
polemoniums, heather and other alpine flow
still persist, even in the country where snows 5
round them all summer. Life here is compar
to that in the Arctic. Thus in climbing a f
thousand feet the adventurers will find life 5

as they would otherwise see only by travel'
north to the Arctic zone.

1

  
    
  
  
   
  
  
   
  

O

Stopping for'the Night

The first night brings the hikers to Merc
Lake, a beautiful glacial lake, at one end of whi
lies the camp, a group of tents furnished sim
with comfortable cots, chairs, and wash stan
Very few others besides the hiking party are
the camp.

Dinner is the crowning event of the day, a
the soup, ham, trout (if the fishermen in the pa
have been lucky) vegetables, home-made bre
coffee and apple pie, in quantities that would ma
one blush under ordinary circumstances, disapp
rapidly. The dinner is doubly appreciated when
is realized that everything was brought up t
precipitous trail by mule back. Table talk
friendly and animated. Hiking and eating 'I
gether in the mountains have broken down ar 71
ficial reserve; seldom on such trips-is there
“Mr.,” “Mrs,” or “Miss” left after the first fe
days. ‘

Dinner over, every one is free. There are
obligations, no work to do. What a pleaure to
able to relax so completely! As the night shado '
gather the air grows chilly, sweaters are donn
gratefully, and the group migrates to the fire bu 

f:

1
|

‘ ‘

 

Q

l t of doors

‘1' the center
iii f c a m p.
7T hey sing old
ngs. Two of
e girls sing
I an improvised
parody on
#Ch member
pf the party,
hich brings
em a lion’s
are of ap-
lause. The
turalist tells
about some
subject close
to their inter-
ests— perhaps
the stery of
pioneers or
Indians in these moun-
ins, or it may be a
s ory of the bears or
' er abounding there. .
he camp hostess surprises the group by bringing
ut some corn, and the sound and smell of pop-
311g corn erase all memory of the huge dinner.
The campfire breaks up about nine, for the day
léls been long and morning comes early in the
‘ igh Sierra. There is not much talking in the
ts, except from one man so stimulated by the
. auties of that day that he must express his en-
thusiasm. The rest fall to sleep, and he talks on.
No bed was ever so comfortable as these little
: dats after a long hike! i
The brisk morning air makes appetites keen,
but even the hungriest of eyes are satisfied when
they fall upon prunes, corn flakes, cream of wheat,
eggs, bacon, fish, hot cakes, syrup, muffins, jam,
‘ coffee and chocolate. Eat some of everything—if
 you can! With such an encouraging start to the

   
 

Courtesy National Park Service

is off with a hearty “Good-bye l” to the couple who
operate the camp.

Off Again!

The second day carries the party to timberline,
over Vogelsang Pass, and gives the more ener-
. getic members the thrill of climbing, perhaps for
the first time, a real mountain—Vogelsang Peak,

11,511 feet high. Many people have questioned
the sense of climbing mountain peaks. Though

 

    

Mt. Dana. which is the second highest peak in Yosemite.
tempts many hikers to climb its more than l3,000 feet

. SEVENTY MILES BY FOOT IN THE SIERRA 305

the view. ob-
tained from a
peak is itself
sufficient re-
w a r d f o r
hours of la-
borious climb-
ing, there is
the additional
reward in a
s e n s e o f
achievement
and of physi-
cal self -suffi-
ciency that de-
fies all “com-
mon sense”
denunciation
of mountain
climbing.
Near the
pass the observant
hiker catches a
glimpse of the moun—

tain cony, that short-
legged, round-eared, tailless little “haymaker” of
the mountains, who prefers for his home the high
country just below timberline. J

This second day’s hike brings the adventurers
into still another zone of life. The red firs and
jefffrey pines are left behind, and the graceful
mountain hemlocks, the juniper and the white pine
take their places. Finally, as the last tree of tim-
berline, is the white-barked pine, the hardiest of
all Yosemite trees, forming forests of dwarfed
trees, triumphing in that bleak country which
forces other trees to seek more kindly altitudes.

When the pass is finally reached and the hiker
looks down on the vast expanse below, with its
many quiet glacial lakes, he forgets the stiff mus-
cles and sore feet that have irked him all morning.
On no other morning will those muscles annoy
him quite so much ; the second day out is always
the day when sore muscles manifest themselves.

Night finds the party at Vogelsang Camp, not
far below timberline. How quiet and restful here!
No city lights, no noisy doorbells or automobile
horns, in this restful little camp which looks up
toward eternally snow-covered peaks.

On the third morning the party starts out for
Tuolumne Meadows, taking its choice of two
routes, one direct, one longer. The longer, usually
more popular, follows the Lyell fork of the Tuo-

 

306 SEVENTY MILES BY FOOT IN THE SIERRA

lumne River. Here the water is heavily laden with
“glacial milk,” that white rock-powder which the

glacier on Mt. Lyell has incredibly ground and
which clouds the water for miles before the

stream can lay down its burden.

Tuolumne Meadows is a broad, flat area, filled
with flowers and lodgepole pines. Here the nat-
uralist spends much time showing the group the
flowers of the meadows, which are at their prime,
for it is still spring at this elevation. Indeed, from
April to September it is spring in the Sierra, if
one will but “follow the springtime” from the
foothills to the highest passes as the season
progresses.

The most civilized spot the hikers encounter is
Tuolumne Meadows, for here is a small store
where they may buy new supplies of adhesive
tape, films, or candy bars. Here, too, via the
Tioga Road, come automobiles, which look rather
strange, for the hikers have seen and heard noth-
ing like them for three days—a 'short time, per-
haps, but oh! how long in experience!

Mountain Climbing They Go!

Since two nights are to be spent in Tuolumne
Meadows, weary ones may rest all the next day.
Most, however, chose to tackle a real mountain
peak by climbing Mt. Dana, the second highest
peak in Yosemite, I 3,050 feet high. Early on the
fourth morning, then, burdened only with a
lunch, they start out, perhaps escorted this time
by the young ranger-naturalist from Tuolumne
Meadows. They. ride via the Tioga road to a
spot about four miles below the summit and start
hiking from the 9,700 foot level.

A wild flower garden, gaily carpeting the moun-
tain with myriad colors, greets them near the be-
ginning of the ascent. Flowers never before seem-
ed so colorful and luxuriant in growth. A sleek,
fat marmot, erect on his hind legs, peers at them
curiously from a granite boulder, barks shrilly,
then clambers awkwardly out of sight.

As the group goes higher the slope gets
steeper. Colorful, metamorphosed, sedimentary
rocks appear, contrasting vividly with the usual
grey granite of the Sierra, and the naturalist ex-
plains that these ancient rocks have remained un-
touched by the glaciers which scoured away sedi-
mentary boulders from the valleys below. On the
northeast slope of the mountain the party looks
down with wonder upon what seems at .first to be
a large patch of dirty snow. This is a living gla—
cier, grinding. with incredible force, the hard rock

below, even as, on a larger scale, did the glaci
which made Yosemite Valley.

Over the boulders they scramble, stopping
exclaim at the, tiny lichens—red, green, yello
white, and black—which cover large sections of t
rocks. Not until the very highest boulder on
mountain is reached do they sit down. Theirs
the reward of viewing a panorama of one of
most beautiful mountain ranges in the world.
the east they look down, far below, to Mono L
and the desolate Mono Craters. ‘Looking w
they see the jagged Cathedral Range in back
which lies Yosemite Valley from which they
parted three days before. North and south r
the main crest of the Sierra, with peaks as h'
as or higher than Mt. Dana, all mysterious, all
triguing, beckoning with that lure which Kipl
expressed when he wrote:

“Something hidden. Go and find it.
Go and look behind the Ranges——

Something lost behind the Ranges.
Lost and waiting for you. Go!”

  
  
   
    
  
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
 

Lunch and the signing of names in the regis
(a formality never neglected by the one wh
first mountain conquest this is) being over,
hikers trudge back to Tuolumne Meadows,
riving in time to take a shower and to rest bef
dinner and the evening campfire.

On the Fifth Day

The travelers, on the morning of the fifth d
cross the Meadows en route to Glen Aulin. O
of the girls has brought lemons and sugar, but
fuses to tell why. Her secret is out when

makes what the party unanimously agrees is t
“best soda p0p ever.”

Glen Aulin, the goal for the night, is arf ea
walk from Tuolumne Meadows, so the hikers
leisurely. Nevertheless, it is only shortly af
noon when they arrive. Some declare this to
the most beautiful camp of the entire trip, sit
ated as it is in a beautiful little glen at the base

bow and Lock Leven trout abound here, a
everyone wants fish for breakfast. Thundero
cascades, alternating with quiet pools, afford su
prises at every turn. The Waterwheel Falls a‘l
an unusual sight. The rocks upon which t

i

f

SEVENTY MILES BY FOOT IN THE SIERRA 307

waters rush throw the water upwards and back-
wards twenty feet into the air, giving the impres-
sion of a complete moving wheel of water.

‘I Then the Sixth Day!

The sixth day, leading over the McGee Lake
,trail, is another easy day. Or is it only that mus-
iEles have hardened so that hikes of ten miles seem
‘simple now? At any rate, the party is feeling
tested and gay, so some nature games are played
hs they walk. One of the games is “Sentinel.”
The leader of the group acts as sentinel beside a
ree or flower and refuses to let anyone go by
Without giving the “password,” which is the name
of that tree or flower. After five days with the
naturalist the hikers know the common trees and
flowers by name, but several have trouble with the
rare plants and, as punishment, must go to the
end of the hiking line.

In spite of the many floral displays they have
seen the travelers are not prepared for the lavish
extravagance of the meadows and woods along
this trail. Shooting stars, corn lilies, leopard lilies,
Queen Anne’s Lace, gentians, monkshood, colum-
llines, and countless other Sierran beauties abound
here. Among the pines the hikers glimpse that
most colorful and weird of all Sierran flowers, the
dazzling snow plant— “a very Mephistopheles
among plants,” garbed completely in bloody red,
with red stem, red bracts, and red flowers. Sights
like these are the reward of the conservation
policy of the national parks.

Each camp so far has had some unique attrac-
'tion, no two being alike,
and Tenaya Lake Hiker’s
Camp is no exception.
Here the sandy lake
shores invite the swim-
mer more than have the
cold glacial lakes above.
Here also is a rowboat,
and rowing is a welcome
sport, perhaps because it
1 uses the arms instead of
‘ tired legs. ‘

.x

The sixth day of the hike
finds the group at McGee
Lake with its rare charm

n

Courtesy National Park Sen-ice

 

The Last Night Together

This is the last night together, and the group
gathering around the campfire for the sixth time
is more meditative than before. Each night the
magic of the campfire has been exerting its spell,
and each night the members of the partyhave
shared their experiences more and more. Why is
it that conversation is freed from restraint and
artifice and pettiness when the speakers are look—
ing into dancing flames and glowing embers?
Perhaps the men feel a harking back to the primi-
tive times when all grave problems were decided
around a council fire. Or perhaps each man can
best forget himself by looking into the fire and
knowing that his companions are doing likewise.
There is a lot of nonsense about “looking the
other fellow in the eye” when one talks; for the
one who does is too likely to watch for the effect
his words'aure having on the other fellow; he is
not in the gentle self-forgetful mood of the finest
discussiops. ‘Many are the subjects discussed at
the campfire: Politics is mentioned, but it seems
far away and unimportant, belonging to another
world where newspapers, radios and other non-
essentials exist. Philosophy, science, religion, art
—the eternal verities—are more popular, and
there is a desire to measure one’s entire life with
these as the stale.

The last campfire breaks up reluctantly with
the singing of “Taps,” and the fire is doused out
with buckets of cold water until only wet grey
ashes, crowned by a swirl of grey dust, remain. ‘

(Continued on page 331)

 

Recreation After Fifty

By BERNARD SACHS, M. D.

ARRING certain well known
B physical limitations, the

proper form of recreation for men and
women over fifty, is to re-crcate, to continue do—
ing those things which one has been accustomed to
do, and to add a few new tricks. It is a sound
physiological principle that any organ of the body
must be encouraged to continue its activity if it is
to function normally. This is as true of the mind,
or let us say, of the‘ brain, as it is of the heart or

liver.
Do not stop re-creating at fifty, but keep on.

The chief trouble is that
men and women take too
much thought about advanc-
ing years. The best way to
make a hypochondriac of a
man is to let him feel that
he has done his job, that
his business ability has
brought him success and
therefore he may quit; or,
that a woman at fifty has
raised her family, has pre-
pared her children for their
life struggle, and therefore
there is very little else for
her to do. Instead of talk-
ing about recreation, or
even thinking about it, I
would much rather have
them forget all about the number
of years that are being added to
their span of life, and would have
them continue in their activities

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Reading, Pa.

Making a dress at the social center
is proving real recreation. She is
' "trick." for it is
the first dress she has ever made!

learning a new

 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
      
  
   
  

a heart that will pump sa
factorily. Keep on playing g
as long as you are able to do so without un
fatigue and without getting too mad at yours 
Twelve or fifteen holes instead of eighteen I
fill the bill.

And, if you have been a walker, an amat
Finley, keep up your daily walks; do not let y
limbs grow stiff. It is still the very best form
exercise for the aging person. As for riding,
into the saddle daily, if you ever had the habit
it, but ride easily and in a way that will not t
for unusual physical
mental strain.

Learn to run a car bef
fifty, and you may c
tinUe running it, and
will not be beset by dou
as to your reaction—time.
you start it after fifty,
may have a little hesitat
at the beginning, but th
are plenty of years left ' ,
you to remain in charge
that car and to remain .
wholly independent citiz ,
Do not depend on 0th :
until you have to.

The more careful the 1
you have led, especially ;
regards tobacco and a1 
hol, the more persistent you h .
been in some form of physi
exercise, the better prepared
will be for that greater longe

l.

   
    
  
  

to which we are now entitled.
Physical recreation does not tell the wh _
story. Mental activity is my main theme. Not
men and women are alike. Of course not. to
many a person would be helped if, in earl' .
years, he would develop special interests-- ti
merely hobbies —that would keep him interest
- in the affairs of the world aft
his own bread and butter peri
had been ended successfully. '
' A number of physicians, fee
ing this need very keenly, o

( Continued on page 332) in;

so long as there is any possibility of their con-
tinuing.

Of course it is a great thing to be able to play
tennis even after fifty. My own tennis was in-
hibited at fifty, “because I was told by my daugh-
ters, “Dad, your form is no longer fit to be seen
on the court.” Most men and women will do well
.after fifty to play doubles, not
singles. At. sixty, be sure that
your heart can stand the strain
even of doubles.

Golf you may continue as long
as you have legs to stand on, and

Dr. Sachs is one of the country's
leading neurologists and author-
ities on mental and nervous dis-
orders. He has written a number
of books and many monographs.

l

308 I
I

\
A

ll‘

 

Much interest centers about the
subiect of recreation in institutions
of various kinds. We present here
extracts from a statement prepar-
ed by Mr. Lies at the request of
the Director of the Governor's
Prison Commission who heard the
writer speak on the subiecf of lei-
sure in relation to prisons at a con-
ference of Illinois prison officials.

 

   
   
   
  

N RECENT YEARS the subject of leisure has been
receiving more and more attention at the hands
of all sorts of thoughtful people—educators,

tociologists, social welfare workers, clergymen,

criminologists, judges, probation workers and cer-
tainly among professional recreation workers.

Some prison authorities are turning over the sub-

ject in their minds and asking questions. And

that is well.

i In order to adapt a recreation program for lei-
sure time to the inmates of a correctional institu-
'on we must consider certain basic facts about
$ison population;

First, a large pr0portion of prison inmates got
into trouble because they did not know how to use
their free time to good advantage. Careful studies
lend proof of this assertion—either the inmates
were not educated for the constructive use of their
leisure or the opportunities for such use were not
easily accessible to them, or both.

Secondly, about ninety percent of the persons
committed to prisons and reformatories come out
again to mingle in society. There are compara-
tively few lifers. If, then, while they are incar-
cerated, they get no real education for leisure and
have no adequate opportunities for engaging in
free time activities, they will emerge as poorly
, equipped to deal with an abundance of leisure as
' they were before they were committed.

The third consideration that would naturally
come to the mind of the practical prison adminis-
trator is the necessity for considering the demands
on the prisoner’s time while in the institution. He

~ The Problem of Leisure in Relation

to

Correctional

. lnstitutions

By EUGENE T. LIES

National Recreation Association

must do his daily chores, he must work, he has
some schooling to attend to—he may perhaps get
some recreation.

In the fourth place, prisoners are pe0ple in a
controlled environment—a world apart—and must
be dealt with in a different way from a group that
faces recreation problems voluntarily.

The question thus arises—what can be done
during the period of incarceration to make these
people better men, better women, with better phy-
sical and mental health, with more wholesome
ideas about themselves; with better attitudes to-
ward the rest of human-kind, toward the com-
munity, the government, the law and the Great
Creator; with better ideas regarding work, better
skills developed for making living through work
and on the (whole better ideas as to what “quality
living” may be?

A prison program that embodied the right an-
swers to these queries would of necessity provide
the means for filling to the full the period of stay
of inmates from day to day. It would be a pro-
gram that presumably would arouse and hold
their interest, tend to keep them out of the dol-
drums of despair and make them of less disci-
plinary concern to the whole administration.

The spirit of officials, their attitude toward
prisoners, their very conception of the purpose of
incarceration would, in most cases, need radical
change from the thought that they are keepers
and punishers over to the other' conception that
they are guiders and trainers.

309

310 THE PROBLEM OF LEISURE IN RELATION TO CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTIOl

The three major elements in the total scheme of
things in the institution—work, schooling and rec-
reation—would need to be revamped to bring it in
accord with these ideas and this spirit, and, fur-
thermore, staffs would need to be trained accord-
ingly. Only in this direction lies the hope of mak—
ing detention in a prison or reformatory a salutary
rather than against a really dangerous process-—
dangerous to the individual committed and to
society.

Any program of recreation must be closely re—
lated to other phases of prison life. A word‘ is
necessary then about the two major phases of
prison life, namely work and education:

Work

On the work side, the correctional institution
must, of course, have in mind first production for
the institution’s oxvn needs, then if it can find
legitimate outside markets for more goods, it
produces more.

The evidence seems to be that these two objec—
tives do not provide sufficient labor for a large
inmate population to keep it busy through a rea—
sonable daily work period, whereupon follows the
“stretch-out” plan which puts more individUals
on a unit of work than are really necessary which
in turn encourages soldiering on the job. But
even this device fails in sizable institutions to
engage all inmates in useful labor. In either case,'
there is considerable idleness.

Reference must be made to the fortunately in—
creasing provision of definite trade instruction of
which shop practice is a part. This is all to the
good, provided the individual is expertly guided

into the type of training for which innate quali- '

ties and desires seem to fit him.

Education

The usual educational methods in correctional
institutions are deadly monotonous. Not enough
teaching materials are at hand,
no charts, no objects, no pic-
tures. Lesson learning is the
main idea. Not much, if any,
discussion. Little of the spirit
of adventure in learning is ap-
parent. Stern academic atmos—
phere prevails. Men and women
are regarded as children and
trifling are the techniques em-
ployed. And so minds are not
opened to wider horizons of un-

"Recreation is no longer consid-
ered to be among the superfluities
of life. but is one of the primal essen-
tials of healthy. well-rounded per-
sonalities. Recreation offers Oppor-
tunities for the free.‘ voluntary se-
lection of pleasurable activities of
mind and body which. by contrast
with the usual cares and routine oc-
cu pations of daily life,refresh and re-
iuvenate."—Clara Bassett in M en-
tal Hygiene in the Community.

  
  
   
    
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
   
    
    
 
  
   
 
 

derstandingvand appreciation, nor stimulated
an eager desire for more.

Then there is too much laid down in rou
course form and not enough attention paid to
individual and his peculiar needs.

In many institutions also there is insufficient
portunity given to those of higher mentalit
pursue cultural studies. Of course, all in
should be plentifully exposed to cultural ex
ences during their stay, this on various level
understanding in progressive succession.
about this later.

Recreation

Then we come to the field broadly termed “
reation.” Usually it is made to mean only p
cal activities whereas we should broadly inc
under this term all those things that can be
gaged in aside from the job which brings a li
the things which give deep satisfaction and
carried on with a free spirit.

It is clearly realized that in talking about
reation in a prison or reformatory we run int
sorts of prejudices and strange ideas as to n
pering‘ and the offering of soft living to law
lators. And yet the right understanding, the sc
tif'ic understanding of the nature of recrea
leads one to the conclusion that it can be use 
serve great human ends, immediate and in fut I
It can do something now to promote the very g
pose of a modern correctional institution, na 
the building up and turning out of real men ~
real women. !

Rightly handled, as to leadership, what can g
ticipation in activities in these fields do for hu
beings? Experience in the outside world as
as in institutions for convalescents, for the
tally sick, and in some institutions for wayw
and delinquents amply proves that you can, am
other things:

Arouse desire for knowledge

Arouse desire for health
strength

Develop self-respect

Develop desire to please other

Develop initiative and resourc
ness

Discover ’hidden talents which
,exercised bring a new sense of w
and dignity

Promote mutual helpfulness

Promote team work

Build appreciation of beauty
ability and greatness

Arouse wholesome awe and u

l

A

understanding of the wonders '
nature. , ‘ j
'l

 

i.

 

    
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
  

fl
l

, Tote the penetrating understanding of an au-
 ity as to the significance of recreation.

- Essential Needs of Recreation Program

Vhat then are the essential needs if a recrea—
. , program of this sort is to be carried out and
7 n'! departments of the institution are to combine
1 ir interest and efforts to turn out a worthwhile
an product?

he answer is :

ight leadership. employed, trained, understand-
, specialized leadership, supplemented by select-
! inmate leadership and selected volunteers from,
n outside. An adequate recreation program can-
ot be promoted by an athletic director. The right
erson for this job is one who has been trained
or the purpose.

ight facilities

It.

' Class rooms with modern educational equipment

lLibrary with adequate book, pamphlet, maga-
ine and picture stock (Here it should be remem-
ered that state libraries have extension depart-
‘ ents through which it may be possible to make
ook loan arrangements; also that state and fed-

rlil departments issue a large number of valuable
r'e and small cost pamphlets)

IChapel with church atmosphere
Gymnasium, adequate to care for peak loads
Small and large recreation fields
, Auditorium
Moving picture and stereopticon apparatus
rRadio receiving outfit
‘Shops
-Music rooms
Gardens
Greenhouse

Right Types of Recreation Activities
Samples of. types of activities are the following:

 
 
 

l
.r
hysical

Mental

Gymnasium classes Recreational reading and
Baseball study
Football - Literature and language
Push ball
courses

| Volley ball -

, Basketball History courses

‘ Track and field activities Economics and 50601037
Ping pong courses

. Horseshoes and quoits Discussion Groups
Shufiieboard Institution papers, weekly

1 . and monthly

[usual

Spelling bees

Lectures

Classes for special discus-
sion of leisure

6 . .

, Movmg pictures

' Stereopticon shows
Picture study

 

E PROBLEM OF LEISURE IN RELATION TO CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTIONS 311

Dramafic Manual—Arts and Crafts
One and two-act plays Woodwork
Impersonations. Meta] work
Minstrels C13 work
Puppetry Weiving

Civic and Social Plaque Work ?

Inmate committee respon- Drawmg

sibilities Painting
Activity leadership Pastels
responsibilities - Leather work

Inmate advisory council Cardboard work

responsibilities

Civics classes MUSlcal

Nature Bands
Astronomy Orchestras
Gardening Small ensembles

Microscope work Guitar and banjo clubs

Simple chemistry Harmonica clubs
Simple biology Choral groups, small and

Study of birds large
Study of flowers Choirs
Study of animals Concerts

In offering the above suggestions for program
activities it is understood that some of them can-
not be applied under the conditions of prison life.
They may be suggestive, however, as to the direc-
tion a recreation program may take.

Important Considerations

1. More participation and less onlooking.

2. Participation of the many as over against
development of star teams in the physical realm.

3. Participation by everybody in some one or
two special activities with choice given to choose.

4. Form hobby clubs

5. Use holidays for special events.

6. Hold periodical exhibitions of art and hand-
craft products.

7. Bring outside talent, carefully selected, into
the institution at regular intervals: speakers, mu-
sicians, artists, business men, doctors, lawyers, etc.

8. Before, the time for parole or discharge ar-
rives give the prisoner a well written booklet on
the'subject of use and abuse of leisure, its possi-
bilities for degrading human life or elevating it to
sublime heights of satisfaction and happiness.

Last Word

The problem of leisure fora correctional in-
stitution, has two aspects; one that pertains to the
life of the inmate while he is held in leash; the
other has to do with the same person when he is
out on parole or has been discharged.

The regimented unnatural life of a prisoner
tends to make him rebellious and to drive him
crazy: leisure time occupation with a tinge of joy
in it may keep him tractable and sane.

(Continued on page 333)

." .1
! v . f
w- $¢g§k~

'_ g m 5:.- ; 

ertcsy West Palm Beach, Florida

 

Public Recreation in Resort Cities

“ HE QUEEN CITY invites
Tyou to come and play.”
“A good city to work in,
to live in, to play in.” “Here is the world’s great-
est playground.” “Visitors welcome.”
Such slogans as these are to be found in many
a resort city whose recreation for tourists and
visitors is its chief business. And where recrea-
tion is a major public service meeting the leisure
time needs of visitors as well as of home folks
there are special problems of administration.
One of these problems is that of finance. While
many of the activities for tourists are self-directed
and self-supporting through fees and club dues,
others are provided at some expense to the city,
and the recreation budget must be adequate to
care for the unusual demands of those who are
in the city primarily to play. This is- necessary if
the city is to provide for adequate structures and‘
outdoor spaces for the use of out-of-town visitors.

Special Facilities, Features and Services

The resort city will not only give unusual at-
tention to the development of its natural and ac-
quired open spaces and buildings but it will need
to provide very generously for sports such as golf,
tennis, Badminton, bowling on the green and a1-
ley bowling, shuffleboard, roque and croquet,
handball and squash; for fields for baseball,
cricket, polo and soccer; for bridle paths and hik—
in’g trails; for facilities for aquatics, boating, fish—

312

By GEORGE W. BRADEN

National Recreation Association

ing and winter sports, and f
indoor centers for dining a ‘
dancing, pool and billiards, ca
games and other quiet recreational activiti 5
Special features and services will include amp .7
picnic areas with all services for lunching and f ]
cooking meals, boardwalks and rest pavilions .3
beaches and watering places, andample opportun ,
ties for music, arts and dramatics. Many reso
cities have daily organ recitals, frequent band an I'
orchestra concerts and community sings. So
consider reading rooms, rest places and librzii:
service as recreation service. Special major fea-
tures are museums and galleries, aquaria, plane!—
taria, zoological gardens, arboretums, conserva‘
tories and special gardens. “
l

I

For the Children of Visitors

Special consideration is given to the childre
through playgrounds, children’s gardens, chil-
dren’s libraries and indoor centers under traine.
and skilled leaders. Programs for children will
include radio, story-telling, puppet shows, arts and
crafts rooms, garden and nature tours, and sport
leagues and tournaments. Groups and classes ar'
often arranged in arts and crafts, swimming
beach sports, music and rhythmics. If the reso
is one having large historic interest, literature
guides and lectures should be arranged for. , 

(Continued on page 333) r

Question: l/V hen a recreation department does
t have funds enough for the salary of a special
dcraft instructor for boys, is there any way of
nducting a program which will at least give the
ys a taste of a handcraft program?
Answer: We were faced with this problem on
e Montreal playgrounds so we hit on the fol—
l wing scheme. We held several meetings of the
en supervisors at which the question of hand—
aft for boys was discussed from every possible
gle. Finally it was decided that rather than
ve no handcraft activities at all, each supervisor
Would be made responsible for conducting hand-
craft activities on his playground. Suggestions
\ or games with diagrams were drawn up and some
f the games were included in the playground kits
5 a means of arousing interest. Each supervisor
was allotted a cash budget of $15 with which to
uy such material as paints, sandpaper, fretsaw
lades and other supplies. Each ground was given
00 feet of scrap lumber and material for making
lletin boards. Additional supplies were to be
rnished by the children themselves from cigar
d grocery stores.
' It is rather early to predict the success of this
oject, but there is every indication that it is
orking out successfully. — Stanley Rough,
neral Supervisor, the Montreal Parks and Play—
ounds Association, Incorporated.

  
  
    
  
    

Question: There exists in our city a gang of
, ys from fifteen to nineteen years of age who
I! e not attended school beyond the sixth grade.
Terese boys live in a neighborhood near atoni-
Till-i3! house, a playground and several churches,
b't they refuse to participate in the programs of
t y of these agencies. They have an urge to de-
s roy the facilities at these cen-

3‘ rs. I have been presented with

    
 
 

l You Asked for ltl

neighborhoods where such gangs as you describe
are to be found. These workers have responsi-
bility for reducing juvenile delinquency by enlist-
ing young people in suitable recreational oppor—
tunities. This plan has been most successful. The

Iworkers go into neighborhoods where there is

high potential delinquency, associate with the boys
and young pe0ple of the community, become ac—
quainted with them, and after establishing a
friendly relationship, try to interest them in the
recreational opportunities which the neighborhood
affords.

If any plan is to work successfully it must take
into account the fact that the young people con—
cerned are individuals with definite interests and
abilities. A ready-made program will not succeed
nor will any plan which overlooks the importance
of first winning the confidence of the group and
establishing a friendly relationship with them.
Until the leader becomes acquainted with the
group it is impossible to say just what the program
should be. Experience in other cities has shown,
however, that boys of the age with whom you
plan to work who are active and alive and come
from neighborhoods of limited opportunities are
more often than not interested in athletics. In
Boston, for example, it is found that young men
from eighteen to twenty responded to the recrea-
tion program mainly through major sports com-
petitions. Although this may in general hold true,
athletics are not the final answer. Some of the
boys may be interested in cultural activities, others
in intellectual hobbies.

The experience of Jane Addams in Chicago is
the best proof of this, and for an,understanding
of the situations which she found there you could
do no better than read her well—known book, The
Spirit of Youth and the City
Streets, (Macmillan Company).
Miss Addams later wrote a

t e challenge of reaching these
A s. W ill you tell me what has
b.'een done FOR, BY and WITH
sp-ch groups elsewhere to turn
I d struclit'e forces into construc-
tfe citizenship?

Answer: The San Francisco
' Recreation Commission is meet-
ing a problem such as yours by
assigning workers at large to

    
   
 
   
 
 
  

We want to remind you again that
we are depending on our readers
for material for this page. What
are some of the problems you have
had to face in the development of
your recreation program? How did
you meet these problems? What
activities, and what methods of
organization have you found par-
ticularly successful? Have you any
"budget savers" to suggest? Your
suggestions will help some one!

book, Twenty Years at Hull
House, which you may also
want to look up.

A more up-to-date study of
youthful gangs and their inter-
ests and activities is reported in
the book entitled, .The Gang,,by
Frederic Thrasher (University

(Continued on page 334)
313

Journalism in Miniature

INCHESTER PARK was the site
w of the oldest graveyard in

Memphis, Winchester
Cemetery, the resting' place of
many of the pioneers of the city. Neglected and
crumbling, it remained an eyesore until a few
years ago when the tombstones were cleared
away and replaced with swings, slides, sand—piles
and a large wading pool. The one-time cemetery
has become a shady, green-grassed park to which
the children Hocked from the crowded neighbor-
hood.

We had no grounds for complaint where the
attendance of the children was concerned. They
knew that the playground was theirs to use and
enjoy. On the other hand, the adult attendance,
while fairly large, was not in proportion. The older
people seemed not to realize that recreation was
for them as well as for children; that a play-
ground is not just an athletic field but also an
open-air classroom for handicraft, dancing, dra-
matics and singing. Our playground needed a
channel for communicating its value to the neigh-
borhood and establishing a closer bond between it
and the community at large.

One day when we were recalling the active and
useful part that the student paper played in our
High School life and wondering if a similar in-
strument could not possibly fit our present need,
the president of the local civic club asked our
opinion on publishing a mimeographed bulletin
advertising each week’s special activities. At the
same time he offered to furnish stencils and paper
and the use of a mimeograph machine in his of—
fice if the playground directors would take charge
of assembling the news.

The First Steps Are Taken

Five associate editors were chosen from the

boys and girls, each having one of the following

activities to write about: I.

By AGNES HAAGA
Recreation Department

Memphis Park Commission

   
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
   
   
  

gathered news regarding their a
signed activities from the captai
of the athletic teams, ofhcers a
the safety council and the pre
dents of the various classes. For future pr
grams and events the playground directors w

consulted.
The front page sketch for the first issue pu

lished July I, 1936, and all the following iss
were selected from a bulletin made up by the R
reation Department. This bulletin contains a d 
tailed schedule of the summer’s activities and si (
ple sketches illustrating each week’s events. Th
all our little papers, whether they advertised t
Fourth of July activities, the wading poo} carni
or the Tales of Enchantment Week, were appr »
priately illustrated.

After the material had been gathered, asse
bled and typed on stencils, it was turned over I
the president of the civic club, who ran it throu
the mimeograph machine after office hours. i ,
the summer the office of the Recreation Depa '
ment furnished more necessary materials, inclu
ing the use of its own mimeograph machine, a
the directors, with the assistance of the edito
were responsible for the mimeograph work.

The First Issue

The first two-paged paper contained our ne .
playground cheer song, editorials expressing a
preciation to members of the Park Commissi
and the 'civic club, officers and the time and pla
of meetings of the Safety Council and a ne
safety song. In the program column the nam I
of the winners, judges and participants in t
week’s pet show were given and details of «-
next program announced. In the athletic colu .
appeared the captains and alternate captains a i 1
stars of the adults’ and children’s ball teams, scor
of games already played and the time and place a

future games. 

girls’ athletics; 2. boys’ athlet-
ics; 3. sand modeling and handi-
craft; 4. safety; 5. special pro—
grams and coming events. (In—
cluded in the last were dra-
matics, dancing and singing ac-
tivities.) The editors appointed

314

Miss Haagal the playground di-
rector responsible for initiating the
miniature newspaper described in
this article' strongly advocates
the publication of such short news
sheets as a means- of arousing in
adults a realization of the values
the playground has to otter them.

Pressed for space in this fir
issue, a detailed schedule. s
summer activities for childre
and adults was promised in t I
next paper and an invitatio
was extended to everyone, b’

M
(Continued on page 334) . .-

   
  
   
 

I

   
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
  

,' Mountain Climbing Has Its Thrills!
l. i

in UFFALO PARK aleinS BUEaIO By SARAH OWEN in search of artificial pleasures that
“ Creek in South Platte Canyon, seem to sap our very life and soul.

I

l. colorado’ and lies about ' It was while I was here that
lfty miles west of Denver. We have come to feel that more con- I truly learned to live and love
twenty or SO years ago it was suderation should be given in the the out of doors, The peace
.- fashionable summer resort, magazine to the forms of recreation and the quiet, the gay songs Of

_ . wh'ch ' d'v'dul e ' . A d .
" t with the gromg Popu' frolm tiliieltlo Erie :Loyshan Subliiii the blrds» and the Chatter 0‘

arity of automobiles people articles telling of activities peop|e the “sassy” little furry folk
ught more remote Places and enjoy by themselves. away from who came to know me so well
1 Halo Park lost some of its crowds. Anyone who- has experienced that they would eat out of my

atronage Nevertheless the the thrillblof mountain climbing and hand, thrilled me. Wise and
eauty of this park and its sur- as Slum .ed TF0; 5°?“ agvem‘ure' knowing are these little wild
I d. till survives and I as mountain cIm ers .Invatlably do. f 1k d I 1 d t make
Oun mgs 5_ ’ wnll appreciate the Situation which 0 ’ an _ (We 0

ove to think of the many Mrs. Owen so Vivien), "describes, friends With them.

appy hours I spent during the We had always been lovers
, ree years I lived there with my lawyer husband of rural life and had a dream home which would
hile he was recuperating from an illness. , be nestled in a quiet, peaceful valley with the music

Our chief recreation was hiking over the moun- of a low murmuring stream flowing close by. In
ains with gun or fishing rod in hand. Usually my Canada, where I was born, I was never happier
usband and I would go together, but there were than when wandering through the woods or along
ilnes when I delighted in wandering away by my- the river banks. My husband, American born,
elf to listen to the wild voices about me. There migrated with his parents from Indiana to Min-
ino finer or better way of restoring one’s health nesota in an ox-drawn covered wagon when he

an by getting close to nature—breathing deeply was a boytonly twelve years of age. Since we are
: d inhaling the healthgiving odors of the vege— both from pioneer stock we come naturally by our
.tion nature has given us. To do this is to feel love of natUre. My husband greatly enjoys re-
: eself come alive and to awaken to the joy of calling the days of the founding of Lamar, Colo-
: mple living from which rado, where he helped his
. . many of us have strayed ~ parents set out the first

Adventure is certain to await him who would
go mountain climbing in our national parks!

' -77- - -— - a”- —- - 7 — - -_——I__ ._-.
— . . I' - —
I -

 

‘- I'l-
. -. I .. J. '
0 ' ‘ t '_ '

I ' {o
I '. .

Courtesy National Park Service

315

 

316 MOUNTAIN CLIMBING HAS ITS THRILLS!

peach tree which thrived and bore prolil’ically.

I was always inclined to be venturesome. One
afternoon late in the spring, the air was warm and
redolent of the freshness of the pines. Flowers
everywhere seemed to lift their faces to welcome
and beckon me on. Beside me trotted Blackie, our
cat, who felt she always had the right to accom-
pany me on my strolls. She would follow along,
first behind me, now in front of me, sometimes so
close to me that she would threaten to trip me.
Then again she would race ahead of me only to
hide behind a clump of bushes and jump out at
me on all fours with her back arched like a buck-

ing bronco. She was good company and I de-.

lighted having her along.

On this particular afternoon I donned my hik—
ing togs and we went, Blackie and 1, down the can-
yon along the prohle of the mountain. After
tramping about two hours I stopped at a point
opposite the Cathedral, a mountain noted both for
its beautiful coloring and its resemblance to a
cathedral. A little farther up the canyon is an-
other noted landmark in the form of a mountain
known as “the Bishop” because of its striking re-

semblance to a preacher in his robes standing be-“

fore his pulpit, reading.

It was at this point opposite the Cathedral that
I decided I had tramped far enough and should
be returning. Stumbling over fallen trees and
stubbing one’s toes against unobserved rocks or
stones are part of the price one pays for hiking in
the mountains, and I found myself doing this
many times. I had climbed under the last barbed
wire fence and was on our own ground again, but
I was still about half a mile from our cabin stand-
ing high on the mountain top. Dreamily and
somewhat tired I strolled along the mountain side
looking neither up nor down. I was about midway
up the mountain and was making good progress
when I became venturesome. The soil had disap—
peared from under my feet and I was walking on
sandy ground which for the most part was
granite. It was easy enough going for a time since
the rock was ridged and my feet found firm foot-
ing on these. But, alas, the ridges gave out and

the granite became smooth and sleek and dis-3*

'integrated in places. If ever I was thankfuli'for
crepe rubber soles it was then for they helped me
materially in keeping me from slipping. I was
afraid to turn back. The farther I went the more
the rock seemed to crumble under my feet. I
looked about me now and all that I could see, it

seemed, was granite, granite, staring me in the

face! I felt panicky. I' chanced to look down
mountain and to my horror saw at its feet a

bulent creek dashing against huge,- jagged b
ders lying thick and forbidding in it. I wan
to cry out for help but this would avail not

for no one could hear me above the roar of

creek.

It was then I recalled vividly what a n
climber had told me about his experience.
"would raise himself up the side of a huge bou
on his back by planting his heels and the p
of his hands firmly against it, and raise hi
by inches up its side. He would, too, dig his
and finger tips into the side of the mountai
get a better hold, and in this way work his w
the summit. I tried the latter method, but 1
risky business digging with the toes where
rock is disintegrated for one may easily 10
more 'than is desirable. I went slowly and
finger tips were nearly raw from clawing awa
the nne gravel. All the time I kept saying to
self, “Keep a cool head, keep a cool head.”
seemed a long time before I dared move my f
About five feet above me was a stocky little u
about a foot in height. I knew from experi
in trying to dig up trees of this kind that t
roots go deep into the soil, and I realized tha
I could only pull myself up within reach of it .
grasp it, it would hold me and I could then u l
myself to safer ground. I was still trembling .
feared the consequences should I fail to grasp
little pine or should it give way with me. “K
a cool head,” I continued to caution myself .
somehow I did. By degrees I crept slowly
until I was within a foot of the pine. And t
in what seemed to be sheer desperation I spr
toward it and succeeded in grasping it. How
poor heart thumped! I drew my feet up un
me and pulled myself up on the rock. Out 0
crevice in this the little pine had rooted itself .
was held so fast that all my efforts to dislodg
were futile. I wanted to transplant it to a I
where I could care for it and watch is grow.

As you may imagine, I sat on the summit
that rock for some time collecting my wits a
looking down at that rushing stream which
snows of winter had swollen into such an an
torrent that it would have rapidly swallo
me up. I '

And where was Blackie all this time? I cast a;
eyes Higher up the mountain and Spied her sitti
_on her hind legs squinting down at me and se I
ing to say, “You’re lucky!” As I approached
she scampered playfully away ahead of me I
home where I found her on the doorstep. i;

ll

   
      

.5
s

i
' l

‘ ii

‘
I

  
    
     
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
     
     
    
  

‘ I

s,

RITAIN IS DEEPLY_ concerned about her national
physique. Recent findings show that due to
faulty .nutrition and lack of physical train-
many of her subjects are far below par.

  

l
i quate nutrition for those in need; and now a
’2 prehensive plan for physical training and rec-
tion has been announced.

' ‘ memorandum explaining the government’s
' posals for the development and extension of
- facilities available has been presented to the
rliament by the President of the Board of Edu-
L ion and the Secretary of State for Scotland.
is memorandum describes the present position
- physical training and recreation in the country,
rks the inadequacy of existing facilities, dis-
sses important questions of policy and outlines
cheme of advance.

nting in proper leadership and facilities. The
atest need was found outside the schools, how-
r, in the lives of those whose daily environ-
5 l t was in the office and workshop. Local au-

= rities were found to have a variety of powers
9 aiding physical training and recreation. Vol-

eer organizations were strong and varied.

Why Should Government Act?

II the light of all of these agencies and powers
.' ct locally, the question was raised as to why
%. ernment should find it necessary to take special
l~ cautions to see that proper training was given.
I
ll sure of control coordination of effort, the pro—
' on must necessarily be sporadic and .incom-
I. e, and that the funds available from all sources
insufficient to cover the ground as fully, as
ed.” A major argument for government ac--
' was that facilities provided
' existing agencies varied great-
between districts, and the
 rer areas were likely to be
ected.
stions of policy were raised.
'. . Should attendance on these
1 exercises be compulsory or
f ntary? '

he answer was that all par-
i pation should be voluntary.

tive measures have already been taken to assure.

The schools were first examined and found.

' answer, in brief, was “that without some '

This digest has been made from
the Physical Training and
Recreation Memorandum ex-
plaining the Government's pro-
posals for the development and
extension of the facilities avail-
able.. presented by the Presi-
dent of the Board of Education
and the Secretary of State for
Scotland to Parliament, by
command of His Majesty.

hysical Training and Recreation

"1

Great Britain

“The aim of ,government is not to secure that
between certain ages every boy and girl practices
certain physical exercises or achieves a certain
standard of physical development, but to incul—
cate a wider realization that physical fitness has a

tude of mind, the importance of which is continu-
ous and not limited to certain years in early

youth.” '

2. Should the scheme be built up anew from the
start, or should it be based on deve10pment of ex-

isting agencies.

The reply to this policy question is significant.

“It would :— be not only wasteful but bad
policy to ignore the large and varied amount of
work that is already being done by various agen-
cies, both public and private-‘—. A scheme operated
direct by the state might secure a greater uni-
formity in the facilities provided, but it would not
achieve its purpose if, as is probable, it failed ow—
ing to its very uniformity, to attract the attendance

of those for whom it was designed.”

3. What should be included within the scope of

physical training and recreation?

The answer was “any scheme must embrace the
whole field of physical culture and should there-
fore include arrangements for increasing the sup—
ply not only of gymnasia, but also of playing
fields, swimming baths, and other
means of healthy physical recrea-
tion. Moreover, it has to be rec-
ognized that many may desire
opportunities for physical exer—
cise and recreation not solely as
such, but as a part of a fuller
club, or community life, and the
scheme will accordingly extend to
combined provision of this char—

acter.”

317

of

318 PHYSICAL TRAINING AND RECREATION IN GREAT BRITAIN

The Proposed Scheme

The scheme as laid before Parliament called for
organization on the following basis:

(I) Two National Advisory Councils of about
thirty men and women each, one for England and
Wales, and one for Scotland. The duty of these
Councils will be to survey the field and to advise
as to the needs of development and as to the way
in which they can best be met. These Councils
will set up local committees.

(2) Two Grants Committees, of three mem-
bers each, who shall dispose of applications for
grants, and attend meetings of the Advisory
Councils.

(3) Local Committees, Whose members shall
be representative of local educational authorities
(for higher education in England), of voluntary
bodies, and of other persons who have special
knowledge and experience. (The term “local” is
broader than city or town, and may mean county,
or county borough, or even regions.) These com—
mittees shall stimulate local interest and coordin-

ate local effort.

Applications for grants will go through them,
they will pass on the comparative values of the
proposals and the extent to which their cost can
be met from local sources.

(4) Paid Secretaries

Each Local Committee should appoint as a paid
secretary a person who is especially qualified for
the tasks in hand.

Allocation of Grants

The Grants Committees will have power to al—
locate funds for the following purposes.

I. Capital grants for the provision of gymnasia
and gymnastic equipment, and also for necessary
equipment in connection with any associated club
or community center.

2. Grants for particular local projects. (Funds
will not be given to central voluntary organiza-
tions for distribution. This is done to see that
funds are equitably distributed.)

Projects of local authorities, as well as volun-
tary organizations will be equally valid.

3. Grants to selected national organizations
which will enable them to supervise facilities pro-
vided by local voluntary bodies with the aid of
grants.

4. Grants for the establishment of a National
College of Physical Training.

‘ not only through the scheme described here j

Fields Foundation which will have over £400,

    
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
   

The purpose of this college is the training
men leaders who may exercise wide infiuence
the realm of physical education. No provision
made for women, because there is said to
enough training facilities for women.

5. Grants to certain university centers
other training institutions with a view to pro
ing training in physical education along mod
lines.

6. Grants to the Central Council of Recrea
Physical Training (this body corresponds t
National Council of Social Agencies.)

This is meant to supplement other provis'
for training, to provide expert advice, and w
necessary, to provide adequate salaries for te
ers and leaders.

7. Grants to the National Playing Field
sociation, to make that body responsible for .
sidering application and distributing grants in
for the provision of playing fields.

8. Grants for Swimming Baths.

Such grants will be made only where 3
baths cannot be provided by local authorities.

9. Grants in aid for camp sites and other

c111t1es for physmal recreation.

Finance

Accurate forecasts of the cost of such a I {A
gram of government aid could not be made. H ,v
ever, “the Government consider that the ne 
sary capital grants “would be of the order of I J
million pounds spread over a period of about t
years, . . . and that in addition annual char .
might be in the neighborhood of £150,000.”

This outline of Britain’s plan for grants in
for national and local physical training and re
ational projects is significant in that it is on a a
manent established basis with simple but effec ‘
organization for its administration; provides
training of leadership and is designed corn
hensively to meet the needs of groups that h I
been missed by the efforts of local authorities .
voluntary organizations. '

' I

Playing Fields, the Journal of the Nati
Playing Fields Association, London, is record
the developments taking place in Great Brit

also through such agencies as the King Geor

to spend on the provision of playing fields.  j

g
'i

   

THE Board of Park
Commissioners of
Lansing, Michigan, in
cooperation with the
cal WPA, has sponsored 27 interesting women’s
' lubs with a total membership of 350. The clubs,
' nown as “Home-Makers’ Club,” are composed
f women who are or have been on relief. The
[roups meet twice a month in homes of members.
rograms of the meetings include discussions
tf health topics, food preparation, home dec-
v ration and character building. Some time dur-
ng each meeting is given to games or social
activities. These clubs are quite distinct from
he recreation clubs which meet in school gym-
nasiums during the winter and which are made
up largely of young married women. From the
membership of these clubs Mrs. H. R. Harvey,
Director of Recreation, has arranged for a three
day,camp for about 100 women which will be
eld at the Boy Scout camp. Mrs. Harvey is

ssisted in her program for the women’s clubs
y five WPA workers.

Women’s Clubs
in Lansing

 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
     
   
  
 
 
  
  
    
 
   
 
 

’-

TWO novel activi-
ties have been con-
ducted in Q u i n c y,
Massachusetts, un-
er the auspices of the WPA. A solitaire tour-
ament was conducted for 16 weeks with 962
~ articipants. Sixteen different games were
rinted in'the ledger, one each week, and win-
ers were selected every week. A magazine
xchange proved very successful. From March
through April 30, 1937,'1,172 magazines were
eceived, 2,246 were exchanged, and 671 were
ad on the premises.

Some Novel
Activities

l
l

 

THF. Board of Rec-

reation Commission-
ers of Linden, New
Jersey, in its first
i nual report ending April 15, 1937, gives an
counting of its use of the $10,000 appropri-
ted by the Common Council for the first year’s
‘ ork. It tells of block dances and roller skating
, 0’ venings, of eight playgrounds and five com-
’ i unity centers conducted, of an athletic pro-

Linden’s First Year
in Recreation

5

    

'1

 

WORLD AT PLAY

gram, and of the development of hobby clubs.
A room, formerly the police court room, has
been transformed into a hobby room for the
hobby clubs. Benches for woodwork and model
aircraft building have been built and powerized
tools have been installed. A small alcove has

been made into a dark room for the use of the
camera club.

 

IN an article in the
Indianapolis Times,
Olive Barton urges

, saving plenty of
room in the backyard for the children’s play-

ground. She suggests making this playground
as attractive as possible by planting trees and
shrubbery. “Go to the city market or a tree
nursery and you will be surprised at the low
cost of saplings and shrubs. Willows, if you
have damp ground and often if you haven’t,
will grow very fast and soon will be as large
as your house. If porches are not screened and
the children use them for play rooms, there are
innumerable vines to be planted.” Among these
are morning-glories, Woodbine or Virginia
creeper, moon—vine, Dutchman’s pipe and hon-
eysuckle.

Make Your Yard
Attractive !

 

JUNE 13-20 was
designated as Recre-
ation Week in Salt
Lake City, U t a h,
when Mayor Erwin issued a proclamation urg-
ing “the people of Salt Lake City to avail them-
selves to the fullest of the recreational activi-
ties available in Salt Lake City and to encour-
age their friends and associates to greater en-
joyment of public parks, playgrounds, canyons,
resorts and other recreational areas.” During
the week Fairmont Park was formally opened
with a dedication ceremony at the outdoor
theater, and there were a number of special
events and radio broadcasts scheduled during
the week. On four days there were recreation
lunches held by the Executives’ Club, the.
Knights of the Round Table, the Elks and the
Kiwanis Club. Fifteen recreation centers were
opened for the season and a three day recrea-
tion training institute was held.

Recreation Week in
Salt Lake City

319

320 WORLD AT PLAY

“How To Produce a Play"

» » A series of articles by Jack Stuart

Knapp which first appeared in a
number of issues of RECREATION

have been brought together in a book-
let just oll’ the press.

» » Choosing and casting the play;
the rehearsals; the final performance;
suggestions for costuming, make-up,
lighting and scenery, make this an
exceedingly practical, helpful book
for the inexperienced play director.

Price $.50

Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue
New York City

National

A ShakesPeare Festival—The Berkeley, Cali—
fornia, Community Players, is a group spon—
sored by the Berkeley Recreation Department
under the supervision of Charles W. Davis.
The Director of the Players and his staff are
workers from a WPA project. The players
were organized in 1933 and since that time
have continuously produced plays for both
children and adults. From time to time they
present original plays, but most of their pro-
ductions have been well known theater classics
with particular emphasis on Shakespeare and
eighteenth century comedy. An annual play
writing contest, drama tournament and civic
Christmas pageant are among their activities.
All of the major productions of the group com—
bine the allied arts of the theater, music, danc-
ing and drama.

On June 5 the Hayward recreation leader-
ship project sponsored by the County Super—
intendent of Schools and the Hayward Com-
munity Recreation Commission, presented the
Community Players in a Shakespeare Festival
at the Bret Harte School amphitheater. There
were Morris Dancers, the Highland Sword
Dance and other English dances and selections

 

  
    

were given by the English Ballad Singer
Scenes were given from four of Shakespear
plays. One of the interesting things about t :
festival was the fact that it represented a co -:
munity cooperative project and an interchan

of talent and facilities. The people of Haywa
have recently completed a fine outdoor amp
theater, but they have no group of players. T
Berkeley group has been producing plays '
some time and have the necessary Organizati I

Recreational Demonstration Areas—Acco
ing to Arno B. Cammererhdirector of the
tional Park Service, twenty-six organized \
cation camps on recreational demonstrati
areas in thirteen states are ready for use t
summer. Leases have been executed wit
number of organizations which are sponsori
vacations in these areas for children of famil'
of the lower income group.

The “Story Lady” Visits Akron Playgroun
-——The first annual report of the Akron, Oh
Department of Recreation tells of the sto
telling program conducted last summer on t
city’s playgrounds. The “story lady,” as s
was called, with the help of three assistan
and some volunteers conducted 50 story hou
weekly at 25 different playgrounds for grou
ranging in size from five to over 100. At .
times ’the informality of the summer pla
ground was observed. The group sat in a circ
on the grass under the trees or on the ed
of a sand box or on benches if it had been rai
ing. Dogs and kittens, too, sometimes we
among the listeners, especially on days wh
pet shows were held. Each program was car
fully planned ‘in advance, and a wide range
the type of stories was sought. Sometimes t
children themselves would take part by telli ‘
stories and occasionally stories' were dram
tized.

J

Sports Week in Hamilton—From June 19 r
June 28 Hamilton, Canada, celebrated Spor
Week. There was a great variety of even
from baseball games to an elaborate aquati.
carnival. Bicycle races, pet shows and horse,
shoe pitching tournaments were among th"
activities in which individuals and communi
groups participated. The week was in char
of the Hamilton Sports Week Association, :3

D.

g

'

   

J

 

l.

f
l

‘ protection.
Wedges can be driven' in and glued' which will

library service through

WORLD .«lT PLA Y 321

which J. J. Syme, Superintendent of Recrea-
tion, is honorary secretary.

Grand Rapids Conducts an Institute — On
June 7, 8 and 9 at Camp Blodgett on Lake
Michigan near Grand Haven, the Department
of Health and Physical Education and Public
Recreation of the Grand Rapids Board of Edu-
cation dedicated its third annual recreation in—
stitute. The program included the discussion
of a number of topics not usually found on
institute programs — for example, American
folk lore in recreation, nature study, mounting
and modelling,-the making of musical instru—
ments on the playgrounds, stringed instrument
instruction, Indian lore and bead stringing, and
organizing the playground program for the
socially retarded youngster. There were a
number of demonstrations and exhibits in con-
nection with the institute.

Detroit’s Annual Kite Day —— Almost 700
kites were entered in the Kite Day contests
recently held under the auspices of the Detroit,
Michigan, Recreation Department. The chil-
dren contested under the following classifica-
tions: Junior standard division, ages eleven to
fourteen; novelty juvenile frame division; big
kite division, box kite division; juvenile stand-
ard frame division, and junior novelty division.

A New Playground in Sydney, Australia——
The Municipal Council of Sydney, Australia,
has opened its second playground. An interest-
ing feature is the establishmentnof a children’s
the City Library,
through which 1,000 volumes are now avail—
able. An assistant librarian visits the play-
ground one afternoon each week between 3 :30
and 5:30 to arrange for the issue and return of
books. The library is housed in a new field
house containing a club room, a play room for
children of preschool age, two staff rooms with
attached dressing rooms, two storage rooms,

‘and toilets for boys and girls.

Tether Ballu—Hartzell E. Buckner, Fairfield,
California, writes he has found that the tether
ball pole can be held in place by the use of an old
car wheel. If the tire is still on the rim it adds
This can be rolled about at will.

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of
Equipment for a" Sports

3

\\‘\\

THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, Inc.
I0HN AND FINDLAY srs, CINCINNATI, OHIO

 

hold it secure. The string holding the ball may
be a small clothesline rope, woven not braided.
Mr. Buckner writes that he leaves two feet of
rope slack at the top of the pole which can be
let out as the rope wears off at the lower end.

The American Planning and Civic Associa-
tion Meets—The necessity for wise planning
was stressed at a dinner held in Washington
under the auspices of the American Planning
and Civic Association, Frederick A. Delano
presiding. Three speakers, Dr. Wood, district
chairman of the National Resources Commit-
tee from the University of California, Mr.
Charles Elliott, executive officer of the com-
mittee, and Dr. Charles E. Merriam, a member
of the committee, also a member of the Presi—
dent’s Committee on Administrative Manage-
ment, stressed the importance of planning for
city, county, state and nation, and told what is
being done throughout the country. Hereto—r
fore, it was brought out, there has been a sad
lack of consideration of the importance of pro-
jecting the democratic purposes into the future
and giving thought to the development in na-
ture, technology and social functions.

322 WORLD AT PLAY

Youth and Crime—“In 1935 the largest age
group among those arrested in cities through-
out the country as reported to the United
States Bureau of Investigation was age nine-
teen. In 1936 the Bureau reported that the lead
in arrests had been taken over ,by the twenty—

one year old group and that the age nineteen
group was in fourth place.” Austin H. M MC 07’-
mick, Commissioner of Correction, New York

City. Better Times, February I, 1937.

A Substitute for War—“. . . There’s a huge
network of vendettas spread across these
mountains. Everybody’s involved. I’ve been
talking to the responsible men, trying to per-
suade them to liquidate all the old accounts

and start afresh.”
“They’ll die of boredom.”

“No, I’m teaching them football instead. '

Matches between the villages.” He smiled.
“I’ve had a lot of experience with vendettas,”
he added. “All over the world. They all detest
them, really. Are only too thankful for football

when they’re used to it.”
“Those games! Can’t we ever escape from

them?”

“But they’re the greatest English 'contribu-
.tion to civilization,” said the doctor. “Much
more important than parliamentary govern-
ment, or steam engines, or Newton’s Principia.
More important even than English poetry. Po-
etry can never be a substitute for war and mur—
der. Whereas games can be. A complete and
genuine substitute.”——Excerpt from “Eyeless
in Gaza,” by Aldous Huxley. Used by permis-
sion of Harper and Brothers.

“See Memphis First”——The June issue of the
Memphis, Tennessee, Municipal News is a vaca—
tion number. “A Real Vacation at Home” and
“See Memphis First” are among the slogans used
in telling of the resources available. The pamphlet
suggests that the swimming pools, golf courses,
tennis courts and parks of Memphis are most at-
tractive places for thestay—at-home vacationists.
“Adventure awaits you in the pages of books,”
heads a column describing the resources of the
library and its branches. A brief description of
the attractions of the art gallery and the exhibits
at the city museum, together with suggestions for

sightseeing tours of unusual places, form a part'

of the pamphlet.

   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

Adventures for the Stay-at-Home—Life ne
not be dull or dreary to a New Yorker beca
he has to stay in the city all summer. What to I
things to think about, and things to do and th
about are written up in such a tantalizing fashi
by the Clearing House for Leisure Hours
Grace Church, that the real problem lies not
what to do, but in what to do first. The hull
asks, among other things: Have you eaten y
lunch out on the dock at East 26th Street
watched the boats go by? Have you brows
the second-hand book shops between ,IOth
14th Streets on Fourth Avenue? Do you
that the organ in St. Marks’ Church is the o
in the city? And do you know the little “La
the Dew” who ornaments the garden? Hav
seen an old, dirty, dark tenement house?
you ask the Tenement House Commission
show you one? That’s something to think a
Have you ever tried to draw or paint? Get a
cil and a box of paints at once and see what
can do. Get a teacher, too.

These are but, a few of the many sugges
in the bulletin, which is entitled “Things to I
the Spring and Summer of 1937 in New
City and’ Things to Think About.”

A Guide to a Summer in Chicago—The
cago Recreation Commission is making avai
to members of its local recreation committe
32-page illustrated booklet listing over one h
dred interesting places in the city to visit, incl
ing parks, museums, universities, industrial pla
and suburban points of interest. Hours, char
and free days are noted. Thousands of these bo
lets (published in 1936 by the Commission) h
been distributed by railroads outside of Chic
as a guide to prospective out-of-town visitors, I
it furnishes suggestion for Chicagoans, also,
may have to spend their vacation in the city.

\

In Dearborn, Michigan -— The Dearbo
Michigan, Department of Recreation recently . .
nounced in a nation—wide way, a civil service a. '
amination for Director of Women’s and Gi
Activities. As a result of this test Miss Lorrai‘
Boekeloo of Kalamazoo, Michigan, has been .‘
pointed to the-position, to begin work in the fal
In addition, a full time Director of Boys’ Acti’v
ties has been authorized and Willis Lutz has b
selected as a temporary appointment. The 51 i
mer playground season which has been ei ’
weeks long has been increased to nine weeks 

i
l"

' WORLD AT FLA ‘1' 323
r

 

WORLD’S BEST UUALI
142‘ fouled 2‘ price!

0 WOOD BEAD CRAFT ‘

O PORCELAIN TILE CRAFT

o CUBE BEAD CRAFT ‘~

0 THE lVew Patented INDIAN BEAD LOOM:
E Send for descriptive literature, sample;

cords and instruction bookletsl
 BIEAD COMPANY
- Dept W5 37 W. 37th St.,N.Y.C.

nmmer. A wooded park has been added to the The Swim of a Century—Rather than swim-

‘ecreation facilities in Dearborn through a gift mng a mythical hundred miles, swimmers enter-
rom Henry Ford, and is being prepared for use

y Ford employees.

 
 
 
  
 
 
     
  

 

ing the competitive “Swim of a Century,” spon—
sored by the Lincoln Park Recreation Committee

I A , _ , _ , o f _ and the Northtown Economist of Chicago, will
thmes m Phlladelphlah rhe JUI'V Issue Of swim a hundred years—~a hundred years marked

lay, a bulletin issued by the Bureau of Recrea- Off into units of so man la 8' for so man ears
ion, Department of Public Welfare of Philadel- . . y .p . . y y
of Clncago history. VaI‘IOLIS historical events

hia, tells of interesting activities in Philadelphia. “ _ ”
serve as mile stones along the way and are

treet showers and play streets have been opened , . . .
“ woven 1nto the rules. For 1nstance, 1f sw1mmers

‘hroughout the city,'and by July 15 over 1000 _ _ I
showers and I 70 play streets were in operation. reaCh a Certain pomt or year web as the Great

The play streets are supervised by the Bureau of Fire, the depression or other adverse events in
Recreation, but \VPA leadership is used The Chicago’s history at a spec1fied t1me, they are
Department of Public Welfare was invited to penalized so many laps or “years.” Extra laps or

 
 
  
  
  
  
  

send exhibits to the Exposition in Paris, France. “years” Will be awarded When the SWimmel'
The Bureau of Recreation’s contribution was a reaches Outstanding events in the city’s history.
number of very hne handcraft articles; two cc‘Jn- Other unusual and fun-making rules will prevail.
:ise reports, one in English and one in French, To launch this event properly, the Economist will
telling of the activities conducted by the- Bureau, distribute several hundred tickets entitling the
' ind photographs of the swimming pools and rec— holders to three free swimming lessons at the two

reation centers. pools in which the event will be conducted.

 

EAGLE

RINCER
(Patented)

A Health-Building “Game
for Old and Young

Pitching Horseshoes is muscle-building rec-

reation that appeals to all types of people.
Install a few courts on your grounds, organ-
ize a horseshoe club, schedule a tournament.
Write for free booklets on club organiza-

tion, tournament play. etc.

Diamond Oflicial Shoes and accessories
are the choice of professionals and ama-

teurs alike. It’s economy to purchase
equipment with the longest life.

DIAMOND

CALK ll0llSESll0E C0.
46|0 Grand Avenue Duluth, Minn.
Makers of DIAMOND 0§icial Pitching Shoes

 

Popularizing Badminton—The Public Rec-
reation Commission of Cincinnati, Ohio, in an ef-
fort to interest people in Badminton has put on a
demonstration which was most successful. On the
baseball diamonds of Taft Field, which is lighted
for night use, ten Badminton courts were laid out
and arrangements were made for an exhibition
game between two expert players. The district
champion was engaged as an instructor. The first
night all the c011rts were in use, and every Thurs-
day night since they have been fully utilized. The
plan will be followed of reserving the entire field
every Thursday during the summer and fall. Bad—
minton courts will also be laid out at the individual

play centers and playgrounds.

Playgrounds in Des Moines —- The play-
ground and Recreation Commission of Des
Moines, Iowa, is operating thirty-four play—
grounds this summer. An interesting feature of
the program is a boys’ band of about 300, divided
into groups which play in some playground each
night. Community singing is popular on the play-

ll’ORLI‘ HT E‘Lx'fl'

    
      
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
     
 

l

grounds and the sings are attended by appr
mater 1.000 people. The Recreation C0m

sion’s budget for this year is $23,500,.an incr
of $3,000 over last year.

  

Wheel Night at a Children’s Center—W
Night was one of the events of the series of 1
night activities conducted this summer by
Children’s Community Center of New H
Connecticut. Children were notified to asse
their bicycles, wagons, scooters, pushmobiles
anything else on wheels, and a number of e
were planned. There was first of all a a
parade which passed by judges who deter
which was the most unique, the best deco
one, the best wheel made and entered by a co
ant, and the smallest wheel. Among the e
were tricycle, pushmobile, bicycle, roller ska
kiddie car, and skate scooter races, hoop r0
and tire rolling and wagon pull. Other guest
activities included Mardi gras, stunt night,
night, game night, a pet and hobby show, a
matic contest and minstrel show, and a circus

Home Visits—Last summer as a mean
interpreting the playground program and at
same time enlisting participation, the recre
directors of the Decatur, Illinois, Community ‘
reation Association spent an hour and a half -
day making contacts with families in their ne'
borhoods. If none of the members of a partic
family were registered at the center, the dire '
visited the home and extended an invitation.
if a person suddenly stopped coming to the cen
the director would call at the home and find ‘
why.

A Tot Lot Playground in New York— |
Boys’ Athletic League of New York City in I
opened at West 49th Street a playground
be used exclusively by children under ten ye
of age. The test for admittance is whether a c
can walk through a hole in the high galvani
iron fence without stooping or speezing. The h
cut in rough silhouette form and looking lik I
keyhole, is three feet, six inches high and
than two feet at its widest point. Even par
are not admitted. They may look at their c
dren, however, through some round porthole

the fence. The lot accommodates about
children.

1

l

{l
H

R.

RECREATION—A FACTOR IN HELPING MALADJUSTED INDIVIDUALS 325

Recreation-Fa Factor in Helping

l
l
'l Maladiusted Individuals

l
'1 (Continued from page 280)

even more striking examples. All of you agree
t one must recognize the emotionally malad-
_z-u ed individual for what he is when we find him
 when he comes to us. Further, we would
' bably all agree that the sources of maladjust-
. t are numerous, the forms it takes equally di-
6 se, and the methods of treating it varied. I am
. ing you today to consider with me particularly
aspect of the use of recreation as a factor in
ting maladjustment that focuses attention on
6! personal, intimate creative experience which
ry individual wants to enjoy but which so few
alize. 1 must remind you again that I thoroughly
preciate the value of all kinds of recreational
tivity as we ordinarily see it developed in com-
unities. The baseball game, the scout club, the
cup sports where competition is modified, all of
se are valuable, even indispensable aids in the
. 1ding of wholesome personalities. But espe-
. y in the. consideration of the treatment of
tional maladjustment through recreation I
r ngly urge you to recognize the dynamic forces
ch lie concealed in each of us—forces yearn-
;- for expression through personal experiences
f 'creativeness whether they be through the liner
hrdinations of the hands, in painting, modelling
, )collecting; or the larger coordinations of the
; y in dance, drama or outdoor work.
1 c
“i The Park Conservation Program
' (Continued from page 284)

n the Atlantic shore. We have lost that art.
ivilization has softened us, made us clumsy
nd inept at such simple tasks as chopping a
lock of wood, cooking a meal over an open
rt, providing ourselves a shelter with all the
' aterials nature has so lavishly supplied us.

a'ture has become a profound mystery to us,
nd consequently‘we have lost the pleasure of
latching her at her masterly task of creation,
ven when we go out where she is at work.
'f camping is to again become a way of life. as

should, we’ve got to start in the kindergar-
,3n and learn our ABC’s.

Organized camping, then, becomes the school
thereby we learn to camp, so that, when we
ave acquired enough of the rudiments, we
lay go forth on our own to explore the high—

‘gvlany of you in the recreation field have similar

l

-

l

_W

'l

 

. . . That's the first rule of sportsmanship . . . of all
play; good clean fun, clean air, and a good clean place
to play.

But air laden with dust is not clean air, and an athletic
field, a tennis court, or a baseball diamond that is thick
with dust stirred up by the wind or running feet is not a
clean place to play.

Solvay Calcium Chloride binds the ‘surfaces of play
areas through its compacting action. It does away with
dust entirely—reduces the danger of infection through
dust—cuts sunglare to a minimum—prevents surface
cracking and weed growth—gives a clean place to play,
all at a cost so low that it hardly affects the budget.

Solvay Calcium Chloride, for many years, has been
used by leading schools, universities, athletic associa-
tions. It is a clean, odorless and harmless material that i
is easy to apply—by hand or spreader—just as it comes
from the package (in small White flakes). It does not
affect tennis balls, tennis shoes or other athletic equip-
ment. Complete information will be sent upon request.

SOLVAY SALES CORPORATION

Alkalier and Chemical Product: Manufactured by
Tbe Solvay Process Compare y

40 RECTOR STREET NEW YORK

0 LVAY

YRADE MARK REG. U, S. PAT. OFF.

 

S

Calcium Chloride

I

326 IVHERE THEY SAIL THEIR OWN!

Swimming. Pool Data and

Reference Annual
(1937 Edition. Vol. V)

$3.00 Prepaid

0 I92 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for Jrhose interested
in swimming pools in any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
404 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders. etc..

payable to Earl K. Collins

 

ways as automobile campers, to cruise the wil-
derness in a canoe, to ride horseback through
mountain fastnesses, or to wander far-Hung trails
with packs on our backs.

Organized camping also teaches one the art
of living as a member of society. The iirst
society grew up around a camp tire. There the
child learned to recognize parental authority,
to follow a wiser leadership until he was able
to lead of his own accord; there he learned the
habit of give and take which is fundamental in
social life; there he learned to orient himself
in such a way as to protect his own rights, and
at the same time to respect the rights) of others.
It was upon these traits, acquired around the
first camp fire, that society has erected its
super-structure, and it is upon these traits that
its future must continue to rest. As we ac-
quired these essential social traits around the
primitive camp tire, so we may, in this era of
new leisure, preserve them around the modern
camp fire.

These are only a few of the values to be de-
rived from organized camping, but I believe
you will agree with me that they are important
enough to grant this activity place in our park
conservation program.

Where They Sail Their Own!

(Continued from page 285)

of the clubs’ twelve-year-old commodore. I -.
girl and two men also placed with their craft.
Not race winning, however, but the good spo
manship shown by contenders was the eve
characteristic which most pleased recreation 1e
ers and which repeatedly elicited commenda
from a mile of onlooking parents and frie
along the banks of the marine stadium. For
spite skilled craftsmanship, some superior mo 
were bound to meet with several varieties of’ u
hard luck! With each trim little craft sailing {
I
I

 
  
   
  
  
  
        
 

nobody on board, its skipper following as bes ;
could along one shore and his mate, across a v
foot width of waterway, running along the o ,
shore, in'company with other hurrying skip
and mates, much depended on chance. One
craft, for example, after a fair start with si
yachts from the pontoon, was immediately fan
by a mischievous gust of wind to the far 8
where its skipper——or perhaps it was his ma
waded out to retrieve it in the second befor
bumped, made delicate adjustments on sheets
rudder control and sent it on its way again.

Again, with many boats in the sailing, a
collisions were inevitable. And one smart
was turned about in a tangle'with a visiting
and headed back to the pontoon. There skippe .
mate sped to start it out once more gamely! '3
model yacht sailor is a busy person in a race! 

The young boatmen come to know much of ‘
natural forces with which they must contend
good grace. They acquire knowledge of the g 
power of wind and of water, whether it be rel I
less or satisfying. They learn of tides and
rents, of depths and heights, of dead-water,
distances. .

And Long Beach‘Model Yacht Club boys 1
to take what comes sportingly, without compl
and without quitting.

V

i
II
I
l
.i

A Summer Recreation Program l.

in Action '-
(Continued from page 286)

night every week is set aside for adults, wk.
private swimming parties may frolic on the 0th
nights. Mixed swimming is carried on all 6
Saturdays, and several water carnivals are p1
ned for the late summer. ' ;
Badminton has proved to be most popula
Palo Alto, as carried on under the night schg

\ ;

‘  l,

K

    
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
   

(1 this summer the activity is under the j urisdic-
on of the Municipal Recreation Department. In
' e boys’ gymnasium of the high school building
‘ der men and women, young people, and boys
d girls, alike actively participate in the sport.

Community Dances Popular
Community sings and dances in the older dis-
- ict of Palo Alto have been very successful. In
. dition to the community dances, which are held
w the auditorium of one of the junior high
- hools, the recreation department sponsors bi-
: eekly Saturday night dances called the “33
' ries” because the admission charge is thirty-
. ree cents. For these dances excellent profes-
r onal orchestras from the Stanford University
ampus, San Francisco, or San Jose, provide
music. The activity is well supervised and is self—
supporting.

A rather meaty program of major productions
is scheduled by the Palo Alto Community Play—
ers for the summer months. “Journey’s End,” by
R. C. Sherriff, is the July play, to be followed in

August by George Bernard Shaw’s “Pygmalion,”
191d “W interset,” by Maxwell Anderson, early in

eptember.
l Reading in the Open Air
A ' (Continued from page 288)
ere—memorials to the famous Spanish authors.
he poet Becquer’s monument is a case of his
l oks in a Seville park where he used to walk.
‘ another park in Seville, the plays of the broth—
5 Alvarez-Quinteros may be selected from an
3‘ en bookcase under the trees. The most famous
 if the Spanish open-air libraries is the Cervantes
I} the Pases de las Delicias in Seville. In the pic-
l’tllre tiles of a circular seat and a lovely fountain.
you have the story of Don Quixote. Two book-
:Eses. one guarded' by a figure of Sancho Panzo

  

I d the other by Don Quixote, hold various edi-
.. us of their ever-amusing story. A replica of the
Cervantes library, the gift of Spain to the Mexi-
can people, stands under century-old trees in
Mexico City’s Chapultapec Park.

The first park library in the United States was,~
inevitably, in Boston. It was administered, not by
the Boston Public Library but by appointees of
the Mayor. It seemed successful but it was not
reopened after the first year. While the Bryant
I Park Library is perhaps the most publicized and

the most used, outdoor reading rooms have been
' opened in many other American communities. The
. little library in Hyannis on Cape Cod was one of

‘
f
‘

   
 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 327

Magazines and Pamphlets

l Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

    

 

MAGAZINES

The Red Cross Courier, July 1937

“Oi Exercises, Swimming’s Best,” by Carroll. L.
Bryant

Parents’ Magazine, July 1937
Play at Home and Like It, by Lynn Ray Howard
Cooking Outdoors, by Lettie Gay
Family Fun, by Elizabeth King

National Parent-Teacher, July 1937
Recipe for a Boy’s Summer, by Bertha Knapton

Business Digest, July 1937
How Famous Men Spend Leisure Hours

Leisure, July 1937

Cycling Becomes the Vogue Again, by Harry
Wilkin Perry

Camp in Comfort and Safety, by Catherine Hammett
Time on Your Hands, by Elise Whitten

Hikers’ Paradise, by Foster Dairdoff

Appropriate Camp Sports, by Harlan G. Metcalf

Parks and Recreation, July 1937
Planning for City Parks, by Karl B. Lohmann

Spirit of Adventure in Playground Supervision,
by H. E. Varga .

Four Bathing Beaches in New Jersey Division of.
Interstate Park

PAMPHLETS

Des Moines, Iowa, Playground and Recreation Commis-
sion Annual Report, 1936-1937

Bells and Bellringing, by Mrs. Satis N. Coleman, Na-
tional Tuberculosis Association.

First Annual Report of the Board of Recreation Com-
missioners of Linden, N. 1., 1936

Playground Director’s Game Kit
Department of Public Recreation, Sioux City, Iowa

Playground Director’s Sta]?t Guide
Department of Public Recreation, Sioux City, Iowa

Community Recreation—A Tentative Manual

Department of Education of the State of Minnesota,
St. Paul

Program for State Ownership of Park and Forest Land
in New Jersey

Board of Conservation and Development,
Trenton, N. J.

t’

17th Annual Report of the Superintendent of Public
Recreation of the City of Reading, Pennsylvania, 1936

Summer Bulletin of the Department of Recreation,
Detroit, Michigan

328 lVHAT CHILDREN TALK ABOUT

What Children Talk About

ASTUDY MADE of children’s conversation in
grades three to seven in twenty-four schools,
both rural. and urban, in various parts of the
country, revealed that the topics (discussed by the
children when left to themselves) in order of their
frequency are: (1) games and sports, (2) per-
sonal experiences, (3) trips, (4) pets and their
tricks, (5) family and friends, (6) accidents,
(7) school, (8) parties, (9) accomplishments
(boasting), (10) shows and programs, (11) wild
life, (12) thoughts and dreams, (13) current
events (history and politics), (14) nature, (15)
books (outside reading), (16) rides by vehicle,
(17) holidays, (18) helping others, (19) toys,
(20) rides on animals, (21) work as an occupa-
tion, (22) cooking and sewing, (23) riddles, jokes
and stories. Some of the topics overlap to some
degree. “Personal experiences” are those not
grouped in other classes. .

The study is based on the assumption that chil—
dren, when left to themselves, will talk about the
things which interest them most. The teachers in
the schools listed the topics talked about at recess
and other periods when the children were free,
for a period of six weeks. The results of the study
showed that interests of children in these grades
are relatively stable and that children tend to talk
less about their family and friends as they go
through the grades and more about school and
current events. Personal experiences, play and
school rank high in all grades. The study was not
entirely scientific, as the author admits, but it
presents conclusions and issues which invite fur-
ther investigation. Note: This study was reported
in the Elementary School Journal, February 1937,
and is entitled “Children’s Preferences for Con—
versational Topics.” It was digested in the April
1937 Loyola Educational Digest.

the first to extend its reading space out of doors.
The 'beautiful library in Lake Forest, Illinois, has
a perfectly appointed reading court. In Suffern,
New York, boxes of books are taken from the
library to the edge of a lake where they are used
by an eager reading public. The Los Angeles Pub—
lic Library has opened two park libraries one of
which, to the librarians surprise, has been pa~
tronized largely by guests in nearby hotels. For
more than four months each summer, residents of
Evanston, Illinois, are invited to take pleasant
book cruises on the “Upper Deck,” a reading room

  
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
  
  

on the roof of the library. In Couchwood, We
ster Parish, Louisiana, the little library has an ou
door reading room that can be used most of t
year. In Glenco, Illinois, and in New Rochel
New York, beach libraries make reading part I
the play time of both adults and children.
Outdoor libraries, friendly and easy of acc
combine happily the joy of reading and the joy
being in the open air. They are welcome oases
the people to whom reading is a natural part
everyday living. They also bring together he
and members of the community who might

otherwise read.

Some Contributions of Rural Dram

to the Development of Rural Life

(Continued from page 290)

of team work will soon reflect itself in the kind
acting done, it’s true. But play production requi
that everyone work together—the actors, the st
crew, the make-up committee, the ushers,
business management, the director, and the c
tume staff. Many takingpart in a play h
learned the true meaning of cooperation for i
first time. Two people can’t get along. They .
put in a play together. They find the other is
so bad after all and new friends are made. Th
is a faction in the community. Members of e
faction are cast in a play. They forget their (:1
ferences in their eagerness to produce a good pl
The faction disappears. Such incidents can
multiplied by the score by any of you. Play p
duction can be a good way to develop wholeso
group life.

Experiences of individuals in learning to wo
together through play production can also be I
lated by members of groups. It is said the D
County Federation of Rural Clubs grew out
the drama tournaments. If inter-group coope
tion is successful in drama tournaments, w
can’t it be successful in other ways? If true 1
operation requires this then we have great n
for such lessons. Individuals may find it hard
work with others—how much more difficult
groups to work together—yet tournaments ha .
required in their very nature inter-group coope .
tion. Not that we are going to stimulate grou
to put on plays in tournaments in order that th i
may learn the cooperative way—for play prod 5
tion is an art in its own right—but that we
recognize its value in education for cooperati ’
Thus it may help us and stand us in good st " I
in case we find we need a “middle way.”

    
 
 

I

_;

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
    
 

  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 

A keener appreciation of the place of rural
‘ ama tournaments and festivals and a new inter-
retation of underlying basic rural life philoso-
hies through the country theater can be had. The
anes have developed a kind of rural life philoso-
hy which expresses itself best through the co-
perative movement. But its roots are laid in a
‘ chness of literature, a system of education, and
history of culture which projects itself into the
operative movement and forms the very mar-
w of it. Our people in the country need more
f that kind of philosophy, and if the country
t eater can help give it expression and growth,
ur farm people will the more easily find their
Way out of economic stress and social stagnation.

Table Shuffleboard

(Continued from page 292)

. Scoring areas in each diagram of a court shall
e one ten (10), two eights (8), two sevens (7),
nd one ten-off (-10).

Live discs anywhere in the ten-off area score
iinus ten (-10) for each, except when they
ouch a border line. The separation line here is
ot counted as a line in scoring.

All points must be scored.

In case of a tie resulting from both sides hav-
i g reached game-point or over, two complete
r unds shall be played, the score of which is
ded to the first score. The side having the high-
t score is the “winner, provided the score is
me-point or over; otherwise play shall continue
til either one side or the other has reached
‘ me-point or over.

i In case the game is won by the side, or player,
ltIiving last shot, before the last shot is delivered
the player must shoot the disc down the court in
an attempt to reach the dead line.

A To play the game of shuffleboard is sufiicient to
.feate a lasting enthusiasm, whether you are a
tibvice or an old—timer in sports. It is a game you
qan recommend to your friends without reserva-
tifn. In addition to the fun of learning to play

 
     
   

t is new game of table. shuffleboard, the amateur

i crafts may gain satisfaction from the adven-
ture of making his own game. I

A Learn-to-Swim Program

for Children

(Continued from page 295)
The Certificate

One added incentive was still needed to hold the

TABLE SHUFFLEBOARD

329

Why Not A R/oyt/am chd
on Your Playground?

 

 

0 There is now available a booklet,
“Starting and Developing a.
Rhythm Band,” by A. D. Zanzig
which will give you just the in-
formation you need in organizing
“Kinder Simfonies” on your

playground.

Send for your copy
It costs only 15 cents

V

National

Recreation Association

3|5 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

children’s enthusiasm until. the finishing touch
could be added to their efforts. With this idea in
mind, the swim certificate was developed. The
certificate was made to fill the multiple duty of a
report card, record of progress and diploma. The
certificate reads: “The Santa Barbara Recreation
Commission awards this certificate to . . . . . . . . . .
for successful participation in Learn to Swim
Program.” Blank lines were provided for the
signatures of a city representative, a member of
the Recreation Commission,‘ and the instructor.
These’ signatures were in the lower right hand
corner. The lower left hand corner had printed:
Group I, with a blank space for the date the test
was passed. Next, Group II, A, B and C, with
the ensuing blank space after each letter for the
date that would signify that the test was passed,
and so on throughout Group IV. To prevent the
pupil who had only one date on his certificate
from representing himself as a swimmer, the en-
tire achievement test was printed on the back.
The completed certificate, with three dates affixed
automatically became a diploma, and 'as an added
attraction a small gold star was applied after the
third date. To say that these certificates were en-
thusiastically received is stating it mildly. They

.530 MARK A. MCCLOSKEY

Mark A. McCloskey

 

Mark A. McCloskey, who has been serving as
administrator of the National Youth Administra-
tion in New York City, has been appointed di-
rector of the Bureau of Recreational and Com-
munity Activities of the New York City school
system. In this position he will have’ charge of
the community centers in the school buildings
and of the summer vacation playgrounds main-
tained by the Board of Education.

were signed by E. O. Hanson, Mayor of the city
of Santa Barbara, C. C. Christianson, Director
of Recreation, and by the teacher.

Every Friday was a day for rare excitement
for the children; it was examination day. Every
pupil might take as many tests as he could. No
grades were given. They could either pass the
tests or could not. Out of the two hundred stu-
dents examined, only eight proved to be failures.
The presentations were great fun. Mayor Han-
son, accompanied by Director Christianson and
Mr. Walter Noble, Chairman, for the Recreation
Commission, talked to the children, and Mayor
Hanson then handed out the diplomas. There were
two presentations, a mid-season one, on August
fourteenth, and the final on September tenth.
Having only two presentations had its disadvan-

     
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
  
  
  
     
     
 
  

tages. Many pupils had only two weeks to spen
Again, numbers of pupils were from out of to

There were visitors from Oakland, Los Angele
Santa Maria, and Goleta. The final enrollme
was exactly three hundred and fifteen. Over 0
hundred and seventy-five certificates were awarde

Fortunately, during the season’s course, eve
pupil did not report every day. In fact they we
asked to pick out three days of the week and r
port onthose certain days. Even with 'this spl
up, the daily classes ran an approximate avera
of twenty-eight for Kindergarten, thirty-one f
Beginners, thirty-three for Advanced Beginne
and forty-two for Swimmers. It is to be regrett
that the exact count can not be given, but a sn i
count of each class peak load attendance w
taken. ' Many interesting statistics were 1
through failure to keep each individual’s dai
attendance and progress record.

A number of happy by-products are to be note
One was the improvement in health. The childr
who enrolled in the class and attended regula
showed an increase in appetite, weight, muscul
development, the ability to sleep, and vitality. ‘
of this influenced greatly their dispositions. Pe
haps the most important by-product of the pr
gram was the effect it had upon the children su
fering from inferiority complexes and timidit
Many of those who had previously been out-do
in the fields of strength and speed by their pla
mates, found that in swimming they were eq
to their fellows, and in some instances outsho
them. This result alone would have made t
program worth while.

Model Aircraft Activity

(Continued from page 296)

Activity in model aircraft building and Hyi .
is proving to be a stepping stone for some to
career in aviation. At least five of the boys a
seriously planning aeronautical engineering c
master mechanics as their life work. One of t 1
members is at present enrolled in an aviati
school in Newark, New Jersey.

Recreation for Handicapped Childr,

( Continued from page 298) ,

the trying spirit manifested by crippled childr ,
is super-normal. . .' ’
Cardiac children in hospitals, although not 

l
r
1‘ ii
\
Ii l
l.

l.

l

‘ I

-
'r-

' Tribute by the Community Councils

5' n the July issue of RECREATION there appeared

. nder the title, “A Tribute to Charles Hayden,”
I address by  Willard Hayden given on the
0 - sion of the unveiling of a tablet in honor of
3, Earles Hayden. Mention should have been made
ill the fact that the tablet was a tribute to the
'mory of Mr. Hayden by the Community Coun~

I of the City of New York, of which Frank
¢er Beal is the executive secretary. For ten
rs Mr. Hayden was a member of the Recre-

Committee of the Community Councils.

wed to engage in strenuous games, play check-
5, ping pong and engage in other light forms of
» ercise that keep the mind and faculties keenly
ccupied. The activities selected for these chil—-
ren depend, of course, upon their individual
ndition.

Diabetic children can take part in all forms of

Creation and‘ actual sports competition provided
ey do not neglect their insulin treatments and
rescribed diets.

I The notion that a handicapped child should be
ourteously waved aside when games are proposed
. happily been discarded, and many new kinds
f games are being devised especially for the dif-
- ent groups who have met with some physical
» sfortune.

 Gypsy Story-teller Casts Her Spell
‘ (Continued from page 300)

5 rec thousand children. A great many story-
lay performances were given over the radio and
t various community entertainments. The year
.ras climaxed by a “Story-Play Picnic” at the
'ecreation Department’s beautiful picnic ground,
igmund Stern Grove; all of the playground
roups joined in this festive holiday, and were
ntertained by a program of child dancing and

0y symphony music and of course, by more

if Mrs. McGuire’s stories, of which they seem,

I'iever to get enough.

l Most of all, story—telling means a lot of fun for
he little listeners. But there are other advantages
‘0°the story program aside from the entertain—
nent factors. The story classics of the world are
art of every education; references to Alice in
’Vonderland, to Grimm’s Fairy Tales, AeSOp’s
iables and many others are common in everything
ve read. Yet reading for pleasure alone is a field

A GYPSY STORY-TELLER CASTS HER SPELL 331

often neglected in present-day education, and if

this phase of cultural learning is not to be entirely
omitted it must be supplied in the leisure time of

the child. Then, too, the 01d folk and fairy tales
are built around solid philosophic truths with

-which all children should be familiar. In this day

of corroding beliefs and conflicting ideals, it is
not always easy to tell children what is and what
is not right and good to do; yet if we instill in
them during their early years standards of clean-
ness and fineness—of which the heroes and hero—
ines of the tales of old are no insignificant ex—
amples—-we can trust them to make decisions for
themselves when it becomes necessary.

And certainly not the least advantage—what a
relief it is to parents and playground directors to
know that at least one afternoon a week in the
busy,,noisy city, the children will be content to
cease their nervous activity, and just be quiet and
listen! m

On the whole, the Recreation Department be—
lieves its summer story program to be one of the
most interesting and worthwhile innovations of
some time. It sincerely hopes that San Francisco
children will continue to take an interest in the
stories of Polly McGuire—*who has remained the
“gypsy” to the children despite the changes in
costume; and that communities everywhere will
help in this attempt to revive interest in that oldest
of all arts-—the art of story—telling. '

Seventy Miles by Foot in the Sierra
(Continued from page 307 )
Then the End; of the Trail

A descent of some three thousand feet is the
schedule for the seventh day. Around Lake Tenaya,
down to Snow Creek, winds the fascinating trail.

'It is amazing how much more one sees, hiking

like this, than one would either on horseback or
in automobile. How could you stoop to examine
the beautiful fringed gentian from a horse’s back? \
From an automobile you would not even see the
flower, much less examine it. You may see ex- _
tensively by horse or car, but to see intensively
you must use only your own two feet.

At the start of the Tenaya zigzags, the last lap
on the journey home, someone cries, “Let’s count
the zigzags!” and the problem arises whether to
count zigs and zags separately or the two together
as one zigzag. It is decided to count them as one.
As the group winds down the trail into the fa-
miliar zone of life left behind a week before, the

332 HAVE YOU AN ABANDONED FIRE HOUSE?

Have You an' Abandoned

Fire House?

[TH THE ever increasing demand for greater
Wactivity in the field of drama, it is essential
for recreation departments conducting this
activity to have a place in which to construct
and store the rapidly accumulating equipment
for the drama program.

Sacramento, California, according to J.” B.
Maloney, Superintendent of Recreation, real—
ized its need for a worksh0p and storeroom just
as the fire department of the city was about to
change its location to provide greater fire pro-
tection for the growing residential sections.
The abandonment ofthe old fire house of
sturdy construction, through action taken by
the City Manager, resulted in the acquisition
by the Recreation Department of a drama
workshop. N 0 change in the physical structure
of the building was necessary, and only a few
minor additions to the interior had to be made.
The large room which housed the fire equip—
ment is now used as a carpenter shop and
storeroom for scenery and electrical equip-
ment. The room previously used as the sleep-
ing quarters for the firemen has been trans—
formed into a costume shop, the many lockers
already built in serving as cupboards for the
2,000 costumes which have been accumulated.

The kitchen and bathroom, with gas and
water, were placed at the disposal. of the artist
who prepares paints, papier-maché, dopes, clay
and plaster molds, and other equipment of this
type as it is needed. In the larger of the two
storerooms an office was established for the
supervisor of dramatics; the smaller was used
as a stock room for materials. The large recre—
ation room was made over into a “green room”
where small groups meet for discussion, read-
ings and social activities.

Although the building is only one story,
there is sufficient space between the ceiling and

the roof to store papier—maché heads and other
small equipment. ‘

Situated on a large, attractively landscaped
corner lot in a residential section of the city,
the workshop is as attractive as it is useful and
supplies Sacramento with a drama center
which serves a definite purpose—and serves
that purpose exceedingly well!

   
  
   
  
       
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
  
   
    
 
   
 
 

air gets warmer, and they realize acutely that I
have really left the High Sierra. How many
zags were there? Everyone’s result is diffe
but it is generally agreed that there were 5

thing over a hundred.
The group that arrives finally at Mirror

on the floor of Yosemite valley is a brox
stronger-muscled, though a dirtier and
ragged company, than that which left Happy
a week before. Some have chapped lips and
ing noses, some blistered feet; but these coun
little, in the realization that they have, on their
feet, traveled through seventy miles or mor
some of the most superb scenery in the world
in traveling, have lived intimately not only
others of their kind but with Nature. No
Who has spent a week in such communion
the outaof-doors will ever forget.

Recreation Aitér Fifty
( C (ii/{tinned from page 308)
ganized the Charaka Club nearly forty years
for the purpose of presenting and developing
traprofessional interests. We all felt that t
was need of stimulating one another so a
avoid anything like a humdrum existence.

There is nothing worse than to go on li
without special duties to perform, and to be \
ing for the end to come. Keep your mind ac
keep your brain going; and for the brain a ch
of activity, of thoughts, is the best form of
version and of mental recreation.

I must, at this point, introduce a personal
because I believe that my own preparation for
vicissitudes of age has been helpful to me,
may be helpful to others. I am rapidly appro
ing the four score period. When I was just ‘
years of age I wanted to test my ability to acq
new scientific methods and to determine whe
or/not I was on the down-hill grade. The
sermann test had been made known to the pu
I spent six weeks of my summer holiday in V
sermann’s laboratory in Berlin, became thorou
familiar with the method, was'able to make g
use of it, and convinced myself that I was a.
old, and still able to cope with the youngsters
stopped thinking of age for the next ten years

Similar thoughts occurred at sixty. At si
six, I was retired from hospital work, but I fo Q
other things to engage my attention, to hold
interest, to keep me thinking; and, as I told W
of the hospital trustees not long ago: “You ‘3‘
tired me on account of age (and very prope

i
l.

"I

.
i
I
I
|
l
L
I
I

f .

O

l

   
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
 

y years ago. I have had the most active and
resting years'since then.”

nd, when only a few years ago, I laid down
ry important offlce, I made up my mind that
.' t was not to be the last and before my term
ended, I prepared for another engrossing
. A few others have been" added since.~

Iy motto is, “keep on doing; keep on plan-
g.” It will contribute to your own' happiness
will make for the good of others.

—.

he Problem of Leisure in Relation

to Correctional Institutions
(Continued from page 311)
he conditions surrounding the life of a pa-

oed or discharged individual are hard, tend to
i'scouragement and new derelictions and yet
uch is expected of him. \Vhy not prepare him
vhile he is in the institution, with inner resources,
nterests and skills, which may help to save‘the
ay and save him to purposeful citizenship?

 

Public Recreation in Resort Cities

(Continued from page 312)
What About the Home Folks?

is important for resort cities to make ade-
e provision for facilities for tourists; it is
: . . important for the city to supply for its perma-
a t residents the facilities and activities which
'e a community a good place in which to live.

recent tour of a score of resort citiesshowed
i .. d developments in caring for the recreational
s of visitors but serious neglect pf the home
| s, more especially the children and young
a ple. One city visited which serves tourists un-
ally well had virtually no public recreation
.a vice for those of school age. Near one of the
i _ ’s downtown recreation centers with very un-
- a1 facilities was a school with scarcely any
. 1 yground space and with no leadership of the
ager program offered. Another city with live
I, ' nicipal golf courses had no neighborhood play-
‘ unds under leadership. Still another city with
3 ocean front. civic center costing a million and
I alf had only three night lighted baseball
édl onds.

he importance of tourist recreation is such
Ethat it ought not to be conducted as part of the
ac 'vities of a city department concerned with
we fare or similar services, but it should be the
Concern of a separate major department which

will give it prestige and assure it of efficient
l administration.

 
    
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
  

u.

I
D

 

THE NATIONAL FEDERATION OP SETTLEMENTS MEETS 333

The National Federation of
Settlements Meets

'1‘ THE National Federation of Settlements cona
ference held on the campus of Indiana Uni-
versity in Bloomington, Indiana, in May, settle-
ment workers throughout the country were able
to exchange experiences and discuss common in-
terests. The focus of the conference was on ways
of meeting day by day problems which press in on
industrial neighborhoods. General meetings on
labor—management relationships, on a report of a
settlement studyof the effect of health insurance
on working pe0p1e in England, and on settlements
and social action gave expression to some of the
broad interests of the group. Government work
relief programs were shown to have made new
opportunities in art, music and recreation directly
available to settlement neighbors.

Discussion of new methods of education for
better living centered around the cooperatives as
they were being developed in cities and in rural
life. As a constructively educational economic de-
veIOpment, cooperatives are scarcely excelled. In
Indiana and Ohio strong farmers’ c00peratives
have grown up. since 1920 and are increasingly
important as a means of strengthening community
life. The technique for supplementing the pro—
ducers’ organizations toward this end has been
reinforced through recreation. Miss Neva Boyd
of Northwestern University who, with Mrs.
Charlotte Chorpenning, also of Northwestern, has
for two years conducted recreation training
courses in c00peratives, described the development
and progress made in these communities and the
increasing significance of the recreation groups.
So enthusiastic and interested did the folk danc—
ing and dramatics groups become, that they met
in the bare villageschoolrooms even on the hottest
nights for dances and rehearsals. By basing the
programs upon the interests of the people, keep-
ing the content at a high level, and allowing lead-
ership—to evolve slowly, the groups have remained
spontaneous and democratic, and are deve10ping
strength.

The bulk of the conference attendance was
made up of staff workers directly responsible for
the actual {carrying out of group work programs.
These leaders were concerned chiefly with help-
ing their members to want to understand what is
happening in the economic world today and with

334 JOURNALISM IN MINIATURE

finding out methods of breaking the apathy of
young people who have not found education to
their liking, nor jobs when they have left school.
Need for more adequate vocational guidance and
placement was constantly expressed. A factor in
the recreational life of some cities was the cellar,
or independent club, formed by young men who
have outgrown their families and cannot afford to
marry. In their own club they dance and meet in—
formally without chaperonage of either family or
agency. Many settlements work with the inde-i
pendent clubs, offering use of gymnasium and
meeting halls, and help to enrich the program and
influence standards.

Two evenings, after hours, were devoted to
folk dancing, one under the leadership of Miss
Boyd and another under the direction of Miss
Janet McCrindell of Liverpool, England, one of
the founders of the English Folk Dance Society.
Miss McCrindell made the point that American
usage was tending to corrupt the style and form
of English country dancing here. Americans are
apt to romp, and they do not pay enough atten-
tion to the phrasing of the music and the preci-
sion and decorum with which the patterns are

worked out.

NOTE: We are indebted to Margaret Day, Henry
Street Settlement, New York City, for this interesting

report.

You Asked for It!

(Continued from page 313)
of Chicago Press.) This book contains a chapter

on attacking the problem which discusses the im-
portance of proper recreation opportunities. We
believe you would find this chapter particularly
suggestive.

These references may not give you the specific
answer to your problem but they will help you
understand the situation with which you are try—
ing to deal. There is an excellent booklet entitled,
Settlement Boys W'ork, published by the National
Federation of Settlements, New York City,
which gives some very practical suggestions on
leadership of boys’ activities. Although it is in-
tended for leaders of groups already organized,
we feel sure you would find helpful the sugges-
tions as to how to discover interests, to maintain
enthusiasm for an activity, and to develop pro-
grams which have some continuity.

  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 

Journalism in Miniature
(Continued from page 314)

and small, to enjoy the use of the playgro
This new venture not only resulted in an
creased attendance but had a stimulating effec
all our playground activities. Everyone like
have his accomplishments brought to the a
tion of others, especially his fellow playm
This pride in achievement, if not encourage
yond reasonable bounds, stimulates initiative ‘
ambition. A 'keener interest in all playgr I
events was evident. The week following the
lication of the First Winchester News, our .
won the first honor flag for having the best
round playground in Memphis during that

The Publication Grows

Beginning as a playground bulletin, by the
of the summer, our paper was rapidly beco r
a community publication, with interesting bit
news not only about park affairs, but also ‘
neighborhood happenings and civic events. :
ple who formerly knew very ,little about p
grounds were astounded when they read of
program offered to both children and ad
Those who were unable to attend and partici

looked forward to reading of the weekly do -.
of their neighbors.

An unforeseen benefit of the paper was reali -i
after a few weeks of publication. This was 
opportunity offered to children with writing a :
ity. Of course each child had but a little wri ,‘
to do. Nevertheless that small bit called for or .
nality and concise expression. .

This summer, if our plans materialize, we
print a larger paper, with several columns dev
to poems and stories written by the children.
bit out of the path of playground recreation
think not. We offer sewing and handicraft to
child with domestic interests, painting and 5
modeling for the artistic, theatricals and danc =
for the dramatic, singing for the musical, sp
for the athletic. Why not miniature journah
for those with literary talent?

 
     
  
 

l
l

You will find a playground paper a new .
effective means of advertising your recreation
tivities—a means that can be realized with
help of your local civic club, PTA, or any ot i
neighborhood organization that is interested in -.
welfare of the community. 

§

     

l
l

l

’t

 
      

he Arts Workshop of Rural America

‘. Marjorie Patten. Columbia University Press, New
" York. $1.50.
HIS STUDY of the rural arts program of the Agricul—

tural Extension Service is the story Of the “rise of
host of homespun leisure-time activities among farm
ople during the troubled years since the World War.”
is a fascinating story of typical deve10pments in eight
ates. It tells of what is being done in drama, music,
ts and crafts, folk arts and hobbies. It revives one’s
ith in the possibility of “building the kind of rural
merica the farmers of the future will be glad to call

reir own.” '
Softball Guide—Official Playing Rules

l937

Spalding’s Athletic Library. American Sports Publishing
Company, New York City. $.25.

THE OFFICIAL RULES of softball as apprOVed by the Joint '-

Rules Committee of which Arthur T. ,Noren, Super-
'intendent of Recreation, Elizabeth, New Jersey, is Secre-
tary-Treasurer, are now available. The growing interest
ih this game and the wide pOpularity which it is gaining

11 make it desirable for all recreation workers to be

iliar with the rules and with the latest information
ailable about the game.

r Some Inexpensive Party and

III Game Books

HROUGH THE Washington Information Bureau, 1013
JThirteenth Street, Washington, D. C., may be secured
number of practical booklets on parties and games.
These include The Book of Games, Children’s Parties,
d The Pariy Book, by Patricia Dubber. There is 2.150
booklet on Popular Card Games, by William W. Rod-
gers and one On Modern Contract Bridge, by Harriet
V. Heald. The price of each Of these booklets is 10 cents.

Creative Group Education

By S. R. Slavson. Association Press, New York. $2.50.
WHAT CONSTITUTES an allparound education? What are

the educational influences, formal and informal,
which go into personality development? These questions
are discussed in this volume, but as the author himself
points out in his introduction, the book’s major value is
in its effort to deal in a practical way with the practical
problems that confront the leader and the teacher in the
performance of his daily work. With this in mind, Mr.
Slavson has devoted the greater part of his book to such
subjects as art, music-and the dance, creative dramatics
and play writing, nature study and science, the gymnasium

‘and the competitive spirit, and the educative value of
parties.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Leaders of Young People

The Girls’ Friendly Society, 386 Fourth Avenue, New
York. $.50.

LEADERS OF groups of youth are constantly looking for

practical guides which will help them in making their
leadership more effective. This booklet, dealing with the
principle involved is all leadership, has been prepared
especially for use in the organizations asSociated with the
Episcopal Church. It should, however, be helpful to lead-
ers working with all youth organizations whether boys,
girls or mixed groups.

Kit Ill-C. Parties and Programs

Edited by Lynn and Katherine Rohrbough. Cooperative
Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

ANOTHER BOOKLET of helpful hints for social recreation

has been issued by the Cooperative Recreation Ser-
vice. Suggestions are offered for an envelope party, a
reception mixer, a one way street party, and many other
interesting events. This issue of the Kit also contains a
cross index of Kits 29 to 40, which gives an alphabetical
classification Of the games, puzzles, rhythms, songs and
dances, programs and stunts which have appeared in
these issues.

The Board Member

By New Haven Council of Social Agencies. Yale Uni-
versity Press. $1.00.

HE DISCUSSION GROUP on Problems of Board Mem-

Ibers held during'the Congress at Atlantic City was
one of the most important at the Congress. In the course
of the discussion this book was referred to as a most
valuable help for executives related to public or private
organizations. This little volume of forty-six closely writ-
ten -but readable pages deals'not only with the problems
of board members, but with important problems of volun—
teers. The selection of board members, training of board
members, meetings, committees, standards of work evalu-
ation, employed personnel, volunteer personnel are all
extremely pertinent subjects in the field of recreation
today. A chapter on public relations is alone worth the
price of the volume.

An extensive bibliography will guide recreation work-
ers to other material related to this subject. This book
will make a valuable addition to the working library of
any recreation department.

Middletown in Transition

By Robert and Helen M. Lynd. _ Harcourt Brace and
Company. $5.00.

WELVE YEARS ago, 1925, Robert S. and Helen Merrell
Lynd, with a group of trained workers, settled down
in “Middletown” to niake an objective study Of society in
a middlewest town which was assumed to be typical of
contemporary American life. For a year and half this
group of investigatOrs lived with the people of Middle—

335

336 NEIV PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

town, observing and sharing their experiences. They were
concerned with how they made their living, what _the1r
home life was like, how the young were trained, how
they used their leisure, how they worshipped, and what
were their varied activities in other fields of action-The
findings of their study, “Middletown,” appeared 1n a
volume of 550 pages and was hailed ‘as one of the'great
contributions to social study and a pioneer in the method
of approach to social problems.

After a lapse of ten years, the- Lynds went back to
Middletown to see what had happened during the boom
years 1925-29 and the depression years 1930-35. For the
most part, the same pattern was followed as in the prev1—
ous study. Work, home, schools, leisure, religion and
other Community activities were observed, compared with
the previous study and appraised. Separate new chapters
deal with government, the press, health and the Middle-
town spirit. As they approached the new task, the work-
ers were eagerly expectant of finding exciting new things
in the life of the city. A rise to boom heights in 1929
and then a dramatic fall to the depths of four years of
depression would surely leave deep scars on the life of
that community. The volume, “Middletown in Transi-
tion.” (604 pages) is a fascinating story of Middletown
life during those eventful years.

But what of it all? What did the authors find after
ten of the most exciting years of any generation in peace
days? The Lynds, at the close of the study, report “that
basically the texture of Middletown culture has not
changed. Middletown is overwhelmingly living by the
values by which it lived in 1925; and its chief additions
are defensive, such as, among the business class, intense
suspicion of centralizing tendencies in government, of the
interference of social legislation with business, of labor
troubles, and of radicalism . . . aside from these no major
new symbols or ideologies of a positive sort have devel-
oped as conspicuous rallying points. hadership in the
community has not shifted in kind, but has become more
concentrated in the same central group observed in 1925.

But what of recreation? After reviewing at length the
changing attitudes and practices in the leisure time field
—thc development of public. recreation and a widespread
emergency program under government leadership—the
Lynds conclude: “Here and there, innovations learned
under the jarring dislocations of habit in the depression—
such for instance as the growth of interest in flower
gardens—will continue. But. the summary balance sheet
of Middletown’s four years of prosperous growth and six
years of depression experience suggests decidedly that the
community has not discovered with the help of its ‘new
leisure’ new designs for living.”

To recreation workers this one chapter on “Spending
Leisure” is worth an hour in the library. It could be used
as a basis of staff discussion, for comparative program
study, or a challenge to any community to check up on
its process of salvaging the values of an extended recrea-
tion program and the conserving of new and valuable
facilities and equipment.

Studies in GrOUp Behavior.

Edited by Grace Longwell Coyle. Harper and
Brothers, New York. $2.75.

This volume, Studies in Group Behavior, adds a unique
contribution to Miss Coyle’s writing in the field of group
work. From studies.in theory she turns to case studies
of actual groups in the most practical fashion. Five
groups, which were a part of a settlement program in a
foreign section of an American city, are the “cases.” The
doings of these groups, even to minute details of behavior
of their members, are told in simple reporting style. Per-
sonality traits, home backgrounds and personal interests
are described as a basis for understanding these individ-
ual reactions in the group. The attitude of the leader in
each critical decision of the group is noted. At the close
of each reported group meeting, questions are asked re-
garding the conduct of leader and members. To a group

   
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
    
   
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
    
 
   
 
 
  

leader this will be interesting and helpful reading, a
will enable a thoughtful person to interpret the activi
of his or her own group. What social attitudes are dev
oping? What new interests are arising? How are m
bers adjusting themselves to each other? What new 5 A
have members developed? What participation in com
nity affairs has been made possible? These and
other questions are answered as the reader follows
continued activities of the groups.

Extra-Curricular Activities in the Elementary Soho

By Charles P. Allen, Thomas R. Alexander,
Hendree W. Means. Webster Publishing Com
St. Louis, Missouri. $2.25 postpaid.

The purpose of this book has been to 'set forth 5
guiding principles for organizing and administ
extra-curricular activities in elementary schools. ll
practical suggestions are offered, and the teacher wis
informatiOn on recreational phases of the program
find much of interest.

The Secrets of Cartooning.

By Chuck Thorndike. The House of Little B
R.K.O. Building, Radio City, New York. $1.00.
Here is an instruction book in humorous dra
which will tell you just what you need for materials
tools and will introduce you, in a series of ten les
to the technique of cartoon making. Each lesso
accompanied by illustrations.

\

Friendly Animals.

By Lucile Q. Mann. Leisure League of America,
Rockefeller Plaza, New York City. $.25.

Mrs. Mann has told here in an exceedingly interes
way of a number of unusual pets. She has discussed t
under the following subjects: What are Pets? H
Folks; Friends from Abroad; A Bird in the Hand;
Terrarium; and Water Babies. Interesting illustrati
are used throughout.

Another booklet of the Leisure League dedicated
animals isA Dog’s Life—From Puppyhood to Old ‘
by Josephine Z. Rine. The booklet gives the informat

on .training and care of dogs which every dog 10
deSIres.

Officers and Directors. of the Nationa
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOSEPH LEE, President

JOHN H. FINLEY, First Vice-President
JOHN G. WINANT, Second Vice—President
ROBERT GARRETT, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.

HENRY L. CORRETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.

MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON-HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
GUSTAvus T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

§OSEPH LEE, Boston, Mass. 
. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRs. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury. N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H. If

 

