. Leisure

By JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER, JR.

An address at the Opening exercises
of The Cloisters in Fort Tryon Park,

New York City, May ll, |938

 

IN the early days of this country, life was relatively drab and barren. Machin-
ery was practically unknown. Man power was at a premium. There was no lei-
sure time. Duty laid a heavy hand on life, while beauty, if recognized, was viewed

askance.

With the changes that time has wrought, the wholesome and profitable use of
leisure, now so startlingly prevalent, is one of the great problems of the day. In its
solution the cultural and uplifting value of beauty, whether apprehended with the

eye or ear, is playing an increasingly important part.

Good music, worth-while drama, elevating books, great works of architecture

and art, beautiful parks and recreation areas made easily available to large num-
rbers of people—all of these facilities for the wise employment of leisure time, are

being recognized and made use of as never before. May it not well be that the
Cloisters, in their new environment, surrounded by nature at her best, will be-
come another stimulating center for the profitable use of leisure?

b If that should prove to be true; if what has been created here helps to inter-
pret beauty as one of the great spiritual and inspirational forces of life, having
the power to transform drab duty into radiant living; if those who come under
the influence of this place go out to face life with new courage and restored faith
because of the peace, the calm, the loveliness they have found here; if the many
who thirst for beauty are refreshed and gladdened as' they drink deeply from this
well of beauty, those who have builded here will not have built in vain.

From the New York Herald Tribune.

201

m ,m - —._-_. .. - a... .Iv'm q——-—— .T—w m PW“-Hv”im - —- v.-—]
‘
‘ _ l

 

( aurtesy Trenton, A'. J.) Park Department

202

Twenty-Three Authors and the Youth Problem

A digest OF "The Prospect For Youth,” a symposium

appearing in “The Annals" ot the American Academy
ot Political and Social Science, November, |937

By ARTHUR WILLIAMS

National Recreation Association

“Of all the dull dead weights men ever bore
None wears the soul with discontent
Like consciousness of power unused.”

HIS QUOTATION, cited by Dr. W. Wallace

Weaver in his introductory essay to this sym-

posium on the outlook for modern youth, may
well be taken as the text for this volume.

The authorities who have contributed to this
volume generally agree that modern living condi-
tions accentuated by the depression have delayed
the day of recognition and service of youth so
that although they are now no longer children,
they are not yet permitted to take up the respon-
sibilities of adults. A gap has been created be-
:ween the age of preparation and the age of ser-
vice which should be a matter of deep concern to
:he country. The reaction of present day youth
:0 this situation has been in two ways, according
:0 Dr. \Neaver’s analysis. One group of youth
.iave rebelled, and when denied legitimate goals
urn to racketeering, violence, sexual promiscuity
and other forms of anti-social conduct. Another
group adopt a defeatist attitude and accept their
.ituation. This, although possibly fortunate for
he immediate crisis, raises considerable doubt as
.0 what type of social order this latter group of
'outh will help to build and sustain in the near
:uture when it takes over control of the affairs of
he country. He is convinced that whether the
Iresent generation of youth, when it comes into
lower, will support and strengthen economic and
rolitical democracy will depend largely on the ex-
ent to which youth’s present effort is met with
e w a r d s' commensurate with
:s pains.

Dr. Weaver believes that as
ublic attention was focused
in child welfare in the 20’s,
‘Jday public attention is fo-

 
  
   

Copies of the November issue of The
Annals may be ordered. at $2.00

each. from the Academy of Political
and Social Science. 3457 Walnut

Street. Philadelphia. Pen n sylva n i a .

.cused on the needs of youth. He feels that youth
of today generally are a stronger generation all
around than any previous 'group of American
youth ; that they are the First generation of Ameri-
can adolescents to be called Youth collectively not

' because they have as a group developed a con-

sciousness of collective identity, but because youth
leaders have developed such a consciousness.

Dr. Homer P. Rainey of the American Youth
Commission ,states that the youth problem has de—
veloped in the same way that the farm problem
and the labor problem have developed; that the
problems of youth have been accentuated by the
depression; and that just as the aggregate of farm
problems and labor problems have ultimately come
to be labeled the Farm Problem and the Labor
Problem, so have the aggregate of youth problems
come to be labeled the Youth Problem.

Dr. Newton Edwards analyzes population data
and the effect which population changes will have
upon youth as a population element.

Recently there has been a decrease in the rela-
tive number of all under fourteen years of age,
together with an increase in the relative number ‘
of adults- over twenty-Five. The increase in the
absolute number of youth fifteen to twenty-four
will probably cease in about Five years. The ratio
of youth, fifteen to twenty-four of the total popu-
lation, will decrease in the future. The population
data presented by Dr. Edwards substantiates the
assumptions made by other writers contributing
to this work in their discussions of youth. Dr.
Edwards feels that as youth becomes mathemati-
cally less important to the total
population situation, the sub-
sequent aging character of the
population, as a whole will
tend to reduce the inHuence of
youth in politics, economics,

203

204 TWENTY-THREE AUTHORS AND THE YOUTH PROBLEM

ethics—in the whole area of human relations. He
does not comment on the inHuence of youth on
future development of the country when it takes
over the reins upon reaching adulthood. The de-
creasing ratio of youth to older persons should
operate to provide additional opportunities for
better and more extensive education, recreation
and other youth services, as there will be more
adults to carry the cost of such services.to a de-
creasing number of youth. He also points out
that youth are receiving more and more advan-
tages which enable them to contribute more and
more effectively to society, but that no provision
in society is made for them to make their con-
tribution.

Dr. Edwards analyzes the geographical distri-
bution of youth, showing that the ratio of youth
to adults varies in the different parts of the coun-
try and between urban and rural communities.
Youth are relatively more numerous in those areas
where the plane of living is low, where the income
is meagre, where population pressure on a re-
source structure is most severe, and where op-
portunity for cultural and intellectual growth is
most restricted. This situation presents a serious
challenge to leadership in education, recreation
and other youth services.

Dr. Rainey quotes statistics indicating that
youth under twenty-one are finding it increasingly
difficult to secure employment, records covering
an eighteen months’ period of service of the
United States Employment Service showing that
the age group under twenty-one has the lowest
placement rate of all major age groupings. Ac-
cording to the United States Employment Service
records, the employment situation is much better
for the age group twenty-one to thirty-four. A
large majority of youth are in
school at the age of sixteen; a
large majority have left school
by eighteen. These facts quot-
ed by Dr. Rainey indicate de-
finitely the actual existence of
the gap between formal edu—
cation for life and participa—
tion in the economic activities
of life.

Information available indi—
cates also that there is little re-
lationship between school stud-
ies and the type of employment
entered. He feels that there is
a need for reorganization and

"The shift from an argricultural to an
industrial economy, the coming into
effect of the law of diminishing re-
turnsI the agitation for laws raising
the school-leaving age and for the
abolition of child labor, the increase
in the number of employables, and the
technological improvements made in
the production and distribution of
goodsI inevitably had far-reaching ef-
fects on youth. These developments.
by postponing the day when young
people can accept permanent em-
ploymentI have considerably length—
ened the period of youth and have
created a number of serious youth
problems." —— Aubrey Williams.

reorientation of secondary education and also for
the development of adequate guidance. In his
judgment, guidance should cover avocational in—
terests as well as vocational needs. Because of the
mechanization of industry, Dr. Rainey is con-
vinced that the great body of workers, including
youth workers, must seek their major satisfac-
tions in life outside of their employment and that
an adequate and appropriate leisure time program I
must be developed.

Dr. Bruce L. Melvin discusses the special prob- ‘
lems of rural youth and bases his conclusions on an
examination of the same general body of facts as
the other writers analyzing the general field of:
youth problems and their causes. Dr. Melvin be—
lieves that even with a full industrial development
in urban centers, with a correspondingly large mi-
gration from rural areas to urban centers, there
will still be more rural youth than rural areas can
care for unless there is a considerable extension
of employment opportunities in the rural areas
themselves. He feels that aside from employ-
ment, rural youth face two difficult situations;
one, the thwarting of normal desire for marriage;
the other, the lack of opportunity for proper use
of leisure time. The grange, the church, and the
farm bureau are all falling short of enlisting the
participation of the mass of rural youth, and fa-
cilities for organized recreation are woefully in—
adequate. He feels that the federal emergency
programs are doing much to help with this situa-
tion. However, rural youth are turning to arti-
ficial and commercial amusements of nearby ur—
ban centers and to low grade recreation oppor-
tunities which are invading rural territory. Dr.
Melvin believes that the situation cannot be cor—
rected by trying to assist youth alone, but that a
general improvement of rural
conditions must be achieved.
He does believe, however, that f
such a general improvement?-
would bring its largest social?
returns in what it does for thel
youth group.

Jerome H. Bentley discus-'
ses the need of vocational guid:
ance for youth, feeling that
anything which will make it
easier for a young person to
find a suitable occupation be-
comes a social resource of
major importance.

Ordway Tead, in discussing

Tl‘VENTY—THREE AUTHORS AND THE YOUTH PROBLEM 205

youth and the labor un-
ions, stresses very strong-
ly the fact that voca-
tional guidance must pre-
pare youth for the sup—
port of unionism; that a
knowledge of conditions
of work in industry is a
vital part of any guid—‘
ance service in the selec-
tion of a job. He con—
siders the future employ-
ment conditions of youth
in industry as insepara-
bly tied up with the suc-
cess of unionism. He does
not touch on the point
raised by Dr. Rainey that
labor unions in many in-
stances are setting twen-
ty-one as a minimum age
for the beginning of apprenticeship.

Youth and the Community

A group of four papers on “Youth and the
Community” discuss the relation of youth to the
:hurch, leisure, politics and sports. Ray H.
Abrams in the “Prospect for Youth and the
:hurch” considers that the influence of the church
)n youth will be exactly what the influence of the
:hurch on society as a whole proves to be, and he
yelieves that available evidence indicates that on
he whole the church or churches representing or-
fanized religion will not assume any greater im—
aortance in the lives of the people of the com-
nunity than at present, but on the contrary will
:robably have a gradually declining influence. Dr.
\brams carefully differentiates between the church
nd religious organizations and religion itself.

“Youth and Leisure” by E. C. Lindeman is the
-ne paper devoted to the basic problem of the
road recreational needs of youth, the importance
[3 society of adequately meeting these needs, the
lecessity for a democratic provision of recreation
or all, and the contribution which adequate,
emocratically provided recreation and training
or a cultural leisure will make to the preserva-
on of democracy itself. While Dr. Lindeman ap-
ears to consider as new previously existing prob-
:ms and developments which have been brought
1arply into focus by the depression, and places
is emphasis on the relationhip of the federal gov—
»‘nment to the problem, he has effectively ana-

 

Courtesy Los Augeles Playground and Recreation Department

We must always keep in mind the ne-
cessity for educating future genera-
tions for a complete cultural as well
as a physical enioyment of leisure.

lyzed the importance of leisure and has presented
a telling argument for its consideration by society
as one of its present major problems.

In discussing the educational implications of
leisure Dr. Lindeman writes: “The fact that rec-
reation is still an appendage in departments of
physical education in our institutions of higher
learning is an indication of the formidable task of
reorganization which confronts educators. . . . The
person who plans, organizes, and administers lei-
sure programs for the future should be some-
thing more than an athlete; he should be, in fact,
a fit representative of the best in our cultural life.”
He might well have added reference to the pres-
ent practice of boards of education to append
their community recreation services to physical
education departments.

In discussing recreation and democracy he
points out that “if recreation can be effectively
utilized to build the materials for dictator states,
that is, for regimenting purposes, it is reasonable
to anticipate that it may also be used to furnish
a secure foundation for the democratic states,
that is for purposes of true freedom.” One might
add that local community and even neighborhood

206 TWENTY-THREE AUTHORS AND THE YOUTH PROBLEM

determination of recreation programs has been
and is one protection against the use of recreation
in this country for the regimentation of youth.

Dr. Lindeman emphasizes the need for leisure
for the youth Of sons and daughters of workers
and farmers as well as for the youth of the
privileged classes.

More than two million young men and women
annually reach the voting age, or about eight and
one—half million each four year period between
presidential elections—enough to control such
elections if all voted as a unit. Franklin Spencer
Edmonds, author of the article “Youth in Poli-
tics,” points out, however, that young voters are
as divided as their fathers. They have three
characteristics: they are generally better educated
than forty years ago; they do not recognize party
loyalty to the same degree as their fathers; they
have a pervasive interest in political experimenta-
tion. Mr. Edmonds devotes most of his article to
practical suggestions to youth planning to enter
politics as a career.

Lawson Robertson, head coach of American
Olympic teams surveys what is being done to pro-
vide sports for youth through the public schools
and colleges, and through park and playground
authorities. He finds this all too inadequate to
meet the needs and pleads for more opportunities
for participation in sports and athletics for the
less privileged youth. In discussing intensive com-
petition he writes, “I feel that boys under nine-
teen years of age should not engage in too strenu-
ous competitive athletics, particularly on the large
scale that is so heavily encouraged in many
schools. Competition demands more than the
youngster should and can give.”

Some Problems of Youth

In discussing youth and crime, J. P. Shalloo
points out the inadequacy of statistics available
for generalization. So far as these figures may be
used they indicate that the
many statements circulated as
to the increasing lawlessness
of youth are not borne out by
the facts. On the other hand
the average age of the criminal
seems to be rising. Crime pre—
vention is a local problem re-
lated to local community char-
acteristics and should be at-

tacked locally. Dr. Shalloo
cites Philadelphia as having

"The instinctive drives and urges of
youth are the 'same today as in the
past. The road by which attainment
is reached presents more competition.
is more involved and intricate. and
must be traveled faster. with fewer
guideposts. To make this iourney.
youth may call upon certain new
equipment unknown to his forefathers.
He must be prepared to meet rapid
change with almost immediate flexi-

bility."—-Emily H artsbome M add.

shown a decrease in arrests of boys 16-21 during
the period 1931 to 1935, with a further decrease
of 13 per cent for 1936 over 1935.

Selwyn D. Collins in a discussion of the health
of youth, based on a survey of'the health of nine
thousand white families living in eighteen differ-
ent states, points out that the age group 15-24 is
the healthiest group whether consideration be
given to all illnesses, disabling illnesses or days
lost from school or work. Young'women have a
higher illness rate than young men particularly in
the age group 20-24, the difference not entirely
accounted for by puerperal and female genital
disorders. On the other hand, the mortality rate
is higher for young men. Dr. Collins points‘to the
extensive morbidity and mortality associated with
childbirths within the youth age range. About 40
per cent of all white live births in the country oc-
curred to women 15-24 years of age, indicating
that prenatal and maternal care is a real problem
for the youth group. Youth of lower income
brackets suffer more illness and higher death
rates than those in higher income families. The
illness rates for youths in low income families ap-
proximated the rates for the oldest age group in
the highest income brackets. Accidents are the
most frequent cause of illness in male youth, colds
and bronchitis next. Colds and bronchitis are
most frequent in the case of young women, with
accidents fifth. Accidents are the most frequent
cause of death for both male and female, with
tuberculosis second and heart disease third. Auto—
mobiles account for 39 per cent of all deaths from
accidents, but only 9 per cent of all illness from
accident.

In outlining a program for mental health for
youth Bruce B. Robinson stresses the need for
proper home and community environment for
younger children as well as for youth itself.
Teachers and parents should be able to recognize
personality and emotional disorders so that they
may be corrected before defil—
nite mental disease develops.
Training of parents in the
home and teachers in teachers’
colleges is essential. Dr. Rob-
inson points out that person-
ality development of the child
and youth is influenced mosl,
strongly through his experi‘
ences in the home, in school
and in recreation. He believes
that the schools are woefull)

TWENTY-THREE AUTHORS AND THE YOUTH PROBLEM 207

inadequate in supplying youth with eXperiences
which give satisfaction and that communities
have made. only half-hearted efforts to develop
recreational opportunities for youth although
these offer the possibility of large satisfaction
through success. Proper housing and social se—
curity for the family are also essential to mental
health of youth. In discussing recreation Dr.
Robinson states, “A good recreation program can
be of great aid in de-
veloping mental health
for youth. Recreation
offers wide opportunity
for satisfaction, even to
the extent of making up
for a lack in that re-
gard in the home and
school. Success in rec-
reation is an excellent
way of building up self-
confidence and self-re-
spect. It would seem
that no worthwhile
mental hygiene pro-
gram for youth can be
arranged without the in-
clusion of adequate rec-
reational facilities. It is
interesting to reflect on
the benefits which might
come to the mental
health of girls and
iwomen through better
:recreational programs
for girls.”

Marriage to youth to-
day represents for them
the answer to the same
basic emotional, bio-
llogical, and social drives
,that it did for the grandpar-
tents, but the answer must be
found in an entirely different
sort of world, according to
Emily Hartshorne Mudd in
her paper on “Youth and
Marriage.” Mrs. Mudd recites
1 number of problems brought to her as marriage
:ounselor in a series of case histories. She sum-
narizes some of the more general problems as
ielayed independence due to the scarcity of good
positions, psychological adjustments necessitated
3y Wives as well as husbands working, and the

 

Photo by William Ncwfat'rk, Cambridge, Mass.

"With an impatience that is truly
ours. the members of the youthful
generation today earnestly desire the
utmost physical strength and ability

for achievement. . .
everything." —- Lawson Robertson.

. They hope to:

doubling up of families involving two or more
generations in one household.

Youth Programs and Movements

Aubrey Williams’ statement on the govern—
ment’s responsibility for youth brieHy outlines
what has been and is being done by what is per-
haps the most extensive national program for
youth. He points out that the government has
always assumed a re-
sponsibility for youth;
that until the latter part
of the nineteenth cen-
tury this was met large-
1y through the sale or
grant of government
lands; that since then
help has been given in
other ways such as aid
to education, vocational
guidance, emergency
work employment and
the provision of leisure
time facilities through
the federal works pro-
grams. Mr. Williams
states that recently the
principal efforts have
been on behalf of young
people under sixteen
and that in view of the
fact that most youth
now are not securing
employment until they
are eighteen or twenty-
one the government will
have to give special
consideration to meet-
ing society’s obligation
to this older age group.

The history and achieve-
ments of one phase of gov-
ernment youth service, the Ci-
vilian Conservation Corps, are
outlined by its director, Robert
Fechner. He emphasizes the
educational and training as-
pects of this program indicating that they are re-
ceiving increased attention each year. During the
present fiscal year $4,500,000 will be spent for the
educational program. Interesting facts relative to
the change in characteristics of youth enrollees

are brought out. In October 1935, median age of
(Continued on page 254)

Places to Play

To remind you once more of the
importance of play in the home!

VERY CHILD is entitled to a place to play. In

E the country, providing a play place is easy.

But in the city and the suburbs the question

is how to lay out the average-size lot so as to pro—

vide an outdoor playground in addition to an at-

tractive setting for the home. To answer that

question, Sunset scouts have been talking with

landscape architects, educators, parents—and chil—
dren—from Seattle to San Diego.

Adding all the ideas together, we find that the
best way to have a playground and a garden on
the same lot is to put the flower beds in the front
or the side yard, leaving the back yard, or most of
it, for family recreation. This means that in ad-
dition to garage, clothesline, and incinerator, the
ideal back yard will contain a playhouse, tree-
house, or pirates’ den; a wading pool, or at least

a hose shower—spray ; swings; something to clim
on; a sand box; houses for pets; and a picni
nook or shaded spot for quiet play on hot day:
The lawn should provide for games like croque'
horse shoes, bean bags, etc.

To give privacy to your play space, build
screen fence around the yard, or plant a screen 0
shrubbery. Insidethe garage, provide a specifi
space for parking bicycles, coaster-wagons, scoot
ers, doll buggies, and the like.

Wherever possible, plan your play space wit'
an eye to its serving some useful purpose afte
the'children outgrow it. (See diagrams.)

The Playhouse

A playhouse is a real delight to all growing chil
dren. It gives them a little home of their owr.

  

 

208

Today the yard belongs to the younger generationI with
playhouse. pool and playground equipment. The children
grow up. and simply and inexpensively the yard is made a
pleasant spot for the whole family. In a plan devised by
Thomas D. Church of San Francisco. playhouse becames a
summer houseI wading pool. a formal garden pool; sandbox
areas are turned into flower beds edged with 9” curbing;
fanbark becomes lawn surrounded by brick paving.

   
  

  

3+ It?! ‘

  

-* FLOWLR
"‘l I". :1

 

 

 

PLACES TO PLA Y 209
Where they no splint—
can “keep ers. All
house,” ,   corners
store their   - = ' "   ”  'x m u st b e
treasures, ’3  rounded
and enter- and all bars
tain their and climb-
friends. in g r o d s
A v e r y fastened so
simple and they won’t
inexpen- turn. All
siveplay— wooden
house can surfaces
be built must be
against the painted to
outsideof prevent
one of the warping
garage andalliron
walls. The ‘ _ surfaces
best way is - _,  '4." to prevent
to CXtend A playhouse which was planned' built and furnished wSting'

Or have a carpenter ex—
tend the sloping roof of

the garage out to a line
of 4 uprights spaced so that 2 of them will serve

as door—jambs.- With this framework in place,
it’s easy to complete a “lean—to” playhouse that
can later be. remodeled into a workshop or garden
studio.

All playhouses should be in full view of,the
house, and should be built so that the interior gets
plenty of light and air. Encourage the children to
do as much of the actual building and as much of
the furniture—making as is practical. The play—
house shown here is a good example of what
children can do by themselves, if they’re given a
Ilittle encouragement and supervision. Six-year-
old children in the first grade at Seattle’s Lake
Forest Park School planned it, built it, and fur-
,nished it; and when it was completed, the children
gave a “house party” for their fathers and
mothers, complete with refreshments of their own
,making.

For Young Acrobats

For climbing, sliding, and swinging apparatus,
lan outdoor platform gym is best. Such a gym can
{be bought for between $25 and $50, or it can be
'made at home.

In buying or making such a piece of equipment,
make sure that it’s sturdy enough to stand up
under rough usage. Have hard wood. See to it

that the wood has been sandpapered till there are

by first grade children of a school in Seattle

Having installed safe
apparatus, keep it safe
by a regular periodic
inspection. Replace ropes in swings every few
months.

If there isn’t room to install an outdoor gym-
nasium, see what can be done in the way of com-
bining clothes—drying equipment and gym equip—
ment. A Sunset scout saw this idea used suc-
cessfully in a number of San Joaquin Valley
yards. At each end of the drying yard, set up 2
iron posts in cement, about 5 feet aparta connect-
ing them across the top with a piece of iron pipe
the same diameter. The general effect will be that
of goalposts. From the cross-bars can be hung a
swing and a trapeze, as well as the clotheslines.

Picnics and Pets

Since every play yard should have a picnic cor—
ner as well as a shaded nook, try combining the
two. If there’s no tree in the right location for
the picnic unit, set up an awning. Pave the area
beneath it with tile fiagstones, or old brick.

Let the children help lay the paving and build
the barbecue. They may not turn out to be master
masons, but they’ll get fun out of having a part
in the creation.

Even though your play lot is small, provide for
pets. There’s always room for a dog, or rabbits,
or white mice, or turtles. In one Los Angeles
garden the children have great fun with an ob—
servation beehive made of glass. Another family

210 PLACES TO PLAY

of “grown-ups” is excited
about their ant village. Then,
of course, there must be bird-
houses, a bird bath, and a bird
feeding station.

Let the children make houses
and cages for their pets, and
have them shoulder full re-
sponsibility for taking care of the animals.

Junior Gardening

If possible, allow a little space for a children’s
garden, but don’t be disappointed if they fail to
show immediate interest in making one. “A little

garden of your own” sounds fine to very little chil-_

dren, but they’re seldom interested enough in to—
morrow to plant for it. Most of them prefer to do
something that’s more quickly finished and a little
more spectacular. '

8o, till they show signs of acquiring patience,
set them to other projects. For instance, furnish
them with a small sack of cement, and encourage
them to make things out of concrete. Show them
how to make designs in the concrete by pressing
in ferns, leaves, and shells while it’s soft. Or
start them collecting rocks for a rock garden or
shells for bordering the pool.

When it comes to planting, start the youngsters
off with bulbs. A bulb is large enough to make an
impression on even a small child. He plants it, and
when it flowers he connects what’s above ground
with what’s below, and begins to grasp the miracle
of gardening.

Older children like to grow radishes and other
quickly-maturing vegetables that can be eaten or
sold. If the children are interested in foreign
countries, have them start a “round the world”
garden, collecting and planting seeds of all the
strange plants they can get. Hemp, cotton, and
peanuts are a few of the un-
usual plants that are fas-
cinating to know and to
grow.

The Finishing Touches

Having installed the vari-
ous pieces of play equip-
ment, take a look at the
ground itself. If feasible.
plant grass in part of the
area, so there’ll be a place
for lawn games. Pave or
flagstone another area (pref -

This article and the illustrations which
accompany it are used by courtesy
of Sunset Magazine, 'San Francisco.
From Department C of the magazine
may be secured for twenty cents a
booklet entitled "Playhouse Plans"

containing plans for three playhouses.

erably the picnic corner) sol
there’ll be a dry place to play
when the ground is muddy.
Spread tanbark under the gym ’
apparatus, and it’s a good idea
to have an old mattress handy’
for when daring stunts are to '
be performed. Leave one sec- 3
tion of the yard 'in its natural state so there’s a’
place to dig, make mud pies, and do other grimydi
but important things.

Having provided a place. for the youngsters tol
play and things for them to play with, see to iti
that they use and get the most out of their partl
of the property. Make them feel responsible for
its care and upkeep.

Let the yard grow with the children. As they
grow up, take out the childish equipment and re-
place it with more adult games. Plan your play
yard so it gradually becomes a real garden, a part
of the permanent landscape plan. 

“While the possibilities of the neglected back-
yard as a play center for children are being con-
sidered, its advantages as a recreation area for
adult members of the family as well should not be;
overlooked. Many activities, such as paddle ten-
nis, volley ball and basketball can be, enjoyed by
adults as well as children. Horseshoes, lawn cro-'
quet, shufHeboard on the concrete driveway to the
garage, practice putting courses for golf players,
squash, tether ball, bowling and many other games‘»
and sports may easily be ac-
commodated in the average
yard.

 

 

 

  
  
   

“Most families enjoy a
picnic excursion into the.
out of doors but cannot;
always hnd frequent op-:
portunities for making
these pleasurable jaunts.
By installing an outdoor'l
table under a pergola ini
the yard, and by trans
forming the homely incin-

erator into an outdoor fire-,
place, all of the necessary fa-
cilities will be present close a
hand whenever the famil
group desires a picnic, a wien
er bake or a marshmallowt
roast.” -— George H jelte inf
California Parent-Teacher. I

 

    
 
  
 

A Training Course in Home Play

SIGNIFICANT experiment
A in our recreation pro-
gram -——— perhaps the
most significant one———is our
training course in home play.
During cold, inclement weather the problem of
what to do with children in overcrowded homes
is a perplexing one. This becomes acute when ill-
ness prohibits the children getting out of doors,
especially during quarantine. Accordingly, even
though the homes are small and overcrowded, we
are attempting to teach boys and girls from eleven
to thirteen years of age how they may direct an
indoor play program in the home, not only for
themselves but more particularly
for their younger brothers and
' sisters. The members of the
training group are enthusiastic
and are eagerly putting into prac-
tice the plans and projects pre-
sented at the weekly sessions.
The outline of the course,
which is being given by Mrs.
Wayne C. Sommer, Associate
Director of Kensington Play-
house, follows:

Questions to Be Asked at First Meeting

Have you done these things?

Cared for a younger brother or sister or other
child after school or for an evening for a cer-
tain number of times, regularly over a given
period of time? Planned and provided a
place for a child to put away his toys? Plan-
ned and fixed up a play space for a child in
your family? Selected playthings or toys for
a pre-school child? Told stories to a younger
child in the family or to a group of children
three or more times? Taught a song or poem
to a little child?

What do you do at home in the evenings?

What do the little children do?

Does mother or father go out a certain number
of times regularly to lodge, church, visiting,
shopping?

What playthings have you already in your home
1 for your little brother or sister?

1 The girls taking the course will be asked to keep
notebooks. At this point it would be explained

By CHARLES H. ENGLISH

Executive Secretary
Playground and Recreation Association

Philadelphial Pa.

In the May issue of Recreation
Mr. English told of the experi-
ments which the Playground and
Recreation Association of Phila-
delphia is conducting through its
Tot Lot Playgrounds and Play-
houses. Another experiment of
significance for the entire rec-
reation movement is described

in this article by Mr. English.

why, and they would be
shown how useful these will
be to them after they have
finished. They may add. from
time to time, things which
they have picked up themselves and found to be
liked by the smaller children left in their charge.

Lesson 1 .

A few simple rules to follow in teaching a song
or poem: '

Read the entire song or poem through first
aloud.

Explain the meaning of words the child does
not understand.

Read the first line and have the
child repeat. Do the same with
each line until entire verse is
complete.

Repeat two lines at a time and
have child repeat.

Repeat three lines at a time.

See if the child can now repeat
the entire poem without help.

Sing melody line by line.
Teaching a game:

Explain it, telling child the correct name.

Put child in position to play.
Walk through entire game.
Go through entire game as it is to be played.

Have each girl bring to next meeting a song,
poem or game she already knows and teach it to
rest of the group, bearing these rules in mind.

Follow this demonstration with a discussion of
methods used. Be sure the criticism is con-

structive.
Teach the poem—“The House that Jack Built”

—using the child’s blocks at home to build the
house and place the characters inside. If the child
does not have a set of blocks, use chairs for the
house and have the children pretend they are the
animals in the poem.

Lesson 2

Shadow game: Played by the one who is “It”
trying to step on someone’s shadow. If he suc-

ceeds, that person becomes “It.”
Silhouettes on the wall made with the hands to

illustrate the following Aesop’s Fables:

211

212 A TRAINING COURSE IN HOME PLAY

The Fox and the Goat; The Cat and the Fox;
The Monkey and the Cat; The Dog and His
Shadow; The Dog in the Manger; The Hare and
the Tortoise.

Teach Stevenson’s poem, “My Shadow.” This
may be used as either a poem or the song Version.

Lesson 3

Make a family of paper dolls, using old mail
order catalogues or magazines. Begin with woman
and several children. Make a cardboard design of
a large shoe. Illustration: “Old Woman Who
Lived in a Shoe.” Poem.

Have each girl write a short story around her
paper doll family and bring to next meeting.

Lesson 4

Up to this time the children have not been using
much in the way of materials so that mother has
not been asked for very much, the whole idea so
far having been to start with very little equip-
ment and gradually work up to something with
more materials.

The girls are asked to bring their mothers to
this meeting. The course outline will be shown
to the mothers and they will be told just what
their girls are doing and why. When the girls be—
gin to ask for material, the mother will then know
why and be more cooperative and sympathetic.

Games may be played after the meeting. The
games used for our meetings were “Guggenheim”
and the alphabetical game of the trip to a foreign
land, each player naming something they will take
beginning with a letter in the alphabet. Refresh—
ments may be served.

Lesson 5

Fun with Fruit :

a. Apple into hen. Story illustration— “Little
Red Hen”

b. Pear into cat. Story illustration— “Puss in
Boots”

r. Banana into boat. Story illustration—“I Saw
a Ship a’Sailing”

d. Lemon into pig. Story illustration—“Dis—
contented Pig,” “The Old Woman and Her
Pig,” “The Little Pig Who Wanted a
Straight Tail”

Note: The material for this lesson will be
found in the magazine Children’s Activities for

January 1937.

Lesson 6

Animal cut-outs of white, light weight card-
board. Body is cut separately and legs fitted into I
slits so that the animal will stand. These patterns
can be secured from the National Recreation As-
sociation Bulletin Service. Bulletin No. 3894.

Use the sheep pattern to illustrate poems:

a. “Mary Had a Little Lamb”—_song, drama- '
tize poem.

(9. “Little Bo—Peep”——song, dramatize poem.

6. “Baa, baa Black Sheep”—song, dramatize

poem.
Later other Mother Goose rhymes may be used.

and eye; Matching cOlor cards. (Have girls make
their own sets.)

Games: (singing) Mufhn Man; Did You Ever
See a Lassie? One Thumb, One Finger Keep
Moving.

When selecting games to play in the home with
the little brother or sister, remember that in some
cases there will only be two or three persons play-
ing. Therefore, the games must be those that can r‘
be successfully played with only one or two 7
persons. j

|
Lesson 7
Games: Hide the Thimble; Nose, mouth, ear
1

I
¢

Lesson 8

Hand Puppet: Have older girl make puppet and
use it as a medium for telling stories. This pup— I
pet may be made entirely of cloth or cardboard '-
base, or if you want something more elaborate,
make a head of saw dust and flour and water paste.

Stories : “Little Jack Rabbit and the Tar Baby” :
“Little Black Sambo” ; “The Little Jackal Stories.” l

Give outline of each story to girl for her note- 1
book, also source.

Have each girl tell one of the stories from the
above list when her puppet has been completed.
This will help her to use it more cleverly so that l

l

 

 

. . I
she Wlll eventually become unconscious of the
manipulation and can concentrate on her story.

 

Lesson 9

l
Shoe box doll house for little sister; shoe box}.
wagon for little brother. ."
For wagon use milk bottle caps painted a bright
color for wheels. For the doll house furnish room ,
with cardboard furniture. Use scraps of materiall
for window curtains. .
Materials needed: shoe box, plain white paper, 0
cardboard, pencil, crayons and scissors.

A TRAINING COURSE IN HOME PLAY 213

Lesson 10

This lesson will be devoted to things that can be
made by or for the convalescent child and which

he can use while still in bed for imaginary play.
Pin—packs for design

Scrapbooks of something the child is especially

interested in
Puzzles from postal cards,
brir‘ht colors. The post card is

small so there
are not a great
many pieces and
it can be finish—
ed more quickly
than an ordi-
nary puzzle and
will not tire the

child.

Paper chains
to decorate the
bed or room.

N e W s p a p e r
hats decorated
with solid color
fruits, flowers,
etc., to suggest

apphque.
Wrapping pa-

per fish kites

stuffed with

newspapers tied
» to bed.

Scrapbook
covers can be
made from old
posters, card-
board from

laundry or old
catalogues

Home Play Material Kits

It was found that limited space in the homes
was not the only handicap. Lack of play materi—
als of any description was discouraging to our
class of trainees. So we are now evolving porta-
ble kits of home play materials, and with the aid
of class members the equipment needed for such
kits is being determined. It seems advisable to
attempt only one type of program an evening, and
accordingly Wayne C. Sommer, Director of the

They're entirely willing to serve as
practice material for brothers and
Sisters taking courses in home play!

 

By Stevens Meylan, Geneva, Switzerland
Shown in the Kodak International Exhibit, New York City, February 1938

Kensington Playhouse is working on five different
kits—~home music, dramatics, crafts, table games,
and simple games and entertainments for use dur-
ing illness and convalescence. Training in the use
of the equipment is given in the training course.

This fall Mr. Sommer will accept invitations to
neighborhood homes where there
are large families and will put
on a demonstration of play pro-
grams. This
will include a
talk and a pe-
riod of activity
in which the
the whole fam-
ily participates.

P a r e n t s a s
Source Ma-
terial!

Another ap—
proach to fam—
ily play in the
home is being
developed. The
children are re-
questing their
mothers or fa-
thers to tell
them the story
of their own
childhood. In a
majority of the
cases this nar-
rative is one of
a homeland in
foreign lands.
Parentsare
asked: (I)
w h a t gam e 5
they played;
(2) about the
. dances and fes-
tivals; (3) what kind of things they made and of
what material; 4) the kind of parties they held,
etc. The children urge their parents to illustrate
how all this was ‘done or to show them the prod—
uct of their handiwork if possible. At the play-
house the youngsters give demonstrations and re-
ports on their findings at home. The play leader
uses this material to develop a festival at which
the parents are the invited guests.

(Continued on page 256)

l-landcrait on a Shoestring

T WAS at the arts and
I crafts meeting of the
1937 National Recre-
ation Congress at Atlan-
tic City that we found a
solution to our boys’
handcraft problems.

For a number of years the
Montreal Parks and Play—
grounds Association had been
conducting with very indiffer-
ent success a program of handcraft for boys on
our playgrounds. Lack of funds, facilities and
equipment made the project difficult to promote.
Finally our budget was cut to the point where no
funds were available for materials or for even a
part-time instructor.

At the Atlantic City meeting ideas Hew thick
and fast. Delegates were so eager to tell how
they had managed to solve their problems of se-
curing materials, leadership and money that it was
a simple matter for those of us who were present
to sift out a number of suggestions and apply
them to our own situations. More than that, the
meeting fired the imagination and rekindled the
lire of enthusiasm.

On returning to Montreal I called a meeting of
the men supervisors and put the situation up to
them. Either we would have to run the handcraft
program ourselves or dr0p it. I told the workers
of some of the ways other cities were carrying on,
and our group decided to take on the extra .as-
signment. We felt that certain things should be
done to arouse the
pioneer and cooper-
ative spirit which
was the key to suc-
cess. Here are a few
of our decisions:

Children should
be encouraged to
share the cost of
materials and equip-
ment.

We should strive
for skill and work-
manship at all
times, seeing to it
that those taking

214

A recreation supervisor who attended the
Recreation Congress at Atlantic City in
l937 tells why his governing board plans
to send a delegate to the next Congress

By STANLEY RoupH

General Supervisor
Parks and Playground Association
Montreal. Canada

 

part complete the articles
started. It was important.
we felt, to give the chil-
dren an opportunity to
use their imagination in
working out their own
ideas. _

We agreed that children
should be urged to bring their
own tools to the ground to work
with and to build up their own
tool kits.

Allowing the children to take the objects they
made home would interest parents in the play-
ground.

An important matter considered was that of the
use of scrap'material. We agreed to consider
every store, factory, yvarehorfse and home of the
city as a possible source of materials and every
child as a collector.

None of our staff was especially gifted. In
fact, several had never handled tools before, but
all were enthusiastic over the experiment.

   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

The Program

We drew up a program of simple articles easy
to make which would be of some use to the mak-
ers themselves and the materials for which could
be secured from neighborhood stores and fac-
tories. The list included French solitaire, checker-
boards (plain and inlaid), French checkers (I44
squares instead of 72), pick-up sticks, mill, sticks
and rings (an Indian game), window boxes, sand
bag game equip- '
ment, ring toss
boards, cut-outs,
door stops, tie racks
and picture frames.
Diagrams with di—
rections for making
and playing these
games were sup- '
plied each super-
visor. A donation '
of $50.00 was re-
ceived from the
American Woman’s
Club for hnancing
a program.

HANDCRAFT ON A SHOESTRING 215

Each ground was given 100 feet of I x 10
rough lumber, one claw hammer, one saw, one
small whetstone, four fret saws, two packages of
blades, one package assorted sandpapers, two
vises, one can glue, one ruler. Supervisors were
given $8.00 in cash to purchase additional ma—
terials when and how they saw fit, such as paint,
hooks, nails, brushes, wood and blades.

Our experience taught us that we might well
have supplied each shack with a work bench made
possible from a couple of wooden horses with
three or four inch planks, two feet to thirty inches
in width and long enough to place along one side
of the shack. '

Very few grounds made all of the articles sug-
gested, but boys brought models of their own to
the grounds and over a hundred different types of
articles were made during the season.

The experience cited by the supervisor of the
St. Lawrence Kiwanis Club PlaygrOund is typi-
cal. This ground was in operation six weeks
longer than the other grounds; hence the larger
appropriation of $15.

“The boys’ handcraft this year has been excel-
lent. The keynote of all work produced has been
practicability. Articles have been made for use as
well as ornament, and in many cases a boy brought
over his own plans, for something that his mother
needed.

“The fine workmanship and finish of the arti—
cles made were outstanding. Two of the fathers,
carpenters by trade, expressed surprise that we
were turning out such good work with so little
actual experience and so few tools.

“The cost of the handcraft program was sur—
prisingly small. For 196 completed articles our
cost was $13.45. Out- of this sum we can deduct
about $2.45 which was really spent on other ac-
tivities, leaving a total of about $11.00 for hand-
craft alone. Next season, with the experience
gained, this could be cut down to $6.00 or $7.00.

“Toward the middle of the season we had
started working on a fifty—fifty basis; that is, a
boy would be given three fret saw blades to use,
and when these three were broken he bought three
for himself. This helped cut down the cost of
equipment and it was, used whenever possible,
even on sheets of sandpaper. A boy received
credit on blades or sandpaper if he loaned us an-
other tool such as a plane or pliers. Wood was
obtained wherever we could get it and no piece
of lumber was too small or too mean to be used.

Often one box (apple variety) would go into the

making of half a dozen different articles. Even
the nails from the boxes were used again when
possible. Inlay work was often done to cut down
the number of nails required to produce strength
and durability. This made the job longer, but it
cost less and was better finished.

“Four boys were trained to look after the hand-
craft group and oversee the work, and they did a
splendid piece of work. “A new idea for us was
the training of very young boys in simple hand-
craft from whom we can build up our groups next

. season. We also have a collection of models and

plans for next year, and a half dozen boys have
promised to look for ideas during the winter and
try to have ready a wood supply for us from
storekeepers. .Of our 196 articles made we had
thirty—seven different models. Bookcases, window
boxes, book ends, tie racks, pipe racks, smokers.
ferneries, pen stands, garden ornaments, picture
frames, magazine racks, calendars and perpetual
calendars were among some of the models com-
pleted.

“We have never had such a display of hand—
craft before, nor have we ever had such a large
group taking part. There were forty-six working
members and many of these spent time repairing
backstops, making home-plates and doing general
repair jobs.”

It was amazing to see how this year’s program
brought out leadership qualities in older boys,
many of whom were fine workmen with plenty of
imagination given a. chance to use it. Merchants
became interested when enthusiastic supervisors
and children approached them and sent to the
grounds fruit cases, tea boxes and wood scraps in
general.

It was not unusual for me to be hailed by en—
thusiastic handcrafters when I was in the vicinity
of a ground and dragged off to some shed or cel-
lar to see the work an overflow group was busily
engaged in. The boys were so proud to show off
their models! Some grounds collected so much
wood that they were able to donate some of it to
those less fortunate. Many of the youthful in-
structors “scouted” other grounds, hobby shows
and department stores for new ideas. In making
pot holders, the boys made two frames and traded
one to the girls for two cotton holders. At super-
visors’ meetings the men chattered over handcraft
ideas like crows in a cornfield.

At the handcraft show at each playground the
boys for the first time made the girls look to their

(C ontinucd on page 257)

Trailer Units for the Recreation Program

AST SUMMER the Recreation Commission of
Akron, Ohio, representing the Board of Edu-
cation and the city in a cooperative program

of recreation, constructed two trailer units which
were used for the first time in the general recrea-
tion program. Many advantages were found in
this type of equipment, and though the initial cost

seemed rather high, the equipment will be service-’

able for many years. The trailers were built en—
tirely from new materials, and each was mounted
on a chassis built for it. _

The following technical information will be of
interest to other communities contemplating equip-

mcnt of this type.

Trailer Unit No. l—Folding Platform

This unit consists of a wooden reinforced plat-
form 8’ x 20’ with a hinged apron on each side
3’x20’, making the platform when opened up,
14’ x 20’, a sufficiently large space to accommo-
date easily a forty piece band. The aprons are
hinged to fold up on top for transportation and
are supported when opened up by adjustable tele-
scoped legs made of 3” and 2” galvanized pipe
fastened to the platform by screw flanges. The
legs can be taken off when platform is folded.
When the platform is opened up there -are five
3” iron pipes extending seven feet into the air
for lighting equipment and loud Speaker equip-
ment. Suspended beneath the special chassis are
two lock compartments, 3’ x2’ X8’, where all
chairs, lighting equipment and supplies are car—
ried and stored. The unit is painted a conserva-
tive battleship grey and the insignia of the Com-
mission is painted on the ends of the lock com-
partments. This platform has been used con-
stantly for community band concerts, as a public
reviewing stand for civic parades, for community
street dances and amateur shows, as a chassis for
parade floats, and in some instances for light haul-
ing. It can be set up and dismantled in about
fifteen minutes to provide band accommodations
for community street dances.

Trailer Unit No. Z—Theater

This unit might be called a small house on
wheels. When closed for transportation, the out-
side measurements are 8’ wide, 7’ high, and 16’
long. The platform or floor of heavily reinforced

216

By W. H. EDMUND

Director. Recreation Commission

Akron. Ohio

Traveling theaters, perambulating
circuses, activities of all kinds
scurrying about on wheels, are
making playgrounds exciting places!

wood' is mounted on a special two wheel chassis.
The sides and top are galvanized, with 2”X4”
reinforcement for frame. The unit is being paint-
ed in all colors and decorated “a la circus wagon.”
The right side of the unit, facing front, is hinged
at the bottom and can be lowered completing a
stage 14 feet by 16' feet. The side is lowered by
an enclosed cable system operated by two awning
gears adapted for this purpose. When lowered,
the side is supported by three telescoped legs
similar to those used for the platform unit. With
a series of upright pipes and screw flanges on the
corners, the entire stage can be enclosed with cur-
tains and side drops. The left side of the unit,
facing front, is equipped with a complete marion-
ette stage (folding), opened to public view by a
hinged portion of the side, 4’x 5’. Permanent
equipment of the unit includes a small pianette,

I 50 folding chairs, lighting equipment, and loud .

speaking equipment, besides all necessary stage
curtains, backdrops, etc. The entire interior is
being sealed with beaver board and redecorated
for this summer. A door at the rear of the trailer
is the only entrance to the unit when the sides are

closed and locked. Removable steps are hauled in .

the unit and attached at this door. Both units
form a platform and stage standing about 4 feet
off the ground. The theater unit is used for dra—
matics, amateur shows, concerts and puppetry.
To enable the use of the units in areas of the
city where attachments for electricity may be hard
to find, both units carry and use a system of gas-
oline-pressure storm lanterns. They are inexpen—
sive and just as good as electricity. For the loud
speaking equipment the units must be located near
electricity outlets, but it is not often necessary to
use this equipment. The wheels and axles for the

( C o'ntz'nued on page 257 )

 

l

 

Courtesy Junior Illusemn, San Francisco

"Lindy" Started ltl

INCE LINDBERGH’S flight in 1927
S the eyes of the world, and espe-
cially the eyes of the world’s
youth, have been focused on one
spectacular air achievement after

another, until today’s aviators are more glamorous

to modern youngsters than pony express riders
and river pilots were to the boys and girls of the

1800’s.

“Lindy” did it! Unquestionably Lindbergh’s
accomplishment was the romantic takenoff of the
tremendous interest now shown in aircraft, and
especially model aircraft, by the youth of this na-
tion. As a result of this newly created interest a
world—wide industry is now furnishing model air—
craft supplies and a source of intense pleasure to
thousands of ardent model aircraftsmen.

Pleasure, however, is not the sole benefit. In
addition to acquiring the skill to construct a small
machine capable in many instances of thirty min-
utes flight, modern youngsters are becoming fa-
miliar with the scientific principles of flight
formerly known (only to a few technicians. From
the ranks of these eager hobbyists will come the
‘Lindys of the future.

. With little required in the way of organization
lor instruction in the use of tools and materials,
Lany air-minded boy 01' girl can be developed into
a real model aircraftsman. Such an undertaking

By EDWIN CONRY
WPA Supervisor

Recreation Department

Chico. California

is truly recreative handicraft and
has a place in a recreation program.

Requirements for the Program

A Work Room. In organizing a
group of model plane enthusiasts the leader must
have access to a suitable work room with water
and heat—either gas, electricity or sterno—as well
as adequate work benches and storage space for
tools and models under construction. Large card-
board boxes which will keep the models safe be-
tween work periods are very necessary. The
writer once spent several unpleasant moments try—
ing to explain the havoc wrought when a large
sized woman rested upon a large box full of com—
pleted planes belonging to members of his class!

Do not make the mistake of leaving models
where they can be handled by anyone! After sev—
eral calamities, an iron-clad rule of “Don’t touch
anyone’s model” was enforced in the working ses-
sions of our group and proved very bEHencial.

Tools and Materials. Few tools are necessary
and these very common ones. A coping saw and a
pair of round nose pliers, of the type used by
electricians with wire cutting edges, are the most
important. Satisfactory material, however, is a
different matter, since it is almost impossible to
do creditable work by using odds and ends of
ordinary material. lalsa wood from South

217

218

America is necessary. This, together with all the
other material needed, can usually be procured
locally, but often more economically through the
large supply houses which advertise in Model Air-
plane magazines. Piano wire, model airplane tis-
sue (not ordinary tissue paper), rubber (the fiat
brown model airplane variety), and a few metal
fittings are all that is needed, except plenty of a
special glue which can be purchased with the
other supplies or made by dissolving transparent
celluloid toothbrush handles or similar articles in
airplane dope obtainable from the local airport.
Each hobbyist may bring from home such items
as razor blades—the single edged type is best——
pins, a small air tight bottle, a sharp knife, trans-
parent wax paper, sand paper, rulers, with steel
ferrule, and other little odds and ends which the
real worker needs as his skill progresses.

Organization. After plans have been made for
the source of materials, the actual organization
should not be difficult. In our particular case a
small notice on a school bulletin board brought
immediate results, and a meeting in the work
shop was called. There a completed model was
demonstrated and interest became white-hot. Pro-
cedure from this point onward depends upon the
financial status of the sponsoring agency. Our
own solution was to charge a small fee of twenty-
five cents to be used in partially defraying the
cost of the activity. This also promoted a feel-
ing of responsibility in the participants and curbed
wasteful practice.

With careful planning, sufficient material to en—

able twelve boys in a group to construct six_

models each may be purchased for approximately
five dollars. This is assuming, however, that the
first three models will be simple ones and those
contructed later will be fairly complicated. How-
ever, all should be capable of fiight and worth
making. In any case, a small fee is useful in that
it may be refunded or used to provide awards for
contests to be held later.

Another. plan which works well in operation
with large sized groups is to require each mem—
ber of the class, regardless of age, to construct
one simple model, such as a Training Glider whose
plans are shown, in order to determine their rela-
tive aptitude and provide a basis for the division
of the class. A group of fifteen or more should
. be divided up, but age classification alone is not
always feasible. A rough division as to age, how-
ever, is at thirteen years, but better results will be

“LINDY” STARTED IT!

achieved and each group will have more fun if
sections are organized separately, with demon-
strated skill as a basis of. organization. Experi-
ence has shown us that better results will be ob-
tained if youngsters under ten are tutored in the
art of simple model boat‘construction, which is
very fascinating in itself and better adapted to
their younger talents.

Early in the game we found that the greatest ,‘

problem facing the beginning hobbyist was the

necessity for precision which was beyond that 3

demanded by other types of construction he had ‘

1

previously attempted. Once the need for accuracy ‘

was impressed upon the builder, great improve-
ment was quickly shown, however, and if suffici-

ent insistence by the instructor is made from the ,

first, little difficulty should be encountered. Suc-
cessful completion of one model must, of course,

i

be a pre-requisite for starting the next “job,” ‘

which should be slightly more elaborate. It is
also advisable to have several completed models
on display from time to time, as this greatly aids
in simplifying the construction.

Instruction. Actual instruction was strictly in-
formal on our set-up. No routine step-by—step
method of explanation was used, and each builder
was allowed to work alone at his own speed. Dif—
ficult steps were demonstrated, of course, but
“that terrible classroom feeling” was strictly
avoided. For this reason it was found that no
more than twelve craftsmen should be aided by
one instructor. Working sessions were composed
of two hour periods.

Every builder was supplied with a set of full
scale drawings; this was found to be the only
satisfactory method of operation.
method of constructing a 'model plane is by as—
sembling each member directly upon the full size
drawing which is protected from glue by a sheet 2
of transparent wax paper tacked directly upon it.
These drawings are rather difficult to secure with- .
out expense; however, our class collected a num-
ber of them from the “leftovers” of commercial
kits which they had previously purchased.

The planes attempted by beginners were simple
yet efficient, and were of the flying model type.
Interest of young builders will quickly pall when
solid scale models, which, after all, are ornaments, :
are constructed, even though they may be less dif-
ficult in the elementary designs. Occasionally older, _
more mature participants have been known to for-

sake flying models for the complicated scale rep- '

i.

The easiest ‘

l

 

“LINDY” STARTED IT! 219

licas. Later, the first model having been success-
fully completed and flown, more advanced types
were selected by the craftsmen from a group of
plans collected by the class and carefully graded
as to structural complexity. -

Throughout the course various principles in-
volving aerodynamics were informally taken up
and explained to the older boys. Nearly always
the discussion was brought about by the builders
themselves with questions which arose naturally
from details of construction. For instance, in con-
struction of the Training Glider—someone asked,
“Why are the wings bent up in the middle?” A
simple explanation was then made of the princi-
ples of lateral stability which was understood
without effort. This is a very valuable feature of
this hobby, providing as it does information con-
cerning a subject which will some day be as com-
mon as that of carbureters today.

Actual construction is just one
part of model aircraft activities. In-
formal flying, organized meets,
clubs and other activities are a nat-
ural outgrowth. In fact, there is no
need to limit the fun to the young.
The recent development of tiny,
gasoline power-plants has intrigued
a good proportion of the adult male
and female population, and at nearly
every airport can be seen one of the
six to ten foot “cloud-busters” soar-
ing around.

As an aid to anyone who intends
organizing a model aircraft move-
. ment and applying a really valuable
hobby to the field of recreation, a
bill of materials completely covering
the needs of a group as outlined in
this article has been developed and
is given here, as well as an outline
of projects arranged in order of in-
creasing difficulty, including plans
for a suitable beginners model.

Outline of Projects

1. Training Glider (see drawing)

2. Baby R.O.G. (Rise off Ground)
A simple rubber powered stick
model with 12” wing spread and
5” propeller and landing gear.

3. Outdoor Tractor 18” wingspread
8” propeller cambered wing.

Detail of half of Wing—pr V/eW

 

4. 16” “Fuselage” modelwith built-up cabin type
fuselage, cambered wing 8” propeller.

5. 25” Endurance Tractor—built up fuselage,
cambered wing and stabilizer.

6. 18” Flying scale model (built upon lines of a
large commercial ship)

A 30” endurance tractor suitable for con-

tests may be constructed in place of the scale
model as an option.

Bill of Material for a Group of Twelve Hobbyists

. ———-Six Models Each. (Cost based on retail list)

BALSA STRIPS (18” LONG)

Quantity Dimension C 0st
1000——-1/16” x 1/16” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$ .40
400—1/16” x %” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .40

( C ontimied on page 257 )

The building of a Training Glider has been
found to be a satisfactory test of aptitude

Glue Wing fo 16p of Fuse/age? here

(x. f 7/6" x 78" (Well sandal)

‘o f / {
$3902?»—

I
ill/Agggensrgps or or

W00 mam er:

Front wew of wmg

>Crack Spar here, bend up 4 glue

TRAINING GLIDER

FULL SCALE
E Conn;

4-10-38

Exploring Primitive Areas

Y HORSEBACK, through the primitive areas
B of seven states, the Trail Riders of the
\Vilderness will take the trail this sum—
mer. Through roadless regions where the
grandeur of bold moun—
tains vies with the beauty
of alpine flora and spar-
kling lakes, this band of
explorers will seek adven—
ture. They will swim and
fish in little known lakes
and streams which flow
through dramatic country,
and will camp in alpine
meadows where bold ma-
jestic mountains form
spectacular backgrounds.

Organized by and Ope—
rating under the direction
of the American Forestry
Association, the Trail Rid-
ers have become a real
factor in the national plan
to greater recreational op-
portunities. As a group,
they represent a means by
which any man or woman
in a normal state of health
and with an average
amount of outdoor exper—
ience may, at the low cost
of around ten dollars a
day, fully enjoy true wil—
derness country under ex—
perienced and organized
leadership. For cooperat—
ing with the American
Forestry Association in or—
ganizing and directing
these expeditions are the
United States Forest Ser-
vice and the National Park
Service, the two government agencies responsible
for the administration and protection of the larger
remnants of the primitive.

Under this leadership nearly two hundred and
fifty men and women have participated in eighteen
separate expeditions to the major wilderness areas
of six different states. More than two thousand

220

There are seven Fascinating choices open
to you it you decide to Follow the trail

with the Trail Riders oi the Wilderness

 

Courtesy American Forestry Association

miles of wilderness trail have been explored. The ,

riders have fished little—known streams and lakes
from the hidden canyons of the great Gila Wil—
derness in New Mexico to the mountainous mass
around majestic Mount Olympus in the State of
Washington. '
Seven expeditions are

scheduled for this.

 

EXPLORING PRIll/II TI 17E AREAS 221

To the land of the
Blackfeet Indians
in Montana; through
the Wind River Wil-
derness of Wyoming:
into the canyons ot

the Gila Wilderness

of New Mexico—here
the trail will lead.

 

Courtesy American Far-estrv ASSOCfUUOI:

summer, one each in Montana, For further information regarding Blackfeet Indians once held for
“W’Oming, IdahO, COIOI‘adO, “"959 MP5. Which are_ Operaied 0" their ceremonial sun dances.
Washington, California and, a "‘3‘"'F"”'°‘qJr bas'sl “mm The Amer' This is bold, glaciated mountain

ican Forestry Association' 9|9 |7th

T *. . o . , ° .—
l\ew Memco. Partles W111 be Sheet N. W" Washingbn' D. C. COlllltl}, straddhng the Cont1

limited to from twenty to nental Divide.

twenty-live riders. Expedition No. 2—]uly 18 t0
Expedition No. l—July 3 to July 15. The group July 31. For those who would go exploring

following this trail will explore the Flathead— through the Wind River Wilderness of \Vyom—

Sun River \Vilderness of Montana, the land the (Continued on page 258)

 

E ..
l
C

ourtesy American Forestry Association

Skiing in the Straw

KIING is with us to
8 stay, snow or no!
Sterling Commu-
nity House in Stratford,
Connecticut, succes 5 fully
sponsored a novel ski
course last season on an
ingenious hill. Novices be-
came experts and enjoyed
themselves through a ten—
week period of actual downhill and cross-country
skiing without the aid of one snow flake.

Dry skiing is not new, although the term may
be strange to thousands who annually pack them-
selves off by rail and auto to snow-powdered hills
and valleys. In ski-minded countries on the con-
tinent, early September finds toddling youngsters
and their grandparents eagerly strapping on
waxed boards for pre-season ski training. And
about this time our enterprising stores are setting
up indoor slides and importing foreign stars to
instruct trim stenographers and corpulent trades-

Don't wait for winter; do your ski-
ing in July! And why worry about
snow when straw will do the trick?

By E. STANLEY STARZYK

Industrial Recreation Counselor
Bridgeport, Connecticut

men in the technique of
recklessly plunging down-
hill on wooden feet.
Unfortunately, an in-
door slide and the personal
attention of a Tyrolean
mountaineer are not acces—
sible to everyone. This par-
tial handicap to good and
enjoyable skiing needn’t
discourage anyone from the idea of becoming a
slalom champion or j ust. a good cross-country ski-
hiker. You can accomplish as much and possibly
more by adopting the Yankee Technique—inven—
tion to fit circumstance whether you live near
the pine-scented hills of New England or the sand

 

.dunes of Texas. Dry skiing is universal.

The sudden popularity of skiing precluded
usual economical methods of education in funda-
mentals. Paradoxically, skiing has attracted nu-
merous non-athletic types and former physical
recreation participants who for years have limited

 

222

 

SKIING IN THE STRAW 223

their exercises to climbing three flights of stairs
four times a day. Thousands of youngsters have
taken to the jumps with very little, if any, pre-
liminary training to prepare themselves satisfac-
torily for the bumps. The writer happens to have
been a sporting goods salesman for the past dec—
ade and has equipped the young and old, begin-
ner and veteran, with equipment for their chosen
pastimes. First hand observations determined the
need for an economical method of dry skiing that
would enable everyone who so desired to partici-
pate. Thus was born the Yankee Technique.

Before continuing, an explanation of the terms .

“dry course” and “dry skiing” is obligatory. The
former is accepted to mean a graduated series of
muscle-training exercises similar to your daily
dozen but specifically planned to strengthen the
muscles used in making those fancy Christianas
and daring Gelandesprungs. The latter includes
this fine conditioning method plus actual skiing
on sand, borax, fiber strips, salt, pine needles. rope
or straw.

The Sterling House Experiment

The Sterling House enterprise Was planned by
the writer with the assistance of Executive Secre-
tary Lawrence VVoodbury, and Casey Jones of
the Eastern Professional Ski Association. A limited
budget required diligent research and considerable
experimentation. Costs, local terrain, probable
weather conditions, materials, and results had to
be pre—determined and actual skiing possibilities
proven to prevent accident or disappointment. For
these and many other reasons straw was selected
as the substitute for snow.

The only slope in Sterling Park measured twen—
ty-two feet in length and had about a fifteen-
degree drop with a large level surface below, lo-
cated between two tennis courts but ample for
class exercises and runéoffs. The height from top
to bottom measured less than thirteen feet, hardly
enough to produce the speed necessary to make
any turn.

To add to the height and length of this “hill” a
platform was constructed from a picnic table, a.
discarded table tennis top, two old barn doors,
three wooden horses, several two-by—sixes and a
couple pounds of assorted nails. The table tennis
top and one door were placed end to end on top
of the framework of horses and planks at an angle
to be in a straight line with the slant of the slope,
lengthening the hill to forty feet from the top of
the wooden runway to the level lawn surface. The

height was increased to eighteen feet. The other
barn door became the platform or “take—off.” To
reach this platform, about five feet off the ground,
the picnic table was placed at an angle of fifteen
degrees in back of and connecting with the take-
off platform. Two-inch wooden strips were nailed
across this only approach to the starting platform
which, incidently, became one of the most im-
portant features of our training hill. Call it a
ski-treadmill.

To be sure of its strength, this artificial hill was
tested for sway and collapse by the combined jar-
ring efforts of its technical staff, Park Superin-
tendent Smith and his two assistants. A courag-
eous half—ton of bone and sinew jumped and
pulled with all its weight and ambition, but
couldn’t budge or buckle a timber! This is men-'
tioned to stress the importance of solidity. No
matter what materials are used or how they are
put together, be certain that the construction is
safe and able to withstand jumping starts.

A more elaborate runway can be built at little
cost, and many cities and local park and recrea-
tion boards have built ski, sled and toboggan
slides during the past few years. With slight al-
terations these can be turned into dry-skiing hills
by the addition of straw.

Now for the “snow.” The straw was hand—
picked for long stalks and these were laid on the
entire “runway” (wooden hill and take-off plat-
form) parallel to the sides and securily fastened
at one end by two-inch wooden strips nailed
across, one foot apart, giving to the hill a thatch-
ed—roof appearance. Two bales of straw were dis-
tributed by pitchfork on the grassy slope of the
hill and the lawn below, within the limits judged
necessary to restrain the speed of the skier. The
trail was now ready for use, or so we thought!

Ski—jumper Jones religiously waxed his skis with
graphite and experimentally let them slide alone
down the hill. They traveled the full distance and
more. Partly assured, our test pilot strapped on
his winged boards, and with a helpful push on
the poles plunged down a full twenty feet before
he found it necessary to resort to a spectacular
jump turn to save his neck!

“Tests with various combinations of wax and
straw cut and spread in many ways finally solved
our problem. we found that around noon the
straw on the grassy slope and level offered less
resistance, but was unsatisfactory for evening use.
Autumn frosts caused the straw to become damp
and sticky; thus, while the sun dried surface straw

224 SKIING IN THE STRAW

on the wooden runway, it never sufficiently pene-
trated the thick straw blanket on the ground, and
moisture from beneath matted this straw into a
hindering mass. Canvas on the ground, under the
straw, would have eliminated this trouble, but the
expense of covering the entire slope and run-off
level was beyond our budget. This obstacle had to
be overcome, however, because training periods
for adults were scheduled in the evenings, under
lights.

Finally, after all other methods were found
either unsatisfactory or too expensive, sand was
mixed into chopped straw and this mixture
stamped into the lawn, insulating ground mixture.
On this base more chOpped straw was spread
carefully so that it wouldn’t drift excessively on
sharp turns. By keeping surface straw in the
park barn until class time, a dry slide was as-
sured. Continued skiing built up the base, and
eventually little surface straw was necessary for
the slope and level. The thatched runway straw
was replaced when worn down with a minimum
necessary to cover the wood.

The use of graphite wax proved unsatisfactory,
and every known combination was tried before a
suitable ski-surface was found. It is especially
important for straw skiing that skis have a smooth,
highly-polished, moisture resistant running sur-
face. The following instructions will eliminate a
lot of worry and work.

First, remove every bit of old wax and clean
skis thoroughly with fine steel wool; if liquid
solvent is used. be sure the skis are dry before
next operation. Apply several thin coats of ski
lacquer (known as ski “lac” or liquid base wax).
and smooth down with steel wool between coats.
The final coat must be as smooth and bright as a
mirror. Next, rub in vigorously a thin layer of
“red” base wax until once more you can practi-
cally see your reflection in its smooth, polished
surface. Finally, rub in pure paraffin. In using a
paraffin stick you will find it produces an uneven
surface, but diligent rubbing with the palm of
your hand (from ski point towards heel) will
produce a smooth, spotless, glistening finish.

After two weeks of experiment and experience
the hill was ready. Southern Connecticut skiers
rarely become ski-conscious in mid-October, but
intelligent newspaper publicity and personal con-
tacts produced an interested, if sceptical, reSponse
from local enthusiasts.

Sterling House was filled to capacity opening
night. George Gauttinger’s “Ski Technique” in-

structive movie shorts, filmed in Switzerland for
A. G. Spalding and Brothers, literally brought
winter snows inside and stimulated the ski at-
mosphere. Casey Jones gave a running explana-
tion of the fundamentals as slow motion revealed
the secrets of good skiing. Forty applicants reg-
istered.

The course was divided into ten sessions, .one
night a week. A nominal'fee of twenty-five cents
per person each session reimbursed the athletic
committee for the purchase of straw and use of
light and materials, and also paid for professional
services.

A Ski “School” Important

At this point we earnestly advise that a quali-
fied instructor be secured to supervise construc-
tion of the hill and to conduct the “school.” Each
participant should also sign a responsibility—re-
lease statement when registering and before go-
ing on the ski grounds, to preclude law suits for
injuries or damages to personal equipment. \Ve
had no trouble, because of careful supervision;
however, no one was allowed on the ski grounds
without office approval. As an added preventive
the professional in charge should personally in-
spect all skis, poles, boots and bindings to see that
all are in proper condition. The bindings, particu—
larly, should be so fitted that skier has absolute
control of his or her skis at all times. If wax
wears down, apply more paraffin in the manner
explained, as the running surface must be fast
at all times to prevent avoidable falls.

Each session should be in four periods:

Calis’rhenics—fifteen minutes. Secure copy of
good ski instruction book containing “dry course”
of exercises. Rest five minutes before next period.

Skiing on the level—Hfteen minutes. Group for-
mations to phonograph or radio music will stimu-
late group spirit. Rest five minutes. Check ski
surface; calisthenics and level skiing may have
worn down the running surface.

_Uphi|| and downhill skiing—one to two hours,
depending on number participating. Side step. up
the cleaterl approach to starting platform; do not
use runway for climbing. After several trips up
the treadmill each session you’ll disdain the use
of ski-tows!

Social and rest period—inside. Review eve-
ning’s accomplishments. This is a good time to

(Continued on page 258)

 

IRACLES STILL HAPPEN. Perhaps they have
M experienced a renascence together with

Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, the Big
Bad W’olf, and that return to phantasy that marks
our absorption over Charlie McCarthy! In any
event, recently we saw a wonder and a miracle in
Oak Park when the community doubled our state
recreation tax bill, increasing the present rate of
two—thirds of a mill to one and one—third mills. In
dollars and cents this will mean that instead of
having $27,000 to maintain and operate our five
municipal playgrounds, there will be available ap—
proximately $54,000.

Before the campaign was launched we had
reached the end of our rope financially. Owing to
the fall in the valuation of property we were
operating on about half of our former budget.
Our staff had been cut down, and we had been
unable to buy any apparatus or new equipment or
properly renovate our play centers. There seemed
only one thing left to do—-to try to secure an
amendment in Springfield increasing the recreation
state levy. The Playground Board made this de-

You Can Do It!

By

JOSEPHINE BLACKSTOCK

Director of Playgrounds
Oak Park. Illinois

Since the culmination of the Play-
ground Board's successfulcampaign
for increased funds for Oak Park's
playgrounds. so many requests for

information and help have reached
the Board that Miss Blackstock has

prepared this statement regarding
the set-up of the campaign. It is
her hope that the information will
be of help to other recreation sys-
tems. "We certainly learned much

during the campaign. so we are in-
cluding both 'do's and don't's.' "

cision—made it and immediately ran into opposi—
tion. Our representative felt that the bill would
have small chance to pass, owing to financial con-
ditions, and that if it did succeed in the House the
Senate would kill it. However, we persevered.
We selected this particular legislator as our first
test case and proceeded to inoculate him with a
powerful shot of “rec'reationitis”! It worked. He
promised to speak to the Governor. The Gover—
nor eXpressed himself as unopposed to the bill
provided a referendum vote was attached. We
were only too glad to attach it because we felt the
election would afford us a chance to discover what
was the unbiased reaction of the 70,000 citizens
of Oak Park to our playground program.

The bill carried with one dissenting vote in the
House and none in the Senate. And then came
the real struggle. After a number of conferences
the Playground Board decided that no intensive
campaign would be undertaken until about six
weeks before the election, the Board being advised
to do this so that no time would be provided for
any organized opposition. Then we would apply

225

226 YOU CAN DO IT!

to the struggle every possible effort. It was as
well we did make this latter decision because we
found we had just one enemy—but he was a
strong one—Old Man Depression!

If there is any one piece of advice we could
give it is this:

Waging a Campaign of Facts

Leave no stone unturned in informing the com-
munity of the facts. Because it was a campaign
of facts. We found we had to tell people about
our financial condition, our curtailed staff, our
play centers’ need of repair. When we told them
they believed us. And why? We think for this
reason: we had a good talking point; we had
something to show them—the attendance of half
a million children during the year; major events
which drew thousands of people at each per-
formance.

If we had not been able to show our citizens
definite accomplishment, and had not had a Play-
ground Board that gave willingly and tirelessly of
its time——the Chairman, Dr. H.  Stewart, alone
made a dozen addresses—wwe doubt whether we
would have been able to gain our end. If, too, we
had not previously made friends with practically
every large civic and patriotic group through co-
operation in programs, we would have had rough
going. But we had for five years put on a chil-
dren’s program for the American Legion on July
Fourth, reaching an audience of some 20,000; our
Aviation School had the sponsorship of the Ki-

wanis Club; we had given talks and programs be- I

fore the Rotary, Lions, and Optimists clubs; we
had three adult-clubs in connection with the play-
grounds whose members volunteered to see that
the group as a body voted for the amendment; we
had convinced our two newspapers that we were
doing a community service and had secured a
statement from the editor of the leading periodi-
cal to the effect that the parks and playgrounds
gave a greater return for the money expended
than any other community group. We drew a
conclusion from this: one cannot afford to have
an enemy if one is in a public position; it is far
too costly a luxury!

We had as one of our most important assets
the backing of the newspapers. We wrote weekly
articles and illustrated them with activity pictures;
we persuaded some of the most influential citizens
of Oak Park to write to the papers favoring the
amendment; we were given generous space in the
Chicago newspapers; a women’s organization,

Zonta International, voluntarily endorsed our
measure and thereupon some ten other civic clubs
followed suit.

And Then We Talked!
Then we talked. We talked to everyone we

.met, individually as well as collectively. If we

couldn’t have twenty minutes, we took live. We
reached practically every Parent—Teacher, civic
and patriotic group in Oak Park. We stressed
just four points: Safety; juvenile delinquency
(just at this time the Chicago newspapers were
full of stories of youthful criminals); character-
building, and the holdover interest of activities
and hobbies for adults. We 'mentioned the matter
of low salaries only once, then we gave it up; we
found it was poor psychology. People were more
interested in what the amendment would give
their children than they were in the inadequate
salaries of the staff.

We capitalized on the fact that we had learned
that Oak Park was exceptionally recreation-
minded through a community-wide contest this
spring. Rotary Club, borrowing the idea from
Atlantic Monthly, had sponsored the contest to
find suggestions for bettering the civic life of Oak
Park, and of the eighty papers submitted twenty
contained suggestions on some phase of recreation.

We persuaded the ministers of some of the larg-
est churches to endorse the measure from their
pulpits three days before the election, and this
was a tremendous help. We made use of the
arguments of outsiders; they were apt to be
fresher and more detached than ours. One lawyer
said: “You don’t have to sell us to recreation. We
know that playgrounds actually reduce our taxes.
It is much cheaper to pay a few cents for play-
grounds than it is to pay thousands to support
young criminals in prison.” A clergyman made
this statement: “I don’t see how your bill can fail.
If Oak Park parents deny themselves in giving
their children every educational opportunity and
every kind of luxury, how could they refuse them
a few cents for anything as important as rec-
reation ?”

We used one modern method of publicity; our
aviation instructor flew low over the polling places
and dropped handbills urging people to vote for
the measure. We distributed handbills addressed
to the parents on the playgrounds, and gave them
to the children in the schools in the vicinities of
the playgrounds. We addressed more than six

(Continued on page 2.59)

uSo You're Going" Down Romany Road

LARA LAUGHLIN’S many de—
C lightful travel books were

the inspiration for the title of
a vacation reading project—“So
You’re Going” Down Romany Road l—sponsored
by the Public Library of Vincennes, Indiana. It
was a comprehensive world tour which lasted

fifty-eight days with visits to many countries at '

the remarkable price of a library card and the de-
sire to spend a worthwhile vacation by reading at
least ten books.

Since modern invention is fast taking the ro-
mance out of everything, children of today have
little knowledge of the gay gypsy caravans of long
ago, the wagon house on wheels with its brightly
colored curtains, tinkling bells and smoke curling
from the chimney. Little is known of these strange
romantic people with their
picturesque history to whom

By JANE KITCHELL
Librarian. Public Library

Vincennes. Indiana

King Richard and Queen Carolyn arrive at
Harrison Park for the coronation ceremony

we are indebted for the first fairy
tales as they sang and danced their
way down through the ages.

_ Jiggity jog, off they went, no
more lessons, no’more school, with a horse to
drive over the gypsy trail and back again! The
patrin made of grass, leaves and sticks, the sign
of wisdom gypsies leave for the next caravan, led
to many new adventures in which the boys and
girls encountered Robin Hood, Sir Galahad, King
Arthur, the Forty Thieves and many other cele-
brated characters. The project was launched with
“ye olde time” gypsy caravan moving over the
downtown streets at sunset. There were strolling
musicians and accordion players, followed by two
horse-drawn gypsy wagons. Dogs, tambourines
and colorful costumes added to the picture as
the happy children with
bundles tied in gay bandan-

 

228 “50 YOU’RE GOING” DOWN ROMANY ROAD

nas arrived at the Court House just as the old
clock chimed out the hour of seven. '

The parade served as a means not only of cre-
ating an interest in books but of educating par-
ents as to what is being done with the taxpayers’
money. There are always people who do not read
but whose attention is held by a panorama.

The children made a patrin during the course
of the parade which interpreted read, “Hurry
along, good camp ahead.” In this case the camp
was the Public Library where the gypsies had
been given the privilege of camping for the
summer.

The caravan was divided into four tribes named
in honor of some gypsy chief: Grades 1—2, “Jo
Boy”; 3H4, “Murdo”; 5—6, “Petru,” and 7—8,
“Lucu.” Grades I and 2 displayed much in—
terest from the fact they had learned of Jo Boy
in their school work and knew he had been a
gypsy baby. A colorful gypsy wagon, seven feet
high, made from beaver board, was placed in the
children’s room, the walls cov-
ered with posters of gypsy sym-
bols, and gaily colored charm
strings draping the windows.
.For each book read the child
placed a bead,“"and '-the various
tribes vied with each other for
the honor of creating the largest
string. '3

Chiefs janflf'outstanding gypsies, selected each

&' 3-
u'

week froiiiithe best book reports of each tribe and
the Iaiigest number of books read, presided over
the Saturday morning camp fire which was in-
formative as well as entertainipg, for the children
were instructed in gypsy lore, fact and fiction; in
gypsy wisdom, folk tales, customs, music and
vocabulary, and in gypsy symbols going back to

the beginning of religion and superstitution. “Lit;

tle Gypsy Sweetheart” was the theme song. The
words were thrown on the screen and well-known
books were shown with the lantern. There were
two very delightful camp fires which the children
will long remember when two fathers entertained
the children.

One of the fathers, well versed in magic, waved
his wand and thrilled the children with many
strange feats.‘As a grand finale, he built a fire
in a covered dish and removed the lid to,lind
candy kisses rolling out which he threw to his
audience. And he seized the opportunity through
his magic to impress upon the children the fact
that many things in life are not always what they

Among the books which were used
to good advantage in the Gypsy
Caravan projectwere the following:
"Stories of the‘Gypsies" by Berco-
vici. and ''Four Gypsy Children"
and "Gypsy Caravan" by Pease.

seem to be. The second father entertained the
children with several motion picture reels show-
ing his oWn little gypsies and school activities, in-
cluding the crowning of the May Queen. Many
of the children recognized themselves in the film.

The King and Queen Are Crowned

At the end of ten weeks a Gypsy Patchiv (a
festival or ceremony in honor of some person or
event) was held at one of the parks. Since
gypsies do not believe in the divine right of kings
but in advancement through merit, Richard In-
man was crowned king of the gypsies for having
read more books than any other gypsy, and Caro-
lyn Cooper their queen. It was a colorful cere-
mony. Chiefs, pretenders to the throne, and other
gypsies of merit and distinction arrived long be-
fore the hour of coronation. With great expec—
tancy they awaited the arrival of their majesties,
proving that real kings and queens are just as in-
teresting as those who live in fairy tales!

Suddenly through the gate
came the royal coach, not of
glass and gold, but a rare old
horse and wagon. The crowds
cheered, and amid cries of
“Long live the king!” and
“Long live the queen!” their
majesties were escorted to the
throne. Not to be outdone by English tradition, the
stone steps of the band stand served as the “stone
of destiny” which is beneath the throne on which

' every English king sits to be crowned. The cere-

mony was impressive. The young king, seven years
old, promised to be a true king, to serve his people,
fight their battles and loan them money. Then the
queen was crowned while the children shouted,
“May the king live forever!” Since every corona—
tion has a banquét, King Richard’s first official act
was to declare a feast of “hot dogs,” while Queen
Carolyn promised, through the reading of the
stars, to guide them so that peace and contentment
would follow them in all their wanderings.

 Book Therapy 2 ‘

The‘ project was carried irith the hospital. One
of the girls, always an «enthusiastic participant in
all vacation projects, was “strickengwith appendi-
citis just as the caravan started. ontits journey.
As soon as she was able, she registered for the trip,
read some of the books while still in the hospital,

sending her reports to the library. A little lad of
(Continued on}ch 260)

 

Archery in the Recreation Program

T IS GENERALLY agreed that
I any sport suitable for the
recreation program must
meet certain requirements. It
should have a high carry—over
value. It must be moderately in-
expensive. It must be readily
adaptable to almost any group,
size or play space. It must place
little or no premium on indi-
vidual muscular or mental abil-
ity, and, above all, it must be
fun!

W. A. Kearns, in an article
in the October 1937 issue of RECREATION on
“Sports Carry-Over in the Home Recreation
Program,” has defined the carry-over of a sport
as “its utility in later home and private life.”
From the following true story of a typical family
of archers, let each reader judge to his own sat-
isfaction Whether this example does not picture a

sport that really has “utility in home and private
life.”

The Story of the Jones Family

It is a dreary Saturday afternoon in winter.
The weather is by no means an invitation to out—

door activity. This would be a dull afternoon for ‘

the Jones family had not Jane introduced archery
into her home. She had learned the art of shoot-
ing the bow and arrow in an archery class spon-
sored by the local recreation department. This
was just the kind of an afternoon to furnish an
ideal setting for the family’s “downstairs cham—
pionship.” Yes, the basement archery range (it
could be the attic) is always ready for this family
of four to enjoy its hobby. “Who was the winner
of the championship?” Well, it happened to be
Dad, but it really doesn’t matter. Junior is down
there practicing Sunday morning before church.
“Watch out for your championship, Dad!”

Perhaps the enthusiasm of last SatUrday Will
carry over to the next rainy day when some of
the neighbors will be invited in for the “shoot.”
It doesn’t have to be a tournament, of course.
The practice will help all of the archers in their
next Monday’s club meeting in the high school
gym. It’s a weekly event you know.

By MYRTLE K. MILLER
New York City

Mrs. Miller' international archery
championl has had long experience
in teaching the fundamentals of
the sport. It is her firm conviction
that with the rapid growth and in-
creasing popularity of archery we
must, sooner or later. realize that
it has a definite place in the rec-
reation program' and she con-
ceives of it as a sport for the en-
tire family to enjoy together.

Time passes and this is the
first warm day of spring. The
Jones family is anxious to get
out on the backyard range to
try 'out improvements in form
developed in winter shooting.
The distances are not regula-
tion here in the backyard, but
they are longer than the base—
ment or the indoor club range.
Next week the local archery
club is opening the outdoor
range, and then the shooting dis-
tances will be regulation. What

a “coming out party” that will be! Heavier bows

will be put to use and the old tournament arrows
of last summer will supplant the relics of the win-
ter season.

Again “time marches on” and brings the Jones
family to the first big day for all archers in the
town, the city championship! Father has all the
equipment ready in the hall and Junior is helping
load the car while Mother and Jane pack away
the neat bundles of picnic food in the baskets.
“Will Dad keep the city championship this year ?”
That’s important only for conversation! The
really important thing is that all are going to have
their annual good time. The arrival at the field is
the first thrill. There’s the fellow Junior had so
much fun with in the “Art Young Round” at the
National last summer. The scene is one of
friendly smiles and handshakes, “hello’s” and
“how-do-you-do’s.” Now to try to get in on a
little practice to see that the range stick is marked
correctly for the point of aim.

The next thrill comes with the starting whistle.
Noon hour is the fun hour too, a picnic with the
family and archery friends, a little rest, then back
to shooting again. The end of the day finds Dad
minus his championship but fortunate enough to
have won a set of ash trays in the novelty shoot.
After winninguhrst place in the Junior division,
Jane proudly displays her gold medal. Junior is
just as proud of his bronze one, his award for
third place. Mother is content to know her scores
hadn’t taken a slump since the last season.

Almost the same thing will happen at the state
tournament, although the drive is a little longer

229

230 ARCHERY IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM

and the meet covers a Saturday and Sunday of
shooting. But what about the national? “Can we
go this year, Dad?” “Sure!” The new family
membership plan in the National Archery Asso-
ciation has made it very easy to have the family
dues all paid up, and the “boss” knows that na-
tional tournament dates are father’s vacation
days. That is a whole week of fun. Even mother
can forget about things at home for that week and
her shooting will show it, too. She will finish
among the first twenty this year. For this tour-
nament Junior has a new bow and arrows, Jane
and Mother have new sets of arrows that Dad
finished last spring, but Dad has to be content
with his last year’s outfit because he is getting a
new set of golf clubs this year.

Why go on? Those are true archery pictures of
just one of many families. Some take in the tour-
naments. Others may confine their shooting to the
home field or perhaps just the club range. All
over the country such archery pictures are being
made because some folks have been fortunate
enough to learn about the great sport of archery.
In many cases, as in that of the Jones family, the
local recreation department is responsible for the
interest in the sport.

Many who have developed this interest in arch-
ery have adopted some one phase of the sport as
their hobby. The making of tackle in the home
workshop is a line creative hobby practiced by
many archers. Some find great pleasure in mak—
ing collections of arrowheads, old archery weap—
ons and novelties. Some valuable and_interesting
archery libraries have resulted from the hobby of
collecting books on the sport.

Considerations for the Recreation Program

In considering archery for the recreation pro—
gram, the cost of equipment is a subject of im-
portance. Archery is not the
expensive sport it is usually
judged to be. Just as in golf,
tennis or any other sport,
one may pay as little or as
much as he chooses for his
equipment. The tackle nec-
essary for a class of arch-
ers consists of bows, ar-
rows, arm guards, finger-
tabs and targets, or a baled
straw backstOp on which
paper target faces can be
mounted. If equipment is

"Archery has had its ups and downs. . .With
the coming of the firearm to our European ,
forefathers in comparatively recent times, idea]_ The field does not 3
the bow was retired to the realm of sport.
In this capacity it has sporadically inter-
ested groups in various parts of the civil-
ized world. but it has not flourished to
the extent of many other sports. And now
again archery is having its 'ups.' Along
with the revival of interest in all sports of
the individual type, it is being used by a
fast-increasing number of men. women
and children as an absorbing leisure time
activity." — Reichatt
M odem Methods in Archery.

given the proper care there is very little breakage,
hence little or no expense for upkeep. The same
sets of equipment can be used by any number of
classes, a large number thus being accommodated
by a small investment. It is interesting to note
that many people who learn to shoot archery
want to purchase their own equipment soon after
they have had their lessons.

In suggesting archery for the recreation pro-
gram, a proper question is: “How large a group
can be accommodated in an archery class at one
time?” The answer, of course, depends largely
upon the set-up. If the space is large enough for
a class of forty in any other activity, it is large
enough for a class of forty in archery. This does
not mean forty archers will be shooting at one
time, but by using the “buddy”system that number
can be kept well occupied. In this plan the class
is divided into pairs, one half shooting while the
other half is coaching, analyzing, or studying the
form of those shooting. It is even possible to
divide the class into three’s if there is a shortage
of equipment, two observing and discussing the -
shooting technique used by the third.

In as much as archery can be adapted to the in-
door or outdoor program, it serves as an excel—
lent year-round activity. In the indoor program,
if sixteen-inch target faces are mounted on a
baled straw backstop, roundsacan be shot using
feet instead of yards for the shooting range, since
the sixteen-inch target is one-third the size of the
regulation target. ,

On an outdoor range, the important things to '
remembers are these: The grounds must be free
from rocks, stones and other hard objects which
would tend to injure the arrows that miss the
target. All possibility of passers—by Walking be-
hind the targets must be eliminated. A space of
about ten yards behind the target should be made
to catch the wild arrows. A
bank to catch the missing :
arrows would, of course, be i

need to be wide, but should
be at least sixty yards in
length so that the official
rounds can be shot. The one
most commonly used by
both men and women is the
American Round which
consists of shooting thirty
arrows at sixty, fifty, and

and Keasey in h
forty yards. For beginning

ARCHERY IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM 231

classes, a field thirty
yards in length is am-
ple space since novices
begin shooting at a very
close range from as
short a distance as ten
yards, gradually increas-
ing the distance as the
class improves.

From statistics given
in Glen 0. Grant’s ar-
ticle in the October
1937, issue of RECREA-
TION, we learn that
archery is one of the
two sports of equal in-
terest to boys and girls.
In tournament partici-
pation we find a few
more men competing
than women, but in,local
club memberships we
find the sport equally
attractive to men and
women, a fact which
offers excellent possi-
bilities for archery as
an activity for mixed
recreational groups.

An important reason for including archery in
the recreation program is supported by the fact
that it is adaptable to the physical needs of every
individual. This is accomplished by proper selec-
tion of equipment. It is possible to procure bows
ranging from fifteen pounds to forty—live or fifty
pounds for target shooting. Everyone learning to
shoot archery should use a light bow until his
shooting technique becomes somewhat automatic.
After this one can gradually work into a heavier
bow until he finds the weight of bow which he
particularly chooses to use. The individual who
is not physically able to indulge in strenuous ac-
tivity can continue using a very light bow, from
fifteen pounds to eighteen pounds pull. The more
athletic type may pull as heavy a bow as he feels
able, maintaining good shooting form. The aver-
age woman pulls from twenty-two to thirty—five
pounds; the average man from thirty to fifty.

Many physically handicapped people who have
been unable to indulge in any other active sport
have found archery the answer to their needs.
On the other hand, the athletic type of man also
finds archery the answer to his needs, for after

 

Russ Hoogerhyde, for five yearsI national
archery champion, and a group of admirers

pulling a heavy bow
through a round he feels
the stimulating results
of the exercise and the
mental refreshment of
the recreation.

It has been estimated
that the average man
shooting through a sin-
gle York Round, 72 ar—
rows at 100 yards, 48
arrows at 80 yards, and
24 arrows at 60 yards,
has actually lifted from
three and one-half to
five tons of weight.
During the 1930 na-
tional archery tourna-
ment, Russ Hooger-
hyde, national archery
champion, pulled over
seventeen tons of
weight.

Shooting the bow and
arrow is, by all means,
fun. But a most impor-
tant fact to remember
in achieving this end is
that the leader or in-
structor must have full knowledge of the sport
and the technique of shooting. This is all im-
portant, for if wrong methods of shooting are pre—
sented the purpose is defeated. Instead of ex-
periencing the great enthusiasm resulting from
good teaching methods, the beginner becomes dis-
couraged and in most cases will not enjoy con-
tinued practice of, the sport. If correct shooting
technique is presented, the class will have fun!
Man seems to possess an innate love for the bow
and arrow, and to be able to hit the target does
give real joy.

In considering seriously the recreational possi-
bilities of archery and its constructive contribu—
tion in group and individual activity, the inevita-
ble conclusion is reached that archery should en-
joy a well-defined place in any balanced recrea-
tion program affording proper facilities for boys
and girls, men and women.

A School of Archery for archers and school and
camp instructors was scheduled to be held June
22-28, 1938, at Roxbury, Vermont.

A Call to the Recreation Congress

goes on. Food and shelter—yes. But that is
only the beginning of life. \Vhat comes after
is living.

What are the people in your community doing
to live? Have you provided places for the chil—
dren to play? Are their pleas—where can I go,
what can I do~——answered? Are your youth liv—
ing adventurously and facing life hopefully be—
cause of happy hours learning and practicing the
innumerable latent skills? What of your men and
women? Is life passing them by? Do they go
from day to day stirred by the varied possibili-
ties of human satisfaction?

Fortunately for many people in our nation this
chance to live is being realized. Public—spirited
citizens are giving time freely on boards and com—
missions whose task are to provide for richer liv—
ing. Hundreds of progressive communities,
urban and rural, have employed trained lead—
ers to make this provision more effective
and far-reaching. Public officials are appro-
priating funds and individuals are donating
lands and buildings. Committees are work—
ing, groups are studying, schools are train-
ing for leisure. Special needs of boys and
girls are being faced. Human skills that are
the heritage of the ages-“music, drama, arts
and crafts, sports, games, gardening—are
being made available.

ALL OVER AMERICA search for the good life

In city and in country, in public and in
_)rivate agencies, this search for the good life
:hrough recreation goes on. These efforts
1re being unified. Gathering under the ban-
1er of recreation, the forces for vital living
lI'C surging forward. The questions upper-

most are not so much Why and What and
.V hen, but How.

If you are or would like to be a part of
his great and growing unified national rec-
'eation movement for effective living in
\merica, come to Pittsburgh in October.
:ome to the National Recreation Congress.
{ealize anew that you are not working
lone. Bring your questions, share your ex-
ICI'iL’l'iCCS. Stand up and be counted among
he leaders dedicated to the task of seeing
hat through recreation life in our democ—

32

racy can and will be a rich, stirring and joyous
experience.

An alert local arrangements committee in Pitts—
burgh is preparing for the coming of the Con-
gress. Adequate hotel accommodations, excellent
meeting facilities, the geographical location of
Pittsburgh and the nature of the issues before
the recreation movement today indicate that this
Twenty—Third National Recreation Congress will
be a most significant event in the progress of
recreation.

Listed here are the topics chosen this year for
group discussions. Later further information and
data will be sent to all who send word that they
are coming. This material will enable each one to
come better prepared to contribute to a vital dis-
cussion of these and other questions
to be faced.

 

A view of the city
the Twenty-Third Né

Pittsburgh, Pa., October 3-7, |938

The program committee for the general ses-
sions promises a series of inspiring and helpful
messages on fundamental problems facing recrea-
tion in America. _

There will be opportunities to study exhibits,
see films of recreation programs, hold individual
and small group conferences on special problems,
see old friends, and meet new ones. Time will be
set aside so that we may practice what we preach.
Yes, we too, will play at the Pittsburgh Congress.

‘It looks like a full, joyous week of working and
playing together. We hope you will be with us.

Topics for Discussion at the Section Meetings

How shall we build sound, city-wide recreation
programs ?

What are the effective steps in hnanc-
ing growing facilities and programs ?

be the host of
ration Congress

 

How to secure the cooperation of all agencies
concerned in a community-wide recreation pro--
gram.

The public school building—the people’s ma—
jor unused recreation asset. How shall its use be
secured and directed?

Recreation in industrial plants and business
Offices.

How can we deve10p more fully the recreation
possibilities in family life?

How can educators and recreation executives
more effectively train leaders for the recreation
profession?

The interpretation of recreation—a clinic on
written reports.

In what ways can board members better serve
the recreation movement?

Report of the Committee on Standards of
Training, Experience and Compensation in
Community Recreation Work.

How are the special problems of serving
the recreation needs of rural folks being
met?

How can the vast resources of volunteer
service be related to recreation?

Women and girls in a recreation program
—their special needs and methods of meet-
ing them.

Co-recreation and successful ways of pro—
moting it.

How can recreation departments help to
meet camping needs of the pe0ple?

The church recreation program.

How can the physical equipment of the
recreation movement—“areas and buildings——
be more adequately planned and maintained?

Recreation problems of smaller cities—ap—
proximately 5,000 to 30,000 population.

Extending the possibilities of amateur
drama. '

Music for the enrichment of life.

Methods of inaugurating and directing
nature programs.

Methods for starting and developing gar-
dening as recreation for children and adults.

How can we more effectively utilize arts
and crafts in meeting recreation needs?

Pet show a free for all release of new
and pet ideas. '

 

2 3 3

 

Courtesy Cycle Trade: of America, Incorporated

The Wheels 60 Round and Round

ROM ALL PARTS of the country comes news of
F the organization, under the auspices of rec—
reation departments and similar groups, of
bicycle clubs—groups of merry adventurers or—
ganized, in the words’of the Lansing, Michigan,
Bicycle Club, “to promote riding for pleasure, for
adventure and active recreation.”

There are other objectives stated by this club,
for safety is a primary consideration in bicycling,
and so the objectives continue, “to study and ac-
tively promote better traffic laws and regulations;
to abide by and assist in the enforcement of pres-
ent laws; to assist and protect the younger rid-
ers.” Finally comes the all-inclusive objective——
“to keep the wheels going round and round.”

And “round and round” they go in all parts of
the country! In Framingham, Massachusetts, the
Recreation Division of the Park Department is
sponsoring two clubs, one for boys, “The Rov—
ers,” and another for girls, known as “The Yellow
Jackets.” The girls, working in cooperation with
the sewing classes, have made uniforms consist—
ing of yellow jackets and brown shorts which
have created much favorable comment.

Each club in Framingham has its own officers
consisting of president, vice-president, secretary
and scribe, with an adviser from the personnel of

234

the Recreation Division. Regular meetings are
held and trips to points of interest made weekly.
Some of the places visited have included Henry
Ford’s Wayside Inn, Hood’s Dairy, a farm in
Wayland, Lake Masponoch in Holliston, and his—
toric Concord. On these trips the starting time
was set at 9:00 o’clock; the return at 3 :30.
Lunches were packed and often dinners were
cooked over an open fire. An automobile accom-
panied clubs on all these field trips, the car being
equipped with a large sign carrying the following
inscription: “Motorists please drive with care—
bicycle club ahead.” The car also carried a com-
plete first aid kit, bicycle repair kit, a pump and
other tools. It was also available for transporta—
tion for any club member unfortunate enough to
break down While on the journey.

The process of organizing the clubs was sim-
plified by the adequate use of publicity. Stories
were published telling of the program planned

and the objectives sought. The pledge, too, was
published.

Organizing a Club

Suggestions on organization are offered by the
Cycle Trades of America, Incorporated, which
urges the appointment of a membership commit-

THE WHEELS GO ROUND AND ROUND 235

tee not only to obtain members, but to make sure
that the club is made up of congenial people.

The Cycle Trades of America has suggested the
following constitution:

Article I. The name of the club shall be . . . . . ..

Article ll. The object of the club shall be to
promote Bicycle Riding.

Article III. Anyone who owns and rides a bi-
cycle is eligible to membership.

Article IV. Club dues (if any) payable monthly
to the Treasurer.

Article V. The duties of the President are to
preside at meetings and direct the proceedings.
The Captain commands all club runs, while the
Lieutenants assist him in keeping the runs in
order. The Captain also presides at meetings in
the absence of the President. The Secretary-
Treasurer keeps a roll of the members, takes care
of all money and collects all the dues; notifies the
members of dates of meetings and club runs, and
keeps a record of the meetings and runs.

Article VI. The club shall hold club runs or other
events at the call or discretion of the Captain,
acting in conference with the members.

Article VII. The club shall have regular busi-
ness meetings for transaction of club business.
election of new members, etc., every . . . . . . . . ..
Special meetings may be called by the President.

Article VIII. The order of business at business
meetings shall be:

Reading of minutes of last meeting

Roll call

Report of officers and committees
Unfinished business

Proposal and election of new members

New business

Announcement of runs, special meetings, etc.

When you have obtained enough members to
start—-—say ten or more—you should then hold an
organization meeting and appoint a temporary
Chairman to direct the proceedings until the elec-
tion of officers. There should be a President.
Captain, First and Second Lieutenants, and a Sec-
retary-Treasurer; all to be elected either verbally
or by ballot, and to hold office for six months or
a year.

Special Events

There are many special events which add to
the fun of bicycling. A field day, for example,
with games and races, creates much interest.

Such a day usually starts with a parade of con-
testants and finishes with the races which should
be held on straightaways that have been roped
off for protection.

The games may include among others the fol-
lowing:

Planlc Ride. Planks usually about four inches
wide are laid on the ground continuously for some
distance and a prize given to whomever can ride
straight enough to stay on the planks without rid-
ing onto the ground.

Gym Kana. In this race various obstacles are
used—dismounting and getting under a rail fence,
and riding over a narrow teeter board that should
not be built too high to prevent injurious falls.

Bicycle Potato Race. This is run off in the same
way as the usual potato race and always creates
interest.

Hare and Hounds Chase. This is good fun. The
“Hares,” under the leadership of a rider well
versed in the mazes of near-by lanes, mark a
winding, twisting trail which will baffle and con-
fuse the group of riders known as “Hounds” who
are following. The course need not be more than
five or ten miles in length, but if it is a tangle of
crisscrossing trails it will keep the Hounds busy
for several hours. The trail should be marked by
sprinkling at all turns in the course either paper

confetti or some white substance such as pulver-
ized chalk.

Other events may include breakfast rides,
“splash” rides, picnic rides, overnight camping
trips and similar events.

The Reading, Pennsylvania, Bicycle Club mim-
eographs its schedules and sends them to all active
members. Postcards are sent out announcing spe-
cial events for which members are asked to regis-
ter. There are no dues connected with Reading’s
club. When expense is incurred it is divided
among the group.

Safety Precautions All Important!

As has been suggested, safety is a primary con-
sideration, and all possible safeguards must be
provided and careful organization effected.

With the safety of club members always fore-
most in the minds of the officials of the Framing-
ham Recreation Division, weekly inspections were
held when checks were made on lights, brakes,
pedals, tires and other essential fixtures of a bi-
cycle. Any defects found had to be repaired be—

230 THE W'HEELS GO ROUND AND ROUND

fore the next trip. Moving pictures were shown
on highway safety and other subjects.

The Pledge. The Recreation Division has found
the pledge to be one of its most effective safety
measures. The pledge reads as follows:

1. My bicycle must be equipped with a bell.

2. I must not ride on the sidewalks.

3. My bicycle must be equipped with lights if I ride

after dark.

I will not “hitch on” to a moving vehicle.

I will obey traffic lights and intersection signs.

I will not go up one-way streets the wrong way.

I will follow all the ordinary traffic rules, including

keeping to the right hand side of the road.

I willluse signals when I want to turn in traffic.

I will not do stunt riding or carry anyone on my

handlebars while riding on the road.

10. In addition to having lights on my bicycle fOr night
riding, I will plan to wear white or yellow clothing
so that I will be plainly visible to motorists.

11. _I will keep my bicycle in good mechanical condition.

12. I will use the utmost care in approaching street in-
tersections and railroad grade crossings.

13. I will not ride alongside of another bicycle. Single

file is the rule.
14. I pledge to obey the traffic laws as faithfully as

motorists.

>395“?

>0?»

Signed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Telephone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parent or Guardian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company of
New York City in its Statistical Bulletin issued in
March 1938 comments on the increase of fatalities
among youthful cyclists and states: “The laws of
every state should require that bicycles in use at
night be equipped with a front light and tail light
or reHector, and these laws should be enforced
strictly. Bicyclists should be subject to the high-
way traffic laws. The most effective means of
preventing these accidents would be to provide

more cycling paths.”

Cycling Paths. Chicago, Illinois, has set aside
forty miles of bicycle paths, and New York City
is creating such paths in some of the parks. The
editor of the American Bicyclist and Motorcyclist
has said: “Any road good for automobiles is good
for bicycles, but it should not be the same one be-
cause of traffic problems. An attempt is being
made to secure paths along the side of roads to
accommodate bicyclists. These paths may be of
asphalt, concrete or macadam, and should be wide
enough for at least two bicycles to pass. A good
dirt road is fine except that rain makes it slippery.
The cheapest kind of road is that made by putting

down crushed stone with cinders and line crushed
stone on top. When this is rolled, it allows for

drainage and proves quite satisfactory.”

A unique feature of the Airport Play Field of
Cincinnati, Ohio, acquired in 1933 through the
transfer of a 200 acre portion of the airport and
improved through a succession of W'PA projects,
is the provision made for young bicyclers. During
1937 the Recreation Commission acquired a
quantity of bicycles to loan children not owning
them. Storage space sufficient to take care of
those desiring to park their bicycles will be made
available. Work is going forward on a system of
bicycle trails more than ten miles in length run-
ning from the Airport Play Field to the Recrea—
tion Commission’s day camp at California.

Legal Safeguards. Because of the increase in
bicycling in Oregon, the Bureau of Municipal Re-
search and Service at the University of Oregon at
Eugene, in cooperation with the League of Ore-
gon Cities, has issued a pamphlet entitled “Bi-
cycle Control in Oregon Cities” which recom-
mends the adoption of a uniform ordinance over
the state and a uniform system of bicycle regis-
tration. '

Note: The Cycle Trades of America, Incor—
porated, Chanin Building, New York City, has is-
sued some excellent posters on safety in bicycle
riding which may be secured by recreation offi-
cials and others interested on request. There is
also available from this organization a booklet
which under the title “It’s Fun to Keep Fit on a
Bicycle” suggests how to form a bicycle club, de-
scribes a number of games and special events,
tells how to ride the right way and how to keep in
condition, and gives instructions on the care of
bicycles.

A Safety Campaign. The Junior Optimist Clubs
of Milwaukee each March conduct a safety cam~
paign designed to promote safety in bicycle riding.
The week’s meeting is devoted to a discussion of
the whole problem of safe bicycling. Statistics
are gathered on the number of accidents and a
bicycle is introduced for demonstration purposes.
The policeman on the “beat” is invited to drop in
during the course of the week to tell the boys
about bicycle riding laws. Meetings are held with
speakers from the office of the Chief of Police
and the Safety Commission. Home-made posters
are displayed and every member of the Club is
urged to write an essay on “Why a Bike Safety
Campaign” and submit it to the all—city contest.

When the Civic Celebration Was Over

not even being considered as a part of the
program of the Municipal Recreation Depart-
ment of Aurora ;-six months ago it was a remote
possibility. Today the city has municipal camping
facilities valued at more than $18,000 which are
rich in atmosphere and conducive to a broad pro-
gram. And not the least amazing feature of the
entire project is the fact that these splendid fa-
cilities were made possible at a cost of only
$710.42 to the Recreation Department!
We are not saying that such an achievement is
a usual occurrence. In our city it came as the
aftermath of a civic celebration. Very often it is
only through some such special occasion that fa-
cilities out of the ordinary are secured.

TWELVE MONTHS ago a camping program was

The Idea Comes!

It happened this way in Aurora. The city held
a centennial celebration in which one of the major
projects was a pioneer village. The idea of secur-
ing the facilities for the Recreation Department
came quite by accident. It was during a confer—
ence with the Centennial Association president
that the recreation director learned of some of the
features of the forthcoming celebration. One of
them was the painting of log cabins on a canvas
background to furnish a setting for such outdoor
antique exhibits as wagons, carriages and plows.
This exhibit was scheduled to take place in one of
the parks. Because the Recreation Department
had located a suitable camping site and secured a
lease on it last winter, the idea of having a real
pioneer village was suggested to the president of
the centennial.

After a number of conferences two major dif-
ficulties emerged. They were labor and materials.
Before the Centennial Association Board would
accept the pioneer village project it was necessary
for the Recreation Department to present solu-
tions to these two problems. To this challenge the
Department made the following suggestion},

Inasmuch as the buildings were to bertlog cabins,

it should be possible to secure telegraph poles

from the railroad, in this case the Chicago,;-;'Bhgr-
lington and Quincy. Poles, ought also begféyail-
able from the Western-United Gas and-Electric
Company. Telephone poles, too, should'be readily
obtainable. It would be logical, we pointed out,

Aurora found itself, at little added
cost, the proud possessor of a munic-
ipal camp, and all because of careful
planning and cooperative action

By RUSSELL A. PERRY

Director of Recreation
Aurora. Illinois

for the Lumber Dealers Association to contribute
more to the project in the line of material than in
money. The same would be true of wrecking com-
panies. The Recreation Department, we suggested,
would make some material contributions and
the Centennial Association might purchase the
material that could not be donated. The labor
problem, it was thought, should not prove a major
item of expense to the Centennial Association.
The Carpenters’ Union, the Contractors’ Associa—
tion and other groups might be persuaded to pro-
vide the labor for certain specific buildings. Other
groups such as civic clubs, business associations
and churches would undoubtedly raise funds for
the erection of other buildings. There was, too,
the possibility of securing aid from WPA if im—
mediate action were taken.

The Project Is Accepted

The board of the Centennial Association con-
sidered the recommendations carefully and check-
ed up the various items. The results were en-
couraging. President Budd of the Burlington
Railroad was happy to cooperate and promised
from 1,200 to 1,500 poles would be available. The
utility and telephone companies promised smaller
numbers of poles. The Carpenters’ Union agreed
to construct the cabin of Sam McCarthy, founder
of Aurora. The Contractors’ Association was
willing to undertake the building of the town hall.

Encouraged by this display of enthusiasm and
cooperation, the Centennial Association accepted
the project on the ground that long after parades,
antique exhibits and night shows were forgotten
the centennial camp would persist as a reminder
of Aurora’s first hundred years.

237

238 WHEN THE CIVIC CELEBRATION WAS OVER

The next step was the appointment of the di-
rector of the Playground and Recreation Depart-
ment as chairman of the Pioneer Village Com-
mittee. Much had to be done. To arouse more
enthusiasm and interest a full page of news
stories was published in the local daily paper.
These stories included comments by Dr. William
G. Vinal, by the director of playgrounds, the
president of the Centennial Association, the Boy
Scout executive, the Aurora historian and other
well known civic leaders. A draftsman laid out
the village in a way which would adapt it best to
a camping program. The plans included cabins,
ground layout, water, light andtoilet facilities.

Difficulties Are Overcome

Despite careful planning numerous problems of
an emergency nature developed. A section of the
island in the village square remained swampy
after the low water level had been reached. It was
impossible to secure Federal aid through W’PA
because of lack of time. After several sleepless
nights the problem was solved by a promise from
the Western-Austin Manufacturing Company to
loan a motor grader for the purpose of re-grad-
ing the village square. For nearly two weeks the
motor grader moved earth from high parts of the
island filling in the swampy areas. This did not
completely solve the dichulty which was finally
taken care of by the digging of a drainage ditch
which appeared as a little brook passing through
the village commons. The drainage ditch was
dredged by a drag line which was also furnished
without charge by the Western—Austin Manu-
facturing Company.

 

Another local firm, Barber and Greene, came to
the rescue by furnishing equipment for the dig-
ging of 2,000 feet of trenches for water lines and
a loader for loading gravel which was used on all
the village roads and walkways. The local Truck-
ers Association furnished a fleet of trucks and
drivers without charge to haul the gravel from
the city gravel pit to the village. Township trucks

also helped in this work.

Another unforeseen situation developed with
the construction of stockade type cabins in which
the logs are set vertically instead of horizontally.
It was found that the usual method of chinking
with mortar would be unsatisfactory. After con—
siderable experimenting boiler insulation material
was miXed with 30 per cent cement by weight and
water and was used to Chink the stockade type
cabins. When dry the insulation material became
very hard and did. not shrink away from the logs.

These problems are cited to show what may
develop in a project of this type in spite of care—
ful planning. They are the more serious because
a project of this kind must be completed in a
short time.

Now that Aurora has its municipal camp it is
interesting to look back and study the attitude
which prevailed during the construction of the
village. In the beginning only a small group caught
the enthusiasm necessary to make such an under-
taking a success. This may have been due to the
fact that those in charge had thought so far ahead
that in imbuing others with their enthusiasm they
failed to start from the beginning and to build
gradually a firm foundation.

The spirit needed for the success of the project
dwindled during the first six
weeks. Those in charge began to
worry for fear the village might
prove too large a ventUre to un—
dertake without unlimited finan-
cial backing. In the middle of the
construction period there was. a
slight pick-up in enthusiasm
which continued to grow in mo—
mentum and speed until in the
last few days before the opening 

Replica of the cabin ot the found—
er of Aurora. Sam McCarthy. which
will be used as the camp master's
cabin during the camping season

WHEN THE CIVIC CELEBRATION WAS OVER 239

.---. i v

of the Village it I in   
seemed as though ‘
individuals and
organizations
c o u l d n o t d o
enough to help!
Groups which had ‘ V
failed to respond
during the early
planning period
jumped into ac-
tion and insisted
on imaking addi-
tions to the origi-
nal plan. The Kiwanis Club built a town well;
foot bridges were constructed by the Lions or-
ganization; the Bell Telephone Company erected
a flag pole, and many other touches were added.

\Vith only five days left before the grand open-
ing, those in charge were faced with the problem
of obtaining toilet facilities. We approached the
public-spirited owner of a plumbing concern who,
sharing the general enthusiasm, volunteered to
bring other plumbers into the project. The result
was the construction of toilet facilities sufficient to
accommodate the large numbers using the ‘camp.

Another emergency which arose the closing
days of the construction period was the comple-
tion of the electric wiring necessary to light the
village commons, the approach road and the walk-
way to the toilets. An appeal to the officials of
the \vVestern-United Gas and Electric Company
brought five truck loads of linemen to the village
at four o’clock. They completed the necessary
wiring by dark.

The splendid spirit shown by all the groups
participating in the construction of the village was
notable. All the individuals approached their work
as though it were play. The linemen, in spite of
the fact that they had already worked for eight
hours, laughed and joked throughout their volun-
teer wiring job. They had been requested to help

in the project and not a single man refused the
request.

a I "_
‘i i
.

m ‘ '
W”&~--

The Facilities

In spite of the setback and unforeseen happen-
ings, the village opened on schedule. It was made
up of a blacksmith shop, a general store, the cabin
of Sam McCarthy, the city’s founder, twin dwell-
ing cabins, a single cabin, a trading post, a school-
house, a town hall and a church. When camping
time rolls around next season the blacksmith shop

 

View of one side of the square showing four of
the nine buildings. The well in the foreground
is equipped with four bubbler drinking fountains

will become a camp kitchen; the trading post, the
dining hall. The McCarthy cabin will be the camp
master’s quarters; the twin cabins, schoolhouse
and the single cabin will provide living quarters
for overnight campers. The town hall will be
converted into an assembly building and will house
activities during stormy weather. The church will
be kept as a church to remind the campers of the
spiritual aspects of camping and nature study.
Two permanent structures built for concession
stands were constructed for the celebration. These
will remain as shelters for quiet games during
rest periods. The buildings were made large
enough to meet the special requirements of the
camping program. The camp kitchen, for ex-
ample, is a 16 by 16 foot building conveniently
located at the end of the service entrance with
sufficient door and window space to permit of the
best possible workingconditions. The dining hall,
a 20 by 40 foot cabin, is located 15 feet from the
kitchen to allow the construction of a screened
passageway between the two buildings which will
afford protection to the food while it is being
brought into the dining hall. Other buildings are
spaced 25 feet apart. When the water line was
laid provision was made to tap in for the water
necessary in the camp kitchen. The camp master’s
cabin is large enough to accommodate a field desk,
first aid chest, hospital cot and sleeping accom—
modations for the camp master. The buildings
which will be used for barracks range from 16
by 16 feet to 20 by 20 feet. All of the buildings
have at least four windows, while the larger
cabins have from eight to twelve. The side walls

240 I/VHEN THE CIVIC CELEBRATION WAS OVER

of all the cabins except the town hall are 7% feet,
the town hall side wall being 9 feet.

Roofs were constructed with I by 10 Number
2, pine and fir. The cracks between boards were
sealed by the I by 2 batten strip. To protect the
roof against rain and to give it the appearance of
age, 10 per cent gray paint was mixed with 90
per cent oil. The Playground and Recreation De-
partment is now planning to remove the batten
strips and cover the roofs with roofing paper.

Cinder floors were put in all of the cabins, the
cinders being obtained from the local power house
and wet down and rolled. This type of floor was
in keeping with the pioneer cabins as it had the
appearance of black dirt and stone. At a future
date the cinder floor will be used as a base for a
cement floor, and the laying of these floors will
proceed as rapidly as the Department’s funds
permit.

All of the cabins were constructed above the
ground on two thicknesses of 2 by 8 planks which
were leveled by blocking up to the highest ground
point with rock and wood. When the concrete
floors are laid it will be possible to pour the con-
crete under the walls of the cabins and thus
further preserve the buildings.

Some of the Accomplishments

When the time of the opening of the village
arrived, the Playground and Recreation Depart-
ment found itself credited with a number of ac—
complishments. It has participated in the major
project of the centennial celebration, and all of
the publicity in the newspaper during the plan-
ning and construction period referred to the De-

partment as being in charge. All of those partici-.

pating in the construction of the village had the
satisfaction of knowing that they were taking
part in a project which would greatly benefit the
children of Aurora under the leadership of the
Playground and Recreation Department. Groups
sharing in the construction included most of the
churches of the city, all of the schools, many
merchants and manufacturers, civic clubs, a num-
ber of fraternal organizations, PTA groups, labor
organizations, utility companies, business associa-
tions and the railroad. These groups of diverse
interests met in a single enterprise. Not only did
all the organizations take part but they contributed
to the greatest extent possible. It is believed that
all who shared in the project will continue their
interest in the recreation program.

Not only did the Recreation Department obtain
the cooperation of many groups, but during the
celebration it was possible to bring thousands of
people to the village grounds where they learned
what the future of the village was to be. During
the eighteen days the village was open it was esti-
mated there were over 100,000 visitors. Special
programs were conducted each evening. On the
first night the village was dedicated. The program
of the second night, known as Burlington Night,
was in charge of the railroad employees. Other
groups presenting programs were the German-
Americans, the Roumanian-Americans, the Wom-
an’s Club, the Hungarian group, the American
Legion and others.

To handle the crowds that visited the village it
was necessary to secure volunteer assistance. The
Boy Scouts set up a camp adjacent to the village
square, acted as guides and guards, and performed
many miscellaneous duties. The American Red
Cross supplied a tent at the Boy Scout village and
gave any first aid necessary. An ambulance was
loaned to the village for emergency use, as were
the services of the local utility life saving expert.
It was necessary to establish a number of ground
rules to insure a smoothly running celebration.
Bicycles were not permitted and only a few auto-
mobiles were allowed to park near the village
square. Morning clean—up duties were outlined
for the Boy Scouts. These regulations with many
others helped make the centennial celebration ex-
tremely successful.

Now that the celebration is over and the camp
facilities have been handed over to the Recreation
Department, a camp program is being outlined in
which the department is attempting to take ad—
vantage of all the facilities available. An addi-
tional island, the use of which was obtained from
the State Waterways Department, will be de-
veloped as a wild life park with an approach to
the island made through the construction of a
ferry. Wild flower gardens and a bird sanctuary,
together with quarters for rabbits, squirrels, ducks
and many domestic animals, will be established on
this island. The Aurora chapter of the Illinois
Sportsman League is cooperating to the extent of
putting fish into high water channels where the
inlet and outlet may be screened to prevent the
fish from escaping to the river. An archery range,
as well as areas for other reCreational activities,
will be developed.

Minimum Standards for Recreation Facilities

The Children’s Playground

CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND is an out-of-door
A area used primarily by children of both

sexes between the ages of 5 and 15 years of
age, and devoted to a variety of play and recrea-
tional activities adapted to the different age
groups, sexes, and the peculiar needs and interests
of the community.

General Requirements

I. It should be large enough to enable children
to engage in their favorite play activities.

2. It should be attractive.

3. It should be planned so that each age group
can take part in activities with out interfer—
ence from other groups.

4. It should provide facilities and areas which
will permit of a wide range of activities, in-
cluding specialized features and informal
play.

5. It should be laid out with a view to maxi—
mum safety and most effective operation.

Location.

The location of a children’s playground is of
primary importance. In selecting a site for a play-
ground, consideration should be given to:

I. Relation of site to the area it is to serve.
Careful studies show that most attendance
on playgrounds comes from within a one—
quarter mile radius. Children in sparsely
settled districts should not be expected to
walk more than one-half a mile to their play-
ground.

[0

. Safety and Accessibility. A playground should
not be located on a street bearing heavy traf-
fic, or where there are unusual hazards or
obstacles to children in
reaching the playground.

3. Relation to Elementary
Schools. It is usually de-
sirable that a playground
should adjoin an elemen-
tary school in order that
it may be used for both
school and community

A number of recreation workers have
suggested they would like to see more
material of a technical nature appear
in Recreation. In the February issue
we published the digest of a study of
the lighting of play areas. In this
article we are presenting some mini-
mum standards tor playgrounds and
recreation centers. We shall be glad
to receive comments from our read-

play. ers on these standards.

Size
In order to carry out a diversihed type of pro—

gram, a playground should range in size from 3%
to 5 acres.

Surfacing

Mast of the surface of the playground area
should be graded to insure proper drainage, from
one to two per cent; and covered with material
that will be safe and as free as possible from dust.

Fencing

A playground should be completely enclosed
with a fence 6 to 8 feet high, with openings at
such places as will be most convenient but not to
interfere with activities.

Landscaping

Beautifying the playground in keeping with the
program is important. Where a playground bord-
ers a street, the fence should be set back several
feet and plantings arranged outside the fence.
There should be trees for shade in appropriate
sections and as much turf as conditions justify.
Paths should be few and well placed.

Lighting

In the case of many play areas lights should be
installed in order that the fullest use may be made
of the facilities.

Design—'—Layout

In order to take care of children of different
ages and to provide a variety of play activities for
both sexes, the playground may be divided for
specific uses. Good results have been secured with
the following arrangement:

I. Small Children's Area. A special corner of the
playground should be set aside for the use of
small children. Such areas will need benches

and chairs for mothers, some

simple apparatus, a large sand
court, small lawn area for
games, and plenty of shade.

2. Apparatus Area. There is
less emphasis on apparatus to-
day than formerly. However,
it still has an important place
on the playground. It should
not be scattered about but have
a definite location. Among the

241

242 MINIIWUM STANDARDS FOR RECREATION FACILITIES

essential types are swings, slides, ungle gym, hori-
zontal bar and ladder, giant stride, traveling rings,
balance beam, and see-saw. If the playground is
to be used for the physical education program of
an elementary school, some pieces of the gym-
nastic type may be required.

3. Quiet Activities' Area. Special space should
be set aside for quiet activities such as dramatics,
arts and crafts, music, and story-telling. It may
be a shady corner or a quiet part of the play-
ground building. Tables and benches and pos-
sibly a small stage are required for such features.

4. Open Area. Much of the play of the six to
ten year old group is informal and requires an
open space for running and low organized games.
These areas should be well removed from the
team games of the older groups.

5. Area for Older Boys. Boys eleven to fifteen
years old need sufficient area for fields and courts
for softball, soccer, or touch football, volley ball,
handball, and other individual and team games.

6. Area for Older Girls. Girls should have their

own area where they may play softball, soccer,
volley ball, hockey, badminton, etc.

7. Tennis Courts. One or more tennis courts
should usually be provided on the playground,
placed so as to be easily accessible to both older
boys’ and older girls’ sections.

8. Shelter House. Unless provision is found in
an adjoining school house or other building, there
should be a shelter house with an activity room
large enough for rhythm and other group activi-
ties; if possible, one or two smaller rooms for
music, crafts, drama, or club meetings; an office
for the director; storage room, and toilet rooms
for boys and girls.

9. Wading Pool. A wading pool should be pro—
vided, preferably adjoining the shelter house.

Supplies

Game supplies should be of a quality and quan-
tity to provide full use of all the areas at any one
time. Such supplies should include handcraft
supplies, games, and equipment for quiet games
and free play activities. A bulletin board, a re-
pair kit, and a first aid kit are essential.

Leadership

Too much emphasis cannot be placed on trained
leadership—paid or volunteer. The quality of
leadership will determine to a great extent the
effectiveness of the playground in a community.

There should be at least two directors, a man and
a woman, on the ground at all times.

A good custodian is essential for the care and
maintenance of the grounds and its equipment.

The Community Recreation Center

A “Community Recreation Center” is a build-
ing in which a variety of indoor recreation facili-
ties make possible a widely diversified program of
recreational activities. It serves the needs and in—
terests of children, young people and adults of
both sexes. The building may be a separate unit
or it may be located on a recreation area such as
a neighborhood p1ayfield.—In the latter case it is
a part of a combined indoor-outdoor recreation
plant.

Location

The center should be located within easy access
to those for whom it is intended with due regard
to trafiic hazards. The community playfield may
be used as site if it is centrally located, since this
would provide a unit affording both indoor and
outdoor facilities.

There should be a neighborhood center for each
square mile of built-up area in the city.

The Building

The center building should be ample in size to
make possible the activities desired by the people.
It should be of simple but attractive design and
should have an atmosphere of hOSpitality. It
should be so planned that different parts can be
used by different groups at the same time with a
minimum of interference. The following essen—
tial room requirements should be provided:

I. A gymnasium meets a widespread interest in
games and physical activities. It lends itself
to a great variety of uses. The size depends
on neighborhood needs, but minimum dimen-
sions are suggested of 50’ by 90’. It is de—
sirable, if possible, to have permanent seat—
ing facilities for spectators.

2. Auditorium with stage. This will provide for
entertainments, concerts, dramatic produc-
tions and a variety of other activities. Seat-
ing capacity will be determined by the size
of the community and the degree of interest
of the people. A motion picture projector is
desirable. ( The auditorium and gymnasium
may be combined in a single unit using mov—
able seats. This is not entirely satisfactory
from the point of view of either gymnasium

MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR RECREATION FACILITIES 243

Courtesy Memphis, Tennessee, Park Department

or auditorium. Interests of different groups will
clash and program will necessarily be limited.)

3. Quiet game room. A room of ample propor-
tions equipped with small tables and chairs pro-
vides a place where individuals may spend a quiet
evening reading and playing games. It also at-
tracts people to the center who have no apparent
desire to engage in organized group activities.

4. Club and small group meeting rooms. Every
community center should have two or more small
rooms to serve as meeting rooms for clubs, classes
and special interest groups. The number, size and
equipment needed for these rooms depends upon
the neighborhood, the nature of the program car-
ried on and other factors. These rooms should be
equipped with chairs," one or more tables, and
ample space for storing materials and equipment.

5. Arts and crafts rooms. One or more rooms
should be provided for groups engaged in arts and
crafts activities. In addition to tables and chairs
ample storage facilities are needed.

6. Kitchen. Because there are many occasions
when it is desirable to serve refreshments and also
because the center may be used for dinners and
similar functions, a well equipped kitchen is an im-
portant feature. It should have ready access to
the auditorium or the rooms where meals or re-
freshments are likely to be served.

7. Loclter. shower and dressing rooms. These
facilities are essential to the successful operation

 

of the gymnasium. Separate facilities should be
provided f0r the two sexes. These features re-
quire careful planning in order to facilitate easy
circulation, supervision and maintenance.

8. Additional recreation features. There are
other additional rooms and services which a build-
ing may well provide and in all probability one or
more of them should be included in every recrea-
tion building, the selection depending on neigh-
borhood needs. Among these are pool room,
bowling alleys, swimming pool, special music
hall, reading room and library, rough house room,
and small social hall.

9. Offices for the directors. One or two offices
will be needed, located where they provide the
most ready supervision over the major features of
the building.

IO. Service features. Essential service facilities
are check rooms, ticket selling booth, lobby. stor-
age rooms for equipment, chairs, supplies, etc.,
janitor’s room, dressing rooms in connection with
the stage, heating plant and fuel storage.

NOTE: If the center is liacated on a neighhnrliood
playheld. it will function as a service buildingr fur the
outside facilities. This may necessitate a more ample
provision of showers, lockers and checking facilities and
will require an arrangement of these facilities 50 that
they may be readily accessible from the outside as well
as from the gymnasium.

(Continued on fume 36])

Applying a Treatment for u Boy Trouble”

NE TREATMENT of
O juvenile delin—
quency which has
proven its worth is the
application of wholesome
leisure—time activities.
“Boy trouble” is in a
great many instances the
outgrowth of the misuse
of free time combined
with an unfortunate home condition. These fac—
tors, plus‘ unemployment and poverty, all contrib-
ute to juvenile delinquency.

Providing the boy with activities he enjoys do—
ing and which will help him in his growth spirit—
ually as well as physically is one way of applying
a cure. The public playgrounds, Boy Scouts,
Y.M.C.A., boys’ Clubs, and similar organizations
are doing this, but they are often handicapped by
lack of facilities and trained personnel. A sym-
pathetic understanding of the juvenile delinquent
is a crying need today, and it is here that the
Junior Chamber of Commerce as well as many
similar agencies can make a contribution.

The Oakland, California, Junior Chamber of
Commerce has been working along this line during
the past few years, and this year the plan has de-
veloped into the establishment of the West Oak-
land Boys’ Recreation Center.

A New Center Is Created

In 1935 the Juvenile Welfare Committee of the
Junior Chamber of Commerce received its intro-
duction to the problem of delinquency through
the practical experience of a number of its mem—
bers in the legal profession. In an effort to obtain
facts the Committee, in c00peration with various
welfare agencies and with the public schools, con-
ducted a city-wide survey which showed that de-
linquency was on the increase in spite of the fact
that existing boys’ 'work agencies were doing
splendid work in their respective fields. At the
completion of this survey and the publication of
its flndings, a group of junior Chamber of Com-
merce members decided to experiment with some
preventive measures and to check their values.

A community was selected in which one out
of every four boys had at one time or another
come in contact with the juvenile court or the

244

By E. RODNEY OVERTON
Chairman. Juvenile Welfare Committee

Oakland Junior Chamber of Commerce

A Junior Chamber of Commerce in
a Pacific Coast city combats the
problem of juvenile delinquency

police.- With the help of
a number of workers
from the WPA Division
of Recreation, the boys
of this community were
asked to tell what activi-
ties they were most in-
terested in. It was found
that boxing, w r e s tli n g
and tap dancing held the
greatest interest for the largest number of boys.
With these activities as a basis for the program,
plans were made to open a boys’ center. The
fact that no money was available for the project
did not deter the Committee. The use of an aban-
doned schoolhouse was obtained from the Board
of Education. This was wired for evening use by
a member of the Junior Chamber of Commerce:
lumber and equipment for a boxing ring were
donated by several companies whom committee
members approached, and equipment for a games
room, including ping—pong, checkers, chess and
shuffleboard, was obtained from members. A
branch library for boys was established at the
center by the City Public Library. A craft room
and a shower room were added—-the latter a
contribution of the Board of Education.

The program covers a great many additional
activities. There are groups in model aircraft,
leather craft and Christmas card designing, and a
tap dancing class, community singing and band
practice, basketball, baseball, and sightseeing
trips are part of the program. Next summer a
camp will be established where the boys will go
for two or three weeks.

The great majority of the boys are members of
the three boys’ clubs which have been organized
within the center. There is no hard and fast rule
that a boy must belong to a club or even that he
must participate in its activities. If he comes to
the center it is the responsibility of the leaders to
make the program so attractive that he will want
to take part. On the other hand, there are boys
who, like many adults, are immune to organiza—
tion and do not care to join groups. These boys
are given the same privileges as club members,
and may come and go as they please.

When it became necessary to raise funds for

( C o‘ntimted on page 261)

Play in a Children’s Institution

By ESTHER YARDLEY

E HAVE AN ideal location for our Children’s

Home in Pottsville, sitUated as we are on a

high elevation surrounded by lovely old
trees which give us greatly appreciated shade in
the summer months. Our playground, which is
large and used the greater part of the year, is
equipped with various pieces of apparatus. There
is space enough for such games as tennis, play-
ground ball and volley ball. Last year we fur—
nished our basement play rooms with tables, book-
cases, a play house, chairs, doll tables, lockers and
numerous other equipment. One of these play
rooms is used as a gymnasium in the winter time
and during bad weather. Recently our study hall
has been made into a three department room com-
bining the library, study hall and quiet room.

The Recreation Program

Through our recreation program we try to give
the children in our care the advantages they would
have in their own homes and an opportunity to
live as nearly as possible a normal life through
recreation and social contacts with the community.

In the Summer. During the summer months each
child goes to the swimming pool every day and
with few exceptions all of them have learned to
swim. During the summer of 1937 we started a
“Know Pottsville Campaign” during the course
of which we visited in small groups a dairy, meat
packing house, post office, a library, a bank, the
City Hall, a department store and a grocery store.
The children were intensely interested in this proj-
ect and we felt it had great educational value.

Social dancing, hikes, picnics, eating out in the
open, journeys to amusement parks, parties for
children who are leaving the home, a circus, a
county fair and seasonable games made up our
summer program. We make a special point of
urging‘our children to bring their friends to the
home during vacation time, and we encourage
them in visiting.

Across the way from the home is some vacant
land in which last summer we started a garden
project, cultivating half an acre. The boys took
complete charge of the garden, doing the plant-

ing and weeding, and caring for and picking all

In July, I936, Miss Yardley became

the director of recreation at the
li’ottsvillel Pennsylvania. Children's
Home. She tells in this article of
some of the accomplishments of the
past two years. Very recently Miss
Yardley was appointed superintend-
ent of the Home and a new director
of recreation has been selected.

the vegetables. We ended the summer garden
project with a net profit of $25.30. We found this
an excellent experience for our children as they
were out of doors most of the time and problems
of discipline were materially lessened.

We have secured tools and a work bench for
our shop, and here -we find the boys during their
spare time making benches, tie racks and other
articles, and repairing inrniture.

In August we arranged for our children to at-
tend the Y.W.C.A. camp for a week-end. The
change of environment, the different surround-
ings, the old swimming hole, the opportunity to
play tennis, to boat, fish and prepare their own
meals, and eating out of doors all did so much for
the children that we are hoping to be able to send
them again this summer.

Fall and Winter Program. One of the main fea-
tures during the fall and winter seasons is the or—
ganization of clubs. Each child may become a
member of a club, choosing the one he prefers
from the following list: athletic; hiking; glee
club; skating; stamp collecting; storytelling; sew-
ing and knitting.

We encourage our children to enjoy hobbies.
Leaders of the clubs are members of the staff and
volunteer workers from town. The boys are at—
tending classes at the Y..\l on Saturday
mornings which offer recreation and swimming.
Several of the girls belong to the Girl Reserves,
one of them recently being made an officer in her
group. A few of the children take pianolessons;
many of them sing in the ‘various church choirs.
A course in home hygiene given under the Ameri—
can Red Cross has proved most beneficial. \\'e
were fortunate in securing tickets for our chil-
dren to attend the football games in town, and as
a special privilege a few of the 'older children were

(Continuhd on page 261)
" 245

You Asked for It!

ROM A GROUP in a large city comes the fol-
lowing: “We are very much concerned in
our city about certain problems of adminis—

tration, and we shall be very grateful for any in—
formation you will give us in reply to the follow—
ing questions” :

Question: How many cities comparable in size
to our city have recreation boards?

Answer: There are recreation boards or com—
missions in Fort Worth and Houston, Texas, in
Los Angeles, Oakland and San Francisco, Cali-
fornia, and in Cincinnati, Ohio.

In Boston the Park Department and the School
Board have been conducting recreation activities.
In the School Board two departments have re—
sponsibility for independent phases of the work.
In order to secure better interrelationships, the
Mayor appointed a recreation committee to study
the situation and a careful survey has been made.
This survey recommended a recreation commis—
sion for Boston, and its establishment is now
under consideration by the Mayor.

During the years when Dr. William Burdick
worked in Baltimore, he built up a board system
of community recreation under his private asso—
ciation whose present name is the Playground
Athletic League. It received money from the
schools, from the city and the Community Chest,
and was a unique type of organization, being
built largely around Dr. Burdick’s own leadership.
Recently the Mayor of the city, at the request of
local groups and individuals, appointed a group
to study the local situation as had been done in
Boston. This committee has recommended a rec-
reation commission, after having a study made.
to take over the work of the Playground Athletic
League, the parks and the schools. The report of
the committee containing this

Answer: In cities where there are separate rec—
reation boards, cooperation with other local pub-
lic bodies is provided for primarily in two ways:
(I) by official representation on the recreation
board; (2) through direct agreement between the
recreation commission and the agency concerned
—school board, park board or other public body.

Question: In cities where recreation boards
function separately, is the recreation board au-
thorized to appoint the staff through the Civil
Service or is an examination set up by the board
in cooperation with the Civil Service?

Answer: In practice both methods may be
found. Where there is Civil Service most recrea-
tion personnel is selected through this channel; in
a number of cases the executive is exempt from
local residence requirements. This applies in
many cities where there are commissions, as well
as cities where there are no commissions, as com-
missions come under or use the Civil Service. In
commission cities where there is no Civil Service,
the Civil Service techniques are usually used or at
least some comparable merit system. Where there
is no board or commission and no Civil Service,
cities have found it difficult to establish any merit
basis for employment. A few school districts, of
course, such as Newark, New Jersey, use the edu-
cational certification method, but this is very ex-

ceptional.

Note: Readers of RECREATION interested in se—
curing information on problems of administration
will wish to obtain a copy of a bulletin entitled
“The Organization of Municipal Recreation Pro—
grams,” which reports some of the findings of a

study of this subject based on a questionnaire
sent to three groups of cities. These included

cities having separate recreation boards or de-
partments; those with munic-

recommendation has just been
submitted to the Mayor for
his consideration.

Question: In these cities
where recreation boards are
separate from any of the
functional agencies, how is
cooperation with the school
board, parks and playgrounds
developed?

246

Further information on administrative
trends will be found in a reprint from
an article which appeared in the Janu-
ary issue of Recreation under the title
"Recent Trends in Local Governmental
Control of Year-Round Recreation.’I
This may be secured free of charge on
request. Additional facts and figures
are now available from the I937

Year Book. which has been published in
the June I938 issue of the magazine.

ipal park boards, and com-
munities maintaining recrea-
tion programs under boards
of education. Replies were
received from 176 adminis—
trative authorities. Copies of
the bulletin may be secured
at fifteen cents each from the
National Recreation Associ—

ation.

WORLD AT PLAY

ONE of the most in-
teresting features of
the program at the
Community House at
Moorsetown, New Jersey, is a club of elderly men
whose ages range from 65 to 84 years. There are
twelve regular attendants at this club who meet
one morning a week in the clubroom of the Com—
munity House to play cards and checkers. At
noon they meet for luncheon for which they pay.
which is served by the Community House. This
club ranks high in the enjoyment which it gives
to its members.

A Social Club for
the Older Men

LAST summer nature
activities were stress-
ed as a dehnite part of
the program at She-
boygan, Wisconsin. At least once during the sum-
mer the boys and girls of each playground were
taken in chartered buses to Evergreen Park to
tramp through the park under the leadership of
Roy Myhre of the Park Department, who gave a
Short course in park appreciation, tree, bird and
flower identification. In order that this outdoor
classroom would not too closely resemble the
schoolroom the periods were broken up with
nature games, which would serve to emphasize
the points brought home. The honor point system
had in it the mounting and classifying of leaves
and flowers. Nature stories were told.

Nature Activities at
Sheboygan

THE fifth annual Na-
tional Folk Festival
was held in Constitu-
tion Hall, Washington,
D.‘ C., on May 6, 7 and 8. More than 500 par—
ticipants from twenty-nine states took part in the
three-day presentation of the American scene in
song, dance and story. There were Plainsong
Chanters fromKentucky; Dunkards from Mary-
land singing religious folk hymns; representatives
from five Indian tribes with their offering of
dances, songs and flute playing; Ballad Singers
from Virginia; Miner Songsters from the anthra-
cite coal fields of Pennsylvania, and many others.
The manner in which the folk arts are being pre-
served and used increasingly was seen in the folk
exhibits which were held.

The Fifth National
Folk Festival

ONE hundred and
seventy-live members
have enrolled in the
municipal choir spon—
sored by the Playground and Recreation Commis-
sion of Springfield, Illinois, and directed by E.
Carl Lundgren, director of the a cappella choir of
the Springfield High School. Membership in the
choir is limited to individuals who have been mem-
bers of advanced choirs in the local high schools
or in comparable choirs of some other educational
institution. The choir’s first concert was held the
latter part of June.

A Municipal
Choir

A meeting of the Nan-
‘ ticoke, Pennsylvania,
Playground and Rec-
reation Association
held early in May was preceded by the presenta-
tion of a check for $3,107.13. The presentation
was made by Mayor Ostroski on behalf of the
city police force, and the check represented the

Police Support
Playgrounds

.receipts of the policemen’s ball plus contributions

to the dance program and other gifts. The money
will be used for work on several playgrounds. It is
expected that volunteer labor will be used on all

the projects.

ON May 8th at Sig-
mund Stern Grove,
San Francisco’s new
lawn bowling green,
the first to be constructed by the Recreation Com—
mission, was dedicated. Speaking at the dedica-
tion on the history and development of lawn
bowling, Herbert F. Brooks pointed out that the
first authentic record available tells of the con-
struction of a green in the city of Southampton,
England, in the year 1279. This green is still in
use although it has been resurfaced many times.
In California alone, Mr. Brooks stated, there are
over thirty lawn bowling clubs most of which play
on public greens built and maintained by the rec-
reation or park commissions in their respective

municipalities.

Lawn Bowling for
San Francisco

THE \Vashington
Park center in Cincin—
nati, Ohio, was set
up to provide for
hundreds of transients and home-

247

Where Checkers
Flourish

 

248 WORLD AT PLAY

HANDICRAFT

. Materials, caning chair frames,
basketry—reed, raflia, grass,
rush, fibre, Leathercraft. Jute

and warp.

Send 100 for Catalog
Instructions free

     
            
 

American Reedcraft Corporation
Dept. R., 130 Beekman Street, New York City

    

less men who for years have made the park a
gathering place. The supervisor of the center is
one of the best checker players in Cincinnati and
his interest is reflected in the program of the cen-
ter. To the center come checker players from all
walks of life. regardless of economic and social
background, because they know that here they
will find keen competition. Five out of the first
six places in the annual checker tournament for
the championship of Greater Cincinnati, held dur-
ing March, went to the Washington Park players.

A Trailer Camp—A trailer camp was one of
the novel projects sponsored last summer by
the Sisterhood of Zion and the Jewish Come
munity Center in Buffalo, New York. The
camp was organized to give children who
could not go to a regulation camp an oppor-
tunity to enjoy a program offering some of the
features of camping. Trips were taken to the
botanic gardens and to shops. After each field

 

 

     
  

Gorgeous Wood Bead _ , , '1
bags, belts, bracelets,
clips, necklaces, etc., are
easy to make at home.
We furnish complete 32
page booklet of instruc-
tions and patterns, best
quality beads and sup-
plies. It's fascinating

22d;"21’;“2 2:2! 37 w. 37th 51. - NEW YORK. N. it.

[3 Send FREE lileralure describing 5 WALCO Beodcrofrs. R_ 7 8 I
I D I enclose 10: for 32 page WALCO Wood Beod Booklet of slmpliBed I

I instructions and designs. also octuol Wood Bead samples. I
: We .................................  .......................... .. '
I ADDRESS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. :

trip visit picnics were enjoyed in a near-by
park. After a trip on one day of the week,
four mornings from nine until twelve o’clock
were devoted to handwork, including work
with beads, copper, plaster, wood, felt, leather
and paints. All of the activities revolved about
the idea of the trailer camp. The Parents’ Edu—
cational Club, an organization of the mothers
of the children participating in the project,
furnished milk daily to the children.

A City Skating Carnival—Children of Ann
Arbor, Michigan, took part in a skating car—
nival in January. There were preliminary con~
tests at six of the city skating rinks, with finals
held on Saturday afternoon. There were five
events open to girls—broom riding race
(twelve to fourteen); obstacle race (ten to
eleven); skating for girls nine and under; 50
yard speed race (fifteen and over), and a relay
race (no age limit). The boys, too, contested
in five events——broom riding race (nine and
under); obstacle race (twelve to fourteen) ;
speed race (fifteen and over) ; chariot race (ten
to eleven), and dog derby (no age limit). Par-
ticipants could enter only one event.

To Promote Outdoor Recreation—The Fed—
eral government is taking an active interest in hik-
ing, skiing, camp grounds and primitive areas.
There have been appointed through the National
Park Service regional advisory committees in all
of the principal mountain recreation areas of the
nation who will assist in formulating policies and
practices for these areas.

Play Safe—The Statistical Bulletin of the
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company for De-
cember 1937 reports a toll of 104,000 deaths
from accidents of one kind or another during
l937—the highest figure for any year with the
single exception of 1936 when, according to
the National Safety Council’s estimate, the all-
time high figure of 111,000 deaths was reached.
Accident fatalities in the homes or in public
places, exclusive of motor vehicle fatalities, ape
parently were lower in 1937 than in 1936.
Motor vehicle and occupational accident fa-
talities, on the other hand, increased. There
was a rise of about 2,000 in the number of
motor vehicle fatalities, bringing the total to
the unheard of figure of 40,000 deaths in one
year—a new high record.

WORLD AT PLAY 249

In Lewistown, Pennsylvania—~An outgrowth
of the Fifth Ward Playground of Lewistown,
Pennsylvania, which was opened in June 1937
under the auspices of the Fifth ward Play-
ground Association, was a class conducted
during the winter for mothers who attended
the playground during the summer. This class
met every week at homes of the various mem-
bers of the group, studying books, playing
games and sewing. The Fifth Ward Play—
ground Association is assisting other sections
of the city in organizing similar associations
which will open playgrounds.

Federalist Papers Available— The sesqui-
centennial edition of the Federalist papers has
been published by the National Home Library
Foundation of Washington, D. “C.-, as part of
the celebration of the one hundred and fiftieth
anniversary of the Constitution. The volume
contains the complete collection of the eighty-
five essays on the Constitution originally pub-
lished by Hamilton, Madison and Jay. It in-
cludes 675 pages and may be secured in paper
edition for 50 cents; cloth edition for 75 cents,
and in a special gift edition at $1.00

Needlework as a Hobby—A suggestion for
an interesting hobby is offered by Mrs. Theodore
Roosevelt, In, in a series of needlework pic—
tures she has made celebrating events in the
life of her family. Two of the pictures were
made as souvenirs of Colonel Roosevelt’s ser-
vice as governor of Porto Rico and his hunting
expedition. Another picture, covering for a
chair which tells its history, was made in 1817
for Mrs. Roosevelt’s great grandmother who
'took it by ox sled from Vermont to Ohio. Mrs.
Roosevelt believes that many women would
enjoy celebrating family events in needlework.
Even if the work is done crudely, she points
out, it still will have individuality and interest.

A Municipal Drama Association—The Mu-
nicipal Drama Association of Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma, sponored by the City Park Depart-
ment, has entered its second year. Organized to
encourage cultural expression, interest and par-
ticipation of home talent in all desirable forms of
the drama, the association is fulfilling its objec-
tive. It has sponsored and presented free dramatic
productions of a high caliber, and it has estab—
lished and is maintaining a drama library avail-

 

aowrooscamze i
one manor: 9 '
HORSESHOE cws ‘

  
 

  

EAGLE

RINCER
(Patented)

WRITE FOR FREE
BOOKLET

Horseshoe Pitching is a game that appeals
to everyone interested in playgrounds. 'Get
your free copy of “How to Organize a Horse-
shoe Club” and see how handily the game is
adapted to your requirements.

The Diamond line of Pitching Horseshoes
and accessories includes everything needed
in promoting the game. Ask for catalog and
rule books when you write.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

able to all groups working through the associa-
tion. Its membership consists of representative

      

 

.delegates from all the drama agencies and institu-

tions of the city and of individuals in the com-
munity interested in promoting amateur dramatics.
No fees are required either for membership or
for the production of plays which are written by
members of the association.

For a Fitter Britain-—-In a plea for a “fitter
Britain,” Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain em-
phasized the importance of improving health ser-
vice. Government efforts will be concentrated on
teaching the public the variety of benefits in medi-
cal and dental treatment offered by social services
built up during the past quarter of a century. Ef-
forts will also be made, Mr. Chamberlain pointed
out, to encourage athletics. About 162, 500,000 has
been appropriated for instructing gymnasium di-
rectors and aiding in the purchase of playing fields
and similar facilities. —- From The New York
Times, October I, 1937.

Softball in Oakland—During the last season
240 teams were actively engaged in playing soft-
ball in Oakland, California, with approximatelv

250 , WORLD AT PLAY

   

SHUFFLEBOARD EQUIPMENT
$6.00, $|0.00, $|5.00 and $25.00 se+s

Composition, Noiseless Rubber—tlred and Easy Glide
Discs, $6.00 to $8.00. Aluminum Footed-Maple Toed
Cues, $1.00 to $5.00. Bin Toss Game, $1.00.

Send for Free Catalogue, Plan Standard Court

DAYTONA BEACH SHUFFLEBOARD CO.

PHILMONT, N. Y.

       
     
      

4,000 players on the field. In addition, there were
leagues running in all of the neighboring cities,
bringing a total within Alameda County to nearly
500 teams. Howard B. Holman, Supervisor of
Boys’ Recreation, suggests that one of the greatest
values of softball is the fact that it brings into the
out of doors such large groups of spectators. In
Oakland, where no admission charge is made, the
games attract an average crowd of 2,500 people
per game, four games being played each night
during the summer season.

A Conservation Birthday Project-uThe topic
of the 1938 Birthday Project of the Camp Fire
Girls is “My Land and Me” or “This Land of
Ours,” a project stressing nature and conserva-
tion. Girls throughout the entire country will be
working on this project during the coming months
and for those who complete the requirements a
special Birthday Honor will be awarded. In order
to complete the project the girls must fulfill one
requirement in each of five divisions, two of
which include individual activities and three,
group activities. Group activities include, among
other suggestions, making a winter nature trail,
planting vines and shrubs to attract birds, starting
a conservation library and giving a conservation
exhibition or program. Individual activities in-
clude maintaining a winter feeding station for
birds, making sketches of plants and animals,
writing a diary of a plant or animal which has
been closely observed over a period of time and
making a poster, model or map for exhibition
purposes, illustrating any one of eighteen nature
and conservation topics.

Once Moreu—Miniature Golf! -—Miniature
golf, America’s most popular game ten years ago,
has been successfully revived on the playground
of the WPA recreation project at Glendive, Mon-
tana. The course, built entirely of salvaged ma—
terial, has proved popular with Glendive children,
many of whom had never heard of this game
which was played by millions in 1928.

The Elizabeth Civic Theater—The Eliza-
beth, New Jersey, Civic Theater has issued an at-
tractive booklet announcing its activities for the
1937—38 season——a program which will offer the
community what is in effect a school of the drama
and the allied arts. Using the facilities of Battin
High School, made available through the courtesy
of the Board of Education, the theater will offer
six courses in the theater and its allied arts. There
will be classes in stage craft, dramatic technique,
theatrical dancing and make-up. A course of lec~
tures will be given by outstanding workers in the
various fields of the theater, and there will be bi—
weekly meetings to discuss current plays and de-
velopments in drama. Theater parties will bear—
ranged to New York productions. The workshop
will be a laboratory theater in which theories of
acting, make—up and production will be tested by
actual experience. ‘ The workshop will prepare
one-act plays for membership parties and for the
one—act play festival. Supporters of the theater
are known as sponsors and patrons. Sponsors
subscribe for two or more season ticket at $2.50
each, while patrons are holders of single season
tickets.

Softball Leagues in Greenwich—Greenwich,
Connecticut, with its 38,000 inhabitants, is re-
ported to have more softball teams than any other
city in the state and more teams per population
than any other city in the country. The Recrea-
tion Board organized the Greenwich Softball As-
sociation which assisted materially in promoting
and governing the sport. Eight leagues were or—
ganized with sixty-two teams competing and 930
men enrolled.

The horseshoe pitchers of the state gathered in
Greenwich on September 12th under the auspices
of the Connecticut Horseshoe Pitching Associa—
tion for a state championship meet. The Recrea-
tion Board provided fifty entrants with a battery
of twelve regulation courts equipped with flood-
lights for night playing.

Educational Radio Scripts—The Office of
Education, United States Department of the In-
terior, Washington, is maintaining an Educational
Radio Script Exchange designed to serve as a
bureau of information regarding the sources of
educational radio scripts. In it are being collected
selected script material which is being used in
connection with local non-commercial radio sta-
tion broadcasts, produced as mock broadcasts at

WORLD AT PLAY 251

    

Yes you can actually own a New Royal Porta—

ble with Touch Control for as little as $1 a
week. Without risking a penny see and try the

New Royal. See how the whole family takes
to it. Then own it on your own terms—cash
or ONLY A FEW CENTS A DAY. See your
Royal Portable dealer or mail coupon today
for complete, Up-to-the-minute information.

ROYAL TYPEWRITER COMPANY, Inc.

Dept. HNR 738

2 PARK AVENUE. NEW YORK, N.’ Y.

 

community meetings, presented in connection with
study club programs and used for other educa-
tional purposes. Anyone interested in schring
these radio scripts may write the Exchange for a
copy of its free catalogue in which each script
'is briefly described and classified according to its
:subject.

Festival of One Act Plays-—-On February
15th, 16th and 17th the Department of Recreation
-of Lansing, Michigan, sponsored a festival of one
act plays to encourage drama as a project in the
churches and to enable each church group to bene-
fit by the plays presented by the others. The de-
partment provided tickets and programs, the plan
being for each group to sell as many tickets as
possible and to keep for its own use all money
above expenses. The festival will be followed by
a one act play contest from April 18th to 21st.

Surveys in the Leisure-Time Field—A sur-
vey of recreational facilities and needs in San An—
tonio, Texas, made by Eugene T. Lies and Mrs.

Grace Pettet, may be secured from the City Ree—
reation Department, City Hall, San Antonio. A
survey on the leisure—time problems in Shreve-
port, Louisiana, also made by Lies and Pettet.
may be obtained from the Community Fund, the
First National Bank Building, Shreveport. The
price of each survey is one dollar.

The Chicago Recreation Survey—One of the
activities of the Chicago Recreation Commission
has been a study of Chicago recreational facilities
—a project which has been under way for a num-
ber of years. The project was sponsored jointly
by four bodies—Northwestern University, the
Chicago Recreation Commission ,WPA and NYA.
Northwestern University from the beginning pro-
vided the technical and editorial service, and for
most of the life of the project has furnished sup-
plies and other essentials. The Recreation Com-
mission provided sponsorship, funds for publica-
tion, and many supplies, incidental expenses and
various services. VVPA furnished the funds for
most of the labor and supplies, while NYA gave

252 NATIONAL JOSEPH LEE DAY

Minimum Space Required, 32 inches by 20 feet

MODERN SHUFFLE BOARD GAME SET

5 I /
MALABLE CAST mom - WHITE PLATED 

ONE SET consusrs or: 4- PUSH CUES and
6 DISC (3 A's and 3 8'5)

PRICE i|2.°° per set , Delivered

CURVED FRONTGIVES
POSITIVE CONTROL IN

snoormc. THE 015:.
BRASS PIVOT.

National Joseph Lee Day

HOUGH ONLY a few weeks have passed since

omit, the announcement of the setting aside of July

2 or 3 28th as a special day on which to give thought to
“we,” ‘6’“ the life and work of Joseph Lee, the idea has met

with widespread approval. Messages have come
THE PURPOSE OF

mam THE D,“ from all parts of the country 1nd1cat1ng that spe-
°N ST‘RT'NG “"E‘ c1a1 act1v1t1es and exerc1ses w111 be conducted on

    
   
   

( URVED BACK FOR

 
 
 
 

    
 

PATEN‘I'EI
AND HIGH.

I4I7 - 80th. Ave. CHAS. H.WILSON

some essential personnel and equipment of extra—
ordinary value in certain emergencies. Arthur J.
Todd of Northwestern University served as chair-
man of the committee in charge of the study. The
report, which is profusely illustrated with maps
and graphs, contains a history of public recrea-
tion in Chicago, Part 2 considers the administra-
tion aspects of public recreation, while Part 3
takes up recreation facilities and programs. Copies
of this study are available at all the Chicago
Branch Libraries.

Referendum Votes for Recreation in Illinois
——-—-Two cities in Illinois have recently taken ad-
vantage of the Illinois Recreation Law enacted in
1921, permitting of a referendum vote on the es-
tablishment and maintenance of a recreation pro-
gram. Champaign cast 2,500 votes for the issue,
1,600 against it; Urbana 1,600 for the issue, 1,900
against it. Oak Park voted at a similar election to
increase the local levy for recreation as permitted
by a 1937 amendment to the original law.

A Youth Week Celebration—Newark, New
Jersey, held its 18th annual Youth Week celebra-
tion from April 29th through May 6th, with a
varied program of events including the eighth an-
nual harmonica jubilee, the fourth annual model
aircraft program, the fifth annual Lieutenant
George C. Calnan Memorial fencing tournament,
and the second annual table tennis tournament.
The final day of the week was devoted to a series
of play days in all districts of the city, conducted
by the staff of the Newark Recreation Depart-
ment.

A New Recreation Commission—A Recrea—
tion Commission has been legally appointed at

Oakland,Calif.

July 28th in memory of Joseph Lee.

President Roosevelt has sent- a letter commend—
ing the idea. Dr. L. P. Jacks of Oxford, England,

has written a special tribute for the day.

St. Louis, Missouri, reports that there will be a
special speaker on each one of their sixty—eight
playgrounds. Jacksonville, Florida, is planning to
make use of all playground bulletin boards to
make material about Joseph Lee available to all
the children. Houston, Texas, hopes to have two
new playground buildings finished by July 28th.
Their opening will be related to the observance of
Joseph Lee Day. A folk festival in which all
Houston playgrounds will participate will be dedi-
cated to the memory of Mr. Lee. Los Angeles
will emphasize actual demonstrations of joyous
play of children. In addition, addresses will be
made interpreting the significance of his life and
the activities which he helped to stimulate through—
out the nation. San Francisco plans radio talks,
addresses at service club meetings and dedicatory

exercises on playgrounds.

The purpose of National Joseph Lee Day, ac-
cording to the National Committee that has been
organized, is to commemorate the life and work
of Joseph Lee and to interpret the importance of
community recreation. The Committee has issued
a brochure containing suggestions for commemor-
ating Joseph Lee Day, a brief biographical sketch
of Joseph Lee, selected sayings, characteristic
ideas and ways, favorite games and sports, a brief
children’s biography of Joseph Lee, a pageant.
and other material suitable for use by local com—
munities desiring to share in the tribute being
paid 011 that day to a builder of the national rec-
reation movement. Copies of this material, as
long as they are available, may be secured free of
charge by writing to the National Joseph Lee Day

i Committee, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City.

 

Beaver Falls, Pennsylvania, and a program will
soon be under way in that community. Donald R.
Martin is chairman of the Commission.

NEW YORK HOLDS A HOBBY LUNCHEON 253

 

Charles Hayden

A ' tribute was paid to the founder. of the
Hayden Planetarium when a portrait of the late
Charles Hayden by William F iske Noyes was un-
veiled at memorial exercises held in the plane-
tarium. The portrait was given the American
Museum of Natural History by Charles Hayden’s
brother, Josiah Willard Hayden, president of the
Charles Hayden Foundation, established to aid
boys and men. The greater part of Mr. Hayden’s
fortune was left to this Foundation.

For the last ten years of his life Charles Hayden
served as a member of the Board of Directors of
the National Recreation Association.

Pets From the Wilds—“People are continu—
ally acquiring queer animals and birds by capture
or purchase and trying to tame them,” states a
recent newspaper article. “Perhaps this is the
oldest of hobbies.” The publicity given the giant
panda has made this previously unknown animal
familiar to the newspaper reading public of the
country. Many other animals might be listed
among those which people are attempting to do-
mesticate. In the big animal category bears and
deer have been favorite subjects, but neither is
satisfactory for the purpose. The deer is an ap-
pealing animal but is always unsafe. “Bears are

(Continued on page 254)

New York Holds a Hobby

Luncheon

As A CLOSING feature of the two day confer-
ence on adult education in March, arranged
by the New York Adult Education Council and
sponsored by the American Association for Adult
Education, a luncheon was held at which a num-
ber of well known individuals described their own
personal hobbies and the satisfactions which have
come to them through their hobby interests.

Dr. William F. G. Swann, director, Bartow
Research Foundation, Benjamin Franklin Insti—
tute, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania, discussed his in-
terest in music, particularly his enjoyment in play-
ing the cello. He urged the importance of doing
things without utilitarian value, such as partici-
pation in hobbies and arts.

Dr. John H. Finley, editor of The New York
Times and president of the National Recreation
Association, showed several books which he him-
self had made, one of them a book of poems
which he had written to his granddaughter. The
complete book, including illustrations, was all
done by Dr. Finley by hand. He exhibited a sec-
ond book which he' had prepared for private dis-
tribution for which he had not only written the
copy but designed the title page, setting the type
by hand. Dr. Finley’s interest in printing started
in his youth when he worked in a small printing
shop while attending college at Galesburg, Illinois.

Miss Jennie M. Flexner, readers’ adviser, New
York Public Library, described her enthusiasm
for collecting Anthony Trollope, and Gustav F.
Beck of New York University told how his in-
terest in puppetry had developed and had found
expression in the writing of a full length play
for the theater. ’

Mr. Beck was in England at the time of the
World War, and because of certain German back-
ground and blood connections he was in an un-
happy emotional state. Feeling that he needed
some definite interest to maintain his balance and
provide some emotional outlet, he decided to take
up the making of marionettes for children. When
he had equipped himself to do this, he felt the
need for plays for the marionettes. He decided
the old Greek legends would be excellent for this
purpose so he took up the study of Greek. This
led from one thing to another until he hnally
reached the point of writing a play covering one
day in the life of Emily Dickinson. The value of

254 WORLD AT PLAY

 

For Story Tellers

Story Pgrade

.—

   

 

 

“Story Parade is a godsend to the directors on

our two-hundred-plus playgrounds because it con-
tains such fine telling stories. As you know, not all
good reading stories are tellable.”

DESSA M. FULTZ, Director of Storytelling
Los Angeles City School Playgrounds

3 summer issues—500

Regular subscription—$2.00 a year
STORY PARADE :: 70 FIFTH AVENUE

NEW YORK. N. Y.

 

a hobby, he said, is that it leads you from one
thing to another and requires study and explora-
tion in a number of fields of interest.

Remo Bufano, a professional maker of marion—
ettes, told of the fun he derives from sculpture
which, as he himself pointed out, is a hobby deli-
nitely related to his profession. He described
making of marionettes in the highest sense as
creating moving sculpture.

Mrs. Garret Smith spoke on gardening, the
pleasure of watching flowers grow, and the way in
which the gardener is led to study insect and ani-
mal pests, soil composition, landscaping and other
allied subjects. She told of the experiment in
gardening service conducted in cooperation with
New York University in the Greenwich Village
area of New York City. A garden center has been
established in W ashington Square North to which
anyone in the neighborhood may come for advice,
books, seeds, bulbs, and information on subjects
of all kinds. The garden center idea, she pointed
out, represents one of the practical ways in which
recreation departments in large cities can help
promote gardening.

 

Arbitration may seem to most people a strange
kind of hobby, but to Sidney A. Wolf]? it is a deep
satisfaction and an avocational interest. Mr.
Wolff told how he is called upon by the Labor
Mediation Board and similar groups to sit on
cases for arbitration. This has required a great
deal of study of various industries, and as a re-
sult of this arbitration he has had to educate him-
self on many things such as milk distribution, the
marking of garments, and the cost of living.

World at Play

(Continued from page 253)

the most unpredictable quadrupeds in North
America.” Perhaps the “best bet” of all for a
“homemade” wild pet is the crow which is fairly
easy to capture when it is a baby. Badgers,
skunks, porcupines, squirrels and mice are some
of the other common animals sometimes promoted
to be pets.

Seen in Paterson, New Jersey—Little girls
of six, big girls of sixteen, and small boys ranging
from six to eleven uled into the gymnasium of the
annex of Paterson’s City Hall, many with trout
rods in cases under their arms. Promptly at four
o’clock they lined up shoulder to shoulder across
the gymnasium, and the class in Hy casting was
on! And very expert indeed were some of these
young anglers. The sports writer for the Pater-
son evening paper, affectionately greeted by the
children as “Doc” Gruneman, is the volunteer
leader of this class. For eleven years he has been
teaching children the art of fly casting, and under
his leadership about four hundred children
throughout the county are enrolled in classes.
Children are "instructed how to teach each other,
and Mr. Gruneman states that one of the finest
teachers he knows is a boy of eleven.

Twenty-three Authors and the
Youth Problem

( C ontinued from page 207)

enrollees was nineteen years, one month; in July
1937 it was eighteen years, three months. Thirty-
iive per cent of all enrollees from April I, 1936
to March 3r, 1937 had attended high school; in
July 1937, it was 53 per cent. In January 1937,
52.2 per cent of enrollees were rural youths; in
July 1937, 59.2 per cent. Facts are submitted
showing the better health rate and lower death

( C o’nfimtc’d on page 256)

AMONG OUR FOLKS 255

Among Our Folks

SCANABA, MICHIGAN, Watertown, Connecti—
E cut and Berwyn, Illinois, have appointed year-
round recreation executives for the first time. The
appointees were Bevier Butts in Escanaba, How—
ard Harrison in W’atertown, and George Sluka in
Berwyn.

Harry Wuelser succeeded Carl Schmitt in Mil-
burn, New Jersey, when Mr. Schmitt resigned to
become the first Superintendent of Recreation in
Delaware County, Pennsylvania. ‘

Joe Schaffer, formerly Superintendent of Rec-
reation in Lima, Ohio, has been succeeded by
Harold C. Dillon.

In January, Robert M. Schultz, formerly Di—
rector of Boys’ and Men’s Activities in Reading,
Pennsylvania, became the first Superintendent of
Recreation to be appointed in Bethlehem, Penn-
sylvania.

Dyer T. Jones has succeeded Ambler R. Travis
as recreation executive in Maplewood, New
Jersey.

Upon the resignation of J. R. Wooden, who
had been in charge of recreation in South Bend,
Indiana, Floyd Merriman, formerly on 'the state
W PA program in Indiana, was appointed to take
his place”.

Following a civil service examination in Sche-
nectady, New York, the first to be offered for the
position of superintendent of recreation, Fae H.
Marvin received the appointment as executive.

Harold C. Davis, who for a number of years
was in charge of the emergency recreation pro-
gram conducted in Schenectady, has accepted the
position of Director of Recreation in Rhinebeck,
New York, a small community providing a full-
time recreation program for the first time this
year.

Ray F orsberg, who resigned as Superintendent
of Recreation in Salt Lake City, Utah, has been
succeeded by Jessie Schofield.

Dedhani, Massachusetts, has appointed a new
director of its recreation program. David R.
Kibby succeeds Mrs. Ada B. Pillsbury as Execu-
tive Secretary of the Community Association.

Miss Frances White, formerly Superintendent
of Recreation in Morgantown, West Virginia, has
succeeded Miss Sylvia Weckesser as Superintend—
ent of Recreation in York, Pennsylvania. Miss
\Veckesser, who resigned to be married, will make
her home in England.

(Continued on page 256)

ATribute to Joseph Lee

 

DR. LAURENCE PEARSALL JACKS

AM ONE of those who venerate the memory of

Joseph Lee, on the one hand for the breadth,
depth and warmth of his humanity, on the other
for the single—minded devotion of his life to one
beneficent purpose. He was the friend of chil-
dren, and how could he better prove himself a
friend of God? The play of children was for him
one of the most precious things in the universe,
akin to the beauty of the flowers of the field,
which toil not—neither do they spin; and the
thought of the many children in America (as
elsewhere) whom a cruel fate has deprived of the
means to play filled him with the sense of an in-
tolerable evil. Nor was his care for the children
only, though I think they were ever foremost in
his mind. He would have all of us play wisely
and play well, no man, in his estimate, being
equipped for life until he has found a playground
for his soul. Surely a sound philosophy! And a
joyous one too! I will venture to call him one of
God’s playfellows, than whom God has no more
valuable servants, none more effective as His fel-
low workers, and none with a better title to mem-
bership in the Communion of Saints. The National
Recreation Association is fortunate in having
grown to maturity with such a man, not for its
President only, but for its presiding genius. May
I not call him so?

NOTE: This statement by Dr. Jacks, Editor, the Hib—
bcrt Journal, and former President of Manchester Col-
lege, Oxford, was prepared especially for National
Joseph Lee Day.

256 TWENTY-THREE AUTHORS AND THE YOUTH PROBLEM

DOnald VVardell has become Director of Rec-
reation in Waterloo, Iowa, succeeding Gordon R.

Speers who resigned.
Robert L. Horney, Superintendent of Recrea-

tion in Danville, Illinois, has resigned his position
to become Superintendent of Recreation in Dav—
enport, Iowa. George Fairhead, who has been the
Assistant District Supervisor for WPA in 11-
linois, has been appointed to the position of Su-
perintendent of Recreation in Danville to succeed
Mr. Horney.

Warren C. Smith, who has been assistant to
Robert Dixon as Recreation Superintendent in
Scranton, Pennsylvania, has succeeded Mr. Dixon
who has resigned to take charge of the recreation
program in Waverly, Pennsylvania.

Twenty-three Authors and the Youth Problem
( Continued from page 2.54)
rate for CCC youths than for all youths of the

same age group. Mr. Fechner believes that the
educational program, vocational guidance, train-
ing on the job and the camp experience itself,
have all contributed to making CCC youths more
employable, more self-reliant and better citizens
of the country.

Three articles included in this section review
briefly but effectively youth movements in this
country, youth labor services in Europe and gen-
eral government services to youth in the several
European countries which have made the greatest
progress along these lines. Thomas F. Neblett
traces the history of organizations in the United
States developed by youth for youth and as dis-
tinguished from agencies organized under adult
leadership but conducting programs for youth. In
presenting what youth groups have themselves ac-
complished Mr. N eblett points out that they still
lack a common dominating ideal around which
the enthusiasm of youth may center.

Kenneth Holland, after discussing labor camps
for youth, states that they provide opportunities
for work, education, and an outlet for the nat-
ural desire of youth for adventure and dangerous
living and have a permanent place in any social
program for youth. W. Thacher Winslow, who
has made a careful study of what is being done
for youth by European governments, believes that
this country can develop a sound program for
youth, free from the elements of regimentation
and political exploitation prevalent in some other
countries where youth programs have been or-
ganized on a large scale for political purposes.

“Leadership for Modern Youth” is discussed

by A. G. Knebel, who emphasizes the intangible
qualities of leadership so important in dealing
with youth. He feels that the present situation
f0r youth demands the best leadership if the re-
sponsibility of society for youth is to be met fully
and successfully. He writes: “Might one sum-
marize the kind of leadership needed by youth
today by saying that its chief function is to give
more and more persons opportunities to unfold
themselves by means of the aid they give to others
in their development?”

Research and References
The four chapters of this final section of the
report provide useful reference material on or-
ganizations serving youth, surveys on youth prob-
lems, and a bibliography of publications relating
to youth. One chapter is devoted to outlining the
procedure followed by the American Youth Com-

mission in its Maryland Youth Study.

Conclusion

This symposium is of unusual value and in-
cludes basic data and interpretations with which
every recreation worker should be familiar. Its
usefulness would have been enlarged if greater
recognition and emphasis had been given to the
local aspects of youth services and to the part
which local agencies, governmental and non-gov-
ernmental, must play in meeting present situations
adequately. All individuals and groups interested
in youth owe thanks to the Academy of Political
and Social Science for bringing together in one
volume so much of the fact information essential
to a proper understanding of the problems which
youth itself and society as a whole are facing as
a result of the impact of modern conditions of the
youth of our country.

A Training Course in Home Play
(Continued from page 213)
Results Encouraging
At the end of the training period, it is fully ex-
pected that the results of this venture will prove
worthy of extension. Even at the half way mark
we are receiving reports that are most encourag-
ing. We learn that there is less tension and less
irritation in the homes. Mothers welcome a re-
lease from periods of close supervision of their
little folks. It tested the ingenuity of our leaders
to adjust the proposed activities to the conditions
existing in these bandbox homes. Perhaps they
would not have succeeded so well were it not for
the clever ways and means suggested by the
junior leaders themselves.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 257

From these experiments in play in the home,
we hope to obtain a fairly deflnite technique in
method of approach, presentation of program and
sustaining of interest. It should be a rich contri—
bution of c00perative effort in carrying play into
the experience of all the people.

Handcraft on a Shoestring
( Continued from page 215)
laurels. More equipment was turned back at the
close of the season than ever before and in better
condition. Several groups have continued their
craft work by repairing toys for the Boy Scouts’
Christmas gift campaign.

We are going to follow the same program next
summer, and our Association believes it is an ex-
cellent idea to send a delegate to the next Recrea-
tion Congress. They have found that the ideas
brought back from the last Congress more than
paid for the delegate’s expenses.

Trailer Units for the Recreation Program
( Continued from page 216)

trailers are standard products of a local manu—
facturer, and no springs are used under the units.
This prevents a shifting of the platforms while in
use, and when there is weight on them. It will be
noted that all measurements comply with the Ohio
state laws concerning street requirements. Safety
trailer attachments are used for hauling, which is
done by a small half-ton truck. Both units were
built with perfect balance.

"Lindy" Started ltl
( C ontinned from page 219)

Quantity Dimension Cost
300—,I/3” x %5” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .45
100—%;” x V4” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .28

BALSA SHEETS (18” LONG)
20—1/32” x 2” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .15
40—1/16” x 2” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .36
20—1/38” x 2” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .23
10———-%,” x 2” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21

BALSA PLANKS (18” LONG)

2—2” x 3” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .36
4———-1” x 1%” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .20

1 dozen Balsa carved propellers 5”. .30
1 dozen bamboo strips,

1/16” x V,” x 15” . . . . . . . . . . .. .06

3 dozen hardwood nose plugs . . . . .. .15

1 quart cement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .75

3 dozen sheets Japanese tissue . . . . .. .36

225 feet brown rubber %” fiat . . . . . .. .50

100 feet piano wire .028 . . . . . . . . . . . .. .30

1 dozen small thrust bearings . . . . .. .06

l dazen large thrust bearings . . . . . . . .07

$5.59

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

  

 
   

MAGAZINES

Child Study, April 1938

This issue is devoted to play and playmates and con-
tains many helpful and interesting articles.

The W'omans Press, April 1938

Pilgrimage to W'as'hington (American Youth Con—
gress)

Health Education Bulletin, March 1938

A monthly bulletin issued by the Laboratory Divi-
sion of the National Board, Y.W.C.A. at $.25 per

copy

Child Study, May 1938

Athl/llletics and Aggression, by Laurence S. Kubie,
.D.

The Womans Press, May 1938
Arts as Avenues for Action, by Elizabeth Z. Farrow

Parks and Recreation, April 1938

Facilitating Winter Sports, by Albert H. Good
To Ascertain Trends in Fees and Charges
Winter Sports in Milwaukee County Parks,

by George Hansen
The Game of Marbles
Concerning Caddies, by Harry O’Hare

Nature Lore in the Parks, by Florence Kiefer and
C. E. O’Neal

Games Digest, May 1938

This issue contains some interesting new games and
parties.

The Camping Magazine, May 1938

Developing an Indigenous Camp Program, by Frank

H. Cheley _
Dramatizing the Camp Water Program, by “What
Edmond Longfellow

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, May 1938

College and University Outing Clubs, by Arthur S.

Daniels

Recreation in a Mental Hospital, by Alfred Kamm

An Experiment in International Education

Enriching the Aftersc‘hool Program, by William M.
Grimshaw

Editorial—mRecreation vs. Physical Education

Phi Delta Pi Camp for Underprivileged Children,
by Opal L. Sherburne

Safety in Athletics, by Floyd R. Eastwood

Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (A new game
for first and second grades)

Basketball Darts
Danish Rounders

Fun in the \Vater

The Nation’s Schools, May 1938

Camps of Today, by Herbert H. Twining
A Community Center, Too, by George A. Persell

Leisure, May 1938

Education for Leisure, by Claude V. Courter
Organizational Group Work, by C. E. Ward

Puzzles and Games

258 EXPLORING PRIMITIVE AREAS

 

PAMPHLETS

Survey on Community Recreation of Pittsfield, Mass.,

by Charles.K. Brightbill
Issued by the Pittsheld Chamber of Commerce

Self-Regulation in the Motion Picture Industry .
Annual Report of the Motion Picture Producers and
Distributors of America, Inc.. 1937 (New York
City)

Taming Our Forests
Forest Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture.

Available from Superintendent of Documents,
Washington, D. C. $.15.

What Forests Give

Forest Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture.

Available from Superintendent of Documents,
Washington, D. C. $.15.

A Prospectus Dealing with the Leisure-Time Problem
with Emphasis Placed on Program Building and the
Training of Workers, by B. G. Leighton .

Extension Dept, St. Louis County Rural Schools.
Virginia, Minnesota

Physical Education and Recreation, by Dorothea Leusch
Bureau of Parks, Portland, Oregon

Activities for the Year 1937
Annual Report of the Jewish Welfare Board

Annual Report of the Recreation Commission of High-

land Park. I” ichigan, 1936-1937

Nature Guide School of Massachusetts State College,
Amherst, Mass.

Summary Report of a Study of Summer Camps Con-

ducted by Boston Social Agencies and Other Organi-
zations, 1938

Boston Council of Social Agencies, 80 Federal Street.
Boston. $.15.

Exploring Primitive Areas
( Continued from page 221)
ing, the picturesque country of Fremont, Bonne-
ville and Bridger. Here, alpine flora and shim-
mering lakes break mountainous country in its
most rugged form.

Expedition No. 3—August I to August 14. The
mysteries of the Gila Wilderness of New Mexico
will be probed by the Trail Riders. Here the
riders will penetrate into the land of Pueblo
myths, and will descend into the canyon of the
Middle Fork of the Gila, where weird rock for-
mations of everchanging color are fantastic
objects. Then on down the trail of the Middle
Fork to visit hidden cliff dwellings.

Expedition No. 4—August 3 to August 16. For
the hrst time since their organization, the Trail
Riders will blaze trail into the Maroon Bells-
Snowmass Wilderness of Colorado. Still vastly
primitive country, it is the wilderness through
which runs Snowmass Lake of renowned beauty.
Through the land once inhabited by the Ute In-
dians, the riders will follow the trail of Chief
Ouray.

Expedition No. 5—August 4 to August 16. This
band of explorers will ride through the Sawtooth
National Forest of Idaho. An afternoon and
night will be spent at Sun Valley, famous for its
Winter sports. Then on to the country of deer
and elk, accessible only by trail.

Expedition No. 6—August 6 to August 19. The
bold Olympic Mountains of Washington, land of
many glaciers will lure the Trail Riders into ad-
venture. Here are enchanting forests rich in plant
and animal life. This is excellent game and fish-
ing country.

Expedition No. 7—August 19 to September 1.
Through the Kings River Wilderness of Cali-
fornia—another pioneer trip for the Trail Riders.
This is where the peaks of the High Sierras meet
the sky. The riders will explore parts of the Inyo,
Sierra and Sequoia National Forests — John
Muir’s country.

Each expedition is as completely organized as
any scientific party seeking fossils or lost cities,
with expert guides, packers, wranglers and cooks.
Foresters and botanists are along. 80 is a doctor.
Forest rangers will be in contact with each party.
An official of the American Forestry Association
serves as “boss wrangler” and party leader.

Skiing in the Straw

(Continued from page 224)

organize a permanent winter outing club and make
plans for week-end trips and social events.

A complete dry-skiing course should include,
besides calisthenics the following: normal and
crouch downhill positions, fall and stand-up.

YOU CAN DO IT! ' 259

level-skiing with and without poles, standing kick
and jump turns; side step, zigzag and herringbone
climbing; snowplow stop; snowplow, step, stem,
all Christianas, telemark, running jump turns;
Gelandesprung or obstacle jump; fence climbing;
skating and cross—country formations. The course
should also consider the care of equipment, wax-
ing for all snow conditions, and trail first—aid. The
teaching of distance jumping we leave to the
choice of the instructor, but we do not recommend
it for adults, particularly on straw, unless they
are qualified skiers.

Some General Suggestions

All turns and jumps should be made on the
slope and level, not on elevated runway. Simul-
taneous turns and jumps are limited only to the
height and length of the hill. Proceed gradually
from week to week with daily ski calisthenics at
home between sessions.

Straw skiing has its limits and should not be
accepted as a full substitute for snow. Used as de-
scribed, it equals the resistance of very wet snow
and is therefore, ideal for pre-season training.

Before you tackle fast snow on steep grades or
narrow trails, a few practice runs down easy
slopes will allow for timing adjustment. Casey
Jones literally fiew through the air when he trans-
ferred his activities from Sterling Park’s straw
hill to Boston Garden’s crushed-ice snow jump.
Group members on their first excursion to Bear
Mountain found hard-packed snow lighting fast
in comparison, but after ten weeks of hitting the
hay nothing bothered them.

The next time anyone remarks that lack of

snow is a drawback, or that it’s too far to the hills,'

or that week-end skiing is not worth the invest-
ment, or that they’re either too young or too old,
remember that anyone who can cross a busy street
safely can ski—with far less risk!

You Can Do It!

( C ontinued from page 226)

hundred postal cards to the parents of the chil-
dren in the dancing classes alone, asking their co-
operation; this was a key group in our estima-
tion. We used the argument in both articles and
talks that Oak Park had always stood for the wel-
fare of its children, and that it could not afford
to fail them now. It didn’t!

New Play Areas—
Their Design and Equipment

0 Since 1928, Play Areas—Their De-
sign and Equipment has been a guide
to recreation, park and school authori-
ties, and to city planners, landscape
architects and engineers in helping
them solve the technical problems in-
volved in the layout of play areas. In
ten years great advance has been
made in technical methods and pro-
cedures, necessitating a complete re-
vision of the book.

In its new and revised form, the vol-
ume should be standard equipment to
the designer, and as indispensable in
the drafting room as a T-square and
triangle. 4

Order from the National Recreation
Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New

York City.

. . . Price $3.00

 

Future Plans

And now, what are we going to do with this
doubled appropriation next year? We expect to
expand the general program; to put on a com-
munity-wide athletic program in the fall and win-
ter months; to extend our aviation and radio
classes; to replace a dramatic supervisor after an
absence of nine years; to decorate the grounds
with memorial fountains to characters made fa-
mous by the authors after whom the playgrounds
were named—James Barrie, Robert Louis Ste-
venson, Lewis Carroll, Eugene Field, and Hans
Anderson; to add murals and has-reliefs, and to
enlarge the play centers themselves. In other words
in 1939 we are hopeful of setting up a model pro—
gram, and of providing landscaped playgrounds
second to none in the country, both as to physical
facilities and to beauty.

Yes, miracles do happen, if you have the belief
in your past achievements that enables you to ap-
peal to your community with confidence.

260 “SO YOU’RE GOING” DOWN ROMANY ROAD

Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual

(I938 Edition. Vol. VI)

$3.00 Prepaid

O 220 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for Jrhose interested
in swimming poolsin any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
425 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders. etc..

payable Jro Earl K. Collins

 

"So You're Going" Down Romany Road

(Continued from page 228)
seven while traveling with his parents met with an
accident. The parents were soon able to return
home, leaving John for more than ten weeks a
patient little sufferer. Kind nurses and books
whiled away many a lonely hour. “Happiness and
contentment are skilled portrait painters,” and it
was then we were privileged to observe a monot-
onous convalescence turn to an eager interest in
books, for-within the pages of a book the whole
wide world is found.

The gypsy caravan for the two little shut-ins
visited the Land of Health where they found it
was necessary to obey its laws before one could
become a citizen. They met a new order, Knights
of the Round Table, crusaders in quest of health.
Finally they came to the end of the rainbow and
found the pot of gold to be the happiness of being
well. The lantern and slides used at the Saturday
morning camp fire were taken to the hospital, and
the pictures were shown to these children as well
as to any new patients. The superintendent was
most gracious in making it possible to make the
hospital visit in non-visiting hours. The showing
sometimes necessitated the moving of beds and
other assistance which was always so gladly given

by hospital employees. The pictures were thrown
on the wall, and the adults in the ward enjoyed
“Alice in \Vonderland” almost as much as John,
to say nothing of the nurses, while now and then
doctor and surgeon paused in their visits to listen.

Book therapy has become an important addi-
tion to health making; keeping children quiet and
in bed when they begin to feel better demands re-
sourcefulness. It is not always an easy matter to
find amusement that will not be harmful while
keeping the patient happy and providing fun and
interest.

Groups of Mothers See the Project

With the reopening of school the project was
presented before each Parent-Teacher group of
the city and a mother’s club. A colorful and ef-
fective gypsy camp was reproduced. Since music,
dancing and storytelling have always been a part
of every gypsy camp fire, there was singing and
the sound of accordions playing gay gypsy tunes
as the children gathered round to glowing embers
shouting “a Gudlo, a Gudlo,” that is, “a story.”
King Richard, believing in education for his peo-
ple, greeted his audience with “Sarishan,” the
gypsy word for “how do you do,” and told them
a story of Robert Francis Weatherbee by Munro
Leaf, a little boy “who would not go to school so
of course he did not learn anything.” The illus-
trations of the book had been reproduced upon a
large chart which the queen turned as the king
told the story. Queen Carolyn then presented the
diplomas. There was more storytelling, for gypsy
children love to tell stories, and the gypsy version
of “Jack and the Beanstalk” was given. There
was dancing, and finally softer, softer grew the
music, and one by one the children disappeared,
each calling “Cushty rati,” “Good night,” and all
was still. »

Finally the caravan went over the hill and dis-
appeared from sight. Perhaps it will come again
some other vacation time. May the children who
enjoyed it realize that as long as they keep the
wonder and joy of life they will always find ad—
venture awaiting them around each turn of the
road!

What Did It Leave for Us?

What did the caravan leave for us as the echo of
“Cashgar bok,” the gypsies’ farewell, or “Good
luck to you,” died into silence? It was the picture
of a young mother who believed in the work of
the library to the extent that nothing was quite so
important on Saturday morning as to get the chil-

PLAY IN A CHILDREN’S INSTITUTION 261

dren to the library to report on the books that
had been read during the week; who was never
too busy to scrub two little gypsies and see them
across the railroad tracks; to dress Ruth Ann in
her brightest dress so as to be able to see them
afar off on the return trip; to meet them again at
the tracks and see them safely home.

Who can doubt the joy of library work? More
than four hundred children registered for the
project; 225 diplomas were awarded and more
than four thousand books were read. The same
project was carried on through the main and
branch libraries.

Minimum Standards for Recreation
Facilities
(Continued from page 243)

Leadership

In order to secure the most effective use of
community recreation center, of this type, a staff
of full-time, year-round leadership personnel is
required, supplemented by part-time workers em-
ployed for specific activities and services, and
volunteers. Only by careful planning for the mul-
tiple use of the various features by different
groups can the maximum service from the center
be secured. Such a center will need an ample
budget in order that it may be adequately main-
tained and operated.

Applying a Treatment for
"Boy Trouble"

(Continued from page 244.)

the purpose of supplies and equipment, stock in
the boys’ center was put on the “market.” One
hundred shares were sold for $1.00 each—divi-
dends to be paid in the welfare and happiness of
the boys. By this method, and from the funds
raised by a boys’ rally to which the public was
invited and which included an open-air perform-
ance of boxing, wrestling and music, about $500
was secured as an operating budget.
The certificate read as follows:

THIS CERTIFTES THAT .............................................. ..

IS the owner of 100 Shares of Capital Stock in the
enjoyment of future happiness for healthful sport
and.recreation in the West Oakland Boys’ Rec-
reation Center and has fully paid for these shares
toward the betterment of said organization.

IN WITNESS THEREOF: the said organization
has caused this Certificate to be issued by its duly
authorized officers, giving said owner full privi-
leges to attend the first stockholders’ meeting
Friday, October 8, 1937, at 8:00 P. M. at the Rec-
reation Center, Fifth and Grove Streets, Oakland.
Boxing, wrestling, tap dancing, music.

A detachable coupon on the certificate gave the
name of ‘the person buying the stock, his address
and the name of the agent.

The first two months the center was open the
attendance averaged over 250 boys per evening.
The result was felt immediately by every agency
in the community. Instead of hanging about
street corners with nothing to do except to seek
amusement of the pool hall variety, the boys had
a place to go and enjoyed going there. The cen-
ter is now a member of the Boys’ Clubs of
America and has made for itself a permanent
place in the community. Those who took an active
part in the center’s organization are amply award-
ed by the satisfaction they feel when viewing an
evening’s program.

Play in a Children's Institution

(Continued from page 245.)

permitted to attend the out-of—town games.
Through the kindness of the managers of the dif-
ferent theaters we are invited to the shows each

week.

Hallowe’en is always an interesting time for us.
This year we formed committees, as for example,
an invitation committee on which the children
served. The boys and girls prepared the refresh-
ments, made their own costumes and prizes, and
took charge of the decorations. Each child in-

vited one guest.

Christmas is the big time of the year. The
children do a small amount of shopping in groups
or individually, learning the value of spending
money and the pleasure of giving as well as re-
ceiving. The after-holiday period centers about
winter sports, indoor games and club work.

During the year the children entertain the
Board members and teachers at a tea. Our early
spring program is a continuation of the winter
program, and during this period we‘hold a lawn
party, supper, and a program to raise funds for
use during the summer.

It is our hope that when our children leave us
to go to various positions they will be prepared
to meet life. Because of their recreational and
social contacts with the townspeople and with
various community organizations such as the
churches, library, Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A.. and
because of the knowledge they have gained
through their club experiences, they are better
equipped to meet situations in their new en—

’ vironment.

   

Indian and Camp Handicraft

By W. Ben. Hunt. The Bruce Publishing Company,
Milwaukee. $2 00.

U SE WHATEVER you can can getl” is the author’s slo-
gan throughout this book in which he describes
thirty projects in Indian craft developed especially for
Scout masters, camp leaders and club directors. And the
problem of tools is solved with equal simplicity since
many of the projects require no other tool than a pocket-
knife. All of the Indian lore introduced through the vari-
ous projects is authentic, the result of the author’s care-
ful study and research. There are many illustrations
which facilitate the making of the articles described.

|937 Year Book—Park and Recreation

Progress

National Park Service. United States Department of the
Interior. Superintendent of Documents, Washington,

D. C. $.25.
PARK AND RECREATION officials and all individuals in-

‘ terested in the widespread extension and development
of recreation areas and facilities which have taken place
since Federal assistance was made available as an emerg-
ency measure will find this book of great significance. It
presents a bird’s-eye view of many phases of municipal,
state and national park developments with information
on specific recreational activities, such as winter Sports,
hiking and camping. There is information on legisla-
tion and on the variOUS studies being made. A biblio-
graphy' is included.

Group Instruction in Social Dancing

By Edith Ballwebber. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $2.50.

HE UNDERLYING principles and forms of social danc-
ing are clearly analyzed in this book and the positions,
steps, combinations and sequences are described. The
text is graphically illustrated with clever feet designs.
Teachers of social dancing to large groups will find the
book exceedingly helpful. The lesson plans at the back

of the book will be particularly valuable in regular class
work.

Chess in an Hour

By Frank J. Marshall. Leisure League of America, New
York. $.25. '

II ANYBODY,” says the author, “can learn to play chess.
It is not such a difficult game as most people think.
You can learn the moves in fifteen minutes. In another
fifteen minutes you can get the idea of the game, and
you can play within the hour.” To give support to this
encouraging opinion, Mr. Marshall explains the game
briefly and gives frequent diagrams. The book with its
simple, concise language should ’be helpful to playground
directors who by teaching chess to children on the play-
grounds are augmenting the ranks of chess enthusiasts.

262

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

The New Y. M. C. A.
Aquatic Program

Editorial Committee: Professor Thomas K. Cureton, Jr.,
Chairman, Dr. John Brown, Jr. and John \V. Fuhrer.
Association Press, New York. $1.00.

IN MAY 1937 the Y.M.C.A. Aquatic Conference was held
in Chicago at George Williams College. Here a group

of aquatic leaders met in working sessions and joint as-
sembly to deliberate on the findings of sixteen research
committees. This book is the first permanent printed
volume resulting from the conference, and recreation
workers will find in the material submitted by these ex-
perienced officials much practical material.

The Tumbler’s Manual

By \Villiam R. LaPorte and Al G. Renner. Prentice-
Hall, Inc., New York. $3.00.

MORE THAN TWENTY instructors cooperated with the
authors in producing this manual on tumbling which
offers a group of tested progressively arranged tumbling
stunts with directions for their execution. An interesting
feature of the book is the 136 illustrations and 35 group
stunt diagrams. The illustrations were reproduced in
line from slow motion pictures and are so arranged as to
show the complete sequence of positions for each stunt.
The manual discusses such topics as teaching and safety
techniques in their relation to equipment, instructors and
performers.

Physical Education Play Activities for
Girls in Junior and Senior

High Schools

By Therese Powdermaker. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $3.00.

THE PRlMARY PURPOSE of this book is to help women
graduates in physical education as they enter into their
first year of teaching. With this in mind the material
presented has been condensed and organized so that it
can be quickly read, and no activities requiring great skill
have been included. The subject matter is divided as fol-
lows: Organization and Administration, Self—testing Ac-
tivities, Games, Coaching Hints‘and Technique for Game
Skills, and Swimming. The illustrations by Kate Rolland
are particularly attractive.

Handbook of Recreational Games

and Sports—l937-l938
Spalding’s Athetic Library No. 115R. $.25.
THIS BOOK is divided into twelve sections as follows:
Introduction, Games for Large Groups in Small
Spaces, Group Games, Sidewalk Games, Recreational
Sports and Games, Suggestions for the Teaching of Rec-
reational Sports in Large Class Groups, Suggestions for

NEPV PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD 263

Adapting Individual and Dual Sports to Home Use,
Suggestions on the Adaptation of Recreational Games
and Sports for Various Types of Programs and Situa-
tions, Technique and Teaching Suggestions, Suggestions
for Making Equipment, Bibliography and Track and
Field—Individual Athletic Activities (Official Rules, etc.,
Chart of Details of Competition, Coaching Hints, Sample
Score Sheets, Bibliography, Form of Blank for Record—
ing Maximum Performances, etc.)

This is a usable, practical book that should be in the
libraries of physical education and recreation workers.

Children and Radio Programs.
By Azriel L. Eisenberg, Columbia University Press,
New York City.

Children and Radio Programs is a study of more than
3,000 children in New York and the metropolitan area.
It discusses the development of children’s radio programs,
the listening activities of children, the reaction of chil-
dren to certain programs—the programs they like best,
the programs that keep them awake at night, the pro-
grams that make them dream at night, and the programs
from which they learn specific things. There are num-
erous tables indicating the wishes of children in selecting
programs, and the popularity of programs. One of the
interesting tables describes what other things children do
while they are listening to the radio. An appendix to
the volume describes sixty—seven programs which were
mentioned by one per cent or more of the children. It is
well wortha few hours’ time of a recreation leader in
looking through a library copy of this volume.

1938 Swimming Pool Data and Reference Annual.

Hoffman, Harris, Inc., 425 Fourth Avenue, New
York. $3.00.

Volume Six of the Swimming Pool Data and Refer-
ence Annual contains a number of articles on the con—
struction, maintenance and administration of swimming
pools which will be valuable for recreation authorities
maintaining such facilities. Among these are “Standards
for the Design and Operation of Pools” by Earl K. Col-
lins: “Suggestions for Aquatic Programs”; “Public
Health and Safety Features in Constructing Pools,” and
“Swimming Stunts” by Katharine W. Curtis.

Songs and Pictures by a Child.

Arranged by Doreen Bland. The Paisley Press, Inc.,
New York. $2.00.

This delightful book is made up of poems and draw-
ings made .by a child between the ages of three and a
half and five and a half years who from his earlier days
has been encouraged to seek beauty and natural things.
The poems were not written as such. They are in reality
songs chanted by the child himself and taken down un—
observed by his parents. Quite apart from any merit in
the work itself, it has the advantage of being a true
record of a child’s ‘preschool efforts and as such is par-
ticularly interesting.

The Art of the Story-Teller.
By Marie L. Shedlock. D. Appleton-Century Com-
pany, Incorporated, New York. $2.25.

Miss Shedlock’s book has long been a classic in its
field, and its value has been proven by the test of time.
As in the earlier edition, the revised' edition presents all
the essentials of good story-telling, explains what to avoid
and what to seek in the choice of stories, and tells how
to obtain and maintain the effect of a story. The list of
stories and books has, however, been completely changed
and a new list by Mary Gould Davis, in charge of story-
telling at the New York Public Library, has been sub—
stituted. Included in Miss Gould’s list are the best of the
classics and of contemporary tales.

The Big Apple.
By Mignon Q. Lott. Pentagon Court, Baton Rouge.

La. $.50.

If you_need an appropriate program for a rural group.
are seeking a theme for a party with games and stunts

“to match” or are running a Big Apple dance, you will
find many helpful suggestions in this 23—page booklet
which contains games, contests, stunts and songs all built
upon apples as a theme. Suggestions are also included
for adapting these activities to various groups or types
of programs.

Official Baseball Guide1938.
Spalding’s Athletic Library. No. 322. $.35.
In addition to the ofi‘icial rules, there are many records
and scores, together with accounts of tournaments and
league meetings.

lilow to Draw What You See.
By Norman Moore. Hillmann—Curl, Inc., New York.

$1.50.

The problem of learning to draw, according to Mr.
Moore, is as direct and simple as learning to typewrite
or to drive a car. “Learning to draw what you see
teaches you to look more and better—the more you look
the more you see, and the more you see the more you will
want to pl’l’t down your optical adventures in a record of

your own. The practical suggestions Mr. Moore has to
offer should be exceedingly helpful to the artist.

The Girl Reserve Movement of the Young

Women’s Christian Association.
By Catherine S. Vance, Ph.D. Bureau of Publica-
tions, Teachers College, Columbia University, New
York. $1.85.

Many social and economic changes which are taking
place are focusing attention on youth, and many circum-
stances are challenging us to the study of organized
groups among young people. The evaluation which Dr.
Vance presents of the Girl Reserve movement throws a
great deal of light on problems with which all leaders of
young peOple are concerned.

The Library Trustee.
Prepared by Anna Gertrude Hall. American Library
Association, Chicago, Illinois. $2.35.

In this book the American Library Association pre-
sents answers to many of the perplexing questions which
arise in the relationships among library boards and li-
braries, municipal authorities and the public. The board's
selections, organization and powers; its responsibilities
to the library from the standpoint of personnel, finances
and administration; its responsibilities to the community,
and its leadership in state and national library affairs are
the main headings under which the material has been
organized. Two or three typical dockets for board meet-
ings, sample constitution and by-laws, and a bibliography
are included in the appendix.

Your National Capital—Seventy-Fifth Congress.
International Bank, 726 Jackson Place, \Vashington,
D. C. $.25.

This souvenir :book of WashingtOn and the Seventy-
fifth Congress with its fifty views of buildings and places
of historic interest in and around the nation’s capital,
together with other photographs and a number of ar-
ticles, was previously offered at much more than this.

The Trailer for Pleasure and Business.
By Winfield A. Kimball and W. Livingston Larned.
Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill Book Company,
Inc., New York. $2.50.

Here is another book to augment the rapidly growing
library of literature on trailers. In it the authors supply
complete and specific information as to the best types of
trailers on the market, desirable equipment, where and
how to camp, hints on trailer housekeeping, travel routes,
laws and regulations affecting trailers, and many other

topics.

Personality Adjustment of the
Elementary-School Child.
Department of Elementary School Principals, 1201
Sixteenth Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. $2.00.
The fifteenth Yearbook of the Department of Ele—

264 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

mentary School Principals of the N.E.A. is devoted to a
discussion of the nature of growing children, many en-
vironmental factors which infiuence pupil adjustment, and
the methods of diagnosing and correcting maladjustments.
A large number of child guidance specialists contributed
articles on special topics, and in addition several selected
contributions by school people were included. “There is
need,” says Harley W. Lyon, president of the Depart—
ment, in a foreword, “for study and for interpretation of
behavior in the light of child nature and of social con-
ditions. Childhood is the period of greatest opportunity
for personality adjustment. The child’s adjustment to his
fellows, to his school, and to his home, and to his com-
munity will often determine his adjustment to and his
place in adult life.”

Youth in the Toils.
By Leonard V. Harrison and Pryor McNeill Grant.
The Macmillan Company, New York. $1.50.

In this consideration of the delinquency problem in
New York City and of the system now used in dealing
with the delinquent hey, the authors have gone beyond
a mere statement of facts. They have made concrete and
constructive recommendations as to what might be done
to improve conditions. The inclusion of the actual stories
of a number of delinquent boys makes this a challenging
presentation of a very real social problem which exists
in substantially the same form in every large city of the
country.

Government Statistics.

Bulletin 26. Social Science Research Council, 230
Park Avenue, New York. $1.00.

In June 1933, the American Statistical Association and
the Social Science Research Council organized a Commit-
tee on Government Statistics and Information Services.
In this volume the committee offers a report of its study
which refers primarily to the status of government sta-
tistics at the termination of the committee’s work on
January 1, 1935. Throughout its work the committee un-
dertook to examine the statistical services as it found
them without evaluating in any way the appropriateness
of government activity per se in the various fields under
observation.

Reading Character From Handwriting.

By Dorothy Sara. oLeisure League of America, New
York. $.25.

The “sport” of reading handwriting is not a new one
for the first known book on the subject was written about
1630. This more modern version of the subject will give
you the secret of reading character traits in handwriting.

The Modern Kindergarten.

Association for Childhood Education, 1201 Sixteenth
St., N. W., Washington, D. C. $.35.

The purpose of this bulletin is to set forth the educa-
tional implications of modern kindergarten procedures,
materials and activities for the benefit of uninformed
school administrators and parents and, at the same time,
to Offer something of practical value to teachers in the
field. To this end a model kindergarten is described in
informal, narrative style and ways of keeping it clean
and attractive suggested. Four- and five-year-old groups
are depicted in action and the procedures and activities
interpreted as to a visiting mother. The nature of the
teacher’s preliminary planning is suggested as well as

ways of securing cooperation between parents and
teachers.

Bibliography of Research Studies in
Education —1935-1936.

gagerintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.

A yearly service of the Library Division of the Ofiice
of Education, United States Department of the Interior,
15 the publication of a bibliography of research studies in
education. This, the tenth bibliography, covers the school
year from September 1935 through August 1936 and lists

3,182 studies. Studies of the use of leisure, play and rec-

reation, .playgrounds and equipment, and playground
superv1s10n are listed.

Ourselves and Others.

By Emily Veazie Clapp. The Womans Press, New
York. $.65.

This booklet is a work book on the subject of personal
relationships. It is planned for the use of the adviser who
needs help in developing a series of discussions around
the various interests of older girls which are included in
the general phrase “personal relations.” Questions are
provided for discussion, devices are suggested to help the
less articulate in the group express opinion, and books
for both the girl and the adviser to read are listed.
Recreation leaders interested in developing discussion
groups among Older girls will find this booklet helpful.

Physical Education in Germany.

By John Dambach, Ph.D. Bureau of Publications,
glegahers College, Columbia University, New York.
This study is full of first-hand facts and material that
will be of special interest to the student of the history of
physical education. It traces physical education in Ger-
many for over a century, from 1807 to 1935. It deals with
movements rather than with men and interprets the social
and political forces that shape physical education in that
country. The book forms a basis for understanding
physical education in this country and is also a contri-
bution to the field of comparative education. It contains
original material and is up-to—date with information re-
garding present-day Germany. It has a worthwhile
bibliography.

 

 

OHicers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS
JOHN H. FINLEY, President
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS
F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.‘
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan Cty, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDON, Lndianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.
I. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIREN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, \Vashingtou, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C. .

