 

UHth

I” 5&5 LI". ‘ l

As Seen by Your Dog

Who are you really?

What are you?

What can you do?

What does your dog see in you?

What does your little child think of you?

Do dogs and little children like to be with you?

Can you pitch an outcurve ball?

Can you sail?

Can you paddle a canoe through the rapids?
Do you garden?

Can you play the violin?

Can you swim?

Can you climb a mountain, a real mountain?
Can you paint a picture?

Can you tell a story?

VVell—what can you do—besides just earn a living, or clip coupons?
That’s something of course.

But it does not count much with your young child or with the dog.
The dog may be partly right at that. ‘

Can you teach a dog tricks?

Can you ride horseback?

Can you golf?

Can you make a willow whistle?

Do you know the sassafras root?

And the wintergreen berries—and worse luck, the spruce gum?

Just to be able to wiggle your ears counts a little in making you really a person
to your young child.

Just being a good worker is not enough to make you a good companion to your
child or to yourself.

Being able to do useless things makes a man out of you.

It is Worth while to be a good companion to your dog,-——-—and to yourself.

What are you to your child and your dog?
Not What have you.

Not what do you know.

What are you to yourself?

A good companion?

Alone in the twilight, perhaps with your pipe,
Have you found peace?

Can you sit still?

Is there anyone home?

Have you learned to live?

Have the years brought a richly satisfying life?
What does your dog think about it?

Your dog knows.

A final test of all our play and recreation systems.

In the end when men and women go West—

What light is in the eye?

What of good cheer, of courage, of truth and sureness, of maturity and rich
fulness of living?

What of comradeship with horses and dogs, and children and people and all
the wide world?

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

NOVEMBER, |938

434

 

 

EvansvilleI Indiana, last year
celebrated Christmas in a novel
way when it inaugurated a Santa
Claus parade on a large scale.
It all started when the repre-
-sentatives of the Recreation
Department attending the Mid-
west Recreation Conference
saw a colored movie of the
Santa Claus parade sponsored
by the Lincoln. Nebraska. Rec-
reation Board. Borrowing the
film' the Evansville representa-
tives showed it to some of their
merchants and city officials. who
were enthusiastic over the idea
of having a similar parade.

Santa Claus and His Fairyland on Parade

and get the necessary ma-
terial?” “Where is the
labor to come from?” .
These were some of the questions we faced in
1937 in planning for our Santa Claus parade.

ul low CAN we raise the money -

Our first step was to get in touch with the-

VVorks Progress Administration who agreed to
cooperate in every way possible by furnishing all
the personnel for the making of the various floats,
figures and costumes, and by putting on several
extra men for the period so that the parade would
be ready in time. The Retail Merchants Bureau
gave us $1,000 for materials and supplies and for
the transportation of bands.

The Mayor and the city officials, including the
Park Board under which the Recreation Depart-
ment functions, whole-heartedly endorsed the
Christmas idea and agreed to support it, believ-
ing that it would not only be a source of great
enjoyment to the city and residents of the Tri—
State, but would emphasize the city’s position as
metropolis of the area and help develop a real
community spirit around Christmas time.

Having decided that the Christmas parade was
to be held, and with personnel and materials and
supplies assured, the next step was a hurried trip
to Lincoln, Nebraska, with five members of the
staff to familiarize ourselves with all the details
involved. With only six weeks in which to com-

By JAMES R. NEWCOM
City Recreation Director
. Evansville' Indiana

plete our plans, it was necessary
to start our activities immediately.

A workshop was set up at the
community center, and we were
able to secure the use of an old unoccupied build-
ing for the construction of the floats, papier—
maché figures, heads and costumes. The making
of the floats and figures was started at once by
WPA and NYA.

The Mayor appointed an executive citizens’
committee to work with the Recreation Depart-
ment, WPA and NYA. This c0mmittee was
selected from various organizations in the city,
representing as many of them as possible and
covering the various sections of .the city. One of
the responsibilities of the committee was to bring
the parade to the attention of the public. The city
and parochial schools cooperated in every way
possible by furnishing personnel for our execu-
tive committee, bands, and children to wear the
papier-maché heads and costumes. It is impossi-
ble to, say too much for the work done by the
executive committee and its very ambitious chair-
man who worked day and night for three weeks
before the parade.

The Characters

In order that the floats and figures would have
meaning for the people watching the parade, it
was decided that the theme should be the story

435

436 SANTA CLAUS AND HIS FAIRYLAND ON PARADE

book and comic strip characters with which every—
one .was familiar.

-. Our purpose was to make inexpensive floats
and figures which would tower in the air as high
as the trolley lines would permit. Thirteen floats
and 125 papier—machwé heads with their colorful
costumes were made. The-Hoats were constructed
chiefly from thin plywood and bamboo which
were secured" from old rug poles and boxes of
various kinds. These were all covered with papier-
maché and painted with oil paints to make them
waterproof.

There was “Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary,” rep-
resented by a large fiower garden with flowers of
many kinds made from crépe paper. The spirit
of Christmas was exemplified by an attractive
little church mounted on wheels, bearing a Christ-
mas tree and accompanied by a marching unit of
youthful Christmas carolers.

Six large figures, some of them fifteen and a half
feet high, leaving barely enough room to get
under the trolley wires, included the colossal King
and Queen of Hearts, a gigantic Mother Goose
moving along on rollers propelled by marchers
concealed by her billowing skirts, and an equally
large 01d King Cole. Trail-
ingwthe parade was a huge
figure of Pop Eye, the Sailor
Man, with one eye, a pipe
and all his accessories. These
large figures were made for
the most part of bamboo
framework-on a round base
of wood, approximately eight
feet across with rollers on the
bottomp The entire frame-
work was first covered with
burlap and the costume was
then sewed on to the figure.
A.llarge papier-maché head
placed on top and completing
the figure would turn from
one side to the other. The
huge papier-maché hands and
arms, which moved up and
down, were manipulated by
two men on the inside con-
cealed by the colorful cos—
tumes. These figures, which
everyone found .most- enter-
taining, were,’ very. inexpen-
s1ve. ‘ 

Thr- workshop where api-

Presen’ring Lil' Abner and Mammy Yocum
ready to take Jrheir places in the march

 

proximately 125 papier—maché heads were made
by the WPA and NYA workers was a very busy
place. About fifty frames were made and two
sculptors were put to work modeling the heads
out of clay. VVPA and NYA workers applied the
many layers of paper necessary—in itself a
lengthy process. At one time there were fifty
heads «under construction on these frames, and
the process was managed in the manner of a pro-
duction line in a factory. Some workers were
putting on first layers of paper; some second lay-
ers, and others third, while another group of
workers was removing the clay bases. Eventu-
ally the head moved into the paint shop where
the face and features were painted, giving a very
lifelike appearance.

After the paint was thoroughly dry, the head
or figure went down to the costume room where
the costume was fitted to it. All of the costumes

'were prepared under the directionof the assist-

ant recreation director, and each was designed in

keeping with the character it was to adorn. It

was something of a task to make the costumes

for the large figures; the costume and train for

the Queen of Hearts alone required over a hun-
dred yards of material.

The Parade Starts !

After working day and
night for approximately six
weeks, the workers were
ready to present the parade
to the public and the Christ-
mas season was opened at
10:00 A. M., the morning
after Thanksgiving. Threat-
ening gray skies and a chilly,
damp atmosphere were ig-
nored as 50,000: Evansville
and Tri-State residents, chil-
dren and adults alike, packed
the sidewalks along the thirty
block line of march to watch
the fabled story book and
comic strip characters come
to life and join the march led
by St. Nick. According. to
the newspapers it was the
largest group ever to assem-
ble at one time in Evansville.

Planning for 1938
Immediate] y after the parade
it was decided to make it an

SANTA CLAUS AND HIS FAIRYLAND ON PARADE 437

annual event and to present it
each year to Evansville and the
Tri-State on the day after
Thanksgiving. Plans are rapidly
progressing on the 1938 parade.
and many improvements have
been made. The motif of the
parade will be the same as the
last ;_ the new figures, however,
will be much larger. Gulliver of Gulliver’s
Travels is fifty-five feet in length, with a head of
approximately eight feet high and hands six feet
long. The figure is made of very light frame—
work composed chiefly of scrap lumber covered
with burlap. A very colorful costume completes
the ensemble. Gulliver will be wheeled down the
street on a chassis made of salvaged automobiles
drawn by four Shetland ponies. He will be on his
back with his hands and feet tied with ropes held
by small children walking alongside of the figure
to represent the Lilliputians. A man riding on
the inside of the big figure will turn the head
from one side to the other to represent Gulliver
attempting to break the ropes.

This year we shall have a largelfioat~thirty-
five feet long representing Santa Claus, his sleigh
and eight reindeer. With the exception of the
sleigh, the entire unit will be made of papier—
méiché, painted white and covered with silver me~
tallic to give a shiny effect. Other floats made on
car frames will include Dinny on a framework
similar to that prepared for Gulliver and mounted
on a car, with mouth and lower jaw moving up
and down, and a rocket ship of similar construc-
tion to that of Noah’s Ark and the Toonerville
trolley.

This year, as an added attraction which Will be
unveiled a week after the parade, we plan to have
a large papier-mz’iché Santa Claus twenty-one feet
high who will shake his head “No.” A public ad-
dress system will be installed in Santa, and he
will be able to talk and answer questions from the
boys and girls. A large papier—maché bag on the
right side of Santa Claus will hold two people.
From their places of concealment they will ma-
nipulate Santa and talk for him.

Everyone Enjoyed It

We believe that last year’s parade was a suc-
cess from every point of view. The people who
watched it from the side lines thoroughly ene
joyed it. A spectator from a neighboring city
wrote one of the local newspapers and the recre—

Mr. Newcom writes: "We are always
happy to help any cities planning
for a Santa Claus parade similar
to ours. and we especially invite
delegations from interested com-
munities to come to see our ma-
terial and equipment. Only in this
way can they get a clear idea of
the organization involved.".

ation director requesting that
the parade be repeated at night
at a later date so that more peo-
ple of the Tri-State could enjoy
it. The WPA, NYA and Rec-
reation Department workers
who had so important a part. in
preparing for the parade be-
came absorbed in it. WPA and
NYA workers received much praise for the major
part they played in the activity.

Newspapers were generous with their publicity,
especially with their photographs and their cov—
erage of the various developments in the pre-
liminary stages of the work. On the day of the
parade one newspaper carried one large cartoon
on the front page and two smaller ones. The
afternoon paper on the same day devoted about
half of its front page and all of its second and
third pages to photographs and articles describing
the parade. Both papers gave front page stream-
ers on the day before the parade and on the day
it occurred. Radio officials cooperated in every
way even to the extent of writing plays which
were put on the air several weeks before the
parade and which lasted from fifteen to thirty
minutes. A proclamation by the Mayor in behalf
of Santa Claus and his fairyland on parade was
issued which appeared in the newspapers .the Sun*
day before the parade.

The municipalities of all Tri—State towns with-
in a hundred miles radius of Evansville were re-
quested by_ the Evansville Mayor to appoint
“junior mayors” and “first ladies,” boys and girls
between the ages of ten and fourteen years of age,
to represent- them at the Santa Claus parade. A
special reviewing stand along the line of march
was arranged for this group of children who in
most instances were accompanied by the mayors
of the Tri‘State towns. This tended to create a
closer relationship with the official families in
communities near Evansville. _

A second special section on the line of march
was reserved for cars for crippled and shut-ins.
This was greatly appreciated as evidenced by the
letters received by the committee.

Much Interest Aroused

It was decided from the very start that all
figures used in the parade would not appear at
any other time, for we believe that if people see
something only once a year it will be fresh and

( Continued on page 478)

The Pittsburgh Recreation Congress

HE PITTSBURGH Recreation
Congress was in a very real

. sense a mobilization of the
recreation forces of America.
This was true in numbers, in agency representa-
tion, in problems considered, and above all in
revelation of the inner spirit of the recreation
movement.

No one who paused even for a brief period in
the corridors of the \Villiam Penn Hotel during
the week of October 3rd and watched the dele-
gates eagerly and purposefully availing them-
selves of the varied opportunities offered could
fail to be impressed with the fact that here was a
gathering truly and happily dedicated to a high
purpose.

In numbers the Pittsburgh Congress exceeded
all others. Over fourteen hundred delegates from
thirty-eight states and nearly three hundred cities
were present. Perhaps never before has the
agency representation been more varied. The
stake that America has in its recreation movement
is rather clearly indicated when one realizes how
many groupings in our political, social, economic
and religious life were interested enough to have
active participation in the Congress.

The main concern or reason for the Congress
was not in itself new'. The problem faced—
“Search for the Good Life”——.was an age-old one.
But the stirring realization that America. has in
its national recreation movement an implementa-
tion' of the aspirations, skills and purposes that
satisfy fundamental "human needs, added weight
and zest to the discussion of practical ways and
means of its further extension.

The inner spirit of a movement is hard to de-
scribe. It must be felt. Yet certain characteris-
tics stood out. The seriousness of purpose was
manifested throughout the week. Meetings—-—over
fifty in number—were attended to capacity. There
was little coming and going
during meetings. Discussions
continued until the bell rang.
Additional meetings were ar—
ranged and discussions were
continued at luncheons and
dinners.

In the Consultation \Vork—
shop, where specialists were,

438

By T. E. RIVERS

Secretary
Recreation Congress Committee

The Twenty-Third National Recreation
Congress was held in Pittsburgh. Pa..
during the week of October the third.
Friends of the recreation movement
who were unable to be present. as well
as the delegates attending. will wel-
come the information that the Congress
Proceedings. in printed form. will ap-
pear early in Noyaember. Price $l.00.

available to give help on indi-
vidual problems, six hundred
and eighty-four scheduled con-
ferences took place and the ma-
terial display for study by the delegates was in use
from eight o’clock in the morning until midnight.
The afternoons were crowded with additional
meetings, discussion groups, and special demon-
strations. The showing of motion pictures of local
recreation programs aroused much interest.

This obvious seriousness of purpose in no way
interfered with the joyous spirit that permeated
the group and expressed itself in folk dances, sing-
ing, and games. Time was reserved each evening
for games and dancing, and there were afternoon
sessions at which folk dancing, square dancing.
and other old—time dances were taught. Ralph B.
Tefferteller of the Highlander Folk School at
Monteagle, Tennessee, directed the Monday eve-
ning Play Hour and other recreation periods. One
evening was set aside for social dancing.

Pittsburin received the Congress royally. The
adequacy of the hotel facilities, the cooperation of
the Convention Bureau, the wholehearted backing
of Pittsburgh’s Mayor, Honorable Cornelius D.
Scully, and his entire administration, together
with the active cooperation of social, civic, and
business agencies, added greatly to its success.
Many trips were planned by the local arrangement
committee for the delegates who were given every
opportunity to see the parks and local recreation
centers, Mellon Institute, the University of Pitts-
burgh. Carnegie Institute of Technology, the
Irene Kaufmann Settlement, and other local in-
stitutions. Trips were also planned to such na-
tionally known industries as the \Vestinghouse
Company and the steel plants. Nothing was left
undone for the comfort and enjoyment of the
city’s guests.

A Recreation Congress may mean many differ-
ent things to different people.
However; certain emphases
stand out clearly as we think
of the Pittsburgh meeting.
F ir-st, that the recreation move-
ment offers unusual opportuni-
ties for public-spirited laymen
and volunteers and that its

(Continued on. page i479)

Promoting Thanksgiving Sociability

Compiled by

JULIA, ANNE ROGERS
National Recreation Association

NE 01? THE things that people want most at
0 Thanksgiving is sociability. They want to
share the holiday joy that bubbles up in
them—a joy as old as the change of seasons and
the heaped fruits of the harvest. But busy, re-
pressed individuals sometimes do not eXpress the
full spirit of fun and fellowship that is in them
unless some skillful host or hostess draws it forth.
Such a host or hostess, it will usually be found,
does not leave the matter of entertainment to
chance. He or she plans games, stunts or a pro-
gram suited to the group he has to entertain. As
a possible help to program planners, we are of-
fering suggestions for three types of entertain-
ment that will be in demand around Thanksgiving
tune.

Thanksgiving Sociability at Home

Thanksgiving sociability in the home begins
around the festive dinner table. But it does not
end there. The first step in the Thanksgiving
social program at heme may well be coffee in the
living-room, after dinner. (If this is not an every-
day custom, it lends a gala touch to the occasion.)
Coffee may be served from a coffee table in demi-
tasses, or handed round by the children, in gener-
ous cups. Relaxed-and cheered by the first sip of
coffee, the family is ready for the first little stunt.

Fortune Telling. Hold a lump of sUgar (the
oblong, not square kind) upright in a teaspoon.
Lower it into the hot coffee, making a wish at the
same time. If the sugar falls forward, the wish
will come true; if backward, it will not.

Aunt Hattie's Thanksgiving
Dinner Game. “I went to Aunt
Hattie’s for Thanksgiving din—
11er and I had ham for dinner,”,
says the first player. The next
player repeats “I went to Aunt
Hattie’s for Thanksgiving din-
ner” and adds “and I ‘had mush
'for dinner.” Qr he might Say

ThanksgivingI with its many color-
ful. seasonal traditions. is. natural-
lyI a time of great sociability. It is
a time when home ties are renew-
ed and friendships strengthened._
To promote sociability at the" fall
festival. a planned program of rec-
reation and‘entertainment isa great
help in deepening the day's values. ers)

 

Once a year King Turkey reigns in homes
and holds court at Thanksgiving parties

r

he had mulberries, or macaroni. The idea {£10
mention some food that begins with the last letter
of the word which the previous player has said.

Huckle, Buckle. Bean Stalk. One half of players
leave the room. The others hide some small object,
placing it in plain sight, but where it would not be
likely to be seen, as on the tap of a picture frame,
in a corner on the floor, or behind the steam pipe.
It may be placed behind any other object, so long
as it may be seen there without moving any object.
When the object has been placed, the players are
recalled and all begin the hunt. As soon as one
spies the hidden object, he goes at once to his
seat saying “Huckle, buckle, bean stalk!” This in-—
dicates to the group that he has discovered it.
When all have discovered the, object, the other
half of the players go out of the room, and the
person who found the object first proceeds to hide
it. The game continues till everyone has had a
chance to locate the hidden article.

Guessing Contest (written)

Part of a turkey that assists a lady in dressing?
(comb)

Part of a turkey that opens the front door? (last
part—key) '

Part of a turkey that, appears
after Thanksgiving? (bill)

Part of a turkey that is part of

s"

. a.
‘ a sentence? (claws—clause)

Part of.- a turkey that is used
. . - 3 ° . .
for (leaning. (wmgs v — (lustv

439

440

Part of a turkey that the farmer watches care-
fully? (crop)

Part of a turkey that is an oriental? (first part——
Turk)

Why ought the turkey be ashamed? (We see the
turkey dressing) -

Why is a fast eater like a turkey? (Both are

gobblers)
What color gets its name from a turkey? (Tur-

key red)

When the turkey is cooking what country is he
in? (Greece)

What part of a turkey is a story? (tail—tale)

What part of the turkey appears on the battle-
field? (drumstick)

Apple Walk. A prize (candy turkey
or other trifle) is offered for this stunt.
Each member of the group, one by one,
is given an apple and told to walk the
length of the room with the apple on his
head. Those who fail are out. If more
than one succeeds in doing it, hold an
elimination contest. Line up the two or
three successful ones and have them
walk side—by—side. It is great fun to see
dignified Uncle Henry pussyfooting gin-
gerly along with an apple perched on
his bald Spot!

Nut Bowling. For this game
adjourn to the game room or
to the dining-room where the
table must be cleared. Set up
ten large peanuts fixed to
stand up on three short tooth-
pick legs. Divide the com— I
pany into two teams. Players
stand six to ten feet from the table and roll wal-
nuts to bowl over as many of the upstanding pea-
nuts as possible. Regular bowling scores, (spares,
strikes) may be used, or a point given for .each
peanut knocked down. The team score and indiv
vidual high score may be suitably rewarded-—

(From Cooperative Recreation Service.)

Other games that may be played at home are
parchesi, crossword lexicon, dart—throwing, ring
toss, indoor croquet.

The home celebration should end with singing
around the piano and roasting chestnut or pop-
ping corn. (The Golden Book of Favorite Songs,
which may be ordered from the National Recrea-
tion Association for twenty cents, is one of the
inexpensive booklets appr0priate for home use.)

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Uncle Henry pussyfoots ginger-
ly with an apple on his head!

PROMOTING THANKSGIVING SOCIABILITY

Sociability in the Small Thanksgiving Party

While the winter season is still bright as a new
penny, and before winter parties have been over-
done, an enterprising hostess pr small club will
issue invitations for a small Thanksgiving party.
The following party is for from twelve to thirty
adults.

Decorations -and Invitations. Chrysanthemums,
marigolds and autumn leaves should be massed
about the room in baskets, jars and on the man-
tlepiece. Of course, let there be a fire in the fire-
place, if there is one. Paper streamers of yellow
and brown may be hung from the ceiling; and

“Alsilhouettes of squirrels, pumpkins and turkeys cut

from brown and yellow paper may be
pinned to window curtains. Paper
shields of yellow, brown and red crépc
paper may cover the lights.

The following invitation is sent out:
A THANKSGIVING PARTY is now being

planned
For which it is hoped that you’ll be on
hand.
Don’t let bad weather keep you away
And remember, the . . . . . . ..’s the day.
Time:
Place:
Date:

Thanksgiving Dinner. Open-
ing get-acquainted game for
party. Paste on sheets of type-
writer-size paper pictures of
different foods cut from maga—
zines. Have guests form a cir-
_ cle and pin one of these- sheets
on the back of each. Give each guest pencil and ,
paper. Stand in center of circle and eXplain that at
a signal group breaks rank and each person tries
to see and list as many of the foods as possible.
Each player tries to keep the rest from seeing his
picture, but he may not hide it by leaning against
anything. Signal when the game is over. Each
player counts the number of foods he has identi-
fied and the list is read and checked. Prize may

be given for this game. (Adapted from' Girl
Scout Game Book 1929 edition.)

Turkeys Fly. Players stand in a circle. The per-
son who is It stands in the center of the circle
and says “Turkeys Hy!” raising arms to shoulder ‘.
height and down to imitate flying. All of the
players follow suit, saying “Turkeys Fly!” and
waving arms. The leader goes on to mention name

PROMOTING THANKSGIVING SOCIABILITY - 441

of birds saying “Bluebirds fly 1” or “Sparrows
fly!" After giving successive birds’ names, the
leader suddenly changes to the name of something
that cannot fly, moving arms as before, while the
players must keep theirs still. If a player makes
a mistake (fer example, waving his arms when
the leader says “Kittens fly l”) he must take his
seat. The last player standing is the next leader.
Suggested below is list of birds and animals to

give :

Turkeys Geese Bears
Ducks Mules Squirrels
Owls Hornets Goats
Crows Whales Frogs
Bats Beetles ‘Horses
Mice Pigs Snakes
Larks Cats Rabbits
Doves Parrots Puppies

(From Cooperative Recreation Service)

Gobble Relay. Equipment: A table for each
file, on which is placed a number of articles of
food corresponding to the number of players in
the file. For instance, if there were ten in the
files, each table might contain a pickle, doughnut,
piece of cheese, candy, cracker, water, peanut,
apple, piece 'of celery, olive. Formation: Players
stand or sit in a file facing the tables. At a start-
ing signal the first player in each file runs to the
table, takes his choice of the foods, eats one article
completely and returns to touch off the second
player. The file wins which first clears its table.
.(From Cooperative Recreation Service.)

Crown the Turkey. .At Thanksgiving time tur-
key is king, so we crown him. Place a large tur-
key cutout on a wall shoulder height. Prepare a

number of crowns and number each one consecu- ‘

tively. Blindfold the guests one by one, turn them
around three times and let them pin the crown on
the turkey. The one finding the best spot wins.

Turkey Modelling. Pass around a tray contain—
ing peanuts and other nuts, gum-drops, coffee
beans, apples, toothpicks, pipe cleaners, feathers,
crépe paper. Have also on the tray paring knives,
scissors, paste and plasticene. Announce that peo»
ple are to select their own
materials and construct tur-
keys. The best turkey in the
Opinion of the judges should
receive a prize.

Suggested refreshments
for this party: Pumpkin pie
topped with whipped cream,
and spiced coffee. Spiced co‘f—

Maidens."

The Blue Laws Party is an amusing new
Pilgrim Thanksgiving dinner and party
program prepared by the National Rec-
reation Association which features a
beadle who tickles with a squirrel's tail
those committing such offences as "Pow-
dering ye Nose.'I or "Staring at ye
A copy of this party bulle-
tin may be secured tree on request.

fee recipe, (from W'oman’s Home Companion),
using four cups of water, place a two-inch stick
of cinnamon, four whole cloves and two allspice
berries in the lower bowl of the vacuum coffee
maker, into the water in a percolator or pot for
steeped coffee and into the bottom of a drip pot.
As the water heats or the hot coffee drips onto
the spices their flavor is steeped out.

Pilgrim Entertainment and Party

A large Thanksgiving entertainment and party
may have the following invitations sent out:

Pilgrim Party

By Indian Scout this note is sent
From Pilgrim Folk on pleasure bent
To beg your Honored Company
Upon this date, if you are free.

Entertainment :' 8 :00 p. 1n.
Date: Games: 9:30 p. m.
Place: Refreshments

If invitations are not used, change the words
“this note” to “the word” and put it on a poster.
Make invitations and posters on rough-edged
brown paper. Silhouette of Indian scout, run—
ning should be painted on the invitations and pos-
ters. The entrance to the hall or large room where
party is to be given should be made to look like a
primitive log cabin exterior. Paint logs on a screen
of wall-board. Hang on it skins. Stack corn
shocks aI‘OUHd it. The ushers are dressed as Pil-
grims. Inside the hall, decorations consist of iron
kettles full of marigolds, Chrysanthemums and
autumn leaves; old—fashioned cooking utensils;
spinning wheels; guns; corn shocks; pumpkins.
Copies of the Blue Laws are posted here and
there on the walls. Just as the program is about
to begin, an Indian runs through the aisle and up
on the stage. He is the curtain-puller.

Program :

I. Song. Landing of the Pilgrims by Felicia D.
Hemans. Sung by a quartette in Pilgrim cos-
tume. (Twice 55 Community Songs—Gfeen
Book. 25 cents. Order from N. R. A.)

2. One-act play. The First
Thanksgiving Day. Char-
acters: 4 Modern, 3 Pil-
grims, 2 Indians

(Hallowe’en and Thanks—
giving. The Harvest Fes-
tivals. Samuel French. 50
cents).

(Continued on page 479)

Plays, Pageants, Festivals and Other
Entertainment Material for Thanksgiving

Junior Groups

At the Turn of Tide, by Georgia Stenger. A Thanks-
giving drama in one act. 7 girls and 9 boys for speak-
ing parts, as many extras as desired. A story of Co-
lonial New England. Patience saves the life of a baby
of an enemy Indian Tribe, and the White settlement is
saved from starvation by the timely gifts of the now
friendly Indians. Womans Press. 35¢

The First Thanksgiving Day, by Emma L. Johnston and
Madalene D. Barnum. One act drama. A simple ele-
mentary play especially suited to the acting abilities of
young children. 11 characters, plus extras who are
Pilgrims and Indians. 15 minutes in length. Included
in “A Book of Plays for Little Actors,” obtainable
from the American Book Co. 42¢

Harvest Festival, by Mari R. Hofer. Story of the In-
gathering told in Processional, Pantomime, Dances and
Song. The Harvest enacts the story of Mother Earth
and her children celebrating the ingathering in a series
of Harvest Dances preCeded by a Processional and a
Prologue chanted by an 'aged Harvester. Can be
adapted for use by children of high school age and
younger boys and girls.- Clayton F. Summy Co. 75¢

Harvest Time, by Alice C. D. Riley. A festival in which
large numbers of children can be used in songs, recita-
tions and dances. May be given out of doors or on
floor of a hall. A'sense of nature runs throughout the
festival in the leaves; winds, seeds, autumn flowers and
songs of the harvest. John Church Co. (New York
Agent-—Harold Flammer and Co.) 25¢

The Meaning of Thanksgiving Day, by Carolyn W'ells.
A play of one act, calling for cast of 13 children.
Emphasizes the spirit of thanks and grace of giving in

rhymed verse set to old, well known tunes. Penn Pub-
lishing Co. 25¢

Red Shoes at Plymouth, by Esther Olson. A 20 minute
play for 4 boys and 7 girls of primary grades. The

generosity of a Little Puritan averts an Indian attack.
\Valter H. Baker C0. 30¢

The Thankful Heart in “A Child's Book of Holiday
Plays,” by Frances Gillespy Wickes. 7 children. 1
adult. 1 act, interior set. A beautiful Thanksgiving
play in which Elsie, a little lame girl, through the
Spirit of Thanksgiving, meets a Hebrew Boy, an In-
dian Boy, a Greek Maid, a Roman Girl and other
Thanksgiving children. The Spirit of Thanksgiving
tells them that Elsie has the greatest gift that can be
bestowed upon any one. The book also contains eight
other Splendid holiday plays. Macmillan Company, 88¢

Thanksgiving Festival, by Orpha D. Burns. In three
parts: (1) The Pasta—Progress of Nations; (2) The
Harvest; and (3) Peace. Large cast, including choral

group and dance groups, reader. National Council for
Prevention of War. 5¢

Thanksgiving in Plymouth, by Lucy Cuddy. A Puritan
play in 3 acts. 40 characters. One splendid scene in an

442

Indian camp. Gives a very good idea of the life of
these early settlers. Two boys are lost in the woods
and believed by the little village to have been killed

but are returned by two Indian women. Rand, Mc-
Nally Co. 75¢

The Three Thanksgivings, by Faith van Valkenburg
Vilas. A play in 3 scenes with a short prologue and
epilogue. One setting. 12 adults, 8 children. The pur-
pose of the comedy is to show that the modern T hanks-
giving with its tendency to selfish indulgence is not
half so much fun as one wherein the host brings to his
table the lonely and less fortunate ones, filling their
souls with cheer and their bodies with wholesome food.
The play is original in treatment and has a delightful
vein of humor. Runs one hour. Suitable for young and
old and especially good for a community Thanksgiving
celebration. National Recreation Association. 25¢

Turkey Red, by Marjorie Woods. A 25 minute modern

Thanksgiving play for 6 girls. Two school girls and

their house guest have an unusual Thanksgiving. \Val-
ter H. Baker C0. 35¢

Adult Groups

The Burning Altar, by Ethel G. Rockwell. A Thanksgiv-
ing ceremony which may 'be given in hall, club house
or community house. 2 prolocutors, several groups:
people of the earliest times, the Hebrews, Greeks, Pil—
‘grims, and the World Today. Can be used as a pageant

of peace and international c00peration. Womans Press.
25¢

The Captain’s Dilemma, by Marion Holbrook. A 25
minute comedy for five people, 3 women and 2 men, .
based on the famous courtship of the Plymouth Cap-
tain. National Recreation Association. 10¢

The Coming of the Mayflower, by Rosamond Kimball.
Indoor pageant, with 6 episodes, 40 female and 30
male characters and extras needed. Charming songs
interspersed through pageant. Full description of
dances and costumes. Background of curtains may be
used. Especially adaptable for church and school pro-
grams. Missionary Education Movement. 50¢

The Courtship of Illiles Standish, by Eugene W. Pres-
bre_v. A play in one act dramatizing the Longfellow
story. 2 male, 2 female characters. Pilgrim costumes
and Pilgrim interior setting. Simple to produce. Suit-
able for production by high schools, also well-suited

for use by younger people. Runs 40 minutes. Samuel
French. 30¢ ‘

Cranberry Sauce, by Marion Holbrook. A one-act fan-‘
tasy for Thanksgiving or any time. Three characters-—
Pierrette, Pierrot and Harlequin. 20 minutes. A
charming, practical variation of a mellowing story.

Walter H. Baker Co. 30¢

Faith of Our Fathers, a Pilgrim Pageant, 'by Annie Rus-
sell Mar‘ble. 47 men, 18 women and 19 children, with
as many extras as desired. Pageant in two parts, eight
episodes. The first part deals with the Pilgrims——
brings out clearly‘the signing of the Mayflower com-

PLAYS, PAGEANTS, FESTIVALS POI? THANKSGIVING 443

pact and also contains a scene of the first Thanksgiv-
ing. This episode alone would form a Splendid num-
ber on a Thanksgiving Program. The second part 01
the pageant deals with the Faith of Our Fathers in
modern times. National Recreation Association. 25¢

The Festival of Indian Corn, by Esse V. Hathaway. One
of the “Pageants with a Purpose Series” edited by Dr.
Linwood Taft. For the Physical Education Handbook.
This is a historical pageant depicting the life of the
Western Plains. Prologue, Home Building, State, The
Mind and the Spirit, are component parts of this pag-
eant. F1111 directions included for production. 32
characters. 6 men, 26 women; children or adults. Ex-
tras as many as desired. A, S. Barnes and Co. 50¢

For a Happy Thanksgiving, by A. D. Zanzig. Sugges-
tions for a simple Harvest “Community Night” con-
sisting of songs, dances and considerable pageantry.
Adaptable for in- or out-of—door production, small or
large casts. Includes other possibilities for harvest en-
tertainments and festivals. Reprinted from October,
1936 RECREATION magazine. National Recreation As-

sociation. 10¢.

Harvest Festival, by Marion Holbrook. An outline for a
simple festival including a dance of the autumn leaves,
the Gleaners, an Old English Harvest Revels, a Pil-
grim Procession and a Husking Bee. May be produced
indoors against a plain curtain or out of doors against
background of foliage. Production notes included. Na-
tional Recreation Association. 10¢

A Pageant of Pilgrims, by Esther Willard Bates. Cast
can be limited to as few as 50 or increased to 100.
Prologue, epilogue and three episodes. 1% hours. The
episodes represent: (1) the decision of the-Pilgrims
to leave Scrooby; (2) the landing of the Pilgrims:
and (3) the first Thanksgiving Day. \Valter H. Baker
Co. 50¢. Royalty $10.00

A Puritan Style Show, «by Mary Russell. An entertain-
ing pageant showing the old and new in fashions, love
making, and church going viewed side 'by side. 4 men,

8 women and a reader. 30 minutes. May be played by
all women. \Villis N. Bugbee Co. 35¢

A Thanksgiving Ceremonial. A simple ceremony that
may be given in a church, school or community audi-

torium. Large cast of adults and children if desired._

A reader and chorus play important parts. The Earth
Mother and the Earth Children take part in a proces-
sion, followed by groups of Pilgrims, Pioneers and
Those Who Share their offerings. National Recreation
Association. Free

What the Moon Lady Sees, by Dorothy G. Spicer. The
Moon Lady in high Chinese costume surveys from her
throne the harvest festivals of different lands. Some
are celebrated with songs and dances, some with feasts
and merrymaking. Cast consists of the Moon Lady
(who does not speak), a reader, and 9 groups of vary-
ing numbers. The Womans Press. 35¢

Collections

Glad Time Thanksgiving Book, by Marie Irish and
Lenore K. Dolan. Includes recitations, songs, drills,
plays. Something for all grades and all ages. Willis

N. Bugbee Co. 40¢

Good Things for Thanksgiving, by Marie Irish'. Includes
recitations, monologues, dialogues, Ipantomime songs,
motion songs, drills and plays. Suitable for‘all ages.

T. S. Denison and Co. 40¢

'l.
Hallowe’en and Thanksgiving—The Harvest Festivals,
by Nina B. Lamkin. A book of program material for

these holiday occasions. Includes story and play bib-
liography, quotations, historical information, poems and
other information. Samuel French. 50¢

The Harvest Moon Thanksgiving Book, by Dorothy
Middlebrook Shipman, William Lindsley Middle‘brook
and others. Includes recitations, songs, drills and ex-
ercises, and plays.“A program handbook. For all ages

from 5 to 15. Dramatic Publishing Co. 50¢

Novelty Thanksgiving C ollectiou for Children, by Lenore
Dolan and others. Contains recitations, exercises,
songs, drills and dances, plays and dialogues, entertain-
ment suggestions. More suitable for the grades with
a few numbers which can be given by junior high
schools. Eldridge Entertainment House. 50¢

Thanksgiving, by Robert Haven Schauffier. A volume
of Our American Holidays Series. Dodd, Mead and
Co. $2.00

Thanksgiving Programs for the Lower Grades, by Julian
Lee. A collection of recitations, songs, drills, exercises,
short playlets, and other program material. Of particu-
lar help to teachers in grade schools. Dramatic Pub-

lishing Co. 40¢

Miscellaneous

Thanksgiving in .llIany Lands, by Marian Schibsby. A
bulletin containing much interesting information re-
gardingthe holiday customs in many countries of the
worldw—Czechoslovakia, Germany, Hungary, Lithuania,
Poland, Scandinavian countries and Finland, Armenia,
Italy, Syria, also Jewish customs. Parts I and II.
Foreign Language Information Service. 25¢ a set.

A bibliography of non-royalty plays for Hallowe’en,
Thanksgiving and Plymouth Days is obtainable from
the National Service Bureau, Federal Theater Prolect.

25¢
Addresses of Publishers

American Book Co., 88 Lexington Ave., New York City

Walter H. Baker Co., 178 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.,
or 448 S. Hill St., Los Angeles, Calif.

A. S. Barnes and Co., 67 West 44th St., New York City

Willis N. Bugbee Co., 428 S. Warren St., Syracuse,
New York

John Church Co., 1712 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

T. S. Denison and Co., 203 North Wabash Ave.,
Chicago, Ill.

Dodd, Mead and Co., 449 Fourth Ave., New York City

Dramatic Publishing Co., 59 E. Van Buren St., Chicago,
Ill.

Eldridge Entertainment House, Inc, Franklin, Ohio, or
829—15th St., Denver. Colo.

Harold Flammer Co., 10 East 43rd St., New York City

Foreign Language Information Service, 222 Fourth Ave.,
New York City '

Samuel French Co., 25 W. 45th St., New York City, or
811 W. 8th St., Los Angeles, Calif.

Macmillan Co., 60 Fifth Ave., New York City
Missionary Education Movement, 150 Fifth Ave.,
New York City
National Council for the Prevention of War, 532—-——l7th
St., N. \V., \Vashington, D. C.

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Ave.,
New York City

National Service Bureau, Federal Theater Project.
1697 Broadway, New York City

Penn Publishing Co., 925 Filbert St., Philadelphia, Penna.
Rand, McNally & Co., 111-—8th Ave., New York City
Clayton F. Summy Co., 321 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago, Ill.
Womans Press, 600 Lexington Ave., New York City

AH

Thanksgiving

"1

awaii

A harvest festival of
dancing and color

HE OPEN AIR court of City Hall with its large

balconies and wide staircases is crowded with

light and dark skinned people—plump Hawai—
ians, almond-eyed Chinese, shy Japanese, serious
Koreans, shining black haired Filipinos, Samoans,
Portugese, Puerto Ricans, White Russians, Span-
iards and others. They have come to see their
sisters and brothers and fathers and mothers
perform.

“My Ah Min, she dance plitty,” you hear a
Chinese mother proudly say to her friend. “Pua
is doing the hula tonight,” says a three hundred-
pound Hawaiian who is squeezing his way to the
front row in the balcony. “Umesan and Fujisan,
they, too, here,” announces ,a Japanese father.

Perhaps you wonder what it is all about. This
is a Thanksgiving festival given by twenty-two
of our playgrounds with the assistance of forty-
two directors. There is much to be thankful for
——harvests of luscious tropical fruits, vegetables
and succulent sugar cane, and more, Hawaii’s
largest harvest—-—children. Children, children and
more children! The playgrounds are full of them!

A Thanksgiving in Hawaii isn’t turkey with
the “fixings” and pumpkin pie; neither is it a
cold bleak day with the smell of snow in the air,
nor the dramatization of the Pilgrim fathers and
their hardships that first winter. It is just another
season of the gathering of a bountiful harvest
from the fields, where the air is warm and Ian-
guorous. Perhaps a slight drizzle or rain falls
gently, but only for a few minutes, and the yellow
and white plumaria and pikaki (jasmine) and
orange blossoms and hibiscus bloom and fill the

atmosphere with nectar and ambrosia. That is
Hawaii’s season of Thanksgiving!

444

 

By
TRUDE MICHELSON-ASH

SupervisorI Activities for
Girls' ‘and Women's
Playgrounds of Hawaii

Boy Scouts with brown skins direct the crowds.
Thousands of people pour into City Hall. The
band begins to play. You see sixty boys from
McKinley High School dressed in blue and white
uniforms. The color of their skins blend from a
pinkish white 'to a rich soft delicate brown, but
they are not conscious of the difference!

And still people squeeze their way into City
Hall. It seems as though every one in town has
turned out for the gala fete.

After the band, much applause, but not the kind
you would, perhaps, hear in the mainland—no
stamping of feet or hooting or calling “bravo.”
Our Oriental mothers and fathers are not demon-
strative, but they are appreciative and they ap-
plaud quietly.

The jolly Hawaiian on your right shifts from
one foot to the other. You have reason to be glad
he hasn’t stepped on your toes! The Japanese
family on your left have discovered some friends
a short distance from you and are conversing in
their native tongue-but only for a moment.

“See,” and “Ah” and “M-m-m-,” you hear, as
all eyes are turned toward the entrance.

The Harvest Procession! Eight color-bearers
of different races appear carrying the American
and Hawaiian flags. The Queen is coming—a tall
stately girl, dressed in silk holiku (Hawaiian
dress with train, originally introduced by early
missionaries) and wearing long leis reaching to
her feet. To her right and left are flower maidens
in whose outstretched arms are fragrant ginger
and carnation leis.

And what do these boys in Malos represent?
(Malos are special loin cloths worn by men and

(Continued on page 480)

Indoor Recreation "According to l-loyle”

By GORDON L, NORTON mit peOple to talk, laugh and en-

joy themselves beyond the limi-
tations of a library reading

HE PRESENT-DAY scale rec-
reation program in the city
of Boston began in the early

1930’s during the depression period. Mayor James
M. Curley appointed a City-VVide Emergency
Committee on Health and Recreation composed
of a number of outstanding public-spirited Citi-
zens of Boston charged with the responsibility of
devising ways and means of providing healthful
recreation for the thousands of citizens who had
been thrown out of work or who were working
shorter hours. The whole emphasis of the pro-
gram at that time was placed on the unemployed.

The first thought of the committee turned to an
educational program to include lectures, current
events, economics, and art appreciation. Next the
committee turned its attention to drama, music,
choral, and entertainment. Since all these pro-
grams were planned to take place in our munici-
pal buildings, it was felt that a waiting room
would be desirable in each building where indi-
viduals attending the various activities might rest,
read or play quiet games while waiting between
the meetings of the groups in which they were
interested.

It was also felt that some people might be at-
tracted to the rooms who would not care to par-
ticipate in the activities scheduled. With this' in
mind. a Subcommittee on Reading and Game
Rooms was formed with Milton E. Lord, director
of the Boston public library system, as chairman.
At the first meeting of this committee it was de-
cided that games such as backgammon, checkers,
chess, dominoes, lotto, parchesi, jackstraws, bag—
atelle, cards, and jig saw

room. They were to be rooms where hundreds
might meet and discuss common interests Without
fear of disturbing someone else who might be
deep in study, or where they might gather round
tables and play games which the crowded quarters
of their apartments would not permit.

On February 2, 1933, the committee was suc-
cessful in opening game rooms in ten of the mu-
nicipal buildings throughout the city. This pro-
gram ran for a period of ten weeks and served
134,619 people. Unfortunately the rooms were in
charge of untrained workers, and destruction of
property and lack of good leadership militated
against the success of the centers. The pro-
gram, however, was revived in 1934 and strug-
gled along with inadequate leadership until the

.furnishing of workers by ERA and W PA

made it possible
panded.

In giving the history of the Boston game rooms
we do not wish to lead you to believe that the
game room idea originated in Boston or that it
was a “child of the depression.” Game rooms
have, of course, been conducted for years in pri-
vate organizations and school buildings, aboard
ships and VarlOUS other places. An elderly Scotch-
man visiting our game room not long ago in-
formed us that he was a regular patron of a free
game room in his home town in Scotland fifty-
four years ago, before he came to America. \Ve
have no way of knowing the history of the free

game room idea, but we

for the program to be ex-

puzzles would be suit—
able. Reading was limit-
ed to magazines and
newspapers because the
supplying of books in the
rooms would be a dUpli-
cation of the service of-
fered by the branch li-
braries. The whole idea
behind the movement was
to provide rooms that
would retain some of the
dignified atmosphere' of
the libraries and yet per-

Last spring the WPA Adult Recreation' Proiect
of Boston' sponsored a course in indoor recre-
ation given by Gordon L. Norton. WPA super-
visor. The course was conducted in a series of
ten sessions of two hours each. the first half
hour being devoted to a tall: on game room oper-
ation. while the remaining hour and a half was
given over to instruction and participation in a
variety of games. The topics discussed were:
Purpose and History of Game Rooms: Facilities
and Equipment; Organization and Leadership;
Publicity; Program and Tournaments. The games
discussed were Camelot. Checkers. Contract
Bridge. Chess. Cribbage. Hearts. Pinochle.

Rummy. Whist and Table Tennis. We present
here a few extracts from Mr. Norton's material.

(10' know that it dates
back to before the Revo-
lution in America. Not
long ago. while doing
some historical research
work, T came across an
article stating that a very
prominent minister in a
town near Boston had
been discharged from his
position as pastor of the
church because he had
opened a f reereading and
game room in the base-

445

446 INDOOR RECREATION “ACCORDING TO HOYLE”

ment of the church. This happened a few years
before the Revolution. The minister had in mind
social dancing and some of the games that are
still being played in American homes. We can see
by this that we have not originated the program
but have merely built on the ideas of recreation-
minded people who passed before our time.

To quote from the history of a few cities which
have conducted game rooms through their recrea-
tion departments, it is interesting to note that the
Recreation Department of Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, conducted a game room in a downtown
building for a number of years before the depres-
sion period of 1933, including in its program many
of the games that we teach in Boston today. York,
Pennsylvania, had its quiet reading and game
rooms for a number of years prior to the depres-
sion. These rooms were opened in public school
buildings and the program included activities such
as chess, checkers, ping pong or card games for
men and women over eighteen years of age.
Minneapolis, Minnesota, operates twenty game
rooms open for minors and adults. Hartford,
Connecticut, conducts roomsiin nineteen centers,
with one or more rooms in each center devoted to
game room activities. James H. Dillon, Director
of Recreation, states that he considers game room
activities an indispensable part _of the city’s rec-
reation program.

Chicago, Illinois, has had an important part in
promoting this activity as a part of its recreation
program. At the present time eighty—seven game
rooms are being conducted, and in most cases
these rooms are devoted to mixed groups of
adults although in some instances several rooms
are set aside for women’s activities. Chicago has
been outstanding in building its own equipment
and game room supplies through its manufactur-
ing plant set up to provide the rooms with ping-
pong tables, shuffleboard courts, indoor horseshoe
equipment, bean bag boards, equipment for. dart
games, pin board marble games, hand shufHe-
boards, and four—men soccer games. They have
even carved out their own chess sets. Among
other games offered in the rooms are bridge,
pinochle, Lexicon, cribbage, dominoes, two—hand,
three-hand and four-hand checkers, eleven-men
and twenty-one-men halma, fox and geese, Mill,
and many varieties of puzzles. Many of the rooms
have billiard and pool tables.

Boston has had as many as thirty-nine game
rooms in operation at one time. At present there
are sixteen game rooms in schools, libraries,

neighborhood houses, recreation centers, vacant
stores, and a Y.M.C.A. As a contrast to this,
consider Hartford, with nineteen game rooms
operated in municipal recreation centers, and the
larger city of Chicago with a game room in each
of its eighty—seven municipal recreation centers.
Some of Chicago’s game rooms are confined to as
low as 600 square feet, while others run as high
as 3,000 square feet, and in many instances two
and three rooms are devoted to this activity. Bos-
ton’s largest game room covers about I, 500 square
feet.

Facilities and Equipment

Outdoor Game Room Facilities. Game room ac-
tivities are not restricted to indoor facilities but
can be conducted equally as well and as success-
fully in a number of outdoor rooms. Every play—
ground should have a place set aside for quiet
games—one space for children and another for
adults.

The Lincoln Bath Playground in Cleveland is
an example of modern play area planning. It was
equipped with facilities of a permanent type of
construction and planned so as to accommodate
as large a number of people as possible at all
times. A slab of concrete covers 10,800 square
feet of the play area, and the majority of its fa—
cilities are constructed of reinforced concrete.
The concrete covered area provides two regulation
basketball courts with a volley ball court marked
out inside each, and two paddle tennis courts. In
addition, five concrete ping-pong tables and three
horseshoe courts were provided. The entire play
area is flood-lighted so adequately that it is possi—
ble to read a newspaper without difficulty at any
point on the playground.

A space on this playground 40’x40’ would
provide room for twenty-five regulation 30” card
tables seating a hundred players. These tables
could be constructed of concrete and made as
permanent as other facilities. Colored cubes
could be used to make checker and chess boards ‘
in the table tops. Chairs could be made of con-
crete with an awning stretched over the area dur-
ing the noontime heat. Such facilities would bring
the game room to the playground and add to its
activities. Chess, checkers, Camelot, halma, cards,
and other quiet games.

Public Parks. Shaded areas of our public parks
provide excellent places for quiet games. Such
areas should be roped off, and in them should be
provided tables for quiet games, three or four

 

INDOOR RECREATION “ACCORDING TO HOYLE” 447

.-

ping—pong tables, pos—
sibly a pool and bil—
liard table, a few
horseshoe courts,
equipment for bowl—
ing on the green, and
an outdoor library.

Equipment. The size
and success of the
game room depends
to a large degree on
the amount of equip-
ment and supplies on
hand. It is necessary
to buy such articles as
ping-pong balls, rack-
ets and nets, cards and
similar items, but the ,
majority of equip-  _.
ment needed can be

home built. In my

Opinion every public recreation department should
have its own manufacturing plant to build the
equipment needed.

As an illustration of the economy of this self-
service our experience in supplying the. rooms
with tables might be cited. Under the ERA we
purchased folding card tables for all of the rooms
but were forced to replace them so often that it
became a drain on our budget. To remedy this we
had two carpenters assigned to the project, pur—
chased materials and built stationary tables, ob-
taining material to build two hundred tables for
the amount required to purchase sixty folding
tables. We then built ping—pong tables (at a cost
of less than $8.00 per table.

A manufacturing unit could provide tables,
chairs, benches, ping-pong tables, table shuffle-
board courts, table bowling alleys, dart games,
table box hockey, checker and chess boards, crib—
bage boards, and dozens of other games too ex—
pensive to purchase.

In a letter from Chicago, Mr. O. C. Rose, Area
Supervisor of the city’s game room program,
states: “We make all of our games except the
card games. We found that we could make much
better ping-pong tables, shufHeboard equipment,
imitation inlaid checker boards of all kinds, dart
games from tree stumps, and many other games
that are far more serviceable than commercial
games. Our typical game rooms have from three
to twelve ping-pong tables,one to four shuffleboard
courts, indoor horseshoes, bean bag boards, dart

J‘v

 

Outdoor game room facilities should be
provided. Reading, Pa.. has equipped
sections of its parks for the purpose

games and pin board marble games, hand shuffle—
boards, four-men soccer game, table games, in—
cluding bridge, pinochle, Lexicon, cribbage, domi-
noes, two, three and four handed checkers, chess,
eleven and twenty-one men halma, fox and geese.
Mill, and many varieties of puzzles including
wood, wire and jig saw.

Home Play Rooms. While we are striving to
give the community bigger and better municipal
game rooms we should also be thinking in terms
of giving it home play rooms—rooms in which
the whole family can enjoy the game that they
have learned in our rooms. While we are teach-
ing them to play we might also teach them to pro-
vide their own play facilities and equipment.

To demonstrate what I mean, we might learn
that Mr. Jones has a large cellar in his home that
is serving Mr. Jones only as a storage place for
his coal and housing for the heating plant. \Ve
might point out to him the fact that this idle space
could be giving rich returns in happiness for his
whole family. How? By turning it into a play
room. We might advise him in planning the room,
or the recreation department, through a bulletin
service, could give Mr. Jones plans for home play
space and keep him informed on the latest de-
velopments in home play rooms. We might even
conduct classes in home playing planning.

448 INDOOR RECREATION “ACCORDING TO HOYLE”

How, Mr. Jones may inquire, is this to be ac~
complished? How is it possible to remodel the
dust-covered cellar into a Summer and winter re-
sort for his family? At very little expense he can
cover the stone 0r cement walls with beaver board
or plywood and add a coat of light paint to
brighten up the dark corners, or he can paint the
natural walls a light color. This, of course, de-
pends on his taste and pocketbook. After the
paint job has dried he can wash the floor, borrow
a few scatter rugs from other parts of the house,
or he can cover the floor with linoleum. Next he
brings down the folding card tables, some of the
extra chairs, a divan or studio couch, the radio,
and one or two bridge lamps. He can build a
ping-pong table and a magazine rack for the room.
As a last touch, he might decorate the windows
with curtains borrowed from the household col-
lection and brighten up the walls with a few travel
posters or inexpensive pictures. Then Mr. Jones
may corral the family, collect his supply of games,
and proceed to have a grand time right next door
to the coal pile.

Now Mr. Jones has covered a good deal of the
held of adult recreation in producing this room.
He has designed it, built a wall, made a ping-pong
table and magazine rack, used a paint brush,
dabbled in interior decoration, and is now pre-
pared to tackle leadership. He is going to teach
his family how to play and enjoy themselves at
home. He has provided a meeting place for his
pipe-smoking cronies, for mother’s sewing circle,
brother’s baseball team, sister’s glee club, and a
place for brother and sister to entertain their one
and only.

Perhaps Mr. Jones has no cellar. Then why
should he not set up an outdoor play space in his
backyard? He can stretch an awning over a part
of the yard, bring out the furniture suggested,
run out an extension wire for night lighting and
add a plywood wall if he wishes? To the games
that he already has on hand he can add a sand
box for the children, box hockey, a horseshoe
court, and a dozen other games that take up very
little space. While he has his family outdoors he
might add another branch of education and recre-
ation, nature study, by having his family start a
garden to add color to the play space. Mr. Jones
is giving his family something to stay at home for!

-3ut suppose that he has no cellar or backyard.
Well, let him move the play space to the roof and
add sun bathing to the program. The family could
hold picnics out there and imagine that they were

at the seashore. \Vhether it’s in the cellar, back-
yard or on the roof, by all means Mr. Jones should
provide his family with a place to play!

Leadership

Leadership in the game room is as essential as
it is in any other phase of recreation. Some au-
thorities have voiced the opinion that the game
room might 'be conducted with volunteer work-
ers, that a trained staff is unnecessary, and that a
game room program can conduct itself with very
little leadership. I cannot agree with these state-
ments because very few fields of recreation bring
together under the roof of one room and under
the leadership of one or two pople so many dif-
ferent interests and so many different types of in-
dividuals. Very few prOgrams offer the large va-
riety of activities, that can be carried on at the
same time. A capable leader must be present to
keep the participants engaged in a smoothly run-
ning program, to help them find expression for
their desires, to act as referee, to issue and take
care of games, and to supervise the room so that
disorderly conduct will not interfere with the
games being played.

The game room worker should have knowledge
of the psychology of recreation and its socializing
effect on the people of the community, an ap-
preciation of the social service being rendered and
of the moral standards of the work being per-
formed. He should have personality and the abil-
ity to meet and mix with people easily, to make
them feel at home, and to lead them in activities
from which they will gain the most benefit. He
should be mentally alert and physically able to
withstand nervous strain and hard work with a
pleasant manner. And, finally and‘most impor-
tant, he must love the work.

A capable instructor must have a pleasing dis-
position, a comprehensive knowledge of all games
played in the rooms and must be constantly on the
lookout for new games that might be added to the
program. He must be a diplomat, a psychologist,
an organizer and, most important of all, he must
be a real teacher. He must be able to teach games.
organize teams, conduct matches and tourneys.
and direct social activities in the rooms when

necessary.

Conducting the Game Room

The game room leader must realize that he is
not conducting an orchestra or choral group in
which the participants all take part in one type of

 

 

INDOOR RECREATION “ACCORDING TO HOYLE” 449

activity. He must realize that he is offering a

variety of games to permit the participants to,

follow out their own inclinations. If he intends to
force people to play checkers, he might as well
discard the other games and call it a checker room.
If he intends to force instruction classes on the
participants, he might as well close the other ac-
tivities and call it a classroom. If he is going to
attempt to force people to play the games that he
chooses, he might as well close the room before
the program starts! '

On the other hand, if he offers a good variety
of games and permits the participants to choose
their own from the very beginning, he has a good
chance of conducting a successful room. He
should assist them to master the game that they
choose if they so desire, but otherwise should
permit them to play without interruption. He can
very subtly lead their interests into other games if
he' uses the right technique. He can lead them
into classes, tourneys and special events, but he
will never be able to force them.

Normal Routine. Byinormal routine of the game
room we mean the routine scheduled which per-
mits people to play any game they choose at any
time they choose during the period the room is in
operation, on the principle that individuals play

these games because they have the desire to do so '

and not because we plan that they shall, and that
they enjoy their playing with as little apparent
leadership as possible. Normal routine is more
desirable in the game room than planned programs
because it is possible to entertain a larger number
of participants with a smaller amount of leader-
ship and supervision. These two elements are
necessary, of course, but they should not be
apparent.

Our job°in conducting the normal routine pro-
gram is to make our visitors feel at home and to
make their visit a pleasant one. We should greet
each individual and extend a personal welcome to
him. We should become their friends from the
very first meeting and should not lose that friend-
ship. We should chat with them long enough to
learn what games they are in-
terested in, and then introduce
them to others with the same
interest. We should never per-
mit a visitor to feel like a
stranger in our midst.

After our visitor has become
acquainted with other visitors
in the room, we should become

"Cramped living quarters. fast life
and divided interests have practi-
cally wrecked all home life. In game
rooms I see an opportunity to go a
long way on the road to restoring
the lost art of family life and hap-
piness. the companionship of father
and mother and their children."

better acquainted with him. We should learn his
likes and dislikes and be a source of outlet for his_
pentup feelings. If he cares to boast of his accom-
plishments, bewail his troubles and confide his
personal secrets in us', we should let him. We are
gaining his confidence and friendship, and he will
the more easily be led into a variety of games.

Once we have gained his friendship and con-
fidence, we should go a step further and make
each individual feel a personal responsibility for
the room, for its appearance, discipline and pro-
gram; for the happiness of others who visit the
room, and for teaching games to newscomers. We
should make the good contract bridge players feel
that they are responsible for making their game
the most popular in the room by instructing new-
comers and converting the habitual players of
other games. We should do this in all games,
selecting the best players and selling them the
idea. By acting as our allies they can be instru-
mental in acquainting each individual with a va-
riety of games. We are now promoting leader-
ship within the group and making it possible for
participants to conduct their own activities.

Our idea is not to have the new leaders force
participants into-new games, but to lead them. The
leader can very often accomplish this by adopt-
ing the ruse that a fourth hand is needed in
bridge, or that he requires a partner for a game
of table tennis, or feels like playing a game of
checkers. While he is playing the leader has a
chance to sell the visitor the game.

Why are we interested in having our partici-
pants learn a variety of games? Because the more
games they know, the more fun they will have.
If Mr. Jones, an habitual checker player, arrives
in the room and finds no other checker players. he
either leaves or sits down to wait for a partner to
show up. But if Mr. Jones has learned a variety
of games, he is prepared to have fun while he is
waiting for more checker players to come in. He
may be a table tennis enthusiast but limited equip-
ment will not permit him to bat a ball all of his

time in the room. Others must have their chance

to play. He should know other
games to play while awaiting his
next turn at the table. In other
words, Mr. Jones should be

‘ prepared to enjoy himself to the
fullest extent while in the room.
But while we are considering
our visitor’s welfare and happi-
ness during his sojourn in the

450 INDOOR RECREATION “ACCORDING TO HOYLE”

room, we must not overlook the fact that he may
wish to “sit out the‘dance,” so to speak and chat
with his friends. “I e should not object to this so
long as we feel certain that he is doing the thing
he wishes to and is enjoying himself. But, on the
other hand, we must not permit those “sitting out
the dance” to raise a rumpus and heckle other
players. The minute‘we permit a group to be—
come boisterous we lose control of the room.

There are numerous other things we must con—
sider in conducting our normal routine program.
\Ne should appeal to our participants and com—
munity people for magazines and reading material
for the room. A few chairs should be set aside
near the best lights for those who wish to read.
If we have a radio in the room it should be so
placed that when listeners sit around it they will
not interfere with the players. If the room is open
to mixed groups, we should always try to give the
women tables to themselves if they wish to be
alone. And above all the room must be clean,
orderly and comfortable.

Planned Programs. The planned program, as we
apply it to the game room, means a series of se—
lected activities that we have planned and sched-
uled for the.pleasure of our participants.‘ This
program may consist of a series of weekly room
tourneys or a series of inter—room matches, and
may include our city-wide events.

In planning a program of scheduled activities
for our rooms we must consider the likes and dis-
likes of the participants. If we have only a few
checker players in the room it will be useless to
schedule a series of checker tourneys in that room.
If we have a majority interested in checkers, we
can hope to conduct a successful series of tour—
neys. We must select activities that the majority
are going to be interested in.

Although we consider the planned program im-
portant to the life of the room, it should never be
permitted to interfere with the normal routine.
Why? Because we never find a crowded room of
participants who are all interested in the same
game. If we stop the normal activities to conduct
a tourney in a certain game, we are doing an in—
justice to those who are not interested in that par—
ticular game, and if we schedule these tourneys
as regular events, we are inviting a good many of
our patrons to stay out of the room during the
hours the tourneys are being conducted.

If we are to conduct a successful planned pro—
gram in conjunction with the normal routine it

must be done in such a manner that one does not
interfere with the other. If we wish to conduct
our planned program in the room it must be done
during the natural lull in the normal routine. If
this is impossible, then we must conduct our plan—
ned program in a separate room or a different
building. If we have the use of two or more
rooms in the building for our game room activi-
ties, the problem is solved by conducting the
planned program in one and the normal routine
in the other.

Spontaneous Programs. The spontaneous pro-
gram is an event which has had no previous plan—
ning. It follows the natural feeling, temperament,
impulses and desires of the group as a whole. Its
success depends on the voluntary spirit of the
group and the willingness to comply with sugges-
tions. For instance, if we suddenly find everyone
in the room is a table tennis player, the mere sug-
gestion of a tourney may begin a spontaneous
program. Or we may find that at this particular
time the participants are in an unusually friendly
mood. and by suggestion it may be possible to

start a series of group games that will be enjoyed
by all.

The real leader should be able to sense the feel—
ing of the group to adapt his suggestions accord—
ingly. If his suggestion does not meet the ap—
proval of the group as a whole, he should either
abandon the idea or segregate those interested in a
separate part of the room, or. better still, in an-
other room.

No leader should overlook an opportunity to
conduct spontaneous events becaUSe it keeps life
in the room, maintains the participants’ interest,
and demonstrates to the group that the leader is
interested in their pleasure.

Classes. Instruction classes in popular games
are an important part of our planned program and
open channels for broadening the knowledge of
games among the participants. We should con-
duct classes in as many games as possible and en-
courage as many students to join as possible. In
so doing we increase the activities of our normal
routine and guarantee a larger participation in
other'phases of our planned program.

These classes should be conducted by instruct-
ors who are thoroughly familiar with the game to
be taught, who have the ability to gain and hold
the interest of the students, and to make the in-
struction period'more play than study. The in-
structor should get away from the classroom idea

INDOOR RECREATION “ACCORDING TO HOYLE” 451

and retain the game room atmosphere as much as
possible if he wishes to keep his students happy
and interested.

The classes should be planned so that they do
not conflict with the normal routine and held dur—
ing the (lay and time most convenient for the
largest number of participants. They should be
held on the same day, at the same time, and in the
same place every week to avoid confusing the
members. If we continually change our time or
place the participants soon become discouraged
and our attendance dissipates.

Special Events

Room tourneys should be conducted to promote
interest in the games and develop individual skill.
Competition encourages study, practice, applica-
tion and personal pride in ability to play well.
Room tournaments may be promoted as a stimu-
lant to interest in the individual room’s activities,
inter-room tournaments to promote interest in the
community, and city-wide tournaments as a means
of practical demonstration.

Team Matches. Teams should be organized in
the various rooms and team matches encouraged.
Through team play we offer a medium for co-
operation among the participants. . . . If a team is
to be successful there must be cooperation among
its members, and if it is to compete with other
teams it must have the cooperation and backing of
every participant in the room which it represents.

Special Events. We should encourage special
events such as social nights, ladies’ nights, men’s
nights, and game carnivals. Most of these events
should be conducted under the direct supervision
of the local committee members.

City-wide Events. We should plan on conduct-
ing city-wide tournaments and game carnivals at
least once each year for championship competition
between the players from all of the rooms. These
events stimulate activities, develop individual skill,
and promote a feeling of personal pride in the
room to which the competitor belongs.

Values of the Program

The results we have secured can perhaps be best
illustrated by giving you the story of an elderly
man who visits one of our rooms. The story is
told in his own words.

“I draw a small pension and live in a cramped
room in a thickly populated section of the city. I

am getting on in years and have lost the ability to
hold friends as I did in my younger years. Oc-
casionally friends would visit me, but there seem-
ed to be little in common between us. With noth-
ing in common to hold us together we gradually
drifted apart, and I was left alone. I have gone
to the library and read newspapers, but the people
I met there were all strangers and even when I
met someone that I knew we couldn’t talk above
a whisper. I took out books and attempted to in-
terest myself in them at home. I always did like
reading but after a while it began causing head-
aches. I went to the movies occasionally when I
could afford it, but the love mush tired me more
than the reading. I began to get into a monoton-
ous rut of existence of eating, reading, eating,
movies, eating, sleeping, and so on.

“One day I met a man who told me he was on
the way to the game room and asked me to join
him. It was my first visit to one of these rooms.
At the room he invited me to play a game of
checkers with him, and I accommodated him. It
wasn’t much of an accommodation, though, be-
cause I was no match for him. I had been a pretty
good player in my younger days, but I hadn’t
played for a long time. Soon he grew tired of
me and gave his attention to another player. I
watched him play his new opponent and found
that my interest in checkers was returning. One
of the game room instructors saw me all alone
and asked me what game I was interested in. I
answered that checkers was my favorite game but
that my friend couldn’t be bothered with me be-
cause I couldn’t offer enough competition. ‘15 that
so!’ he said. He took me over in a corner where
we could concentrate and began showing me the
Openings. the way to build up formations, and
many of the tricks of the game. He also pointed
out my bad moves. I won't go into detail—I
spent several periods with him, and the old play
began to come back to me.

“After his coaching I got my pal into another
game, and much to his surprise I won. And he
was more surprised when I won the next three
games. The instructor led me into the room tour-
neys, and I was soon beating the best players in
the room. I feel very happy now because every
time I come into the room I receive half a dozen,
challenges. In fact, I am getting more fun out of
life than I have had in the last dozen years, and
I owe it to your project. . . . Let’s have more
game rooms.”

What They Say—About Recreation

atheistic philosophy which robs the hearts and

invades the minds of so many people, I will
tell you. First, because I think it is not true, and,
second, because it takes the play out of life. In a
world coming from nowhere, meaning nothing.
and going no-whither, life will not dance. The
Master was right. He came, with his°deep phi-
losophy about what life ultimately means, that we
might have life and might have it abundantly.”

-———Harry Emerson Fosdick.

"IF YOU ASK me why I hate the materialistic,

“Not the speediest automobiles, not the strong-
est gin, not the most violent amusement park, not
the dirtiest stories and actions can long distract
human attention from the terrible inner emptiness
that! comes when they have allowed themselves to
be cheated out of their rightful heritage of doing,
or constructing, or creating, or thinking or grow-

ing something successfully.”
——Dorothy Canfield Fisher.

“There is a chance for vicarious enjoyment in
our platform of leisure and this should be made
clear. When direct enjoyment and participation is
impossible, vicarious enjoyment is the best and a
necessary substitute. Books and movies help to
satisfy the human wish for new experience.
Through the medium of the imagination, every
man can be a hero or an athlete or an actor. This
play of the imagination does serve a real purpose
by releasing personalities into wider experiences

than they would otherwise enjoy. In other w0rdS,.

we can window shop the life we know exists but
which we cannot have for our own.”—Elmer D.
.lfitchell in The Phi Delta Kappan.

“It is apparent that the
ideal of devotion to work
must be altered and enrich—
ed by placing alongside an—
other ideal although it may
conflict with the develop—
ment of the first. This other
ideal would state that play
belongs in_ the good life, that
it requires no apologies for
its followers, that its justi-
fications are rooted deep in

452

At the Recreation Congress at Pittsburgh
the request came from a number of recre-
ation workers for a page of quotations in
Recreation about recreation and the lei-
sure time field in general. Such quotations.
it was felt. could be advantageously
used in connection with annual re-

ports, publicity material and addresses.
If this idea appeals to you we hope you
will say so. And we further hope that
our readers will help by sending us inter-
esting quotations which they have come
across. We may not have heard of them.

the basic nature of mankind, and buttressed by the
kind of world in which he lives today.”—-—-Jesse F.
lVilliams, M .D., in Principle of Physical Education.

“Beauty is its own excuse for being and is
spirited, vital, real in relationship to the depth of
feeling of the doer. The ‘how’ of this creative
thing, like the big, black bugaboo of cradle days,
just jumps right out at you. It never comes twice
in the same shape, size, form, or color. It simply
comes dancing, laughing, singing, tilled with the
sheer joy of living, for it dwells in depths of in—
spiration. the marble castles of idealistic youth.”
—Beatrice Harrison in “Youth Creates Beauty,”

' The Call to Youth.

“Recreation is as. necessary for the boy as oil
for an engine. His recreation needs just as much
thought, planning and supervision as does any
other phase of his deVelopment. Unsupervised,
his play may resolve itself into all forms of ama-
teur gambling, and the formation of other bad
habits which may later lead to delinquency and
crime. Supervised play develops poise, self-reli-
ance and balance. It also develops character,
thereby training the boy to become a useful citi-
zen.”—C. H. Lewis, General Superintendent,
State Reformatory for Boys, Pontiac, Illinois.

“It is extremely important that every individual
learn to play. Most tragic are the lives of those
persons who do not know how to relax and enjoy
themselves. As the young people from high school
and college are likely to be attracted into some
special sport, it is well that in grade school they
be encouraged to become in-
terested in a wide variety
of physical activities which
may last as long as they
live.”—From Hygcia, Sep-
tember 1937.

“Recreation. in its broad
sense, is one of the greatest
social and educational forces
yet available to man. We
have only begun to realize

(Continued on page 48])

 

Drama—A Community Responsibility

ITIl THE development of
W drama as an outstanding
part of a municipal rec-
reation program, it is important
that leaders in the recreation field organize a pro-
gram which will be fundamentally sound and
adapted to the interests and abilities of the people
in their'community. The number of adult dra~
matic groups throughout the country is growing.
These groups are offering opportunities to high
school and college graduates
who have had dramatic ex-
perience to continue that in-
terest as a leisure time ac-
tivity, and are giving those
who have had little drama
experience encouragementin
developing .this splendid art.
It is estimated that there
are over one thousand little ifs
theater organizations in the
United States that are car—
rying on a program of di—
versified drama activities.
Many of these are being
conducted as part of the
municipal recreation program.
The planning of a community-wide drama pro-
gram involves a wide knowledge of community
interests and prejudices. Many little theaters have
been organized only to disband after a few years
of activity. Lack of success in keeping up the in—
terest of a drama group can usually be traced to
internal jealousies, a program not sufficiently di-
versified, over-expansion and absence of good lead—
ership. Before launching a program of drama in
a community it is of primary importance for the
recreation director to have the whole-hearted co«
operation of the drama leaders of a community.

How It Started in Sioux City

The Sioux City Recreation Department believes
that it has a definite responsibility to help those
interested in drama find an outlet for their talents
and abilities. With this thought in mind an Ad-
visory Drama Committee was appointed, repre-
senting a cross section of community life. Among
those serving on the committee: the Superintend-
ent of Schools, two members of the School Board,

*

By FERDINAND A. BAHR

Director of Recreation
Sioux City. Iowa

"The day is past when the dramatic impulse
can be ignored in any educational scheme.
This impulse is present in every human be-
ing. and. like every other good tendency.
it needs careful nurture if it is to bud.
blossom and bear fruit. There can be little
argument about the fact that the drama-
tic impulse should be vitalized in educa-
tion and by proper direction made to do
part in developing and cultivating
bodily control. mental discipline and social
consciousness. Thus it may lead to ef-
ficiency. aesthetic appreciation. and spirit-
ual development."—Mettill and Flem-
ing in Play-Making and Plays.

the drama chairman of the
Junior League, a member of
American Association of Uni-
versityWomen, the chairman of
the VVomen’s Club drama group, a leader in drama
in the Catholic Church, a banker, a leader of
drama in jewish organizations, the drama editor
of the local newspaper, a representative from each
of the College, High SchOol and Junior High
School drama departments, and a leader of the
labor organizations.

The purpose of the com-
mittee, as outlined at the
first meeting was to assist
the Recreation Department
in developing a well-round-
ed drama program for the
citizens of Sioux City
through a one—act play con-
test, through courses in the
art of play production and
play writing, children’s dra-
matics, the organization of
a radio drama group, and
planning for the establish—
ment of a community theater.

The Play Contest

The first activity to be launched by the Advis-
ory Drama Committee was a one-act play contest.
Within three weeks of the ofhcial announcement
regarding the registratiOn of entrants, sixteen or-
ganizations had signified their intention to par-
ticipate in the contest with comedies, tragedies,

. and fantasies on the program.

I Judging the Plays

Each group entering a play was asked to fur-
nish one judge capable of acting as a dramatic
critic. This judge witnessed and graded all plays
except the one given by his particular group. The
judging was upon the basis of first, second, and
third place. First place was given one point, sec-
ond, two points, third, three points, and so on in
the tabulation, with the group having the fewest
points in the tabulation awarded first place. The
plan of judging was as follows:

Plan for Judging
Choice of Play. This depended not on whether
the judge liked the play. but whether it was wiser

4S3

454 DRAMA—A COMMUNITY RESPONSIBILITY

chosen from the standpoint of the age level and of
the apparent ability of the participating group.
I 5%.

Directing and Acting. Did the presentation re-
veal adequate attention to climaxes, rhythm,
tempo, groupings, movement, development of
minor characters, stage business, ensemble play-
ing? 25%.

Stage Craft and Management. Were the setting,
properties and lighting satisfactory? (Remember
that playing before a draped curtain was a re-
quirement.) Was there evidence of adequate and
harmonious back-stage management? 25%.

Costumes and Make-up. Were the the costumes
satisfying as to nation, period, season, social
status, and attention to color values of harmony
and contrast? Was the make-up convincing? 20%.

Pronunciation and Enunciation. Did the charac-
ters pronounce their words accurately and did they
speak clearly enough to be understood? 15%.

It was felt that a contest of this type, as an end
in itself, was not meeting the full needs of the
community. To help the organizations better their
presentation of future productions, an outstand-
ing dramatic critic from the University of Iowa
was selected to analyze the plays each evening and
give constructive criticism to the participating
groups on the plays they had presented at the
tournament. In addition, the critic selected the
outstanding actor of each group taking part in
the contest. The persons selected formed a nucleus
of a group of actors who are producing more dif-
ficult productions 'under outstanding leadership.

Rules of the Contest

The complete rules of the contest are as follows:

Eligibility and Registration. The contest is open
to all dramatic groups in Sioux City. Strictly one-
act plays with one set shall be used. The maxi-
mum time of playing, from the rise of initial cur-
tain to fall of final curtain, including the time used
in lowering the curtain to show passage of time,
will be forty minutes. No fewer than three per-
sons shall be in the cast in any play. Propaganda
plays are not eligible.

Staging of Play. Each group will be responsi-
ble for the arrangement of its own stage property
and also for clearing it off immediately following
the curtain. Only ten minutes will be allowed be—
tween plays. Because of limited space back stage;
and to save expense of tranSportation of furni-
ture, the committee will have a quantity of fur-

niture available which can be used by the compet-
ing groups. Articles necessary for a particular
play must be furnished by the individual groups.
The list of furniture which will be available will
be sent to the groups two weeks prior to the tour-
nament. Such special property as is needed must
be removed from the auditorium the day after the
production. The properties and effects of each
group must be in the auditorium on the morning
of the day the play is to be given.

The same cyclorama curtain must be used by
all contesting groups. A complete plan of the
stage showing the grouping of properties, en-
trances and fireplace must be in the hands of the
stage committee at least two weeks prior to the
tournament. All groups must take care. of the
Opening and closing curtain.

Ordinary lighting equipment such as footlights
and borderlights will be supplied. Special light-
ing will be arranged for, if possible, if the request
is made to the stage committee at least two weeks
prior to the tournament. A stage electrician and
two stage‘ directors will be at the disposal of all
grOUps. Each group will be allowed to bring six
helpers including stage, make-up, and property
hands. No group will be allowed to handle the
switchboard; the group’s electrician may, how-
ever, assist the tournament electrician in taking
care of the lighting.

Program. It is important that each group sub-
mit to the tournament committee as soon as pos-
sible a copy of its play. The play will be looked
over by the committee and decisions will be made
regarding length of playing time, type of stage
setting necessary, and other details. After all en-
tries have been turned in, the groups will draw
for the time and place in the program.

The contest will be limited to sixteen organiza—
tions, since it is felt desirable to run the contest
not more than four nights and to give not more
than four plays each evening. The first sixteen or-
ganizations to enter their plays will be permitted
to take part in the tournament. Any others wish-
ing to enter will be placed on a waiting list to take

the place of any groups which may withdraw
from the tournament.

Rehearsals. The auditorium will be available on
Tuesday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday preced-
ing the tournament for the use of participating
groups for a complete property and lighting re-
hearsal. Ample time will be given the actors to
gauge their voices and become familiar with the

DRAMA—A COMMUNITY RESPONSIBILITY 455

stage. A complete dress rehearsal will be possi-
ble only if it can be held in the time allotted for
the scenery rehearsal. Each group shall be. allow-
ed an hour and a half for its rehearsal.

Dressing Rooms, Costumes and Make-up. Play-
ers, in so far as possible, are asked to dress at
home. Each group will be given a room in which
to make final preparations for stage showing.
Make-up materials must be supplied by the
groups. Groups will wait in their dressing room
and a call boy will inform them ten minutes be-
fore their time of appearance. They will then
wait at the back—stage door entrance.

Each group is asked to cooperate in every way
possible to limit the amount of time between plays.
Stage hands should be ready to place the stage
equipment as soon as the stage is clear, and ma-
terial must be removed as quickly as possible.

Admission. The admission per night for the
tournament shall be twenty-five cents. For all four
nights of the tournament the admission price will
be fifty cents. The money received will be placed
in a fund for the purpose of stimulating dramatics
in Sioux City during the coming year. A block
of tickets will be given to each of the organiza-
tions participating, who are asked to do every-
thing possible to help build up the audience at the
tournament.

Publicity. Continued publicity on the contest and
your group in particular is absolutely necessary.
Anything of considerable
interest on the author of

A scene from "The Devil in the Chase."
Sheboygan. Wisconsin, Community Players

your play or anything your organization has done
which can be used for newspaper publicity is de-
sirable. An article regarding each play entered
will also help build up the publicity of the contest.

Awards. A beautiful trophy will be awarded to
the group presenting the best play. This will be
kept by the winning group for one year. A sec-
ond place trophy will be awarded to the group
presenting the second best play. Winning the
first place trophy three times, not necessarily in
succession, will give.the group permanent pos-
session of it.

Royalty Plays. If a royalty play is used, a maxi—
mum royalty fee of $5.00 will be paid each grOUp
out of the net receipts, providing the organiza-
tion competing has sold enough tickets to equal
this amount and a sufficient amount has been
taken in to cover all expenses. The royalty fee
must be paid to the publisher before the group
presents, the play in the tournament. Changing
the name of the play or any other method of try-
ing to avoid the royalty fee will not be,tolerated,
and any group failing to pay the royalty fee will
be disqualified.

Back-Stage Ruling. The very limited back-stage
space has necessitated the rule that no persons

'can be back—stage except those connected with

the play being presented at the time. This may
seem a harsh rule, but it is not fair to the group
presenting its play to have people laughing and
' talking back-stage. It is de-
sirable to give each group

 

456 DRAMA—A COMMUNITY RESPONSIBILITY

full use of the stage without any handicap during
the presentation of its plays. '

Constructive Criticism. An outstanding dramatic

critic will be selected to analyze the plays each eve-
ning and give constructive criticism on the plays
that have been presented. It is hoped that the
criticisms will assist the organizations to give bet—
ter presentations in the future.

Committee Organization

The success of a program of this type clearly
depends upon the cooperative effort of the entire
community. It is necessary, therefore, to plan
committees’ membership carefully and outline all

duties in detail.
The plan of committee organization for our

one-act play contest was as follows:
Stage Furnishings and Properties. To see that

proper stage furniture is on hand for various.

plays. This committee should see that deserved
acknowledgment is given on the programs.

Play Reading. To see that each play which is
being considered for entrance be carefully and
thoroughly read. Particular attention should be
given to such things as the proper classification
as to type; playing time; profanity; vulgar lines
and situations; propaganda themes; too difficult
stage settings; complicated lighting effects. If
necessary, the whole play may be ruled out, or
the committee may make recommendations as to
the cutting of lines, or anything else which will
make the play presentable.

This committee should see that all recommen-
dations be carried out, and should prepare a
synopsis of the play that can be used for publicity
purposes.

Reception Committee. To see that all groups
are made to feel at home; to do, anything that will
make everyone glad that he came; to create an air
of good fellowship.

Music. T 0 make contact with music organiza-
tions to provide music for the four nights of the
play, and to make those organizations feel that
they are an important part of the tournament.

Judging. To pass on the qualifications of all
judges offered by the various groups; to meet
with the judges and to make sure they understand
the proper procedure for judging of the. plays;
~ to outline the procedure for the critic judge and
to make recommendations to him for the pro-
Cedure to be followed in offering his critical
analyses to the various groups; to formulate a

plan for the selection of the outstanding per-
former in each group; to collect, record, and tabu-
late the result of the judges’ findings; and to
work out a plan whereby recognition can be given
to the outstanding player in each group.

House Committee. To select, and instruct ush-
ers, ticket takers, doormen, and other workers.

Publicity. To initiate any publicity for the genf
eral welfare of the tournament.
Finance Committee. To supervise all affairs of

finance of the tournament.

Staging Committee. To supervise the staging of
the plays. With the aid and help of the Recrea—
tion Department, the committee will supervise. the
electricians, the carpenters, stage hands and
others. It will meet with the head of each group,
decide on the type of set to be used, and deter-
mine the location of exits, iireplaces, furniture,
and lighting equipment. .

The Little Theater

The Recreation Department’s responsibility for
a drama program goes beyond the development
of a one—act play contest. Through the tourna-
ment a community—wide consciousness of drama
is developed, making it possible to expand into
many diversified fields of the theater.

At Sheboygan, Wisconsin, a little theater was
developed that is unique in its background. It
has no patron memberships and the many phases
of the program are available to the citizens at a
nominal membership fee of one dollar. This fee
permits the ‘member to attend all productions
given by members, all monthly theater nights, and
all lectures, courses and reading clubs of the or-
ganization, and to take part in any productions
that the players may give. At the present time
the little theater has about 1,000 members.

The history of the drama program at Sheboy-
gan shows a careful planning for the develop—
ment of a little theater. Six years ago, under the
Advisory Drama Committee which was selected
by the recreation director, a one—act play tourna—
ment was successfully presented. The next year
a course in the Art of Play Production was pre-
sented with an attendance of over I 50. The keen
interest in the one—act play contest and lectures
showed that this community was ready to launch
a little theater city-wide in scope.

The Superintendent of Schools, enthusiastic over
a city—wide drama program, assisted the Recrea-
tion Department in “securing a capable director for

(Continued cm page 482)

 

UR PROGRAM is so varied that
any individual in Chicago,

aside from infants or those
too old or infirm to get outside the home, can
scarcely avoid some form of service by the park
system, if one construes all of the attractions of
the parks as constituting a recreation service.

The concerts in ,Grant Park are sometimes at-
tended by an audience of over 100,000, when
noted soloists are to appear; but on these occa—
sions the concerts are also broadcast by one or
more local radio stations, and the musical pro-
gram service of' the Park District multiplies the
actual physical attendance by several fold.

Distinguished guests are tendered reception in
Soldier Field; Lindbergh was so recognized, for
example, and Hugo Eckener; and again the Sol-
dier Field audience of 100,000 or more was mag—
nihed by radio.

I dare say there is not a pleasure car in the city
which on occasion, at least, has
not borne a capacity number
of passengers along park bou-
levards where the car occu-
pants were aware of the land-
scape vistas through which
they passed; and if the pre—
sentation of beauty in land-

By V. K. BROWN

We asked Mr. BrownI Director of Rec-
reation of the Chicago Park District.
to give us an estimate at the number
of people reached by the recreation

program' of the District. His reply
was so interesting that we have de-

cided to share it with our readers.

 Wadi?“

How Many Are Served?

scaping isoconsidered a recreation
service, hardly a Chicagoan can be
said to have wholly avoided that
form of park service.

Checked on numerous occasions, our bathing
beach crowds have repeatedly been found to ex-
ceed the estimated attendance turned in by the
beach management, whose figures each year aggre-
gate from twelve to sixteen million, or more, to
say nothing of the numbers recorded as using'
swimming pools in the hinterlands. Every effort
is made by us to count, where possible, but where
estimating is employed, we check estimates, when-
ever opportunity and personnel permit. Airplane
photographs of crowded beaches, for example, are
usually dated when they reach our hands, and by
squaring off areas and making actual count of
such areas as of a typical pattern of occupancy,
at least a semblance of check is possible.

Similar check of crowds attending baseball
games, Fourth of July cele-
brations and major occasions
which bring out large num-
bers, gives us confidence that
they' bear some relation to
actual fact.

Our statistics do not reflect
repeat attendance by the same

457

458 HOW MANY ARE SERVED?

individuals on different occasions. One or two
studies have attempted to get at this problem:
The University of Chicago, for example, took
Ogden Park as a center, and on the map of the
city drew radiating lines extending for a mile and
half in every direction. Wherever these lines on
the map passed through a building, they inter-
viewed the occupants of that building, asking
them whether they or other members of the family
ever went to Ogden Park, and inquiring as to
frequency of such attendance. Although Ogden
is only one of the 137 parks of the city, the as-
tonishing fact was that practically every person
interviewed stated that he or she had been in the
park himself, and intimated that all members of
the family had, on some occasion, visited the park.

As to frequency of such attendance at the park,
the study proved that people rationalize answers
toI inquiries of this sort. Parents, for instance,
stiated that their children went to the park on an
average of twice a week. Taking the known den-
sity of population, and assuming that the answers
by the people actually interviewed were repre-
sentative, and computing the indicated frequency
as characterizing the entire known and recorded
population of the area covered, the study was
shown to :be invalid by the fact that Ogden Park
could not accommodate the average daily attend—
ance which people told investigators was their ha-
bitual attendance. In other words, they over-esti-
mated the frequency with which they or their
children actually went to the park.

I think the study, however, does have some
value in answering the question asked as to how
many people, at one time or another, really are
served by our recreation facilities, since it is not
probable that people who had never, at any time,
been in the park, would claim that they made a
regular practice of going there. It is highly prob—
able that they over-estimated the frequency of
their attendance, but some occasional attendance,
I feel, is almost certainly indicated by the results
we got in that inquiry.

We made another study at the same park, main-
taining a control for five successive days at every
gate and avenue of entrance, and asking people to
Sign cards, which were'filled, and which, thereby,
permitted checking of repeat entrances. There
were some few who refused to sign, fearful that
some other use might be made of the records, and
no pressure was brought to bear on those reluctant
to cooperate. Unfortunately, the weather in the
Five-day period was unfavorable. It was a sum-

mer period in which baseball diamonds were un-
usable because of daily rain, and cold weather,
limited swimming. Clay tennis courts were used
on only one day of the five, and there were no
major attractions to bring unusual crowds. The
period did not include a week-end, with its nor-
mal heavy outpouring. But notwithstanding these
adverse conditions, over 9,800 different individ—
uals, pursuing at most only their normal use of
the facilities provided, actually passed through
the park gates.

Since we have over sixty park centers similar
in facilities and attractions to Ogden Park—to say
nothing of the large parks which have a greater
variety of attractions, and some sixty more smal—
ler parks which have lesser attractions ——this
study makes it safe to assume that the recorded
attendance at the one institution in question over
the period of five days only, can safely be multi-
plied by sixty as an index of more or less regular
and habitual park use during the summer months.

Use of larger parks, such as Lincoln, Jackson,
and Garfield, is undoubtedly much greater than
the use of such a park as Ogden. Seasonal varia-
tions add other individuals and I believe I would
be safe in making the statement that this study
indicates, at least, a more or less habitual park use
by a minimum of one million out of Chicago’s
three million population. '

Occasional use, then when one considers all of
the varied uses which people make of our parks in
the city—the enormous picnic parties, the zoo and
floral attractions, the miscellaneous strolling or
motoring along the lake shore in the evenings or
on warm Sunday holidays in spring or fall, visits
to the lake shore for the sake of the cooling breeze
in the heat of summer, attendance at major at-
tractions such as firework displays on July 4th,
civic celebrations and receptions, spectacular
games or tournaments, etc.—~occasional use, in all
of its multiple forms, I think, touches almost
every resident of the city; but frequent and ha—
bitual use, I think, is conservatively, rather than
extravagantly, estimated at one—third of Chicago’s
population.

The parks in Chicago are centers for almost
every adult community group, such as civic im-
provement associations, parent—teacher groups,
women’s clubs, cultural associations, luncheon
clubs, these all make use at some time or another
of our facilities. Chicago seems to have an es-
tablished habit of park usage. There is a well de—

(Continued on page 482)

Home Recreation

By DANIEL CARPENTER
Hudson Guild
New York City

OME RECREATION, as spoken of to-
day, is rooted in the past. Many
of the activities we now think of

as recreational were essential functions
of the home in the simple rural society
that preceded the growth of large fac-
tories and the concentration of popu—
lation in large cities. The city home is
no longer a productive unit. It is now
merely a place where the family mem—
bers live, as contrasted with the homes
of a generation ago where the family

not only lived together but worked together to

produce the necessities of life. The loss of close
family relationships that came from sharing the
burdens and pleasures of this kind of an existence
has robbed the home of much of its completeness
. and has taken away the satisfaction that came with
the adventure, creative work, and thought inherent
in sustaining life in a noniindustrial society.

Although these facts have long been recognized,
they have added significance today because hours
of work have been reduced so that now there is
an abundance of leisure, and it is quite evident
that in the future there will be an increase of lei-
sure time. Great concern is felt over the unpre-
paredness of our population for its use. It is not
necessary to give examples here of the question-
able uses made of leisure time. All of you can
look about in your own circle of friends and ac-
quaintances and find many who are completely
bored and lost with extra time, or those who use
their free time in such a Way as to leave them
physically exhausted and mentally sluggish. It is
said that in the offices throughout the city, Mon—
days are often dull days—hangovers, sore muscles.
and sunburn are frequent results of our present
consumption of leisure time.

This over—indulgence on the part of adults is
reflected in the lives of their children. First, some-
what indirectly, it is establishing a social pattern
for them to follow; and secondly, it is affecting

 

Courtesy Child Study Association

their physical well-being. For example, on Mon—
days in the Play School of Hudson Guild the
teachers report large numbers of restless, tired
and nervous children. Investigation almost in-
variably reveals that the family routine has been
disrupted in week-end pleasure. It is of utmost
importance that parents begin to realize how their
‘use of leisure affects not only the play time of
their children but their health, social attitudes,
and happiness.

It is impossible to predict what vocation or pro-
fession our children should choose until they are
able to decide intelligently for themselves, and it
is likewise just as impossible for us to select an
avocation, hobby or leisure time activity for them.
The only thing we can do is to give them every
opportunity to develop to their fullest capacity,
to have as many and as varied experiences ‘as pos—
sible, so that they will be able to discriminate and
choose wisely for themselves. The home, then,
should be a place where children’s interests count
for something, where the mother and father are
sympathetic with their needs, and where children
feel the affection of other members of the family.

Home recreation does not require expensive or
elaborate equipment or large spacious rooms. It
is not a matter of resources, but rather a desire
on the part of the parents to live with their chil-
dren. The important factor is an atmosphere of
happiness, affection, and understanding between

459

460 HOME RECREATION

parents and children, and perhaps, even more im-
portant, an awareness on the part of the parents
that their children live in a child’s world where
play is a serious business.

Parents are usually at a loss to know what they
can do at home together with their children be-
cause their homes are small and they do not have
the money for extra entertainments. Home rec-
reation fortunately has no boundaries as far as
the range and nature of the activities are con-
cerned. There are many interesting and exciting
things, such as games, stories, crafts, singing and
dramatic play, that can be done in a crowded liv-
ing room or kitchen, with no additional strain on
the family budget, if mothers and fathers employ
a certain amount of ingenuity in using what they
have for play as occasions arise.

Children sometimes find more real pleasure and
satisfaction in playing with pots and pans from
under the stove than they do in owning the most
expensive toys. For example, in one home two
small boys, .both four years old, enjoy a rainy
afternoon having a tea party under the kitchen
table, using cups and saucers that no longer
matched, while a whole corner full of very color-
ful and exciting toys were completely forgotten.
Recently a parent told of a series of games he had
made frOm odds and ends he had found on 'the
top shelf of the kitchen cupboard. One game, ring
toss, was made from clothes pins stuck on card-
board, with mason jar rubbers serving as rings.
It might be interesting for parents to know that a
trained recreation leader invariably goes to the
kitchen for most of his equipment for children's
parties and games.

Fathers and mothers
often ask: “What can I

N.

live boy?” usually the answer is “No; since he
was old enough to play on the street and go to
school I haven’t paid much attention to him ex-
cept to see that he changes his clothes regularly,
has enough to eat, gets to bed and to school on
time, and goes to church regularly.”

This taking for granted our children’s self care
and resourcefulness has resulted in a loss to them
and has been reflected in the lives of the youth of
today. The suggestion that young people spend
an afternoon or an evening at home with the
family is usually met with the reaction that the
initiator of such an idea cannot possibly be in
earnest! In other words, young people haven’t
learned to feel “at home” at home. On the other
hand, in every community a few families do
stand out as examples of a finer kind of home life.
The children,have an entirely different attitude
about the home and the family, and this attitude
is reflected wherever they go. They seem to have
security and a certain amount of stability. They
invite people to the house and enjoy having their
mother and father around. These parents are con-
sidered “regular” and good sports by their chil-
dren and their friends. They have learned the joy
of living with their children rather than for them
or in spite of them.

Parent-Children Activities in Chelsea

Last winter and spring were very trying periods
for mothers due to the unusual number of chil-
dren’s diseases which kept the children away from
school for several weeks at a time. One mother
with four young children varying in age fgom five
to ten and living in four small rooms, was in—

genious enough to build
and completely furnish

do about my boy? He
doesn’t seem interested
in anything I think he
should be. He continu-
ally hangs around on
the street with his gang.
He just won’t listen to
me any more. Won’t
you talk to him i’”

If you “ask this
mother": “Do you en-
courage your son to in—
vite his pals up to the
house? Does he have
anything at home that
would interest a real

At the meeting on Home Play at the Recreation
Congress. the following conclusions were presented:

The will to play is the most important element in
home recreation.

Parents must be helpedI not replaced.

Planning is more important than equipment.

The parents’ attitude toward their children must
be that they are play mates, not play things.

Time must be budgeted to provide for play.

Genuine interest does not need the stimulation
of prizes or competitions.

Families must be encouraged to relax and enioy
hours of leisure.

The value of bringing the family out of the home
to recreation lies in their taking it back into the
home.

Most important of allI neither the playground nor
the home can alone bring success. it must be a
united effort.

a doll house with rugs,
curtains, upholstered
fUrniture, bookcases,
and a fireplace. This
was done with just the
odds and ends of ma-
terial on hand, remnants
of cloth, paste, card-
board, needles and
thread, and two orange
crates from the corner
grocer. It kept the chil-
dren busy and happy
for several days during
their convalescence
from chicken-pox. Re-

HOME RECREA TION 461

cently the father. of the family made a small chest
with compartments of various sizes in which to
keep odds and ends to be used on other occasions.

In another home, a rear apartment in a tene—
ment, live a father and his two sons, one nine and
one eleven, who work together on stamp collec-
tions. Several evenings each week these collec-
tions are spread out on the dining room table and
are discussed excitedly. Trading is carried on
with all the seriousness of an important business
deal. Frequently this father and his sons can be
found together at stamp exhibits throughout the
city. This illustrates how through a hobby one
father is getting much pleasure in. sharing a com—
mon interest with his children. ,

Music has a very important place in the homes
of Chelsea, especially in those families with Italian
or other European backgrounds. One of the most
interesting homes is on Tenth Avenue. Here,
while the mother and oldest daughter are finishing
the housework after dinner, the father plays the
violin, accompanied by the two boys, one with
harmonica and the other with a violin. When the
work is done the mother and daughter join with
them in singing. An appreciation of music is one
of the most socializing and satisfying experiences
a family group can have.

One home I have known since childhood is
reminiscent of the play, “You Can’t Take It with
You.” Though it would not in all probability ap-
peal to the fastidious taste of most housekeepers,
was a real paradise to the family and to the chil—
dren of the neighborhood. The father was some-
what of an amateur inventor, and from basement
to attic there were all kinds of fascinating gadgets
that were supposedly labor saving devices. For-
tunately he was pleased at the children’s interest
in his hobbies and spent much time building things
with them, such as a sidewalk auto, engines and
kites.

The home, too, offers a natural setting for read-
ing and storytelling, which appeal to children of
all ages. In many homes- there is a definite story
hour, usually just before bedtime. One family
takes great pride in a collection of books that has
been added to as the children grew older. It now
fills a large bookcase, and in addition to develop—
ing an interest in their own books, it has en-
couraged the children to use the public and private
libraries of the neighborhood. A good selection of
children’s books is now available at many of the
large stores, and many parents are taking advan-
tage of this fact.

Crafts are often considered too space-consum-
ing and inconvenient to encourage in the home.
Nevertheless, several of the children and mothers
who attend the craft classes at the Hudson Guild
do clay modeling, weaving and woodcarving at
home, and bring in the articles for the craft teach-
er’s criticism and advice. In many of the homes
the mothers and daughters do a great deal of sew-
ing and knitting. In one home nearly half a room
is devoted to photography equipment which is the
hobby of three members of the family. Several
families in the neighborhood derive satisfaction
from making scrapbooks. At a recent exhibit of
homecrafts over twenty mothers exhibited scrap-
books which were all attractively bound, the con-
tents of which covered a wide range of interesting
subjects. _

Although parties are the right of every child
and are always enjoyed by them, they need not be
elaborate or expensive. It is not always advisable
to have parties for children under six or seven
years of age, for they are liable to be too exciting.
For the child this age occasionally to have one or
two of his playmates at his home just to play is
usually enough. Older children should be en-
couraged to want parties at home and to help plan
the games and refreshments beforehand.

Last winter a small committee of mothers in
the Hudson Guild Parents’ Association worked
out a series of Christmas parties adapted to a
small apartment. Everyone was ainazed at the
small cost involved and at the fun it was possible
to have when careful planning preceded the party.
They found that for an expenditure of only sixty-
nine cents, a party for ten children could be made
very successful. Birthdays and holiday eves are
excellent occasions for parents to meet the friends
of their children and at the same time make the
home a place where their friends are welcome.

Family recreation need not be confined to the
four walls of the apartment. It can be an ever-
expanding number of adventures with the home
as the center. In New YOrk City the family can
find the treasures of the world in museums and
art galleries; libraries and parks are near their
homes. As parents. it is not only our privilege to
enjoy these opportunities but it is also our re—
sponsibility to introduce our children to them.
The city or state can only provide opportunities
for a more satisfactory kind of recreation. It is
up to the home to encourage a more complete use
of the outlets the community offers.

“(Continued on page 482)

Calendar tor Public Recreation Administration

type which follows

is to be of practical
use, it must be flexible; thus the items listed below

are not particularly arranged in chronological
order.

IF A CALENDAR of the

Administrative Tasks During the
' Winter Season

Prepare budget for the new year. 1

Check program and plans made at the begin-
ning of the year with what has materialized.:l:

Prepare plans and program for the new year. i

Take annual inventory of stock, supplies and
equipmentil:

Prepare supply and equipment list for the new
yeah:

Write “thank you” letters for the fall season.

Prepare and forward data for recreation YEAR
BOOK of the National Recreation Association.

Have department books audited. 

Bring costs records up to date. * 5,:

Prepare annual report. i ‘

Hold~annual meeting. 1

Secure “mid-season” ratings on recreation
workers.

Hold winter volunteer leaders institute.

Prepare fees and charges list and collect any
necessary “entrance” fees for the spring season.

Secure end-of-season reports from directors on
suggestions for improving next years fall and
winter programs.

Publish spring directory. **

Make winter season awards.

Administrative Tasks During the
Spring Season

Secure registration, attendance and other nec-
essary details from centers.

Take inventory of fall and
winter supplies and equipment
at the end of indoor season.

Write “thank you” letters
for winter season.

Secure ratings on recreation
workers at end of indoor
season.

Have winter workers’ person-
nel records brought up to date.

462

sibilities. The

Compiled by CHARLES K. BRIGHTBILL
National Recreation Association

This is not a calendar on program and
activities! It is designed to aid ad-
ministrators ot_ municipal recreation
programs in systematizing some of the
details of their administrative respon-
National Recreation
Association will appreciate receiving
from recreation executives and otii-
cials their comments on the calendar
and their suggestions as to how it ma assignments, schedules
be made more practical and helptuh

Secure reports from
custodians on condition
of buildings, equipment
and supplies at end of indoor season.

Prepare list of suggested changes and improve-
ments to centers and present to proper authorities.

Secure financial reports from clubs (parent rec-
reation clubs and others) at end of indoor season.

Prepare summer program.

Prepare material and make arrangements for
summer playground leaders institute. ***

Interview applicants and select workers for the
summer positions.

Prepare fees and charges list and collect any
necessary entrance fees for the summer season.

Interview high school seniors on plans for rec-
reation activity after graduation.

Check grounds, apparatus and equipment for
the outdoor season.

Make spring season awards. .
Publish summer directory. **

Administrative Tasks During the
Summer Season

Write “thank you” letters for the spring season.
Hold playground leaders institute. ***

Secure registration and attendance for play-
grounds, parks and other centers.

“ ' 1 0 I
Secure nnd-season ’ ratings on recreation
workers.

Secure end—of-season suggestions from recrea~
tlon workers on suggestions for improving next
’ I
year 5 spring and summer programs.

Secure end-of-season reports from caretakers
on condition of grounds.

Check supplies and equipment of outdoor
season.

Secure end-of—season rating on workers.

Make summer season
awards.

Prepare fall program.

 

1 Dependent upon ending of fiscal year

*Cost records for the operation and
development of areas, centers and
facilities

** List of all playgrounds (or centers
or other places), program, capacity,
location, facilities

Including instructions to new work-
ers on rules, regulations, routine,

iii

(Continued on page 482)

More Parks for the People

Since its establishment in l92l, one man has

served continuously in guiding the develop-
ment of the Akron Metropolitan Park District

AROLD S. WAGNER, who
H was elected president
of the American In—
stitute of Park Executives
at the annual meeting held
at Fort Worth, in Sep-
tember 1937, is the director—
secretary of the Board of
Park Commissioners of the
Akron, Ohio, Metropolitan
Park District. This district,
formed in 1921, now has a '
total acreage of 2,026 acres
acquired through gift and
purchase. Mr. Wagner has
been its superintendent from
the beginning and the di-
rector of its entire develop-
ment. Prior to that he was
for about three years super-
intendent of the Park De—
partment of the city of
Akron, having come to the
city in 1917 as director of the real estate develop—
ment known as Fairlawn Heights. From his child—
hood days he had been associated with the Arnold
Arboretum in Boston, where he was born, and at
one time was an associate of Warren H. Manning.
The Metropolitan Park District of Akron in-
cludes all of Summit County with the exception
of one township and the village of Hudson. It is
financed by a one-tenth of a mill levy and by a
small direct county appropriation. The present
budget totals about $45,000. It was not until 1924
that the first direct appropriation was made and
in 1928 that the special levy was first passed by
popular vote, about two years after Mr. Wagner
became superintendent. The district has had con—
siderable Federal aid of recent years, having been

the location of a CCC camp.
The park area is divided into five distinct parks
varying in size from 128 to 550 acres, which have

 

HAROLD S. WAGNER

been developed to provide
varied activities. It is esti-
mated that they are used by
about a million people a
year. Four of the areas in—
clude lakes, all of which are
used for skating, and two
for swimming.

Virginia Kendall Park

One of the most interest—
ing developments of the
district is Virginia Kendall
Park, a tract of 430 acres,
embracing a wooded plateau
of some twenty-five acres,
which stands from seventy—
five to a hundred feet above
the surrounding land. In
1925, when the survey for
the development of the local
metropolitan park system
was drawn, Olmsted Broth—
ers indicated that this area would provide one of
the finest park sites in the vicinity.

In the year 1928 Captain Hayward Kendall
passed away. He was a Cleveland man who had
been in the coal business "and who had acquired
fifteen or twenty separate parcels of land in order
to control the sandstone ledges, originally known
as the Ritchie Ledges. He made a bequest of the
property to his widow, who in turn relinquished
her interest in it and permitted the terms of the
Kendall will to be carried out to the end that the
property might pass into the hands of the state of
Ohio. The state accepted the land in 1929 and
continued its administration until 1933 when by
an act of the General Assembly the control passed
into the hands of the Akron Metropolitan Park
District. The income from the balance of Cap-
tain Kendall’s estate will eventually come to the
park administrative authorities for the mainte—

463

404 MORE PARKS FOR THE PEOPLE

 , ._  I ‘- of chestnut logs from trees killed
i i by the chestnut blight disease and
from stone quarried in a near-by
property of the Park Board. The
planting is entirely native, no exo-
tics whatever having been used.
From these standpoints the area
probably has a wholly unique
character.

A remodeled farmhouse has
served for the past four years as
a day camp for children of Akron.
Between fifty and a lmndred boys
or girls are transported from the
city playgrounds to the area for a
full day in the country. Many of
these children have never had this
kind of an opportunity. The CO-

 

nance and development of the area and the acqui- operation of the Akron Board of Education has
sition of additional adjacent land. made the project possible.

The local Park Board, which took control of In the vicinity of the lake all forms of winter
the property in September sports can be enjoyed. Judg—
1933, was fortunate in secur— In the Virginia Kendall Park a lake of ing by the experience of the
ing the assistance of the Na- ihlrieen acres is being deVEI‘J‘PNI 65 a winter of 1935-1936, the skat—

bathing and boating area. At the left

. there ,is a parking area. A pier sepa- . . .
CCC program early in Decem rafes +he boa+ing area from +he ba+h_ act1v1t1es of the Cleveland-

ber of that year. A company Eng space. The upper level of +he Akron area will center at this
continues on duty there and loath house includes an open shelter Park-

tional Park Service under the ing, tobogganing and skiing

up to this time it has con- providing space for the checking of In the development and pres-
structed a thirteen acre lake, °l°+l1ln9- The two Win95 are Open' ervation of this area great care
two park roads which take the 5+°°kades w'lh 5°me dreSSlng r°°m5° has been taken to undertake
form of culs—de-sac terminat— projects which later may be
ing in parking areas, the one to the family picnic maintained at a minimum cost. Special facilities,
place on t0p of the plateau and the other to a such as bathing, which involves the employment
large group picnic place on the lowland west of (Continued 0,, page 433)

the ledges. In addition, it has been
necessary to construct a complete
water supply system and sewerage
disposal system, together with the
customary trails and open spaces
for play. Actually the area is a
dozen miles from Akron and
twice as many from Cleveland, but
the facilities offered are of such a
.varied natUre that the use is about
equally divided between the metro-
politan cities. Great care has been
taken not to overdevelop the area
and some degree of success has
been achieved in this objective.
The structures which have been
completed have been built of harm
ber derived from the fabrication

 

Professional Reading and lts Values

HE PRIMARY purpose of
professional reading is

for individual growth.
The individual who reads ex-
haustively along the line of
his own interest will gain in
power-and knowledge, and if
he reads extensively in re—
lated fields he will have not
only a better comprehension
of his own particular prob-
lem but an understanding and
sympathy for the problems
of others. ‘This promotes
group integration and growth. A teaching staff,
all of whose members are reading in a wide field,
will have a basis for exchange of ideas and the
means for working out new ideas together. Pro-
fessional reading is necessary if workers are not
to get in a rut. A teacher may be working out an
activity program, but unless she has read widely
and exposed herself to different presentations of
the subject and made the phi1050phy back of the
idea her own, her work is quite likely to become
stereotyped and to lose the life and spirit that the
real activity program should have.

This is just one example; others could be made
in the fields of Social Service, School Teaching
and Occupational Therapy. We must be con-
stantly careful not to lose sight of wide horizons
while concerning ourselves with pebbles under
foot.

cle for

Sources of Help

For professional growth a worker needs to be
ever on the alert for new ideas and for substan-
tiation of old ideas and philosophies. The Special
Education Staff of. the University Hospital has
found a few outstanding reference books to be
especially helpful and interesting. Time permits
specific reference to only a few of these.

In the Field of Art. The book entitled Teaching
Creative Art in Schools by Rosalind and Arthur
Eccott has helped miraculously to clarify some of
the basic principles of art teaching with little chil-
dren. It is brief and specific combining a discus—
sion of art with many practical and useable
suggestions.

By MILDRED WALTON

In this article Mrs. Waltonl who is the
Supervisor of the Special Activity Pro-
gram of the University
Arbor. tells how the extensive reading
of books relating to special interests
has aided in developments in the fields
of art. music. drama. nature study and
literature. Although the program-out-
lined is carried on with children who
are physically handicappedI there are
many suggestions in Mrs. Walton's arti-
leaders ‘ of normal

‘-

ln the Field of Music. An

excellent chapter on old and
new education and two on
the nurture of creativeness
will be found in Creative
School Music. It is a very in-
teresting book and has much
imaterial that is directly help-
ful in the teaching of group
music.

In the Field of Literature. In
First Experiences with Liter-
ature-by Alice Dalgleish we
have a book which serves in
the understanding of Literature for young chil-
dren as the Teaching Creative Art in Schools does
for the understanding of children’s art. It has
simple and direct style with a wealth of illustra-

Hospital at Ann

children.

' tive material.

In the Field of Dramatics. A book on Creative
Dramatic: by Winifred Ward contains some very
good material on the meaning and value of crea—
tive dramatics.

In the Field of Nature Study Conistock’s Hand—
book of Nature Study is in almost constant use.
This is an excellent reference book for Nature
Study."

General Reference Books: A book well worth
reading just because of its readableness and its
clear and concise presentation of the meaning of
activity program is The Activity Program, writ-
ten by A. Gordon Melvin. It also contains‘many
practical suggestions of use in planning special
activities programs. The plan of the book as ex-
pressed in the first chapter is “to outline an ap-
proach and a method of teaching which.will en—
able children to fulfill their own lives and in so
doing enrich the lives of their fellow men.”

Helping with Special Interests

The type of professional reading done may be
determined by individual problems based on spe—
cial interests. The value of such research lies in
the fact that it gives the individual teacher an op-
portunity to carry through a more or less complete
investigation of a pet interest—research which is
bound to result in a real contribution to the chil-
dren with whom the teacher has contacts. More—

465

466 PROFESSIONAL READING AND ITS VALUES

over, the staff of which the teacher making the
study is a member is. sure to benefit from her
work. a

The outstanding individual interests in the
Special Education Department which have borne

fruit this year are:
“The Study of Art Appreciation in Children,”

by Mrs. Piat
“The Study of Creative Art for Children,” by

Mrs. Bannow
“The Study of Puppetry,” by Miss Dickinson
“Story Telling,” by Mrs. Evers ‘
Art Appreciation. In her study of art apprecia-

tion Mrs. Piat has outlined her objectives as

follows:

To give the child the opportunity to look at
good pictures is to expose him to good pictures
whether he gets anything out of it or not.

To enrich the child’s experience with a picture,
if he is ready for it, by telling its title, its painter,
and perhaps something about the story in the
picture. '

To have a file of noteworthy pictures that can
be used by everyone. This study began because
of the teacher’s own interest in pictures, her de-
sire and willingness to spend time reading and
studying and working out a method of presenta-
tion of pictures that would appeal to childrenl
The first two objectives are being realized con-
stantly, and the children are pronting immeasur-
ably. The third objective has also been realized,
for the file of pictures has grown from a very few
to 125 medium sized pictures mounted in single
colored folders and 200 small prints which are
being used individually and also °with stereopti-
con glass. From time to time the Art Library in
Alumni Memorial Hall loans us large prints of
famous pictures with which the children have
already become familiar. The lives of all children
who have had experience
with this program have
been enriched.

Creative Art. The study
of creative art for chil-
dren as conducted by Mrs.
Bannow has as its objec-
tive the discovery and
pointing out of new oppor-
tunities for self-expres-
sion. The reading and
study done have been for
the purpose of Finding out
all possible means for pro-

''A wide reading experience makes every other
experience more meaningful. Every lecture.
every professional conference. every individ-
ual contact contributes more to the person
who reads than to one who does not. It a
teacher has been interested. for example. in
creative art. and has read much concerning
it. she will get twice as much out of a lecture
on the 'Place of Creative Art in Modern
Education' than she otherwise would: If the
lecturer says nothing new. what he says. it
it is a good lecture. will clarify what she
has read. Everyone who has attended pro-
fessional meetings knows this to be true."

viding an environment which is rich in suggesting
materials for the creative impulses.

Some of the conclusions reached through this
study are that it is important to glide the child
rather than to instruct him, and to understand
what he wants to do. The teacher should never
interfere with the child’s image by telling him how
to begin. Once he has begun, assistance is help-

ful but getting an idea started is the most difficult 1

part of a teacher’s task.

Still another conclusion is that the child must
be helped to the fullest expression within the
limits of the natural stage of deve10pment. He
should have free use of materials to draw, model
and paint at will, just as he plays with blocks and
toys. For children over twelve years of age we
must encourage good work from those whose cre-
ative urge, as is usual between the ages of twelve
and fourteen, has died down. We want to stimu-
late interest and keenness in these older children.
To this end materials must be presented in attrac-
tive ways.

If through such a study and its resulting atti-
tudes our children, while here in the hospital, can
learn the joys of creating beautiful things with
their hands, all the time expended will be worth
while.

Puppetry. The study of puppetry by Miss Dick-
inson has produced very tangible results. Several
puppets have been made which have become de-
lightful- personalities to the children. An attrac-
tive puppet theater was constructed in the Galen
Shop and has already made its debut in the wards
with the presentation of “The Little Red Hen.”
There are endless possibilities in puppetry.

Miss Dickinson’s primary objective was to use
puppets to add variety and interest to the after-
noon ward program. When she began this project
she did not realize how ’widespread the interest
was to become among
teachers as well as chil-
dren. Puppets are more
than just a means of en-
tertainment. Real artistry
is employed in their con-
struction, and they are.in-
valuable in stimulating
imagination and dramatic
expression.

Storytelling. The stucly
of storytelling by Mrs.
Evers has as its objective

(Continued on page 484)

Noon Socials

noon activities conducted by the
Kenosha Department of Public
Recreation in cooperation with the
high school, will be resumed this November. -
The “noon socials," as they are popularly re»
ferred to by the high school students, were planned
in order that high school students eating their
noon lunch at school might have some place in
which they could enjoyably spend their leisure
time. During the six months it is estimated that
approximately ninety per cent of the students who
remained in school during the noon hour have
been active participants in the center. Activities
of a varied nature were carried on.

I NAUGURATED in the fall of 1937, the

The Background

Being the only high school in the city with a
population of over 50,000 inhabitants, the Ke-
nosha High School has a student enrollment of
over 2,200. Located just three blocksfrom the
center of the downtown business district, the
student body consists of pupils from various sec-
tions of the city and county. Coming as they do

from the surrounding rural areas and distant'

parts of the city proper, many students lind it
necessary to bring their lunches and remain at
school during the noon hour. Thus the problem
arose: “How can I spend this extra time I have
on my hands?” Not only did the school itself
have a problem to tackle, but the merchants were
also victims of this dilemma.

Although there was a room provided in the
school in which the pupils could eat their lunches,
there was always a large group of idle students.
With this extra time on their hands, many of the
students roamed around the business district of
the city. Some wandered through the five and
ten cent stores, loafed in pool halls, or joined the
proverbial “drug store cowboys” on the street
corners. A few diligent schol-
ars remained in the classrooms
and made use of their time do-
ing home work and studying.

What was to be done with
the group of uncared for boys
and girls, numbering over 200, .
how could some means of
utilization of leisure be pro-

By G. M. PHELAN

Director ot Recreation
Kenosha, Wisconsin

.-
\‘~ 1".

Kenosha's "noon socials" are solving
the problem of the idle noon hour
recess when the student. having eaten
the lunch brought from home' has
nothing definite to do. The center es-
tablished in Kenosha has met with great
success and has been made a perma-
nent part of the recreation program.

vided? Was it worth while to make
an effort to solve this perplexing
situation, or should the city and
merchants ignore it, adopt a cynical
attitude and say, “who cares what they do in their
extra time? It’s their business, not ours.”
Believing it was highly desirable to make this
leisure time count, the high school and the Recre—
ation Department in the fall of 1937 attempted to
work out a solution of the problem. A survey of
the conditions existing among the boys and girls
who remained at school during the noon hours
was made. The Department tabulated and record-
ed the predominating interests of the 200 students
who were in school during the noon hour. With
the statistics gathered from the study, an estab-
lished plan for social recreation was outlined.

The Plan

Patterned after the majority of interests of the
200 students that were indicated by the survey,
the high school provided a director in charge of
the “socials” ; the Department of Recreation fur—
nished play leaders. Using the empty classrooms
and gymnasium provided by the high school, over
180 students out of the 200 who remained in the
school during the noon hour took active part in
the activities. Following the plan of the evening
social centers, the program was arranged so there
was always a definite enrollment for each activity.
It was not imperative, however, that everyone
take part in an activity. Participation was left
to the discretion of the individual. Nevertheless,
although participation was not compulsory, the
student was not allowed to duplicate more than
his share in other activities because he failed to
be interested in some other one.

Developing the technique in dramatics which
was taught twice a week, assembly programs for
the entire school were originated and presented.’
Game rooms were provided
for in which instruction in
checkers, carroms and chess
was given. Together with table
tennis, these games were car-
ried on four days in the week.

Classes in gymnastics were
formed in which the skills for

(Continued on page 484)
467

A Marine Museum

HE Los ANGELES, California,

Department of Playground

and Recreation has long
recognized the value of nature
as a hobby and has been doing
pioneer work along this line.
The department is conducting
nature hobby classes in a
number of its playgrounds,
and by taking advantage of
its beaches as an asset for
nature study it is developing a marine museum
at the Cabrillo Beach Playground in San Pedro
which is known as the Cabrillo Marine
Museum.

The museum, which has the distinction of
starting from “scratch” without the backing
of any interested society or linancial support,
was conceived by C. P. L. N icholls, Supervisor
of the Aquatic Division of the Department. As
no funds were available for the project, a start
was made in a small room on Sunset Pier,
Venice, California. Scrap lumber from the
storeroom was used for shelves and tables.
Cardboard boxes were- donated by dry good
stores, and used bottles were secured from
restaurants. Word was sent out in the com-
munity that specimens were needed, and soon
the museum was under way. A nature hike
along the beach two mornings a week resulted
in 'many specimens. Crippled and dead birds,
shells, crabs, and many other forms of sea life,
including algae, began to pour in.

Ini- six months the mu-
seum room was overflow-
ing and larger quarters
were needed. The museum
was then moved to Ca-
brillo Beach in San Pedro,
where a large room was set
aside for a marine museum.
This was soon filled and
the space was doubled.
Now, at the end of three
years, we are again crowded
and must seek new
quarters.

The museum now con-
tains 10,000 specimens and

468

A tascinating but inex-
pensive proiect which is
serving both educational
and recreational ends

By WILLIAM L. LLOYD
Director. Marine Museum

"Nature study meets all the requirements
of a good hobby. It deals with lite it-
self and is therefore intensely interest-
ing. Without any cost children can col-
lect flowers, leaves and seeds. press
them and make drawingsI spatter prints
or other forms of impression work. Later.
as interest grows, notes may be kept
of the specimens gathered. Insects,
minerals and shells may be collected.
Geology and the study of the stars can
be pursued at little or no cost. It
money is available nature photography city.
makes an intensely interesting hobby."

is valued at about $20,000.
Not a single specimen has
been purchased and l more
than half of them have been
presented one or two at a
time by children and adults,
many of them visitors from
other states. In every in-
stance the name of the donor
is placed with the specimen.
This has resulted in increased
interest and a feeling of proprietorship in the
museum by people representing many states.

The Collection

The museum collection is composed of a
large number of shells, both Pacific Coast and
foreign, many other invertebrates such as
crabs, sea-urchins, starfish, and marine worms.
It also includes fossils, and over a hundred
specimens of birds to be found in or around
the water. The fish collection ranges from tiny
minnows to eight-foot sharks. About I 50
species are now represented. We also have a
small aquarium of twelve units, and a small
group of seals now has a place in the museum.

Several ship models, an Eskimo canoe and
fishing equipment, and a collection of sailor
knots represent a start toward a maritime

111118611111.

Our Visitors

The museum was visited the past year by
[48,666 people, and of these
about 15,000 have come for
study or help with their
nature problems. Among
the groups visiting the mu-
seum for study are Boy
and Girl Scouts and similar
organizations, nature clubs,
schools, colleges, universi-
ties, and societies of various
kinds. The museum also
furnishes material for na-
ture study and for exhibits
and lectures throughout the

(Continued on page 434)

HE IMPORTANCE of making a careful study of
Tthe potential and actual uses of different types

of land has been emphasized by Dr. L. Dudley
Stamp of the University of London who served
as Director of a Land Utilization Survey of Bri-
tain. Dr. Stamp spent a year in this country,
through a grant from the Rockefeller Founda-
tion, for the purpose of observing American
methods of land utilization and also to interest
American leaders in studying the best possible
land uses. In a visit to the office of the National
Recreation Association, Dr. Stamp raised a num-
ber of questions about the recreational use of land
and also pointed out a number of respects in
which land planning in Great Britain differs from
that in the United States.

One of his comments related to the fact that he
had observed comparatively little hiking in this
country as compared with Great Britain. On the
other hand, a much more widespread use of the
automobile as a means of getting from place to
place was noted. The. greater popularity. of hik-
ing in Great Britain -is due in part to the rela-
tively short distances between communities and
perhaps even more to the net-work of trails found
in that country. Most of these trails have existed
for centuries, and although they extend for the
most part over private property, they cannot be
closed to public use. An association has been

formed in England to maintain and extend these
trails and also to develop trails to points of special
interest. In some cases where the ownership of
the land is in question, the society has entered
into an arrangement with the person claiming
ownership whereby in recognition of his vested
rights to the property he is willing to sign an
agreement that on the payment of a nominal sum
each year by the society, the land is to be open to
the public in perpetuity. This
disposition also provides that
in the case of transfer of the
land, the public shall continue
to have access upon payment
of the annual fee.

The absence of fences and
hedges in this country was a
matter of special observation
by Dr. Stamp. He emphasiz-
ed the fact that Englishmen

"Each year adds increased emphasis to
the fact that public use of national
forests for a wide variety of forms of
outdoor recreation is a maior use and
service for which adequate provision

should be made in all plans of admin-
istration and management. The social

values and beneficial consequences of
such use are incalculable."—From the

Report of the Forester, I933. United
States Department of Agriculture.

Land Utilization in Great Britain

love to have a garden and that they desire the
privacy which is secured by having it enclosed
with a hedge or fence. Practically all of the hous-
ing developments in England since the war have
provided for an individual garden with each home.
The love for privacy in Great Britain is in con-
trast to the tendency in a number of recent de-
velopments in this country to eliminate fences and
hedges and to provide common open space be-
tween the houses.

A number of differences in the ownership and
use of land as between this country and Britain
were pointed out. So many towns in England
have common open spaces which, although pri-
vately owned, cannot be fenced nor can the public
be kept out of them. Under the laws governing
the use of these open spaces, many of which date
back for centuries, no building can be erected in
these areas. Essential service buildings, however,
are set up along the highways serving them. The
ownership of so much of the open space in Eng-
land is uncertain that when the maps were pub-
lished by the Land Utilization Survey it was
found impossible to designate public Open spaces
because of the uncertainty as to ownership and
the liability of law suits resulting from the publi-
cation of the maps. ‘

One of the subjects of special interest to Dr.
Stamp was the various methods whereby Ameri—
can communities acquire land for park purposes.
He indicated that there are practically no pub-

, licly owned large parks in England, although there

is beginning to be an interest in acquiring them. ‘
He mentioned; for example, that a large section
in North Wales is now being considered for ac-
quisition and deveIOpment as a public domain,
primarily for out-of—door recreational use. The
plan contemplates the building of motor highways
from Liverpool and other
large cities in order that large
numbers of people may have
ready access to the area.
The value of land-use
maps in guiding the acquisi—
tion of land for park and
recreation purposes was em—
phasized by Dr. Stamp. He
illustrated this fact by exam-

(Continued on page 486)
469

You Asked for It!

Question: Our group of young people wants to
hold a treasure hunt. Will you send me some sug-
gestions to help us in planning it?

Answer: You did not mention in your letter
whether you wanted suggestions for an indoor or
an outdoor treasure hunt. Such events are gen-
erally conducted out of doors for there they are
more exciting. They may, however, be held in—
doors. ‘

Whatever the nature of the treasure hunt, there
are certain considerations which must be kept in

mind. We suggest a few of them.

Hints to the Treasure Hunt Leader

Plan your hunt to fit the group. If the group
cannot run or exert much physical energy because
of space or age, plan a hunt depending more on
wits than brawn.

Do not include allusions or material with which
the majority of the group are not familiar.

If a hunt is laid up hill, someone may have
trouble since hunters will run and may strain
themselves. Lay it on the level or down hill.

If the prize is very valuable, the losers may feel
unhappy. Use inexpensive prizes and have some-
thing for everyone (candy or .fruit), especially
when children are the treasure seekers.

If the treasure is concealed near 'the start of
the hunt, hunters feel let down and disappointed
because of the long way they have come.

Be sure all the clues were read, especially by
the winners. (See page 486 for methods of
checking.)

Go along to interpret clues. What may seem
clear to you may stump the group. Help as a last
resort.

Near the middle of the hunt use some harder
clues to slow the group down so stragglers may
catch up and not be so far behind at “the kill.”

Read the-first clue so all may start at once and
not be crowded out by a large group trying to
read the clue at once.

When only one copy of a clue is used, hunters
must put the clue back exactly where they
found it.

The Basic Formula

There is a basic formula for laying a treasure
hunt which can be used no matter what novel

470

ideas you may introduce, and that is to lay your
trail backward, thereby saving yourself much
energy and time. Go to the place where you plan
to hide the treasure, pick out the spot and write
a clue to place very near by giving directions for
finding the treasure. Suppose that this is Clue 10.
Now walk to a likely spot and write Clue 9 telling
how to get to Clue 10. It will be easy to do for
you have just been over the territory the hunters
will cover. Find another spot for Clue 8, writing
on it directions for finding Clue 9, and proceed-
ing in this fashion, and gradually moving to the
spot where you plan to ‘start with Clue I.

Clues -
The age and background of your hunters will
determine what kind of clues to use. The younger
the group the more simple they must be. Here

are a few suggestions for various types.
Simple Directions. “Look at the mail box at the

corner.” “Walk three blocks east, look on door-

step of the school.”
Simple Rhymes., Nobody will stop long enough
to criticize your “poetry.” (This one is for a

Pirate Treasure Hunt at the beach.)

“If you would unbury the pieces of eight,

Heave away due east lest you 'be too late,

And look under a plank on the pier’s starboard side
Where the water never comes, even at high tide.”

Riddles in Rhyme. You can make these up.

“Backward, turn backward, 0 time in your Hight,
Backward, read backward, 0 ye of keen. sight,
What fish do you eat, what fish do you pass,
Haddock, cod, pike or P.L.P. 'bass ?” (Kip Dock)

( . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..)

“What makes a blanket snug and warm?

Who on earth wins development’s race?

What do you walk on, what doyou ride on,

Over what do you get to a place P” (Woolman Road)

Cryptograms and crossword puzzles may also
be used, and "Indian signs made of rocks and twigs.
False Clues. Only the true clues lead to the
treasure. In this type of .clue do not have the
false lead take the hunter far from the true clue
or else he will drop too far behind. False clues

- should be used sparingly unless the entire hunt is

based on factual knowledge of this kind. Here

is an example:
“If Oxford is in France go to 46 Baker Street
and look at the lamp post; if it is in England go
to 45 Clark Street and look at the elm tree.”

(Continued on page 486)

 

Courtesy League of Wisconsin M um'cipalih'e:

THE village of Eleva,

A VII 0 H 11 d . .
1 abe a an \Visconsm, according

Community Building

has completed a vil-
lage hall and community building which is located
in the center of a three acre landscaped area. It
houses the village board rooms, the library, and a
hall to be used for community gatherings, dances,
basketball and other indoor sports. The building,
36’ by 74’ in size, was constructed as a \VPA
project, the rock used in the building being quar-
ried by WPA labor and the logs secured from the
woods in the same manner. The total cost was
$20,000, of which the .village contributedb$4.000.
Benches and tables and a stone fireplace for cook—
ing have been provided in the landscaped area for
picnics.

ONE plus one equals
tennis. At least this is
the conclusion the De-
troit News reached
after sponsoring another novice tennis tourna-
ment in August. Tennis is now more than a sport:
it has become a fashion, a nice one though, and
different from other fashions in that it is definitely
doomed to remain “in” as long as there are two
people, two rackets, and a ball that bounces’. For
everybody from the cradle to the grave gets a
thrill out of “swinging it.” A state-wide event, the’
Sixth Annual Novice Tennis Tournament, spon—
sored each year by the Detroit News, attracted
more than seven thousand citizens to participate in
the contests at the various centers provided
throughout Michigan. Hundreds of entry appli-
cations had to be turned down long before the
final date of registration. Old and Young alike
came to try their luck for the medals and trophies
awarded in the state finals. Many were juveniles,
engaging in their first competitions; others were
gray-haired veterans. At many centers it became

Tennis for Every-
body

 

to The [Municipalityh

WORLD AT PLAY

a family affair—father and son, or mother
and daughter played against each other.
Numerous brother and sister combinations, as
well as cousin teams, added excitement to the
matches, and not too infrequently there ap-
peared the last word in tennis—a team of
doubles all in one family.

APPROXIMATELY
300,000 persons at-
tended the presenta-
tion of “The Western
Gateway,” historical pageant depicting the growth
of the county from earliest times down to the
present, held nightly from September 16 to 20 at
South Park Stadium as a feature of the Allegheny
County Sesquicentennial celebration. The outdoor
dramatic spectacle was produced through co—
operation of the Allegheny County Commission-
ers and the National Youth and Works Progress
Administrations. Entirely a local production, the
various staffs and entire case were composed of
county residents.

Pittsburgh Presents
Historical Pageant

THE second annual
round-up of the day
camps conducted in
various social agencies

by recreation workers of WPA was held this year
on August 3Ist on the grounds of the Hebrew

Orphan Asylum. The celebration began with a
tour of the day camp operated at the Hebrew
Orphan Asylum during the summer. The visiting
camps were then assigned to special sites for the
remainder of the day. Lunch was prepared over
fires laid at each visiting camp site. This was fol-
lowed by a program in which every grOUP took
part. There were contests in wood chopping, fire
building, spike driving, and leap frog, and demon-
strations in ropincr, knot tying, and other activi-
ties of this type. Turtle races, a tug—of-war, a
plank race, and pail—running races added excite-
ment to the program. These activities were fol-
lowed by story telling, dramatic skits, folk danc-
ing, and group singing. There were 23,245 boys
and girls between the ages of 8 and 16 who made
up the average weekly attendance at the camps
during July and August.

A Round—up for
Day Campers

471

472 WORLD AT PLA Y

 

This Way to the County F air!-—-The chil-
dren of the Irene Kaufmann Settlement in Pitts-
burgh had their field. day on Thursday, August
25 when they successfully manipulated a Kiddies
County Fair, officially opened by the mayor of the
city, and including all,the thrills and surprises of
a real county fair. Games and contests continued
throughout the afternoon. The main attraction,
however, was the “Better Neighborhood Contest”
in which prizes were awarded to children who had
made the best gardens in the Hill District of
Pittsburgh, where there is very little or no garden
space and soil. The ceremonies climaxed fifteen
years of effort to encourage the children of Pitts-
burgh's dirty Hill District to beautify their homes.
Other features of the celebration included various
displays and exhibits, novelty relays, crazy con-
tests, side-shows, amusement booths, and a con-
cert, a carnival and a roof dance. There were also
special activities and events for adults. .

Programs for the “Fair” were printed on pink
paper. “Play money,” which was needed as part
of the admission to all events specified, was given

free with every bottle of sweet milk or chocolate
milk sold at the “Milk Well.”

An Alumni Chorus—One of the newest of
the musical groups sponsored by the Recreation
Commission of Long Beach, California is the
Alumni Chorus composed of young people who
have completed high school and are under twenty-
five years of age. One of the purposes of this
organization is to provide a means for boys and

girls who have participated in musical activities
during their school years to carry on their interest
in music and continue to develop their talent.

Something New in Model Making—School
children in Fairfield County, Connecticut are be-
ing taught something unique in model making.
Their subjects include traffic intersections, parks,
playgrounds and athletic fields, and the results of
their first year’s efforts was an exhibition at the
annual field day of the Fairfield County Planning
Association held in July, where prizes were
awarded to the pupils whose presentation and de-
signs of the models were outstanding. The County
Planning Association has also initiated a program
of lectures in the public schools throughout the
county, giving instructions in model making.
These lectures portray with the use of slides,
good and bad roadside conditions, good landscap-
ing and design for parks, playgrounds, triangles,
etc., and are supplemented by sample cardboard
models which demonstrate the simplicity of their
construction. '

Street Playgrounds in Great Britainu—T he
British parliament has passed a measure enabling
selected roads to be used as playgrounds for chil-
dren. The council of any county, borough, or
urban district may make an order prohibiting or
restricting the use of any specified road by vehi-
cles on particular days or during particular hours.
The National Playing Fields Association points
out that no street can be regarded as a satisfactory
substitute for a properly equipped and adequately
managed playground. “It is therefore hoped,”
says the association in the July issue of its journal,
“that councils will not regard the right to close
streets as an excuse for not providing such
grounds.”

For the Children in Institutions—The chil—
dren at Sayre and Eckhart Parks in Chicago,- Illi-
nois, have presented to the younger children in the
Shriners’ Hospital for Crippled Children and St.
Mary’s Home for Children the toy grocery stores
which they made in their art crafts clubs. The
stores were quite realistic and gay with shelves of
canned goods, their contents identified with pic-
tures painted in color, boxes of brown sugar, rice,
cocoa and similar supplies. There were also boxes
of salt and flour. The most inviting of all were
the stands of fresh vegetables modeled in clay and

I'VORLD A T PL/I Y 473

then enameled. Increasingly children attending
playgrounds through channels such as this are
sharing their play with less fortunate comrades.

Symphonic Music Still “In”-——-Proof that the
country has not gone completely “swing” crazy is
indicated by the fact that WQXR, Long Island
City, a small radio station heard only within a
radius of seventy-live miles, is broadcasting more
quality music per hour than any other station in
the United States, and is still a moneymaking
proposition. Over three thousand requests came in
for individual compositions last month. with
Beethoven, Tchaikowsky, Wagner, Brahms, Mo—
zart and Bach leading in the order named. Sixty—
three out of seventy—four broadcasting hours
weekly are devoted to music, forty of them to
symphonic and other serious compositions, seven-
teen to light classics, six to popular tunes. Swing
bands, comedians, and amateur hours are ,taboo
on WQXR, and announcements of “selected ad-
vertisers are held to a strict standard of dignity
and terseness. And yet—the station has already
grossed some $40,000 in 1938.

Nature Corners for Playgrounds—The Jun-
ior Recreation Museum in San Francisco is ex-
tending its service by making available to all play-
grounds a portable “nature corner.” Facilities are
so designed that they may be used even in very
small spaces. Both an exhibit case which hangs
on a small Wall area and a hanging bulletin board
type of exhibit are in demand. Where space per-
mits, an easel-like stand, which supports both bul—
letin boards and exhibit cases, affords the most
comprehensive nature corner that is now avail—
able. Terrariums, aquariums and many other
forms of exhibits sent to the different playgrounds
are changed at frequent intervals. The particular
type of exhibit desired by each individual play;
ground may be requested, and where desired an
assistant at the Junior Recreation Museum may
be periodically assigned for special work on in-
dividual playgrounds.

In Scranton, Pennsylvania --- Quilting is a
popular activity in Scranton. Under the auspices
of the Bureau of Recreation eleven quilting clubs
with approximately eight members each are in
Operation. There are two drama clubs—senior and
junior—which conduct a one act city-wide play
contest in the winter and a similar tournament in
the summer on the playgrounds. The clubs have
a play loan library and an equipment loan service.

   

{JEEABN-TO-PLAY

     

. ’ As shown at the National Recreation
// ' " Congress in Pittsburgh

     

(Thane [A no tinen

GAME RECREATION
AMUSEMENT EXERCISE
PASTIME or SPORT

       

     
 

      

,. """"""" w
t , / For Recreation Kg)
ID It. A ‘9’ I

   

HOOP-X

" Your Body Builder”
Trade-Mark and Copyright 1938

O The new sensational game that is being
adopted rapidly for physical education and
direction by recreation centers. country clubsI
parks. gymnasiums. playgroundsI schools.
colleges. athletic and sport organizations.

FOR OUTDOOR AND INTRAMURAL ACTIVITIES -

Order samples from

HOOP-X COMPANY

MUSKEGON HEIGHTS . . MICHIGAN

or your Local Sporting Goods Dealer
We make HOOP-X equipment for all ages

Kiddie HOOP-X up to 10 years. retail price ............ ..$ .50
Junior HOOP-X between 10-14 years. retail price .... ..$1.00
Intramural HOOP-X for adults. retail price .............. ..$2.00
Regulation HOOP-X. retail price .....  ......................... ..$3.00
De Luxe HOOP-X. retail price ...................................... "$4.00

 
       
   
         
       
    
   
      
   
   
      
    

Intramural HOOP-X being played in the Vanderlaan
High School. Muskegon. Michigan A

LEARN-TO-PLAY

    

474 WORLD AT PLAY

Minimum Space Required, 32 inches by 20 feet

MODERN SHUFFLE BOARD GAME SETy:
/ /

in community welfare societies. Athletic directors
at the college serve on the boards of such associa—‘
tions as the Canadian Physical Education Associa-

   
  
    

MALABLE CAST IRON - WHITE PLATED

 
 

ONE SET amp-"g? iFsaguaig gu§§)md Ont/I'll“ tion, the Interscholastic Athletic Commission, and
Pmcs il2.°° per set , Delivered 2 or 3 the Hamilton and District Basketball Association.

cunvm raomcwrs W°°den sets

POSITIVE CONTROL IN

SHOOT! N6 THE DISC .

BRASS mm; A Hayseed Party— Last winter a Hayseed

Party was scheduled at Palmer Park, Chicago,

CURVED BACK FOR
THE runposc or
PLACING THE. DISC
ON swarms LINE.

 
 
 
 

l4|7 - 80th. Ave.

     
  

PAYENtII
AMD MR“.

CHAS.H.WILSON Oakland,Colif.

 

 

Activities in Hibbing, Minnesota — There
have been approximately forty teams in hockey
leagues organized in Hibbing during the past sea-
son and sixteen teams in the national basketball
tournament. Eight schools have been used for the
indoor program, some three or four nights a week
and others two nights weekly. \Nhist and cribbage
tournaments were popular. The Minnesota Mel—
ody Band of sixty players has broadcast every
Monday evening. The total attendance at the Me-
morial Building for the year 1937 was 300,197.

Where Colleges Share with Their Communi-
ties—In reply to a request for information on
instances in which colleges share their recrea—
tional interests and activities with the communi—
ties in which they are located, from Hamilton,
Ontario, Canada, comes word that McMaster
University, located in Hamilton, sponsors a varied
program under the faculty and students. One
method of cooperation on the part of the faculty
consists in giving weekly addresses over the local
radio station on such topics as “Christmas Music
and Nativity Plays,” “Sports and Athletics in
College,” “Fine Arts” and “Political Economy.”
Weekly lectures are given to sanitarium patients,
and there are frequent addresses before clubs and
young people’s societies. The college conducts,
during fall and winter, the Workers’ Education
Association class at the Collegiate Institute, and
college officials serve as Sunday School workers
and community leaders in church ad social service
agencies. The college also provides service to the
Athletic Club, Aquatic Club and the Hospital
Board. The students represent the university at
various clubs in the city and serve as student aids
in much the same capacity as do faculty members

Illinois, and the old-time dancing group had an
old-fashioned party with all the trimmings. As a
preparatory step the group appointed a music
committee whose responsibility it was to iind
music for the old-time dances, evaluate it as to its
suitability, and find people who liked to play it.

Activities in Yonkers, New York—Nearly
every school building in Yonkers—twenty-three
grammar schools and five high schools—were
used as community centers five days a week from
3:00 to 5:00 P. M. and from 7:00 to 10:30 P. M.
from November Ist to March 3Ist. The after-
noon programs for children consisted of games
such as basketball, touch football, newcomb and
volley ball, tap dancing, sewing, paper craft and
manual training. The evening programs have been
most popular, and the “lighted schoolhouse” has
become an actual fact in Yonkers. No longer are
the gymnasiums the only portion of the school
equipment used. There have been concerts, fo-
rums and dramatic presentations in the audi-
torium, while the gymnasiums have hummed with
activities such as basketball, badminton, social
dancing, volley ball, and game nights. The class-
rooms were utilized for club activities and'classes
of various kinds, while the corridors were pressed
into service for shuffleboard and ping-pong.

Oklahoma City’s Recreation Festival — A
representative committee of the Association of
Commerce of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, each
year cooperates with the Park Department and the
schools in putting on what is known as the Recre-
ation Festival. Many special events are run off
with the purpose of making the public aware of
the opportunities offered in the city for whole-
some recreation. .In addition to newspaper pub-
licity, a mimeographed bulletin is sent into homes
of the city through the school children during the
last week of the school year. The festival pro-
gram includes the following activities:

Amateur photOgraphy; Archery; Baseball;
Bicycle races; Bowling; Boxing; Carnegie Li—
brary; Checkers; Croquet; Drama; Golfing;

P
i
e
I
a
3
I
t
r
r
I
r
I
I
r
r
r
o
l

Full YIJUR RECREA'I‘MNAL LIBRARY

Primitive and Pioneer Sports
By BERNARD S. MASON

Here' is a collection of picturesque outdoor sports that will
appeal strongly to every camper. The Sports described can be
used to great advantage in camp programs. They are indi-
VIdualized activities and as such appeal to the imagination.
It is the first book giving such complete information and it
should be in every camp library for constant reference. It
covers the following sports: Boomerangs, Cross-stick Boom-
erangs, Pin-W'heel Boomerangs, Boomabirds, Tumblesticks,
Australian Boomerangs, Cardboard Boomerangs, Ropes and
Roping, Rope Spinning, Trick Knots, Lariat Throwing, Rop-
ing Exhibitions, Whip Cracking, Spinning, The Serpentine,
Tomahawk Throwing, Log Rolling, Blowguns, Darts.

8vo. Cloth, Fully Illustrated $2.50

Social Games for Recreation
By BERNARD S. MASON and 'E. D. MITCHELL

This comprehensive volume has now become the standard
reference work for leaders and play directors. Containing over
1200 games and activities for all kinds of social recreation,
classified according to age levels, when and where to use the
various selections, it is without question the most practical
book of its kind. The Contents: Social Mixers, Social Danc-
ing Aids, Party Games, Mystery Games, Dramatic Party
Games, Social Relays and Group Contests, Dual Contests and
Combats, Council Ring Activities, Rotative Party Games,
Mental Play, Useful Teaching Games, Clubroom and Play-
room Games, Automobile Games and Contests, Picnic Activi-
ties, Stalking and Scouting Games, Joke Stunts, Forfeits.

8vo. Cloth Illustrated $2.50

\

Active Games and Contests
By B. S. MASON and E. D. MITCHELL

A companion Volume to “Social Games for Recreation,”
this book offers over 1800 games and contests covering the
field of actiVe play. Each game and activity is classified so
that the leader will have no difficulty in selecting material
to fit any occasion. Practically all games and activities of an
active nature are included, and the material is grouped under
the following headings: Contests between Individuals, Con-
tests between Groups, Goal, Tag and Combat Games, Team
Games, lVater, Winter and Mounted Activities.

8vo. Cloth Illustrated $3.00

The Game Way to Sports
By H. A'rwoon REYNOLDS

This valuable book enables the director to teach the funda-
mentals of our popular sports by the playing of games. Each
game is described under: Number of players, Field, F_orma-
tion and Description. Where the time element and Size of
playing fields are factors, the instructor will find many games
which will fit into the Situation at hand. The sports covered
are: Baseball, Football, Basketball, Swimming, Soccer, Volley

Ball, Tennis and Field Hockey. '
8vo. Cloth Illustrated $2.00

.0.-

a,,_:
Drums. Tom-Toms and Rattles

By BERNARD S. MASON

Editor of The Camping Magazine, Author of “Primitive
and Pioneer Sports,” Etc.

Drums since time began have recorded the joy and sorrow
of peoples. They have carried messages afar. They haVe ex-
pressed the music and rhythm of life, itself, and they have
been universally used by all. In this new and appealing book,
the talented author describes not only the history and use of
drums, tom-toms and rattles, but more important he tells how
to make them. The text is superbly illustrated with lime draw-
ings illustrating the designs, the technique of making the
drums, and the assembly of the completed drums.

This book will be particularly valuable in camps and recre-
ation centerS' not only as activity material but also for library
use. Dancing teachers will find the description of percussion
instruments of particular interest. Recreational grou s of
every kind will find much that appeals to the interest 0 both
children and adults. Libraries should have it for constant
reference. The Contents: Drums the World Around, The
Craft of Drum Making, Indian Hand-DruMs, Large Dance
Drums, Drums of the Log or Barrel Type, Water-Drums,
Drumsticks, Using the Primitive Drum, Dance Rattles and
Other Sound Makers. Bibliography, Index.

Large 8vo. Cloth, Copiously Illustrated $2.50
Fist Puppetry

By DAVID FREDERICK MILLIGAN

Fist Puppetry is entertaining and easy to learn. This com-
plete handbook tells how to make fist puppets, costumes,
scenery and the puppet theater. It explains how to adapt
plays and includes the action for ten representative produc-
tions. With this book you can organize your own theater
group and produce puppetry plays to the delight and enjoy-

ment of all concerned. .
The Contents: Logical Places for Puppets, The Fist Puppet

and How It Is Operated, Selecting and Adapting a Play for
Puppets, .Making the Head, The Costume, The Puppet Booth,
The Production of a Puppet Show, Ten Puppet Plays Bibli-

ography, Index.
12mO Cloth Illustrated $1.50

Songs and Pictures for Little Folks

Words and Music by HELEN C. KNOWLES
Photographs by RUTII ALEXANDER NICHOLS

"Songs and Pictures for Little Follzs” is a book that can
be used by parents, teachers and the little folks themselves.
The material contained in the book is the result of the

author’s experience with young children. '
Children like to “do things"—the things that thESc little

folks are doing. _ '
Children like to look at pictures—especially of other little
people like themselves. The photographs taken by Ruth
Alexander Nichols seem to have caught the delightful beauty
of childhood, its refreshing naturalness and exqursrte charm.
They are especially appealing to little ones—and grown ups
tool _
Children like to sing—and these little songs, we hope, Will
find a. place in the library of both home and school.
.. Because the music is not difticult, some-children may be
interested in learning to play the accompaniments for others

or for their own enjoyment.

Quarto Cloth Music Illustrated $1.50

Send for our New, Complete, Illustrated Catalogue which
fully describes all our publications on Health, Physical
Education, Sports, Recreation, Dancing, Pageantry, Etc.

A. S.

BARNES AND CONIPANY

Publishers for One Hundred Years

67 WEST 44th STREET

 

NEW YORK

sx-ssv‘sx sxx-s-ar‘

‘
~“~¢WMMWWW““““““

475

476 WORLD AT PLAY

     
   
  
   
     
   

  

EAGLE

RINGER
(Patmted)

  
  
  
   
   
  
 

   

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

,UP-TO-DGTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND

line of horseshoes and accessories,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

' Many Styles of Horseshoes

0 Official Courts 0 Stakes

° Stake Holders 9 Carrying Cases
' Rule Books 0 Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual
(I938 Edition. Vol. VI)

$3.00 Prepaid

O 220 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested
in swimming poolsin any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
425 Fourth Avenue

Make all checlcs. money orders. etc..

payable to Earl K. Collins

 

New York. N. Y.

Horseshoes; Motorcycle exhibition; Municipal
greenhouse; Polo; Sand lot; Softball; Speed boat
races; Star gazing; Swimming; Tennis; Water
polo; W PA Municipal Art Center; Yachting;
Zoo program.

Getting Community Support — In one city a
National Recreation Association worker spent two
and a half weeks studying the local situation and
recommended an increase of the local municipal
recreation budget-from $20,000 to $60,000. Dele—
gates from various civic groups vigorously backed
up the recommendations. The delegates f mm the
Council of Social Agencies numbered seventy—live
persons! Press releases early in February report
that the City Council granted a budget of $45,350
to the Recreation Department. This gain of over
one hundred per cent is well worth the effort ex—
pended and shows very clearly the value of using
well—informed groups in the community in inter-
preting t0 the city authorities the local recreation
needs.

A Year-Round Recreation Program for Es-
canaba—Escanaba, Michigan, has recently de-
veloped a year—round program of public parks
and recreation. Bevier Butts has been employed
as full—time executive.

A Nature Leaders’iTraining Course—-The
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, in cooperation with the American
Camping Association, the Philadelphia Council,
the Boy Scouts of America, the Philadelphia Girl
Scouts, and the Playground and Recreation Asso-
ciation of Philadelphia, last spring held its first
nature leaders’ training course. In a series of
eight meetings from 7 :00 to 9:00 on Monday and
\Vednesday evenings, from April 18th to May
11th, classes and discussion groups were held
under the leadership of \V. Stephen Thomas, Di-
rector of Education. The lectures were supple-
mented by a number of field trips. Registration
for the classes was limited to adults over eighteen
years of age who had had nature lore experience
or who showed special aptitude for the work.
The following topics were 'discussed: Nature

. Study Today; the World of Plants; NatUre‘ Rec-

reation in City Parks; Treasures of the Earth;
Methods of Bird Study; Nature Crafts for ‘
Camp; the Camp Nature Museum, and Nature

Trails.

A RECREATION PILGRIMAGE 477

The Goldsboro Swimming Association —— As
the swimming pool in Goldsboro, North Carolina,
has no income other than derived from general
admissions and season tickets, it was found neces-
sary in order to carry on the activities connected
with the pool to form an association which would
help toward maintenance costs. The Goldsboro
Swimming Association was accordingly formed
with a membership of approximately sixty citi-
zens. The purpose of the association is to show
that through practice and growth in skills a .de-
sire will be created among the boys and girls of
the community to learn to swim well and to be
helpful in cases of emergencies.

A Hobby Show in Muncie—The youngest
exhibitor in the first annual hobby Show to be
held in Muncie, Indiana, was seven years old and
his exhibit was a miniature garden. The displays
ran the gamut from collections of candy wrappers
to the creative arts. There were approximately
300 exhibits on display at the field house. Two
hundred exhibitors cooperated with the Recrea—
tion Department in making this event an out-
standing one. The general classifications included
models, camera craft, creative art, home hobbies,
handcraft, antiques and historic relics, and money
collections. Practically all of the classifications
were divided into two groups, adults and juniors.

Nampa Is on Its Way!-—Nampa, Idaho,
with a population of 10,000, is making recrea-
tional history. An area opposite the high school
has been acquired on which a new sports field for
community use is being developed. A new civic
auditorium and recreation center, with a large
recreation hall, club rooms and classrooms, has
been built as a WPA project on an elementary
school area. Known as the civic auditorium, it
will be utilized by the community as a whole.

A Better Neighborhood Contest—The Irene
Kaufmann Settlemen t of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
is conducting a better neighborhood contest
among the children. An attractive certificate signed
by Sidney A. Teller, director of the Settlement,
is issued to each child taking part. It reads as
follows: “This is to certify that . . . . . . . . . . . . . . is
enrolled in the contest and promises to plant and
care for a garden and to help make our neighbor-
hood and our city clean and beautiful, and is
therefore entitled to display this certificate.”

\

A Recreation Pilgrimage

SEARCHING for new projects which might be
helpful in the development of the area around
the'city of Detroit, Michigan, Dr. Henry S. Cur-
tis, Executive Secretary of the Huron-Clinton
Parkway Committee, visited by automobile last
summer a number of park systems throughout the
country. His first stop was made in Cleveland
where in a conference with W. A. Stinchcomb,
Director of the Metropolitan Park System, Dr.
Curtis secured details regarding the law providing
for the organization of metropolitan park districts
in Ohio which was passed twenty-one years ago.
Under this law five cities—Cleveland, Cincinnati,
Akron, Toledo and Defiance—have organized
their park systems.

Dr. Curtis next visited the Niagara Frontier
Planning Board with headquarters in Buffalo and
territory ranging from Lake Erie to Lake On-
tario, and covering Erie and Niagara Counties.
While nominally a planning board, it has been en-
gaged in promoting many large projects and has
a Citizens’ Advisory Committee of 750 people
who help to advance the projects recommended

by the board.

Coming to New York City, Dr. Curtis had an
opportunity to see the developments of the Park
Department made possible through the program
instituted by Robert Moses, Park Commissioner,
through which there has been a tremendous in-
crease in the number of playgrounds, swimming
pools, beaches, park acreage, and parkways.

Boston, too, was in Dr. Curtis’ itinerary. Here
the metropolitan district includes seventeen muni-
cipalities scattered about the port of Boston. The
district has charge of police, fire, water, sewer-
age, and parks outside the limits of the city and
more and more within them.

After leaving Boston, Dr. Curtis drove to the
Palisades and the White Mountains where he was
assured by a number of officials that they had
come to feel their greatest resource was not in
their lands or forests but in their recreation. “At
Mt. Belknapp we found a county devoting itself
to the creation of winter sports. A ski jump of
I75 feet'had been created with four ski trails
down the mountain. The skiers were carried to
the top of the mountain in chairs suspended from
an endless cable. At South Conway they assured
us that their winter crowds for skiing and tobog-
ganing at week-ends were now greater than their
summer attendance.

478 WORLD AT PLAY

SO GRACIOUS IS THE TIME

ANNIE B. KERR
$1.25 '

Nine charming stories of Christmas customs of
nine nationalities represented in the United States

POLISH UKRANIAN

MEXICAN ITALIAN

FINNISH SERBIAN

CZECHOSLOVAKIAN ARMENIAN
GERMAN

3

Illustrated by Kathleen Voute

THE WOMAN S PRESS

600 LEXINGTON AVENUE NEW YORK CITY

“In New Brunswick, Canada, the province
seemed just to have awakened to the value of the
tourist and was hastening the construction of a
system of good roads which by the end of the
summer will be nearly complete. The trip up the
St. Johns River is one of the most beautiful in
America.”

In Somerville’s Community Theater—Since
February 1932, the Somerville, Massachusetts,
Community Theater sponsored by the Recreation
Commission has produced an imposing list of
plays, including “Lady Windemere’s Fan,” “The
Crisis,” “The School for Scandal,” and “Another
Language.” On April 3, 1938, “The Upper
Room” by Robert Benson was produced in col-
laboration with the Somerville High School
Alumni Glee Club and the Federal Music Proj-
ect. In addition to public presentations, the ac—
tivities of the theater include twice-a-month one—
act plays for members and guests, and twice-a-
month lectures and addresses by outstanding au-
thorities. The subscription membership at $1. 50 a
year entitles the subscriber to live reserved seat
admissions for five public productions in a season.

Kokomo, Indiana, Develops Participation in
Recreation—Interest in recreation on the part of
citizens in Kokomo, Indiana, has doubled in the
last year, according to Howard Sharp, staff writer
for the Kokomo Tribune. Summarizing the semi—
annual report made by Charles G. Abrams for the
first part of 1938, Mr. Sharp notes a 66 per cent
increase in participation over that of a year ago,
with over 110,000 spectators in attendance. The
main features of the program have been junior
league baseball, rhythm bands, craft work, an
athletic club, branch libraries, a recreation service
bureau, and community amateur nights. Especially

 

outstanding is the Braille Club designed to teach
Braille and the use of the typewriter. The rhythm
band program for the blind has also created much
interest. In its activities for the blind the Recre—
ation Department has the cooperation of the Lions

' Club. A new crafts shop has made possible the

establishment of craft classes at Bible schools in
several churches. A great deal of equipment and
furniture used in the recreation center is made in
the shop.

In cooperation with the public schools and the
public library, three branch libraries are being
conducted.

Children Tell Inner Thoughts with Paint—
One of the most interesting of recent “psychologi-
cal” experiments on children has been performed
by Ernest Harms with the permission of the
loard of Education of New York City, not by
subjecting the child to aptitude, intelligence, or
reading tests, but by using art as a medium to ex—
plore the child's world of feeling and imagination.
Two hundred boys and girls between the ages of
fourteen and fifteen in the high school art classes
of the city were asked to convey an idea, prefer-
ably an abstract idea, in form and color. In the
“mental pictures” thus produced the whole inner
world of the infantile mind spoke directly as it
never could do in words. Conditions of home
life and physical and social handicaps were re-
flected, as well as humor and fancy. Such experi-
ments, Mr. Harms believes, are an important con—
tribution to the discovery of artistic impulses and
emotional releases which may prove of great
value in the child’s adjustment to life.

Santa Claus and His Fairyland on Parade
3 (Continued on page 437) ‘

interesting to them. Because of this decision we
have been obliged regretfully to refuse many re-
quests frpm surrounding cities who would like to
borrow or rent some of our units.

Since the first parade was held we have received
many delegations from cities in this territory in—
cluding Springfield, Centralia and Harrisburg,
Illinois, Louisville, Kentucky, and Indianapolis,
Terre Haute and South Bend, Indiana. These
representatives have wanted to know just how to
go about the organization of such a parade. We
are glad to_ give them all the help possible, re—
membering the assistance which we received from

Lincoln, Nebraska.

THE P] TTSB U R G H RECREATION CONGRESS 479

YOU CAN OWN A

New ROYAL

PORTABLE

Yes, you can actually own a New Royal Porta-
hle with Touch Control for as little as $1 a
week. (De Luxe model illustrated.) Try the
New Royal. See how the whole family takes
to it. Then own it on your own terms—cash
or ONLY A FEW CENTS A DAY, with initial
down payment. See your Royal Portable dealer
or mail coupon today for information.

    

ROYAL TYPEWRITER COMPANY, Inc.

Dept. RNR 1138

2 PARK AVENUE. NEW YORK. N. Y.

 

The Pittsburgh Recreation Congress
(Continued from page 438)

future growth is dependent upon the degree to
which they are enlisted. Coupled with this was
the thoughtful and careful way in which the So—
ciety of Recreation \Vorkers of America the
organization of professional recreation leaders-—
was launched, and the genuine pride and sense of
responsibility that leaders evidenced in thinking of
the growing profession of recreation leadership.
The minimum feeling of institutionalism and the
constant emphasis upon cooperation was most
commendable. The joint emphasis both of public
officials and recreation workers Upon high stand—
ards of leadership for all phases of recreation
work ran through discussions. meetings and
conferences.

In a statement as brief as this, it is possible to
give little more than a partial impression of the
rich experience of those who came together for a
week of study, inspiration and fellowship. that
they might better serve a movement which has so
important a part to play in the life of Our Ameri-
can democracy.

 

Promoting Thanksgiving Sociability
(Continued from page 441)
3. Solo. Cloud Song. Hopi Indian Harvest Song
(Folk Songs of the Four Seasons.
Schirmer, lnc., N. Y. $1.75)

4. Puritan Blue Laws—a humorous pantomime
(1’.R..~\. bulletin.)

. l’oem. Recitation. Thanksgiving Day by Robert
Bridges. (Our Holidays in Poetry, compiled
by Harrington & Thomas. H. W. \Vilson C0.
Also in Thanksgiving Entertainments. A.
Flanagan & Co._ Price 40 cents)

Ul

6. Indian Corn Dance. By six persons in Indian
costume. (Directions given in American Indian
and Other Folk Songs, Mary Severance Shaf-
ter. A. S. Barnes & Co. $3.00)

Hidden Turkeys. (me out of every ten or twelve
guests is given a small candy turkey wrapped in
tissue paper as guests arrive. Guests are to con-
ceal them and let no one know they have them.
\Vhen time for this game. announce that certain
other guests hold magnificent prizes and that the
ninth person to shake hands with each of these

480 THANKSGIVING IN HAWAII

 

 

Order Your Copy of
Congress Proceedings

0 The Proceedings of the Twenty-
Third National Recreation Con-
gress held at Pittsburgh October
3-7, 1938 will be ready for dis-

tribution early in November.

In the volume, now on the
press, appear the reports of the
addresses at general meetings,
the summaries of the many dis-
cussion groups, and other im-
portant data.

You will want this book for
your recreation library.

. . . Price $1.00

National Recreation Association
New York City

315 Fourth Avenue

 

unknown persons is to get a prize; that these prize
holders are to secretly count the people shaking
hands with them and when the ninth person
shakes hands with them just make a mental note
of it. After three minutes of violent hand-shak-
ing, the prize holders are asked to come out front
and announce their “ninth hand-shakers.” The
magnificent prizes are then awarded. Names
should be exchanged while people are shaking
hands. From Edna Geister’s The Fun B 00k (via
Thanksgiving Party Suggestions, Recreation Di-
vision, Chicago Park District, Washington Park)

Farmer and Turkey. Guests use the grand march
to form lines of eight. They are asked to hold the
hands across their lines, but when the whistle
blows to take a sharp quarter turn to the right
and quickly take hold of their new neighbors’
hands. Every time a whistle blows they are to do
this, always turning to the right hand and always
taking their new neighbors’ hands immediately. A
farmer and a turkey are chosen, and it is, of
course, business of the farmer to chase the turkey.
The turkey is given a bit of a head start and
then the farmer is after him, running up and
down the constantly changing streets and alleys
formed by the constantly turning lines.

(From Thanksgiving Party suggestions, Rec-—
reation Division, Chicago Park District, Washing-
ton Park. Adapted from Streets and Alleys, C0-
operative Recreation Service.)

Pop Goes the Weasel. Folk Dance. Music and
directions in American Country Dances, Vol. I, by
Elizabeth Burchenal, Schirmer, Inc., New York.

Refreshment Suggestions: Cider or hot coffee
and doughnuts. '

A Blue Laws Pantomime

In addition to the Blue Laws Party, there may
be secured from the National Recreation Associa—
tion a bulletin outlining an amusing Blue Laws
Pantomime. There is no charge for this bulletin.

Thanksgiving in Hawaii
(Continued from page 444)

boys in early days.) And girls in tapas? (Tapa
cloth woven from bark and designed with moon,
stars, harvest.) These children are the old Ha-
waiians, walking in slow procession to the throne
of the Queen and offering her their harvest of
pineapples, cocoanuts, guavas, sugar cane, coffee,
mango, taro, paipai, bananas and breadfruit. The
Firemen’s and Policemen’s Glee Clubs chant “Imi
Au Ia Oe” (I Am Searching for Thee).

Now the Queen is standing on her throne. As
the boys and girls deposit the fruits and vegetables
at the Queen’s feet, their tiner shaped, strong
bodies glisten in the bright lights. They bow low,
move slowly backward and form a large semi-
circle around the throne. The chants, the rhythm,
the color, the children; it is like a beautiful dream.
The central theme of the program is expressed in
music and dancing at the Queen’s court, just as
the old Hawaiians might have done years ago.

All is quiet again. You look at your program to
see what is coming next. Oh, yes—English folk
dances for the pleasure of the Queen, for the joy
of the harvest, for the love of the dance. Here
come dozens of children—Chinese, Japanese, Ha-
waiians and all the rest—tripping along to the fast
tempo of the music. Now it is “Sweet Kate,” then
“Gathering Peascods.” ' Another group dances
“Rufty Tufty” and still another “Jenny Pluck
Pears.” The older girls present “Black Nag,”
“Sellengers Round,” “Parson’s Farewell,” “Grim-
stock,” “Ribbon Dance,” and many others. The
children “set” and “turn single” and “glide” until
at the end they bow and skip away.

The “Malahini,” (new arrival on these islands
from other parts) seeing Hawaiians, Filipinos,

THANKSGIVING IN HAWAII 481

Chinese, Japanese and the rest of the melting pot,
dance the English folk dance, is very much
amused. But these children from the playgrounds
are part of the great crucible of the races, and
eventually will be the citizens of this country.
They are learning to adjust themselves every day.
Just as they catch the spirit of play, so do they
catch the swing of the English folk dance.

Then come the national folk dances—Japanese
fan and parasol dances; Korean, Filipino, Span—
ish, Chinese and Hawaiian dances—all danced by
children of these races. Gorgeous colors and cos—
tumes—like a huge tapestry.

Perhaps the large Hawaiian next to you is
clapping his hands and giving a few war whoops
of hearty approval as the hula girls wiggle off the
stage. More applause. The hula is repeated.

The concert part of the program is an enter—
tainment in itself with its “Song of the Islands,”
“Beautiful Ilima” and other songs about our hills
and waters and flowers.

Finally, an American flag is lowered from the
apertUre in the roof while the band plays “Hawaii
Ponoi” and the “Star—Spangled Banner.” Until
then you had almost forgotten you were still in
the United States.

You want more. You clap and clap, but the
twelve hundred children who have performed
must go home—it is past their bedtime and our
Japanese and Chinese and Hawaiian parents are

very particular about their children retiring on
time.

You leave City Hall with the four thousand
other people, hearing one of the city officials say-
ing: “That was fine, Recreation Department. Let
us have more of these festivals.”

And everyone has had a good time.

What They Say—About Recreation

(Continued from page 452) '

its potentialities. The sudden emergency of uni-
versal leisure found Us ill prepared to use it well.
In a world preoccupied with the necessity for ma-
terial advancement, recreation was relatively un-
important. It was either the means for relaxation
from arduous work or the frivolous play of the
idle class immune from work. Now it is coming
.to have a new and dynamic meaning. It may be
made the source of cultural salvation and regen-
eration. It is the activity of life in Which people
may live creatively.”-—George Hjelte.

  
 

  

Thousands of Teachers
Are Turning to

Junior Arts and Activities

EVERY subscriber is back of the

Junior Arts and Activities organiza-

     
        

tion, helping to build a monthly magazine

 
 

that actually supplies the daily helps the

 
 

teacher needs to help her go forward in

 
 

her work.

 
     
 

Every new subscriber added to our lists
helps us build a better magazine for you.

 
 

Each month Junior Arts and Activities

 
 

brings you creative activity projects——

 
 

source material and ideas for everyday

 
 

classroom use. There are many full-

 
 

page illustrations—editorials and sug-

      
  

gestions.

D

 
 

Every teacher will find Junior Arts and
Activities extremely helpful and very

 
 

nominally priced.

  
   

  

1 year. 10 issues. $2.00
2 years 3.00
4.00 "

 
 

3 years

   
 

0 Send in your order today. If
the first issue does not meet

 
    

with your approval you may
cancel your subscription.

V

     
  

  

Junior Arts & Activities

740 RUSH STREET
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS-

    
 

482 CALENDAR FOR PUBLIC RECREATION ADMINISTRATION

Drama—A Community Responsibility
(Continued from page 456)

the major productions. An agreement was made
whereby a dramatic director was engaged by the
School Board to teach part time in the English
Department and to direct plays for the little thea-
ter. The major portion of his salary was to be
paid by the Board of Education and‘ the balance
from the funds of the drama group. The Board
of Education gave the use of rooms for rehears*
als, tryouts, building of scenery and storing of
costumes. The school auditoriums were available
at no cost to the Recreation Department for lec-
tures, monthly theater night programs, workshop
nights, and for staging major productions.

In drama we have a hobby that offers many de-
lightful hours of diversion and one that we as
recreation leaders should support with all our re-
sources. If we plan the program carefully, study
our community needs and secure the cooperation
of those interested in the development of the ama—
teur theater, we shall be able to carry out a pro-
gram of drama that will give all our citizens an
opportunity to take part in this splendid activity.

How Many Are Served?

( C ontinned from page 458)

lined attitude, evolved over years of promotion,
which makes the public think of parks not as a
decoration, but rather as a utility in the city’s life.
People have not the slightest hesitation in wander-
ing freely off the formal walks and paths onto
the grass, and this sense of utter freedom to do
whatever one chooses to do, has made citizens feel
possessively that the parks of the city are their
own front yards, where they have every right to
legitimate enjoyment of them. The throngs fre-
quenting them are not bench warmers, and from
observation in other cities I am personally con-
vinced that in no place which I have seen do so
many of the people of the city actually live the
outdoor part of their lives in the city parks as is
the case here in Chicago.

Home Recreation
(Continued from page 461)

One final point should be emphasized. Children
are natural. doers. They seldom gain pleasure or
knowledge from watching others work or play.
In other words, they do not have the spectator
habit which is so widespread among adults today.
It is the hope of those interested in the recreation

movement that the home life may be able to help
other agencies nourish and perpetuate this habit
of doing, so that the future use of leisure time
will be more constructive, more creative and more
satisfying to our children than it has been to us.

I

Calendar for Public Recreation

Administration
(Continued from page 462)
Prepare fees and charges list and collect any
necessary entrance fees for the fall season.
Prepare material and make arrangements for

community center leaders institute. ***
Publish fall directory. **

Administrative Tasks During Fall Season '

Write “thank you” letters for the summer
season.

Have summer workers’ personnel records
brought up to date. 

Secure financial reports from clubs (parent rec-
reation clubs and others) at end of outdoor season.

Prepare list of suggested changes and improve—
ments to areas and refer to the proper authorities.

Interview applicants and select workers for the
fall and winter positions.

Hold community center workers institute. ***

Prepare winter program.

Prepare fees and charges list and collect any
necessary entrance fees for the winter season.

Check buildings and equipment for the indoor
season.

Make arrangements and prepare material for
the winter volunteers’ institute.

Make fall season awards.

Publish winter directory. **

Activities Occurring Periodically Through-
out the Year

Meetings: Recreation Board (or other manag:
ing authority)

Committees

Staff .

Other departments, agencies and organizations.
' Daily, weekly and monthly reports from staff
workers. 

Banking. v I ,l H

Publicity campaign (news. releases, repbrts):

Mailing of reports, bulletins and reports'to Na-
tional Recreation Association. I

énalyis‘is of community needs. ' m I . ‘
i Research‘problpms; (program effectiveness, Etc.)
"Library"   .     i '

i  for letting of contractsi

4,.

Specifications

GRAHAM TAYLOR

Graham Taylor
May 2. |85l—September 26. I938

GRAHAM TAYLOR was interested in the national
recreation movement from the very beginning.
His own thinking and his own spirit fitted in so
well with the recreation movement. Life to him
was a joyous thing. All his experiences brought
interest and excitement. One felt he was ever
learning and that he derived great personal satis—
faction in giving freely of his own life to all those
about him. He tried in every way he could to
further the national recreation movement. He
believed greatly in education toward more
dynamic citizenship and never lost his faith in

humanity.

Insurance renewals.‘
Handling complaints.

Non—Recurring Activities
National Recreation Congress.
District Recreation Conferences.
M iscellaneous conferences (local, state, national) .
Assistance on special drives (within and with-
out department). '

More Parks for the People
(Continued from page 464)

of life-savers, bathhouse attendants and the chlo-
rination of water. have been subjected to a sys-
tem of charges. A concession which sells only
packaged candy, ice cream and soft drinks is
operated by the Park Board. In addition. wood
and charcoal are sold since all of the picnic units
are provided with individual picnic stoves planned
in such a way as to avoid disfiguring the area.
The practice of providing one of these stoves with
a combination table and bench seating eight people
has resulted in the acceptance of the idea that an
outdoor picnic, involves the preparation of at least
a portion of,_the food which is consumed.

Little supervision of the activities of the people
using the park is exercised. It is the intention of
the Park Board to engage a naturalist who will
make his headquarters in the park.

One of the interesting things about the system
is that it has been developed in the last ten years
almost wholly on the basis of a levy of one-tenth
mill on the, dollar. This -is the maximum amount
that can be voted by the people at any time. This
levy was renewed on November and, more people
voting on, the .park issue and a greater majority
having been giVen than in the— case of any other
issue or candidate on the ballot.

Special Announcement
To Leaders Engaged

In Group Work

The magazine, CHARACTER AND CITIZEN-
SHIP, announces a special elub subscription
offer to leaders engaged in group work. For
the sum of $10.00, eight copies of the maga-
zine will be mailed to a group for an entire
year. Groups ,whieh desire more than eight
copies per month may secure as many addi-
tional subscriptions as they desire at the rate
of $1.25 each. The price of a single subscrip-
tion is $2.00 per year.

CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP is now the
OHicial organ of the National Council on
Education for Character and Citizenship, a
non-profit group directed by a board of na-
tionally-know educators and laymen. The
magazine has been enlarged to sixty-eight
pages per issue and has been greatly im-
proved in style and content.

During the current year, CHARACTER AND
CITIZENSHIP will emphasize the following
topics as they relate particularly to the dif-
ferent aspects of character and citizenship
education; the dilemma of youth, community
activities, the challenge of democracy, con-
servation of natural resources, the church in
the community, consumer problems, activities
of young people, democracy in school life,
adult education, current movements relating
to character and citizenship education, co-
operation of community agencies, all from the
point of view of character qualities and vital
citizenship.

A sample copy will be sent on request.

vvv

Send your orders to:

The
National Council on Education
For Character and Citizenship

5732 Harper Avenue, Chicago, Illinois

483

484 PROFESSIONAL READING AND ITS VALUES

CHRISTMAS SEALS

‘enLTH
Ree-runes

 

Help to Protect Your.
Home from Tuberculosis

 

 

Professional Reading and Its Values
(Continued from page 466)

“to learn to use to the best advantage the splendid
possessions of valuable stories, and to learn new
and worthwhile methods for their telling to the
children in our care.”

Reading on the subject has resulted in a num-
ber of conclusions:

There should be tests for selecting stories to tell
which must consider the psychological advisability
of the story for the age group concerned. Has it
good literary form? Is it worth telling?

The purpose of storytelling is not merely to en-
" tertain although it does and should do this, but in
addition to delighting young listeners it is desir-
able that the stories should contribute to the men—
tal, moral, and spiritual growth of the child.

There are periods of growth or story interests
which may be classified as rhythmic, imaginative,
heroic, and romantic.

A knowledge of the technique of storytelling
and of preparing for it is essential.

Stories can be correlated with other subjects.
They may be used to awaken an appreciation of
literature, art and music, and to illuminate such
subjects as history, geography and nature study.

Experimentation in storytelling has resulted in
the employment of many different devises in the
presentation of stories. Large, colorful pictures
are used in connection with the telling or reading,
as are story ligures and scenery cut from wood.
Various kinds of puppets are utilized for drama-

tization. Stories are sometimes told by a story-
teller in costume, and they are told in wards and
on the roof with the aid of an amplifier. Stories
may serve as a motivation for creative art and to
stimulate project activity.

As a result of these various studies new life is
instilled into the program with the children. There
are no ruts. All this work is still in process. It is
already bearing ripe fruit, but many new problems
interesting and worthy of investigation are con-
stantly presenting themselves. In our experience
this method of individual research which directs
professional reading and the results of which are
shared with the group are the most profitable.
This kind of project serves to integrate the group
and to stimulate and inspire all its members. It
is a sure means of growth, both for the individual
and for the group.

Noon Socials
( Continued from page 467)

the various games were taught. Three groups
were organized—one for the boys, one for the
girls, and a mixed group for both boys and girls.

Through the cooperation of the local museum,
which is located just a half a block from the high
school, sound moving pictures were shown on Fri—
days of each week. These were of the instruc-
tional type rather than being purely entertainment.

The teachers and merchants of the city have
fully endorsed the noon socials. They agree that
the plan provides good, wholesome recreation, and
is a factor in the molding of the characters and
personalities of many of the high school students.

A Marine Museum

( Continued from page 468)

The Cabrillo Marine Museum is very fortu-
nate in having a strong Advisory Council com-
posed of such scientists as Captain G. Allen
Hancock and prominent individuals connected
with the Los Angeles Museum of Natural
History and with the principal colleges and
universities. Twenty-three outstanding men'
and women make up the council.

Our experience has shown that a museum
may be developed with very little money if
interest and cooperation are secured. The
Playground and Recreation Department feels that
with the beginning which has been made and the
interest shown in the enterprise, a museum and
aquarium will result which will be truly repre-

(Vi/ho, CThee} .Sub/Acnibe!

School Activities |

in their school means...
(Jon the 

School and community interest—attention that is always given
to things going on.
School interpretationm demonstration of what the school is

doing, exhibition and explanation of thewbrk that justifies
the modern school.

School spirit, harmony within and among school groups, school
loyalty and good-will.

‘Jon the TEACHER ‘Jon the STUDENT

 

Material for assembly and community programs. Always an educative something-to-do.

Practical ideas and suggestions for clubs and ‘A wholesome good time—a happy, eventful
home rooms. school life.

Plans for parties, banquets, and socials. A rich experience in genuine democratic living.

What SCHOOL ACTIVITIES subscribers. '
received the past gear for only $2.00

21 Articles on School Assemblies
14. Articles on Athletics
EXECUTIVES of SPONSORS of

56“ Articles on Clubs
11‘ Articles on Commencements

   

       
    
       
          
    
         

   

7 Articles on Debate Senior High Schools Class Organizations
13 Articles on Dramatics Junior High Schools Financing Activities
7 Articles on Financing Activities Elementary Schools Trips and Excursions
6 Articles on Home Rooms DIRECTORS of COACHES of

7 Artieles on MUSE Activity Programs Athletics

20 Articles on Parties Assemblies Debate

23 Articles on Program Material Class Plays Other contests

8 Articles on School Publications ADVISERS of STUDENT LECTURES in
3 Artldes on SChOOl Spirit Department Clubs Class Organizations
12 Artides on St.“de Govergmsnlt. Home Rooms Parties and Banquets
10 Artlcles on Miscel aneous C IV] Ies Pep Organizations School Clubs

 
 

Also scores of pithy Editorials, News Items,
Book Reviews, etc.

[ Student Publications Student Government I

0 T h' ' ble material than several Sllbscription price is only $200
23 is more usa
books at many times the cost would bring  

to you! 1515 Lane Street Topeka Kansas

 

...THE MAGAZINE WITH A BIG PLACE IN EVERY SCHOOL...

485

486 YOU ASKED FOR IT!

sentative of the life of the oceans and which
will be equipped to assist materially in satisfy-
ing the rapidly increasing desire for knowledge
of nature.

Land Utilization in Great Britain
(Continued from page 469)

pies of instances where town planning develop—
ments had been materially revised, after the publi-
cation of the maps, in order that the development
might interfere as little as possible with existing
effective use of property and at the same time
take advantage of the opportunity to acquire and
use at reasonable prices land which was suitable
only or primarily for park and recreational pur—
poses. Examples were cited where, through the
presentation of a map, city councils had been able
to visualize the opportunity in the acquisition of
parks and that schemes which otherwise could not
have aroused the interest of municipal authorlties
had met with hearty support.

You Asked for It!

(Continued from page 470)

Suggested Clues. Clues may be given in the
form of a quotation of a song which will reveal
the location of the treasure or the next clue. The
song “Come Out and Play with Me” with the
words “and climb my apple tree, holler down my
rain barrel, slide down my cellar door,” may lead
to a search in all those places -or any of them ex—
isting where the group is gathered.

Ways of Checking the Hunt

To have your treasure hunt successful and fun
for all, it is necessary that every one, especially
the ‘winners, should have found each clue. Noth-
ing makes leading hunters more upset than to be
trailed by a group which does not read the clues
but tags along and may even be lucky enough to
find the treasure at the end. There are several
devices to stop this. Here are a few:

I. Make duplicates of all clues so each person or
group may take one. The winner must show
one of each in order to keep the prize.

2. Draw a different symbol (a simple one) on the
corner of each clue. The hunters must copy
these in order.

3. Slips of paper of a particular color or pebbles
dipped in a showcard paint are left at every
clue. Hunters take one, so that at the end they
may show a full series.

4. Some person is stationed near each clue (or
gives the clue as hunters come) and checks ofi‘
names.

. After each clue is found a duplicate of it must
be checked with a central checker before the
next clue may be found.

UI

An Indoor Hunt

If you are interested in having an indoor hunt
for your group, a couple hunt makes an interest- '
ing activity for mixed parties of girls and men.

At the party each girl is given what seems to be
a cardboard windmill, really a piece of a jig—saw
puzzle of about forty—eight pieces. Each boy r.e-
ceives a small Sealed envelope. \V hen directed to
pair off, they discover that the letter on the back
of the cardboard piece and on the envelope cor-
respond. They are then directed to open the en-
velopes and follow the clue. If by chance the)
come upon an envelope bearing a letter other than
theirs, it is to be replaced carefully where found.
After the other live envelopes have been found the
puzzle is to be pieced together on one of the
available table spaces, the first puzzle completed
to win the prize.

This sample trail will give an idea how the
clues may be worded.

Clue I, in the envelope given to the boy:

“I come from the place where they found
Moses. He is dead. N 0w they sit on me and lean
on my arms.” A reed armchair on the sun porch.
There Clue” 2 is found:

“Even when they look at me they are so inter-
ested in themselves they do not see me.” A mir-
ror in the hall, behind Which is Clue 3: ,

“They step all over me as they go in and out.”
Underneath the rug in the hall they find Clue 4:

“They set me sailing until I find myself an—
chored on the wall in no time at all.” This leads
to a banjo clock on the wall with a decoration of
anchor and sailing vessel, and the next clue:

“Or they set me in such a tight place I feel all
needles and pins in my legs.” A sewing basket on
the porch table reveals the last clue.

“Guess it will always be like this until m’call
comes over the Jordan.” And so they reach the
last enevelope in a M cCall’s Magazine on a table
in the living room.

Then they piece the puzzle together. Of course
the trail, for each couple was different, but all
were equally difficult and had the same number
of dues.

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs

An Operetta in Three Acts by Jessie L. Gaynor. Clayton
F. Summy Co., Chicago-New York. Full vocal score
and libretto, $1.25. Orchestration on rental.

HE LIBRETTO AND MUSIC of this operetta are as hap-

pily engaging as its title has recently become. They
are here arranged for performance by boys and girls
from about ten to fourteen years of age, but the fairies
and gnomes whom Snow White meets in the woods—
merry and friendly they all are, not gruesome—could _well
be in reality younger children. Only two stage sets are
necessary though a third is suggested. If a theater is not
available the interior sets can be created with neutral
screens, and the out-of-door one (if the playground or
park setting will not itself do) can be done with a single
curtain on which some trees or even only one conven-
tionalized tree has been painted. The music‘ is sincere,
unpretentious and delightul throughout, and it is well
within the powers ‘of an ordinary group of school or rec-
reation center boys and girls. Most of it is either for
unison chorus or solo; the rest, for_two-or three-part
treble chorus, being also easily learned. There might
well be greater variety in the music, but regret over this
lack will probably be forgotten or never. felt after the
first section of the marching song of the dwarfs has been
learned.

The Operetta is for a full evening’s entertainment.
There is no royalty charge, but the publishers ask that
at least twelve copies of the vocal score be purchased in

return for necessary permission to perform the Operetta.
' —A. D. Zanzig.

Nebraska Nature Trails

Prepared by Ruth Fleming. Nebraska WPA, Union
“ Terminal Warehouse Building, Lincoln, Nebraska.

T1115 MIMEOGRAPHED BULLETIN of seventy-five pages
contains a fund of material which nature recreation
enthusiasts will want to have. A limited number of the
bulletin is available to individuals outside the state, and
copies 'may be secured on request from Nebraska WPA
as long as the supply lasts.

Child-Welfare Legislation, I937

Bureau Publication No. 236. Children’s Bureau. Govern-
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C. $.10.

Laws AFFECTING CHILDREN and young people from birth
to marriage were passed by forty-six states, Alaska,
Hawaii, and Puerto Rico last year, according to a com-
pilation recently released by the Children’s Bureau. Laws
for the protection of child health and public health in
general were passed in a number of states, and physically
and mentally handicapped children were also the subject
of new legislation. Public concern for the prevention and
treatment of juvenile delinquency led to legislation re-

lating to offenses against minors, delinquency and juve-
nile courts, probation and parole, and institutions f0r de-
linquent minors. Closely related to delinquency preven-
tion were laws providing for new or improved recrea-
tional facilities or regulating certain types of amusement
which were enacted in sixteen states. A number of these

laws regulated or prohibited marathons, walkathons, and
other endurance contests.

Fist Puppetry

By David Frederick Milligan. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $1.50.

MR. MILLIGAN knows all the answers—how to keep a

puppet from being popeyed or how to make Jack
climb the beanstalk! Whatever the question may be
about fist puppetry, the information is here in one of the
most complete, compact, and concise books yet written
on this intriguing subject. In the simplest manner pos-
sible Mr. Milligan gives detailed instructions for operat-
ing a iist puppet, selecting and adapting a play for pup-
pets, making the head. costume, and puppet booth, and
producing a puppet show. In the last chapter he outlines
briefly ten “fairy tale” plays adaptable to the puppet
stage. In a style distinguished for its directness and
clarity Mr. Milligan has accomplished his purpose to
leave the reader with complete and understandable infor-
mation so that he can organize his own theater group
and “produce puppetry plays to the delight and enjoy-
ment of all concerned.”

Famous Trees

By Charles E. Randall and D. Priscilla Edgerton. Mis-
cellaneous Publication No. 295, U. S. Department of

Agriculture. Superintendent of Documents, Washing-
ton, D. C. $.15.

“ON ALL SIDES there is abundant evidence that forests
are essential to civilized man’s welfare. The indi-
vidual tree, however, has an even more intimate part'to
play in human experience, a part so universal that every
country. has its famous tree citizens.” Because trees are
by their very nature landmarks and memorials closely
identified with human happenings, the Forest Service has
felt it worthwhile to compile several hundred descrip-
tions of, or incidents about trees, taken from reports
coming to its offices and from records and library refer-
ences. The result is a most interesting and attractive
illustrated pamphlet.

Recent Trends in Rural Planning

By William E. Cole and Hugh Price Crowe. Prentice-
Hall, Inc., New York. $3.50.

THIS VOLUME is designed as a handbook for that great

army of workers whose duties take them into the rural
lield, and for the layman who has a constructive interest
in rural problems. Chapter XIII deals with planning for

487

488 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

effective rural recreation. What is the meaning of rec-
reation? What are the problems of rural recreation?
What are the rural agencies that re-create? What are
recreational areas? These and other topics are discussed
under the head of Recreation Planning. Other chapters
of interest to those who are concerned with rural life and
development deal with the economic basis of rural plan-

ning, human resources and planning, tax problems of_

rural communities, and rural juvenile delinquency.
Urban recreation leaders are dealing with many adults
whose early days were spent in just such rural communi-
ties. It is becoming more and more clear that in order to
understand many of the baffling problems of urban life
it is necessary to.understand the roots from which they
spring in the rural areas of the United States. This. is a
good book to have available either in the recreation or

public library.

Portfolio on the National Park and Monument System.

American Planning and Civic Association, 901 Union
Trust Building, Washington, D. C. $.75.

Four beautifully illustrated booklets comprise this
series of publications which tell a graphic story of the
development of the national park and monument move-
ment, and of the work of the government in conserving
our natural resources. The series is dedicated to the
late Stephen T. Mather, first Director of the National
Park Service. The titles are as follows: “What Are
National Parks ?”; “Conservation of Nature”; “Preser-
vation of History”; and “Facilities and Services."

Man- Made Culture.

By Frank Ernest Hill. American Association for
Adult Education, New York. $1.25.

“As self-educators men are queer. Often they take their
clubs with a professed casualness they do not really feel.
They employ secrecy .and indirection, and sometimes
mask an almost mystical enthusiasm with a deceptive
buffoonery.” This little book is the subject of those
“queer self—educators”——-the members of men’s clubs
throughout the United States—who represent fifteen per
cent‘ of the total population of the country.

The Junto Clu'b, founded by Benjamin Franklin in
Philadelphia in 1727, is the oldest known American club.
From that heritage have sprung a host of clubs with
names formidable and mysterious. The work of some is
“thin, dull and monotonous,” but on the whole these
clubs give mental and, to an extent, aesthetic and skilled
stimuli to a million men. Social fellowship, art, music,
handicrafts, nature and gardening interests are partici-
pated in for conscious self-improvement or for the sheer
joy of creative cultural activity. Whatever slant the
reader may have, he will find in these countless clubs a
latent power for good.

Measuring Achievement in Physical Education.

By Ruth B. Gl'assow and Marion R. Broerf \V. B.
Saunders Company, Philadelphia. $2.75.

Methods of evaluation and selection of physical educa-
tion tests are discussed in this textbook which is designed
for use in undergraduate and graduate courses in the
subject. There is a complete discussion of currently
available measures and standards of skill for each phase
of the physical education program. Detailed charts de-
scribe individual tests, giving dimensions, distances, trials,
scores, and test procedures.

Rural Youth on Relief.

Works Progress Administration, Division of Social
Résearch. Research Monograph XI. By Bruce L.

Melvin. United States Government Printing Office,
Washington, D. C.

This volume, Number XI in the series of research
monOgraphs prepared by the Division of ‘Social Research
of Works Progress Administration, deals with the num—
ber and location of rural youth in relief households,
changes in the number of rural youth, personal character—
isthS, educational status, occupations, and youth pro-

 

grams of emergency agencies. The final section contains
the conclusions reached. The volume, well illustrated by
photographs and graphic charts, is an unusually good
statement of the problems of rural young people, and is
worthy of careful reading by any persons having re-
sponsibility for rural work. Furthermore, since impover-
ished youth will in time find their way to urban com-
munities, city recreation work is likewise concerned.

Motion Pictures in Education—
A Summary of the Literature.

By Edward Dale, Fannie W'. Dunn, Charles F.
Hoban, Jr., and Etta Schneider, The H. W. Wilson
Co., New York. $2.50.

In order to help research workers, teachers and ad-
ministrators in evaluating what has been done in the Seld
of educational motion pictures, in considering what ought
to be done and what can be done in this field, a 475 page,
comprehensive, selected bibliography with digests has
been prepared. There is material on the administration
of visual aids, teaching with motion pictures, selecting
instructional material, film production in schools, experi-
mental research in instructional films and teacher prep-
aration in visual education.

A. Y. H. Knapsack.

The American Youth Hostels, Inc., Northfield,
Massachusetts. Each issue, 15 cents.

Four times a year this friendly little magazine edited
by Isabel and Monroe Smith makes its appearance. The
Spring 1938 issue is a travel number. With its attractive
sketches and photographs and its descriptions of trips
and travel schedules it is bound to stir One to adventure!

The subscription price is 60 cents a year.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS
JOHN H. FINLEY, President
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlislc, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Molinc, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, JackSonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRSnMELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan Cty, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

\VALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. VVADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

