October

0

Courtcsv Passaic County, N. J., Park System

377.

 

Abundant Living

Worn-out words? Yes. Inescapable? Yes.

Words of the future? Yes.

In the recent past, conscious values have
been pretty largely work values. Non-work

values were for a future heaven in another

world.

There has been, in the practical everyday
world, a sense of guilt when a man “did

.7

things’ because they were fun, adventure,

romance, abundant life.

Unconsciously and yet nevertheless in reality
the Baal to which America has tended to build
altars for worship has been money, the symbol
of Property—a symbol of stored up work of

oneself and others.

Education the country over has been pri-

U

marin for “getting on, “accumulating

property,” “bettering one’s condition.”

In the pioneer days, values were not in
terms of capacity to accumulate goods. The
good hunter. The good fisher. The valiant
fighter. The story-teller on the cracker barrel
at the country store. The neighbor who was
good fun. The rollicking leader at the neigh-
borhood dance. The man among the lumber—
men who could lead the singing as the men
paddled on the long voyage up into the forests.
The good horseman. The man who was good

with dogs.

378

Men knew the stars, the woods, the ways
of animals, had a kinship with horses and dogs
that you cannot have with autos and autogiros.
Nature and comradeship gave opportunity for
immediate abundant living in spite of, if not
because of danger, uncertainty, hardship. (Of
course a workman was a good and accurate
worker, but he needed to be much more to be
fully at man among men—no matter how many

acres he owned.)

We cannot turn the hands of the clock back
in America. To a limited degree only can men
of imagination make the machine operations
of producing and distributing the neces-
sary clothing, the housing, the food—really
abundant living. No poetry can quite trans-
form dishwashing 1095 times a year, carrying
out of ashes, shoveling of metals, even if most
of this be done by machinery. Do all that we
can to transmute the monotonous repetitive
work of the world into the gold of abundant
living—Yes—but the return will be meager.
Still, we must try harder than we have ever

tried yet. We must have as one element in

the measure of industry this yardstick of_ ‘

value—how much juice is there in it for the
soul of man. For example, the cost may be
greater in certain industries to manufacture
“parts” in factories in scattered villages and
small towns where the workers may have their
own gardens, and live closer to the open

country, but if there be more “abundant liv—

ing” for men, then perhaps the immediate
profits should be less and the abundant living

greater.

But in the field of government, of politics,
of human relations, of housing, of building of
cities, of so-called social work, of education,
above all in the field of leisure and recreation—
let the judgment as to value be in terms of
abundant living now and here, and in the not

too distant future.

Playgrounds, recreation centers, mountain
parks, public beaches, choral reading groups,
orchestras, discussion groups—all that goes to
make up the modern recreation movement is
simply a great tidal wave of the people them-
selves rising to abundant living. It is like a
great new continent of strength and joy and
depth and height and thickness of living rising
out of a partly dry and arid and desert conti-
nent of work made dull largely because we
were too limp to will it otherwise. The amount
of dreariness, and drabness, and dullness, and
hell on earth we have been ready to tolerate
has been beyond'all necessity because we have
made of work a God rather than a servant to

the soul of man.

 

OCTOBER I938

 

Great. as is the immediate contribution of
the recreation movement to the happy growth
of children and the deeper current of life and
continuing growth through fresh interests of
those no longer children in years, yet the
greater contribution is that the recreation
movement is like a flag to hold in increasing-
measure before the American people ’that
what they care most for is not money, prop-
erty, Work in and for itself, but real living for
all. It is a satisfying revelation of the true

nature of America.

It is not to build an all powerful-state, to
reduce crime, to build health, to create workers

who are‘more alive who will produce more—-

\

but primarily and first of all to produce men

and women who live more——

Give us, 0 Lord, this day our daily life.

If we care enough for daily living, there is
in our caring enough dynamite to change

housing, working and all else.

First in all the world is religion—What kind
of God do we worship—Is our God one who

cared first that they might have life and have

it abundantly?

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

379

Day Dreams

Courtesy ‘Gayle A. Faster, A.R.P.S., Greenwich, Conn.

"Resm‘I repose. reflecHon. confemplafién. are in fhemselves a form
of recreafion and oughf never +0 be crowded ouf by more acfive play."

 

 

Almost "As Good As New"

HILADELPHIA’S Christmas

Toy Shower, developed

and directed by the Play-
ground and Recreation Asso-
ciation of Philadelphia, will
enter its tenth year in November with the amazing
record of having sent to the social and recreational
agencies of the city a total of 550,752 renovated
toys, “almost as good as new.” Our Board will,
perhaps, be forgiven for a little boasting on the
score of having achieved the largest and most pro-
ductive project of its kind in America. Last year
104,751 toys were distributed to 124 local agencies.
An outlined review of our set-up may be helpful
to those who contemplate developing a similar
project.

One of the greatest values of this enterprise is
the excellent community cooperation always ob-
tainable because of the desire of everyone to be
of service at Christmas time. It is truly thrilling
to enlist hundreds of agencies and thousands of
individuals into a smoothly working organiza-
tion. People are eager to be affiliated with a suc-
cessful movement which has such service goals,
and welcome the opportunity of helping in a prac-
tical and inexpensive way. They also approve the
development of an excellent method of control
over the distribution so that duplication is avoided
and all needy cases are provided for.

Steps in Organization
A time schedule is very important. Our public,
parochial, and private
schools are the main source

By C. H. ENGLISH ,,

Executive Secretary
Playground and Recreation Association

Philadelphia, Pa.

The toys are packed preparatory to their dis-
tribution through social and welfare agencies

of toy supply. Since the
schools always have a collec-
tion of food and clothing as
a Thanksgiving offering, col-
lection of toys must be de-
layed until after that holiday. Moreover, the
Christmas spirit does not develop until about De—
cember Ist. Consequently the usual season for
collecting and repairing toys is confined to about
four weeks. To crowd this activity into that time
requires numerous organization and administra-
tive details that need to be developed early. Here
are the preliminary steps which we have found
essential:

October

I. Secure approval from the authorities of the
school systems for the collection of toys. De-
tails of dates and assembly programs, are
worked out.

.2. Select the building for the repair shop. In
order to house the project we have to use
space in Convention Hall. An Armory or a
similar building centrally located would be
excellent. \Ve have used vacant store build-
ings. The use of buildings should be granted
free of expense.

3. Arrange for trucking service, for the pick-
up at schools and delivery of hnished toys to
the agencies. In our case one of the news-
papers has in the past provided a fleet of

delivery trucks. Last year

a local trucking company

 

382 ALMOST “AS GOOD AS NEW”

gladly gave us over 4,000
miles of trucking service.

4. Approach VVPA or NYA
and set up a project for
. manual labor. Reports from
all over the country indi—
cate that both these Fed-
eral agencies are willing
to include this type of
project. Last year VVPA
approved a $40,000 budget for our Toy

Shower.

November

I. Send out letters requesting' donations of
needed Sllpplics. Just a few items will show
what is required—paper, string, paint, brushes,
hardware, dress goods, disinfectants. Last
year 140 gallons of quick drying paint was
donated. It is not hard to get what you need.
Everyone is generou's around Christmas time.

2. Send out a requisition to the agencies which
will want toys. This requisition calls for their
request for toys according to number of chil-
dren of both sexes in the following classifica-
tions: 2—6 years, 6—8 years, and 8—10
years. We make it plain that in order to re-
ceive the toys they will be expected to co-
operate to the extent of sending ten volunteers
for one day’s work during December. These
volunteers are scheduled so there will be an

even distribution.

3. The women directors of our Board take com-
plete charge of this project. The various com-
mittees are at work in November. The Ex-
ecutive Secretary becomes just a handyman,

although plenty busy at that!

4. The shop is set up the last two weeks of No- '

vember. A foreman or superintendent is em-
ployed by the directors who, with WPA
workers, sets up the work benches and shelves.

By using odds and ends
from the previous year he
is able to start on the work
of repairing by December.
Ist. The WPA workers
must be trained for this
specialized job, including
the women in the D011
Department who learn re-
pairing, plastic surgery and
beautification.

It may seem early to be talking about
Christmas plans. but as Mr. English
points out a time schedule is impor-
tant it you are going to make the col-
lecting and repairing of toys a part
of your Christmas program. So here is
a brief résumé of the way Philadelphia
attacks the project—a method which
has resulted in the reconditioning
and distribution of over 500.000 toys.

The announcement has been made that New
York Cityl through WPA. is to conduct a
Christmas toy project on a large scale.
More than a hundred workers have already
been selected for the task of repairing
old toys and making simple new ones from
surplus and scrap material. When the ac-
tivity reaches its peak before Christmas,
- it will put to work between two hundred
and three hundred men and womenl the
majority of whom will be recruited from
the ranks of the handicapped.

December

A busy month, this! Toys
by the truck loads come in
each day, and others, repaired
and usable, are delivered daily
to social agencies in packing
boxes supplied by the large
department stores. It is a
busy scene—with 160 WPA
_ carpenters, cabinet workers,
tinsmiths, painters, metal workers and helpers all
turning out thousands of toys each day. And in
the D011 Department are eighty WPA women
workers and scores of volunteers making the dolls
look like new with new dresses, new coverings of
body and, of equal importance, a face-lifting job!

The sorting and packing department is closely
supervised by the Association’s directors who
have become expert in assembling the right kind
of toys for the various age groups. Mention
should be made here about the new doll dresses.
Nearly 5,000 were received last year. These
dresses, made by volunteers, cannot be completed
in two or three weeks. As early as June the chair-
man of this department sends out patterns (there
are eight that will fit any doll made) to several
hundred women who are glad to make the dresses
during their leisure time, mainly the vacation
period. These volunteers buy up remnants and in
many cases the work is done as carefully as it
would be on adult dresses. We are told that hun-
dreds of dresses are made in New England vaca-
tion resorts and homes.

The publicity received always helps in secur-
ing toys from private homes and the enlistment
of volunteers. It also brings in a Hood of requests
for toys, both by letter and in person. The letters
we send to the Christmas Exchange, a clearing
house. We refer individuals to the nearest agency

to whom we supply toys. We never give out toys
to individuals.

Merchants are glad to co-
operate, especially those sell-
ing toys. We clear out for
them sales made last year
and the children who re—
ceive the renovated toys are
not prospective 'customers.

There is a lot of satis-
faction felt by the workers
on the afternoon of Decem-

(Continued on page 420)

’4—‘_-__

A Nature Program in a County’s Parks

UR NATURE PROGRAM in the Essex County
0 parks may justiliably be said to be well

established since it has rounded out two
years of successful operation—successful because
at relatively little cost, children who attend the
the playgrounds in the neighborhood parks, as
well as those in the larger parks where there is
abundant natural background, have been able to

prints, recommended a good deal of source ma-
terial, suggested leaf collections in scrap books,
and took the leaders on trips through the parks
for the purpose of identifying birds, shrubs, and
trees. Our staff specialist, or nature “ranger” as
we called him, led these initial walks and worked
with the play leaders to give them a fund of in—
formation which they might pass on to the children.

 

Opie Hilldock (Nature Story Man). an honorary
chief of the Penobscot Indians, gives a group
of play leaders instruction in nature lore at a
three day institute at Grover Cleveland Parlc

enjoy experiences which
otherwise would have
been impossible.

Believing that a nature
program could not be successful without a special-
ist in charge to see that the nature activities are
thoroughly integrated with the rest of the pro-
gram, we included in our playground staff a young
man whose preparation and training for the most
part had been in the realm of trees, birds, shrubs,
and flowers. Had his natural bent not been in
this field and had he not been both resourceful
and enthusiastic about the subject, the project
would have lacked the quality necessary to give
it life.

We gave each play leader a copy of Dr. VVil-
liam G. Vinal’s pamphlet on trail games, taught
them how to make spatter outlines as well as leaf

The project was so suc-
cessful the first year and
' so many organizations
availed themselves of our
invitation to use the services of the ranger in
conducting nature walks through the reservations
on Saturdays and Sundays and through the larger
parks during the week that a new plan item ap-
peared in the Recreation Budget for 1938 headed
“Uniform for Nature Ranger.”

In anticipation of the program, our tree prun-
ing gang had been asked to give us samples of as
many different types of wood as were to be found
in the parks and reservations. During the winter
these were sawed in such a way as to present
clearly as many interesting phases as possible in
the growth of a tree. They were sandpapered,
shellacked, and waxed, and each playground re-

383

384 A NATURE PROGRAll/I IN A COUNTY’S PARKS

ceived a set of from four-
teen to twenty wood sam-
ples lettered in code with a
key given to the leader so
that they could be accurately
identified. In addition to this
we were fortunate in securing for each of the
playgrounds a chart 16” x 20” with cross sec-
tions showing diseased wood, insect damage, re-
tarded growth after a fire and the increase of
growth after thinning. Another ligure in the
chart showed heart wood, sap wood, cambiunl
layer, inner bark and outer bark, as well as roots
and leaves.

Although some of the trees in all of the parks
had been labeled from time to time, many of the
labels had been deliberately destroyed, while
others had succumbed to natural wear and tear.
It seemed to us that if a project of identifying
and labeling trees could be made interesting to
the children, the labels themselves would have a
better chance for a longer life! While it is too
soon to predict the length of life, we do know
that the projects have been enthusiastically re-
ceived on the part of boys who are very anxious
to identify more trees than we can possibly supply

labels for.

This year terraria, aquaria, and live animal
boxes have supplemented the project started last
year, and elementary astronomy has been carried
a little further. In addition, the nature program
has been correlated with handcraft in the making
of plaster of paris casts of leaves, cones and
acorns, the building of bird houses and bird feed-
ing stations, and the cutting out both in wood and
paper of bird and tree silhouettes. The silhouette
game was the contribution of one of the children
who conceived the idea of having a youngster
stand near a tree while the rest, provided with
scissors and some newspaper, proceed to cut out
a silhouette of the tree and the live subject. The
use of blueprint paper for making leaf prints has
been added to the spotter outlines and roller leaf
prints, and collections of insects, and nests, and
minerals have, of course, made their appearance.
At one of the parks the live animal collection in-
cluded bees, one little colored boy catching them
with bare hands and dropping them into a bottle.

Recognizing the fact that the children in the
neighborhood of city parks have much less op-
portunity for trail-games and nature explorations
than those in the parks of one hundred acres or
more, we arranged last year to take bus loads of

For this. account of the nature program
promoted for the past two years by the
Essex County. New Jersey, Park Commis-

sion. we are indebted to L. C. Wilsey,
Supervisor of Recreation of the System

nature club members for a
day’s outing in the South
Mountain Reservation where
we have nearly two thousand
acres. This proved so worth-
while that plans were made
to double the number of trips this year, giving
the less privileged groups two days in the reser-
vation or in one of the larger parks.

Nature recreation and exploration would not
be much fun, however, unless opportunities were
given to cook meals over tires. So during the
three-day instruction period which was given the
play leaders’ staff, our Eagle'scouts were invited
to demonstrate the different types of tire which
might be useful in the playground. Each play-
ground was given permission to set aside a spot
where a lire could be built every day, the under-
standing being that it would never be used ex-
cept under the supervision of a member of the
instruction staff. While some of the lireplaces
were rather elaborate and two or three of them
which were in favored positions were built by the
children in more or less permanent form, most of
them were, by intention, of the temporary type
and were disassembled as soon as the meal was
over in order to avoid any temptation to start a
lire unsupervised.

Among the subjects in which instruction was
given our staff members were the telling of nature
stories and the correlation of handcraft with na-
ture work. Our women leaders were given an op-
portunity to practice the art of driving nails. If
Dr. Vinal believes it is good nature recreation for
children to milk cows, gather honey, and do other
chores incidental to farm life, then we may well
be justified in classifying under this heading our
nail driving contests! They are certainly recrea-
tive in character, and they involve skills that are
ultimately useful to the individual.

The sum of six dollars provided us with one
hundred and twenty 3’ pieces of 4 x 4 spruce—
second hand, of course—into which more than 300
pounds of nails were driven, using all four sides
and both ends. The girls enjoyed this as much as
the boys, and became champions in their own
right.

In casting about for some way in which to use
a large amount of very soft wood Which had been
donated by a local cigar box maker, we hit upon
the idea of taking these 5” squares of wood, out-
lining a leaf on them and then with a light ham-

(Continued on page 421)

Prescriptions tor l-lallowe'en l-loodlums

R, IF YOU PREFER, we’ll just call them well-
0 meaning but over-ambitious pranksters.
After all, what with Christmas being the
holy day, and Thanksgiving more or less on the
serious side, and even the Fourth of July slipping
into the exclusively patriotic class, there must be
one holiday when the youngsters can cut loose
with all their pent up inhibitions!

If it weren’t for Santa Claus, Hallowe’en would
be the favorite holiday for all children. Even so,
it is the most delightful to many of them for two
reasons: (I) it appeals to the child’s imagination,
and (2) it stimulates his “inner urge” to be some-
thing he isn’t, to do things he would never think
of doing any other time. Both of these reasons
are perfectly understandable when- we consider
the old tradition that has come down to us that
elves, witches, goblins and other evil spirits held
revels 0n the night of October 3Ist, that it is a
night of supernatural powers, a time when spirits
walk abroad and commune with the people of the
earth. a .

Hallowe’en rightly should be a time when chil-
dren may lose themselves
in their fun Without

Dayton. OhioI under the leadership of the Bureau
of Recreation. celebrates Hallowe'en hilariously!

stopping to think about the Pilgrim Fathers! It
should be the time for any inhibited emotions or
suppressed desires, so to speak, to find an outlet.
tut (lid you ever stop to think that most children
do not go around all the year carrying suppressed
desires to steal automobile tires or saw down tele-
phone poles? Ten to one they never think about
tearing down a fence or smashing a window until
Hallowe’en rolls around! No, their suppressed
desires are many and varied, but they are .more
“substantial” than that. Probably the “most sup-
pressed desire” of children en masse is to be
grown up so they can go to real parties, or to the
movies, or learn to dance, or be G—Men or Cow-
boys! One thing you can count on for sure, they
think it is exciting to be grown up, and they are
eager for thrills and excitement. The only reason
they knock out street lights is for the thrill of
defying the corner policeman.

There seems to be enough cleaning-up to do in
the country already without any additional debris
as a result of anticipated Hallowe’en “destruc—
tionism.” So why not offer the anticipating de-
structionists a substitute
that is equally as exciting

 

386 PRESCRIPTIONS FOR HALLOWEEN HOODLUMS

and thrilling as soaping a window? That shouldn’t
be hard to find. ,,

In dealing with “Hallowe’en age” boys, there
are three things to remember: (I) the substitute
must be appealing enough to attract them in the
first place; (2) it must be exciting enough to hold
them; and (3) it must be strenuous enough to
relieve them of any excess energy which might
otherwise be put to some unconstructive use. If
you must wear them out, do it subtly and enter-
tainingly. Don’t forget their suppressed desires
—above all, they want thrills and grown-up ex-
citement.

Our suggestions are:

A Community Celebration. The latest and most
constructive kind of entertainment, according to
numerous reports, is a community-wide, or city—
wide celebration designed to attract everybody,
young and old. Minneapolis was one of the first
of the larger cities to introduce a program of suc-
cessful and legitimate merry-making on Hallow-
e’en, in cooperation with the mayor, the park
board, schools, churches, and civic and commer-
cial organizations. Notes written by the Citizen’s
Hallowe’en Committee were sent home by every
school child, urging the parents to cooperate by
inviting boys and girls to private parties. Thou—
sands of home parties and hundreds of public
parties were held throughout the city. Mystery,
excitement, thrills, and amusement were offered
to every boy and girl, either in his home or that
,of a friend. Such a large-scale program takes
careful planning and supervision.

Fort Worth, Texas, last year, gave a large pag-
eant in which nearly four thousand school children
took part. There was a long parade with a queen,
“Miss Hallowe’en,” and her attendants, floats,
bands, etc. The streets were decorated and illumi-
nated in the elaborate fashion of a mardi gras.
Hundreds of prizes were awarded for costumes,
floats, impersonations, etc.

Other communities have decided if there is any
cleaning up to do in connection with Hallowe’en,
the youngsters can help do it, so they subtly com-
bine cleaning-up campaigns with city-wide cele-
brations, which usually begin with a general pa-
rade for everyone. Huge sectional bonfires are
built where different groups compete to see who
can burn the most rubbish, so to speak. Replicas
of the town hall and other buildings are made with
barrels, with the rubbish inside, and prizes are
given for the best “building.” If little Oscar has
an urge to do something destructive, let him get it

out of his system by throwing his mother's old
worn-out mattress on the fire. She probably had
it stored away in the basement with a lot of other
fire-hazard junk, anyway. Some groups may also

- burn witch effigies after prizes are awarded for

the best ones.

Greenwich, Connecticut, practices the “wear
them out” theory by marching the youngsters
through the town before bringing them to the
auditorium where the entertainment is to be held.
The parade is planned to attract all youngsters,
with simple prizes for the best this and that, and
plenty of entertainment within itself. Costumes
are judged in the line of march and tickets are
given to the winners who must proceed on to the
auditorium to receive their prizes. This induces
the children to take part in the parade, since they
cannot compete for the prizes at the auditorium
without a ticket. A platform is built across one
end of the gymnasium where such traditional
games as “Bobbing for Apples,” “Black Cat and
Bat,” take place. The smaller children are enter-
tained first so they can be taken home early. Short
movies, simple prizes, and refreshments are suf-
ficient compensation for the evening’s activities,
and children are usually tired and willing enottgh
to go straight home to bed.

A Barnwarmin'. This can be made . quite an
elaborate, though inexpensive affair, if desired.
In the first place, why not let each boy ask a girl
to go with him as his partner? More than likely
he has never had a real “date” before, and you
may be sure this is one of his suppressed desires,
whether he will admit it or not. Needless to say,
the party should be well supervised by adults, but
the boys themselves could form an entertainment
committee, and have great fun thinking up things
to scare the girls. Invitations might be written in
apprOpriate language and delivered at night a few
days before the event is to take place. In Colum—
bia, Missouri, the boys rent a wagon and horses
and clatter around over the streets amid much
hog-calling and other weird noises, making a gala
affair out of the “invitation night” itself. The
couples might dress either in Hallowe’en costumes
or in aprons and overalls. A “Spook Alley” or
“Chamber of Horrors” should be the only means
of entrance to the gymnasium which is decorated
appropriately. Ganles, contests, square dancing,
or social dancing should provide enough enter-
tainment for the evening. Perhaps the boys can
dig up a brass band to furnish music and comical
numbers. Don’t worry, they’ll put every effort

-4—

PRESCRIPTIONS FOR HALLOWEEN HOODLUMS 387

into creating something
really unique for their “first
dates.” They won’t have
time to remember that fence
they meant to tear down
this year!

A Masquerade Ball. Boys.
and girls grow up fast now-
adays, you know. At least
they think so, even if you
don’t. “Hallowe’en age”
boys don’t “go for” parties.
Just plain old parties are too “sissified.” But a
masquerade ball, now that’s different. In fact that’s

ago, wrap

even better than an apron and overall party to a

most of thein. Why? Because it offers them an
opportunity to be grown-up, dignified. And be-
cause children associate mystery, romance, and
thrilling adventure with a masquerade ball. Give
a boy his choice of a nice, big window to soap or
a masquerade ball with his best girl, and see
which he takes! Such an event should be planned
as much like a grown—up affair as possible. Every-
one should come masked, and a grand march,
dancing, games, and costume prizes should be ar-
ranged. This kind of entertainment, too, should
be under careful adult supervision, but it can be
fun for the children, none the less. A boy can
get over the Andy Hardy stage, but not around
it, and here is a chance to get part of it out of his
system.

A Strawstack Wiener Roast. If you really want
to give the boys and girls good, clean, exciting fUn
on Hallowe’en, something different, something
thrilling, and something they will remember
many years, your best bet is a strawstack
wiener roast. Make arrangements with a coun»
try farmer ahead of time to save one of the
large strawstacks or haystacks he was going to
burn down anyway; rent a wagon and horses
from him, and cover the bottom of the wagon
with straw. Each person comes in costume, brings
his own package of “buttered buns,” and “chips
in” on the wieners. The trip to the country in a
horse-drawn wagon will be loads of fun, espe-
cially for city children. Many games can be played
on top of the strawstack,” with small lighted stacks
burning all around it. Other games can be played
on the stubble-field around the large stack. Ghost
stories and fortune telling have a definite place for
a group like this. After the wiener roast, light
the big strawstack, and sit around it singing songs.
Then comes that unforgettable, merry ride back

"A Hallowe'en party can be the most fas-
cinating of all festive occasions. Super-
stitions that came down from pagan ances-
torsI who celebrated the origin of the day
as a druidic autumn festival 2,000 years
it in mystery
from other holidays. Old games like bob-
bing for apples and looking for a future
mate's image by candlelight in a darkened
room still persist after many years and add
their quaint charm to more modern forms

of Hallowe'en play."—Leo V. McCarthy.

to the city, in the bottom of
the straw—covered horse—
drawn wagon, all the group
singing at the top of their
lungs, and a full, harvest
moon grinning down ap—
provingly. What could be
more complete? For« young
and old alike the old-fash-
ioned strawstack party has
everything—thrills, excite-
ment, mystery, and joy.
And more than that, it has the right kind of
wholesome impressiveness for the children to
grow up with.

and set it apart

Parties

Just “parties” doesn’t mean much. There are a
thousand and one parties you can have on Hal—
lowe’en. Parties for small groups, and large
groups, for small children and teen-ones, for
grown-ups and grandfathers. There are church
parties and school parties, and parties with special
themes, like Pumpkin Parties, Witch Parties,
Spook Parties. Well, somewhere we must draw
the line. Since we are dealing primarily with
suitable substitutes for potential pranksters, we
can, for our purpose, divide the parties into two
main groups, indoor and outdoor parties.

Outdoor Parties. “There is something in the
autumn sets the gypsy blood astir, something
magic, something grand” — Those words hold
more truth than poetry. There is only one thing
a boy’s better nature loves more than the wide
open spaces, and that’s the wide open spaces in
the autumn. The strawstack party described above
is, of course, the epitome of what a boy expects
of the out—of—doors in autumn, but runners up for
this distinction are Gypsy, Cowboy, Pirate, In»
dian, or Hobo Campfire parties planned in some—
what the same manner. Or better still, an over-
night mystery hike, provided there are adequate
adult supervision and safety precautions. Have
the group assemble at four o’clock in the after-
noon prepared for hiking. Your route is well
chosen, but the destination remains a secret.
Somewhere along the way, have a treasure hid-
den, and the crowd halts at a nearby spot to
search for it. You might also have a scavenger
hunt, and a wiener roast. Afterwards, tell ghost
stories around dying campfire embers, and camp
out for the night.

(Continued on page 422)

 

. Toy Loan Centers

FEW YEARS AGO a child’s request to borrow a
A beach ball from the Manchester Play-
grounds, Los Angeles, to take to the sea—
shore had to be refused because of the rules of
the playgrounds. The little fellow’s disappoint—
ment so impressed one of the playground leaders
that he determined to work out some method
through which children in every walk of life could
secure toys. His idea was endorsed by the Los
Angeles County Coordinating Councils, and from
this germ has developed what is undoubtedly the
largest Toy Loan organization in the country.
The Los Angeles County Toy Loan was first
established in January, 1936, with headquarters
for office and workshop in a garage. This loca—
tion served one branch situated on the Manches-
ter Playgrounds. The plan proved so successful
that during the next three months nine branches
were in operation in different sections of the
county. A reorganization of personnel and meth—
ods was effected, and the rapid growth of the
Toy Loan idea made it necessary to obtain larger
quarters. Present headquarters are at 106 West
Third Street, Los Angeles, California.
Ty the end of 1937 the Los Angeles County
Toy Loan was operating eighteen branches. Three
months later twenty-eight were in operation, with

twelve more planned for opening before the close
of the year.

388 ‘

'time workers known as “toyrarians.

In I937 funds for the project were first appro—
priated by the Board of Supervisors of Los An-
geles County for the Probation Department. Per-
sonnel for the office and workshop, as well as for
the branches, was furnished by the Works Prog-
ress Administration and National Youth Admin-
istration under the supervision of the Central Co-
ordinating Council off-ice.

Organization

The Los Angeles County Toy Loan includes a
centralized administrative office for control and
supervision and a departmentalized workshop
where used toys are repaired and new ones manu-
factured. A system of district distributing points
called “Toy Loan Branches” is operated by full-
” The com-
munity activities for Toy Loan are carried on by
district Coordinating Council Toy Committees
and a board composed of the district Toy Com-
mittee chairmen constitutes what is known as the
Toy Loan Advisory Board. This board passes
upon applications for'new branches and deter-
mines general Toy Loan policies.

The purpose of the organization is to supply
toys for the play needs of boys and girls between
the ages of two and sixteen. All children in the
district are eligible to use their Toy Loan Branch.
The only requisites are the parents’ consent and
signature on an application card. No dues are
charged nor are there any tines.for breakage or
for the tardy return of the toy.

Sponsorship and Supervision. Works Progress
Administration Project 8130 and National Youth
Administration Project 7946—Y, both sponsored
by the Probation Department, together with the
Executive Board of the Los Angeles County Co-
ordinating Councils and the Toy Loan Advisory
Board, cooperate in guiding the program. Monthly
meetings under the direction of the Advisory
Board chairman are held to coordinate the county“
Wide policies of all districts. The activities and
Operation of the central workshop, of the branches

Toy Loan centers have been established on so
extensive a scale in LosgAngeles County that
they are now a highly organized part of the
program of the Los Angeles County Coordinat-
ing Councils. The Works Progress Administra-
tio'nl one of the cooperating groups. as one
of its projects has prepared a booklet telling
of the methods and procedures used and of
the results obtained. The material used in
this article has been taken from the booklet.

quirements must be

TOY LOAN CENTERS 389

and of the toy committees are in charge of the

director of Toy Loan activities. ,
Coordinating Council Toy Committees. Any Co—
ordinating Council desiring a community Toy
Loan Branch or wishing to assist some other dis-
trict of the county in securing toys appoints a
Toy Committee chairman through its Coordinat-
ing Council chairman. This chairman then at)-
points other committee members from the Coor-
dinating Council. These members are representa—
tives of local organizations such as the Parent—
Teacher Association, women’s clubs, service clubs,
schools and civic groups of various kinds. Three

' members of the committee serve for one year; the

others for two. This method makes it possible to
retain some experienced members on the commit-
tee at all times.

Coordinating Council Toy Loan committee
chairmen make reports at the Executive Board
meetings and the general meetings of the council
in order to keep the council members advised of
local Toy Loan activities. In general the duties
of the local committee are to guide the progress
and activities of the local Toy Loan Branch. This
is done by mai11taining,the requirements of local
branches, by conducting annual toy drives, by re—
leasing accurate publicity to local papers and
magazines, and by presenting constructive pub—
licity to the public at large regarding the project.

Toy Loan Advisory Board. The membership of
the Los Angeles County Toy Advisory Board is
made up of the chairman from each local Toy
Committee, the director of Toy Loan activities,
and the supervisor of the workshop and branches.
The chairman, vice-chairman, the secretary and
treasurer of the Advisory Board are elected an-
nually from the general membership.

Requirements for
Opening Branches

The following re-

met by all local
Coordinating Coun-
cil districts desir-
ing to establish
branches:

1. A suitable lo—
cation for the Toy
Loan Branch must
be obtained. (This
location should be
apart from a room

 

used for any other activities and should be of
sufficient size to allow for expansion of the Toy
Loan Branch.)

2. One thousand usable toys (exclusive of
dolls) must be secured. These toys become the
property of the Toy Loan to be used as desired.

The required number of toys must ,be obtained
within sixty days after the first toys have been
forwarded to the workshop for credit. If the en-
tire number is not obtained within sixty days, all
toys sent to the workshop become the property of
the Toy Loan and will be considered as a dona-
tion to be distributed to the existing branches for
circulation.

3. Five hundred usable toys (exclusive of dolls)
must be secured annually for each Toy Loan in
operation.

Toy Loan Facilities

Toy Loan Branches. As has been stated, each
Toy Loan committee must provide a suitable lo-
cation and, through donations, services and ma-
terials, shelving, storage space, chairs and desks.
Branches are established in various types of lo-
cations such as schools, public libraries, Boy Scout
headquarters, playgrounds, community centers
and parks, according to a community’s facilities.
Ample quarters are required which will permit
the use of space that can be devoted exclusively
to Toy Loan work. It has been found undesirable
to house a Toy Loan Branch in a room with any
other activities.

In deciding upon the location of a branch con-
sideration should be 'given to the distance chil-
dren will be required to go from their homes and
schools. The ideal location is one between the
schools and the children’s homes on a thorough-

fare not too heavily
trafhcked. Many of
the branches have
been attractively
decorated by artists
and club groups

. have provided cur-
tains, flower boxes
and other articles
which help to beau-
tify the center.

Toy Loan Centers.
The popularity of
Toy Loan Branches
has in many in-
stances necessitated

390 TOY LOAN CENTERS

removal to larger quarters. Farsighted communi-
ties have provided new locations with sufficient
space not only for the lending of toys but for the
expansion of Toy ~Loan activities. Frequently Toy
Loan Branches become centers which offer, in ad-
dition to facilities for lending toys, quarters for
cooking and sewing classes, for airplane building
instruction for the older children and storytelling
periods for the younger. Such Toy Loan centers
have become recognized as community resources,
and social work agencies are referring to them
many children who lack recreational opportuni-
ties. Several of the centers are already being built
on city and county owned property so that they
will become permanent locations for the Toy
Loan activities in their communities.

Central Toy Loan Office. The central Toy Loan
office is located in the same building as the work-
shop, thus permitting close supervision of all ac-
tivities. The central office provides office space
for the director of Toy Loan activities, the super-
visor of the workshop and branches, chief toy-
rarian, the statistician, timekeeper, secretary and
supply clerk.

The Workshop. Operating as a central repair
department for all toys used in the Toy Loan
Branches, the Toy Loan workshop is beyond
doubt the most highly specialized doll and repair
center in the country. Skilled workers are em-
ployed and special repair materials from all parts
of the nation are used in efficiently rehabilitating
the many types of toys, dolls and games received.
Six departments carry on their special duties
under the direction of a sh0p foreman. Toys re-
ceived are segregated and placed in the wood-
working, mechanical, wheel goods and doll de-
partments for repair. Repaired toys are taken to
the paint department for final rejuvenation and
then sent to the stock room for numbering and
delivery to the branches. A biweekly schedule is

maintained by the delivery department to service
the branches.

During the twelve months of 1937, 20,451 toys,

dolls and games were repaired in the various de-
partments as follows:

\Voodworking Department . . . 6,757
Mechanical Department . . . . .. 8,963
Wheel Goods Department. . . . . ' 2,244
Doll Department . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,487

Through the efforts of the toy committees, the
number of toys on hand in December, 1937 was
17,389. Of this number 7,150 toys were in the
eighteen branches, 5,134 toys were repaired and

on hand ready for delivery to the branches, and
5,I5o toys were in the various departments of the
workshop in the process of being repaired.

The Toyrarian Training School

A training school for new toyrarians is located
in the central Toy Loan office and workshop to
instruct new branch workers in the uniform lend-
ing system Used in all branches. These workers
are chosen on the basis of qualifications which en-
able them to meet the threefold requirements of
work in the district branches. They must be
familiar with community organization, under-
stand child psychology, and have a working
knowledge of reports and general operating sys-
tems. Every toyrarian is given a complete train-
ing course for a sufficient period of time to in-
dicate that she is familiar with the required opera-
tions of a Toy Loan Branch. The proximity of
the training school to the office and workshop en-
ables the new worker to familiarize herself with
general operations of the repair department and
know what types of toys are available for lending.

Methods of Procedure

Any child between the ages of two and sixteen
may become a member of Toy Loan by making
application for a card which is signed by the
child’s parent and returned to the toyrarian. A
borrower’s card is made out in the name of the
child and retained in the branch. Toys may be
borrowed for seven or fourteen day periods.
Special cards are issued to schools and churches
giving one person the right to take out sufhcient
toys for a group of children for a period of a
month.

To instill the value of honesty, promptness and
care of property in the members of Toy Loan, a
code of honor is encouraged by a system of
“honor borrowing.” When a child borrows a toy
and returns it on time and in good condition, his
card is marked 'with an “S,” which indicates sat—
isfactory treatment. After a sufficient number of
“S” marks appear on the card the borrower be—
comes an “honor borrower.” This places his
name on the honor roll plaque in the branch and
entitles him to choose toys which are most de-
sirable. Periodically incentive presents are dis-
tributed to the honor borrowers. These are usu-
ally attractive but non-durable toys or games re-
ceived in toy drives. Toy branch parties are often
given for honor borrowers.

TOY LOAN CENTERS 391

Dolls are the one exception to the rules of Toy
Loan. Since almost every little girl becomes at-
tached to a doll and wants it for her own, even
though she may never have owned one before, to
have to return it might cause sorrow. Any little
girl may choose a doll and take it home with her
on probation. At the end of each two weeks’
period for six weeks she returns to the branch
with her doll. If it has been properly cared for
during this period the child becomes the legal
guardian of the doll and receives an adoption
paper similar to a legal document of adoption.
During the years 1936 and 1937, 1,871 dolls'were
adopted.

A delivery of newly repaired and painted toys
is made to each branch every two weeks in ex-
change for the broken ones and those which have
become less popular. This provides a constantly
changing group of toys from which the children
may make their selections and provides a wide
variety of toys and games available to each dis-
trict operating a Toy Loan Branch in the county.

The Toy Loan Application Card ‘

APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
L. A. COUNTY Tov LOAN

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Address

I agree to see that reasonable care is taken of toys
borrowed and that they are returned promptly.

No responsibility is assumed by Toy Loan for any
acc1dent which may occur in the use of toys.

Parent’s Signature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Dear Parent :

Your child is interested“in the local Toy Loan

Branch at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Toys are loaned free on a 7 and 14 day time period.
The toys are completely renovated and disinfected be-
fore releasing to another child. There are absolutely
no lines for delay in returning toys or for toys that
are broken. However, we want the toys taken care
of and returned in as good condition as possible.

We would appreciate your c00peration and feel
sure that your child will benefit by using Toy Loan,
which is sponsored by the Los An-geles County Pro-
bation Department through the Los Angeles County
Coordinating Councils.

Please fill out and return both cards.

 

I.

IO.

II.

12.

I3.

14.

Suggestions for Organization

Set up a Coordinating Council Toy Commit-
tee of active members, who are willing to
work.

. Request the presence of the Director of Toy

Loan Activities at the preliminary committee
meeting for advice.

. Find a suitable location for the branch.

. Devote four weeks for toy drive publicity, de-

voting the first two weeks to educational Toy
Loan information and the second two weeks
to specific information regarding the toy drive.

. Make direct contacts with organizations to

encourage individual drives.

. Forward the Council application for a Toy

Branch to the Toy Loan Advisory Board.

. Plan on several types of drives, such as,

house to house, schools, general community,
theaters, and special organizations.

. Obtain locally donated truck services for toy

drive pick—ups within the community and for
all toys to be taken to the workshop.

.Arrange for shelving, storage cupboards,

chairs and desks, and other desired equipment
for the branch, through community donations '

.of services and material or equipment.

Notify the central office two weeks in ad-
vance of opening, to permit a Toyrarian to be
requested and trained for the branch.

Notify the community at large of the opening
date and establish open house.

Publicize Toy Loan within the community,
through a weekly newspaper column and in-
form parents regarding the local branch. This
will increase membership and community co-
operation.

Establish a permanent monthly date for Toy
Committee meetings and advise the central
Toy Loan ofhce of this, so the Director of
Toy Loan Activities may be present.

Carry on permanent Toy Committee activi-
ties and report such activities to the Coordi-
nating Council.

. Build up branch activities and notify the

public of them.

Encourage visitors from the community to
see the local branch and the central workshop
in Los Angeles.

More Than uAAere Puppets”!

'1‘. ALL STARTED in September,
I 1936, when _the Recreation

Department of WPA
brought George New, a young puppeteer, from St.
Louis to Decatur to supervise recreational pup-
petry in the central part of Illinois. It was then
that a group of Decaturites actively expressed
themselves by asking the city’s Recreation Asso-
ciation for a class in puppetry. George New was
iven the task of developing this interest. Now,
vo years later, Decatur has a permanent puppet
y sh0p with complete facilities for making and
ducing plays with any kind of pUppets. Here
'husiastic children and adults come from all
over the city to play together under skilled lead-

ership. Puppetry is definitely a part of the year
i‘,round program of the Decatur Recreation As-
"‘ sociation.

This city-wide puppet program grew out of the
activities of Decatur’s first puppet organization—
the _Decatur Marionette Guild.
The Guild is a dramatic organi-
zation purposing “to develop and
further puppetry as a commu-
nity-wide and creative leiSUre
time activity.” There are no fees
for membership,- the only re-
quirement being a signed pledge
to cooperate fully with the di-
rector. Membership is open to
any adult or older child, and in
December, 1937, there were forty
members ranging in age from
fourteen to sixty, including peo-
ple interested in such fields as
art, music, dramatics, design and
writing.

The best things the Decatur
Marionette Guild has accomplish-
ed cannot be put down on paper
—the satisfaction of self-expres-
sion of a great number of talent-
ed individuals; the feeling of
comradeship developed by work-
ing and playing together; the
awakening of a community feel-
ing for puppetry—these are
things we have accomplished.
lint it is impossible to get a

392

   
 
  
   
 
  

By GRACE MOORE PATRICK
Decatur. Illinois

 

Courtesy Decatur Marionette Guild

Guild member to admit any-
thing more noble or sentimen-
tal than “loads of fun.” In
fact, as a newcomer to the Guild last summer, I
had to borrow the official scrap book of the or-
ganization and read newspaper clippings in order
to find out just what kind of an institution I had
joined. Everyone was always too busy making a
puppet, painting a scene, rehearsing lines or ad-
justing lighting effects to explain any elaborate
organization plan to me. There was no such plan
--—no one had evei" stopped to worry about a
“stuffy” constitution!

Through clippings I discovered that the Guild,
with the cooperation of WPA, the Association of
Commerce, and the city’s Recreation Department
brought Decatur its most popular and democratic
,Christmas gift in 1936—puppet shows in the

specially built puppet theater in Central Park, the-

heart of Decatur’s shopping district. These shows
were. so well received that 50,000
citizens asked for the same gift
annually—indefinitely. On De-
cember I, 1937, the Guild pre-
sented the results of another six
weeks of concentrated coopera-
tive work, “Santa Claus’s Toy-
land Revue,” and the sacred “N a-
tivity” play. A permanent pup-
pet stage was built in Central
park, a stage that can be moved
from one park to another all
through the year, and the Asso-
ciation of Commerce opened its
purse wide to furnish ‘the stage
with an elaborate switchboard,
rheostats, \cyclorama, public ad-
dress systemwin fact, all the
physical equipment our hearts
desired.

Standing on straw which pro-
tects the” beautiful Central Park
lawn, 3,000 citizens of Decatur. a
third of them children, saw the”
opening of a month of daily pup-
pet shows on Friday after
Thanksgiving. The next day,
5,000 people, with as many broad

(Continued on page 423)

Development of Rhythmic Therapy for Women

URING the past thirty
D years rapid strides

have been made in
the treatment of the men-
tally ill. These experiments have developed a new

therapy called recreational therapy.

Rhythmic therapy, as an adjunctive of recrea-.

tional therapy, is an attempt in physical education
made by the therapist to induct the mental or
nervous patient into suitable corrective and pos-
tural exercises by way of music. The music not
only creates a pleasing background of attention
but through beat, accent and rhythm, much of the
confusion of command is eliminated. In_other
words, because of its simplicity and its regulation
of tempo, it creates an ideal set-up for class work
in physical exercise for the nervous or mentally
ill. The instructor demonstrates the exercise; then
the accompanist, instructor and class work to—
gether, the class following principally by imitation.

Importance of Trained Leadership

Many patients work much better when the in-
structor continues to work with them. This is
quite a different method than that commonly ac—
cepted as best, pedagogically speaking. Herein
lies the difference; individuals who are in normal
mental health can be carried through by one
demonstration of the instructor and, upon signal,
continue to exercise until stopped, giving the in-
structor a chance to observe their execution, to
criticize, encourage and correct the individual dur—
ing that time. In the case of the mentally ill, ex-
perience proves that the patient’s enthusiasm and
perfection of execution is directly imitative, con-
ditioned, of course, by the individual inhibitions
of age.

A class of this kind works through imitation
and depends so much upon it that time and again
a member will imitate even the mannerisms of
her instructor, tuck in a lock of hair or scratch
her nose when she does. So it behooves the in-
structor to imbue patients with some of her own
enthusiasm by actually doing an activity with
them, thereby emphasizing the way it is to be done
rather than the consequence or even the perfect-
ing of it. In this connection it is important to
note that the instructor should have such a per-

By MARION Bow HAMMOND, B.A.

Recreational Director for Women
Milwaukee Sanitarium

sonality that this method
may operate successfully.

Because this therapy is
a specialized prescription,
it is important that the instructor be a trained
therapist either with a specialized degree in physi-
cal education which would include a thorough
knowledge of bones, muscles, and body functions
and ground work in recreational teaching, or else
at least a year’s training in physical therapy with
additional work in recreation. Dr. Coulter, in a
paper read at the Tri-State Hospital Assembly
held in Chicago, Illinois, emphasized the impor-
tance of such qualifications of training in -
therapists.

Such an attitude of instructor to class should
and does reach both neurasthenics and hypochon-
driacs. In the case of the former the response is
splendid, because the activity is non—competitive

' and limited enough to avoid fatigue; in the case

of the latter, the music, which induces smooth-
ness and ease in'execution, also redirects the mind
from the continuous attention to the “function”
of the bodily organs to a “pleasure” in the use of

the muscles of the body rhythmically and correctly.

Dr. William van de Wall has conducted many
experiments proving that music is a “mood condi-
tioner.” He has used it in mental hospitals as has
William James. Dr. van de VVall’s findings and
demonStrations are thoroughly explained in an
article by Dora K. Antrim in the May 1937 issue
of the Rotarz'an.

The Musician and the Music

Special care must be taken in the choice of a
musician. Notice the word “musician”—not
“piano player”—-—-one who has a feeling for fine
music and a technique that can produce tone either
to infect the patients with more pep or to soothe.
Tact should be used in the choice of suitable selec-
tions. One rendering of “Old Kentucky Home”
reduced three out of six in a class to tears, and
one playing of Sibelius’ “Valse Triste” with its
minor cadences caused a patient to become ex-
cited. Familiar pieces are splendid if some care is
taken in their choice, and above all a variety is
desirable; one can’t march to Grainger’s “Coun-
try Gardens” every day of the year!

393

394 DEVELOPMENT OF RHYTHMIC THERAPY FOR WOMEN

Since there is this proved value in music
therapy and it is then added to the modality of
exercise which is so much needed in the social and
physical rehabilitation of the mentally ill, the com—
bination is the secret that will motivate the patient
into action. Some of the same patients in one
sanitarium have attended a class using this mo-
dality daily for eighteen months at a time, with no
undue pressure to attend brought to bear, and
found it “the shortest hour of their day.”

When the spirit and mental processes are con-
gealed, as in the case of depressions, the physical
posture also congeals, so to speak. The ‘posture
crumbles; the head drops forward; there is an
abandoned expression of the .torso as well as the
face, taking effect in a relaxed abdominal wall,
sagging knees, and shrugged shoulders. Postural
corrective exercises can be administered pain—
lessly when there is music to make it easy and a
good instructor to demonstrate, correct and direct.
In one sanitarium this experiment was called
“rhythmic therapy” and was established as a reg-
ular daily routine for the convalescent patients.
In the class were manic depressives, early cases
of dementia praecox, and the psycho—neuroses.

Class Procedure

The class routine must be diversified with‘a
prevalently slow tempo. The day’s lesson carries
the opening exhilaratory and respiratory exer-
cises, two or three deep rhythmic breathing exer-
cises, several big muscle exercises using extension,
flexion and stretch, at least one tension and re—
lease exercise, one or two postural exercises that
will lift the ribs, line up the shoulders and hips
and strengthen weak feet, and some floor work,
with its unsurpassed value for women in the way
of correction of pelvic tilt. Finally, someidancing
——tap, folk, modern creative, or social, all in a
simplified form—should be included.

Large muscle activities must be the only kind
used because of their special strengthening and
circulatory value. If the patients have objects in
their hands to work with, such as Indian clubs
for simplified club swinging, small rubber balls
for musical ball drills, jump ropes, strips of cloth
for tension and release exercises, their attention is
more closely held and the tendency to jerk is
eliminated.

In the State Hospital at Elgin, Illinois, roller
skates have been used with success. Mr. Viggo
Bjorberg, in his vast and venturesome experience
in the use of recreational therapy, has found

music very valuable. His research work at Kan-
kakee and Dundee, Illinois, proved how much can
be accomplished with very manic patients. Dr.
Bush of the Burke foundation at White Plains,
New York, and Mr. John Eisele Davis, play di-
rector at Perry Point, Maryland’s veteran hospi-
tal, also agree on these points.

All exercises must be interspersed with moments
of complete relaxation to music, and a theme
song for relaxation may be used with success.
This hour class must vary every day in the form
in which the exercises are presented; their aim,
the dose, should be maintained, but the adminis-
tration changed daily and “swing” added. The last
fifteen minutes of the lesson, the only part that
will carry daily repetition, consists of a group
game involving teamwork and necessary coopera-
tion among the participants. This form of co-
operation is alien to anyone in a depression be-
cause of his ego concentration at that time. There—
in lies its value. The patients have to depend on
each other to make the ball go over the net in
order to get any fun out of it. This cooperation
occurs in spite of themselves and a patient that
responds to nothing else will often respond here.

Values of Games

The game which is most suitable for this pur-
pose, for women is bounce ball. The rules are
simple, resembling volley ball; the timing is sim-
plified because of the bounce, and the game, with
slight changes of rules, can progress from a sim-
ple game to a more skillfull one. This game may
also be played outdoors on a grass or clay court
in good weather.

Correct timing, which is natural and instinctive
in a person of normal mental health, is often very
poor in depression, and it is fascinating to see it
slowly improve in a game of this sort. One pa-
tient who was tied up into an almost crippled
posture because of extreme tenseness, gradually
acquired enough freedom in a class of this sort'
to run a few steps, and even to skip a little, to
raise her foot over head when lying prone, and
to dance with enjoyment. She was not a young
person, probably between fifty-five and sixty—five
years of age, and her first sign of interest, which
came during the game period of the hour, took
the form of a decided interest in the score—a de-
sire to win. The first words of social conversa-
tion she ever uttered in class were about the score.

(Continued on page 424)

 

Brockton's Art Project

PAINTING ten feet long
A and four feet high de-

picting an old-time
scene from Brockton’s his-
tory is now in the possession
of Massachusetts’ “shoe city”
as the result of a WPA proj-
ect conducted under the leadership of Daniel M.
Creedon, Director, and Sidney V. Wright, In-
structor.

Participants in this project spent more than
three months completing this picture, the subject
of which is Caleb Howard’s “Grist Mill” which,
in 1820, was a landmark in the community. There
were no pictures of the site available, so the stu-
dents were assigned the task of studying the his-
tory of the city and looking up old maps of the
period. The public library gave splendid coopera-
tion in the project. Four students left their indi-
vidual assignments for half-hour periods to work
on the project; at the end of the period other
students relieved them.

When this large painting had been completed
each student was given a subject associated with
the city’s history on which to do further research.
Following the research the individual artist made
a pencil sketch of his interpretation of the sub—
ject. From these sketches he proceeded to make

individual paintings four feet long and three feet
high.

Not one, but twenty artists,
took” part in this pictorial
excursion into the history of
a Massachusetts! community

Interest in the art project
is“ maintained by exhibits at
public places. Each exhibit is
planned weeks in advance,
and a story is given the local
newspaper before the exhibit
and again when the pictures
are being shown. The story gives the names of
the students and tells of the work they have done.

There is always an increase in attendance at
the classroom after each exhibit. Classes are con-
ducted very informally; students may walk
around, talk to one another and exchange ideas.
There are no restrictions as to the subject students
may work on. Some like to paint landscapes,
while others prefer portraits, boats, or still life.

Other arts and crafts projects in the Brocktnn
program include poster—making, metal craft, clay
modeling, and wood craft. Drawing and painting,
however, have the first preference, with poster-
making second.

The Federal Arts Project of the “'orks l’rug-
ress Administration, which operates under four
subdivisions—art, music, writing and the theater
——has employed thousands of actors. artists,
writers and musicians, and has utilized their
talents for the benefit of the entire country. The
writers created the American Guide series which
has come to be widely known.

395

Music and the Theater for American Children

ITHIN THE LAST four years there has been‘a

long delayed awakening in the United

States to the need for the cultural educa-
tion of children; Until then the philharmonic con-
certs in a few big cities were the only attempts at
bringing fine, artistic programs to young people in
their after-school hours. The small—town young-
sters all over the country and the children with
very little money to spend for the most part knew
only one form of entertainment—the motion pic—
tures produced for adult consumption. A few
theaters for children had grown up, but many
had vanished. Except for. local amateur plays
produced by groups such as the Association of
Junior Leagues of America and some commercial
touring companies with varied standards of pro-

duction averaging little above the mediocre, music, '

opera, ballet and the stage with living professional
actors were unknown to the American child.
Dozens of marionette and puppet shows sprang
into being, but only in a few cases were they of
high artistic quality. Parents, and even schools,
were so glad to have any experience in drama or
music offered to the children that they welcomed
everything and anything without discrimination.

A Small Community Leads the Way

Then, about four years ago, one small com—
munity changed the entire picture of cultural en—
tertainment for children. A group of mothers
representing the parents’ and women’s organiza-
tions of the town organized a special committee
and brought in eight entertainments by line pro-
fessional adult artists. One performance a month,
at ten cents a seat, was offered the children—each
program being entirely different from the others.
Among them were a small opera company with
“Hansel and Gretel”; a symphonic ensemble of
fifteen men; a play; a naturalist with films of
animals; a marionette show. The variety offered
attracted children of different
interests. The season ticket'
brought children to perform—
ances which they would not
have come to otherwise, but
which they were surprised to
find they enjoyed.

To the amazement of the
committee 2,000 children

396

Two years ago a new. non-commercial
organization came into being to as-
sist community groups in providing
the best possible type of’cultural
entertainment for children.

Programs, Inc.' with headquarters at

22| West 57th Street. New York City.
will be glad to send you further in- the {11'5"
formation regarding its activities.

bought season tickets, and it was necessary to re-
peat each program twice to accommodate the audi-
ence. The series of entertainments was a success
in every way, even financially. And soon other
towns nearby asked the committee for help in or-
ganizing similar projects in their own school
auditoriums. Some offered performances on Sat-
urdays, when there was no school. Others found
that weekday performances given immediately
after school attracted the children in large groups.
All kept their ticket prices as low as possible and
gave away many seats to children who couldn’t
afford to purchase tickets, including the inmates
of orphanages and hospitals for the crippled. At
last the average child and the underprivileged
were given an opportunity to see beautifully
staged plays, to hear fairy tale operas and ballets,
symphonic concerts and folk songs, to watch skill-
fully manipulated puppets and marionettes, to
learn what fun monologues and travel tales and
other forms of amusement could be.

A New Service Is Organized

Educators awoke to the educational value of
such material, absorbed by young audiences under
the guise of fun amid laughter and applause.
Small towns and large cities began to clamor for
suggestions as to methods of bringing such pro—
grams to their youth. And so in August 1936,
after a period of several years’ careful study and
experimenting, a non-commercial service organi-
zation named Junior Programs, Inc., was formed.
The board of directors and advisory council were
made up of educators, patrons of the arts, and
representatives of national organizations inter-
ested in child welfare and recreation, music and
drama. Junior Programs was set up to serve as
a clearing house for educationally valuable enter-
tainments for youth. The staff and advisors pre—
view and carefully select artists who have done or
want to do programs for chil—
dren, sometimes holding spe—
cial previews before children
so that their reactions may be
observed to suggest needed

Ju"'°r changes.

The organization produced
story-book ballet,
with narrator, “Pinocchio,”

MUSIC AND THE THEATER FOR AMERICAN CHILDREN 397

ever to tour
America, an ex-
tremely successful
production which
continues in the.
repertoire after
two seasons. An-
derson’s tale, “The
Princess and the
Swineherd,” was
next produced in
ballet form, prov-
ing further the
success of the
novel theatrical
technique devised
for children. And
for the coming
season still an-
other narrative ballet based on Shakespeare’s “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream” will be produced.
Heading the Junior Programs Ballet Company is
the eminent American dancer Edwin Strawhridge,
who also devises the choregraphy for these pro-
ductions. He is capably assisted by a corps of
professional ballet dancers.

Junior Programs also has its own opera com-
pany, composed of youthful stars associated with
the New York Opera Comique, San Carlo, Chi-
cago and other opera companies. Their calibre
may be measured by the fact that three of them
have already graduated to the Metropolitan; In
the opera repertoire are the classic “Hansel and
Gretel,” and a new opera adapted from Rimsky-
Korsakov’s “Tsar Saltan,” which was renamed
“The Bumble Bee Prince” and given its premiere
in America before audiences of children.

An original play, “The Reward of the Sun
God,” based on an authentic Hopi Indian legend
and adapted by the author John Louw Nelson
from his best-selling book on Indian life, Rhythm
for Rain, is also included in the repertoire. It
toured successfully last year, performing before
nearly 50,000 children and proving a valuable aid
in classroom studies of Indian life as well as en-
tertainment with a special appeal to youngsters.

Other performances in the Junior Programs list
include various instrumental and vocal groups
who present the more intimate type of young
people’s concerts, a naturalist who shows lilms of
bird life; an artist who draws stories of the bal-
lets of Debussy and other famous composers
while their music is being played; illustrated

 

From I'The Princess and the Swineherd."
as presented by the Children's Theater
of the University of Oklahoma at Tulsa

travel talks; marionettes, puppets, and skillfully
devised shows dramatizing scientific progress, a
chemistry show and an aviation show.

Junior Programs sent out these offerings last
season to twenty-nine states and Canada, as far
West as Wisconsin, and South to Georgia and
Oklahoma, its performers traveling 30,000 miles
to play 242 times before an audience of half a
million children. Its field secretaries assisted the
local committees, parent-teacher groups, schools.
women’s clubs and Junior Leagues, who spon-
sored the performances, in selecting and promot-
ing their series of entertainments. In each com-
munity the activity inspired the enthusiasm at-
tendant upon projects related to the general wel-
fare, and always the ticket prices were kept down
to the ten, fifteen, and twenty-live cent average
to make the opportunities available to every child.

Audiences at Junior Programs’ performances
have ranged from a few hundred to over 6,000
children of the ages of four to fifteen. They are
usually presented in school auditoriums in order
to keep expenses down and take advantage of the
light and airy atmosphere impossible in a theater.
Some towns give only one or_ two programs a
year; others present more. Many include their
local amateur plays in the series and have raised
their standards of production in the process. The

‘ ballets are probably the most popular productions,‘

( C nutimwd on page 424)

l-low Two Cities Did. ltl

'9

Corpus Christi on Parade

of June 1936, entitled “Rec-
reation for Corpus Christi,” the
question “Why should a public
recreation program be provided
for in Corpus Christi?” was
was raised. Now, after a vaca-
tion season in which a founda-
tion has been laid for a public
recreation department, we can look back for our
answer—the need for, and response to, such a
program on the part of the city’s citizens.

During May of 1936, members of the local
Parent-Teachers organization took action to have
a supervised play center for children established
and maintained throughout the vacation months.
The cooperation of the Parks Department was
obtained and -a supervisor employed.

The chosen center, South Bluff Park, was
opened on June lifteenth with very little equip-
ment other than stationary apparatus. Fortunately
for the success of the program, civic-minded in-
dividuals, organizations and business concerns
without solicitation soon donated further equip-
ment. Some of the gifts included two softballs
and bats, two volley ball sets, two croquet sets,
two horseshoe sets, two sets of dominoes, several
checker games, jump ropes and lariats, washer-
toss games, a water cooler and bulletin boards.

The center was opened under supervision on
week days from eight until eleven A. M., and from
. three P. Mguntil dark, and on
Saturday from eleven P. M.

I N AN ARTICLE published in the

It is always of interest to groups
planning for a community-wide
recreation program to know how
other cities went about starting
their activities. and to follow the
steps they took in an effort to
make the work permanent. And so
we are presenting a report of rec-
reation progress in Corpus ChristiI
TexasI and in l’ainesvilleI Ohio.

ing of the center. The smaller
children of pre-school and pri-
mary ages sought out the cro-
quet sets, jump-ropes and sta-
tionary apparatus. The larger
ones took part in varied pro-
grams which included daily ten-
nis instruction, softball games,
shufHeboard, acrobatics, croquet,
volley ball, tap dancing, general
first-aid instruction and safety study. Dominoes
and checkers were in constant use in the shade.
A few adults, too, slipped in on the tennis classes
and some of the games.

Each week terminated with a special informal
Saturday program. Group and individual contests
were held in rope jumping, bar-chinning, ball-
throwing, horizontal ladder stunts, relay races and
“parlor” stunts. Saturday attendance was always
high.

In addition to the games for children on Satur-
days, picnic and family groups were given special
attention. They were encouraged to use the equip-
ment and to share in games. Upon request special
supervision was provided for large picnic groups.

Tennis proved to be the leading summer sport.
The appearance of new paint, a practice board and
bulletin boards at once enlivened the general at-
mosphere of the courts. And even more to the
expressed satisfaction of the players was the es-
tablishment of definite rules g0verning the use of
the courts. The “lirst-come, hog-it-all-day” play-
ers who had monopolized the
courts learned to concede

till dark. As more playing
time was warranted by in-
creased attendance, the soft-
ball field lights were used for
after-dark, free-play periods.
No regular Sunday leader—
ship was provided, but spe—
cial activities such as tennis
meets and softball games
were carried on.

All the equipment was put
into use every day. Little
cliques of children began to
form which appeared regu—
larly shortly after the open-

398

In May I936 Corpus Christi took its first
step to establish a public recreation proi-
ect when. under the auspices of the Par-
ent-Teachers Council and with the co-
operation at the CityI a temporary Rec-
reation Council was appointed and funds
were made available to employ one play
director and purchase a minimum of play
equipment for a four-month trial period.
In November I936, under the sponsors
ship of the Junior Chamber of Com-
merce, a permanent Recreation Coun.
cil was appointed. In February I938 a
constitution was adopted. On June sev-
enth of this year an ordinance was pass-
ed by the City Council making the Rec-
reation Council an official municipal
body and defining its powers and duties.

n

them with good grace to wait-
ing players when the alloted
time was up. Business peo-
ple welcomed the privilege of
reserving courts after 4:30
P. M. The thirty minutes a]-
loted for singles and forty
minutes for doubles held
throughout the day.

The open elimination ten-
nis tournament held in July
received an enthusiastic re-
sponse from ’some lifty play-‘
ers. Prizes and awards d011-
ated by local sporting goods

HOW TWO CITIES DID IT! 399

stores geared Sportsman ri-
valry to high pitch. From the
results of this elimination
tournament a ladder tourna—
ment was drawn up and ac-
tively conducted throughout
the remainder of the season.
Many players from the be-
ginners class found their way
into this tournament before
the end of the season.

Tennis challenges were ac—

cepted for inter-city matches
with Laredo and Ingleside. These meets were

conducted as special Sunday afternoon activities
due to the fact that the players, being for the
most part, business people, were unable to play on
any other day. Non—playing spectators formed
large, interested groups on the side lines.

The “Bike Rodeo” held August 10 to 15 proved
to be one of the outstanding special programs.
Some sixty cyclists matched their wits and skill
in the week’s activities. Educational trips through
a bottling plant and an ice plant were taken by
this group. Special attention was given to indus-
trial safety precautions. A retired professional
cyclist performed on a monocycle and bicycle and
lectured on bicycle and traffic safety as a climax

to the last day’s “rodeo” events.
Shuffleboard and croquet champions were
named at the end of informal elimination tourna-

ments in those games.

describes for us.

The information regarding Corpus Christi
was 'sent us by Hugh T. Henry. His state-
ment. it should be noted, was published
a month after the closing of the demon-
stration period of four months which he
Since that date the
program has expanded greatly. and on
the twenty-eighth of September the fall
season opened at seven recreation cen-
ters including three school grounds. Sixn
teen workers are to be employed. Ma-
terial advance has also been made in the
provision of additional park facilities.

In response to several re-
quests a softball league com-
posed of four fraternal club
teams was formed. Its suc-

cess was attributed largely to
the use of the softball field
lights, which permitted after-
dark play in the cool of the
evening. These games af-
forded pleasure to many
spectators as well as to the
players. Interest was espe-
cially high on the one night
that an amplifying system was used to announce
the play.

The need for extended play time in the cool of
the day when more persons were free resulted in
Tuesday and Saturday play periods under the
lights from 7:45 till 9:30 P. M. 'The group using
these periods grew steadily until as many as 200
persons were using the lighted field at the same
time as participants or spectators. This increase
in attendance was particularly“ great in the older
adolescent groups and the family groups.

Throughout this program the development of
individual physical and mental‘ well-being, social
cooperation, civic interest, sportsmanship and
leadership were the objectives held foremost in
planning and carrying out those activities which
answer the recognized human need for recreation.

Need for public recreation program has been
proven by the response of the citizens of Corpus

 

Courtesy Leo Mcisn'r, Photographer, Newark, N. J.

400

Christi. As people became aware that the recrea-
tion center aftorded them more than free-play ap-
paratus, they began turning out in larger numbers
and with increasing regularity. Thus the 600
scattered participants of the first week increased
to approximately 1,500 by the last week, proving
that there is a desire for appreciation of a super-
vised recreation department for this city. That
this desire is held on the part of adults as well as
children is attested to by the fact that the final
weeks found about fifteen per cent of the partici-
pants to be adults even though no great attention
had been given to them.

If this degree of success can be achieved with
one recreation center and one active worker, we
might well turn our thoughts to the potential
benefits of a city-wide, year-a-round recreation
program.

Recreation Progress in Painesville

It is significant to note that back of the or-
ganizing of recreation in_
Painesville, Ohio, was a
study inaugurated by the Ki-
wanis Club, after a talk by the
Juvenile Court judge had
brought home the fact that
certain areas of the city lacked
the facilities of any organized
recreation program. With this
information, a group of citi-
zens headed by the chairman
of the Kiwanis Underprivileged Child Commit-
tee, and the principal of the high school, went
before the City Council with the proposal that if
the City Council would pay the salary of a di-
rector a group of citizens would raise the funds
,necessary to pay for the equipment.

As a first step, the City Council appointed a
city-wide Recreation Council composed of dele-
gates from the various interested groups. This
Council is still at the head of the program.

On June 20th of this year, the director. with
three paid summer assistants, began work on one
playground, Recreation Park, located on the East
edge of the city. By July 20th there were eight
playgrounds in operation at strategic points. with
live local councils actively engaged in promoting
the work. Only one person in the more than fifty
asked to serve on the local neighborhood councils
refused!

At the Southside playground, the local Coun-
cil went out and secured enough materials and

Stanley Prague. Director of Recrea-
tion in Painesvillel Ohio. attributes
the success of the program in that
city to the whole—hearted service ren-
dered by public-spirited citizens who
volunteered to serve on local councils.
and to promote in their respective
districts the general plan which the
Director of Recreation had outlined.

HOW TWO CITIES DID IT!

labor help from the people in the community to
set up four teeters, six swings, two ball diamonds
and two horseshoe pits. The other local councils
have taken their cue from this start.

The actual program started with city-wide soft—
ball and baseball leagues at each of the play-
grounds. At Recreation Park alone more than
twenty teams entered the first year of play. For
several weeks local held days were held at the
various neighborhood playgrounds in which more
than 800 children participated. As a fitting cli-
max to this program, a city-Wide field day meet
was conducted for the winners of the local
grounds. Approximately 300 children participated
in these finals. In the evening, the Recreation De-
partment, in cooperation with the local paper, the
Painesville Telegraph, staged a big amateur show.
Fifty-one persons took part before a crowd of
more than 2,000 persons, the largest gathering
ever had for such an outdoor event in this
community.

In organizing the local
neighborhood councils the
chairman of each group saw
to it that every man and
woman on the committee had
a definite job to do. The pub-
licity chairmen have found
that if they do not put in the
articles that they wish pub-
lished they aren’t printed! One
publicity chairman is so inter-
ested in his work that when he picked up an edi-
tion of the paper at 11 P. M. one evening and it
failed to carry the story that he had sent in, he
called the office immediately to see why it was
left out! '

This interest which has come from the rank and
file of the citizenry did not die out as a paid di—
rector took charge, as is too often the case, but
rather has increased as the program has grown.
As an example of this interest, one of the staff
of a local garage has volunteered to lead a class
in mechanics. This same sort of response is be-
ing found among all the local councils. A large
degree of responsibility for the carrying out of
the program is placed upon the councils.

One of the essential features of the recreation
program in this city isnthat it does not usurp an
activity already started by any other organization.
For instance, the Y.M.C.A. has always conducted
a marble tournament. The City Recreation De-

(Coytiimed on page 425)

Looking into the Recreational Past

tainty it is that all peoples of the world have
some form of recreation.

Regardless of their state of culture, even when
it is akin to that of the Stone Age, aborigines have
a few well-developed games. In some instances,
as with the Witotos Indians of interior Brazil and
the Ainus of Japan, the aborigines did not even
know how to kindle a fire. Yet these two tribes,
separated in distant parts of the world, had games
that could be played in their leisure time.

Today there are people in America who engage
in sports not for the joy of it but because of the
health element involved. The anthropologist, in
studying primitive recreation, finds that in the
case of ancient peoples the majority of games
were not played for the sheer fun of it. Most of
the games were devised by the tribes to train
youths for battle; thus there was a definite con-
nection between games and physical combat.
Among the American Indians, games were de-
veloped to the point where they became' an actual
part of preparation for war. '

The Samoans still have a variety of games of a
competitive nature, as they had before civilization.
Both sexes engage in boxing and wrestling. The
men enjoy throwing spears for accuracy, and dis-
tance throwing. The Samoans are also fond of
tree climbing as a sport. The entire village comes
out to watch these matches. Canoe racing is an-
other popular sport. Other amusements are hide-
and-seek, forfeits, and riddles. As with other primi-
tive people, however, dancing is their favorite
pastime. This activity is so important to the
Samoans that a poor dancer labors under a de-
cided social handicap!

The Ainus of Japan, a tribe of hairy aborigines
who considered bathing an admission of filthiness
and did not regard themselves as dirty, enjoyed
an odd sort of game in which a man leans for-
ward and allows another man to beat his bare
back with a club wrapped in a cloth. The winner
of the game is the player who can take the most
blows. '

The Kazaks (not to be confused with the Rus-
sian Cossacks), living in Siberia, and one of the

I F THERE is any fact that can be stated with cer—

‘ few peoples on the earth practicing polyandry, '

have a very low state of culture but a highly or-
ganized group of games. They play knucklebones

Through deep delving into little known
or forgotten books and old documentsI
some interesting facts about primitive
recreation have been brought to light

By BERT SEIDELL

—a kind of checkers, guessing games, forfeits,
riddles, and masquerades. They enjoy wrestling
and high jumping over a rope. A highly favored
sport is a running broad jump over the backs of
three or four squatting comrades.

The Polar Eskimos are one group of individ-
uals, according to Peter Fruchten, Rusmussen
Amundson, and other Arctic travelers Who have
observed them, who are capable of enjoying them-
selves thoroughly. The Eskimos like to gather to-
gether in a large hut and take part in boxing and
wrestling bouts, pulling and lifting contests, and
ball-playing with a stuffed sealskin ball. They
also enjoy playing a cup and pin game in which a.
bone perforated with two holes is tossed in the
air and caught with a pointed stick.

The Hopis of Arizona are fond of games of all
kinds: The children play “with stilts, pea-shoot-
ers, and tops spu'n with whips. The adults cast
reed dice, throw feathered corncob darts at a ring,
and play cup and ball. The object of the latter
game is to guess under which of four wooden
cups a pebble is concealed. The Hopis also carry
on archery contests and impromptu wrestling
bouts, and play shimmy with an oak club and a
buckskin ball. Long distance running, however,
is the great national sport. The swiftest runners
are honored, and a foot race forms an integral
part of nearly every religious ceremony. Dancing
is also extremely important, and has a recreational
and religious significance.

The Todas of Southern India, like other primi-
tive peoples, enjoy lifting and jumping contests.
They are also fond of riddles. The Tasmanian,
off the coast'of Australia, for his recreation sets
up marks and throws spears at them.

011 Lake Victoria in Africa live a Negro people
called the Gandas of Ugandu. In addition to

(Continued on page 425)
401

A Texan Community introduces Roque

ESIDENTS of Quanah,
Texas, with enthusi—
asm characteristic of

the great southwest, are ex—
periencing alternating de-
light and exasperation as
they struggle to master the intricacies of roque, a
game played with paraphernalia similar to croquet
but as different from that front lawn pastime as
18.2 billiards is from pool.

Subtract "c" and I't" From croquet and
you have roque—that game of skill
which to many players is as fasci-
nating, and as aggravating, as golf!

“high-falutin’croquet,”
quickly found it was a far
different game from any-
thing they imagined. The
story goes that many years
ago a group of crack cro-
quet players, feeling that the game was much too
simple, decided to make it harder. They did. They
cut off the “c” and lopped off the “t” and there
they had roque, pronounced “roke.”

 

For years roque has been popular in many sec—
tions of the country where it is recognized as a
sport requiring a high degree of skill, but in the
minds of most Americans it was considered little
more than a refinement of croquet—that is until,"

they tried it. Then they discovered, as the folks; 'i

down Quanah way are learning, that it can be as,
fascinating, and as aggravating, as golf.

Quanah’s keen interest in the game has resulted
from the construction by the WOrks Progress
Administration of six regulation roque courts as
part of a recreational development of a plot 600
feet by 300 feet which will contain tennis courts,
a wading pool, a play bed, lily pool and baseball
diamond. Landscaping of the grounds also is in-
cluded in the project.

The six courts, each 32 by 64 feet, were com—
pleted, and Quanah’s citizens, having a go at this

402

The Quanah courts are of rolled sandy clay
four inches deep, enclosed by concrete walls
sloped at an acute angle to give the balls the pro-
per rebound. There are ten arches—don’t ever
call them wickets—of which four are at each end
of the court and two are in the center. These
arches are 05f iine, durable steel and are set in
cement.

The halls, usually made of sycamore wood, are
3% inches in diameter, and to give you an idea
of what the beginning roque player is up against,
the center arches, or cages, are 3% inches wide
and the others only 3% ; and that doesn’t leave
much'clearance when a ball rolls through! '

The mallets are elaborate jiggers, too. They
are smaller than croquet mallets, with two hitting
surfaces, one of rubber for “follow,” or “draw”

( Continued on page 426)

 

For a Lgss' Hilarious l-lallowe'en

HE DEAN of boys broke in
Ton us with the question,

“How can we get eight hun-
dred high school boys to stay
at a party from seven until midnight?”

Without looking up the recreation workers re-
plied in solemn unison,

“Feed ’em.”

As a result the Recreation Department went
begging. First to the service clubs and second to
the churches. Alms were asked with which to
secure cider, doughnuts, apples, and candy, the
best known method of keeping not only the eight
hundred boys but the entire student body of the
elementary school, out of mischief for live con-
secutive hours!

The total cost of the party was approximately

eighty dollars, and the funds came without hesita-.

tion from the various organizations of the city. The
program was of a vigorous, enthusiastic ‘nature,
with the feature spot of the evening devoted to a
football game between two local community high
schools. The day after Hallowe’en police reports
indicated that even such minor items as soaping
windows, painting buildings, breaking flower pots,
fences, or the usual movable paraphernalia of
private citizens, had not been attempted. In fact,
the police oaicials were amazed. “

Planning for 1938

This year we are planning again for Hallowe’en.
And this year we are trying to be even wiser in
our plans. For example, we are starting prepara-
tions earlier, and are enlisting the presidents of the
service clubs and the ministers of our churches
to help us gain a greater participating cooperation.
Our hope again is that we
may be granted fifteen dol-
lars from each of our six
service clubs, the money to
be spent for cakes, candy,
and other goodies. We hope
also that these funds will be
supplemented by donations of
apples or pumpkins from the
ranchers of the area. It is
our plan to borrow teachers,
college seniors, and members

By RALPH E. HENSLEY
Superintendent of Recreation

Chico. California

Few of our observances have undergone
so great a transformation with the pass-
ing of the years as has Hallowe'en. To-
day we have forgotten the awe-inspiring
religious. rites of the druids and the an-
cient Romans to which the origin of Hal-
lowe'en has been ascribed. and our cele-
brations consist of light-hea rted and care-
free activity. The weird superstitions and
pagan practices of a long ago era have
given way to a celebration which is one
of the most delightful of the entire year.

of the Recreation Department
to assist us in planning the pro-
gram for the evening.

In order to gain all these ob-
jectives we have found it essential to spend much
time and effort in securing the serious interest of
the service club men, the school administrators
and boards, and the college authorities. Once in-
terested, these people make such a mass party a
comparatively simple performance.

Our last Hallowe’en party was held on a
lighted football field in our community, taking
care of approximately one thousand youths, with
several hundred younger children coming and go-
ing. This year we are planning again to make use
of the lighted field for some of our physical ac-
tivities. The field will also be the center for chil-
dren from grades four to twelve inclusive. But in
addition, we hope that each church will hold an
individual Hallowe’en party of its own to see that
the small children have a specialized night of
pleasure. We found in our previous party that to
hold our anticipated midnight luncheon, it was
necessary to keep the small children up and active
until midnight. Obviously, this is not a sound or
healthful procedure, so with the cooperation of
our churches there will be scattered over the city
a series of parties for small children.

Having found in our previous Hallowe’en
party that we had little to interest the high school
boys and girls whose major interests are of a
social nature, this year we expect to.have a Hal-
lowe’en dance as our attraction for the more
socially-minded older students.

The party will start promptly at seven o’clock
and will close at midnight, except for the younger
children who will be sent
home from their individual
parties at an earlier hour.
We have found that with the
older boys and girls five
hours of entertainment and
physical activity will leave
them in a sufhciently fa-
tigued condition, so that they
have not much excess en-
ergy to use for provoking
pranks on the way home. It

A 403

404 FOR A LESS HILARIOUS HALLOI'VE'EN

is possible, too, that our
police department’s order
that children found on the
streets after one o’clock be
taken to the station house,
may help a great deal in pre—
venting after—party pranks.

As to the actual program
of the evening we have found
that building up rivalries be-
tween the various schools in
such combination activities
as football, touch football, soccer, wrestling, box-
ing, to be played off at the Hallowe’en party, is
an excellent method-of attracting the youthful
population at the lighted held.

Laying'out our program we follow the usual
procedure of breaking our areas into sections and
placing one or two leaders in charge of a section,
with a list of consecutive activities to be used,in
the section. To insure continuous performance
and interest in games of low organization and in
races, we have used the policy of distributing
small pieces of wrapped candy (at a cost of ten
pieces per cent) as an award for victory in a race
or game. The agent distributing the candy is
given to understand that losers shall be awarded
also in case of consecutive losses. In planning
for the program of the younger children there will
be mostly games of low organization, with some
special entertainment.

It is practicable and logical to select as basic
for the majOr program those activities mainly in
use on the playgrounds and school athletic fields.
For example, in addition to individual participa-
tion we have found that a specialized contest such
as an official high school football game has an
appeal for a certain group not otherwise inter-

ested, and offers oppor- .
tunity for a breathing spell
for both leaders and par-
ticipants. "

Since we are anticipat-
ing a total attendance of
about 2,500, or approxi-
mately eighty-three per
cent of our entire school
population, one of our
problems has to do with
the distribution of the
food. We have found that
forming lines frequently
causes rough-housing and

Visitors to Hamilton' Canada, look on
in astonishment when that dignified city
"steps outll for its annual night of tri-
volity and nonsense. No other occasion
catches the fancy of Hamiltonians in
the same way as does Hallowe'en, and
they indulge their fancy with a roguish
abandon! All the city is their play-
ground' and funny costumes and comic
faces are the order of the evening.
Rowdyisml senseless depredation and
property damage are eliminated.

Typical of the many Hallowe'en celebrations
which will be held this year throughout the
'country is the annual Hallowe'en Mardi Gras
at Centralia, Illinois. As a result of this popu-
lar yearly event property destruction is un-
thought of because something is planned for
every minute to engage the excess energy of
pranksters. For the past three years not a
single telephone call or complaint has come
to the Police Department. ..A mammoth'
parade with a central theme held on the
night of October 3|st marks the high point
of the observance. Drum corps and bands
add much to the atmosphere of this gala
event. and individuals and organizations of
all ltinds don costumes and male merry.

general disorder. This time
we are going to serve from
automobiles at a distance of
more than three hundred
yards from the field proper,
thus eliminating any great
uproar around the distribut-
ing source.

In our small city a party
of this size represents the
peak of participation. And to
‘ us, the engineers of this
operation, it is especially pleasing, for it offers
practice for our citizens in an all-embracing co—
operation.

And so—we are plannng for less hilariousness
but more friendly fun on a new Hallowe’enl

In one middle-western city at least eighty per

cent of the children and adults of the community '
were attracted to the Hallowe’en celebration as
participants or spectators. All of the larger civic
organizations cooperated to make the event a suc—
cess. Women’s Club members spent many days
making muslin faces which the firemen placed on
the electric lights the day before Hallowe’en and
removed the day after. These pumpkin faces.
which provided a gay setting for the parade, were
laundered immediately after the celebration and
stored away in readiness for the next season. iA
thousand children and adults marched in gay cos-
tumes, and along the line of march of the parade
were judges who handed cards to the marchers
whose costumes they felt merited further consider—
ation. Two bands and a drum corps, all local
musical groups, furnished the music. Members of
the Police Department and Boy and Girl Scout
leaders were in charge of the parade.
' Following the parade a
program of Hallowe’en
games and activities of
various kinds was staged
on an outdoor, lighted
platform erected by one
of the local business con-
cerns. Here the final judg—
ment on costumes was pro-
nounced. At about ten
o’clock the crowds dis-
persed. The expense in-
volved in this very suc-
cessful community enter—
prise was only $25.00!

That’s the Shot!

Heard 'round the world when they’re
bowling on the green at Long Beach!

UWLING 0N TIIE GREEN! There is something By 1:. \No REHBOCK
B pleasing in the very name of this line old

game. It suggests spring, verdurous land-
scapes, and care-free play. It is a cheerful, But if you wish to do justice to the game
humorous pastime, and yet, notwithstanding itself, you’ll have to do better. Younger and
its modest aspect, it lends itself to as nice better bowlers are taking to bowling on the
strategy as one may wish, and is entirely green, which is capable of more technique

worthy of the concen—
tration it receives at
the hands of experts.
"iowling on the green
has withstood the test
of time; there must be
something to the game;
let’s investigate a little.

Here on one rink we
see half a dozen players
in a huddle near the
“jack” deliberating on
how the next shot
should be played, never
arriving at a unani-
mous decision, and ab-
solutely certain to criti-
cise the shot, whether
by friend or foe, if not
made as all present
knowit should be
made! It’s not a hur-
ri’e’dgrestle's's game.
Take your time, you’re
in no one’s way! This
much, if you are out
merely for an after-
noon’s relaxation, to en—
joy the landscape and
talk about the weather.

View of a section of the
municipal bowling greens

E of the city of Long Beach
l

 

Courtmy Long Brads, Cum” Btu-""139 Club

405

406 THA T’S THE SHOT!

than you will be able to absorb for some time
after enrolling with your neighborhood lawn
bowling club. The bowl will take spin, and
draw, and follow—through. And though you
may not see the average bowlers making
themselves conspicuous demonstrating the line
points, don’t think they are not being shown!
Attend any major lawn bowling tournament
anywhere to see how well good bowlers can
bowl in close competitive play.

Bowls! The reader will have noticed that
we have written “bowls” in referring to these
tools. We are now really getting somewhere
in our exposition. In lawn bowling, the
sphere is called a “bowl,” not a ball. It will be

well to remember this.

Alley Bowling a Different Matter

In this connection, lawn bowling is some-
times mentioned as being similar to alley, or
tenpin bowling. Now, tenpin bowling is a
mighty fine sport, but it is no more like lawn
bowling than football is like baseball. In
alley bowling we have a round ball, with or
without linger holes; but the lawn bowl never
has finger holes. And further, the lawn bowl
is not round but oval; and still further, it is a
biased bowl, turned off-center so as to enable
the bowler to “draw” it around another bowl
that may be in its path to the goal, which is
that little white “jack” at the far end of the
green. So much for the difference in tools
between alley bowling and lawn bowling.

But now we come to a vastly greater dif-
ference between the two games. In alley
bowling we have one stated length, and, being
played indoors, wind resistance is of course
negligible. But in lawn bowling we have as
many different lengths as the choice of the
opposing player may offer, and since the bowl—
ing is ,out of doors, wind resistance must be
taken into account. A head wind will hold
your bowl very noticeably, and a tail wind
will speed it up; a cross—wind depending from
which side, will either give the bowl an

enormous sweep toward the goal, or send'it-

almost straight, very nearly offsetting the
natural draw of the bowl. '

There is still another vital difference be-
tween alley bowling and lawn bowling. In
alley bowling speed is an essential; but in
lawn bowling, while a fast one is alwaysin
order when you are hopelessly blocked to the

goal, and therefore choose to “kill” the end,
the perfection of lawn bowling lies in the fine
touch, the “feel of the green” which enables
one correctly to size up the exact length to
that little white jack. To sum up, in alley
bowling you aim to knock something down;
in lawn bowling you aim to roll up to some-
thing.

But to continue with our lawn bowling, now
once we have found the length to that little
white jack, and have placed one or two bowls
nicely close to it, our next concern is to protect
those close ones by properly placed position
shots either in front of the jack, on behind it.
Thereby we make it hard for our opponent to
displace the jack and our close ones next to it;
but if by reason of a well-directed shot our
opponent should displace it, then, by our hav-
ing placed some position bowls where they
should be, we will at least have prevented a
big score against us.

So it seems there is more to lawn bowling
than is apparent at first glance. In fact, the
sport looks so easy to beginners and onlookers
that, should they enroll, slipshod methods of
learning must be guarded against. The Ency-.
clopedia Britannica has several pages devoted
to “Bowls.” Anyone interested in a thorough
exposition of lawn bowling is referred to it.

It is well known that the poets of old loved
to refer to lawn bowling, or bowling on the
green. And not long ago we ran across a
sixteenth century water color captioned “Lawn
Bowling in Front of a Village Inn.” There
was the little white jack in the foreground
with several players bending over it and watch—
ing the approach of a bowl from the other end
of the green. Obviously " the i game hasn’t
changed any fundamentally. Sir Francis
Drake, playing his favorite position, “Lead”
or “Skip,” would feel right at home on a
twentieth century green.

A Last Word

When you, as a casual spectatOr, are
watching a lawn bowler of some year’s ex- ‘
perience getting no closer than a couple of
feet or a yard to the jack, when at tenpins or
billiards you have seen the same man make his
shots with consistent accuracy, don’t be misled
as to the reason. If you can visualize a tenpin
alley, or a billiard table the size of a bowling
green, namely, one hundred and twenty feet

(Continued on page 426)

Michigan Goes into Action

And as a result, in cities all over
the state delinquency is vigorously
corn bated with recreational weapons!

By WILLIAM G. ROBINSON

District Representative
National Recreation Association

UBLIC SUPPORT Of recreation from local tax
budgets has been increasing again in Michi-
gan. One Of the factors in the increase was
the recognition Of the place, in any well thought
out plan Of crime prevention, Of facilities and
guidance for leisure hours. With the assistance Of

-the Michigan Delinquency Information Service.

three years ago the Federal Works Progress Ad-
ministration made studies Of the areas Of greatest
juvenile delinquency in ten cities in the state. A
number of the cities studied took action to remedy
conditions. They realized the value Of bringing
impressionable boys and girls under the healthy,
constructive environment Of playgrounds and rec-
reation centers, and Of developing interest and
skills for leisure. Demands for an increased pub-
lic recreation program resulted.

In Monroe, a Youth Council was formed after
the delinquency study was made. This Council
requested an appropriation from the City Coun-
cil, made a study and report at the request Of the
Mayor, developed popular support and was re-
warded by an appropriation Of $8,000 in the bud—
get effective July I, 1938. This will be spent
through a Recreation Commission Of six members
Of the Board Of Education, two members Of the
City Council and an additional citizen at large
chosen by each group. With the generous use Of
school facilities and the continuation Of a $1,800
budget from the Board of Education which has
been spent on summer playgrounds heretofore, a
community-wide, year—round program is assured.

In Battle Creek, _ joint action by the City Rec-
reation Department, the Kellogg Foundation and
the Exchange Club has resulted in the purchase Of
play areas in two crowded sections Of the city
which had been without‘ Such facilities, and in
their equipment and supervision. In addition, the

 

Courtesy Austin, Texas, Department of Recreation

ln fighting iuvenile delinquency
horseshoes are .«invaluable allies

Kellogg Foundation has within the past year built
two indoor swimming pOOls at school buildings,
and has provided funds for their operation year

_.1'Ound, after school and evenings, as well as dur-

ing school hours.

The development in Flint by which the facili-
ties Of twenty-four schools, indOors and out, have
been opened for community use under experi-
enced leadership, with funds from the Mott Foun-
dation, are the most spectacular in the state. It is
worth noting that the original program started in
three or four schools in districts where the de-
linquency study showed most need, and that it was
this appeal which first aroused the interest Of the
Foundation It was soon realized that the citi-
zen-building values Of such a varied recreation
program including athletics, music, drama and
crafts, were not confined tO any One section Of the
city, and the program is now city-wide. It is car—
rietl on under the Board Of Education and is in
addition to a city park department program which
includes two community center buildings and
twelve playfields.

(Continued on page 426)

407

Homemakers' Clubs

makers’ Clubs were inherit-

ed from the Recreation Di-
vision of the Works Progress
Administration and are now being directed by the
city Recreation Department. The clubs were or-
ganized by sending out workers to call on neigh-
borhood women whose names were secured from
relief rolls. From fifteen to twenty-five women
were enrolled in each club, and fire stations, com-
munity halls, school buildings and homes were
used for meetings. A place near by or within
walking distance was the first requisite.

Clubs have been meeting once a week for the
past three years and many experiments have been
tried with gratifying success. Today abbut six
hundred women are enrolled in thirty-three clubs.
VVPA supervisors each have five clubs and meet
regularly with them. Weekly stafic meetings are
held for these sUpervisors at which they talk
things over with the city recreation director, plan
for the future, and receive lesson sheets. Clubs
have their own ofiicers, and a simple business
meeting is conducted at each meeting. Mimeo-
graphed sheets dealing with one of four subjects
-—health, food, child training and home beautifica-
tion—are prepared in advance by the Recreation
Department, each-woman receiving one of these
lessons. This is read and discussed at the meeting,
and members are asked to contribute any added
information they choose from their experiences.
The lessons are kept by the members and arrang-
ed in book form so that in a short time they have
a store of helpful suggestions.

I N LANSING, Michigan, Home-

Social Features

In many clubs a few games are played. Most
of the clubs enjoy sewing and quilting. At least
two thousand quilts have been made, largely from
scraps donated by the WPA sewing project.
These quilts are given to their own club members
or to friends in need as the club chooses. Many
other useful articles for the
home have also been made,
such as children’s dresses.
mittens, table runners and
pillow cases.

Twice a month about two
hundred members — or all

408

By MRS. H. R. HARVEY

Director of Recreation
Lansing. Michigan

"Is this recreation? Not perhaps as we
have been accustomed to thinking of it.
but if we actually mean that recreation
brings new life and hope and inspiration
to people, we can thinlc of no better
place to start than with our mothers.”

who can manage bus fare—con-
gregate in a community hall for
a general meeting. An interest-
ing speaker is secured to talk on
something vitally pertaining to the women’s every-
day life. Short skits, songs or other kinds of en-
tertainments are provided by the club members
themselves. Group songs or games are followed
by light refreshments. Coffee is furnished, and
each member brings her own sandwiches or
cookies.

Is It Worth While?

What do we accomplish? So many things that
we feel this is one of the Department’s most

worthwhile projects. Unless you have been really _

“down and out,” it is difficult to realize how much
“just getting together” means to pe0ple. Many
remarkable stories could be told of the rehabili-

tation of these women who were almost crushed ‘

by the strain of struggling with well-nigh impos-
sible home conditions and who found new life and
interest in the companionship and friendship'of
neighbors. A smile and a friendly hand are of in-
estimable value to anyone, but especially to people
who have had any misfortunes. The unpreten-
tious educational program is absorbed week by
week, and it is only at the end of a period of time
that one suddenly realizes that something has been
accomplished, that homes do look a little better,
and that mothers are using a bit more intelligence
in feeding and caring for the children.

“7110 can judge the benefits enjoyed by women .

who create and make things with their own
hands? If it is true that we learn by doing, then
the quilts and art work that these women have
made definitely contribute not only to their hap—
piness but also to their education. As their skill in-
creases, the clubs are looking forward to more?
beautiful and satisfying work. Many articles can}
be made with native materials, and as the quality 3
of work improves a market may be secured for

these finished products, which 

will mean a source of added‘

income. Andlbeyond this is,

the opportunity for social.
' life and companionship

which the clubs make pos-
sible.

—4-— “he—- _ _ _

A New Deal tor Cards

lengths, and behavior studies, practically every-
thing a person eats, hears, does, or thinks is
analyzed as to whether it is good, bad or indif-

IN THIS SCIENTIFIC age of vitamins, wave

ferent for him or society.

Such diligence on the part of our scientists has
uncovered such things as cod liver oil—and spin-
ach. But occasionally they lind that something we
already like is good for all of us.

In the field of recreation new light has recently
been turned on the value of playing cards and
card games. It appears possible, in this regard,
that many of us recreation directors haven’t
played our hands to the fullest extent.

The fact that playing cards have definite educa-
tional and social aspects is not a new discovery,
however. Rather, it is something rediscovered.

Such an eminent scholar as Dr. Samuel John-
son observed two centuries ago that “card playing
is very useful in life; it generates kindness and
consolidates society.” '

The comparatively recent recognition ' of the
recreational values of playing cards has been slow
getting under way mainly because many people
have carelessly dismissed
cards as “time-killers,”
never bothering to analyze
the appeal and psychology
of card playing. Moreover,
in some sections of the
country people persist in
associating cards with
gambling despite the fact
that the greatest propor-
tion of the nation’s card
players play only for fun,

Two cards trom a fifteenth
century deck in the collec-
tion of Melbert B. Cary ot
New York. Playing cards
appeared in Europe early
in the tourteenth century.
It is thought that soldiers
returning from the Cru-
sades brought them back
with them from the East.

By JAMES V. MULHOLLAND

Director of Recreation
Department of Parks
New York City

and that gambling can just as readily be as-
sociated with baseball, football and other sports.
The real truth of the matter is that in today’s
highly mechanized and integrated society card
playing can be an invaluable safety valve. Dr.
Henry C. Link, in The Return to Religion * not
only urges the use of cards for both young and
old as personality builders but declares “children
should be taught to play bridge at an early age."
The card players in this country constitute a
cross-section of the population, and because of
their universal appeal and acceptance, cards easily
{it into the recreational program. It is reliably
estimated that there are twenty million bridge

 

* The Macmillan Company, 1937.
(Continued on page 428)

 

Cincinnati’s New Sperts Field \

FOR A NUMBER of years

Commission of Cincin-
nati has carried forward its
plans for the development of
the Airport Sports Field in
the face of almost insupera-
ble difficulties. In addition to
criticism and skepticism on
the part of the public, the
Commission has had to con-
front all the technical diffi-
culties involved, not the least
of which was the necessity of raising thirty acres
of land two feet in the air.

In constructing the field the Commission has
had a fourteen—point program in mind as its ob-
jective. They are as follows:

I. To provide adults with the game of their
choice, and to provide recreation in the cafe-
teria'style, where each one may select what
he wants.

To provide a large recreation field, easily ac-

cessible to the entire city. The Airport rec-

reation field provides auto parking for thou-
sands of cars; the Mt.‘ Washington bus stops
at the very center of the sports field; the
street cars stop within a short distance. An
incline completed during the past week now
enables the pedestrian to get from the bus
stop on Beechmont to the lower level with ease.

3. To provide a place where the whole family

may play together. '

4. To provide groups such as neighborhood,
lodge, church, labor union and social organi-
zations with such abundance of accommoda-
tions and such variety of activities as to in-
sure a delightful holiday.

. To provide the young men and young women
with a place where they may play games to-
gether, where there are sports suitable for
mixed groups, and where the emphasis is on
skill rather than strength.

6. To provide games suitable to those of .ad-
vanced age. ,

. To provide a place where it is not necessary

go

U1

\3

for the player to await his turn, where there!"
are enough facilities "and equipment to take

,care of everyone simultaneously.

410

A few weeks ago. with little publicity,
the Public Recreation the Public Recreation Commission of
Cincinnati. Ohio' opened the Airport
Sports Field which had been under
construction for several years. Although
still incomplete and lacking a number
of necessary facilities. it has already 9. T0 pI‘OVidea place Where
made an important place for itself. The
fourteen point program which the Com-
mission has had in mind throughout the
development of the center will be of

interest to other communities planning ,
extensive deveIOpments of this type. 10- To carry on Sports 1“ a

8. To provide for parents
who want to play games
while their children are

children’s playground.

one can escape the “spec-
tator” and avoid “spec-
tatoritis” because the em-
phasis is on participation.

manner which will give

emphasis to the whole-

some good times together rather than to winning
a game.

I I. To create a great sports center for adults that
will be self-liquidating, that is that will pay
its own cost of operation.

12. To provide play for everyone in an environ-
ment of beauty.

I 3. To provide an absolutely safe place for bi-
cyclists. At no point along the three- and a
half miles of bicycle trails is there any occa—
sion for a bicyclist to come in contact with
motor vehicles.

I4. To provide night lighting for a sports field
large enough to accommodate all those who
desire to play in the cool of the evening.

At the Airport Sports Field the recreational
facilities are laid out in the midst of a two-hun-
dred acre meadow, with open skies, long vistas
and forested hills in sight at all times. Already
there are fifteen different sports on the alpha-
betical bill of fare with ten or fifteen more to be
added in the near future. These include archery,
badminton, baseball, bicycling, children’s play-
ground, gardening, golf driving, horseshoe, pic-
nicking, pony rides, softball, table tennis, lawn
tennis and volley ball.

Besides serving the fourteen purposes, there
are several by-products or subsidiary purposes of
the Airport Sports Field. The children’s play-
ground is serving a large district in the vicinity
heretofore'unserved, because of the long, thin line

.of the population along Columbia Avenue. An—

other by-product has been the large production
of garden products by the several hundred com-
munity gardeners. During all of the years that

(Continued on page 428)

being taken care of at a '

 

Toy Shops on Wheels

Recreational therapy adds much to the enjoyment of
life for physically handicapped children of Detroit

HE DEPARTMENT OF RECREATION of Detroit

has taken steps toward solving the problem of

entertaining underprivileged and handicapped
children in settlement houses, orphanages, and
hospitals of Detroit.

Each morning a toy cart is wheeled into the
children’s wards of the various hospitals and
inStitutions, and those who have been f‘good
little boys and girls” are allowed to choose
from the cart-load of bright-colored game
blocks, story books, dolls, puzzles, and other
toys, made by the VVPA Toy Project of
Detroit.

Under the supervision of Commissioner C.
- E. Brewer of the Department of Recreation,
and with the financial aid of the Children’s
Fund of Michigan, the WPA Toy Project
which started in September, 1936, has served
a real need in the community by making
special types of toys to fit the needs of the
hospitalized child. Invalid trays, wooden book
covers, as well as soft little hand puppets,
bunnies, donkeys, and clowns, tempt the little
sufferers to develop coordination, and to bring
afflicted arms or hands into use. Interesting
educational toys, bright in color, help keep
minds busy and alert; wheelbarrows loaded
with blue, yellow and red blocks increase
confidence in walking and .assist unsteady little
feet. And there are spastic checker boards,
with tall checkers slipped into groves which
hold them steady so that the child with un-
sure lingers may enjoy the game.

In conjunction with the Toy Project the
Recreation Department . has successfully
carried out a program of recreational therapy
begun in the winter of 1935 in the Children’s
Hospital, whereby trained leaders are em-
ployed to assist in handicraft, story—telling,
and quiet games in the sick room. Although
realizing, several years before, the need of
such service to the physically handicapped
child, the Recreation Department was not in a
position to embark on such a program until
1935, when many eager and willing workers
volunteered their services, and so the first

work for the hospitalized child was started.

Most of the workers at that time, however,
were untrained, and it was soon decided to
adopt a short training course from which
leaders could be chosen for the various institu-
tions. Two leaders were selected and sent first
to the Children’s Hospital, where they started
with a story hour, going from one cubical to
another, entertaining four children at a time.
The demand on their time was so great that
two more leaders were immediately assigned,
and handicraft and games were added to the
program.

The work progressed so rapidly during the
first six months that Miss Margaret Rodgers,
Superintendent of the Children’s Hospital,
asked the Recreation Department to furnish
additional leaders for the clinic. Leaders took
over the new work eagerly. Besides furnishing
toys already made by the Toy Project, they
gave the children scissors and bright—colored
paper to make their own toys. Nurses and
leaders sent out appeals for magazines, Christ—
mas cards, attractive pictures, etc. Kinder—
garten craft and scrap books were started, and
the children took great pride in displaying
bright-colored paper chains, pictures, or
puzzles they had made themselves. At the
present time there are six leaders at the clinic
in the Children’s Hospital, who rotate from
the hospital wards to the skin and eye clinic
and to the medical clinic. They plan parties,
movies and musical programs, thereby speed-
ing the timeifor the little sick children and
keeping them interested and happy.

In 1936 a leader was sent to Grace Hospital
where men and women, as well as children,
were supplied with useful recreational hobbies.
Older girls and women were taught to knit,
crochet, and make quilt tops, curtain tie backs,
place mats, and small rugs. Men and boys
learned leather tooling and cppper work.
Games were also introduced for the grown-up
patients. One of these, hospital golf, has be-
come very popular with the men and boys.

(Continued on page 430)
411

Wood mere Plays

URING the past few
decades has come
a realization that
mental disease can be
divided roughly into
two general classifications:
those individuals suffering
from organic disturbances, and
those suffering from disorders
that are largely functional in
nature. In this first group, of
course, medical treatment is
all important, whereas in the
case of individuals suffering
from functional disorders, the
treatment is primarily one of
social adjustment. Recreation can therefore play
a very important part in assisting in the adjust—
ment of these individuals and teaching them to
live together, and as such, is of vital importance
in any state hospital program.

Prior to the advent of the fall of 1937, al-
though various ‘attempts had been made to ex-
pand it, the recreational program of the Evans-
ville State Hospital largely followed that of the
commOnly accepted practice in many state hos-
pitals in Indiana and other mid-western states——
namely, that of requiring passive participation in
large group activities. Each Tuesday there was a
general hospital dance at which there was both
round and square dancing; every Friday during

the winter season the hospital theater presented a ~

feature motion picture and two short subjects,
and occasionally there were special programs by
community groups, treats, picnics, Christmas
trips to town by patients and activities of similar
nature. This, then, was almost the entire soope of
our recreational activities.

In the fall of 1937 it was decided to try to
broaden this program of activity, and it is with
these experiences that this article has to deal.
Since it was felt that any recreational program
should be based upon the desires and needs of the
patients, a social committee of patients was
formed to meet weekly to discuss and plan the
social program. The number of patients on this
committee has varied during the period, but
ranged from six to twelve members depending
upon the number furloughed from the hospital.

412

The story of an experiment in recreation
at the Evansville, Indiana, State Hospital

By WILLIAM C. MURPHY

The therapeutic values of recreation
for mental patients have come to be
recognized as very significant in the
social adiustment of these patients.
Mr. Murphy. who is psychologist at
the Evansville' Indiana' State Hospital'
writes of the excellent results secur-
ed from an experiment which was
carried on in that institution.

It was found, however,
that a committee of
-.twelve members proved
rather unwieldy and
that the optimum num-
ber varied between six and
eight. The members were se-
lected upon two bases: those
patients who clearly demon-
strated unusual ability along
social lines, and, as such, could
offer valuable suggestions and
do much of the work in car-
rying through to completion
-the proposed activities, and a

, second group, who, although
theycould offer little, would nevertheless derive
great benefit and therapeutic value from the social
contacts made. This second group was comprised
almost entirely of young schizophrenics. The
work of the committee was not only to plan, but
to carry out their plans, and upon the occasions of
parties or other social activities each volunteered
to carry out certain portions of the general work

to be done.

A Dancing Class Is Organized

We, approached various recreational activities
with hesitancy, since we were warned on all sides
that psychotic patients simply could not be enroll-
ed in many of our proposed activities. This fa-
talistic attitude was found to be erroneous. A
careful analysis of our regular Tuesday night
dances indicated that only a small number of
patients were participating actively, although a
large number attended. This was largely the result
of a compulsory attendance rule on the women’s
wards and of the fact only a few of the patients
knew how to dance. An actual count showed that
only twenty to twenty-four patients were danc-
ing the round dances and about the same number,
but frequently different patients, were engaging
in the square dances.

As a result of this study one of our first steps
was to form a social dancing class, and despite
the fact that we desired to keep the enrollment
down to fifteen persons per session we were
forced to expand it to twenty—five. Even with this
added number, and with the frequent vacancies

\

f/VOODMERE PLAYS 413

resulting from patients returning to their homes,
there has always been a long waiting list. There
has been so great a demand that it is probable
that in the fall we will inaugurate classes in tap
and folk dancing as well. Largely as a result of
the dancing class instruction the number partici-
pating actively at our regular dances has more

than doubled.

A Dramatic Club Proves POpular

Several of the patients requested the“ opening
of a dramatics club, and at the first of the year
this class was started under a WPA teacher. En-
rollment in this group was necessarily limited and
soon was Completely filled. We have had very
little difficulty in continuing the group, and there
have usually been sufficient applicants to keep it
at full membership. Although principally com-
posed of the younger age group of patients, we
have nevertheless had a considerable sprinkling of
older persons. It was early found, however, that
because of constant changes in the group pers-
sonnel it was almost impossible to try to-present
even one-act plays, since the participants might
leave for home during the period of rehearsal.
Then, too, many of the persons most interested,
and to whom the experience would prove of
greatest therapeutic value, found it difficult to
memorize long parts. Consequently we turned to
short, short plays or “black-outs” as they were
technically known, which would require only a
day or two for rehearsal. Pantomimes and mono-
logues proved of great enjoyment to the hospital
audience. In all, the group presented three enter-
tainments over a period of five months, all of
which have been received very favorably by the
audience. Dramatics have proved so valuable as a
form of recreational therapy at our hospital that
it is without hesitancy that we place it on our
recreational program for
the next year.

Substitutes for Dancing-

As a result of the SUrvey
made of the regular dances
and the discovery that only
a small group of patients
were participating actively,
it was decided to lessen the
frequency of the dances
and hold them every other
week rather than each week.
Various activities were

"In hospitals for the mentally ill a ,highly
diversified program of recreational activi-
ties is now considered a most important
factor of rehabilitation, as well as an indis-
perisable condition to a good morale so
necessary to the effective functioning of all
forms of physio- and psycho-therapy. While
for normals recreation is accepted as a most
necessary part of a balanced regimen of
work. rest and play, it is even more neces-
sary for the mentally sick because ofthe com-
paratively fewer outlets they can open and
develop for pleasurable and constructive ac-
tivity."—Jobn Eisele Davis in Principles
and Practice of Recreational Therapy.

planned as substitutes. Bingo parties were found
to be a very popular form of entertainment after.
the group had been taught how to play, and a
very large group of active participants attended
each of the parties. However, to interest an even
larger group and to break the monotony of long
periods of play some other form of entertainment
was usually provided in addition at each of these
sessions. Three community sings were held. A
spelling bee proved of interest and later, due to
popular demand, a second was held. A cyphering
bee was suggested by a number of the patients,
but due to lack of time, was never tried. An ama-
teur night was held, and as a result of an hour of
very interesting impromptu acts a more pretentious
show was staged, the first Woodmere Revue.

In addition to the planned activities, an occa-
sional “Game Night” provided much pleasure for
the group. Games of all types were supplied and
tables were set up for each. The individual was
permitted to play any game he might desire, and

' at any time to circulate to anotlier table. At vari-

ous times we have held tournaments in some of
the more popular games to determine the hospital
“champion.” Through these various types of ac-
tivities it has been possible to reach a much larger
group than through our former weekly dances.

Summer Activities

At the time of writing this article' the Social ‘
Committee is hard at work making plans for the
summer season. It has been officially decided to
continue the dancing class and the dramatics class
through the summer. In addition, the Committee'
feels there is sufficient interest evidenced on the
Wards to open a class in Bridge, and one in ten-
nis. It has also recommended that a soft ball
team for men be formed and games with outside
teams scheduled. Plans are also being made for
variety programs to be held
at frequent intervals in an
outdoor theater.

Principles Evolved from
Experience

Out of our experiment-
ing, and experimenting it
has been, several definite
principles have evolved
which we feel are vital for
a successful recreational
program.

(Continued on page 430)

More Songs for More Singing

A NO’I‘HER LEAFLET of songs, Set III of Songs;

for Informal Singing, has been issued by

the National Recreation Association. Like
Sets I and II of this series, it contains the melo-
dies as well as the words of songs that have been
loved and sung with keen pleasure by countless
numbers of people, are easily learned and long
remembered, and yet will be for many people as
new and fresh as the Seven Dwarfs’ “Heigh, Ho”
was when they first sang it in our theaters. Among
these are three chanteys, a fine cowboy song, a
Riddle song from the mountains of Kentucky, a
jolly ballad, “Old Bang ’em,” from Virginia, and
two hiking songs. A couple of Czech dance songs
add still further to the gaiety of the collection,
and a Spanish Vagabond’s song to its beauty.

Like its preceding sets, this one includes some
Rounds, two of them for the camp fire and an-
other the more familiar “Come, follow me . . .
to the greenwood tree!” But unlike them it con-
tains also some descants to familiar songs, and
several 4-part songs (soprano, alto, tenor, bass)
including a Spiritual, some other brightly ar-
ranged folk songs, and a stirring Bach Chorale.
So it offers a happy introduction to, or continu-
ance of, part-singing as well as some more unison
singing.

The Association has for many years provided
material for community singing through its leaflet,
Community Songs. This contains only the words
of songs, of songs already lastineg familiar
among the American people everywhere. The
need for more good songs for the purpose, as
easy to learn and lastineg lovable as most of
those others, caused the making of the first set of
Songs for Informal Singing,
containing necessarily the
melodies as well as the words.

art, they want also to get more fully and deeply
into it. So, included in the second set, among a
large number of folk songs, were some bigger
songs, great yet simple songs by great compos-
ers. One of these, “Where’er You Walk,” by
Handel, has become especially beloved by all sorts
of recreational groups of young people and adults
who have only recently sung it for the first time.
It is like swimming in the sea after having en-
joyed only the local pond or stream.

Another way to get more fully and deeply into
music is through part-singing. Set III provides
for this in interesting ways. The Rounds are
jolly, easy to sing and yet make pleasant har-
mony. Each descant or counter-melody, sung by
only a few treble voices while all the rest of the
group have the very easy part of singing the fa-
miliar tune, places everyone within the resulting
How of harmony or counter-point. A number of
the unison songs are such as suggests harmonic
parts that many a group could “make up” spon-
taneously. And the four-part songs have been
chosen and designed to have as much keen inter-
est and imagination throughout the parts as we
enjoy in a good, live folk-tune. The Bach Chorale,
taken from the Christmas Oratorio, is one of the
simpler ones but, along with the stirring instru—
mental interludes between its phrases, it reaches
toward utmost greatness of spirit and expression.

With such music-making carried on under
inviting leadership, the steps from ordinary
community singing to choral singing and, if
desired, to the formation of a chorus, should
be readily made. Then as the group, led by
enthusiasm over these initial experiences, goes

forward with a will to sing

better and better and to

This found such wide use
that a second set was pre-
pared. Guiding the making of
this one was the belief that
people who come to love to
sing songs like those in
Set I invite them to do
want not only more and
more such experience and
more and more such songs,
but, as in any other sport or

414

A. D. Zanzig of the National Recreation
Association tells here of the new song
leaflet just off the press. Set III of Songs
for Informal Singing is a collection
of twenty-six songsI including descants.
rounds and choruses. Among them are
descants to such familiar songs as

"America the Beautiful." "Believe Me It
All Those Endearing Young Charms.’I and
"Old Folks at Home." "Children's Grace."
"Listen to the Laml:>s.'l "Over HillI Over
Dale." "Morning Hymn." and "Rolling
Home" are among the other songs incor-
porated in this interesting collection.

explore other such music,
it will have before it the
whole bright, varied world
of first-rate choral music.

The cost of this Set III,
as of the other sets of
Songs for Informal Singing,
is $.10 per single copy or
$7.50 per 100 copies when
50 or more copies are pur-
chased.

WORLD AT' PLAY

 

 

THE Walbridge
Park Shelter House
is the second new

The Newest Recreation
Building in Toledo

building to be com—‘

pleted in Toledo, Ohio, within two' years,
bringing the total number of community
buildings in .the city to nine. Constructed as
a city WPA project, the newest building is
similar in design to the Wilson Park Shelter
House completed in 1936. It was constructed
at a cost of $42,000, the city supplying all
materials while VVPA furnished labor. Built
of ruble stone from the city quarry, the struc-
ture is beautifully situated on a site overlook-
ing the river and has a veranda facing the
river bank. It is one story high and measures
100 x 42 feet. Interior walls are of brick
lining; floors and base are of terrazo, with the
ceiling masonite. The roofing consists of
wooden shingles. A wood-burning fireplace is
an attractive feature.

Included in one wing of the building is a
community kitchen, boiler room and lavatory.
The other wing contains living quarters for
the caretaker, a lavatory and an assembly
room seating 500 persons. The large recreation
room measures 33 x 60 feet. The Division of
Recreation permits free use of the house’s
facilities for all types of social functions such
as dances, dinners and weddings. A small fee
is charged for the use of tableware and the
piano.

THROUGH the

generosity of indus-
trial lirms of Hamil-
ton, Canada, Bird

Playground, deserted and overgrown with
weeds for several years because of lack of
funds for its operation, is again seeing service
this year. Over $400 was collected from four-
teen industries, and the money was turned
over to the Playground Commission. Men
were put to work clearing out the weeds and
debris; swings and play devices were recon-
ditioned and painted, and the Commission
arranged to provide leadership.

Deserted Recreation
Field Restored

LAST year accord-
ing to the August 27
issue of School and
Society there was
founded in England a Five Million Club which
now has twenty thousand members. The
main objective of the group is to focus popular
attention on the fact that in spite of all that
has been done by progressive local authorities
and by the National Playing Fields Associa—
tion, there are still at least five million boys
and girls in England and Wales between the
ages of three and sixteen, out of a total num-
ber of 8,250,000 who have no public recreation
ground within reasonable walking distance
of their homes, to provide the National Playing
Fields ,Association with an annual income

415

England’s Five
Million Club

 

416 WORLD AT PLAY

which it may spend in consultation with the
officers of the club, on the acquisition and
equipment of playgrounds for children.

The existing membership has been recruited
almost entirely from the 2,500 schools in
England and \Vales which are described as
“privileged” schools, and which have at least
one playing field of their own. Boys and girls
were invited to pay a membership fee of 4d.
or 6d. a term. The appeal has met with such
success that in some cases as many as 82 per
cent of the pupils in a school have joined the
group. It is now proposed to bring within its
membership undergraduates at the universities
of England and Wales, members of sports

clubs and motorists. '

Westchester County Promotes Sports—The
annual report submitted to the Westchester
County Recreation Commission by the County
Supervisor of Parks shows badminton, basket—
ball and track and field events close competi—
tors in the athletic program. Basketball topped
badminton and track and field for spectator
attendance, with audiences totaling almost
6,000 at seven tournaments. Five swimming
meets attracted 1,490 participants, with an
estimated gallery of 4,850 looking on. Over
1,400 tennis fans watched 117 players in two
staged matches. No county-sponsored sport,
however, took such a spectacular leap into
popularity as did softball. E. Dana Caulkins,
Superintendent of Recreation for the Commis-
sion, commenting on the report, emphasized
the importance of cooperation on the part of
local recreation executives who conduct local
and district events. He pointed out that 1,000
members of committees .and 800 to 1,000
games officials—80 to 90 per cent of whom

gave their services—cooperated to make the
sports program a success.

Children’s Library Movement in Sydney,
Australia—Three libraries of Sydney, Austra—
lia, have become community centers. After
school each day the younger children come
to the centers to read and borrow books, to
enjoy arts and crafts, and to listen to st0ries.
In the evening the older boys and girls attend
to read, study or play. Music is taught them,
folk dancing and eurhythmics are enjoyed, and
other cultural opportunities are offered. In
one center there is a percussion band and in

another a pipe band on the Indian model for
which bamboos were sent from India. In con-
nection VVllh one of the libraries there is an
open air theater.

Unique Money Raising Plan—At Schuyler,
Nebraska, an unusual method of obtaining
sponsor contribution has been put into opera-
tion. Here the city contributed all available
funds to buy a site for a municipal park. To
obtain funds for improvements, the city
officials leased the proposed pavilion to the
American Legion which paid rent before con—
struction was started. When the building was
completed the Legion used it for dances over
the term of their lease, making a profit on their
investment. A citizens’ committee was then
organized which took over a new lease on the
building for the purpose of operating public
dances. They agreed with the city that they
would work without pay on the condition that
all profits from operating the dances would be
turned into a fund to pay for additional im-
provements to the park. These funds have
kept one project after another operating until
at the present time in addition to the pavilion
the city now has a swimming pool and bath—
house. The entire tract is being beautiiied and
provision is being made for outdoor sports
such as golf, tennis, baseball and a children’s
playground.

At the Congress for Work and Joy——A
Congress for Work and Joy opened in Rome,-
Italy, on june 26th and closed at Lake Como
'one week later on July lst, 19.38. Over fifty
nations were represented by their- citizens.
From Germany came 200 delegates, from
Roumania 30. Among the five citizens of the
United States present were Gustavus T. Kirby,
Emma Howe and Ruth McIntyre. There was
a special performance of the opera /’ida, given
in one of the many traveling theatres of Italy.
Over 10,000 Italian boys and girls gave an
athletic and calisthenic drill. There were
visits to the reclaimed Pontine Marshes,
Florence, Milan, and the Northern Italian
lakes. In the Boboli Gardens at Florence,
Italy the chorus consisted of fifteen hundred
and the orchestra of one hundred and fifty. The
proceedings, resolutions and recommendations
of the study sessions will be published later.
Several speakers pointed out that what is a

 

0

WORLD AT PL.-IV 417

good and proper method of recreation in one
conntry is not necessarily good for another.

City Forest Areasa—E. W. Tinker, Assistant
Chief of the Federal Forest Service, urges
the establishment of community forests in
American cities, pointing out that while the
plan has been successfully utilized in European
cities for many years it is comparatively new
in this country.

Danville, New Hampshire, has operated 77
acres of forest land almost from its settlement
in the 1760’s. More than a thousand towns
and counties in the United States, accOrding
to Mr. Tinker, have municipal or county
forests. Of these Ohio lists 21 municipalities
and Pennsylvania 31. Chicago is notable
among midwestern cities for having planned
a Greenbelt. Cook County administers the
33,000 acres of forests and recreational land
which now encircle the city. Newington, New
Hampshire, has a town forest of 112 acres.
During the past fifty years timber sales have
helped to pay for a library, build a new school

house and pay off a town debt. ‘Westiield, '

Massachusetts, has 5,000 acres of land for a
forest in which 750,000 trees have been planted,
and a return of $20,000 a year is expected
eventually.

States which have enacted legislation
authorizing acquisition of community forests
include New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts,
New Hampshire, Vermont, Pennsylvania,
Indiana, Ohio, \Visconsin, Michigan, Minne—
sota, Illinois, Nebraska and New Mexico.

Safety in Bicycling—The Department of
Parks of New York. City has’ issued a
pamphlet entitled “Program of Proposed
Facilities for Bicycling” which outlines the
location of all bicycling paths-proposed for
the immediate future. The pamphlet states
that the Park Department is planning more
than fifty miles of additional paths exclusively
for bicyclists throughout the five boroughs.
All paths will be surfaced with permanent
materials so as to require as little mainten-
ance as possible. They will be wide enough to
permit two lanes in each direction; grade
crossings at park drives will be protected with
traffic lights and definite barriers placed, if
necessary, to prevent careless riders from
starting across at high speed, While at grade

665m it_

-.

MORTSIQUJB

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of
Equipment for all Sports

THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, Inc.
JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., CINCINNATI, omo

 

crossings of pedestrian paths warning signs
will be placed for both pedestrians and
cyclists.

Some interesting figures are quoted in the
pamphlet. In 1899 bicycle sales totaled
1,089,000. From this figure 'they_ dropped
steadily to a low of 180,000 in 1932. Since
1933, however, sales have been rapidly on the
increase until last year when they totaled

1,300,000, an all time high.

Roller Skating Program—The third floor of
the Ford assembling plant in Des Moines,
Iowa, has been leased by the Recreation De-
partment for a year at $75.00 a month, includ-
ing light, heat and water. The department has
turned the floor space of 66,000 square feet into
a skating area and has purchased 150 pairs of
skates which are rented for ten cents an
evening. The space is divided into three
areas—a children’s lane, a fancy and speed-
skating lane, and a regular skating circle. The
average weekly attendance is 3,000. One
worker is employed by the department to
serve as supervisor and ten \V’PA leaders
assist with the program.

418

Minimum Space Required, 32 inches by 20 feet

MODERN SHUFFLE BOARD GAME 5515/
MALABLE CAST IRON - WHITE PLATED 1

ONE SET consusrs OF 4- PUSH CUES and
6 DISC (3 A's‘ and 3 5'5)

PRICE il2.°° per set , Delivered

CURVED FRONT GIVES
POSITIVE CONTROL IN

SHOOTING THE Disc.
BRASS PIVOT.

    
  
   
        
 
  

 
 

2 or 3
wooden sets

(URVED BACK FOR
THE PURPOSE or
PLACING THE DISC
ON STARTING LINE.

  

CHAS. H.WILSO Oakland,Calif'.

|4l7 ' 80th. Ave.

 

 

A Welcome to New Citizens—In Highland
Park, Michigan, the Recreation Commission
conducts a Citizenship School in cooperation
with the School Board and city government.
Last Spring nearly two hundred new American
citizens were given their diplomas in a setting
of patriotic decoration at Hackett Field
House. The Commissioner of Immigration,
James L. Houghteling from Washington,
Judge Bushnell of the Michigan Supreme
Court and other dignitaries, friends and well-
wishers came to honor the graduates.

Pittsburgh Votes on Bond Issue for Recrea-
tion—On August 2 the citizens of Pittsburgh
voted favorably on a bond issue of $8,000,000,
of which $825,000 will be allocated for recrea-
tion in parks and playgrounds. With the funds
available many improvements will be made
and new recreation buildings and swimming
pools will be built.

Tips to Fishermen—The Department of
Public Recreation of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania,
has issued a bulletin giving the location of trout
streams, bass waters, sunfish and catfish
streams, and the haunts of the yellow perch.
The bulletin ends with the"~admonition, “Know
your fish warden!” and gives the name, ad-

dress and telephone number of the fish warden
for the district.

“Treasure Islands” Await Discovery—
Treasure islands—590 of them—wildwood
hideaways in northern Wisconsin have be—
come the vacation playgrounds of anyone who
wants to discover them. With many thousands

WORLD AT PLAY

of acres set aside as wildlife refuges, the Wis-
consin Conservation Department has decided
to provide islands in northern Wisconsin’s
inland waters as human refuges. These un—
developed water-bound retreats, varying in
size from less than one acre to twelve acres,
are now permanently reserved for the enjoy-
ment of fishermen, picnickers and vacationers.
The islands, many of them heavily wooded, are
now a part of Wisconsin’s extensive system
of state parks and forests and will be pre-
served in their native state for recreational

purposes.

The Chicago Civic Opera Orchestra—Last
summer the Chicago Park District presented
the thirty—seventh of a series of sixty-seven
open-air concerts given in cooperation with
the Chicago Federation of Musicians and
rendered by the Chicago Civic Opera
Orchestra in Grant Park Band Shell. Guest
artists were presented at the concerts. On
August 15 Efrem Zimbalist played.

Notes from the Essex County, N. J., Park
Commission—The August issue of Park N ews
published monthly by the Essex County, New
Jersey, Park Commission reports that nine-
teen table tennis outfits have been built this
year making twenty-five in all. Fifteen new
work tables were found to be so useful in
connection with the handcraft and nature pro—
grams that fifteen more will be made during
the Winter for use next year. Less' than ten
dollars provided each of the playgrounds with
two pounds each of eight different colors in
cold water paints. The advantage of this type
of paint lies not only in the low cost but in the
fact that fewer brushes are needed because
they can be so easily washed.

County Fairs Draw Crowds—This is fair
time, not only in the New England States,
but in states of the South and West, writes
Diana Rice in the New Y ark Times. Year by
year state fairs, with their hundreds of ex—
hibits, have become more imposing, while
small local or county fairs continue to increase
in number and importance. This year in Ver-
mont, where fairs get under way early in
September, villages of less than 500 inhabi—
tants are sponsoring prOgrams of sports events
and livestock displays. Prizes for the largest

WORLD AT PLAY 419

gladioli, the finest cake, the best canned fruit,
the biggest turkey challenge all members of
a household to take part in these annual
shows. The 4—H Clubs, particularly, bring out
the farm youngsters with their exhibits. These
boys and girls raise their pets from infancy
and personally tend and show the animals
they believe worthy of blue ribbons. Near
New York the Danbury Fair at Danbury,
Connecticut, opening October 3 for a week, is
perhaps the most popular and largest exhibi-
tion of its kind. Here pavilions are full of
fancy fowl, sheep, cattle and show horses. In
addition, there are halls devoted to handicraft,
including the old-fashioned patchwork quilt
and crocheted bedspread. Here, too, choice
recipes are sometimes exchanged as white fruit
cake, damson plum jam and raspberry jelly are
sampled and passed on by worried judges.

For Book Week in 1938—The twentieth an-
niversary of Children’s Book Week will be held
November 13 to 19. The American Library As-
sociation announces two books which will be
of special interest in connection with this week.

“The Activity Book for School Libraries,” by ,

Lucile F. Fargo coatains many suggestions for
Book Week activities, including assembly pro-
grams, book parades, book interviews, skits
and pantomimes, guessing games and poster
contests, hobby shows, parents’ night, and
other entertainments. The book will be ready
for distribution about October 15th. Further
information may be secured from the Ameri-
can Library Association, Chicago, Illinois. The
other book, to be ready about November 1st, is
“A Recreational Reading List for Young Peo-
ple” containing a, selection of 1,200 books listed
and described under such titles as Adventure,
Tales of Mystery, the Modern \Vorld, Ro—
mance, Humor, Sports and Hobbies, and
Careers. Additional suggestions for the ob-
servance of Book \Veek, the theme of which is
“New Books—New Worlds,” may be secured
from R. R. Bowker and Company, 62 West
45th Street, New York City, headquarters for
Children’s Book Week.

A Sub-marginal Tract for Public Recrea-
tion—A Department of Agriculture sub-
marginal land project of 10,290 acres in eastern
Connecticut is being turned over to state
management for ninety-nine years, according

   

      

EAGLE

RIN GER
(Patented)

   

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DGTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND

line of horseshoes and accessories,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

Many Styles of Horseshoes

Official Courts 0 Stakes

Stake Holders 0 Carrying Cases
Rule Books 0 Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

to the New Y ark Times. In accepting full
responsibility for the protection, maintenance
and proper use of the area, Connecticut be-
comes the first state to take over a project of
this kind. Known as the New London Land
Utilization Project, the project involves
selected areas of poor land in which farming
has been unsuccessful and which will be de-
veloped for public recreation, .forestry and wild
life conservation as part of a nation-wide pro-
gram for the more constructive use of land
in depressed rural areas. The Resettlement
and Farm Security Administration and the
WPA have been improving the land for these
purposes in the last two years, building
recreation facilities, dams, reforesting and
developing Ere prevention facilities.

Camping Informally—Following the close of
the regular camping season. residents of Oakland,
California, desiring to use the camp facilities and
provide their own meals were permitted to do so
until October Ist. The charge for using the tent
accommodations was 50 cents per person per day.

420 WORLD AT PLAY

 

YOU CAN OWN A

New ROYAL

PORTABLE

    

Yes you can actually own a New Royal Porta-
ble with Touch Control for as little as $1 a
week. (De Luxe model illustrated.) Try the
New Royal. See how the whole family takes
to it. Then own it on your own terms—cash
or ONLY A FEW CENTS A DAY, with initial
down payment. See your Royal Portable dealer
or mail coupon today for information.

d
c

ROYAL TYPEWRITER COMPANY, Inc.

Dept. RNR 1038

2 PARK AVENUE. NEW YORK, H. Y.

 

How San Francisco Spends Its Tax Dollar—
Of the tax dollar in the city and county of San
Francisco, California, $.0306 goes to parks; .0185
to recreation; .0143 to the library; .0141 to juve-
nile courts; .0763 to police, and .1751 to schools.
For health .0635 is expended and .0431 goes for
unemployment relief. The rest of the dollar is
spent for employees’ retirement, lighting streets
and buildings, emergency reserve, public works,

county Welfare, bond interest and redemption, fire
and miscellaneous departments.

A Hobby Show in Elizabeth—On May 13th
and 14th a hobby show sponsored by the Boys’
and Girls’ Week Committee of Elizabeth, New
Jersey, was held at an armory. Competition was
open to boys and girls sixteen years of age and
under, living within the limits of the city. The
chief requirement for exhibitors was that any
article or exhibit submitted by an entrant must
have been entirely prepared by him. The classifi-
cations were arts, crafts, collections, woodwork
and cabinet making, models, mechanical "and

technical, natural history and camera craft. There
was also a classihcation of special hobbies which
covered any exhibit not included in the other
classifications.

Buffalo’s Mardi Gras—On March lst, Buf-
falo held its All—Nations Mardi Gras. Many
citizens served on the committee which made
arrangements for the event and a large num—
ber of organizations were represented, among
them the Buffalo Museum of Science, Women’s
Clubs, the Historical Society, groups of for-
eig'n-born citizens and many others. The pro-
gram included a concert by the Buffalo Phil-
harmonic Orchestra, and a pageant. A parade
of nations introduced eighteen nations with
their dances and music. A period of general
dancing concluded the program.

Almost "As Good As N‘ewH

(Continued from page 382)
her 24th when the last loads of toys are gone.

To enable 104.000 children to keep their faith in

A RECREATION BUILDING FOR WELLESLEY COLLEGE 421

Santa Claus is worth all the effort. It helps the
agencies, too, for it has been long since they had
funds to supply toys to their constituents. If there
is any money it goes for food these days.

An Excellent Project for Recreation
Departments

We think this is a good project for playground
and recreation organizations because:

I. We know from long experience how to make
something out of little.

go

\Ve have continuing experience in organiz-
ing the energies and capacities of community
forces.

3. \Ve feel the project lends itself to the use
of our facilities and skilled personnel.

4. \Ve think it is well for us recreation people
to implement the direction of a natural emo-
tion during a Christmas season.

In all this large undertaking our expense, as an
organization, does not run over $500 to $600,
most of which is the salary of the superintendent
who is an exceptional artisan. Even this sum is
raised through a letter appeal for funds.

Even if we wanted to discontinue this project
after a decade of experience I doubt whether we
would be permitted to do so by all concerned. 80
perhaps we are moving in the direction of a
MILLION toys, and we are happy in the doing.

A Nature Program in a County’s Parks
(Continde from page 384)

mer and a thin nail chipping away the background
to a depth of 1/16” leaving the outline in bas-
relief. The ingenuity of the children themselves
produced many different effects, one boy getting

l a very good likeness of an autumn leaf from a -

piece of brown wood and a red crayon. We have
been indebted not only to manufacturers who
have given us scrap leather, cardboard, and wood
for both handcraft and nature‘projects, but also
to parents of children who have contributed other
scrap materials which we have been able to use.
One ingenious instructor asked his boys to col-
lect metal caps from various types of bottles
which were nailed with the corrugated surface up
to a piece of wood to form a scraper to be placed
at the entrance of the building. This was made a
_ combined handcraft and nature project by asking
: the children to learn all they could about the

1 . (Continued on page 422)

l

A Recreation Building for
Wellesley College

WELLESLBY COLLEGE is to have a new recrea-
tion building into which has gone much

careful thought and planning.

The swimming pool, seventy-five by thirty-live
feet, will occupy the entire west wing. Offices,
dressing rooms, and showers for the swimming
instructors and life guards will be located at the
north end of the pool, entirely shut off from
the pool except for observation windows and
an antiseptic footbath through which the in-
instructor or life guard must walk before enter-
ing the pool area. The only other entrance to
the pool area will be the swimmers’ entrance
likewise- protected from street ,shoes by an
antiseptic footbath. The entrance and exit to
the gallery will be from the second floor. Coat
rooms, lavatories and phones for spectators
for special swimming or dancing programs
will be conveniently located at the foot of a
short stairway leading directly from the en—
trance lobby. A student coming to the building
to swim will pass through the spacious
entrance lobby with its fireplace and com—
fortable chairs, after joining her friend who
has been waiting for her .in the attractive
lounge at the right of the entrance. They will
secure their bathing caps and sandals from
their tote boxes and swimming suits from the
matron with whom they register. Dressing
rooms, toilets and showers reserved for swim—
ming will be so arranged that no unnecessary
steps need be taken to assure personal cleanli-
ness before passing through the antiseptic
footbath which will lead to the pool area. Both
individual showers and open showers will be
available. Students will leave their bath shoes
in individual compartments in the drying room.

'Upon leaving the pool, the bath shoes will be

reclaimed, wet suits deposited in the drying
room, and the student will return to her dress-
ing room in a bath sheet. Drying rooms and
the matron’s office will be connected by lifts
with the 1inen rooms on the ground floor, con-
veniently located with reference to the service
entrance. After leaving her cap and sandals
in her tote box, the student may take advan-
tage of the electric hair dryers before checking
out at the matron’s office. Similar facilities
for both men and women faculty will be avail-

422 PRESCRIPTIONS FOR HALLOWEEN HOODLUMS

able not only for swimming but for general
recreation. The architect’s plans include the
most up-to—date systems of water sterilization,
air conditioning and lighting.

The east wing of the building will contain
two dance studios. The smaller unit, the floor
of which will be three feet higher than the
second dance unit, may be converted into a
stage, with costume and scenery storage rooms
adjacent. The larger unit will accommodate an
audience of approximately four hundred. A
balcony, equipped for motion pictures, will
seat approximately sixty spectators. Below the
dancing units and separated by sound proof
floors will be bowling alleys and a club room with
adequate space for small groups of spectators.

On the second floor a recreation room large
enough for three badminton courts, will also
be equipped for other games. This room will
serve for wall tennis practice during the out-
door sports seasons when weather conditions
prohibit the use of the courts. Golf and
archery ranges, and an attractive club room
with kitchenette will also be located on this
floor. A solarium with dressing and rest rooms
is planned for the roof over the central and
southern portions.

The recreation building will be the center
of a large recreation 'unit made up of Mary
Hemenway Hall, housing the original gym-
nasium and recreation facilities, which was
erected in 1909, the athletic fields and lake,
'Alumnae Hall, and the new outdoor theatre.
The new building, 115 by 238 feet, will face
and overlook the athletic field.

The building will provide opportunities for
recreation for every member of the college
faculty as well as students, and will serve as
a strong incentive for students to spend more
weekends on the campus where they may
entertain their guests, men as well as women.

(Continued from page 421)

source and manufacture of the glass bottles as
well as the material from which the caps were
made and the paint which formed the decorations.

Having learned that Joseph Lee loved picnics
and hiking through the woods, we built part of
our celebration of National Joseph Lee Day
around a nature program. This involved having
two rangers at South Mountain Reservation and
one in Grover Cleveland Park, which is a natural-
ist’s paradise. Each ranger conducted at least

two different groups on nature walks, some of the
groups numbering more than 100 persons, rang-
ing in age from children to adult members of the
summer session of one of our State Teachers’

Colleges.

We believe ,that nature recreation for all age
groups has come to stay in the Essex County Park
System where we have a wealth of material form-
ing the natural background. This background
lends itself admirably to many phases of a well-
rounded program, from trail games and other ac—
tivities already described for children, to nature
walks for adults. To stimulate hiking by indi—
viduals or small groups we have published a pic—
torial trail map of South Mountain Reservation
where there are more than twenty miles of foot
trails clearly marked with numbers and direction
arrows. One thousand of these maps have already
been sent out to those requesting them, some find-
ing their way not only to other counties but to

other states.

Prescriptions for Hallowe'en Hoodlums
(Continued from page 387)

Indoor Parties. If it must be an indoor party, be
sure and call it something attractive enough to
lure the. boys who want a good scare. Make it a
“Haunted House Party”—every community has
a haunted house around some place—or a “Spook
Party,” or a “Graveyard Party,” or a “Witch
Party,” (with Walt Disney realism if necessary,
though not for small children), or a “G—Men
Party.” No party is spooky enough for “Hallow-
e’en age” boys unless it has a Chamber of Hor—
rors or a Trail of Terror. The following games
and stunts should be sufficiently spooky:

Murder. Shuffle playing cards (as many cards
as there are players) always having the ace of
clubs and the king of spades. Pass out one to
each person, who does not make it known the
card he holds. The guest holding the ace of clubs
is the murderer, and the one with the king of
spades, -the attorney. The attorney turns out the ,
light, leaving the room in complete darkness.
While everybody is moving about, the murderer,
unknown to all, also moves about until he comes ‘
upon some person Whom he grabs very gently by
the neck. The person who is grabbed must scream
and fall to the floor. Three seconds and no more _
time must elapse from the time of the scream until '
the attorney turns the light on. Everyone must
remain in the position he is at that time in

MORE THAN “MERE PUPPETS”! 423

order that the attorney may look for clues, etc.
After his inspection the attorney instructs the
court to come to order. And then guests sit down
and the trial begins. The attorney can begin ques—
tioning anyone he wishes. Everyone but the mur-
derer must answer truthfully to the attorney’s
questions. Each witness can be asked only three
questions. The attorney must guess who the mur—
derer is in only one guess. It might be well to
have a good attorney for the first time, and he or
she should be appointed. This game is full of
chills and thrills, and should go over with a bang
in a cooperative and congenial group. The boys
will also find an ego outlet in getting to be D.A.’s.

John Brown's Funeral. After the telling of ghost
stories, the host or hostess might announce in a
solemn manner that John Brown had met with an
automobile accident on his way to the party and
that his body had arrived in sections. All the
guests should be requested to kneel on the floor,
and a large sheet should be brought in. Each per-
son should grasp the sheet with the left hand and
hold it about a foot from the floor. Lights are
turned low. The remains should then be brought
in in a covered basket, and the different parts
passed around the circle under the sheet by each
person’s right hand which is free. The hostess
could start things by saying: “Poor John had only
one eye,” and a grape might be passed around to
represent this. A bit of false hair or a doll’s wig
would do for his scalp, and a number of spools
strung on stiff wire would serve as the spinal
column, odd lengths of corn stalks for various
bones, a large rubber bath sponge, slightly moist—
ened for the brain, a kid glove stuffed with saw-
dust and dipped in ice water for his hands, and
so on.

Bluebeard's Wives. A sheet is hung from hori-
zontal rod six feet from the floor. The bottom is
tacked to the Hour to make it taut. Girls standing
behind protrude their heads through slits which
are fastened closely about their throats to cover
the places where their necks touch the sheet.
Splashes of carmine on the sheet below produce
the effect of blood. The hair of each head is
gathered up and fastened to a rod above with rib-
bons. Faces are powdered and eyes with a dash
of lead color under them are kept closed. Blue—
beard seated on the floor dressed as a Turk con-
stantly sharpens monstrous butcher knives one
against the other. Attempts by the spectators to
touch the heads is met by angry lunges forward
by Bluebeard.

As Long As They Last--
$1.00!

0 Recreation workers who have never
secured the party books by Ethel Bowers
will now have the Opportunity of buying
the series at a reduced rate. The three
booklets offered are:

Parties—Plans and Programs
Parties for Special Days of the Year
Parties—[Ifusz'cal Mixers and

Simple Square Dances

They will be invaluable to you in
your social recreation program

Originally priced at 50 cents each, the
three booklets may now be secured at
$1.00 for the series—send your order to

v.

Recreation Association
3'5 FOURTH AVENUE. NEW YORK CITY

National

 

With a full evening of specially planned “gori-
lied” entertainment such as this, it is doubtful
that many of the group will go “hoodluming”
about after the party is over. They have had
enough thrills for one night! ”

More Than uMere Puppets"!

(Continued from page 392)

grins, received the fifteen productions in twelve
straight hours.

Decatur is not only puppet conscious—it is
marionette mad. We even like to believe our city
of 65,000 is well on the way to becoming the pup-
pet center of America—a center of a folk art by
the people and for the people.

We are now more busily engaged than ever in
plans for the future—a state-wide organization of
all amateur and professional puppet groups to be
affiliated with the Puppeteers of America; an idea
for exchanging productions between recreation
groups in any part of the state, and most espe-
cially plans for the third annual Christmas mar—
ionette productions—Decatur’s biggest recrea—
tional activity.

424 DEVELOPMENT OF RHYTHMIC THERAPY FOR WOMEN

DeveloPment of Rhythmic Therapy

for Women
(Contiimcd from page 394)
Mr. Bjorberg tells of an experiment of his with

a patient completely snowed under his own hal-
lucinations, at whom he threw a ball daily, week
in and week out. He finally met with success
when the man involuntarily lifted his head and a
iiicker of interest came into his eyes.

Bowling on 'the green, archery, bat-ball, deck
tennis, badminton, horseshoe, shuffleboard, ping—
pong, and other activities may be used, but they
do not prove so successful except in individual
cases. One patient got the most value out of ping-
pong. The game was mild enough to temper her
tendency to over—exert herself as she did in other
games. Besides this, the carry-over value of such
a game as ping-pong is invaluable; it gives a
patient a wedge into society, a sense of belong-
ing again when she returns to her own circle.
Patients who became interested in a class of the
sort described while in a sanitarium, seek some-
thing similar when released and carry on their
activities. If something can be prescribed for the
patient in class that recreates a former experience,
perhaps as far back as childhood, which was a
successful and normal experience, the resulting
pleasure of recalled success gives satisfaction.

For example, jump ropes in the average case
give much pleasure. The reaction is: “Oh, I
haven’t jumped rope since I was a child. I never
can do it.” For a patient to find that she can,‘for
even a very short period, is actually fun. On the
other hand, one patient admitted that she had
never jumped rope when a child. She tried it

very unsuccessfully, felt frustrated, and left the
class in tears.

The Objectives

The aim of rhythmic therapy is to recreate a
normalcy. Deeply deluded patients cannot be
reached by oral methods, according to Dr. Mays;
control situations must be used. Therefore, when
using physical education to rehabilitate the men-
tally ill, the impressions must be simple in order
to emphasize \Vhite’s three objectives; i.e., the
physico-chemical level of such functions as cir-
culation, the reflex, and the psychic-symbolic level.

The points of emphasis to obtain these objec-
tives are:

Relaxati011--—learned and abetted through
music.

Posturew—the starting point of good health,
mental and physical because of the correct
support and position of the vital organs
which follows good posture.

Rhythmic exercise which includes the dra-
matic element found in folk dancing,
modern creative dance, and even tap and
social dancing.

ReHex reactions found in the playing of a
team game such as bounce ball with their
relation to social response.

The carry-over value of pleasure in using
the body as an instrument toward better
physical and mental health whether in a
sanitarium or out of it.

The new interest which keeps the patients com—
ing day after day, an interest outside themselves
plus the social value of working together, mingl-
ing and adjusting themselves to several others
through class discipline, are the results to be
obtained.

Music and the Theater for
American Children

(Continued from page 397)

because of their lively action, beauty of color and
costuming, and synchronized dialogue in many
voices rendered by the narrator. But all of the
programs have been enjoyed by thousands of
children.

Valuable Results Secured

Through these efforts of Junior Programs chil-
dren are being led into new interests and hobbies,
and at the same time new audiences are being
created for the musicians, actors and dancers of
the future, audiences whose horizon will encom-
pass more than ust the motion picture. This helps
in a measure to fulfil a real and crying need in the
country today, where the theater, the opera and

' concert have generally been considered luxuries

to be enjoyed only by the privileged class. Re-
cently, through the efforts of the government, ,
especially low—priced music and drama are being
offered to adult audiences. But it immediately be-
came apparent that the public must be educated to
these higher forms of art before they will attract
the necessary audiences. The average American,
unfortunately, has a horror of being considered
“highbrow.” A genuine enjoyment and under-
standing of cultural entertainment must, there—
fore, be developed in children at an early age, and
this is what Junior Programs, Inc., is hoping to
accomplish. Even in the short time of its exis-

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 425

tence it has proven that American children—just
like European or any other children—appreciate
the very best. It is not their fault that great
masses of them are growing up to be “cultural
illiterates." ,

Fortunately the Junior Programs movement
designed to change this state of affairs is begin-
ning to take -.root, and a firm foundation is being
laid for increasing the scope of its activities on a
national basis. Although, in order to maintain the
highest standards of professional quality, pay
specially trained performers «Equity rates or bet-
ter, and at the same time keep the average ad-
mission price within the range of all children, it
has been necessary to obtain subsidies of $15,000
to $20,000 annually from members and patrons,
it is confidently expected that the movement will
be entirely self-sustaining within two years.

How Two Cities Did It!

(Continued from page 400)

partment will not start a marble tournament in
competition, but rather will aid the already ex-
isting one.

'In building its program, it was necesSary for
the Recreation Department to begin with a chil-
dren’s program exclusively, but now the interest
has grown to such an extent that the facilities of
the depai'tment are extended to those older girls
and boys out of school and to adults who have
welcomed the program and shared in it enthusi-
astically. Three of the local. committees chal-
lenged the best teams from among the boys play-
ing on the playgrounds in their areas. In the first
game played, the fathers and committee members
defeated the boys by a score of 19 to I4 in spite
of the many errors.

Thus, not only are the volunteer workers provid-
ing recreational facilities for the children in their
communities, but in many cases they are them—
selves rediscovering the art of playing. '

Looking into the Recreational Past
(Continued from page 401)

wrestling, spear throwing, and other games, they
like to watch contests in which participants kick
at each other’s legs. Another game known as
Mwess is played on a board containing thirty-two
holes with counters that are moved according to
intricate mathematical calculations.

Wide and varied indeed are the ways in which
men spend their leisure time!

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles I

of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

School and Society, August 13, 1938

The Challenge to Education,
by James Edward ROgers

Leisure, September 1938
Caricatures in Wood, by Helen M. Douglas

By the Side of the Road, by Ethel L. Rourke

The Last Embers of the Campfire,
by Alice Gee Kelsey

The Little Men, by Alta L. Skelly

Child Life, October 1938

Hallowe’en Novelties, by Dorothea J. Snow
Things to Do for Boys and Girls

Parks and Recreation, September 1938

New Trends in Park Design in Milwaukee County
Parks, by Alfred L. Boerner

What Parks Mean to City Dwellers,
by Frank L. Bertschler

Refectories in Milwaukee County Parks,
by Fred A. Rieser

Character and Citizenship, September 1938
Leisure-Time Guidance, by Victor H. Evj en
Human Relations in Transition, by Hugh Hartshorn

Prevention of Personality Breaks,
by Dr. Walter H. Baer

Methods of Recruiting Leaders,
by Tracy W. Redding

PAMPHLETS

Puppet Teaching

News Bulletin, WPA of New York City. Mimeo-
graphed suggestions on paper bag puppets, includ-
ing stagecraft for marionettes.

The Place of Radio in American Life

An Address by Neville Miller, President, National
Association of Broadcasters, August 19, 1938.

Toledo, Ohio, 1937 Annual Report of the Recreation and
Parks Division of the Departmth of Public Welfare

Long Beach, California, 1937 Annual Report of the‘
Recreation Commission

Summary Report of the Philadelphia Charter Commis-
sion, September 1938

Outline and explanation of suggested charter.

M irthful Meals

Mignon Quaw Lott, Pentagon court, Baton ROUge,
La. $.50.

How to Make Backyard Playthings for Children
New York Herald Tribune, Reprint 071738

426 A TEX/IN COMMUNITY INTRODUCES ROQUE

Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual
(I938 Edition. Vol. Vl)

$3.00 Prepaid

O 220 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested

in swimming poolsin any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
425 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders, e’rc.I

payable to Earl K. collins

. A Texan Community Introduces Roque
(Continued from page 402)

shots, the other of wood for banking and speed
shots. The really good roque player can duplicate
practically every shot made on a billiard table,
even putting “english” in the ball. Three bank
shots are not uncommon. In a singles match, the
player must make four trips around the court,
going through all the arches each time.

The Quanah Park project is similar to thou-
sands of similar recreational developments under-
taken' by the Works Progress Administration
throughout the country, upon which at last
reckoning employment was being provided for
246,274 relief workers. One roque court built by
the VVPA at Cleveland Park in El Paso, Texas,
has resulted in the organization of a roque club,
with the sport supervised by W. E. Holland, a
former state champion.

During its operation the WPA has contributed
to the national trend toward improved recreational
facilities 1,534 new athletic fields, 881 parks, 1,303
new playgrounds, 433 new swimming pools, 324
wading pools, 123 new golf courses, 3,535 new
tennis courts, 569 handball courts, 716 horseshoe
courts, 731 skating rinks, 29 ski jumps and 28

 

ski trails. At the same time WPA has improved
1,360 athletic fields, 3,210 parks, 3,792 play-
grounds, 143 swimming pools, 47 wading pools.
186 golf courses, 1,174 tennis courts, 50 handball
courts, 56 horseshoe courts, 159 skating rinks, 4
ski jumps and 31 ski trails.

The six roque courts at Quanah cost $515.91,
while the entire development of the recreational
center will cost $11,943, of which WPA will pro-

vide $7,894.

That’s the Shot!

(Continued from page 406)

long, with wind conditions and nap of the
grass to be taken into consideration, then the
reason for your friend’s “off form” at bowls is
apparent.

Get in the game by phoning your Chamber
of Commerce as to the location of the nearest
bowling green, and then put your name on the
dotted line as a prospective member of the
Lawn Bowling Club. You’ll never regret it.
It’s the very easiest game to play at. And if,
after a while, you step into tournament play,
it will be music to your ears to hear your well-
directed play rewarded with “That’s the shot.”

Michigan Goes into Action
(Continued from page 407)

Other cities have had to depend altogether on
tax funds. About a year ago Escanaba established
a year-round recreation department with a full-
time director and a park and recreation budget of
$18,000 spent in the fiscal year 1937-38. With
WPA help a varied city—wide program of winter
sports and athletics, crafts and playground activi-
ties have been carried on. The city manager
secured citizen support by claiming that such a
program would result in a lessening of petty mis-
chief and destruction of public property and the
year’s experience has verified his claims.

It is a little over a year since Wyandotte estab=
lished a year-round program under full-time lead-
ership. Its budget for the current year appropri-
ated by the City Council is $6,238, and the facili-
ties include the use of school buildings and play
areas, as well as city grounds.

In it's new city budget Saginaw provides for a
full-time director of recreation for the first time
in over ten years. The response to a limited play-
ground program last summer and to a skating

LEVI D. WINES ' 4

Levi D. Wines

In August, Levi D. Wines of Ann Arbor,
Michigan, died at the age of eighty-six. For
fifty years Mr. Wines had been a member of
the faculty of the local high school and his
interest in youth was never failing. For forty
years he served as a member of the advisory
board of the High School Athletic Association,
and his name has been perpetuated in Wines
Field, the high school athletic field named in
his honor. He was active in the establishment
of the University School of Music and since
1890 has been its treasurer. Mr. Wines was
one of the original Park Board members when
the Board was established thirty—seven years
ago and was serving. on it at the time of his
death. As sponsor for the National Recreation
Association in Ann Arbor, he had been asso-
ciated for sixteen years with the national as
Well as the local recreation movement.

 

 

program this winter justified the city fathers in
this expansiOn.

On June I 5th, the first year-round recreation
leader under public funds to be employed in
Albion took charge. With joint city and school
financing, he will work under a Recreation Com-
mittee of members of the Board of Education and
the City Council. He will be responsible for some
intramural activities in the school system after-
noons, but the rest of his time, including the whole
summer, will be devoted to community recreation
with special emphasis on out-of-school youth.

Marquette has made provision for its hrst city-
paid recreation director to take charge of its
VVPA staff this summer, with the expectation that
this will result in a year-round program.

In addition to these new programs, there have
been increases in facilities and budgets in many of
the cities which have had public departments for
years. Detroit’s budget for the recreation depart-
ment for the coming year will be over $600,000 in
addition to the portion of the park department
budget spent for play purposes. Dearborn’s budget
nearly doubled in 1937-38 over the preceding year
and included the addition of a full-time boys’
work director.

Hamtramck added a member to its staff last
year and Highland Park dedicated a community
building, erected as a PWA project, and having a
fine gymnasium and club rooms. Kalamazoo has
added leadership in music groups for high school
graduates and others to its increasingly varied

I\)
\l

The Greatest Need
oi llur Times...

is character education and
citizens/zip training equal to

the needs of our time

The magazine, CHARACTER and
CITIZENSHIP is devoted to the prob-

lems and interests of all Whose daily task
it is to mold character and to educate

the citizens for these times.

CHARACTER and CITIZENSHIP

is now the organ of The National Coun-
cil on Education for Character and Citi-
zenship, a non-proht organization di-
rected by a board of nationally known
educators and laymen. The value and
interest of the magazine Will be greatly

increased by this relationship with a

national movement. CHARACTER and
CITIZENSHIP will become a clearing

house for all character and citizenship

building agencies.

CHARACTER and CITIZENSHIP
changed with the September issue from
fifty-two pages to a sixty-eight page
magazine. It comes to you ten times a
year for $2.00, or five subscriptions sent
in one order for $1.50 each.

A'sample copy will be sent on request.

vvv

Send your orders to:

The
National Council on Education
For Character and Citizenship

5732 Harper Avenue, Chicago, Illinois

428 A NEW DEAL FOR CARDS

program, and Lansing is developing a new school
building as a community center in a section of the
city where many of the colored people live, and
has the finest lay-out of lighted play areas in the
state. Midland has all plans made for the con-
struction of a swimming pool this summer, which
will add to its facilities of community center,
athletic fields and playgrounds.

The support of recreation from tax funds does
not depend on its relation to delinquency preven-
tion. In a machine age, with the shortened work-
ing hours (or With none at all), with the crowd-
ing into cities, with the monotony and specializa—
tion of much labor and with the traffic hazard of
the street as a playground, there is general accep-
tance of public provision for play as a builder of
health, citizenship and happiness for. the individual
and the community. That a community with ade-
quate recreation facilities and leadership tends to
have less crime is so self-evident as to give every
reason for including the prevention of delinquency
as a reason for the support of recreation.

A New Deal for Cards

(Continued from page 409)

players alone in this country—people who play
the game for the fun it gives, and for the relaxa-
tion, mental stimulation and companionship
found at the card table. It was also shown by a
recent survey of Time Magazine readers that card
playing was the predominantly favorite sport or
hobby, 69.1 per Cent of them playing. Gardening
was second choice, with 46.9 per cent, and pho—
tography, fishing and golf followed in order.

It should also be remembered that most people
know a card game or two—rummy or hearts or
pitch—thus providing a good basis to work from.
Yet because there are so many new card games,
variations of old ones and really lively games that
most people have never played before, there is
little difficulty in maintaining interest. '

Another feature of cards is that they lend
themselves, through parties or tournaments, to
large gatherings. Boston, for example, with
eighteen card rooms is reported to have had con-
siderable success with room, inter~room and city-
wide card tournaments.

For all who have budget worries (and who
doesn’t?) cards have another special attraction.
They are inexpensive. Even new decks are cheap
and in many communities slightly used decks may
be had from clubs, social organizations and even
private citizens, for the asking. Cards require

comparatively little play space and are readily
adaptable to almost any conditions.

Another cost-cutting point in their favor is that
cards need very little direction, leaving the all-too-
few directions free for other things.

And for solving the age-group problem, “fun
for those from 7 to 70” was never more true than
when applied to card games.

Cards are an equally valuable aid in helping the
adolescent to adjust. himself or herself to society.
The card table, providing a common meeting
ground for both girls and boys of the “awkward
age,” supplies just the right amount of social con-
tact in which they are becoming interested and
serves an excellent purpose of impressing them
with the basic principles of etiquette. A good
card game goes far to break the social ice which
encases the boy and girl of this age and brings
them together under wholesome circumstances.

At this point, and without going into the pros
and cons of how far a recreational program should
or should not “carry-over” into the home, it
should be pointed out that card playing may be
projected into the living room in'a natural, easy
manner and provides an all—family game, regard-
less of number or age differences, which can do
much toward maintaining the ties of the-Ameri—
can home.

In this regard, bridge classes have been found
to be a boon to the “budget brigade” —nyoung
married couples with limited incomes but with a
desire to entertain their friends and social obliga~
tions galore. If they can learn bridge, which is
the most popular card game in the United States
today, many of their entertainment problems are
over.

Because they require no physical exertion,
cards, like checkers and chess, fit nicely into any
program for old folks. They provide the com-
petitive outlet so necessary for maintaining well-
being of the “actively retired” group. Daily, semi-
weekly or weekly schedule of card games for the
oldsters does much to maintain the purpose and
tempo to living.

When you come right down to it, cards seem
to be recreation’s oldest———yet newest aid.

Cincinnati's New Sports Field
(Continued from page 410)
the sports field has been under construction, pro-

vision has been made for several hundred gardens
ers who have garnered approximately $25,000

o---

l

worth of vegetables each year. The gardens have ‘l l
l

(IA/log (Thai cSubAcnibe!

School Activities.

in their school means . . .
(Jon the PRINCIPAL

School and community interest-— attention that is always given
to things going on.
School interpretation—demonstration of what the school is

doing, exhibition and explanation of the work that justifies
the modern school.

School spirit, harmony within and among school groups, school
loyalty and good-will.

(Jon the  (Jon the 

 

Material for assembly and community programs. Always an educative something-to-do.

Practical ideas and suggestions for cllibs and A wholesome good time—a happy, eventful
home rooms. school life.

Plans for parties, banquets, and socials. A rich experience in genuine democratic living.

What SEHUUL ACTIVITIES subscribers
received the past gear for only $2.00

21 Articles on School Assemblies
14 Articles on Athletics
EXECUTIVES of SPONSORS of

56 Articles on Clubs
11 Articles on Commencements

   

       
    
    
        
     

    
 

    
 

7 Articles on Debate Senior High Schools Class Organizations

13 Articles on Dramatics Junior High Schools Financing Activities

7 Articles on Financing Activities . Elementary Schools Trips and Excursions

6 Articles on Home Rooms DIRECTORS of COACHES of

7 Articles on Music Activity Programs Athletics

20 Articles on Parties Assemblies Debate

23 Articles on Program Material Class Plays Other Contests

8 “tides 0“ Sd‘o‘” Pupi'catlons ADVISERS of STUDENT LECTURES in

3 Articles on School Spll‘lt . .

12 A t. 1 St d t G t Department Clubs Class Organizations
r ic es on  en overnmef‘. . Home Rooms Parties and Banquets

10 Articles on Miscellaneous Actlvrtles Pep Organizations School Clubs

Also Scores of pithy Editorials, News Items,
Book Reviews, etc.

I Student Publications Student Government I

0 This is more usable material than several subscription Price is only $200
boo/es at many times the cost would bring _  

to you! 1515 Lane Street Topeka Kansas

 

...THE MAGAZINE WITH A BIG PLACE IN EVERY SCHOOL...

429

430 TOY SHOPS ON WHEELS

been carried on under the Community Gardens
Association with the cooperation of the Recrea-
tion Commission. The interest of the Recreation
Commission in these gardens has been the recrea-
tional interest. It is the belief of the Commission
that great numbers of people want to come close
to the soil and get their greatest recreational en-
joyment from gardening.

“If the Commission had accomplished no other
purpose than to provide a safe place for bi—
cyclists,” states the report of the Director of Rec-
reation, “the Airport recreational development
would have been abundantly worthwhile. None
could see the swarm of bicyclists pedaling through
the great stretch of green meadows of the Air-
port Sports Field without sensing the joy and
satisfaction that young and old derive from this
activity under ideal conditions. In the laying out
of the bicycle trails the Commission has avoided
straight lines and has created the atmosphere of
a country road amid great open spaces in the lay-
out. In a city with so much topography as Cin-
cinnati, it is most fortunate that the Commission
has the control of a property providing oppor-
tunity not only for the already constructed three
and one-half miles of trails on comparatively
level ground, but also the opportunity to add
many more miles when the project is fully con-
structed. Ultimately, when the Commission has
adequate storage facilities, it is anticipated that
hundreds of people will own their own bicycles
and that the Commission will take care of them
the year around for nominal rental.”

Toy Shops on Wheels

(Continued from page 411)

Holes are punched in a square piece of card-
board, covered with wall paper, and red golf
tees are used as in “real” golf.

A year later, in 1937, a leader was requested
for the arthritis ward at St. Luke’s Con-
valescent Hospital. Here it was her job to
encourage the use of hands that were slowly
becoming useless, and it was only with per-
sistent effort that work was accomplished.
Patients soon grew eager to get started each
day, and before long pocketbooks and other
fine work was being turned out by them.

Last Spring Eloise Hospital asked for aid,
and here again the work began in the arthritis
wards. The results have been so encouraging

that more leaders are being added whenever
possible.

Both the Toy Project and the Recreational
Therapy Program have met with huge success
in the institutions of Detroit, and together they
have solved many of the problems which must
inevitably arise in caring for the sick and
underprivileged.

Woodmere Plays
(Continued from page 413)

I. There are two general types of cases in a
state hOSpital—the chronic cases which will prob-
ably require permanent hospitalization, and the
more hopeful cases which may leave the hospital
eventually and return to their local community to
attempt to make a normal social adjustment.
These group lines are not strictly dehned, since
there is a frequent passing of patients back and
forth between them. Types of recreational ac-
tivities must be planned for each of these groups:
for the chronic cases, with the aim of providing
them with pleasure in an effort to make life more
enjoyable, and for the more hopeful 'cases with
the aim of helping them to make a better social
adjustment and eventually to leave the hospital.

2. Active participation in group activities is
much to be preferred over the passive participa-
tion to be found in such activities as the movies,
attending plays, and watching of others engaging
in sports. The latter, although providing pleasure,
has, as a general rule, little actual therapeutic
value.

3. Psychotic patients represent a cross-section
of the general population in interests, and, as
such, any social activities which are normally en-
gaged in outside of a hospital can be utilized in
the recreational program of a state hospital. ‘

4. Interest in recreational activities must be
built up through a “selling program” in the insti-‘
tution. We were fortunate enough to have a small
Sunday School paper which we expanded to serve
as a general Hospital News sheet. In addition,
we attempt to make personal contacts with all
those patients whom the physicians feel should be
“drawn out” and try to interest them in certain
phases of our program.

5. There is an acute need for the employment
of a trained full-time person to handle the recre-
ational program in any state hospital if the opti-
mum therapeutic value is to be derived. We have

'found that one of the greatest handicaps in our

program is the fact that many of our activities
must be curtailed simply because we have no
trained person to initiate a program and super-
vise it.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Park and Recreation Structures

By Albert H. Good. National Park Service. Available

in three volumes at $.75 each. United States Govern-
ment Printing Ofiice, Washington, D. C.

IN NOVEMBER, 1935 the National Park Service published

a volume entitled “Park Structures and Facilities.”
The demand for the book soon indicated that another edi-
tion mustfollow. The new edition, greatly revised and
enlarged, has taken the form of three volumes: Part 1—
Administration and Basic Service Facilities; Part II—
Recreational and Cultural Facilities; and Part III -—-
Overnight and Organized Camp Facilities. Each volume
of this exceedingly valuable series is profusely illustrated
with photographs, diagrams and plans. Taken together,
the series represents a comprehensive encyclopedia of in-
formation on park facilities.

Folk-Dances of Germany

Collected by Elizabeth Burchenal. G. Schirmer, Inc.,
New York. $2.00.

THIS COLLECTION of twenty—nine dances and singing

games, including full directions for performance and
with accompaniments arranged by Emma H. Burchenal,
has been made possible through fellowship grants made
for the purpose in 1933 and 1934 by the Oberlaender
Trust. The study which produced the collection was
made at first hand in different communities of rural
Germany where the old folk-dances have survived chang’
ing conditions and are still a vital part of the life of the
peOple. Miss Burchenal saw and took part in most of
the dances contained in the collection and recorded them
by notation on the spot, while present as a guest at
weddings and festivals or as a visitor in the homes of
hospitable farm and village families.

Gardening as a Hobby

Allen W. Edminster. Harper Brothers, 49 East 33rd
Street, New York. $2.50.
THIS CONCISE VOLUME for the beginner covers the fun-
damental information necessary in planning and main-
taining a varied planting of flowers, shrubs and lawn
about the home. The essentials of garden practice are
discussed in short chapters on soil preparation and plant
foods, plant propagation, coldframes and hotbeds, in-
sects and diseases. The information about plant ma—
terials is summarized in convenient charts that include
the use of the plant, its soil and light requirements, its
color and season of bloom and methods of propagation.
These charts are a special feature of the book, for one
can see at a glance the varieties of annuals, perennials,
roses and bulbs that are commonly planted and the pro-
cedure for growing them.

The Civic Value of Museums

By T. R. Adam. American Association for Adult Edu-
cation, New York. $.75.
THIS BOOK is an attempt to answer the question as to
the educational values which may be derived by the
ordinary adult citizen from the existence and functioning
of our metropolitan museums. That museums play an
important part in adult education is the conclusion of
the writer. “Museum education,” he says, “whether in
art or science, stands ready to fill some of the gravest
cultural gaps in our civilization. It is capable of pro-
viding adult citizens with access to primary sources of
knowledge concerning their own environment in ways
that are not open to any other institutions.”

Field Hockey Guide l938

American Association for Health and Physical Educa-
tion. Endorsed by United States Field Hockey Asso-
Clatlon. Spalding’s Athletic Library. No. 438. $.25.

IN ADDITION to the rules prepared by the National Sec-
tion on Women’s Athletics, the 1938 Field Hockey
Guide contains a number of articles on the techniques
of the game.

Swimming and Diving

Prepared by the American Red Cross. P. Blakiston’s
Son and Company, Inc., Philadelphia. $.60.

WITH THIS BOOK the Red Cross takes a step toward a

greater training program in the art of swimming
as a means of water accident prevention. It presents to
the American people what may well prove to be a some-
what original approach to the subject of the art of
swimming. It is hoped that the information given in the
book will simplify the learning process for all who study
its pages and that it will make swimming a far happier
and safer sport than it has "been in the past. The con-
tents include Introduction tO Swimming (an interesting
statement of the development of the sport); Learning
How to Swim; Elements of Swimming; Styles of
Swimming; Other Forms of Swimming; and Diving.
There are sixty-seven illustrations in the book.

Treasure Chest Publications

Published by Treasure Chest Publications, Inc., 62 West
45th Street, New York. Each $.10, plus $.03 postage.
THF. COLLECTIONS of songs and of piano music issued by

this company are probably so well known, though re-
cent, that notice of them is scarcely needed. A tribute is
due, however, to the publishers for venturing to issue so
attractive a series of booklets at only 10 cents a copy.
Many of them may be secured at five and ten cent stores.

431

432 NElV PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

’-

Each booklet contains full piano accompaniments along
with the tunes. Several contain old but seldom used
songs which might well be added to community sing
lists. The printing, binding and illustrations are in them-
selves enjoyable as well as adequate. The suggestion
might be made regarding some of the songs that the har-
monies added tO many a fine, simple song might advan-
tageously be displaced by the wholesome ones with which
the song was born.

Among the booklets Of special interest to the recrea-
tion worker are the following: Treasure Chest Com-
munity Songster; Treasure Chest of Christmas Songs
and Carols; Treasure Chest of Dances—Old and New;
Treasure Chest of Cowboy Songs; Treasure Chest of
Home Spun Songs; Treasure Chest of Songs Never
Forgotten; Treasure Chest of Old Time. Song Hits;
Treasure Chest of Children’s Songs and Games; Songs
of Sacred Beauty; Songs We Love; Gems for Piano;
Darn Fool Ditties; Piano Tricks—Imitations and Now-
elties; World-Wide Songs.

Neighborhood—My Story of Greenwich House.

By Mary K. Simkhovitch. W. W. Norton and Com—
pany, New York. $2.50.

In this book Mrs. Simkhovitch tells, in a charming
and readable manner, the story of her early home life,
college training, apprenticeship in College House on the
lower East Side, and finally her own development of
Greenwich House.

The trends of life in Greenwich House prior to the
war, the transition Of Greenwich Village during and
after the war, the results of the depression upon the lives
of the people and the institution, and finally the descrip-
tion of powerful economic and social forces now at work
in the city of New York reveal a breadth of understand-
ing which many years in the service of the peOples in
these communities has developed. We would recommend
the reading of Neighborhood, not only for an understand-
ing of social conditions and the work of a nationally
known settlement house, but to catch the spirit of the

social pioneer.

Starc raft.

By William H. Barton, Jr. and Joseph Maron

, Joseph. Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill Book

Company, Inc., New York. $2.50.

Amateur astronomy as a hobby has made a place for
itself in the recreation programs. The lore of the stars
and the drama and history of their discovery have a
fascination hard to escape. Starcraft not only gives a
detailed guide tO the study Of the stars, but tells how the
reader can build his own instruments for making obser-
vations from a cross-staff to a simple reflecting telescope.

The Geography of Reading.

By Louis R. Wilson. The University of Chicago
Press, Chicago. $4.00.

This volume presents the findings of an extensive sur-
vey Of the distribution of libraries and library resources
in the various states and regions of the nation. It also
shows the relation of this distribution to that of book
stores and rental libraries, magazines and newspapers,
and to the status of other social institutions and media
of communication of ideas such as the school, the mov—
ing pictur‘e theater and the radio. Many tables and dia—
grams are included in this exhaustive study.

New Trends in GrOUp Work.

Edited by Joshua Lieberman. Association Press, 347
Madison Avenue, New York. $2.00.

The National Association for the Study of Group
Work in this volume has presented articles by nineteen
leaders in the field. These particular articles have been
chosen by the Editorial Committee because together they
represent a unified picture of the group work frontiers.
Recreation workers will be especially interested in the
article by Neva L. Boyd on “Play as a Means of Social

Adjustment.” ! -‘ ill iii

Reading—A Tool for Learning.

Compiled by Nila Banton Smith. Association for
Childhood Education, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.VV.,
Washington, D. C. $.35.

In this bulletin Miss Smith stresses the importance Of
normal growth of the whole child in the nursery school
and kindergarten years, the development Of readiness for
reading, the program of abundant living, and the natural
Introduction tO reading activities when the child is old
enough tO find satisfaction in them.

Sharing Experiences Through School Assemblies.

Compiled by Agnes L. Adams. Association for
Childhood Education, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N. VV.,
Washington, D. C. $.35.

There are many values to be gained from school as—
semblies with their rich Opportunities for learning to
share and live together. This bulletin presents a variety of
opinions as to the purpose, preparation, organization and
production of assembly programs. '

Municipal Index and Atlas 1938.

American City Magazine Corporation, 470 Fourth
Avenue, New York. $5.00.

The fourteenth annual edition of the Municipal Index
and Atlas deals, as it does each year, with municipal
services such as streets and highways, water supply and
purification, light and power, and public safety. The book
contains directories of municipal officials such as mayors,
city engineers, waterwork superintendents, and street

superintendents.

 

 

 

Oflicers andDirectors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS
JOHN H. FINLEY, President
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT VVooDS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH,‘ Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York. N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan Cty, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange. N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAYUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSI‘I‘ER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, MaSS.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

