h'fartMnrray College Library

Jacksonville. Illinois

Work and Play

UR forefathers regarded work as the chief secular object of man’s existence. A gloomy
economics reduced us to the status of animals, breeding to the limits of subsistence,
struggling ever with the reluctant earth. By the sweat of our brows were we to gain our

bread. If we did not plant we should not reap. As the modern proletarian gospels spread
across the world, the marks of toil were glorified in an imagined proletariat—the calloused

hands, the lined faces, the bent backs. Samuel Smiles and Karl Marx had more than a little
in common.

There is no doubt that work is still necessary, though we haven’t found a way to provide
it for all who want it. But we are coming to regard work as a by-product of human life rather
than a human life as a raw material of work. The new morality will admit that we work to
live, but will not demand that we live to work. It finds expression in such observations as Mr.
William F. G. Swann, director of a' research laboratory at Swarthmore, Pa., made at the con-
ference on adult education the other day. Said Mr. Swann:

“The only excuse for things utilitarian is that they provide the means for things non-

utilitarian.” The glorious adventure of living is not to be forever .limited by a grubby pre-
occupation with the means for living. '

Truly, as Mr. Swann implied, we have to “earn” the “living” that we get. But this does
not of necessity mean that we must produce potatoes, or motor cars, or clothing, or houses, or
services, though most of us have to do something of this sort in return for permission to eat.
The “living” he had in mind in his admirable discussion of human happiness is life itself, and
the fullness thereof. A rich leisure may demand strenuous effort: as Mr. Swann put it, “there
are certain elements of drudgery which must be accepted as hurdles in the steeplechase of
life’s enjoyment.” But this is not ,work in Poor Richard’s use of the word. It is play, regard-
less of whether one is paid for it or not. The creative artist lives a life of heroic play. Play in
that sense—creative play—may some day be recognized as man’s supreme activity. If we so
regard it we may eventually cease to be the prisoners of our economic systems, of whatever
sort they may be. We may defy dictators because we have. an impregnable freedom within
ourselves.

Our cities are built by labor, but they are made tolerable by leisure. “Perpetual devo-
tion to what a man calls his business,” wrote Stevenson in one of the most delightful of his
essays, “is only to be sustained by perpetual neglect of many other things. And it is not by
any means certain that a man’s business is the most important thing he has to do." Certainly
in this cry between silences, as the poet saw human life, there is far more than the ministry
of the body—which is largely what the modern world has meant by work.""A world which can
entrust its work mainly to machines, without becoming the machines’ captive, might find its
way to a Utopia, in which “the shadows and the generations, the shrill doctors and the plangent
wars, would go by into ultimate silence and emptiness." There would remain the sunlight upon
green fields and water, the comfort of tobacco, the pleasure of friends, the striving, sometimes
arduous enough but still a form of play, to give exultant meaning to our brief pilgrimage
between the sky and earth.

Editorial from The New York Times, March 7, 1938.

APRIL, I958 _ (i 7 3 3 él

 

 

ll

“6:33:30 .3ch 83.789 aqmtzcb

.  4.

TA‘

 

.9...

Youth Journeys and the Social Sciences

The laboratory method applied
to education for citizenship

ow CAN the American
H child, on his educa-

tional journey toward
intelligent citizenship in the
-United States, come to know
in any adequate way the
regional differences that un-
derlie and create the great
economic and social prob-
lems on which he must take

a stand and cast a vote, as he gains his citizenship

rights in this democracy? Is it possible for the
voter in Maine to have any true conception of the

needs of the cotton pickers in the South, the farm-
ers in the Hood and dust-ridden areas of the Mid-

(lle \Vest, the steel workers of Pennsylvania, the
garment workers in New York City, the dock
hands in San Francisco, or the lumber jacks of
the Pacific Northwest? Is it possible, in educa-
tional planning, to face more fully the necessity
for this kind of provision for our future citizens
and to see how broader experiences may be made
part of the child’s education, thus bringing him
to see and know people in all parts of our country
as well as to read about them in the required text-

books?

How may we better plan for children to be-
come world citizens, to know
and understand the social

By DR. ROSALIND CASSIDY

Chairman

Department of Physical Education *
Mills College, Oakland. California

Lauridge House' near BathI England, built

newer educational tech-
niques of direct experience,
called the laboratory meth-
od, possible also in this im-
portant part of the growth
of citizens' of our democ-
racy? Is this direct, mean-
ingful experience with peo-
ple in their own geographi-
cal, economic, social and

historical setting an isolated subject in the cur—

riculum or is it an area of human relationships
that is an essential part of the life of all indi-
viduals in which each must acquire skill and un—
derstanding, especially in a nation where all in-
dividuals share the responsibility for the good of
all members and must register this responsibility
through their vote on issues that affect the group
as well as themselves?

Granted that American citizens need more di-
rect experiences in knowing their own country and
other countries, how can this be achieved? Has
such education been undertaken in our country
or in other countries; if so, what direction is given
us in future planning?

School Journeys in England

The School Journeys Association in England is
an organized movement
among English school teach-

and egg. on the site of an eleventh century abbey 61-5 grow-
nomic ing out of
problems fifty years
of people of recogni-
in other tion that
countries? travel is
Must this one of the
a r e a o f most effec-
education tive labor-
be acquired atory meth-
entirely ods in citi-
t h r o u g h zenship ed-
storing up ucation.
unrelated The story
facts and is told that
knowledge it began
from text- w i t h a
books, or school mas-
are we to ter in a
u s e t h e geography

 

3

4. YOUTH JOURNEYS AND THE SOCIAL SCIENCES

class teaching about gla-
ciers. Neither he nor any of
the class had ever seen one.
He promised the Children a
trip to Switzerland to learn
about glaciers first-hand, if
they would save a shilling a
week for a year. A year
later sixty boys with their
school masters were able to
spend a month in the Swiss
Alps.

The recognition of this
way of study has become so

“The opportunity to have inexpensive rec-
reation. to build resources for the whole-

' some use of leisure for one's whole life-

time. to have a healthy outdoor experience.
to adventure over the face of America see-
ing its beauties and feeling the challenge
of the pioneer days. to love it so that as
an American you wish to see it beautiful.
to help protect it from waste and exploita-
tion. to keep the countryside from litter
and ugly advertising' to learn to know other
wanderersI to learn how to travel inexpen-
sively and 'well. to gain the happy fellow-
ship of the road both at home and abroad——
these experiences our people need."-——Rosa-

[ind Cassidy in TbeNation’s Schools, May.

tion for a social democracy.
Dr. Thomas Alexander in
“The New Education in the
German Republic” evaluates
the aims of this program in
terms that show its im-
portance for education in
our Republic today: “Valu-
able as ‘wandering’ may be
for the physical upbuilding
of German youth, it is
doubly worth while from the
educational and social
standpoint because the trips

widespread that not only in—
expensive holiday trips to other countries are
planned by teachers and pupils but the Board of
Education permits these journeys in school time.
They are an essential way of studying the litera-
ture, history, geography and industries of Eng-
land and other countries.

The School Journeys Association has worked
arduously to plan travel schedules, charter boats,
obtain low rates for travel by bus, rail or steamer

at home and on the Continent, build hostels as well ’

as obtain use of the already existing youth hos—
tels, plan hospitality and schedules for foreign
student groups, plan exchange of students for a
semester or a year of study and set up cheap in-
surance to cover the liability of the teachers in
case of accident or illness among the children in
their care. The last report of the Association
showed a teacher membership of 4,000 and 70,000
British scholars participating in school journeys,
11,000 of them visiting foreign countries. Its in-
terest is to facilitate inexpensive travel by groups
of students. “One prominent aim of the Associa-
tion has been to reduce costs so that the poorest
scholars in any type of school may be provided
with an opportunity within their means.”-

A Tradition in Germany

In Germany there has long been a tradition for
teachers journeying with students over the face
of that beautiful country seeing and learning about

the Fatherland. Under the Republic such outings

were emphasized first, as a way of rehabilitating
the post-war young people—in 1925 from sixty
' to seventy per cent of the elementary school chil-
dren in Germany were reported undernourished
—and second, as a way of “education through ex-
perience,” “self—activity” and “unified instruction”
approved in that régime as the method of educa-

are taken in class groups in
charge of their own teachers. The shared experi-
ence in informal situations binds them all closer
together into a true ‘organic social group.’ Both
in plans for the expedition and in retrospective
discussion of sights seen and information gained,
the class work is enriched and made meaningful.
No better procedure or method than school ex-
cursions could be devised to fit the need of the
new German schools today when they are seeking
to educate children through self-activity, to unify
the school curriculum around large centers of in-
terest, to build their culture on native elements,
to foster genuine social spirit, and to make school
days a richer part of life’s experiences.”

During the Republic, with characteristic Ger-
man thoroughness, a monthly “\Nandertag” was
made compulsory in every school. This has been
continued by the National Socialists and supple—
mented by the Hitler Youth Training in National
Socialism which takes the young people in groups
to youth hostels where centers for training have
been established. I visited one of these in the
Castle of Stahleck on the Rhine, where the boys
and girls spend two weeks studying the Rhine
country and its industries and traditions as well
as Germany’s present political theories and ob-
jectives. At this time there also grew up the ef-
fort to establish a country home for every city
school so that each class could spend two or more
weeks in the country each year, both for the
health of the children and also to educate them in
the ways of the country people and in problems
of agriculture.

In 1926 the German Association of Schulland-
heime was formed in order to further the financ-
ing and establishment of these country school
homes, which were really private youth hostels. In
1934 they were all reorganized under the National

YOUTH JOURNEYS AND THE SOCIAL SCIENCES 5

Socialist Reich Youth Leadership Department
which administers all youth hostels and youth
wandering both at home and abroad.

The establishing of the Labor Service for all
secondary school graduates in the new Germany
is another form of laboratory education for young
people in citizenship. They are not only put upon
a health training regime in the out of doors and
a work service for their country, but are given
political education and an understanding of the
economic and agricultural needs of the Father-
land.

All elementary school pupils at the end of the
eighth year must, under a law of March, 1934,
spend one year in the country, called the Land—
jahr. John Taylor in “Youth Welfare in Ger-
many” states: “This
scheme . . . may be re-
garded as one of the im-
portant attempts to give
practical reality to the
theory of blood and soil
in the gr0wth and devel—
opment of the youth. It
represents the combining
of national political edu—
cation, physical educa—
tion, contact with the
land and the peasants,
and the development of
solidarity through com-
munity living. The prime
aim is to strengthen the
appreciation and under-
standing of the youth for
the country and the work
of the peasants.” Last
year 22,000 pupils under 1,800 specially trained
teachers had this experience. The instruction is
quite different from school and is modeled on a
camp plan: Following flag raising and breakfast
at 7:00, there is a four hour period each day of
work in the fields or in the homes of peasants,
luncheon, rest hour, sports, National Socialist
study period, evening meal and camp fire circle
with bed by 9.00 o’clock.

The school teachers’ part in these youth pro-
grams is much less than in England or in the
period of the Republic. It is interesting to note
the feeling voiced by Baldur Von Schirach, na-
tional youth leader, against teachers as the ac-
cepted leaders in the Hitler Youth program. Tay-
lor states: “Von ,Schirach believes that the teach—

 

er's jurisdiction should end with the school day
and that the youth leaders should have complete
charge of all out-of—school activities except in the
immediate family circle. He indicates that on
principle the teacher as such shall not be a leader
in the Hitler Youth but rather that leadership
shall come from all professions and walks of life;
that there be no more teachers employed as lead-
ers than carpenters or lawyers or dentists or mem-
bers of any other vocational groups. The position
is held that the ability to lead is a native charac-
teristic rather than a skill to be acquired by
training.”

Scandinavia Promotes Youth Travel
In Scandinavia there has long been a recogni-

xma. . v p: _, ago

.a" Inn-u—

A glimpse into the interior of the
youth hostel at Canterbury. England

tion of the value of youth travel both at home and
abroad, so that state funds have been made avail-
able to develop these opportunities for all chil-
dren. A new impetus is coming in France for such
opportunities for all ages. Recently the radio
trains taking children from Paris to see the coun-
tryside have received much notice. The youth hos—
tels have been established in Belgium, Czecho-
slovakia, Danzig, Denmark, England, Estonia,
France, Germany, Holland, Ireland, Lettland,
Luxemburg, Normandy, Poland, Roumania, Scot-
land and Switzerland.
(Continued on page 44)

The Magic. Dell

H E SU M M ER playground
season of the Los An-

geles, California, public
playgrounds was brought to a
close on August 28th when
,“The Magic Dell” was pre—
sented at Griffith Playground.
The festival provided a dra-
matic climax to the season of playground events
and made use of the abilities developed through
plays, dances, music, songs, handcraft and other
activities condUCted regularly at the municipal
playgrounds.

The costumes, stage settings, accessories, music
and the libretto were all the products of the chil-
dren and the leaders associated with them in the
centers. The decorations and accessories were
made in the women’s and children’s handcraft
classes at the playgrounds. The stage settings
were made by the Construction and Maintenance
Division of the Recreation Department. The Cos-

 

"Every child lives in a magic world——
a world of make-believe where magic “the house of ten thousand
wishes come true. Such a world, to
the child, is very
made even more vivid and enchanting
through music, drama and dance—the
realms where children find delight."

real. It may be

tume Department, known as

costumes,” accomplished the
gigantic task of creating 600
new costumes, all authentic
and well made. Revenues from
the rental of costumes in the
past two years paid for all the
materials used in the new costumes which will
serve the city for years to come. The chorus
numbers were sung by the Symphonic Alumni
Choir and the orchestral accompaniment was pro-
vided by the Los Angeles Concert Orchestra.
The festival was written and directed by Min—
nette Brodke Spector and Maxine McSweeny.
There was only one adult part in the festival, that
of the Fairy Queen. The other participants num-
bered 700 girls and boys from two to fourteen
years of age, and a dozen nations of the world
were represented by the folk dancers from the
various playgrounds. Five thousand people

THE MAGIC “ELL 7

 

viewed the festival with the greatest enthusiasm.

The Sycamore Grove with its green grass and
many trees provided a natural stage. setting for
the festival. ,

The scene opened in a beautiful glade in the
heart of an enchanted forest. From out of their
hiding places tiny elfin creatures made their ap-
pearance and danced with joy. Soon they were
joined by a group of fairies who danced to the
tune of light-hearted music. Into this scene there
wandered a Mortal Child who looked on in amaze—
ment. She was greeted and made welcome by the
elves and the fairies, and she stayed to witness the
arrival of the Fairy Queen and her court. To
entertain the child the Fairy Queen granted her
two wishes. When she waved
her magic wand the drama

elfin creatures. The cooperative spirit demon—
strated by all who shared in its creation made the
festival outstanding. There was not a single re-
hearsal of the various groups as a whole, but
when they were assembled for the performance
all the participants performed their parts with a
smoothness which was almost professional in its
excellence.

The festival was produced' at a minimum cost,
the only eXpense incurred being for the public
address system and the necessary labor. It was
estimated that the total expenditure did not
exceed $300.

Each year the Palo Alto, California, Recreation
Department, holds a festival
on May Ist which lasts the

and dance of Colonial days
First appeared to delight the
child. Then the Fairy Queen
summoned the children of
many lands to perform their
native folk dances. At the
close of her day in fairyland
the child fell asleep and was
carried out of the magic
realm of the forest by the

"Though you never find our Magic Dell
again, one pleasure may you always
keep as sweet on earth as here. That
pleasure is memory. and like my magic
wand. it can ever bring to you a pic-
ture of your day within this Magic Dell.
Even fairy creatures will treasure the
memory of this day. And now the time
has come to say farewell. The elves
will guide you safely from this fairy
realm. Come. we must be gone."——The

Fairy Queen to the Mortal Child.

entire day. Practically the
entire city attends and pub-
licity is given the event in
nearby towns. In addition to
the festival and coronation
of the May queen there are
hobby and flower exhibits, a
parade and a dance at the
community center.

A Study of Play Accidents in

Recreation workers will be interested in
knowing of some of the general conclusions
drawn from a study of play accidents in
Pittsburgh made by Michael E. WargoI Di-
rector of Recreation in Clairl'on. Pa.. while
he was serving on the staff of the Bureau
of Recreation. Pittsburgh. Louis Schroeder.
Superintendent of Recreation in Pittsburgh.
commenting on the value of the study. stat-
ed i’r disclosed certain conditions which
were taken into consideration in planning
the I937 program, with the result that ac-
cidents were curtailed to a great degree.

HIS STUDY of play acci-

dents in Pittsburgh was

based on data taken
from the accident report in
the Bureau of Recreation
. for the year 1936. Accidents
were defined in the study as
“injuries occurring on the
play premises which have
been noted by the super-
visor in charge and given
first aid or additional atten-
tion if necessary.” These ac-
cidents were reported to the office of the Superin-
tendent of the Bureau of Recreation.

There were fifteen year-round centers operated
by the Bureau of Recreation in 1936. The yearly
attendance was estimated at 1,547,558 visits.
Forty-six accidents were reported to the office for
the year. The accident ratio resulting from the
number of visits divided by the number of acci-
dents was one accident for every 33,642 visits.
During July and Au-
gust the fifteen year-
round centers maintain-
ed by the Bureau were
augmented by eighty—
three summer play-
grounds. The total esti-
mated attendance f or the
two months was 808,922
visits. Of the eighty—
three playgrounds Oper-
ated, forty-nine report-
ed a total of ninety ac-
cidents.

General Conclusions
from the Study

I. It can be seen that
accidents happen more
frequently on summer
playgrounds than on
those conducted as year-
round centers. This may
be due to a partially
trained personnel on
the summer play-
grounds as compared

8

 

Photo by H. S. Barlow, Ridgewoad, N. .7.

Pittsburgh

with a trained personnel
employed on a year—round
basis at the year-round Cen-
ters. A trained personnel
pays dividends by assuring
a safer place for children
to play.

2. The statistics reveal
that the grade school age
group of six to twelve years
were more liable to acci-
dents than pre-school chil-
dren or the junior high
school children. There were over twice as many
accidents in this group than either the pre-school

.. or junior high school group. Perhaps the schools

should include a unit. on playground safety in
their curriculum. Safety education on the play-

ground needs to be stressed to this group.

3. The ,number of male accidents exceeded that
of the female. This no doubt was due to more
men and boys frequenting the playgrounds and in-

dulging in big-muscle
activities than the
women and girls.
4. Accidents to the
_ adult group were very
much alike and these
occurred mostly in
game situations. In this
group were found
causes of accidents
which could be
avoided by careful su-
pervision of game situ-
ations and an activity
instruction program.
Some of the cases re-
ported were accidents to
participants standing
too near the playing
area who were struck
by ball or bat. Others
were falls in game sit-
uations probably due to
the lack of neuro-mus-
cular coordination on
the part of the adult.

(Continued on page 45)

The Witchery of Walking

N ow IS YOUR GOLF P” a friend
from a neighboring town
asked me. She remembered our gallant be-

ginnings. “All right,” I replied, “but I play it

now minus clubs and course.”

After some elemental deductions, her expres—
sion cleared. “I have it,” she _exclaimed, “the
walking is left.”

“Yes, the walking,” I confessed, “the only part
of golf I like and don’t have to apologize for. It
keeps me feeling fit and streamlines my sil-
houette.”

When I consider a treatise on walking, my
thoughts run ahead of my pen and become a tan—
gle out of which only one thing is clear—enthu-
siasm. Walking has more pow-
ers than I dare claim for it,
lest I seem like the barker at
a medicine show and attest so
much for this elixir that my
customers will turn away!

Yet walking is one of the
most beneficial of physical activities. Add to its

healthful value the social benefits of companion- ’

ship, or if alone, the brain clearing of introspec—
tion, the broadening aspect of exploring, the edu-
cational benefits of nature at first hand, the joy
one gets from being in the open. The ledger
shows not a single red entry.

I am leaving the front gate—I hope you’ll
come along—and am soon on a bridle path that
follows the lake route.
earth, rather than Mr. McAdam’s topping there—
on, is the better surface for long walks. Body re—
siliency is greater and more natural.

I have donned slacks and a sweater, low walk-
ing shoes over cotton socks, beret and dark glasses
-—proper preparation is necessary to the full en—
joyment of anything.

I try to remember that the Indian toed in and
that authorities advise walkers to emulate him.
Most city walkers toe out—a misguided idea of
beauty in foot movement. Toeing in for wood
walkers avoids tripping over ground roots, twigs
and snags. Stepping out from the hips, making
of them a sort of saddle in which the body
rides, arms free to swing in rhythm, walking be-
comes an art and a joyous one.

By JULIET 'B. PICKETT

Spring rides no horses down the hill.
But comes on footI a goose-girl still.

And all the loveliest things there be
Come simply so. it seems to me.

Edna St. Vincent M illay.

Doctors tell us that the l

One other rule—the law of the
road—I remind myself of; to
walk against traflic on the left of the road in
order more easily to see vehicles approach or be
out of the way as they come up from the rear.

In vagabond mood, I am ready for traveling
afoot—“the best posture,” says John H. Finley
in The Art of l/Valking, “in which to worship the
God of the Outdoors.” This gypsy mood gives
no thought to the four walls left behind, for it is
appeased by the larger, cloud-fringed home of all.

As I swing along, my eyes do, unconsciously,
their daily dozen. Across the lake they fly to rest
in the green shade of the great trees there, then as
quickly turn back to the spray breaking in lazy
froth at my feet. This long
range vision alternating with
the close—up, eye specialists
say, is the best of exercises
and postpones the day of arti-
ficial help.

Stimulating to eye and ear
are the birds. The roadside seems a mecca for
the many different kinds—bluebirds, woodpeck-
ers, robins and scissortails, whose faces are like
those of kittens. Swamps at one end of the lake
furnish reedy protection for blackbirds and ,star-
lings. One of the pleasures of walking in the late
evening comes from watching the long lines of
these coming in for the night. The air is black
with the formations they make in several
directions.

It is Spring, and with a surge of feeling I see
the earth grow young again. Pink stars from the
peach trees resist but coyly the wind’s call. Drawn
to the magnet, earth, the white foam of pear and
plum lie beneath in homage to the delicate green
that is replacing them on the parent tree. Willows
at the water’s edge resemble more than anything
great fronds of, fern—~sea-green tracery sup-
ported by brown wood. The grass pushing up in
patches is tender but strong, each blade hiding
under a sheath of green its own defense. One
variety is blue-eyed, its flower Hat and of a wood-
violet hue.

Only the mesquite tree refuses to acknowledge
Spring. Locked away in its gnarled branches is
a green lace rivaling any fern that grows. But the

9

1A

1‘0 THE WITCHERY OF WALKING

cattlemen have a sayingm—“You can’t fool a mes-
quite,” referring to the lateness of its budding.
Being native to the southwest where most of the
other trees are transplanted, the mesquite holds
its.protective covering longer than any other tree,
even the pecan. Only after the last icy tantrum
that Texas weather throws so disconcertingly
about the fruit and flowers does the mesquite let
fall a sheer jade drapery against her sturdy trunk.

Native, too, are certain birds, feathered Texans
that can take the climate as it comes. Common to
every season’s call is the bobwhite, and a common
sight is the Chaparral, that fleet runner of shrill
voice. The purple-black crow is a daily sight while
others that stay through the winter are the chick-
adee, junco, nut-hatch, titmouse, meadow lark and
lark—finch. The latter is a sweet singing species
with stripes on his head.

Up from the road, new ploughed ground, sea-
soned and fragrant, awaits its planting. These
fallow fields are fringed in verdure that seems to
guarantee the land’s fertility. Wild verbena pat-
terns the slopes in pastel, while bluebells growing
taller hide with their leaves the lower primroses.
Other wild flowers will appear almost daily adding
their color and detail to Spring’s coverlet. This
day the gossamer white of dewberry bloom is
present. Lacy vines of it, flecked with the white
spray of blossom, cascade lakeward.

Redbud hangs like a mauve mist above. For-
sythia throws its gold of spendthrift florescence.
Flowering almond, bridal wreath and rose-peach
tree beckon the devotee of
color and grace. Much of this
beauty, on a calm day, is
mirrored in the lake. The
sun upon the
water gives
back gold
coins of re-
flection and
r a m p a n t
f a n c y, i t
s e e m s ,
p l u n g e s
ahead, un-
reined.

No mistak-
ing the foot-
path leads to
beauty — of
vista, thought,
f a c e a n d

A. me ,u. u. 4,.4- '1. '77.“..1-rr .

"Walking entails the smallest monetary
outlay per hour of happiness that can
be found; it is the password to a green
world of peace and measured happiness."

 

Courtesy Bureau of Parks, Department of Forest: and Waters, Pennsylvania

form. It is an antedote for medicine, a saving in
cosmetic purchase. It straightens the arches and
toe muscles of the feet. It stirs the blood’s cir-'
culation and firms the skin. If one walks with
health as a goal, he is amazed at the by-products
of benefit. Glowing color and animation are a
light behind the eyes. Insomnia, worry, inertness
disappear in a healthy fatique from traveling
afoot and. a new mien is magic evidence of cumu-
lative good.

Birds sing, dipping their flamboyant colors
through the air. In a nearby tree a family of
cardinals are chattering. The shrill piping inti-
mates a domestic row which should be allowed its
privacy, were I not so curious! I remember last
May when their language became lucid in ma-
neuver. Gangly birdlings were to have their first
lesson in flying and the technic was under discus-
sion. The father, forgetting his own fledgling at-
tempts, demonstrated the finished art. His wing-
ing movement was a weaving ribbon of red which
he paraded before his children. They were pro-
perly impressed but timid. Perching near again,
after his crimson symphony of flight, he cocked
his head and chirped mandatory instructions. I
trembled for his pupils, but the mother bird, who
had not forgotten the courage that needs muster-
ing for such feats, hopped quietly to the front.
She Huttered her wings in a sort of warming up
demonstration, then spread them and lifted her-
self from the branch. It was amazing what care
and repetitious slow motion were manifest in her
teaching. Over and over, in
a one, two, three of funda-
mental movement, she show-
ed them the steps to success,
twittering en-
couragement
f o r t h e i r
cl um sy at-
tempts, soft-—
ening the falls
and initial
failure.

I walked on
-— a b e t t e r
m o t h e r, I

hope, f r o m
observation of
my feathered
sister’s meth-
ods, her ex-
a in p l e a n d
patience.

(Continued on page 46)

’
W' (if

Newton  Baker-

NYONE WHO attempts to un—
derstand the secret of

Newton Baker’s amazing

career must start, it seems to
me, with this fact in mind: Mr.
Baker had a full measure of the
versatility of genius. He held
one of those master-keys which
unlock the doors of so many
kinds of treasure houses.
He was at'once a great law-
yer and a great public ad-
ministrator. He was a dis—
tinguished scholar and
writer, and perhaps the
most eloquent and effective
public speaker of his gen-
eration. He was a profound
student of human problems
and an active participant in
every progressive type of
social work.

In an attempted interpre-
tation of Mr. Baker we have
to start with this prodigal
gift of talents, the amazing
variety and vivacity of his
mental energy. In the cath-
olicity of his tastes and in—
terests he resembled no one
that I know of in the public
life Of America, present or
past—with the possible exception of Thomas Jef-
ferson. Those of us who crossed the ocean with
him during the war remember the extraordinary
scope of his reading. He read constantly—wevery—
thing he could put his hands on—biographies, his-
tories, literary criticism, detective stories. Even a
book on the technique of- gasoline engines seemed
to hold for him a peculiar charm. At all times his
intellectual curiosity was inexhaustible. You who
knew him so well here in Cleveland will recall the
quick eagerness with which his imagination fast-
ened upon any new fact, caught its bearings and
clothed it with color.

How a man can have such diverse interests and
talents and still keep his balance and serenity is
one of the mysteries of human personality. But
with Mr. Baker balance and serenity were part of

An address delivered
at a memorial service

in Cleveland, 'Ohio

By RAYMOND B. FOSDICK

 

the texture of the man himself.

As was said of Mr. Balfour,

“his mind always retained its

clear, tranquil outlook upon the

human scene and its inexhausti-

ble pleasure in the processes of

thought.” This tranquil outlook
' was perhaps Mr. Baker’s most
distinguishing characteris—
tic. Whatever he touched,
he touched with genius, but
it was not the genius of the
virtuoso. Rather it was gen—
ius framed in tolerance and
simplicity, and anchored in
the deep calm of his own
spirit.

Genius and great talents
do not always, indeed do
not often, go easily with a
capacity for friendship.
With Mr. Baker, his affec-
tion for his friends knew
no limits. He remembered
everything that concerned
them, and gave to all alike,
high or low, famous or un- '
known, the wealth of his
understanding. How often,
in all the crushing respon-
sibilities of his life, he
found time to sit down and
write a letter in long hand to a friend—a gay,
sparkling letter, perhaps, about some personal in-
cident which had come to his attention, or a let—
ter which showed a flash of his brilliant capacity
for characterization. There must be literally hun-
dreds of these longhand letters of his in exis-
tence, scattered around the world among his
hundreds of friends. Like good conversation, let—
ter writing, particularly among busy men, is a
lost art. With Mr. Baker human contacts meant
so much and were so essential to his outgoing
spirit, that although he was one of the hardest
working men I ever knew, he refused to sacrifice
to busy interests the gracious art of friendship.

It is impossible on an occasion like this to de—
scribe the broad sweep of his talents and capaci—
ties or to cover the contributions that he made to

11

12 ' ' NEWTON D. BAKER

the tone and quality of citi-
zenship and to the meaning
of public service. With so
many facets to his life one
is tempted to ‘linger in ad—
miration before them all.
But as history writes the
record he will be remem—
bered, I would suppose,
primarily for his supreme
contribution to his country
as Secretary of War. Those
of us who were intimately
associated with him in the
\Var Department remember I
him there as a very simple and very modest man,
a man who in his heart hated the pomp and power
of the position assigned to him, but whose per-
formance from start to finish was shot through
with character and greatness which far too seldom
attach to leaders of democratic effort. He brought
to his task a mind as sharp and keen as any that
has been seen in public office in our time. Indeed
his mind was one of those rare combinations in
which swift perception is balanced by judgment,
and clarity and sanity run hand in hand. It was
undoubtedly this quality which so attracted Presi-
dent Wilson to Mr. Baker, for Wilson loved above
everything else an orderly and incisive mind.

But there was another quality' which went along
with Mr. Baker’s amazing lucidity and balance:
he had a capacity for firmness, for decisiveness,
which one hardly suspected on meeting him for
the first time. Perhaps the secret lay in the fact
that he was the son of one of Jeb Stuart’s old
troopers. He looked like a quiet type of student,
but his looks were deceptive. Beneath a scholar’s
face, he had a will like iron and an ability to say
“No” in a soft tone that
left no doubt in the hear-
er’s mind that the question
was definitely settled.
There never was any mis-
understanding as to whose
hand was on the helm in
the War Department. -It
was a quiet, unostentatious
firmness, but it was rock—
like in its solidity. This
was one of the mysteries
of his personality; for the
men by whom Mr. Baker
was surrounded in the

The recreation movementI not only in the,
United States but throughout the world,
owes much to the vision and statesmanship
of Newton D. Baker. As Secretary of War
in the Cabinet of President Wilson in the
World War period, Mr. Baker saw clearly
what recreation could do for the lives of -
enlisted men. Wholeheartedly he backed a
recreation program within the army. He
did all that he could to strengthen the
work of War Camp Community Service in
cities and towns near military camps in the
United States so that the recreation con-
ditions around the camps should help in
making life as normal as possible for the
young men before they went abroad.

It was Newton D. Baker who chose Raymond D.
Fosdick to serve as Chairman of the Commis-
sion on Training Camp Activities of the War
Department. He also selected Joseph Lee,
President of the National Recreation Associa—
tionI and others to serve with Mr. Fosdick,
and did what he could to make the work of
this Commission effective. In the years after
the war was over Newton D. Baker spoke with
pride of the way in which the army of the
United States had been kept comparatively
tree from disease. His leadership did much
to strengthen the popular support for recrea-
tion activities in the United States and those
who work in the recreation movement will
always owe a debt of gratitude to him.

War Department were not
pigmies; they were not self-
effacing “yes-men.” The
army does not turn out that

type of person. There were
Bliss and March as Chiefs

of Staff— both of them
powerful, dynamic charac-
ters. There were men like
Crowder and Crozier and
Goethals and Hugh John—
son. There was Pershing
overseas who spoke from
the shoulder and was ac—
customed to authority. And
among them all moved Mr. Baker—physically a
little man, who never pounded a table and never
raised his voice, but who intellectually was the
acknowledged master of them all.

It was indeed an incredible performance. Here
was a man who, while he had made an indelible
impression on his city and his state, was not
known to the nation at large when he came to
Washington. In his first interview with newspa-
permen he was put down as a spineless pacifist
who would last but a few months. They prophe—
sied that the lions in the War Department and the
tigers in Congress would soon eat him up. By
sheer force of character, by the incisiveness and
drive of his own mind he not only gained the as-
cendency over Congress and the army, but he
mastered the administration of the largest col-
lective enterprise in which this country has ever
been involved.

And he performed this miracle with the quiet
modesty and the serenity of spirit that were so
characteristic of him. He never seemed excited
and never was harassed. Even when things were
blackest—when, for exam—
ple, he was himself the
target of cruel, baseless
charges—he never lost his
temper or his equanimity.
He was utterly without
cynicism. He was too ju—
dicial to be vindictive, too
completely master of him-
self to be betrayed into
anger. His spirit was cast
in too large a mould for
pettiness or vanity. I am
quite sure that he never

(Continued on page 47)

_ Recreation 'in the Southern Highlands

HE study of
T“lorigins”

is a favor-
ite one. In the
Southern Hi gh—
lands one re—
c a l l s C e c i l
Sharp’s historic
pilgrimages.
Pine Mountain
S e t t l e m e n t
School has 'a
lovely tradition
of folk dancing
begun by Mr.
Sharp. From
the John C.
Campbell Folk
School Georg Bidstrup’s Danish sing-
ing games have spread into remote
corners. In September, 1933, the, writer, in co-
operation with Miss Helen H. Dingman, started
the “Itinerant Service” of the Conference of
Southern Mountain Workers. i

Courtesy Frank H. Smith

The “Itinerant Service” Begins Its Program

On November 20, 1937, a play day was held in
Cooper Hall at the Robinson Experiment Station,
Quicksand, Kentucky, which brought a hundred
and thirty people together for participation in and
exhibition of singing games, folk dancing, wood
carving, singing and puppetry. These enthusiasts
drove through a snowstorm over icy roads. A
number of visitors accompanying Chester Bower
of the University of Louisville had the hardihood
to undertake a 200-mile journey to see what we
were doing and to share the occasion as par-
ticipants.

The folk dances and sing-
ing games constituted . the
major activity. English coun-
try dances and a Morris
dance, Scandinavian singing
games, American singing
games, noticeably including
Old Dan Tucker, a genuine
illustration of traditional
American folk dance, were

 

By FRANK H. SMITH

“In The Arts Workshop of Rural

America Marjorie Patten has written a
'truly exciting book which holds promise
of the great things that may come from
our countryside.' This article will furnish
a footnote to her inspiring chronicle. A
good deal will be said about the Moun-
tain Folk Festival. which has none of the
paraphernalia of a tournament' but is a
simple and joyous gathering of youth to
build the fellowship of good times."

engaged in for
delight and fel-
lowship. The
circles moved
gaily over the
door of the
vast building
which fifteen
years ago was
a storage ware-
house and store
of a large lum-
bering enter-
prise. The late
Mr. E. 0. Rob-
inson muniti-
cently present-
ed the property,
which included I 5,000 acres, to the
University of Kentucky. I remember
how this large—hearted business man years ago
told a group of us about his recent journey to
Europe where he had seen expressions of peasant
culture in skillful gardening and in the native
dances of those peoples. ~He dreamed that a
similar spontaneous social joy might blossom in
these stark and lonely hills of Eastern Kentucky.

This was the first gathering of its kind under
a new recreational plan in which are cooperating
the Conference of Southern Mountain Workers,
Berea College, and the University of Kentucky.
Berea has become our recreational headquarters.
For several years, in fact, members of the Physi-
cal Education Department and other teachers
have ably contributed to recreational activities on
the Berea Campus. A new departure in the De—
partment of Sociology will establish a lecture and
laboratory course, listed as
“Recreation” in the Lower
Division, with a hobby cen-
ter and an extension service
to the neighboring rural
schools. Field work will have
an equal share under this
new arrangement. The Uni—
versity of Kentucky has es—
tablished for Eastern Ken-
tucky a regional headquarters

13

14 RECREATION IN THE SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS

at the Robinson Experiment Station; Alpine In-
stitute, with the active cooperation of the Save the
Children Fund, has likewise become a regional
center. The important Itinerant Service of the
Conference of Southern Mountain Workers is
being continued successfully by Richard Seaman.

The Third Annual Mountain Festival

A larger festive occasion than the recent play
day at Quicksand will be the third annual Moun-
tain Folk Festival to be held at Berea College,
April 4-5, 1938. In March, 1937, at the Uni-
versity of 'Tennessee, in collaboration with the
Twenty-fifth Southern Mountain Workers Con-
ference, the second folk festival was an unprece-
dented success. Original mountain plays were
produced by the John C. Campbell Folk School,
Brasstown, North Carolina; by Homeplace, Ary,
Kentucky, and a group of women from Gatlin-
burg, Tennessee, in the Great Smoky National
Park. Authentic tang of mountain idiom, sym—
pathetic portrayal of character, representation of
mountain customs of passing generations may be
found in this simple dramasl' The existing tran-
sition state of life in the Southern Highlands re-
minds one of the remarks of John Millington
Synge about the magnificent speech and gestures
of the Aran Islanders, whose “Elizabethan traits”
helped to glorify a fatalistic and melancholy
society.

Each year a certain number of singing games,
folk songs and folk dances are selected for the
folk festival. Thus when the groups assemble all
have a common stock of knowledge; without loss
of time it becomes possible to unite in enjoyment
of these lovely traditional activities. In addition,
groups may demonstrate special games, songs, or
dances. No prizes or ribbons reward demonstrat—
ing groups. The element of competition is not en—
couraged, but, human nature not being above
temptation, we inevitably compare the demonstra—
tions. As a source of inspiration they have a
great value, and a group has the satisfaction of
making its distinctive contribution to the beauty
and worth of the occasion.

If mention may be made on the grounds of
seniority of two groups of folk dancers, one may
refer briefly to the Pine Mountain Settlement
School and the John C. Campbell Folk School.
The lovely country dancing of the Pine Mountain
students displays a naturalness which may lend
weight to the remark of Glyn Morris that English
dancing suits the historical background of the

mountain people. And the universality of folk
material is undoubtedly illustrated by the success-
ful adoption of Danish singing games and folk
dances at Brasstown where English and American
dances are also done.

An important element at the folk festivals is
the traditional “Running Set” or “Square Dance,”
as the circle formations are usually called. With
this one associates mountain singing games like
Jubilee and Jump Josie. The names of well-
known figures are picturesque: Ocean Wave,
Wagon Wheel, Birdie in the Cage, Shoot the Owl,
Double Bow Knot. At Homeplace,- Ary, Ken-
tucky, the figures are known by the collective
name of Sugar on the Floor. Presentation of this
type of folk material was made at the first Folk
Festival by Carr Creek Community Center; at the
second by Homeplace. Other traditional Ameri-
can singing games which enrich the folk festivals
are drawn from Lynn Rohrbough’s collections.

The wealth of folk song to which Mrs. Olive
D..Campbell introduced Mr. Cecil Sharp, whose
adventures in the Southern Highlands are fas-
cinatineg described in “Cecil Sharp”* by A. H.
Fox Strangways in collaboration with Maud Kar-
peles, represented in our Folk Festivals. In addi-
tion to the general use of native ballads and carols
for group singing, local variants of these exquisite
and fresh creations of past centuries are sung and
dramatized by particular groups. Hindman Set~

tlement School has given delightful contributions
of this nature.

Wood Carving

\Vood carving is a hobby which appeals in-
stantly to people in the mountains. The little
carved animals of Brasstown and more recently of.
Pleasant Hill Academy and of Berea College have
become so well known that one thinks of them
first, but in most communities one hears of the
creations of a local carver. Frequently these whit-
tlers have something very good to show you. One
boy I became acquainted with recently carves
horses——both draft and race horses. They are
finely done. The other day a man asked to see
my carvings. He told me he had for several years
“carved out” dolls; in fact, he said, he carves any-
thing “he takes a notion to.” He borrowed from
my folder a design of leaves and fruit. At once

 

'i'Two original plays produced at the first mountain folk festival
have recently appeared in Three Folk Play: from the South-
ern Mountains, Recreation Kit No. 43, published by the Co-
operative Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. 25c.

* Oxford University Press.

RECREATION IN THE SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS . 15,3-

he began to make the chips fly as he worked skill-
fully with his sharp pocketknife.

And so my carving classes have been a joy.
The eager questions the whittlers ask and their
deep satisfaction in showing me their work are
an evidence of a significant educational process at
work. An appreciation of craftsmanship is some-
thing most real in human nature. Hobbies and
crafts have an important place in personality de-
velopment. Consider a boy in my carving class
last winter. His school principal said, “This is
the best thing that ever came into the boy’s life.
Nothing before this has ever interested him. He
always was into something.” He was younger
than most members of the class, but his output of
work was about the largest. In quality his carv-
ings were among the best. The pleasure of his
mother in his hobby was expressed in her remark
that now “he was a-settin’ at home.”

Puppets, Stories and Traditional Games

The Punch and Judy show is a nine days’ won-
der in the mountains. Most of the folks who see
it have not previously witnessed a puppet or mari-
onette performance. Gales of laughter sweep
through the audiences. The most remarkable ex-
planations are offered. One girl said this morning
as one having inside know1edge, “I know what
makes tham work -— electricity.” Often the
younger children have no idea that I talk .for the
dolls. One boy in a playground stopped as if he
had been shot when, in Punch’s voice, I said,
“That’s the way to do it; that’s
the way I do it.” He looked dumb-
founded as he cried, “Why, that
fellow can talk like Mr. Punch.”
Stories are one of the best educa-
tional tools I have ever used. I
suppose it is true that we tend to
think in pictures. It was no acci-
dent that the storyteller or minstrel
was an important personage in the
Middle Ages. Tolstoy’s Twenty-
Three Tales has served a purpose
in my recreational work which I
believe the great Russian writer
himself would have entirely ap-
proved. Thousands of people have
listened with profound interest to
stories with a universal appeal like
“What Men Live By.” A story is
an admirable starting point for a
group discussion. Shrewd com-

ments will be ventured among any group of peo- -
ple upon the actions of an interesting character in
a good story.

The traditional games which have been col-
lected and popularized by Lynn Rohrbough are
a valuable addition to the resources of. any recre-
ation leader. Some, like Wari and Go, are novel
in principle. The former is a game played by
African natives. One Southerner said frankly
while learning it: “Well, if the Africans can play
this game, they’re smarter than I thought they
were.” The making of these games is itself an
interesting hobby. I have taught game-making to
boys and girls who had no pennies to buy the in-
expensive, pretty marbles that add so much to the
attractiveness of the games. But we found by
cutting branches from trees the thickness of a
person’s finger it was possible to whittle pegs
which, when painted various bright colors and
titted into holes, served the same purpose and

were very attractive.

Play Production Under Difficulties

In play production one enjoys many varied ex-
periences. The town of Norris (to say nothing
of Norris Dam) was magically coming to birth.
The community hall was ringing with carpenters’

Whether "Punch and Judy" in the Southern High-
lands or "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" in
Hartford. ConnecticutI the appeal is universal!

 

16 RECREATION IN THE SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS

hammers. A new bunk house was springing up
over night. It may have slight leaning on the
story, but mud in the “streets” was almost in
liquid form. The cafeteria was the most delight-
ful (not to say the dryest) place in Norris. There
we met for-dramatic rehearsals. The clatter of
dishes and the hum of conversation served as an
original and somewhat distracting artistic back-
ground. So mueh so, in fact, that when we could
rehearse during the day, we fled to the woods.
Some nights when the cafeteria was crowded we
met in the parlor of the Women’s Building. I
admit our presence may have been disconcerting
to young couples enjoying a date!

When our performance of three one-act plays
was given we actually gathered in the unfinished
community hall. I presume the event may have
been an unofficial housewarming. We drew liber-
ally upon the bunk houses for blankets in order
to improvise stage curtains. The obliging electric-
ians had rigged up temporary stage lights—the
auditorium was in total darkness! The audience
was comfortably seated on planks suspended
across nail kegsw—but principally they were sitting
like Orientals on the floor. When the plays were
over—and generously applauded—and the audi-
ence was going home, the cast lingered. Some
good reason held them. We took down the cur-

tains ; we cleared away the properties and we had
a good old—time square dance!

Potential Playwrights

While at the John C. Campbell Folk School in
charge of extension recreation an opportunity
came to observe and to share the group playwrit-
ing leaderShip. The gathering of the students
after Christmas is the sign that a plot must be
found. This usually is accomplished only with the
help of Mrs. Campbell, who has suggestions to
make from her store of ballads and folk tales. A
simple story in some ballad serves as a jumping-
off point only. Each potential playwright writes
the story in old—fashioned mountain dialogue.
Then with trepidation these budding authors have
their creations read in class. At this point the
process becomes, to say the least, complex. Pos-
sibly the scrambling of ideas is a fair descriptiori.
When group free-for-all criticism has done its
dreadful work, members of the class resume in-
dividual composition, or small groups may write
together. \Vhen that has been accomplished, the
second drafts are ready for reading, the class
meets again as a sort of “committee of the whole.”

These second versions will display things strange
and new; for by this time the original plot may
have suffered a sea-change. Out of a second period
of group criticism and selection may emerge an
arrangement of situations in blocks or dialogue
which constitutes in effect the potential play.
Probably at this crucial point a few brave students
become a sort of committee, and take the materi—
als in their own hands. When they have finished
the play.to the best of their ability, the result is
submitted for approval to the entire class. Before
venturing to cast the play, the manuscript is read
to a few outstanding older Brasstown citizens.
They pass judgment upon the authenticity of the
play in speech and custom to the life of that par-
ticular region of Western North Carolina.

No claim is made at the Folk School that these
simple plays are important as literature. But when
acted by the students the drama becomes rich in
atmosphere. The presentations are sometimes
charming _: they are always worth seeing.

The cultural value of a genuine recreational
movement is great. This is no mere superficial
fancy. The roots of activities in which we may
find a creative outlet lie deep in human history.
Dr. L. P. Jacks has said that man is a “skill—
hungry animal.” In the present machine age most
people may turn to arts and crafts and find therein
springs of a more abundant life. To recreation
leaders one may quote Marjorie Patten’s utiliza—
tion of Disraeli’s coded message at the opening of

the Suez Canal: “The celery is ripe and ready to
cut.”

“The rural arts are as varied as the flowers in
an old-fashioned garden. They appear in all the
different moving patterns of rural life: now in
acting, streaked and shot through with genius, on
every kind of stage, from the makeshift platform
on wheels to the beautifully-equipped laboratory
on a campus; now in circles of dancing figures
weaving in and out among the shadows in the bril—
liant costumes of many lands; now in music with
great choruses gathered together from crossroads
communities, some of them as far away as a day’s
journey in fast cars; in games and coverlets, in
rugs and in paintings; in revivals of old folk art
and music; in pageants bringing to life the whole
vivid development of this country of ours.”—

114 arjorie Patten in The Arts W arias/40p of Rural
America.

Hobbies Flourish in Louisiana

5 I TRAVELED down
A through the rural
areas of Louisiana
recently, I got a glimpse

l-low books are helping the citizens of
Louisiana's rural districts to develop
hobbies and recreational activities

tion of the people. They
find in the new books
information for the de-
velopment of hobbies,

of what the new library
prOgram in this south—
ern state means in
terms of recreation for .
the people—both children and grown—ups.

It must be explained at the beginning that
never before have the people of Louisiana been
so favored with library books—thanks to state
funds recently made available. The Louisiana Li—
brary Commission, with headquarters in Baton
Rouge, is mailing out a larger percentage of books
each month to rural families scattered in isOlated
communities throughout the state. To keep abreast

of the special requests from these borrowers, the -

Commission is adding about 500 new books every
month to its collection of 35,000 volumes.
Furthermore, the Commission has set up a li—
brary demonstration this year at W innheld which
is lending some 17,000 books
a month to people who never
knew library service be—
fore. The fact that a
thousand new borrow—
ers a month are being
added indicates how
eager these people are
for good reading. In
addition to this intro—
duction of books into
regions where there
were formerly practi-
cally no books, the
State Board of Educa-
tion spent $2 50,000 last
year for library books
for schools just as it
had formerly supplied
them with textbooks.

Effect on Recreation

\Vith this new library
program in mind. then,
it is interesting to see
its effect on the recrea-

By MARGARET Roor ZAHLER

Men are asking for books on fishing,
boat building and motor boat racing

 

Courtesy Louisiana Library Commission

material for community
singing, ideas for
games, stunts, parties,

. programs for women’s
clubs. Just reading itself has become a hobby
with many.

In Hodge, a paper mill town in a cut—over pine
section, wives of the mill workers have been bor-
rowing books from one of these new branch li—
braries in a neighboring town. Hodge is a pros-
perous mill—owned town, but it has no high school
dramatics, and these women think that the town
needs “more fun:” They are undertaking to es—
tablish a little theater. “Technique of Acting,”
"The Little Theater Movement in America,” “Act—
ing and Play Production,” and other books on
the drama and the technique of producing plays
have been borrowed by some twelve or fifteen
wOmen who are using them as
the groundwork for their first
undertaking in setting
up a little theater.

Up in Webster Par—
ish in the northern part
of the state where there
are several large bayous
and where boating is a
popular sport, the
youngsters and grown—
ups are leaning heavily
on libraries for infor—
mation on fishing, boat-
building, motor boat
racing and construction
of house boats. Most of
the boats adrift on the
bayou are home-con-
structed affairs made
from books studied in
the library. In this par-
ish also, books on swim—
ming, tennis and golf
are seldom left on the
shelves. Frequently

‘9'-

: I

18 HOBBIES FLOURISH IN LOUISIANA

tennis courts are laid out from instructions found
in books.

An informal group of some eighty girls and
women in another parish decided to take gym—
nasium exercises. They got their cues from books.
Then they extended their activities to hiking and
outdoor sports and finally into a club which met
frequently in members’ homes. The members de-
pended upon library books for ideas for table
decoration and for their other recreational ac—
tivities.

Indian relics are an absorbing interest in one
section of the cut—over pine region. An “Indian
evening”. was staged recently when several local
collectors were invited to display their fiints,
tomahawks, and other treasures. A CCC camp
captain and adult education teacher had gathered
Indian relics with the boys and mounted them.
To aid in all of this Indian study, the library sup-
plied books on customs of Indians and everything
relating to early Indian °days in Louisiana. The
local librarian even sent to the
Congressional Library in Wash—
ington, D. (3., for books on the
identifications of specimens.

Other hobbies have been en-
- couraged by ideas gleaned from
the new library books. Kite fiy—
ing has had a great impetus in
VVinnfield this spring. Here the
library is less than a year old. The yOUng men
have discovered books on box kites and other
fancy ones and are being quite successful in fiying
them out on the edge of town.

Hobby Displays in Libraries
Hobby displays are often held in libraries show~
ing the interest people have taken in wood whit—

tling, soap carving, building models of boats, auto— .

mobiles, trains. Books on how to Whittle and how
to succeed in the “tin can art” are always in de-
mand. A hobby parade and later a “pet” parade
were held by a tiny branch library. The inspira-
tion came from library books and many young-
sters afterwards read books on the care of pets
and how to feed them.

In Sabine Parish, over near the Texas border,
patch-work quilts were stretched Out for the
townspeople to admire, along with model air-
planes, bird houses and boats in a hobby exhibit.
In several of the parishes the most sought after
book is the following (we quote the title in full)
“101 Patchwork Patterns; Quilt name stories,

"It is not surprising that some
300,000 people are now enrolled
in the citizens' library movement
to support the Library Com—
mission's appeal for increased
funds to extend library service
to all the people of the state."

cutting designs, material suggestions, yardage es-
timates, definite instructions for every step of
quilt making.”

Many of these rural people, it appears, do much
quilting. In their little clapboard cabins they have
a quilting frame on pulleys which is pulled up to
the ceiling when not in use and then quickly let
down when the women are ready for work.

A New Thrill for School Children

How school children are responding to the new
library books and what fun they are getting out of
many of the beautifully illustrated books for
young people were noted in the library at \Vinn-
field, set up this year in a former bank building.
Youngsters gather after school, thrilled with their
first chance to take books from the shelves in a
public library. On Saturday afternoons they have
the story hour when they huddle close to the story-
teller and then scatter to find other books on the
open shelves an entirely new experience for them.

One. day the fourth graders
came down to the library to put
on a “shadow play.” Grown—ups
and children alike crowded into
the one room library waiting for
the lights to go out and for “Jack
and Jill” to cast their silhouettes
on the screen. A safety skit, also
in shadow play fashion, completed

the program. It was the first time a book on

shadow plays had appeared in the town and the

youngsters made the most of it.

Taking Books to the Bookless

It probably is no coincidence that two recent
movements in Louisiana have been running side
by side. One is the campaign on the part of the
Louisiana Library Commission, with Miss Essae
Martha Culver as executive secretary, to introduce
libraries into parishes hitherto entirely bookless.
Starting in a small way in 1925, the Commission
is now taking long strides toward its goal of get-
ting books out to everybody. In the May legis-
lature it is appealing for $700,000 appropriation
a year to continue to spread books into many of
the parishes still without service. .,

The other movement, started in 1925 by Miss
Mary Mims, is the organizing'of communities so
that the people will work and play together, doing
things for the enrichment of living. The people
can fruit in a common kitchen which they have
built, go out in large groups to clean up the little

HOBBIES FLOURISH IN LOUISIANA 19

cemetery, improve the school yard, and perform
civic improvement jobs.

Recreation is one of the four Objectives set
down by Miss Mims for each community to work
for, the other three being health, economics and
citizenship. Some parishes have as many as twen-
ty—five organized communities and in the entire
state the number has risen now to about 559.

As soon as a community has decided on its
particular objective for the year, the people begin
to write into the Library Commission at Baton
Rouge for books which are delivered them by
mail. One requirement in the recreation project
is that the people learn ten songs. “Give me a
singing community and I know the people will be
happy,” said Miss Mims when she was telling me
about the newest recreation projects. She is en-
couraging communities now to build little parks
with tables and benches for recreation centers to
take the place of road houses and taverns. She
tells the young folks in these communities, and
they listen to her, too, that in order really to have
a good time they must “create something,” build
something. or construct something. She says,
“Wholesome recreation is creative.”

“Miss Mary” urges the,communities to build
barbecue pits, grates for wiener roasts and chicken
frys—a place for moonlight picnics. The people
organized into recreational groups by,Miss Mims
write into the Library Commission for books on
games, stunts. They ask for information on Val-
entine parties, Fourth of July celebrations, and
Easter hunts.

A’few of these tiny little communities have una'
dertaken to sponsor a branch-"library. Others are_ j;

appealing to the Commission to place one of these
little branches in their crossroads store, filling
station. or farmer’s house.

Books by Mail

But there are still hundreds of people in Louisi-
ana who are living in isolated farm homes where
there are no organized communities, no church,
no school, no libraries, consequently they depend
on the Commission to send them books by mail.
The book arrives free of charge, and is returned
usually at a cost of about three cents.

Sitting up in the eighteenth floor of the new
modern capitol building overlooking the Missis-
sippi winding its way to the Gulf, I was given ac-
cess in Miss Culver’s office to cards of requests
which stream into the Commission's headquarters
each day. These reveal what are the peoples’ in-

terests out in the very rural areas and what some

of them do in their leisure time with the use of
books.

One man wrote in that he had killed a calf and

.that the hide was so beautiful he wished to

preserve it. He wanted a book on tanning. One
book after another has been sent him for he now
tans enough hides to make all the leather needed
to mend his harness. His latest news, sent with
his last request, was that he was contracting with a
company in Texas to supply hides to be made into
books.‘ The Commission had borrowed books
from the John Crerar Library in Chicago to sat-
isfy his particular technical requests. In his last
letter the farmer wrote that the books were sav-
ing him about $200 a year.

One man on a three acre farm began to raise
frogs a few years ago as a hobby. He wrote for
books and became so successful that he is now
doing it for commercial purposes. Another man
started to renovate old furniture ‘through the use
of books just to fill in his leisure time, but it be-
came so profitable that he is starting a repair shop
at home. He has asked successively for books on
repairing chairs, upholstering, finishing woods. His
“latest requests were for. information on painting
and the use of spray guns. its" 4»

Over the state there are about fifty women’s
clubs writing in for books to reinforce them in
their programs" ranging in topics all the way from
“Japan and China” to “Purchasing for the Home”
and from world economics to home furnishing.

No wonder that some 300,000 citizens are now

'enrolled in the Citizens Library movement to sup—

port the eLibrary Commission’s ‘appeal- for in-
creased funds to extend library service to all the
people of the state.

“A good book is a permanent thing, to be read,
thought about, enjoyed, read again as often as
one likes, and so to become food for the brain
and sustenance for the heart. . . . Take time, then,
to read good books, for here are the deepest wells
of the human spirit. .Great men and women have
fed these wells that all of us may drink from them
and find strength and refreshment. To form the
habit of reading good books so that such reading
becomes a necessity is the one sure means of edu-
cation, of continual development, of lasting inner
content." -— Pearl Buck W alsh in The Library

Journal, April 15, 1937.

Music ls Fun!

I’I‘H THE advent of music
w appreciation hours, music
instruction by radio, and‘
the steady increase of business ‘
enjoyed by the “music by mail” houses, we be—
come mindful of a growth in musical participa-
tion and interest. Articles and advertisements ap—
pear everywhere tempting young and old to master
the guitar or the accordion. in ten easy lessons.
Schools are reinstating long defunct music depart—
ments, and the movie house around the corner
begs you to join in on the chorus and follow the
bouncing ball. Yet with all this'thrust upon us,
the held for musical enjoyment is far from ex-
hausted. A recreation department can enjoy a
“field day” when it comes to planning the musical
program.
Several years ago, in an effort to introduce in-
strumental music instruction, try-outs were held
in each of our Danville community centers for the

By ROBERT L. HORNEY

Superintendent of Recreation
DanvilleI Illinois

first two weeks of the season.
At this time children interested
in music were given trials with
. the various instruments of the
band or orchestra in order to determine their lit-
ness for a definite type of instrument. From those
who registered for the first try—out session, small
classes were formed in each location with orches—
tral instruction for beginners and groups for
plectrum instruments.

As classes continued and the center organiza—
tions began making public appearances, interest
and participation increased. After each public per-
formance more children were attracted to mem—
bership and study. Now so much interest is main—
tained in each center’s group meeting that absence
is the exception.

The sustained interest of the grOUps may be at-

tributed to the objectives held before,them by
- (Continued on page 49)

 

20

A Sugar Bush Festival

An informal account of an equally informal
party immensely enioyed by some city folks.
We suggest you try to answer the questions!

SUGAR BUSH FESTIVAL is an' old-time, al-

most forgotten frolic which “Cap’n Bill”

Vinal has revived in several communities.
The sap’s running near Cincinnati! Let’s go with
him there. Here are the plans:

Cap’n Bill says we’d better wear rubbers and
dress warme and we’re to go, rain or shine. We
can bring our friends. Guess there’ll be about a
hundred there. We are going to Charles Baker’s
Sugar Orchard on a 250 acre farm. Cap’n Bill
has given us directions and says we can’t miss it,
no matter how hard we try!

\Vhat are we going to do? At two o’clock we
meet at the sugar camp and see the “boiling
down.” We can help gather sap and there’s a 60
year old sap stove. At three o’clock Cap’n Bill
will take us through the Sugar Orchard to see
“sugar” trees 150 years old, black walnuts 30
inches in diameter and mulberry trees which tower
with the others. He’says he’s going to give us a
mimeographed set of fifty questions and we’re to
find out the answers during the walk. Here is a
set. Some of these questions are posers, but
Cap’n Bill says we’ll know the answers when
we’re done. \Ve’ve smuggled a set of answers
which we’ve put at the end of this, but try to
answer them before you “look on page 22” as the
newspaper and magazine question boxes say.

“City Slicker” Can You

3. When was maple sugar a necessity and when

was

II.
I2.

I3.

did it become a luxury?

4. What is the real sugar tree?
5.
6

. Name a state in which the maple is the state

What part of the tree is the sugar factory?

tree?
How much maple sugar is made in Europe?

. For what purpose do they use an axe in the

maple sugar camp?

. What is ideal maple sugar weather?
. What are two distinguishing characteristics of

maple sugar buds?

What is the purpose of maple sugar?

Of what material was the sap spout in the
Indian days? In the present day?

Does the tapping of the tree leave a wound
which will usually be infected by fungi?
What was the Indian method of concentrat-
ing the sugar?

. What 'is the longest tapping season?

From what direction does the sap come?

. On what side of the tree does the sap iiow

first?

. What causes the sap to flow?

Name four animals (other than man) which

have discovered that maple sap is good.

What were the earliest vessels for collecting

maple sap?

21. About how much sap is
required to make one

Answer These?

I. Who wrote the follow-
ing lines?
“I wonder if the sap is stirring
Yet,
If frozen snowdrops feel as yet
the sun.

I am still sore in doubt con-
cerning spring.”

2. Anyone going to the

“Sugar Bush” ought to be
versed in “Sugar Bush”
parlance. What do the
following terms mean?
“Treacle” “Sugar off”

“First run” “Stone-boat”
“Caldron kettles”

In the spring of I937. when Dr. William G.
Vinall affectionately known to thousands as
"Cap'n Bill." was taking part as specialist
in nature activities in the institutes conduct-
ed by the National Recreation Association
in Cincinnati and Pittsburgh. he made the
happy discovery that the sap was running

in the maple trees and "sugaring-off" waS'

to,tal<e place on farms near these cities.
After conferring with the owners of the
farms and with officials of the recreation
departments. Dr. Vinal arranged for "Sugar
Bush Festivals" which would provide city
folks with an opportunity to share in
this interesting old-time activity and to
enioy a real country dinner and dance.

22.

23.

24.

26.

quart of sirup?
What should be the size

and position of the hole
for sap how?

Through what part or
parts of ‘the tree does
sap fiow?

What is the purpose of
a “neck yoke”?

. What is the advantage

of locating a
house on a slope?

Why is skimming nec-
essary?

sugar

21

22 ' i A SUGAR BUSH FESTIVAL

27. How is the “evaporator”
prevented from boiling

28. How many pounds should
maple sirup weigh to the
standard United States
gallon?

29. If a utensil has a full gal-
lon when the liquid is hot,
will it be a full gallon when
cold? Why?

30: Why did “sugaring off” always occur at night
in colonial times?

3t. From what maples can sugar be made?

32. How is “maple wax” made?

33. What New England state is the most impor-
tant producer of maple sugar?

34. What is often used to adulterate maple sugar?

35. How is the sugar separated from the water
in sugar making?

36. What were the three commonest articles of
barter of our early forefathers?

37. How much sugar will a sugar maple tree yield
in one season?

38. What causes maple sirup to crystalize?

39. How much maple sugar is produced in the
United States annually?

40. How can the concentration of the sirup be
told by a thermometer? '

4I. What other instrument is often used to de-
termine the density of the liquid?

42. Why is the “evaporator” made of metal?

43. Why did cane and be’et sugar take the place
of maple sugar?

44. Why will the .maple sUgar industry probably
not pass into the hands of a corporation?

45. Which appear first on the maple sugar tree,
the flowers or leaves?

46. What causes the sap to ferment?

47. Why does fruiting cause the sugar maple and
not the red maple to fork at the twigs?

48. What causes “Bird’s~Eye” maple?

49. Is maple sugar a confecti'on or a food?

50. What is the maple tree borer?

By five we’ll have found the answers and be

hungry as wolves. They’ve planned on that,

though, and supper is to be served them at.the

Washington School House just an eighth of a

mile from the Baker’s homestead. Here’s the

menu: mashed potatoes, creamed chicken, hot
biscuits, lots of maple sugar and hot coffee—and
all for fifty cents! ,Mr. Baker is going to show
us how his grandfather roasted chicken at sugar-

Pittsburgh, tool held a sugar bush
festival very similar to that which
overp Cincinnati enjoyed. So popular did

° it prove that on March 20thI I938.
the Bureau of Recreation of Pitts-
burgh repeated the event under the
title "Sugaring-ofi and Field Day."
The function was held at Ray Bald-
win's‘ Sugar Camp about titty-eight
miles from the city. And again
a substantial supper was served.

ing time. There’ll be a sugar
“stirring off” and we can' use
the paddles we made in the
orchard. After supper they’ve
planned a “hoe—down” with an
old-time fiddler and “caller” for
the square dances. Luke Mc—
Luke says if he gets through
milkin’ in time he’ll fetch over
his corn fiddle. “Kentucky
Belle” will yodel just after the
Virginy Reel and Tam Deering and the village
school ma’rm will lead the grand march.

Going? So are we. And there’ll be one in
Pittsburgh in April. Perhaps we can go there,
too.

P. S. Cap’n Bill says to bring some extra money
and some jars in case we want to take home a
gallon or so of maple sirup and to bring paper
bags to carry the specimens or loot we find in
the orchard.

Answers to Questions on Maple Sugar

I. Christian C. Rossetti in “The First Spring
Day.”

2. “Treacle” is the sirup drained from sugar in
refining. “First run” is the first few weeks
that the sap is flowing. “Stone-boat” is the
sled which is drawn by horses or oxen to
bring the sap to sugar house. “Caldron ket-
tles” are the large iron kettles in which the
sap was formerly boiled down. “Sugar off”
is the changing of the thick sirup to sugar.

3. In colonial times maple sugar was considered
a necessity. It is now a luxury.

4. The honey locust bean is 20 per cent sugar
and the sap of the sugar maple is only, 3 to 6
per cent sugar.

5. The leaves are the factories where starch and
sugar is manufactured.

Rhode Island.
Maple sugar is an American product. It is

not made in Europe.

The axe is used to cut firewood and not to

scarf the trees.

9. Thawing days and freezing nights.

IO. Sharp—pointed buds with many bud scales.

II. To make new leaves and wood.

12. The Indians made the sap spout from sumac
or elder stems. They are made of galvanized
metal. ' ‘

I3. The wounds made by the augur usually heal
in one season and are not infected.

(Continued on page 52)

319‘

9°

Today’s
Boy and Girl

"Are the boys and girls of today. because
of their changing environmentl so differ-
ent from fhe boys and girls of the period
when the National Recreation Association
came info being as to require a different
recreation program?" This is Mr. Brandon's
question as he himself phrases if. and he
gives some of the reasons why he believes
if is necessary for recreation workers to
give most careful thought fo the problems
involved. You may not entirely agree either
with Mr. Brandon's premise or conclu-
sions, but you will feell we believe. that
he is presenting a challenge to his fellow
workers which merits their consideration.
What is your answer to the challenge?

Photo by William Newkirk, Cambridge, Massachusetts

HE PAST twenty-five years have seen our pro-

gram grow from simple sandbox activities to

a program which offers to its public a variety
of activities in athletics, music, drama, and art in
their highest creative forms.

In spite of the growth of these interesting and '

satisfying activities statistics indicate that partici-
pation in many of our popular games of a decade
ago is declining. John R. Tunis in an article “A
Nation of Onlookers” in the August issue of the
Atlantic Monthly suggests that “spectatoritis,” de-
fined by Dr. Hedley Dimock as “the unexercised
multitude watching the overexercised few,” has
greatly decimated the ranks of the performers.
This is not a disease of maturity, but one which
has assumed considerable virulence among adoles-
cents. Mr. Tunis makes one rather startling com-
ment which should be of great concern to recrea—
tion directors. “Maybe,” he says, “this American
method of forcing games down the throats of our
children is one reason for the apparent lessening
of interest in athletic participation.”

This is a direct challenge to our recreation pro-
gram which requires very earnest consideration
on the part of recreation workers.

 

By GRANT C. BRANDON

Direcfor of Recreation
Lancaster' Pennsylvania

Do we, in our enthusiasm to have every child
participate in some form of activity, force our
program on him to the extent of present satiation
and of later revulsion as the child enters adoles-
cence and assumes greater control over his en-
vironment? Have we done what our predecessors
did—used the printed forms with very little think—
ing on our part as to the possible changing needs
of our little customers? we have failed at times
to discover the needs and preferences of our con-
stituents and in a majority of cases we have failed
because we have reared them as “only children.”
We present our program and hope it will work,
and if it is not one hundred per cent successful,
we think the children are ungrateful.

Shall we continue to bend the children to fit our
programs, or shall we, with some degree of scien-
tific approach, fit our programs to meet the chang—
ing needs of the children? Mrs. Emily Post,
speaking at the N ew York Times National Book

23

24 TODAY’S BOY AND GIRL

Fair, states, “Instead “of teaching my readers the
conventions nowadays, I find'I have to adopt the
conventions to my young readers. Chaperones
have disappeared and“ the'younger generation has
taken the bit in its teeth.”

Undoubtedly the present generation is not as
submissive as their elders were. It is an open
question whether they know what they want, but
they are at least articulate on the question as to
what they do not want! A key to this change may
be found by contrasting the environmental dif—
ferences which have had their effect on our young

people.

Then—and Now

When our National Association Was born over
thirty years ago, the youth of our country shared
in the hardships as well as the joys and pleasures
of a family life in which problems were worked
'out together. In those “good old days,” (as some
people like, to call them), superfiuity was not in
evidence either in the matter of food or the where-
withall to gratify the pleasures as we now under-
stand pleasures. At that period of our history
physical development was not as rapid due to less
scientific eating, harder physicalework and less
stimulating conditions of life which resulted in
slower maturing.

The child of that period had a magnified appre-
ciation of the little things of life. The day of the
mechanical toy had not arrived. The little girl, if
she had a doll, made it herself out of rags. The
rag doll received the same love and tender devo-
tion that the painted doll receives today. The lit-
tle boy of that period also made his own toys.
His chief source of joy was a ball made from
odds and ends of string and yarn, and if he was
lucky enough to have a small rubber ball for a
center around which he wrapped the string, he
was the envy of the entire community’sboyhood
population.

Heavy playground equipment in those days con-
sisted of a plank placed between the fence rails to
make a see-saw, and a rope over the limb of an
old apple tree for a swing. The “Junglegym” in
its original form was a favorite climbing tree be-
fore it became modernized as a set of pipes and
bolts placed at regular intervals and planted in our
city park for the benefit of children who are not
allowed to climb trees.

Indoor games consisted of parchesi, checkers,
crokinole, and tiddle—de-winks, and for a real
party, “Going to Jerusalem” or “Musical Chairs”

was the height of hilarity. An occasional kissing
game was added for the really' adventurous mem-
bers of the party. This had to- be handled with
some finesse as reputations were quickly unmade!

The sweets for the party were made over the
kitchen stove. Some homemade popcorn with a
little sugar to give it flavor and adhesive quali-
ties, and the old-fashioned taffy pull in which
everybody had a part, were great favorites. Now
the taffy is made at the seashore by one individual
who throws the tawny mass over a hook, twisting
and pulling, while the watching crowd follows his
movements with longing eyes. .

Contrast this child with the modern child whose.
every whim is gratified by an indulgent parent. A
child, in the majority of cases, who has never suf-
fered hardship in any form, who is over—supplied
with rich stimulating foods. A child who has been -
given very little responsibility other than the care
of a pet or maybe a newspaper route; at least in
no way comparable to the responsibility that ne-
cessity forced upon the child‘in our other picture.
A child who has grown up under the advanced
economic and cultural advantages now offered to
our children would naturally show precocity of
physical deve10pment. If our modern child does
not like the school he is attending, or through
some weakness is unable to fit into the scheme of
the school, he is allowed to change to a school that
fits his particular case. If he does not like his
college course it can also be changed. ~

The modern child would be a dull moron not to
be affected by the stimuli allowed to impinge upon
his delicate nervous system. There is the radio,
shouting entertainment and wares at all hours of
the day and night, to which the child is either
forced to listen or in some way surround himself
with a protective wall, making his nervous system
immune to the insistent demand. A large percent-
age of the movies depict situations which not only
stimulate his advanced prococity, but give a false
lurid picturization of life. Successful children
must have a sense of security in their home life.
Our movies have done a great deal to dissipate
security as they picture the child’s heroes in un-
satisfying, untruthful home situations.

How Does He Spend His Free Time Today?

How does the average young adolescent spend
his spare time today? If he is still in school a
definitely prescribed period is devoted to school
and in preparation for it. After school the old—
fashioned home chores are a thing of the past. The

TODAY’S BOY AND GIRL 25

balance of his working and some of his sleeping
hours are taken up with movies, automobiles,
night clubs, and questionable drinking and dancing
places. A very small portion of some of the above
mentioned could be considered as wholesome for
the adolescent boy or girl.

In athletic participation, a large majority of our
high schools have very fine intramural programs
in which all to some extent participate. This is
elective in so far as choice of sport is concerned,
but compulsory from the standpoint of participa-
tion in at least one form of athletics. The select
few who make the teams in school spend consid-
erable time in these activities, but for the majority,
participation starts and ends with the cheering
section. It is significant that the older boy is be—
coming less a participant and more of 'a spectator.
This is not a wholesome condition. Athletic pro-
grams and participation in active physical games
is not an experience that can be successfully in-
dulged in vicariously.

To be sure, the great mass of children attend-
ing our playgrounds and recreation centers are not
in the strata of society pictured above. Our old-
fashioned games are still apparently satisfying
their needs as witnessed by their continuous at-
tendance. But for the group privileged to gradu-
ate from high school and attend college, the prob-
lem still challenges the recreation director.

What Can be Done?

A higher standard of living does not necessarily
"imply a higher standard of life. In some way we
must recapture the imaginations of our adoles-
cent, either with the old games revamped or new
games substituted, so that they may again have
wholesome games in which
they will take part for the

only answer the physical urges of our 'nature for
self experience but will claim our leisure for.per—
sonal cultivation, the improvement of the family
and the advancement of our social order, with our
ultimate goal not pleasure alone, but happiness.
A close observer of our young people in their
mad rush to do something, the chief end of which
is stimulation, would not care to reconcile this
with the frequently quoted statement—“What the
American people do in their spare time hence-
forth will largely determine the character of our
civilization.” Taking for granted that our adoles-
cent participation in active games is lessening at

- an alarming rate, can this be explained by any of

the following questions:

I. Has the adolescent outgrown the leadership
offered by the community?

2. Can our answer be found in the great in-
crease in the spectator crowd, due partially to the
better type of entertainment offered by our major
teams, and the°increasing technique required to
play on the team? H

3. Is our program at fault in not supplying the
types of activities that appeal to the “almost
adult” mind of our adolescent?

Are our children and adolescents of the present
day properly equipped with resources for taking
care of their increasing leisure?

Are New Patterns of Play Needed?

We would not for one moment suggest that our
adolescents had been satiated with all the possible
experiences that. play has to offer. Patterns of
play may be provided even for the advanced adult,
as shown by the increasing interest of adults of
advanced age, who, under wise leadership, have
found an endless variety of
hobby expressions, some of

pure joy of participation.
This may be accomplished
either by reviving the games
that have meant so much to
generations of the past or
by developing new games
keyed to the present tempo
of modern living. In doing
this, the extra hours of lei-
sure so dearly acquired by
our parents must not be
filled with a hectic plethora
of meaningless activities for

activity’s sake, but with se- -

lective activities that not

"This article is not written." Mr. Brandon
states. "in the Spirit of criticism. but to
stimulate a desire on our part to weigh our
programs carefully. evaluate their appeal
and scientific value. and analyze the needs
of our young people in terms of the rapidly
changing conditions under which they find
themselves and are compelled. through no
fault of their own. to live their lives. We
must make sure that if there is any failure
in the preparation of our adolescents to
find satisfying expression in their leisure not
only now but later. that failure will not be
through carelessness or lack of foresight on
the part of their present leadership. always
realizing that in spite ofall we may do with or
for the adolescent. 'every generation must
make its own terms with the universe.' "

which have developed to
the stage of definite voca-
tional experience. If our
adolescent has become rec-
reationally stale, or over-
sophisticated in respect to
our‘programs, the fault is
either in our leadership or
program, or both.

A partial solution for
these questions can be found
in our planning for recrea-
tion and in dealing particu-
larly with the adolescent, if

( C ontinued on page 53)

Trails

By

HENRY S. CURTIS
Ann Arbor' Michigan

HE ABILITY to stand and walk erect
Tis the most distinguishing character-

istic of anthropes’erectus. At every
step we raise the weight of the body sev-
eral inches, in a mile walk not less than
fifteen hundred times. Most of us, can not
do this in chinning a bar with our arm muscles
more than two or three times. There is no other
set of muscles in the body that is capable of such
exertion. So far as golf is to be counted as exer—
cise it is at least 95% walking, and walking repre—
sents at least 90% of all the physical energy most
of us develop; but wheels and wings are more
economical than legs, and we seem to be discard-
ing them in America today in favor of the auto-
mobile and deserting the old time trail for the
cement highway. We are about the only people
in the world who do not walk, but we must re-
member also that we have about nine-tenths of
the world’s autos, and walking on the highway is
about as dangerous and nerve racking as march-
ing into battle.

'In Europe it is different. There are few autos,
and there are foot trails along most of the main
highways, often with stone or other benches every
kilometer or so. Also European towns are close
together with centuries of history and age-old
customs and crafts, gathered around every little
hamlet. Every fifteen miles or so there is a hostel
where one may cook his own meal or spend the
night for about a quarter.

Europe also has a tradition of walking. A week
or two weeks’ walking trip represents one of the
chief if not the chief form of vacation of central
Europe. The schools have long encouraged such
j'ourheys, and Germany put them into the school
program for its older pupils back at the beginning

‘26

the left. From this
toot trails radiate through the park

 

A trail on the Naumee along the bank of
the abandoned Miami ‘Canal, now public
property. The lock shown is about twenty
miles from Toledo. A clubhouse is at

point a number of

of the century. On these group hikes of the Ger-
man children, there are always some who carry
musical instruments, and a great group of march-
ing songs have been developed.

During the depression many trails have been
made in this country. There is one running down
the Appalachians with few breaks from Mount
Monadnock in Maine to Mount Oglethorpe in
Georgia, twenty-three hundred miles. There are
numerous shelters along the way in certain sec~
tions. There is a similar trail down the Coast
Range on our Pacific Coast. These trails are
away from the automobile through scenery that
is often wild with splendid views. A farm coun-
try such as Southern Michigan is not likely to
develop trails of this sort or of the European
variety, which are supposed to go somewhere.
Our trails must iind their appeal rather in the
attractiveness of the journey than in any historic
castle or cathedral at the end.

The best books of travel ever written have been
largely views afoot. One gets only passing views
and superficial knowledge from tieeting automo-
biles and trains. There is no other way to acquire
a love of nature or an intimate acquaintance with
birds and fiowers. Trails are about as necessary
as a laboratory to the study of botany and biology.
The trail also has an intimate social side. It tends
to develop comradeship and intimacy.

(Continued on page 53)

A Recreation Museum for Juniors

T SOMETIMES HAPPENS that a dream becomes so

I vivid as a result of months of hope and un-

yielding desire, that without hardly realizing it

a certain materialization .gradually becomes evi—
denced.

A'place that could be developed as a workshop

-an activity center—and at the same time be a '

place for both changing and permanent exhibits
interesting to children was a long-wished-for ad-
dition to our recreational facilities. Some years
ago two developments made it possible to take the
first steps in giving tangible form to our museum
project. First of all, a young man vitally inter-
ested and with skill and training in this type of
work developed a most stimulating nature pro-
gram and museum at Camp Mather, San Fran-
cisco’s municipal camp, located in the high Sierra
country. He, was willing to adapt and continue
the program on the playgrounds. About the same
time SERA turned over to the Recreation De-
partment a large and spacious one story building
' containing three wings which had been built as a
District Administration office on undeveloped
property owned by the Recreation Department.
Due to creative leadership and the helpful assist-
ance of skilled persons from WPA and NYA
lists it was possible to prepare and arrange ex-
hibits and organize groups more rapidly than
otherwise would have been possible.

A New' Conception of a Museum

Many who have not visited a museum in recent
years may have their conception characterized by
early impressions of an exhibit of Egyptian mum-
mies, tomahawks from an Indian grave or the wax
Howers of the 80’s and 90’s. Our Junior Recreai
tion Museum is a museum in the modern concep-
tion of' the term; it is a true activity center, a
place where boys and girls and
young men and women are
watching plants and animals live
and grow; are constructing
model airplanes, model engines,
model cars; are making wax
flowers, too—but a collection,
true to life in color and size, of
all wild flowers that grow in the
region of San Francisco. These
are used for purposes of study

In the October issue of Recreation_
there appeared a brief article on
San Francisco's Junior Museum. 50
many inquiries were received by the
Recreation Commission as the re-
sult of the publication of the article
that Miss Randall has prepared for
readers of the magazine a more
detailed description of this tasci-
nating proiect which has become
so important a part of the program.

By JOSEPHINE Dows RANDALL

Superintendent of Recreation
San Francisco. California

and identification. Scale models of old, and his-
toric ships are being constructed from blueprints
made by the boys themselves; a model of Fort
Union has just been finished in complete and ac-
curate detail by a group of boys particularly in-
terested in the early cross-country treks to
California. '

A model of Fort Ross is being constructed by
this same group in connection with their interest
in the history of the days of Russian occupancy
of the Northern California Coast. A kayak that
would please an eskimo seal hunter is nearing
completion; a picture of the historical 'develop-
ment of gardens is being portrayed in perfect scale
models, the earliest of which shows the Hanging
Gardens of Babylon. Beautiful and exquisitely
finished models of small musical instruments used
in early times in many countries are being made
and carved with great interest and precision on
the part of the workers.

A comprehensive and constantly increasing
stamp collection is on exhibit for study and use
by all interested in philately. A well equipped
dark room provides adequate facilities for de-
veloping and finishing photographs. Instruction
in the art of photography is given, and results of
the efforts of our amateurs have received wide
recognition. A collection of live insects, birds,
reptiles, fish and small animals is daily observed
and cared for by an enthusiastic group of boys
and girls in the biology section.

A visitor to the museum is first of all impressed
by the busy groups of young
people, each member of which
is absorbed in his work. There
has never been a problem of
discipline in the museum, and
the monthly attendance averages
about 3500. There is no dis-
order. Each individual is deeply
interested in the thing that he is
doing. He is accomplishing the
work in a rhythm that he sets

27

28 A RECREATION MUSEUM FOR JUNIORS

 

At work on collections of the wild flowers
which grow in the region of San Francisco

for himself. We as recrea—
tion leaders are endeavoring
to create an attitude on the part of the young peo-
ple about the things they do, rather than about the
particular task itself. We know that the process
involves the result of the way in which one does
' a' thing rather than the thing that is done.

“7 e want to give to all who participate in the
activities of the Junior Museum an opportunity
“to learn to discover themselves, to learn to live
with themselves in a rich and satisfying manner.”
W e are anxious “that they make major advances
in the relationship of life rather than in the
mechanics of living.” We want them to be in-
terested in the things people are doing rather than
in the hnished product alone. While techniques
and skills are being developed by activities at the
museum, the creation of attitudes is the important
goal in all of the work.

Contribution of Services and Collections

The Recreation Department has been fortunate
indeed in receiving the wise counsel and guidance
of an exceptional committee of experts to direct
their work in this new endeavor. Dr. Frank Tose,
Chief, Department of Exhibits, California Acad-
emy of Sciences, has been chairman of the Junior
Recreation Museum Committee since its incep-
tion. Other members are Mrs. Paul Scherer, Mr.
E. R. Leach,_ Dr. Mary H. Layman, Mrs.
Rudolph Schevill, Dr. Isabel McCracken and Dr.
Harold Jones. Each brings a particularly rich
contribution of experience and interest to com-
mittee work.

The Smithsonian Institution in Washington,

D. C., has made a most in—
teresting contribution of 89
specimens of articles made and used by members
of early Indian tribes in the eastern section of
our country. Mt. Wilson Observatory has given a
series of photographs of heavenly bodies and con—
stellations and of photographs of instruments used
at the observatory. These have proved highly in-
teresting to children working in the field of ele-
mentary astronomy.

Mr. Bert Walker, director of the museum, has
made an unusual contribution of hundreds of ar-
ticles made and used by the Miwok Indians which
he personally uncovered, and many of which he
sifted from early burial mounds in the high
Sierra country.

The San Francisco Museum of Art and the
Academy of Sciences have been most generous in
their assistance. Loan exhibits are made available
by these organizations for our use. They are ex-
changed every. four to six weeks for new and dif-
ferent exhibits and add a great deal to the at-
tractiveness and interest of our museum.

4 At the present time an unsual exhibit makes the
large entrance hall a fascinating place for the
study of interesting and well planned gardens.
Through the courtesy of the Art Museum many
models of gardens made for their unusual exhibit
some months ago have been loaned to us for a
period of several weeks.

Plan for the Future
Interesting plans for the future development of

, the Junior Recreation Museum are well under

way. The Recreation Commission is acquiring

A RECREATION MUSEUM FOR JUNIORS 29

sixteen and one-half acres of centrally located
property which _we call Corona Heights but which
is more familiarly known as Rocky Hill. Its un-
usual contour and its interesting elevation will
make an ideal setting for this particular type of
activity. The building, which is being thought-
fully planned, is carefully adapted to the location,
and from a short distance will appear to be only
a portion of the hill itself. Nature trails, outdoor
gardens, wild flowers and shrubs in natural habitat
as well as children’s playgrounds will make this
one of the most unique and fascinating recrea—
tion centers to be found in any location.

We hope that we shall be able to develop the
activities of our Junior Recreation Museum in
such a way that it will become a vital force in the
lives of thousands of our young people. Today it
is used not only by groups from the playgrounds
but by Camp Fire Girls, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts
and children from San Francisco’s public schools.
This entire project has been under way for less
than two years. Its growth has been an inspira-
tion to all who have been‘ privileged to participate
in its development.

Those interested in the Junior Recreation Mu—
seum hope to pre-
sent its activities
and work as an out-
standing exhibit and
demonstration at
the Golden Gate
International Expo-
sition in 1939. We
believe that such an
exhibit and ‘demon-
stration will assist
.all who view it to
visualize the
achievements of
man,‘the significant
facts of history, and
the beauties of na-
ture; will illustrate
the principles of
science and provide
avenues for crea—
tive education
through various
“activities” or “hob-
'bies,” during the
free time of young
people, and offer an
opportunity for es—

 

sential cooperation with and aid to existing agen-
cies’, such as the home, schools, the parks, play-
grounds and the varied organizations that are
working in the interests of the development and
maintenance of wholesome personalities.

The Junior Recreation Museum of San Fran-
cisco is in accord with the Brooklyn Children’s
Museum in its statement of the means to be em-
ployed in achieving the purposes of a children’s
museum: "

“To set up instructive appropriately labelled
displays and exhibits which would include natural
history specimens arranged with reference to the
stories they tell, geographical, geological and his—
torical specimens and models; to conduct illus-
trated talks, to inaugurate motion pictures for
young people, of travel, of costumes, of plant and
animal life, and to develop hobbies and interests
through ‘clubs’ or ‘sections’ and out-of-door
excursions organized where interest manifests
itself.”

One year ago this February the Junior Recre-
ation Museum reached that stage in its develop-
ment where it could invite all San Franciscans to
enter and to discover for themselves those activi-
ties which seemed
most intriguing and
to enjoy them to the
utmost.

We felt, but did
not say, “Here one
may find physical,
mental, emotional
and social develop—
ment; here the un-

foldment of the op—
portunity to achieve
in those endeavors
that have been
vague hopes or
stern yearnings;
here a place to de-
velop one’s hobby,
to become acquaint—
ed with the ambi-
tions and achieve-
ments of fellow
workers and to
know through ex-
hibits some of the
accomplishments of
the past, significant
facts of history and
(Continued on— page 53)

The School Club is 'Here to Stay

- By R. E. HARWOOD

District Superintendent

Tustin Elementary School
Tustin. California

ITHIN THE present genera-
w tion a new and exciting ele-

ment has entered the class-
rooms from kindergarten to col-
lege. It is known variously by
such titles as extra-curricular activities, school
clubs, and lastly and perhaps most pertinently, it
has been called the co-curricular program.

In this program a small section of our school
society made up of pupils with one common pur-
pose, a small cohesive unit, sets itself apart to de-
velop its interest for the edification of its mem-
bers; this interest in.turn tends to enrich the total
social life of the school.

The list of interests represented by these clubs
is very large. Interests springing from school ac—
tivities range from athletics to the zodiac; the
form of organization varies from a most formal
group studying Parliamentary procedures to a half
dozen youngsters of an archery club out in a field
shooting at a target. Interests also spring from
vocational life and from purely social activities.

The club group usually operates under some
sort of charter or agreement with the consent of
the school principal. In most of the cases it meets
during the school day with a teacher as sponsor
and guide, but not as the originator of the activi-
ties. The club may meet anywhere about the
school plant, usually from forty-live to sixty
minutes, once a week, in any space large enough
to accommodate the group. It is usually com-
posed of from ten to forty members, with athletic
clubs reaching twice this size. The club has one
or more student officers who
may be given names de—

"Extra-curricular activities are not by any

raised by various methods, such as
by giving a dance or a play, by the
sale of waste materials or of ar-
ticles made by members of the
club.

The majority of the clubs are organized for a
semester at a time, and considerable flexibility is
allowed for changing from one club to another
and for killing off a dying club before it dies. If
the interest in the club is worth while it may be
best to build it up instead of killing it off.

Membership 'should 'not be maintained by a
pupil in one club for more than three or four
semesters. It is more advantageous to the pupil
for him to belong to several clubs during his
school life. He should not, however, be a mem-
ber of more than two clubs at a time.

The school club has come to stay. It provides
an outlet for the natural gregariousness of child—
hood and youth. It helps in overcoming inertia
in bringing new things to the curriculum. It aids
in developing the many-sided character of the
pupil. It provides a place in which democratic
practices dominate, and most important, it intro—
duces the child to democratic living.

The school club offers an immediate incentive
for learning skills which may be of great value
later in life. Not the least of the merits of the
club program is the fact that the child is enthusi-
astic about it.

In his book “Extra-Curricular Activities,”
Harry C. McKown states the objectives of school
clubs to be the following:
“To capitalize gregarious-

p

scriptive of their positions,
such as Big Bird, Banker,
Old Man Writes in a Book,
Navigator, Pilot or Chief
Archer.

The financing of the club
may be a simple problem in
the elementary school but in
the high school or junior
college may, in the case of
athletics or dramatics, in-
volve the handling of large
sums of money. Money is

30

means new—they are about as old as or-
ganized education itself. Many of them,
even in their modern form. were to be
found in ancient schools. For example.
athletic competitions. clubs. debating, stu-
dent participation in government, special
day celebrations, dramatics, music, and
prebably others closely resembling those in
modern practice were well established in
Athens and Sparta. . . . Consequently the
individual who designates them as 'new
tangled educational “fads; and trills' is
limited in his knowledge of their historical
development.."——-Harry C. McKown in

5 "Extra-Curricular Activities."

._ .
_. ‘tlr gab-s. 4. . ‘2

ness; to Widen and deepen
student interests; to moti-
vate 'and enrich classroom
work, and to develop worthy
social ideals, attitudes and
habits.” He offers these
basic principles of club or-
ganization and administra- -
tion: The club should be
based on definite objectives.
Its purposes and objectives
should be those of its stu-

(Continued on page 54)

Developing a . Recreation Area

 

ELROSE, MASSACHUSETTS, a city of approxi-
mately 25,000 persons located Within ten
miles of the city of Boston, has for the

past four and a half years been developing an
area of 240 acres in what is known as the Mt.
Hood Park and Golf Course. This development
has been. operating with the cooperation of the
Federal government first through the Civil Works
Administration, then the Emergency Relief Ad-
ministration, and since December I936 through
the Works Progress Administration, with the
Federal government agencies mentioned above
furnishing the necessary labor and the city of
Melrose providing all necessary materials, sup-
plies and equipment.
During this
period of four
and a half years,
the city has pur-

A beautiful recrea—
tion building is one
of the important
assets of the new
park. The picture
above shows a view
of the develop-
ment as seen from

the front porch
of the building.

through
Federal

GEORGE W. ROGERS

Superintendent
Parks and Playgrounds

chased 215 acres to supplement the original 25
acres which it has owned for some twenty years
through a deed of gift, and it now has in this de-
veIOpment 240 acres. We have constructed an
eighteen hole golf course (second nine to be lin-
ished this spring), a beautiful recreation building
and club house which contains, besides the offices
of the Park Department, locker rooms for both
men and women with 180 lockers in the men’s
section and 63 in the women’s, a completely fur-
nished lunch room and a hall of 1,600 square feet
for various social functions such as dances and
banquets. This building, as well as all the build-
ings built in this park, are constructed of natural

 

31

32 DEVELOPING A RECREATION AREA THROUGH FEDERAL COOPERATION

field stones taken from the clearing of the fair-
ways and greens.

Two field stone buildings 18’ x 36’, one each
for the Boy and Girl Scouts, are located on a six
acre tract set aside exclusively for this form of
activity. A nature trail a mile and a quarter long
has been planted by the various women’s clubs in
the city with natural woodland shrubs and flowers.
Four miles of road have been constructed into and
through the park. Other facilities include a ser—
vice garage for the department; pump houses for
pumping water from our own ponds for use on
the golf course; the construction of fOUr miles of
roads into and through the park, and a field stone
tower 40’ high and 18’ square at the base. Located
285’ above sea level, the tower commands a view

for miles. in all directions.

In the park there have been built a I5 meter ski

jump and a toboggan slide 820 feet long. These -

facilities are used extensively during the winter
season when conditions are right. A two—day win—
ter sport carnival was held in the park on Satur—
day and Sunday during the latter part of Janu—
ary. A fair estimate of the attendance on the Sun-
day of the carnival was placed at 50,000 persons.
It was said to be one of the largest gatherings of
people ever held in Greater Boston at any one

time.
It is conservatively estimated that during the

four and a half years while the park has been

constructed 250 men were kept gainfully em—
ployed every working day. Thus the city has been
saved thousands of dollars in relief funds. With—
out this'project Melrose would have been unable
to place so large a number of men at work.

The Federal government spent approximately
$700,000 up to the first of this year, with the city
spending approximately $195,000. Of this amount
about $54,500 was for the purchase of the neces-
sary land to carry out this development.

The park was constructed on‘ land that would
be unsuited for development of homes, owing to
the fact that it cultivated some of the wildest
woodland and ledge to be found in this part of
the country. Some of the construction involved
practically blasting a way through, especially at
the main road near the club house and directly in
front of the seventh green where a ledge 0f 12
feet was taken out in order to get to the green.
The green, being in a swamp, has been filled in
with the broken ledge for a height of four feet.
Under our third green a broken rock fill of six

feet was necessary before the construction of the
green was started.

The recreation building or club house, com—

-pletely equipped and including all the materials

necessary for its construction, cost the city of
Melrose less than $27,000.

The golf course, which has operated for the
past two summers with nine holes, has more than
justified our faith that it would take care bf itself
financially. For the season of 1937 the golf course
receipts amounted to over $300 more than the
maintenance and operating cost. We have every
reason to believe that with the second nine hole
course going into operation possibly this fall, the
golf course will be well worth all the efforts put
into it and will more than take care of itself
financially.

The remainder of the park has proven its value.
Thousands visit the tower in the course of the
year; others hike through the mile and a quarter
nature trail where twelve fireplaces with special
outdoor tables and lean-tos have been built for the
enjoyment of the lovers of the outdoors.

The Park Department has plans for the further
development of the park which will call for the
construction of a battery of tennis courts, a bath-
ing beach with a bathhouse on one of the numer-
ous ponds, bowling greens, horseshoe courts,
archery, shuffleboard courts and various other
forms of outdoor recreation facilities that will
help make this park the greatest outdoor recrea-
tion center under municipal control in the eastern
part of the country.

We believe that this project has been a life
saver for Melrose, which, only ten miles away
from Boston, with its limited area could not have
found enough projects to take care of the large
number of men who have been employed during
the past four and a half years. Approximately
100 men could be kept busy for the next three or
four years clearing up the wild lands and swamps
of dead wood and other debris.

Note: In the May issue of RECREATION there
will be published an article entitled “Minimum
Standards for Recreation Facilities” which will
contain much of interest to recreation, park and
school officials, and all others concerned with the
planning of playgrounds and community centers.
We hope you will let us have the benefit of your
comments on the standards suggested. If you do
not agree with them, let us know why not.

Gardens for Recreation

sound and satisfactory

investment in recreation,
one that will transform life
into the glorious experience
' it ought to be, have a gar-
den. You will at once ob-
serve that the popular
phrase “plant a garden” has
been replaced or materially
expanded to “have a gar-
den.” Planting a garden is
only a small part of garden recreation and may
even end when the last seed is covered with soil,
but having a garden connotes ownership with its
responsibility and understanding.

The art of gardening is as old as human ex-
perience, yet today it offers to those who seek
complete recreation a new world filled with po-
tential opportunities. It opens channels for the
creative, aesthetic and intellectual sides of our
nature and at the same time provides an outlet for
social contact and creative sharing. It supplies the
body with the necessary physical stimuli in the
clean fresh air so efficacious to health. It is the
outdoor gymnasium for those who have made the
discovery that work in a garden is just plain
everyday fun in disguise. The blessed backache
resulting from 'the constant combats with weeds
and insect pests is nature’s passport to the land of
pleasant dreams and peaceful sleep. The garden
reacts to the variable moods of the individual yet
it is ever sympathetic and soothing to the tired
nerves. The luxury of a garden is magnified only
by its economy. Here is a form of recreation that
will conform to the financial status of any indi-
vidual. The insignificant geranium, lovingly plant-
ed in an old tomato can, may serve as noble a
purpose as the most elaborate formal garden.

If we crave adventure, it is there. Many will
testify_ to the thrill of winning the battle of the
soil. If we seek beauty, it is enthroned in royal
majesty, never the same, for the garden is an
ever-changing environment. Science may be dis-
covered beneath an unturned stone and history is
being made every day in a garden. Romance‘and
poetry may lurk behind the, stem .of pretentious
phlox or modest lily. The fdroning of the bees,
the whispering of the wanton breeze, the sigh of

IF YOU WISH to make a

I am alone

By F. ELLWOOD ALLEN

Alone in my garden 'neath the stars.
There is a quiet restfulness and peace
That only gardens give.

And find release from worldly care
Delicious fragrance fills the air

From perfumed flowers everywhere.

No turmoil stirs my soulI nor mars

The beauty of my garden 'neath the stars.

the rose dropping its pearly
petals to the ground is
music that only the sensi-
tive ear of the garden lover
can understand. Music was
born in a garden.

To create a garden is_to
experience the insatiable
joy of human triumph. The
creative urge within us finds
here an outlet for self—ex-
pression: We design the
garden of our dreams and plan each bed and walk
to meet the rigid requirements of taste. Rhythm,
sequence, balance, are woven into a fabric—of sim-
ple and colorful design. Yet the creative aspect
does not terminate at the completion of the gar-
den structure. It is omnipresent, for there are con-
stant changes to be made— rearrangement for
color and form, new and unfamiliar plants to add,
architectural accessories for the enhancement of
beauty, not to mention the captivating appeal for
hybridizing and the creation of new varieties. The
creative genius of a gardener finds occasion to
unite with nature into a sacred partnership for the
working of miracles.

To those who are devotees of art, who live in
the realm of beauty, the garden again stands
supreme and will satisfy the most exacting de-
mands. Color and form, two basic elements in
design, await in abundance the brush of the mas-
ter. By careful planning, color can be maintained
throughout the year. Only the palette of an
artist is comparable to the color range of a garden,
for Nature transplanted in the soil the disappear-
ing rainbow of the sky to furnish pigments for
each bud and flower. There is no end to the com-
binations of color in a garden, to say nothing of
the variations of a single color. Have you ever
seen a “blue” garden with its campanula, an—
chusa, veronica, asters, lithospernum, salvia,
plumbago and dozens of others, from the azure
of the sky to the indigo of the mighty deep? One
can have a garden in almost any color and find a
wealth of obliging material. A mass planting of
the pale blue Dclphirmm belladonna mingled with
Madonna Lillies and serving as a background for
the orchid glory of Sidelsia rosea is an arresting
sight in June. For one whose recreational needs

33

34 GARDENS FOR RECREATION

can be gratified by the manifestation of beauty,
the garden stands unchallenged. I. 2' . '

The garden is a constant source of inspiration.
To the intelligensia it has a unique appeal. The
history of garden craft is fascinating beyond de-
scription. The struggle, during the Dark Ages, of
the patient monks in the cloistered gardens of the
monastery to keep alive this ancient art cannot fail
to appeal to the inquiring mind. Each plant of
the garden from the daintiest alpine to the stately
monkshood has a history all its own. The thrilling
adventures of the plant hunter are etched on the
petals of the. regal lily. Every country on the
globe has sent its plant delegates to adorn the
garden and raise. its standard in native pride.
The garden becomes the laboratory of the scien—
tist. Here botany, agronomy‘, entomology and
plant pathology offer endless problems for re-
search and study.

To the socially minded, the garden affords a
means of contact. It is a trait of human nature
to share the thing we have created. This creative
sharing teaches us the art of companionship. The
garden club opens new vistas, and, before we
know it we become a part of a new and universal
cultural movement.

To the collector and hobbiest, a word of warn—
ing————beware the garden! Once the collecting bug
bites you, you are irrevocably lost! The end is
never in sight. Take alpines, for example. A col—
lection of alpines taxes
the ingenuity of the best.
Of sedums and saxi-
frages there are no end, i
and when one attempts a
collection of sempervi—
vums, the nomenclature
is so confusing and mix:
ed that hours of careful
research are required. But
he will love it. Whether
it be alpines, hog plants,
aquatics, roses or even
wild flowers, the garden
is the Elysium of the
collector.

A wall garden which was
designed by the author

To those who occasionally seek seclusion for
quiet meditation and reflection beneath the jeweled
sky or strive to unfathom the mystery of man and
his universe; to those who would commune with
nature and probe into her secret past, thegarden
is but the entrance to another world. To be alone
beneath the stars amid the fragrance of a cher—
ished garden is to discover a Shangri-la.

Nature never did betray

The heart that loved her; ’tis her privilege,
Through all the years of this our life, to lead
From joy to joy, for she can so inform

The mind that is within us, so impress

\Vith quietness and beauty, and s0 feed

With lofty thoughts, that neither evil tongues,
Rash judgments, nor the sneers of selfish men,
Nor greetings where no kindness is, nor all
The dreary interchange of daily life,

Shall e’er prevail against us, Or disturb

Our cheerful faith, that all which we behold
Is full of blessings.

William Wordsworth.

 

You Asked for It!

Question: Will you suggest some handcraft

projects which we might introduce in our sum-

mer playground program this year? We have lit-

tle money available.

Answer: The‘ handcraft projects listed below
are but a very few of the many which you can use
in playgrounds, in institutions and in recreation
centers, and they may be adapted to {it almost any

size budget.

All of them can run into money if you go on an
orgy of buying, but they need not if you are in-
genious and use resources available. A trip to
neighborhood stores, for_ instance, will net you
cardboard .boxes, cigar boxes, crates and scrap
battleship linoleum at very little or no expense.
Lumber yards and mills often are glad to give you
“mill-ends” of various sizes. Leather finding com-
panies'sell scrap leather by the pound, which is
satisfactory for small articles and much cheaper
than binng it by the skin, half-skin orisquare
inch. Newspaper plants will give you news print
for coloring and drawing. If you raid neighbor-
hood scrap bags you will have enough scraps for
rugs and small sewing projects and perhaps some
old sweaters which can be unravelled and knitted,
crocheted or woven into something new.

Nut picks make excellent leather tools and you'

need only a punch and tools for putting on snaps.
Many experts use a razor with one thick edge and
a penknife for block prints. If you want the reg-
ular tools, get single tools rather than sets, for
often a number of tools in sets are seldom used.
Cold water powder paints, such as Dekotint (see.
hardware stores) may take the place of the more
expensive poster colors for painting. Finger paints
may be made at home in the double boiler. These
are but a few of the possibilities in expense cutting.

There are many books on practically all of the

projects listed below, some written for the pro-
fessional, others for the lay leader or craftsman.
A few simple ones are listed at the end. The chief
thing to remember in using materialsof any kind
is that each individual should do all his own work,
make up his own patterns as far as possible, and
be encouraged to do his very best work, whether
he uses discarded materials or new ones; whether
he makes a place card, bracelet or a bookcase.

Handcraft Projects

Woodwork

Articles for Household Use
Shelves Book ends
Magazme racks Lamps
Window boxes Door stops
Tables '

Games
Checkers Spinner games
Chess Dart games
Puzzles

Toys
Spool Animals
Stilts Kites
Pushmobiles

[Models
Airplane Stage Sets ‘
Ship

Doll Houses and Furniture

Wood C aro'iug and Whittling

C hip C aroing
Miscellaneous
Buttons Musical instruments
Brooches Cases for collections—
Shepherd’s Pipes as coins, minerals, etc.
Painting
Finger Painting Water color and oil
Sketching
Paper Work
Beads Crépe paper work
Dolls Holiday and party
Paper folding decorations '
Scrap books Christmas cards
Peep shows Posters
Stage sets Lamp shades
Doll house furniture Papier-maché masks
Paper mosaics Bookbinding

35

36 YOU ASKED FOR IT! ,

Clay Modeling
Pottery

(Self-hardening clay or firing)

Metal

Ash trays
Napkin rings
Bracelets

Book ends
Watch fobs
Rings and pins

Marionettes

Hand String Shadow

Weaving
(Raffia, reed, yarn, cloth and silk stockings)

Baskets Doll clothes.
Mats Gloves
Purses Hats

Rugs Scarves

Knitting and Crocheting
Sewing and Embroidery

Pot holders Collars
Clothespin bags Stuffed animals
Laundry bags Dresses
Aprons Costumes
Table runners Hooked rugs

Braiding and Knot Tying
(Raffia, cord, leather thongs)

Belts Watch fobs
Hat bands Purses
Lanyards Knot display

Leather Tooling

Book marks Purses
Belts Book covers
Key cases Desk sets
Bill folds

Miscellaneous

Aquaria and terraria Indian crafts

Blue prints Tire tube rubber and oil
Plaster casts cloth toys
Spatter prints

Methods of Applying Designs

Batik Stenciling
Tie dye Spatter prints
Stick printing Etching
Block printing

Bibliography

Art Adventures with Discarded Materials by Evadna K.

Perry. Wetzel Publishing Co., Los Angeles, California.
$2.00

This book contains projects especially suitable for- ele-
mentary school age, but adaptable to all ages, using

paper, paper bags, sacks, cloth scraps, stockings, boxes,

wood and tin.

Basket Pioneering by Osma P. Couch. Orange Judd
Publishing Co., Inc., New York. $1.00 plus 10 cents

postage.

The use of native materials—pine needles, grasses.
reeds, ferns,.vines and shoots—is stressed, but com-
mercial products may be substituted. Weaving stitches
for many kinds of baskets are simply and clearly

presented.

Block Printing and Stenciliiig by Robert Bruce Inverarity.
Library of the Seven Crafts. Camp Fire Girls Out-
fitting Co., New York City. $.35

Here are step by step descriptions, including making of
one, two and three color prints.

Boats, Airplanes and Kites nby Armond J. LaBerge. Man-
ual Arts Press, Peoria, 111. $2.00

Five to seven examples of each type of model are de-
scribed in detail. Some of the models are simple and

some are more complex.

Handicraft by Lester Griswold. Lester Griswold, Colo-
rado Springs, Colo. $1.00

Simplihed leather, celluloid, metal, wood, batik, rafiia
and cord work, especially for boys, is described in

this book.

Homemade Games by Arthur Lawson. J. B. Lippincott
Co., Philadelphia. $2.00

Table games, puzzles and active games such as table
tennis, tether ball, and shuffleboard are- to be found in

this book. The rules for the games are also included.

Leather Craft and Beading by Helen Biggart. Library of
the Seven Crafts. Camp Fire Girls Outfitting Co., New
York City. $.50

Directions and illustrations make this book simple and

clear.

Let’s Make a Book by Harriet H. Shoen. The Macmillan
Co., New York City. $.75

A very excellent book, including simple notebooks and
regular Volumes.

Treasure Chest of Marionette Hobby Craft by Helen
Fling. Treasure Chest Publications, Inc., 62 West 45th
Street, New York City. $.52

These marionettes are stringed and each step is illus-
trated in a clear original way. You will find it excellent.

WORLD AT PLAY

And It’s All in

the Family, ter in Newton Coun_

year when the W.
P.A. launched a one-act play contest there, for
the members of each cast were required by the
rules to be members of one family. Families
in a number of communities produced plays
and the winners in each community competed
in the finals. The winning family had five of
its nine children in the cast! The audience at-
tending these plays included 150 to 300 per-
sons. The purpose of the contest was the pro-
motion of home and family recreation, Newton
County being chosen as the experimental
county so that effective plans might be laid for
state family one—act play nights. Bulletins
were sent to all directors explaining the plan,

giving suggestions to directors and actors and ‘

hints for organizing play nights and listing
suggested one—act plays.

THE new h o b b y
shop at Price Hill
police station in Cin-
cinnati, Ohio; previ-
ously operated as an airplane shop, includes
provision for many different types of club ac-
tivities. Through the cooperation of 'the City
Manager and the Properties Division, provi-
sion has been made for a suitable entrance and
exit from the second Hoor of the police station,

and a large room has been given over to the
hobby shop.

A New Hobby Shep
in Cincinnati

G R E E N S B O R 0,
North Carolina,
through the generos—
ity of Mrs. L. Rich—
ardson and her daughters, Mrs. C. I. Carlson,
Mrs. William Y. Preyer, and Mrs. Karl Prick-
ett, is to have a civic and cultural center. The
old First Presbyterian Church property, which
has been purchased, to provide the community
center, will, through the terms of the gift, be-
come the home of the public library, the art
center, and the historical museum. It will also
provide office space for the Red Cross, Com-
munity Chest, Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts. An

A Church Becomes
a Civic Center

IT was a family mat—

ty, Mississippi, last

important feature will be an assembly room for
the use of various community organizations.
Around the church is a lot consisting of part
of the property purchased and given the city
and this is to be developed into an attractive
park. The project whenxcpompleted will serve
to perpetuate the first church of any denomina—
tion to be erected in North Carolina and at the
same time it will honor the memory of Mrs.
Richardson’s, father, the late { Reverend J.
Henry Smith, D.D.,,who for thirty-seven years
was pastor of the church, and for Whom the
Smith. Memorial Building, north of the main
structure, was .named. The flew building is to
be erected between the old church plant and
the Smith Memorial Building. '

One stipulation in connection with the gift
is that the original architectural exterior‘of the
church should be preserved as fully as possible.
The other is that should the center ever be
used for any purpose other than that for which
it is intended it will no longer be the posses-
sion of the municipality.

THE Lions Club of
Newburgh, New
York, has presented
to the Recreation
Commission and through this body to the
children of the city, a sled-slide of steel and
wooden construction, erected in Recreation
Park. Fifteen feet high the slide provides a
twenty-five degree incline. Since it is artifici- '
ally frozen it will afford opportunity for sleigh—
riding when snow and ice are available no-

where else. '

A Sled-Slide for
Newburgh

 

 

SELF-GOVERN-
ment in club and
league organization
is a goal towards
which the Philadelphia Hobby League is well
on its way. Each of the 34 member clubs in'
the league elects a representative to a Council
which formulates policies of the league, directs
the house government, and arranges for spe—
cial activities such as the Hobby Show and
the annual magazine, The Hobbyist. Another
example of the self-governing trend of the

37

Self-Government in
a Hobby League

38 WORLD AT PLAY

 

  
     

  

EAGLE

RINGER
(Patented)

WRITE FOR FREE
BOOKLET

Horseshoe Pitching is a game that appeals
to everyone interested in playgrounds. Get
your free copy of “Howto Organize a Horse-
shoe Club” and see how handily the game is

adapted to your requirements.

The Diamond line of Pitching Horseshoes
and accessories includes everything needed
in promoting the game. Ask for catalog and
rule books when you write.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

 

 

The New

AMERICAN
C H U R C H
MONTHLY

Stands for straight thinking, knowledge of

the facts and the Faith, and fearlessness in contending for
principles.

Our old friends are enthusiastic and new

ones are being added daily because they find in these pages
stimulating and thought-provoking approaches to the problems
that arise every day in the Anglican Church.

THE NEW AMERICAN CHURCH MONTHLY
95 MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y.

Enter my subscription for ............ ..years. I enclose $ ............. ..
Name .......................................................................................... ..
Address ........................... .; ......................................................... ..
R-4

Rates:
2 years $5.00 Canada 25: a year extra

1 year $3.00 Foreign 50¢ a year extra

league will be this year’s Hobby Show—to be
held at the Commercial Museum, May 2—6—
which will be entirely in charge of the hobby-
ists themselves except for the general advice
of the director of the show. The Hobby League
is a Philadelphia Playground and Recreatiop
Association activity, with a paid-up member—
ship of 2,000. Its headquarters are at 17th and

Pine streets.

Symphony Orchestra Makes Progress—An
activity of which the Board of Recreation of
Summit, New Jersey, is justly proud is the
Summit Symphony Orchestra now numbering
43 members who rehearse each week in the
auditorium of the high school.  Fred Muller,
conductor of the high school band and orches-
tra, is the leader.

National Folk Festival in Washington —
Washington will be host to the Fifth Annual
National Folk Festival which will be held May
6th, 7th and 8th at Constitution Hall under the
sponsorship of the Washington Post Folk Fes—
tival Association. Further information may be
secured from the Washington Post Festival
Association, 13337—43 E Street, N. W., Wash-

ington, D. C.

May Day—Child Health Day—In 1928 a
Congressional Resolution was passed authorizing
the President to proclaim May Day as Child
Health Day. Each year since that time Child
Health Day has been observed and special activi-
ties appropriate to the day have been sponsored
by the Children’s Bureau of the Federal govern—
ment. The slogan for the 1938 observance will be
“Speed Children on the Road to Health,” and
every community is urged to make full use of its
resources in order to insure to children safe birth,
normal growth, and protection against disease and
accident in their progress from infancy to ma-
turity. It is suggested that children may have a
part in the observance through exhibits, demon-
strations, programs, plays, games and festivals
illustrating the health needs of children, healthful
activities and progress made during the year in
their knowledge concerning the protection of their
own health and of the health of the community.

Hikers’ Trails 1937—The Minneapolis, Min-
nesota, Municipal Hiking Club promoted by the
Recreation Department of the Board of Park

x

 

t 5 .- . 1 , i . F ~
I t o. r  3.“? “(a \3‘ i‘
: i n i- V . :3 

Easily Applied - Inexpensive - Long Lasting

HERE is a practical solution to the dust
problem on playgroundsgtennis courts
and athletic fields!

Gulf Sani-Soil-Set—developed by Gulf’s
research technologists—is an ideal product
for dust allaying purposes on earth sur-
faces. Properly applied, it will not “track”.
It will not harm shoes or clothing. It can
be applied at low cost—and one applica-

 

tion per season or year will suHice.

Write for your copy of our free booklet
“Gulf Sani-Soil-Set.” It will give you com-
plete information about this remarkable
dust allayer.

w

r

GULF OIL CORPORATION

GULF REFINING COMPANY

GENERAL OFFICES: GULF BUILDING.
PITTSBURGH. PA.

GULF OIL CORPORATION - QULF REFINING COMPANY, .
General Odices: Gulf Building, Pittsburgh, Pa. R

Please send me without obligation a copy of the booklet "Gulf .
Sani-Soil-Set for Treating Playgrounds." .
Name ...... . .. ......................  ........................... . . .
Company ............................ .  . .,._ ........ . .~ ............ . . .
Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4O

 

i

initten  tltteJVprksloog .

The Beacon
Handicraft Series

Elementary, inch-by-inch, self-instruction books in
Leathercraft, Metalcraft, Linoleum, Braiding .and
Knotting, Hand Loom Weaving, written bi-‘the

F

teacheis in the Fellowcrafte‘rs’ Guild; an'i‘taffiliate

of Boston University.

The books are inexpensive, and the materials

and tools prescribed are of minimum cost.

Average number of pages, 128. 30—40 hand;
drawn illustrations. Cloth,"$l.00. Send for descrip-

I I  ’
(we announcement.

In

'The Beacon Press, Inc.

25 Beacon'Street, Boston, Blass.

 

A Handbook of Private Schools

2ls’r Edition. May I937. I 184 pages.
4000 schools. 250 illustrations. l4
maps. round cornersI silk cloth. $6.00

STRUTHERS BURT in the December Forum and
Century—“As to the accredited upper class, if you
wish to find out more about its secondary education,
you can do no better than to read Sargent’s Hand-
book of Private Schools; 21st edition. This is as
necessary to the well-to-do parent as a marriage cer-
tificate. . . . A mine of pergnant quotations.”

UPTON SINCLAIR, Pasadena, California—“I went
through your book with great amusemnt. It seems to
me one of the most picturesque things in America.”

MARGARET MEAD, Bajoeng Gede, Bali, Netherlands
Indiesu—“l can think of no better way of measuring
the changes which have occurred in educational
thought since leaving the United States, almost tWO
years ago, than a glimpse into your Handbook.”

A BRIEF SCHOOL GUIDE

Lists the more important Boarding Schools and Junior
Colleges. 2d Edition. 1937. 132 pages. 700 schools.
14 maps. 97 illustrations. cover in color.
Single copy 25 cents.

THE SUMMER CAMP GUIDE

A Guide to the 400 better camps for boys and girls.
3d Edition. 1938. 96 pages. 8 maps. 82 illustrations.
cover in color. Single copy 25 cents. -

Write for Table 0] Contents.

PORTER SARGENT
11 BEACON smear BOSTON. MASS.

       
       
     
   
         
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       

 

, WORLD AT PLAY

Popular Handicrafts

LEATHERCRAFT
BEADCRAFT

CRYSTOL CRAFT
BASKETRY

CLAYMODELIN G

METALCRAFT .
BLOCK PRINTING
WOOD CARVING
SPONGEX
KNOTTING

We have all necessary tools and materials for a
successful craft program. Supplies unusually com-
plete and ranging from in-
expensive articles for chil-
dren,to more advanced proj-

ects 'for adults.

Only the finest materials
carried at lowest prices con-
sistent with quality.

Send 10c for 64 page, fully
illustrated catalogue of sup-
plies. Thousands of hard to
get tools and materials for
all the above crafts are listed
and described. "

AMERICAN HANDICRAFTS CD.

Distributors of Quality Handicraft Supplies
193 WILLIAM STREET NEW YORK. N. Y.

2124 SOUTH MAIN STREET. LOS ANGELES. CALIF.

 

Commissioners has issued its Year Book for 1937
under the "title, “The Hikers’ Trails of 1937.”
The photographs and the reports of the interest-
ing activities of the club make it an unusually at-

tractive and readable bbok.

A New Swimming POOl for Pueblo—Dur-
ing the spring of 1938 the recreation facilities of
Pueblo, Colorado, will be greatly augmented by
the completion of the new swimming pool and
auditorium at the Colorado State Fair grounds.
The pool, of Olympic proportions, will be set in
the center of a large building arranged so as to be
Outdoors in the summer and indoors during the
winter. A grand stand will be constructed at one
end of the building to provide seating capacity for
hundreds of people, as well as locker and shower
facilities and other necessities. This project is be-
ing constructed under the sponsorship of City
Commissioner Ray H. Talbot of Pueblo and the
Recreation Commission, and by funds supplied by
the Federal government.

National Boys and Girls Week—The 1938

Observance of National Boys and Girls Week
,will be held from April 30 to May 7 inclusive

PVORLD AT PL/iY 4].

Suggestions for the observance of the week.

may be secured from the National Boys and
Girls W'eek Committee for the United States,
Room 950, 35 East \Vacker Drive, Chicago, Ill.

Motion Pictures Available—The Y.M.C.A.
Motion Picture Bureau, 347 Madison Avenue,
New York City, offers direct free and rental ser—
vice on a number of hlms of interest to recreation
workers. Among these are athletics, safety, and
health and sanitation.

A Memorial Auditorium in Willmar—Every
state in the Union, according to the November
issue of Minnesota Municipalities, contributed a
native stone to be placed in the auditorium of
Willmar, Minnesota—a memorial to its dead of
all wars. The municipal sponsors contributed
more than 25 per cent of the $200,000 needed and
the building was completed as a project under the
work relief program. On the main floor are the
auditorium, a stage, a property room, check room,
a memorial room, foyer and the ticket office. On
the second floor are two dressing rooms, two
meeting rooms, toilets, a janitor’s room and two
small storage rooms. On the third floor are two
additional dressing rooms, a motion picture pro-
jection room and storage space. In the basement
are an exhibition room 93 x 97 feet, a carpenter
shop, a dressing room, two showers, two toilets, a
band room 37x 24 feet, a room 24x29 feet in
which the building’s mechanical equipment is lo-
cated, and several smaller service rooms.

Training Courses in Sioux City—The De-
partment of Recreation at Sioux City, Iowa, this
fall and winter conducted a ten weeks’ course in
play production beginning October I 3th. The
classes were held once each week from 7:30 to
9:30. As part of the cost of the training course
was met by funds from a one act play competition
it was possible to keep the tuition fee at $1.00 for
the ten weeks’ course. The subjects covered by
the course included approaches to play produc-
tion, play selection, selecting the cast, blocking out
the action, rehearsals, fundamentals of acting,
stage setting, back stage organization and the pub-
lic performance.

Ann Arbor’s Orchestra—Last September the
Ann Arbor, Michigan, civic orchestra started on
its sixth season. Although in the past the orches-
tra has held its membership to forty, this year the
director, William R. Champion, has increased the
size of the group to approach more nearly the full

  
   
      
  

 
 

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line oi
Equipment

  
  

   

For all Sports CATALOG

SENT ON
REQUEST

 P. GOLDSMITH SONS, inc.
 .. AND FINDLAY $15,, in

l.......-. 135,-: -i—‘ha'w5g'2‘.’ r. mun“...5...,l‘,,...¢,.,._.,._._._.,:_.,:\‘.’E v.“ ,3; ;__ . _. _ J .5” . , _u- 6 ,. .w.,_,_.«_;_ : . . at . .‘._,,,4_._

 

 

World’s Best Quality
-—af Lawesf Prices!

Make your own Beaded Bogs, Belts, Brocelets, Neckloces, Clips,
Hot-Plate Mats, Coasters, Wall Plcques, etc. The new, eosy-to-
follow, Wolco Instruction ond Design Booklets ore ovoiloble
ot 10¢ per copy. Send for them NOW and get Somple Cords

of Actuol Beads FREE.
I] WOOD BEADCRAFT D TILE BEADCRAFT
El CUBE BEADCRAF'I’

E] INDIAN BEADCRAFT

Check the Beodcrofts in which you ore interested ond send to:
for eoch Instruction ond Design Booklet desired (Beod somples
included)-—or it you preter,'send for our fREE LITERATURE de-

scribing the various Beodcrofts.

WALCO BEAD CO. DEPT. TR-8 7W. 37TH ST..N.Y.C.
EDUCATIONAL ° USEFUL ° FASCINATING

  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
   

symphony instrumentation. The orchestra is a.
non-profit enterprise organized to furnish musical

recreation and training to residents of Ann Arbor

and the surrounding communities. Eight major

engagements have been booked for the winter sea—

son, half of them out of town.

National Music Week—The 1938 observance
of National Music \Veek—the fifteenth to be
held—will occur the first week in May. In—
formation and literature regarding the celebra-
tion of the week may be secured from C. M.

 
 

42 WORLD AT PLAY

Extend your recreation hours
into the cool of the evening

with Monarch Floodlights!

Write to —

Monarch Industries

DEPT. R.

917 SO. MAIN ST. CO. BLUFFS. IA.

[Manufacturers of doodlights for
all outdoor purposes

 

Tremaine, Secretary, National Music Week

   committee, 3O Rockefeller Plaza, New York
AND COMMUNITY W

The Theory 0f I“)? Its Influence Upon Meetings of the Women’s Division, N-A-A-F-
Character, Objectives, and Programs

By Charles D. Giauque. Raymond M. Porter, and H. D. Edgren -—At a _1un(:heon to b.e held, In Ailgnta’ Gem-gm,

Edned by WARREN T, POWELL on Aprll 22nd, the Women s D1V1sion, N.A.A.F.,

STIMULATING SUGGESTIONS To LEADERS will celebrate its fifteenth anniversary. Other

price, net, 75 cents meetings scheduled by the Division in-

At the Better B°°k3h°PS ———'— clude a breakfast at Atlantic City on April

NEW 3335  PRESCEICAGO 8th at the Ambassador Hotel, a breakfast at

Boston Pittsburgh San Francisco the Hotel Sherman, Chicago, IllinOiS: on April
Detroit Kansas City Portland Ore.

8th, and breakfast meetings at the Hotel Curtis

at Minneapolis, Minnesota, on April 1st and at
Salt Lake City, Utah, Beau Brummel Hotel,

 pool Data and April 15th. There will also be a meeting at
Spokane, \Vashington, on April 5th and 6th.
Re'Ference Annual Information regarding the schedule of meet-

ings. may be secured from Miss Mary Van
Horn at the headquarters of the Women’s Di-
vision, 303 West 42nd Street, New York City.

(1937 Edition. Vol. V)

$3.00 Prepaid

Ann Arbor’s Civic orchestra—Nine years
0 I92 pages filled mm a vasf ago the First Methodist Church of Ann Arbor,
Michigan, sponsored a iive piece ensemble. Today
this ensemble is a forty piece civic orchestra giv-
ing concerts in towns outside of Ann Arbor.

assortment of informative
material for those interested
in swimming pools in any way.

A Publicity Suggestion—On the iirst page of
the Cincinnati, Ohio, Times-Star of November

EARL K COLLINS Editor 9th the following boxed in note appears under the

heading “Suggestions”:
425 Fourth A , . . . . . '
venue New York N Y “The Recreation Commissmn has prepared a

bulletin giving twelve pages of suggestions for
Thanksgiving parties, including games for large
and small groups, invitations, decorations, stunts
and plays. The bulletin will be sent upon receipt
payable to Earl K. Collins of ten cents in stamps to the office of the Public
Recreation Commission, 114 City Hall.”

Make all checks. money orders. etc..'

 

WORLD AT PLAY 43

I lPLhYGRObNI) ' r
Apmmos t

 

Get this Catalog of
Safety Playground Equipment

EVERWEAR complete selection of Playground apparatus offers you

something more than durability and playability. It guarantees
SAFETY in every piece of equipment.

The 1938 EVERWEAR catalog describes the new safety swings-—

rubber encasedu-which take the injury element out of swings . .
and' exclusive features on merry-go-rounds, slides and ladders

safe climbing apparatus . . .

. it includes a really

that make for safety. There is a reason why EVERWEAR playground equipment is found
on finest playgrounds everywhere. It is the equipment you can depend on for safety,

durability and economy.

Send for your copy of this catalog TODAY and see how EVERWEAR can fill your play-

ground needs. There is no charge. Just fill in and mail the coupon below.

Ever Wear

Manufacturing Company
SPRINGFIELDl OHIO

EVERWEAR also manafaétures a complete line of
beach and pool equipment; If you. wish to have
this catalog, mark coupon.

The Allegan Project—One of the Federal
government resettlement projects in Michigan has
been offered the state for future administration,
according to the November 7th issue of the
Detroit N etvs. Known as the Allegan project, the
land embraces approximately 35,000 acres a few
miles northwest of the city of Allegan. The land
for the most part is of the submarginal type—too
poor for successful farming but holding great pos—
sibilities for recreational development. The Kala-
mazoo River flows through the property which
also contains a number of lakes and small streams.
Work has progressed through the CCC camps in
the establishment of camp sites, game refuges,
bathing beaches, shelters and other reCreational fa-
cilities. Much lake and stream improvement has
been undertaken. While there is much yet to be
done a splendid start has been made, and on the
completion of the project southeastern Michigan
will have a much needed recreation area capable
of serving many thousands of people.

Model Hobby Rooms — Hobby rooms de-
signed particularly for the pursuit of various rec—
reational and educational activities will be one of

EvanWaaa MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Springfield, Ohio

Please send me the FREE catalog of EVERWEAR
playground equipment.

( ) I am also interested in beach and pool
apparatus.

 

 

V‘-

VOIT
PLAYGROUND BALLS

Inflated general utility balls for many group games includ-
ing Catch Ball, Call Ball, Pin Ball, Water Polo, Dodge Ball

“Kick Ball, Volley Ball, Soccer Ball, Corner Ball, Puncli

Ball, Basketball, Captain Ball, Hand Bat Ball, etc.

Made of highest-grade dark-red smooth lively rubber in
8 popular sizes from 6” up. Designed to withstand tough
punishment, whether on smooth floor or sharp-surface play-
ground. Quality molded construction—no bothersome
bladder. Weather-water-proof—can be easily washed, and
kept clean and sanitary. F ool-proof valve. Complete with

inflating equipment. SCHOOL PRICES.
Write Dept. R for Complete Catalog

W. J. VIJIT RUBBER CORP.

   

YOUTH JOURNEYS AND THE SOCIAL SCIENCES

For Your Library

Recreation for Girls and Women

by ETHEL BOWERS

The result of many years’ work with girls, this
book is an invaluable source of guidance as well

as a practical handbook of physical activities. ,
$3.00

Social Games for Recreation
by B. S. MASON and E. D. MITCHELL

Now‘ in its fourth printing, this comprehensive
collection of social games and activities fully
answers the question of “What shall we-play?”

Illustrated, $2.50

Active Games and Contests

by B. S. MASON and E. D. MITCHELL

In this volume over 1800 games and contests cov—
ering the field of active play are classified and
described. Third large printing.

Illustrated, $3.00

Sports for Recreation and Howto Play Them
Compiled by the Department of Intramural Sports,

University of Michigan, E. D. MITCHELL, Editor

A complete encyclopedia fully describing over 28
of our most popular recreational sports. Each
sport is treated from the standpoint of beginner
or average player. Illustrated, $2.50

Primitive“ and Pioneer Sports
by B. S. MASON

Here is a collection of picturesque, outdoor sports
that appeal to every recreational leader and physi—
cal director. Contains descriptions of how to make
and use Boomerangs, Ropes, Rope-Spinning,
Whips, Tomahawks, Blow Guns, Darts, etc.

Illustrated, $2.50

Selected Recreational Sports for
Girls and Women

by JULIA H. POST and MABEL J. SHIRLEY

The Sports described and illustrated are: Deck

Tennis, Horseshoe Pitching, Badminton, Table
Tennis, Shulileboard, Clock Golf, Paddle Tennis,
and Tetherball. Illustrated, $2.00

Play Streets
and Their Use for Recreation Programs

by EDWARD V. NORTON

Outlining the problems, activities, organization
and administration of Play Street Programs.

Illustrated, $1.00

The Game Way to Sports

by H. Arwoon REYNOLDS

Containing a series of lead—up games for the fol—
lowing sports: Baseball, Football, Basketball,
Swimming, Soccer, Volley Ball, Tennis, Golf,
Field Hockey, and Ice Hockey. Illustrated, $2.00

Send for Our Complete, Illustrated
Catalogue of Books on Recreation,
Sports, Dancing, Etc.

A. S. BARNES 6; COMPANY

Publishers for One Hundred Years
67 WEST 44th STREET NEW YORK

 

the unusual features of the homes and gardens
exhibit at the 1939 Golden Gate International Ex-
hibition of San Francisco Bay. A large ‘area in
the homes and gardens building will be devoted to
a series of model rooms. In addition to elaboif-
ately planned rooms with special cabinets and
shelving for the showing of collections, several
diSplays will illustrate the advantage 'to which
unused basements or attic space can be put by in-
expensive alterations.

Youth Journeys and the Social Sciences
(Continued from page 5)

In the United States

In the ‘United States the 1937 summer an-
nouncements of the Youth Hostel Association not
only showed a varied schedule of trips to Europe
but described a new innovation called “The Roll-
ing Youth Hostel,” which through the courtesy of
railway representatives makes available a tourist
coach outfitted with cooking equipment and room
for bicycle storage and a hostel mother and father
in charge. Groups coming East leave San Fran—
cisco and those going West, Montreal, for two
months—10,000 miles at a cost of $195.00—circ1—
ing from the Canadian Rockies through Cali-
fornia and back the Southern Route with Grand
Canyon, Santa Fé and Salt Lake City included;
the Hostel remaining on a sidetrack whenever ex—
cursions by bicycle are desired.

There is no School Journeys Association in the
United States and there seems to be very little
expression of general interest among teachers for
the advantages in teaching made possible by such a
cooperative effort. However, in America there
are a number of enterprises directed toward the
same goals as these laboratory methods found in
other countries. Antioch College was established
to demonstrate the principle Of actual experience
in out—of-school situations paralleling theoretical
instruction; Bennington College provides for a
work and experience period away from the col—
lege; “The Junior Year Abroad” has been estab—
lished for some time as part of progressive college
curricula; a bulletin from the New Jersey Teach-
ers College announces for the summer of 1938,
“Continental United States—a field study course
in American life—twelve thousand live hundred
miles in sixty-two days—ten points credit”; New
College requires a year of study abroad as part of
teacher education, as well as a period in industry
and in living and working in a rural district at

YOUTH JOURNEYS AND THE SOCIAL SCIENCES 45

their “Community” in North Carolina. Horace
Mann School for Boys has taken its students on-
automobile trips in America; the Riverdale School
has sent groups to Europe; the Carey School in
Maryland has undertaken an annual Sweden Trip
for its students, and the Bentley, Kansas, High
School has made a study trip of the United States.
There are others, but not of such numbers that
there is difficulty in recording them.

The Lincoln School in New York City has set
an example of a school journey that could well be
copied by other progressive schools. The science
teacher and his Wife, who advises the girls and
has charge of the physical education program,
planned a trip last summer with a group of boys
and girls, making their farm in Maine headquar-
ters and from there bicycled around the New
England Youth Hostel Loop, studying the trees,
flowers, animals, and geology of the region. Their
report on the project after their return to school
in September showed so much of value that the
school arranged for twenty children and five lead-
ers who were studying “Man’s Life in an,Indus-
trial Age” to spend a month there, living in a
rural setting to see and understand some of the
problems met by our rural population as well as
learning some of the techniques of living together
in an interdependent group.

We are in a period when not only the “New
Leisure Challenges the Schools” but one in which
the needs of a new and changed world challenge
the schools. Newer ways for newer times must
be found. Schools must extend their laboratory
~methods in citizenship education with vicarious
experience through films, with direct experience
on short and long visits, with trailers, country and
city homes, youth hostels, both stationary and
rolling, periods of living and working in city and
country, in the United States and abroad, with
broadly trained and energetic leadership seeing
citizenship education as broader, deeper living in
varied experiences which will bring deeper and
wider understandings of one’s self in relation to
others all the way from nursery school into adult
years, a continuous process as long as' one lives.

 

NOTE—uParts of this article are reprinted with the permission
of The New York Times.

A Study of Play Accidents in
Pittsburgh

(Continued from page 8)

Too often adults believe that they are still as
good in a particular game as they were when

1001 CRAFT IDEAS

 
  

m “"8 NEW CATALOG
/  FREE'

Sena for
Co 1
‘

    

Your
Copy

34 PAGES
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED

IDEAS . . . ideas . . . ideas . . . at Craft Service

practical craftsmen are always developing new
handicrafts, from large stock of standard and hara-
to-iind materials. This new catalog shows yOu
latest distinctive projects in head kits, metal work,
plastics, celluloid, boondoggling, woodburning, our
popular kit method of supply. etc.’ Get your c0pv
See how it opens new fields for you, arouses

tresh enthusiasm. Catalog supply limited . . .
better write today.

SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO
RECREATION LEADERS

Schools, clubs. camps and organizations every-
where iind Craft Service serves their needs
understandmgly. Write for prices and discounts.

CRAFT SERVICE

Dept. 82 360 University Ave. Rochester, N. Y.

CRAFT SERVICE

youngsters. When they fall they are more easily
hurt because they have not been active for a length
of time and their neuro-muscular coordination has
deteriorated to some degree.

5. Accidents take an enormous jump during the
summer months when more facilities are placed
into operation. Accidents occurred most fre-
quently from 12:00 noon to 6:00 P. M. as com-
pared with the morning hours and evening hours.
One must not overlook the fact, however, that it
is possibly due to the fact that the junior play-
grounds were open only until 5 :00 o’clock.

6. Swings were the highest contributors to the
causes of accidents. Children most frequently in-
jured were the youngsters between the ages of
three to seven who were struck when they walked
into the path of the swing. The erection of bar-
riers about the swing area or the “zoning” of

- swing areas with lines would remedy this condi-

tion to a great degree.

7. As to the part of the body most frequently
injured, head injuries were more frequent, there
being four times as many as those to the arm

and leg.

46 THE l/VITCHERY OF IVALKING

.GROUP WORK INSTITUTE

May 31—-—Iune I7. 1938

WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
ATHREE WEEKS institute for experienced group workers iu-

cluding credit courses in Principles of Group Work. Supervision
of Group Work, Work with Individuals in Groups. and the Use of
Creative Arts in Group Work (dramatics. crafts. music).
A bachelor’s degree from a college of approved stauding is required
for admission. For information address

SCHOOL OF APPLIED SOCIAL SCIENCES
Western Reserve University Cleveland. Ohio

The Witchery of Walking

(Continued from page 10)

The area around White Rock Lake boasts visit-
ors of nearly every bird family. Long before the
migrant shrike that comes in early April together
with the loggerhead of the same family, there is
the pleasure of their trek. The last mentioned is
about the size of a mocking bird with head of
blue black and a bill like a parrot. He is one of
the preying birds like a hawk.

In midsummer, the light wires are heavy with
swallows and the kildees hop back and forth on

the lawns, delighting in the man-made rain of-

water sprinklers.

The water, of course, draws many water birds.
I like to watch the kingfisher with his big blue
head, his ruffed neck and sawed-off body sit on a
certain elm branch out over the lake intent on his
business. He is diligent, and dives so directly
down into the water when he spies a fish that he

appears to have fallen. Pelicans and sea gulls are'

frequent, and in the winter every variety of duck,
even the English callers. Last winter a flock of
trumpeter swans appeared in the middle of the
lake. These are large and rarely seen. They took
off at dawn.

For all winged life, the sky is a stage and they
perform engagingly against a changing scenery of
clouds. v

There is no dOubt that a childlike interest in
woodlore and a curiosity about one or more of
the several branches of natural science give zest
to walking. While the act is in itself a worth-
while expenditure of leisure, the participant
misses available enjoyment unless he returns
richer in mind and body as a result of his hours
in the open. In most instances, the nearer the
route retains its natural contour and uncut vege-
tation, the more perfect is the walking prospect.

For myself, after years of walking, I am as
happy at uncovering a new footpath, a walking

 

Ernest Ashley

ERNEST ASHLEY, dean of tennis, as he was af-
fectionately called because he built the first ten-
nis courts in Allentown, Pennsylvania,_ and at
sixty—Eve years of age still played a game envied
by much younger men, died suddenly on Decem—
ber 14th. For eight years he served on the School
Board and on the Recreation Commission, and
he was superintendent of parks for two years. It
was his delight to make facilities not only useful
but beautiful as well. Every spot that he touched
took on greater beauty. He developed the parks
as recreation centers, picnic grounds, baseball,
football and soccer fields, volley ball and tennis
courts—wevery facility he could adapt to recrea-
tional needs was used with lightning rapidity. His
plans were not nnished and he was eagerly await-
ing opportunities to do bigger things. Last fall
he planted much which will bring joy and beauty
to the city and enhance Allentown’s memorial of
him.

map, a vista never seen before, as a naturalist is
at discovering a new specimen. Even from the
car or train window, every quiet lane or twisting
path invites my eye to pleasant contemplation of
all it oii'ers——sunlight, deep breathing of pure
outdoor air, mental relaxation, spiritual uplift. A
woodland scene entices me with its innnite splen-
dor. Standing in a virgin wood, I feel humble
and insignificant. Yet this atomic guage of stature
is good discipline for the ever-vaunting ego. Be—
sides, there is release in the realization that nat-
ural forces are working out life patterns, and will
be when my own small problems are over.

I am on my way back home; the warm, pun—
gent air is a leaven to my senses. The path leads
across a creek—clear, brisk and singing. Never,
between the months of May and October, am I
able to resist the wading instinct which its n1erri-.
ment invites. The wet, clean sand beneath, my
feet takes off the years. “Now We Are Six”
with Christopher Robin, and a participant, in
spirit, with him in all of Milne’s delightful child
adventures. A wading trip Up through the arch
of overhanging willows suggests a land that only
a writer for children could know. The vista into
that enchanted land is only the length of a breath,
but its intangible charm, while not translatable to
hard, cold words, is linked with a kindred feeling
for Pan and a “Midsummer Night’s Dream” folk

THIRTY-TWO YEARS OLD 47

Thirty-two Years Old

April 12, 1938 is important in the world recrea— -

tion movement because thirty-two years ago on
that day, in Washington, D. C., the National
Recreation Association was organized. It was
then known as the PlaygrOUnd Association of
America, later as the Playground and Recreation
Association of America, and finally as the Na-
tional Recreation Association. One of its meetings
was held with President Theodore Roosevelt in
the White House and twenty-five years later on
the anniversary meeting, again a meeting was held
in the Cabinet Room in the White House with
President Hoover and several of his Cabinet
members present.

Quietly and without great display the work of
the National Recreation Association has been car-
ried on year after year. The work has never been
that of a single individual or a few individuals
but of thousands of cooperating men and women
throughout the country. ’

that we know in our hearts exist but do not talk
about

Yes, walking is clean, healthy fun. It entails
the smallest monetary outlay per hour of hap-
piness that can be found. It is the password to a
green world of peace and measured beauty.

Newton D. Baker

(Continued from page 12)

said anything bitter or unkind about anybody. He
had the philosophic capacity to sit back and con-
template himself and the world with perspective
and a quiet humOr.

With him modesty and courage went hand in
hand. He was the type of man who never wanted
credit when things went right. On those occa-
sions it was always somebody else who was re-
sponsible—it was Pershing, it was Bliss, it was
March. But if things went wrong, as they fre-
quently did in the conduct of so gigantic an en-
terprise, then as Secretary of War he insisted on
assuming the entire responsibility. I remember
once that with some feeling of indignation a few
of us tried to get him to dissociate himself from
responsibility for an incident for which he was
being widely attacked, but with which he had had
nothing whatever to do. All we could get from
him was the laughing comment: “What’s a Sec-

retary of \Var for if it isn’t to take the gaff?”

i/am picqu

+MITCHELL"°§.'L',‘.'."

PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

-w¢wedmZZeZ/aa

 

In the selection of playground equipment, high
play value. and diversity of play are important
. . . but the safety factor is even more important.
It is because Mitchell "Betterbilt" Apparatus
scores exceptionally high on all counts that it is
preferred equipment for parks and schools.

Write for detailed information on complete line
. . . including swimming pool equipment. Also
ask about our steel chassis Fold—O-Leg Tables.

 

MITCHELL MFG. CO. Dcpt.R-4 Milwaukee. Wis.

 

This was Newton Baker. He had a fine care-
lessness about his own reputation. He asked for
nothing except the privilege of serving. He
wanted no reward.

Lord Morley said of Gladstone: “He so lived
and wrought that he kept the soul alive in Eng-
land.” It is to few men in public office or in
private life that such a tribute can be paid. But
this was Newton Baker’s contribution to his gen-
eration. Here in Cleveland, here in Ohio, here in
the United States, he was one of that small band
that kept the soul alive. If even one of our uni-
versities, every four years or so, were able to
turn out a Newton Baker, we could face the
future with less foreboding. With that kind of
genius for great citizenship, with that type of
clarity and vision, the world of today and of to-
morrow would not seem so troubled and so dark.
But talents such as he possessed cannot be manu-
factured. They come from some alchemy of the
human spirit which we do not understand. All
that we can hope for is that from the same mys-
terious source America will produce other lead—
ers like Newton Baker to keep the soul of this
country alive.

48 MRS. MARY J. COT/VLEY

  

  
 

SAFETY FUR
Supervised Playgrounds

luff of the press

 

A 28 page pamphlet on safety in
relation to playground administra-
tion and activity programs. Contains
sections on physical conditions; the
use of apparatus; representative
safety programs; organization of
patrols and safety clubs, games,
handcraft activities and campaigns.

   
 
 
 
  

  

Price 25 cents

SAFETY EDUCATION
MAGAZINE

provides material for a well-round-
ed safety program based on sea-
sonal hazards. The colored posters,
graded lesson outlines, plays, stor-
ies, informational articles, accident
facts, patrol news items and other
features are prepared by school

people who are experts in the field
of safety teaching.

  

  
  
 
 
 
 
  

Subscription - $1.00 a Year

 

  

EDUCATION DIVISION
NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL

One Park Avenue

New York. N. Y.

   

  

 
 

Mrs. Mary J. Cowley

MRS. MARY JUNKIN COWLEY, who died No-
vember 23, 1937, was one of the most widely
known and best beloved citizens of Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. Her activities in women’s clubs,
her membership on the Pittsburgh Board of Pub—
lic Education, and, especially, her leadership in
the playgrounds of the North Side of Pittsburgh,
brought her into daily contact with men, women,
and children of all ranks of life.

For more than thirty years she had worked
hard to start and develop summer playgrounds
and all-year recreation centers. Flower days, shop,
sewing, music, ball games, volunteer service, and
her personal acquaintance with directors, children,
and parents differentiated these playgrounds from
the standardized type of recreation held. Mrs.
Cowley was never too busy nor too tired to at-
tend festivities in the elementary schools and rec-
reation centers.

Her “safe and sane” celebration in a public
park each fourth of July morning drew thousands
of spectators to see colorful pageants. In many a
neighborhood the exhibition day of the summer
playground was the important event of the sea-
son for parents, as well as children. The weekly
flower days brought the growers of blossoms into
wholesome, friendly relations with the dwellers in
congested districts. Each summer season was
brought to a glorious close by.the field day with
its drills, games, and contests. The annual re-
ports (published 1905-1932) were live, human
documents, illustrated by photographs taken by
Mrs. Cowley and the professional photographers
of the Pittsburgh daily papers. These newspapers
printed many accounts of the activities in the

. North Side playgrounds.

When Mrs. Cowley resigned from her play-
ground work she was rendered a reception at the
Twentieth Century Club, November 23, 1934. A
public elementary school was named for her in
1914, and later her name was given to a recrea-
tion center.

Appointed to the Board of Public Education
when it was organized in November, 1911 and
serving continuously, Mrs. Cowley was sworn in

for a term of six years a fortnight before her
death.

Children and their parents referred to her as
“Our Mrs. Cowley.” The morning after her
death a school boy, holding in his hand a clipping
from a Pittsburgh newspaper, said to his teacher.

HERMANN MERKEL 49

Hermann Merkel

HERMANN W. MERKEL, general superintend-
ent of the Westchester County Park Commission
and former New York City park official, died on
February 28th at the age of sixty-four. Born in
Germany, Mr. Merkel came to this country at the
age of sixteen. He became an American citizen
and shortly after his twenty-first birthday went to
Germany to study forestry, returning to New
York after a short time. For twenty-six years
Mr. Merkel was associated with the New York
Zoological Society, most of the time as general
superintendent of maintenance. During this pe-
riod he was responsible for the greater part of the
landscape improvements at the Bronx Zoo. He
was also consultant with the Bronx River Park-
way Commission, acting as chief landscape archi-
tect. In 1925 he became general superintendent
of maintenance .for the Westchester Park Com-
mission, and it was under his direction that the
natural beautihcation of the Bronx River Park-
way progressed. In 1933 he was made chief execu-
tive of the Park Commission. Mr. Merkel was
the founder of the American Society of Park
Executives and for years served as its secretary
and treasurer. For two years he was president
of the organization.

 

“She was my friend.” This statement, echoed by
thousands of men, women, and children, is proba-
bly the greatest tribute to a woman who had
courageously faced the sorrows of life and de-

lighted in its joys. (From statement prepared by
Dr. Elizabeth B. Cowley.)

Music Is Fun!

(Continued from page 20)

their director. There is always the study of de-
lightful new music and the thrill of playing with,
and becoming a part of the group. To make
music funful, joyous and satisfying—this is the
objective. To add to the group fellowship, socials
are held from time to time.

At present, each of the three community cen-
ters has a children’s orchestra, with members from
fifteen to twenty-five years old. In addition, there
are many beginners taking bi-weekly instruction
in some instrument with a membership in an or-
chestra as their goal. The children of kindergar-
ten and primary age are organized into melody
bands where many are obtaining their hrst group

What Our Readers Say About

School Activities

"I think that this journal
(School Activities) is worthy
of a place in the library of
every school administrator
and should be available to
teachers everywhere.”

(Signed)
LEROY E. COWLES. Dean
Universitiy of Utah

“I find the School Activi-
ties Magazine the inost valu-
able one placed upon my
desk. There are so many
practical things inside that
one may use in his own
school. I never expect to be
without it as long as 1 am
connected with schoolwork."

(Signed)

E. V. CORE, Principal
Union High School
Union, West Virginia

Successful educators everywhere are using
School Activities. We invite you to join this
rapidly growing'group of school people who
are using this keen tool to improve their work.

Send us your subscription order immediately.
We are certain School Activities will not dis-
appoint you ;—if it does, just cancel your sub-
scription after you receive the first issue.

Subscription Price $2.00

School Activities Pub. Co.

1515 Lane Street Topeka, Kansas

 

musical instruction. These children in turn re-
ceive instruction in the various instruments of
the rhythm band, including the cymbals, triangle
bars, saxoflute, melody Marimba bells, rhythm
sticks, snare drums, castanets, tone block and
beater, tambourines and sleigh bells. The melody
band director also holds classes of instruction for
the harmonica and the ukulele. From the melody
band training the child with interest and aptitude
begins the study of some band or orchestral
instrument.

Last September the Children’s Recreation De-
partment Orchestra was organized. Members
were selected from children showing ambition and
talent in the community center orchestras. Each
Tuesday evening of the week these twenty-five
young musicians meet at the Y.M.C.A. for the
pleasure of playing together for an hour. Among
the twenty-live there are some who began their
musical instruction with the department just two
years ago and are now having the fun of being a
part of an orchestra.

The instrumental music program is carried on

SO RECREATION

f

Can You Resist This Value for One Dollar?
Twelve Issues of

GAMES DIGEST

EDITED B Y EL Y CULBER TS 0.1V

 

MARCH—“TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

Questions-and-Answer Games PAGE
SPECIAL Somewhat Puzzling, by Gladys Lloyd .................................... .. 7
QUIZ Ask-me-another .............  .......................................................... .. 11
QUIZ True-or-false ................................................................................ .. 12
-TEST Triumvirates .............................................................................. .. 13
QUIZ Associations ................................................................................ .. 23
QUIZ What Do You Know? .............................................................. .. 34
Problems
BRIDGE Double-dummy Problems .......................................................... .. 33
MATHEMATICS Mathematical Puzzles .............................................................. .. 33
PINOCHLE Double-dummy Problem .......................................................... .. 35
CHECKERS Checker Problems .................................................................... .. 45
CHESS Chess Problems .......................................................................... .. 55
WORDS Crossword Puzzles ...................................................................... .. 62
Card Games
BETTING Slippery Sam .............................................................................. .. 3
FOUR-HAND Cinch  .......................................................................................... .. 8
TWO-HAND Jumbo, by Bill Beers ................................................................ .. 17
SOLITAIRE The Pyramid .....................................................................  ....... .. 30 Would you
CONTRACT BRIDGE The Opening Notrumper, by A. P. Sheinwold ...................... .. 31
POKER You Can Only Raise Once! by C. W. Chick ........................ .. 39 like to see
PINOCHLE Partnership Pinochle, by A. M. Sobel .................................... .. 49
Board Games a sample COPY?
TILES Mah Jongg .................................................................................. .. 5
JUVENILE Simple Pencil-and-Paper Games, by Walter F. Wyman ...... .. 26 JUST SEND
JUVENILE Checkerboard Games ................................................................ .. 28
BACKGAMMON Early Choices ............................................................................ .. 36 A 3-CENT
CHECKERS I Cover the Checkerboard, by William F. Ryan .................. .. 42
CHESS The Pawn Skeleton, by F. K. Perkins...: ................................ .. 53 STAMP!
CHESS ' A Rapid-transit Game .............................................................. .. 56
Parlor Entertainment .. we W111
CIPHER 0 You Cryptofans! .................................................................... .. 14 d
TRICK Do As I Do, by William E. McKenney .................................. .. 18 5611 You a
PROPRIETARY The Word Games ...................................................................... .. 20 ,
PARTIES St. Patrick’s Day, by H. D. Edgren ........................................ .. 46 recent 153118-
General

Answers ...................................................................................... .. 51

Index to Games Digest Nos. 1-6 .............................................. .. 57

Letters from Readers ................................................................ .. 60

All About Games ...................................................................... .. 64

I- - — - _ - - - _ _ _ — n _ n - — — — — n _ — _ - _ — — -_—
ON THE STANDS AND , GAMES DIGEST, INC.

380 Second Avenue, New York City
Send me one recent issue of Games Digest for the

IN THE STORES—
3-cent stamp enclosed (January 1938 or earlier).

10 cents or co
P Py If you find a dollar, send me the next twelve issues.

I
l
l
i
 I NAME ............................................................................................ ..
$1.00 per year : ADDRESS ........................................................................................ ..
i
I
I

(50c additional outside U.S.A.)

CITY ...................................................... .. STATE ........................ ..
($1.00 per year—50c additional outside of U.S.A.)

 

‘ MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 51

Beniamin L. Van Schaick

BENJAMIN L. VAN SCHAICK, executive secre—
tary of the Long Island State Park Commission,
died on February 18th at the age of sixty. For
twelve years he had been associated with the Long
Island park system which he served indefatigably.
Of him Park Commissioner Robert Moses, in
praising Mr. Van Schaick’s services and loyalty,
said: “Mr. Van Schaick’s death, coming so
shortly after that of Henry F..Lutz, director of
the state parks, leaves another gap in the park
’personnel which will be most difficult to fill.”

 

through the summer program as well. Instruction
is given in the park pavilions and the children
may appear as a part of the family and com—
munity night programs.

Another part of the “Music Is Fun” program
is community singing.“ Once a week at each of
the centers a crowd is waiting to greet the “sing”
man. \Vith a stereopticon the words of a song are
iiashed on a screen, with accompaniment fur-
nished by the department dance orchestra. The
repertoire includes old and new, semi-classical and
popular songs, with enough variation in each eve-
ning’s program to appeal to everyone. Talent
shows are held on each community sing night in
which children are invited to perform. The popu-
larity of the “sings” has never been doubted, since
the crowds are usually too large to be well accom-
modated. During the summer these community
sing programs are even more popular since space
is not so limited on the playgrounds. A thousand
persons formed the usual weekly crowd of enthusi-
asts gathered around the platform and screen at
Lincoln Park, which is located in the center of
the city.

Group choruses have been the indirect out-
growth of the community singing program. The
Booker T. Washington Colored Community Cen-
ter has developed a splendid men’s chorus as well
as a girls’ chorus. South Danville and Vermilion
Heights Centers have fine children’s choruses, and
both centers are preparing for spring operettas.

As a leisure-time investment, music rewards
with great profits. When the young boy plays a
game of basketball, or the young girl learns to
knit a sweater, they learn the satisfaction of
achievement. When they learn to play music they
have this satisfaction plus the lasting compensa-
:tion that comes from the practice of a great art.

 

 

  
 

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles a
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

MAGAZINES

Parks and Recreation, January 1938
Milwaukee County Parks Benefit from NYA Work-
ers, by Jay Hartnett
Public Recreation Abroad, by L. H. Weir

Institute Members Discuss Juvenile Delinquency

Planning and Civic Comment, October-December 1937
It Takes a Hotel to Fill a Park, by Harry Bloom

Child Life, February 1938
Hobby Clubs

Leisure, January 1938

What Would You Do With a Million Dollars? by
Ola Gladys Hylton

Creative Leisure, by Bernard H. Porter

Curling, by W. A. Wittich

Chess in the Modern Style, by J. S. Klar

Novel Method of Led Printing, by H. E. Zimmerman

Community Dancing 51 1a Pasadena, by Katherine
Glover

And Now Leisure, by Jay B. Nash
Pointers on Puppetry, by LeRoy Stahl
Recreation and Group Work

Leisure, February 1938
Small Town Homemade Recreation, by J. H. Juel

Fashioning Footlights a Flash in the Pan,
by Ruth D. Niles

Functions of Character-Building Agencies

The Journal of Healthland Physical Education, February
1938

Liberal Cultural Values of Physical Education, by
Frank S. Lloyd

Dance Adventures Abroad, *by Margaret Mantle
Stookey

Recreation Leadership as a College Course, by Ruth
Hill Wood

Play Without Awards
Ya rnin’

Hygeia, March 1938
Figure Skating, by Dudley B. Reed

The Girl Scout Leader, March 1938
Craft Experimentation, by C. Evangeline Ford

Better Times, February 7, 1938

Recreation and Crime Prevention, by Albert B. Hines
Community Centers of Art, by Sophie Steinbach

PAMPHLETS
Belleville, N. J.—Sixteenth Annual Report of the Recrea-

tion Commission.

Annual Report of the Director of the Recreation Com-_
mission, Bloomfield, N. 1.

Record of Accomplishment—WPA in New York City

The Hobby League News, February 1938
Issued by Hobby League of the Playground and
Recreation Association, Philadelphia, Pa.

Montreal Parks and Playgrounds Association Incorporat-
ed—Report for the Year 1937

Twenty-third Annual Report of the Department of Recre-
ation of Detroit, Mich.

Annual Report of the' Colored Recreation Association,
Richmond, Va., 1937

Year Book of the Department of Public Recreation,
Irvington, N. 1., 1937-1938

Ninth Annual Report Parks and Recreation Department,
Steubenville, Ohio, 1937

52 A SUGAR BUSH FESTIVAL

Child Life Achievement Award

 

In recognition of the services of educators of
the youth of the country, Child Life Magazine,
published by Rand McNally and Company, is of-
fering an annual Child Life Achievement Award.
On May 1, 1938, a committee of judges com-
posed of leading Americans will select the man or
woman in the educational field who in their opin-
ion has accomplished the most in the interest of
children during the year 1937. According to the
C hild Life Magazine, the candidate for the award
may be nominated by anyone. He may be a
teacher in a backwoods school, an author, a
famous educational leader, or anyone whose efforts
have furthered the interests of children’s educa-
tion. The committee will consider every candidate
carefully and will make the decision only on the
basis of accomplishment and service.

The award will be an antique bronze statuette
of a child designed by Mabel Landrum Torrey.

A Sugar Bush Festival

(Continued from page 22)

14. The Indian dropped hot stones into the sap.
When it froze he threw the ice away.

15. Three to four weeks.

16. The sap comes from all parts of the tree. If
you break a twig it will “bleed,” it comes
from above and from below. During the first
part of the season more comes from above.

I 7. South.

18. When the tree is warmed the air in the cell
spaces expands.

19. Sapsucker, porcupine, red squirrel, insects
(iiies and bees).

20. Bark vessels and hollowed logs.

21. Thirty-two quarts.

22. A yo, inch hole, 2 inches deep; breast high,
slanting up.

23. Up the sap wood and down the inner bark.

24. For individuals to carry pails of sap to the
kettle to be “boiled down.” It is a piece of
wood that goes across the shoulders to hold a
pail on each end.

25. So that you can use a siphon and run the sap
by gravity.

26. To remove impurities such as bits of ashes,
bark, etc.

27. By putting in cream, lard, or salt pork to

I break the surface tension of the foam.

28. Eleven.

29. Hot liquids contract when cooled.

30. They had to attend to sap buckets in the day.

31. Although the sugar maple makes the best
sugar it is also made from the red and silver
maples.

32. By pouring driblets of thick sirup on clean
snow.

33. Vermont produces the most sugar and New
York the most sirup.

34. Brown sugar since it is cheaper.

35. By evaporation.

36. Furs, corn and maple sugar.

37. One to six pounds.

38. It concentrates to the point where it is no
longer soluble in the water present.

39. In 1860, 40,120,205 pounds. In 1910, 14,000,-
000 pounds. In 1920, 9,691,854 pounds.
These are estimates for the United States
census.

40. The boiling point of a liquid varies with the
altitude and also concentration.

4.1. A hydrometer usually the Baume hydrometer.

42. It is a good conductor of heat which is neces-
sary for evaporation. .

43. Lower priced, steady supply, and modern
machinery for refining.

44. Trees are scattered and mostly hand labor is
required.

45. The iiowers and leaves appear at the same
time in the sugar maple.

46. Bacteria.

47. The fruit comes from end buds in the sugar
maple and from side buds in the red maple.

48. The cause of bird’s—eye and curly maple is
unknown. It is not due to woodpeckers.

TODAY’S BOY AND GIRL

49. AlthOUgh once thought of as food it is now

considered a confection. ‘
50. The maple tree,borer is the grub of a beetle.

Today’s Boy and Girl

(Continued from page 25)

all our program be worked out with the adoles-
cent instead of for them. Two quotations from
the recent book “Rediscovering the Adolescent"
by Dr. Hedley S. Dimock, are far reaching in
their significance. “Through the broad channel of
play we may fathom currents that run deep and
strong in the adolescent’s life and development.”
“In the experience of play, the deepest needs of
his personality may be wholesomer satisfied or
tragically thwarted.”

Trails

(Continued from page 26)

One can walk ten miles on a trail without more
fatigue that would grow out of a five-mile hike
on the concrete. The trail yields beneath the feet
and takes the jar off the nervous system. One who
would walk should find a congenial companion,
wear loose clothing with shoes that are large
enough with low heels and fiexible soles. I once
took two seven year old boys on a twenty-mile
hike across country in southern Michigan. They
ran the last quarter mile of the trip to Show they

were not tired. Perhaps we tend to underestimate ‘

our walking capacity.

A Recreation Museum for Juniors
(Continued from page 29)
the beauties of nature, to learn .more of the
achievements of science.” Our fundamental pre-
mise was based on the belief that “any recreational
program that justifies itself in any situation must

do so in terms of what it as activity means to the
individuals it touches.”

I'

Activities _

A list of activities now being conducted at the
Junior Recreation Museum follows:

Biology:

Study of insects, reptiles, amphibians, hsh.

Instruction in the methods of collecting, mount—
ing, preserving and classifying biological
material. '

Instruction in the care-and feeding of live speci-

UNTYING
APRON STRINGS

A Great Book for Teachers, Parents
Community Leaders, Adolescent

Young Pe0ple— Yourself

vvv

It’s a guidebook of personality development as easy
to read as the daily newspaper; yet it will help you
understand the personality problems of children,
and set you on the way to becoming a better and
happier person yourself.

If you have technical training in-psychology, you
will recognize it as accepted scientific knowledge——
and you will appreciate its readable form.

If you do not have a technical background. it will
open up a New World to you, a world in which
difficulties you thought were inevitable can be
avoided or cured—and it is no harder to under-
stand—and even more fascinating—than an ad-
venture story.

The Chapter Headings give you a bird’s-eye view
of the book:

WARPED PERSONALITY PATTERNS

Emotions the Motivating He Likes to “Show-01f"

Forces of Personality He Loves to Punish

He Goes Back to Mother’s He Isn’t Happy Unless He
Arms Is Miserable

His Hand Against the He Feels Inferior
World In Love With Himself

He Enjoys Poor Health Love That Never Grows Up

ADJUSTMENT

The Attitude of the Adult Boy and Girl Relationships
Who Would Help A Directing Philosophy

Approach Through Voca- Personality Development in
tional Interests and the School Community
Hobbies Religion (With Apologies to

Self-Understanding the Church)

The book alone is $i.00.
The book plus a year's subscription to

CHARACTER MAGAZINE is $2.00

vvv

Send Your Order to
CHARACTER ASSOCIATES. lnc.

Department R

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO. ILL.

53

54 A RECREATION MUSEUM FOR JUNIORS

STORY PARADE

A JMAGAZINE FOR BOYS AND GIRLS

announces new departments of special interest to
Recreation readers beginning with the May issue.

Story Parade

r‘1 mr nun 

    

' .mr
.

 

 " 
CRAFTS AND HOBBIES

will discuss practical ways to make pictures, hooks,
model ships and many other things. There will be
good ideas on other hobbies, too——gardening,
collecting, keeping pets.

THE PUZZLEWITS

will keep everyone busy with the secret codes,
riddles, mazes and other hard ones Nancy and
Tom try on each other.

Subscribe now for $l.50
After May lsl'I price will be $2.00

STORY PARADE 70 FIFTH AVE. NEW YORK CITY

 

mens; and maintenance of aquariums and
terrariums.

Field trips on Saturdays.

Nature Club meetings Tuesday evenings.

Geology:

Study of rocks, minerals, volcanoes, glaciers.
erosion.

Instruction in collecting and classifying rocks
and minerals. A complete laboratory for
chemical and blowpipe analysis.

Half hour stories on geology, illustrated with
hand specimens, charts, maps, and pictures
are presented to school classes, Boy Scout and
Girl Scout troops, and other junior groups
or clubs by appointment.

Stories on the following subjects are available:
Volcanoes, glaciers, erosion, rocks and min-
erals, Yosemite Valley, Crater Lake, Zion
National Park, Bryce Canyon, Grand Canyon.

Field trips to points of geological interest in
the Bay Region. ,

A large study collection is available for ad-
vanced students.

Basket Weaving:

Pine needle basket weaving on Mondays and
\Vednesdays.

Stamp Club:
Tuesday and Saturday afternoons.

- Bird Study:

Junior Audubon Club meets on Thursday
afternoons.
Bird hikes (dates set at Thursday meeting).

Botany:

Study of wild flowers, trees and shrubs.

Instruction in collecting, pressing, mounting and
classifying on Monday, Friday and Saturday.

Casting flowers and leaves in wax on Saturdays.

Wildflower collecting trips on the first Sunday
of each month. ,

A large study collection of pressed and mount—
ed specimens properly classified is available
to advanced students at all times.

Model Building:

Construction of gliders, rubber-power and gas—
oline—power model airplanes; flying instruc-
tions.

Flying model airplane contests.

(Special instruction for building contest
models.)

Junior Birdmen meetings Friday evenings.

Construction of 36” model contests yachts.

Instruction in building authentic scale models
of airplanes, ships, railroads, stage coaches.

Construction of models of historical landmarks
and buildings.

Construction of relief maps.

Building bird homes and feeding tables.

The School Club ls Here to Stay

(Continued from page 30)

dent members. Wherever possible, club activities
should grow out of curricular activities. The club
program should fit the local situation. Provision
should be made for the proper encouragement and
limitation of participation. Every student should
belong to a club but membership should be vol-
untary. All students should have equal opportuni~
ties for joining clubs. The club should be limited
in size and should not be considered vocational in
purpose. Normally the club should be scheduled
on regular school time and should usually be held
on school premises. Club \sponsors should be care-
fully chosen and assigned.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

An Appraisal of Camp Facilities

By H. D. Whiteside. Federation of Social Agencies of
Pittsburgh and Allegheny County, 519 Smithfield St.,

Pittsburgh, Pa. $.35.
HIS APPRAISAL of sixteen camps (settlement, Boy

Scout, Girl Scout, Y. M. C. A. and others) was un-
dertaken 'by the Group Work Division of the Federation
of Social Agencies of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County
at the request of the Budget Committee of the Commu-
nity Fund. No attempt was made to compare the camps
or to evaluate the effectiveness of the work done since
the diversified nature and purposes of the camps makes
this impossible. The study consists of an appraisal of
physical camp equipment and the analyzation of the in-
comes and expenditures in the 1936 season 'with a brief
description of each camp and a sample daily program.
Camp administrators will be interested in the points
stressing the importance of keeping certain kinds of rec-
ords and the advantages of cooperating in joint pur-
chasing.

Organized Safety by Organized
Parents and Teachers

National Congress of Parents and Teachers, 1201 Six—
teenth Street, N. VV., Washington, D. C.

N THIS PAMPHLET, an outgrowth of the traffic education

project of the National Congress of Parents and Teach-
ers, some traffic accident facts are presented and sug-
gestions are offered regarding things to do about them.
There is a section dealing with Home and School Cooper-
ation for Trafiic Safety and another on Community
Safety Activities of Parent-Teacher Associations. When
we are confronted with the fact that 37,800 men, women
and children were killed in traffic accidents in 1936 and
1,300,000 were injured more or less seriously, the impor-
tance of such projects as that of the National Congress of
Parents and Teachers becomes apparent.

Methods in Physical Education

Dr. Jesse Feiring Williams. Columbia University, Dr.
John I. Dambach, University of Pittsburgh, and Miss
Norma Schwendener. Columbia University. W. B.

Saunders Company, Philadelphia, Pa. $2.50.
THIS secoxn revised edition of an accepted standard

work designed to help physical education teachers to
improve their teaching effectiveness has been substantially
changed with several chapters completely rewritten,
others reorganized, and a new chapter added on the teach-
ing of games. These revisions have been made so that the
book can reHect developments in this field since the ori-
ginal edition was published in 1932. It discusses teaching
methods in general and teaching methods for special ac-
tivities such as drills, young children’s activities, calis-
thenics, gymnastics, dancing, swimming, athletics and
games.

Weather Handbook

By Lou Williams. Girl Scouts, Inc., New York. $.25.
HE WEATHER HANDBOOK, in its 1937 revised edition,

has grown from a' ten cent mimeographed bulletin to
a 33—page photo-offset booklet full of practical sugges—
tions any one can follow for forecasting the weather,
making weather vanes and clipper ship barometers, keep—
ing daily weather logs, telling the speed of the wind
without instruments, teaching others to forecast the
weather and many other such weather projects. There is
eXplanatory material on clouds, snow, rain, wind, thun-
derstorms and other “ingredients” of weather, much of
which is illustrated by photographs and diagrams.

Education for Democracy—Public

Affairs Forums

By J. W. Studebaker. Government Printing Office, VVash-
ington, D. C. $.10. "

IN THIS pamphlet (Bulletin 1935, No. 17) Dr. Stude-

baker discusses the value of forums in a democracy and
tells in detail of the experiment in conducting forums
which was established in Des Moines under his leader-v
ship. In the final chapter Dr. Studebaker outlines a plan
for a nation-wide program of forums involving a three
year experimental program.

Fun for the Family

Edited by Jerome S. Meyer. Greenberg, New York City.
$1.95.

JEROME MEYER, who has given us a number of books

designed to sharpen wits and 'provide entertainment
at parties, has now compiled a book of a thousand puz-
zles, brain twisters, parlor stunts, memory tests and “what
not,” intended for family use. In addition to the puzzles,
brain twisters and mental stunts, there are oral games,
pencil and paper games, games of action and a number
of games for special holiday occasions.

Group Work in Camping

By Louis H. Blumenthal. Association Press, New York
City. $1.25.
MR. BLUMENTHAL, as Executive Director of the San
- “ Francisco Jewish Community Center and past presi-
dent of the Pacific Camp Directors Association has had
wide experience in camping and understands its technique
thoroughly. In this volume he aims “to examine the na-
ture of groups in camps, how relationships in the group
,modify camp behavior, and how the group work process
may :become a constructive educational force in the group
setting.”
In the camp set-up there are various kinds of groups.
we usually think of the interest groups among the boys

55

56 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

or girls. But the camp as a whole is a group. Then there
are the cabin groups, activity groups, the counselor’s
group, the worker’s group each having its own objectives,
leadership and program. The proper functioning of all
these groups creates a “dynamic environment” which pro-
vides opportunity for individuals and groups to express
themselves to best advantage. The author contends that
camp groups are free from the restrictions that affect
groups in the home, the school, the church. Hence, camp
groups become unusual settings for learning. There is
more freedom for experimentation, a more wholesome
-reaction of personality on personality. The chapter on
Counselor and Other Camp Groups deals with qualities
of camp leadership. The careful selection, training and
supervision of the counselor’s group is the most important

task of the director.

A Key to the Art of Music.
By Frank Howes. Thomas Y. Crowell Company,
New York. $2.00.

Here is a book on music which will have its greatest
appeal for the advanced music lover, enabling .him to
unify his outlook on music and clarify his thinking. In
five chapters Mr. Howes covers the philosophy, tech-
nique, literature, history and criticism of music. He de-
scribes the origin of the art of music in relation to the

play instinct of man. \

Speed Ball for-Girls and Women.

By Helen M. Barton. Edwards Brothers, Inc., Ann
Arbor, Michigan. $1.25.

This 95 page photo-lithograph book is a scholarly and
usable consideration of speed ball from all angles for
the purpose of promoting interest in the game. Rules,
game-points for coach and player, basketball and soccer
techniques in speed ball, positions and. duties of players,
lead-up games, diagrams and discussions of plays, de-
scription of field and equipment and a bibliography are
included.

Organizing the Community for
Delinquency Prevention.

Bulletin No. 93 of the Community Chests and Coun-
cils, Inc., 1.55 East 44th Street, New York. $.50.

This bulletin summarizes information gathered in an
intensive study of the families of 100 delinquent youths in
Jacksonville, Florida, and reports on the conclusions
reached by the Institute for Southern Social Work .Ex-
ecutives, held at Blue Ridge, North Carolina, July 1936,
which used this Jacksonville material as a basis for study.

The two points emphasized in this bulletin are first,
that the family, rather than the child, was taken as the
point of departure. All contacts of all social agencies with
the families were studied and analyzed rather than just
the contacts of agencies with the delinquent child alone.
The second point stressed is that the study analyzed the
actual services of the social agencies to the families, cov-
ering such service from the time of their first contact
to the time of the child’s final commitment. All the chil-
dren studied were at the time of the study committed to
state industrial schools. From the point of View of public
recrea’tion, it is interesting to note that the study reports
no contact with any public recreation agency, no public
recreation centers being available within walking distance
of most of the children included in the study. The report
mentions the inadequacy of public recreation provisions.

The Model Theater.

By Victor Heinbrow. The Studio Publications, Inc.,
381 Fourth Avenue, New York. $35.

In this issue of the Hours of Leisure series Mr. Hem-
brow explains how to make a model theater equally val-
uable as a toy or for serious use. All of the drawings are

exactly to scale so that they themselves can 'be used for
the purpose, while by enlarging the designs he provides,
theaters of every size can be built. There are many illus-
trations and diagrams.

Seventy Money-Raising Plans for Women’s Groups.

By Lena M. Phillips, Pictorial Review, 57th St. at
8th Ave., New York City. $.25.

\Vomen’s groups wishing to raise money will find this
booklet of great help. It contains a very useful list 01
“do’s and don’ts,” hints on committee organization, sev-
enty tried and proven ways of earning money, a guide tc
meals for 100 persons and a bibliography. The money-
rais'ing plans include simple and elaborate events which
can be adapted to almost any group. There are many sug-
gestions on what to sell and how to sell it and over
twenty entertainments to give, including parties, fairs
exhibits, concerts,. bridge parties, dances and shows oi
various kinds.

Games Digest.

Edited by Ely Culbertson, 380 Second Avenue, New
York. $.10 per copy. $1.00 per year.

And now another monthly digest—this time one or
special interest to recreation workers and others concern-
ed with social recreation programs. There are simple
games for the novice and advice for the expert. Ant
there are tricks and stunts when you don’t want games
and solos and solitaire when you are alone. The Janu-
ary issue, for example, contains question and answei
games, card games. suggestions for parlor entertainment
discussion of board games such as chess and checkers
and of problems arising in bridge, pinochle, checkers ant
other games.

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. l-‘INLEY, President

JOHN G. W'INANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. \VILLIAM BUTTER“‘0RTII, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRI'BEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
JOHN H. l’INLEv, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Mil.

AUSTIx E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hicxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON-HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapo'is, 1nd.

MRS. CHARLES I). LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT L.\SSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

J. H. BICCURDY, Springfield, Mass. ‘
One '1‘. MALLERY, Phi'adelpliia, I‘a.

\VALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEA', Augusta, Me.

MRS. Ocnsx L. MILLS, \Yoodbury, i*. Y.

MRS. JAMES \V'. WADSWORTII, Washington, 1). C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. VVARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. \VINANT, Concord, N. H.

