Getting the Spirit of Recreation into the
, Human Relations of Government

THE field of human relations is to a considerable degree an unexplored, unadventured,

unconquered territory. The earth’s surface has been fairly well covered. Human rela-
' tlons on this earth yet remain to be worked out.

I What in government gives abundant life to man? What about business and industry
and labor relatlons from the point of view of life values—current human satisfactions?

What forms of service satisfy mostu—what activities, what recreations are essential to dif-
ferent types of individuals? “

The task is not for those who seek to reduce everything to dry, dusty formulas. The

task is rather warmly human to be lived out, worked out, in the spirit of recreation, of
good clean fun.

Government, education, social work, health work, civic work exist for securing cer-
tain very definite and concrete results, but at the same time human relations and a certain
spirit of living are established and developed that may be more important than the immedi-
ate results in controlling fire loss, preventing crime, reducing cancer, tuberculosis.

What builds the human spirit, what promotes the growth of man as man, not man
primarily as a worker, as a storer up of goods, as a deveIOper of the earth’s surface, but
man as liver, creator, artist, musician, comrade, neighbor, citizen?

The first question to ask about a government from the point of view of the recreation
movement is not—merelyu—does it make the trains run on time, does it keep the streets
clean, does it insist on good building? Rather this and much more,—what is the given gov-
ernment doing to the human Spirit, is it helping men to grow, is it making men of parts,
is it making mellow citizens who live richly?

Those who are interested in recreation, interested in the leisure time of citizens, in-
terested in living itself—are vitally concerned in the spirit which the government and all
community institutions are creating, what they are doing to the men, women, and chil-
dren. Are men made richer personalities, more independent, original, creative, self-re-
liant, thoughtful? Or are the citizens becoming more dependent, submissive, more of one
pattern with less individuality, less sparkle, with fewer points at which they have a lively
interest?

The spirit of the playground, of the recreation center is something which should af-
fect all of life: The recreation emphasis on creativeness, growth, humanness, personal-
ity, long time human satisfactions, happy human relations has a bearing on the form of
government and the system of administration in all community institutions. The measure
of democracy and consideration for human growth and the simple joys of life in all com-
munity institutions are important to the fundamental purpose the recreation leader serves.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

FEBRUARY, I938

 

633

- . - ‘0

Courtesy American Forest:

 

634

 

  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
  

HE CHICAGO Recreation
Commission is an organiz-
ed assumption of local re-
ponsibility to plan and effect
program for the productive
use of the leisure time of its
citizens through the collabo-
rated efforts of public and pri-
rate agencies. First, the Chi-
cago Recreation Commission admits and assumes
local responsibility for a local problem. That is
refreshing in view of the almost America-wide
tendency to relinquish local responsibility and re-
fer everything to the Federal Government. When
the nation was passing through the valley of the
shadow of economic death it was essential that
he Federal Government supplement local action
nd appropriation. Emergency periods call for
emergency policies. But it is. never easy to con-
fine emergency policy to emergency periods. An
extensive intervention of the Federal Government
nto local situations when emergencies are on, how-
ver justified, may cut the nerve of local respon-
sibility well over into a post-emergency period.
In a time of stress when the Federal Government
must operate rescue squads it is easy for cities to
get the habit of becoming chronic mendicants,
asking alms at the gates of government. It is easy
for cities to lose the habit of assuming local re-
sponsibility for local problems and it is even pos-
sible that a state’s racket can be substituted for
state’s rights. As a symbol of a wholesome ten-
dency the bold attack of the Chicago Recreation
Commission on the local problem is significant.
Second, the Chicago Recreation Commission
frankly undertakes a path of social planning for
Chicago. Now, social planning, in my judgment,
is of crucial importance to the American future
but again in my judgment social planning can
hamstring instead of harness the creative forces
f American life unless the planning is evolved 0n
the ground where it is to be executed and unless
it is in terms of units small enough to be really
I am frankly skeptical of the more
mbitious dreams for national planning, because
III honestly believe that nobody knows enough to
‘plan this entire country. The complexity of so
great a nation is limitless and the capacity of its

5
B
0Q
(D
a:
0"
H
(D

By GLENN FRANK, LL.D.

On November I8. I937, the Recrea-
tion Commission of Chicago held its
third annual meeting attended by l500
people. We are presenting extracts
from an address given before the

Conference by Dr. Glenn Franlr.

Citizen Leadership in Today’s Leisure Time

leaders now, as in every gen-
eration, is limited. So unless I
wholly misread the problem it
is planning in the nation rather
than planning of the nation
that America so sorely needs.
As an example of planning in
the nation the Chicago Recrea-
tion Commission is significant.

Third, the Chicago Recreation Commission un-
dertakes to correlate all the public and private
agencies concerned with exercising the use of the
leisure time of its citizens. Here again I think
this Commission symbolizes something significant.
There are two groups of extremists to which I
hope the American people will never give loyalty.
One group is against the government’s doing any-
thing very much beyond preserving order and col-
lecting taxes, provided the taxes aren’t too high.
The other group is for the government’s doing
about everything there is to do. The first group
are unconscious anarchists, although their con-
servative souls would shudder at the label. The
other are unconscious fascists, although their lib-
eral souls would rebel at being so named. The
fact is that we need a properly balanced number
of public and private agencies running neck and
neck in a cooperative competition. It is desirable
to have private agencies in the field of social ser-
vice in a time like this when the world around
there is a decisive shift in the balance between
voluntary social action “and imposed governmental
action. I think the avowed purpose of the Chicago
Recreation Commission to tackle this city’s prob-
lem of leisure time through a correlation of pub-
lic and private agencies is significant.

I want now with the utmost brevity to state
what seem to me some of the more fundamental
aspects of the problems of leisure which call this
Commission into being. The first thing I want to
say is that the ultimately right solution of the
problem of leisure time use in American civiliza-
tion and in our great cities is going to depend
upon the success or failure we have in developing
certain qualities of mind in the leadership of the
community, state, and nation. I want to suggest
that there are three qualities of mind that this
nation-wide problem of leisure time use calls for.

635

636 CITIZEN LEADERSHIP IN TODAY’S LEISURE TIME

Three Qualities of Mind Demanded

First, the right attack on this problem calls for
a mind that can take long views, a mind that can
think in terms of the next generation as well as
in terms of the next election, a mind that con—
siders the unborn part of its constituency even if

the unborn has no vote. It is never easy to achieve
that long view in America because we are essen-
tially a nation of improvisers. We like to hatch
policies on the spot. We tend to think under the
spell of the immediate and to confine our thinking
on fundamental issues to moments of campaign
or crisis. When things are running smoothly we
tend to take the easiest way, and the man among
us who insists on talking about fundamental
policy when social, political and economic thun—
derstorms are not in the sky, is likely to be set
down as an impertinent and impractical meddler
in other people’s business. We play by ear in a
great many fields beside music. This is why in so
many fields of our national life the ground is
cluttered with jerry-built policies thrown out of
short range minds in the midst of time of stress.
I set down first that an intelligent approach to
the community—wide, state-wide, and nation-wide
problem of the use of leisure in this generation
calls for a mind that habitually takes a long view.

Second, this leisure time problem calls for
minds realizing the complexity of this problem.
Again it is very hard in America to get anybody
to admit that any problem isn’t terribly simple.
We are essentially a patent medicine-minded peo—
ple. We have a childlike faith that there must
be a pink pill for pale agriculture or pale labor or
pale business, and that if we could only find that
one little precious pill, Utopia would be the next
station stop. We are quite impatient with anyone
who maintains that none of our public problems
is really simple. This problem of leisure time
calls for minds that know there are no pink pills
that will effect a swift and sure cure for a con-
plex difficulty. So this whole thing is doomed to
sterility if the minds behind it oversimplify it.
I shall try to indicate later what I mean by the
complexity of this problem.

Third, I suggest that this problem calls for a
mind that works for a cooperative leadership of
the community, the state, and the nation, rather
than the competing leaderships in the nation. We
Americans tend to work too much on the “lone
wolf” theory of leadership, with business leader-
ship over in this corner, and labor in that corner

'and ingenuity of the individual primitive man and.

and agriculture in another. This problem calls
for something beyond this medley of competing
leaderships, because, after all, whatever happens]
in any one of these great functional fields 0ft;
American life profoundly affects the whole social. .
and cultural welfare of the American peOple, an
until there is cooperation and coordination be
tween these varied functional leaderships it is im
possible to do more than talk about a really cul ,1
tural attack upon the leisure time problem. With 
out getting into any lengthy discussion, let me sa 5
that for purposes of discussion we may say tha 1
three great leisure areas confront a commissio

such as this: leisure for the child, for youth, an
for the mature.

 
  
  
   
 
 
  

Play for Children

I was reminded by Dr. Rumley of the formu. '
lation of a philosophy and statement of play tha
a very astute-minded student of the problem mad
some years ago. That statement was esssentiall
this: that play is in reality the work of the child
that play does for the child now what the work 0
primitive man did for him, that almost every on
of the games that boys especially play—running, .
leaping, jumping, throwing, clubbing—is more
or less instinctive repetition in the play time o
the modern children of the work activities of th
adult primitive man. Out of the running, out o
the leaping, out of the joining together, primitive}
man learned how to double the capacity, energy '

  
  
   
 
     
  
    
  
 
   
   
  

thus obtain his food, protect himself from th
menace of animals and evolve techniques of sur—
vival for himself. Over the generations, children
of more modern days have instinctively reproduced
in play that which primitive man did in the serious
business of getting food and managing to survive.

Now if that interpretation of the historic evolu-
tion of more or less instinctive play be true, and I
think it is, then the community that denies to the
modern child adequate'facilities for play is doing
to modern children what would have been done to
primitive man if his hands had been tied behind
him and his feet manacled so that he could not'
run and leap and hurl rocks and gang together in
a cooperative attempt to get food, to protect him—.
self and thus to survive. That is in essence the.)
problem of the leisure for children—so to or-
ganize a kind of play life for children that out of
it the skills will be developed, the capacity for'
cooperation developed which will make them func—q,
tion more intelligently and more effectively as inl:

 

   

dividuals and as members of social groups as they
move on into maturity.

Leisure for Youth and Adults

I am going to say nothing about leisure for
youth beyond the fact that with the tendency
known as the prolongation of infancy, with the

with industry taking workers on a little later and
dropping them considerably earlier, that the mar-
gin of time not devoted to active earning work is
larger and larger as the years pass with modern
American youth, and that presents a challenging
problem to a great commission such as this.

The problem I am concerned .to state is the
third aspect of the leisure time use problem, lei—
sure for the mature. I needn’t say to this group
that the idleness of a man who can’t get a job
isn’t leisure. A great recreation commission must
of course face that diflicult problem of how best
to pour some richness of meaning into those idle
hours of men who, through no fault of theirs, are
unable to do a man’s work in the course of day.
You know that problem. I merely say that the
idleness of unemployment is not leisure and I am
suggesting that this recreation commission, when
it fully tackles the problem of the use of leisure
.time to the best advan-
tage of the individual and

lengthening of the years allowed to education,

Out of the play life of children skills are devel-

CITIZEN LEADERSHIP IN TODAY’S LEISURE TIME 637

American civilization, must concern itself not only
with doing the best it can for involuntary idleness
and must not only simply stand still and say, “If
and when the other forces of civilization shear
out a little margin of leisure, then as a recreation
commission we will do the best we can to plan an
intelligent program for them.” Beyond that a
great recreation commission ought to be concern-
ed with the question of how we are going to pro-
duce the amount of leisure and kind of leisure a
really great and glowing civilization such as
America is, should have, and it is on that question
of organizing to produce leisure as well as or-
ganizing to serve leisure hours that I want to
speak for a few minutes.

‘

Leisure Defined

Leisure in this power age is that margin of time
which men on a decent standard of living and
with a decent sense of security have free for the
pursuit of values that lie beyond economics. Now
I give you my own judgment. I think that we of
this generation and our children can achieve this
sort of leisure in but one way, and that is by the
full and unhampered utilization of our modern
economics, of science, technology, and power pro-
duction. we cannot achieve this productive sort
of leisure by curbing these
giant forces of social

oped and the capacity for cooperation is fostered

 

Courtesy Childhood Education

638 CITIZEN LEADERSHIP IN TODAY’S LEISURE TIME

modernism, and I take it to be essential to a really
productive movement for the intelligent use of a
nation’s leisure time that the directing and guid-
ing forces of such a movement shall have a clear
conception of the instruments with which and
through which alone as a pe0ple we can achieve
this leisure for ourselves and our children in this

power and machine age.

It is very easy for some Americans to assume
that we are tied irrevocably to this machine age;
that it is an absorbing sort of economy that is
bound to suck all the juices of meaning out of
men and therefore the best we can do is to say
that we are tied to it and we are doomed as busy,
non-cultural people. That, of course, no intelli—
gent man will admit. I am convinced that our
only hope of producing adequate leisure—leisure
so coupled with adequate living standards and a
sense of economic and social security—is by the
full and unhampered use of this machine economy.
Frankly, at the moment we are listening too much
to councils of despair regarding these great hordes
of social modernism to which I have referred.
If you won’t misunderstand it, frankly, I can’t
understand the inconsistency that we Americans
sometimes display. We say, and I know we are
sincere when we say it, that our whole purpose is
to achieve the abundant life within the reach of
the last living American. Then at the very first
appearance of actual abundance we start to whim-
per and say unless we can devise ways and means
of checking this large production we are ruined.
We insist, and rightly, that perhaps a third of this
great population is inadequately fed, clothed and
housed. Then the minute we learn that we are
likely to raise somewhere between sixteen and
eighteen million bales of cotton this year with
which we might do something about the ill-clad
third, we begin to cry out for controls and sub—
sidies.

I think if we are going to do anything about
producing adequate leisure and turn it to sound
cultural and spiritual advantage, that we are going
to have to realize that the blunt truth is that ex—
cept as emergency measures for meeting emer-
gencies we haven’t been intelligent enough to
avoid, there can be neither rhyme nor reason in
the fantastic notion that either in American in-
dustry or agriculture we can bring the abundant
life, leisure and cultural opportunity to the

American millions by putting our productive ca- .

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
      

pacity in chains, by producing less and by charg-
ing more.

What do we mean when we Americans talk
about the abundant life and productive leisure?
I take it we mean a better fed, better clothed and
better housed people, with bodies and minds and
spirits so emancipated from unduly low livin
standards that they are free for the pursuit 0
these values that lie beyond economic values. I
I am right in assuming that the leisure we want i
not the mere idleness, but must be the free hour
of men ‘with decent living standards and economi
and social security, then there is an economic has
to that economic life, and we shall never have i
by pursuing the will—of—the-wisp policy of fewe1
goods at higher prices. We shall some day have t
become intelligent enough to realize that thi
problem of leisure, if it is to Hower into a civilize
culture for our people, must sink its roots in th
elementary economic fact that the abundant life
must proceed from a nation-wide policy of more
goods at lower prices and not fewer goods at
higher prices.

!

“we need to find a wider variety of forms of
group and individual activity if we are to meet
the requirements of any large proportion of the
total population.

“We need to understand the place of leader—
ship in adult activity and to discover ways for
development and training of leadership.

“We need to interpret unit costs of recrea-
tional services.

“We need to study how the form of every ac-
tivity offered may become an educational process
in itself. This does not mean control or regimen—
tation; it means the contagious exercise of skill,
the helpful guidance and friendly service of com-
petent leaders. ' '

“Most cities need more community centers
which will increase opportunities for study, dis- I
cussion and participation in public affairs.

“Most cities need more lighted facilities for.
night activities such as tennis, softball, croquet '
and the like.

“Most cities need development of additional
camping facilities for boys and girls from under- , I‘
privileged areas.

“More cities need a city-wide recreation coun-.l
cil or commission to study the needs and trends of
recreation.”—-—G. W. Danielson, Superintendent of, ,

it

Recreation, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

l
u

l

l

  
    
      
    

TTEMPTS have been
made in various arti-
cles to provide ap-
roximate estimates of the
otal expenditures of the
American people on recre-
tion and amusement. An
ngregate figure of some
$6,000,000,000 was pre-
sented as an annual aver-
age for the past several
years, constituting almost
‘ 12 per cent of the national
income for the year 1934,
and current gains hold out
the prospect that in the
' near future this total may
well approach the $10,000,000,000 annual total
estimated by former President Hoover’s Commit-
tee on Social Trends for the period 1928-30.

Recreational and vacation travel, dominated by
. leasure uses of the automobile, account for by
ar the greater part of this immense sum, while
rge amounts are spent annually by the American
eople on sports, but a further classification of
recreational expenditures is represented by such
forms of commercial entertainment as motion
' ictures, the radio, and innumerable places of pub-
“ ic amusement including billiard parlors, bowling
'plleys, horse and dog race tracks, sports and ath-
letic fields, dance halls, the legitimate stage, amuse-
ment parks, bands and orchestras, museums,
twimming pools and bathing beaches.

, A recent survey of the Census of Business has
placed the aggrega'te receipts, for 1935, of all
‘places of commercial amusement, including mo-
tion picture theaters, at $699,051,000, while, in this
$ame year, retail sales of radios amounted to
. $230,890,000. Grouping together these expendi-
. tures on commercial entertainment, a sum ap-
g proximating $1,000,000,000 is obtained, repre—
' senting about 16 per cent of our total annual bill
for recreation.

This sum, indeed, ranks high among those sec—
ondary expenditures whose progressive increase
I in recent years, as discussed in the May issue of
‘ The Index, provide such graphic proof of our re-

 

he Amusement lndustry

Vacation travel, the auto-
mobile. amusement parks.
motion picture theaters.
dance hallsI billiard parlors
and bowling alleysI sports
and the radio contribute
to the stupendous sum of
approximately $6.000.000.-
000 spent every year for
recreation and amusement

surgent standard of living. While it does not
amount to as much as our total expenditures on
tobacco products, it far exceeded, in 1935, total
value of manufacturers’ sales of alcoholic bever-
ages, was about four times the total value of con-
fectionery manufacturers, almost nine times that
of manufacturers of perfumes and cosmetics, and
nearly twenty times that of toys, games and play—
ground equipment.

Growth of Commercial Amusements

The American people have not always spent
such a considerable part of their income on, amuse-
ment or entertainment and it was not until the
advent of the motion picture and the radio that
the amusement industry as a whole played a role
in our economic life analogous to that which it
holds today through the total of its receipts and
the employment it directly or indirectly provides.
For while the motion pictures may be held respon-
sible for the decline in importance of other forms
of entertainment, notably the stock companies and
vaudeville shows which formerly toured through-
out the country, they never reached an audience,
provided the employment, or obtained the revenue
which motion pictures and the radio command
today.

Amusement places are primarily a product of
the increasing urbanization and industrialization
of the country. A century ago they were few and
far between. A struggling theater, largely con-

639

640 THE AMUSEMENT'INDUSTRY

fined to a few large cities, appealed to a very
limited audience; there were a few commercial
museums of curiosities, and occasional traveling
shows, equestrian circuses, and exhibitions of
freaks and ct1riosities toured the country. There
was nothing remotely comparable to the radio.

The amusement field was first exploited on any
considerable scale in this country by P. T. Bar-
num. At a time when the theaters were largely
empty he made his American Museum in New
York a p0pular source of public entertainment,
and touring the country with some of the special
attractions he brought to this institution, he first
made a real business of amusing the American
people.

His lead gave a new impetus to the movement
to provide the growing mass of urban dwellers
with popular entertainment, and during the latter
part of the nineteenth century the gradual de—
velopment of the circus, of vaudeville shows, and
of itinerant theatrical stock companies brought
this phase of the amusement industry into being.
Widespread as these sources of entertainment be—
came, however, the advent of moving pictures
foreshadowed development on a scale previously
impossible. ,

These were first shown in vaudeville houses,
but in 1905 the first motion picture theater was
established, exhibiting “The Great Train Rob—
bery” for five cents admission. Following the suc-
cess of this experiment, “nickelodeons” multiplied
rapidly——-by 1907 there were some 5,000 of them
and the moving picture public was increasing by
leaps and bounds.

Feature pictures, the development of stars,
more elaborate production and finally sound pic-
tures served to extend the popularity of this new
form of entertainment until it took rank among
the country’s leading industries. In 1931, invested
capital was estimated at $2,ooo,ooo,ooo, and
throughout the country some 14,500 theaters with
a total seating capacity of more than 12,000,000
were entertaining an estimated weekly audience
of from 80,000,000 to 100,000,000 persons, ac-
cording to the Motion Picture Almanac.

The radio neither replaced nor supplemented a
predecessor. The idea of bringing popular enter—
tainment directly into the ordinary home in the
form of dance music, concerts, story—telling, run-
ning accounts of sporting events, the spoken
drama, and associating with it such informative
or educational features as public speeches, news
summaries and lectures, is something entirely new.

Just how new is easily forgotten in view of the
universality of the radio today, but the first pro—
fessional public broadcast was given as recently as
1920. The growth of the radio industry and
parallel development of commercial broadcasting
on a national scale have since then been phenome—
nal, bringing to the American people a readil
available and comparatively inexpensive form 0
entertainment which has been of tremendous socia
significance. ‘.

The rapid expansion of radio resulted from tre
mendous popular-enthusiasm as new sources 0
broadcast entertainment were developed and it
value along informational and educational line
became more and more widely appreciated. A
first, the services of artists, musicians and profes
sional talent were obtained without charge, but a
broadcasting developed, the expense involved an
the need to pay entertainers led to the introductio
of programs sponsored and paid for by advertis-
ers who sought in the radio an effective means of
building up public goodwill. The organization of
national broadcasting services quickly followed,
and radio, as we know it today, became an estab—
lished feature of our national life.

   
   
  
  
    
    
  
 
  

Its rate of growth may, perhaps, be best illus-
trated by the expansion of radio sales. Within
six years of the first professional broadcast, or by
1926, they had risen to 1,750,000 units with .
retail value of $200,000,000; three years later theya" :.
had almost tripled to a total of 4,438,000 units|"
valued at $592,068,000. Radio had become one of”
the country’s outstanding industries. ) '

    
  
    
    
  
   

Commercial exploitation of sports has a longer
history than the movies or radio, but is compara—
tively new in the scale known today. While the
establishment of billiard parlors and bowling alleys
followed a gradual course as the population of
cities grew and horse races have always been a
popular feature of this country’s recreational life,
other organized Sports for which admissions are
charged date from the latter half of the nineteenth
century. Their development may be traced in the.
increasing popularity of professional baseball as a .‘
spectator sport, in the interest aroused in prize
fighting as it was somewhat raised from the low
standards which'originally prevailed in the days
of bare knuckle fighting, and, more recently, int
the development of professional hockey, profes-1
sional basketball, professional football, and many ,.
other sp0rting contests which are staged for thetf’
entertainment of the growing army of sports en--“

thusiasts who may or may not play the games\‘
(5.

 

I
l
' I

THE AMUSEMENT INDUSTRY ‘ 641

themselves but are willing to pay for the privilege
of watching them.

Expenditures on these spectator sports naturally
enough do not reach totals comparable to the hun-
dreds of millions the American people are cur-
rently expending on moving pictures and the
radio, but their popularity is indicated in the gates
for certain outstanding events. Over $1,000,000
has been received in admissions for a baseball
world series; in the pre-depression period of prize
tight popularity, the gate at a world championship
bout was more than $2,500,000.

Other commercial amusements are the fairs,

. carnivals, amusement parks and popular enter-

tainments which are held every summer through-
out the country.

Motion Pictures and Radio

The final result of this gradual development of
commercial entertainment, so
greatly accelerated by the p0pu-
larity of motion pictures and the
radio, with their universal appeal
and reasonable expense, has been
the creation of what may be
termed the modern amusement
industry with total admission re—

l ceipts and sales amounting, in
1935, as previously noted, to al—
most $1,000,000,000. In all, some
37,677 places'pf commercial
amusement were reported in the

l survey of the Census of Business

’ covering the year 1935, providing employment for

. 31,215 active proprietors and an average of 157,789

l employes, with an annual payroll of $159,641,000.

l. The radio and phonograph industry, numbering

, 195 establishments, provided work for an average

;I of 44,792 wage earners receiving $42,910,000.

 Among the amusement places, motion picture
theaters, including' those also showing vaudeville,

i numbered 12,024, or about one-third the total, but
they accounted for $508,196,000, or approximately
70 per cent of the aggregate receipts. This com-
pares with a total throughout the country of only
1 I 58 other theaters, including legitimate stage and
opera, 'which took in $19,630,000 in receipts, or
less than 4 per cent of the total for the motion
' picture theaters.

Of the former establishments, some 26.8 per
cent were located in cities of 100,000 and this
group accounted for 55.6 per cent of the total re-
ceipts of all motion picture theaters. Moreover,

  

NIOVIES

while 53 per cent of such theaters were in towns
of less than 10,000, they reported only 19 per cent
of total receipts. Smaller seating capacity as well
as lower admissions accounts for this allotment of
motion picture receipts, while in rural districts,
the development of good roads and increasing use
of the automobile have more and more caused the

farm population to visit the nearest city for its
entertainment.

On the production side, the moving picture in—
dustry has expanded, as the present number of
motion picture theaters and their aggregate re-
ceipts would indicate, to a new high level of ac-
tivity. The total cost of production, in 1935, was
$188,470,000. This constituted a rise of 58 per
cent over comparable figures for 1933, and was
slightly higher than the previous peak of

$184,102,000-in 1929.

Expenditures on radio entertainment, as esti-
mated by the previously noted
figure of $230,890,000 for the re-
tail sales in 1935, are approxi-
mately half the amount spent by
the public on moving pictures
even with due allowance for the

' costs of broadcasting as repre-
sented by the fees paid by adver-
tisers. While this total was less
than 40 per cent that recorded
for 1929, a sizeable increase was
shown in 1936 when retail sales
of radios reached $315,000,000.
Moreover, on a unit basis, a new

record was established last year, sales totalling an

approximate $7,000,000 in comparison with $4,438,-

000 in 1929. It is currently estimated that there

are some 33,000,000 radios in the homes, cars and

meeting places of the nation.

   

Reports of the radio industry, with which is
allied .the manufacture of phonographs, place the
total value of production, in 1935, at $2oo,973,ooo,
a gain of approximately 68 per cent since 1933.

General Places of Amusement

Next in importance to the motion picture thea-
ters in the groups of amusement places classified
in the Census of Business, but with receipts far
below those of either the motion picture or radio
industry, are billiard and pool parlors, and bowl-
ing alleys. While they number, throughout the
United States, 12,412, or slightly more than the
total of motion ‘picture theaters, average annual

642 THE AMUSEMENT INDUSTRY

receipts of only $3,486 bring their 1935' aggregate
income to only $43,271,000.

An even greater proportion of these establish-
ments are located in cities of more than 100,000
than in the case of motion picture theaters, nearly
one-third of the total, accounting for 44 per cent
of the receipts, being found in such communities,
but at the same time, places with less than 10,000
inhabitants have billiard parlors and bowling
alleys reporting 31 per cent of total receipts. On
a geographical basis, they are widely scattered
throughout the country, although there are more
located in New York than in all New England,
and also nearly as many as in the entire group of
South Atlantic States.

As pointed out in the July, 1936, issue of. The
I ndex, estimates place the number of devotees of
billiards and bowlingat approximately 8,000,000
for each of these games, or more than those of
any other organized form of sport. They are not
only among the longest established sources of rec—
reation in this country, both, billiards and bowling
being well known in Colonial days, but among the
most popular.

Horse and dog race tracks follow billiard par-
lors and bowling alleys on the basis of income.
While the Census of Business reports only 64
throughout the country, California and Florida
leading with nine and eight respectively, average
receipts per establishment of $507,281, bring the
annual total for the, group up to $32,466,000 or
almost 5 per cent of the aggregate for all amuse—
ment places. Total purses and stakes on all Ameri-
can horse race tracks in this same year amounted
to $12,792,000, while it has been further esti—
mated that close upon $2,ooo,ooo,ooo was wagered
on the outcome of horse races.

A group of 426 baseball and football clubs,
sports and athletic fields, and sports promoters are
next in order, with total receipts aggregating
$25,273,000. Their average employment for the
year was 5,410 and the annual payroll $9,699,000.
In this classification are included all professional
and semi-professional athletic
clubs, and in the case of base-
ball and football clubs, revenue
from the sale of players’ con-
tracts is incorporated with gen-
eral revenue.

The legitimate stage and opera,
with receipts of, $19,630,000,
follow these clubs, and are in
turn succeeded by dance halls,

These factsI taken from an article
appearing in the September issue of
"The Index." testify to the enormous
growth of the commercial recreation
movement as well as to the remarka-
ble development of certain forms of
entertainment such as the radio and
the motion picture. The facts and
figures given present a challenge to
the public recreation movement.

       
 
    
  
     
   
  
 
    
 

l'!'
l

studios and academies,with receipts of $14,8 3 1,000; l
amusement parks with receipts of $8,982,000; i
bands and orchestras with receipts of $4,611,000,
and amusement devices—carousels, ferris wheels,
games of chance usually associated with fairs,
circuses or amusement parks—with receipts of
$4,360,000 ,

Among other establishments surveyed were ‘
bathing beaches, boat and canoe rental services, ,
skating rinks, swimming pools, riding academies, '
tennis courts, carnivals, exhibits and expositions
and rodeos. As stressed by the Census of Busi-
ness report, no such survey can hope to be com- 
plete. Establishments proffering other services or ‘,
goods in addition to amusements were excluded ' _
unless more than half their receipts came fro - 5:;
paid admissions or fees, and in many instances no - 
data could be obtained because of the seasonal
character of the amusement. The aggregate re-
ceipts of these miscellaneous places of amusement,
however, amounted, in 1935, to $34,392,000.

The geographic distribution of receipts of all
places of amusements further emphasizes the con-
centration in large cities. New York City alone 4
accounts for $109,458,000, or somewhat more 5
than 15 per cent of the nation-wide total. This is l
almost twice the total for all New England States, 
or of that of the entire group of South Atlantic j
States; it is more than five times that of the 3
mountain states. Chicago accounts for the next 7"
largest share of receipts, $35,507,000; Philadel-
phia for $10,739,000; L05 Angeles for $16,242,000, '
and Detroit for $11,166,000. These five leading :
centers of amusement or entertainment thus ac-
count for $189,112,000, or some 27 per cent of
the national total.

‘5



Conclusions 1

‘

These statistics represent at best an approxima-
tion of what is annually spent on commercial. ‘
amusements in the United States and would un-
questionably be greatly expanded if more com-
plete data were obtainable, and admissions for
amateur spectator sports, such
as college football and- other
general entertainments were
included in the aggregate total. I
While it does not appear that ,
the total amusement bill is as ‘
high as it was in 1929, the in- ;
crease noted in comparative"
statistics for, 1933 and 1935;.

( Continued on page 676) 

,.
ll

 

i

Model Playgrounds tor Cleveland

By LEYTON E. CARTER and EDWARD A. LEVY

HE CLEVELAND Founda-
Ttion, a community trust

for charitable and edu-
cational purposes, has re-
cently constructed for the
city of Cleveland two model
playgrounds. In so doing
the Foundation has had in
mind the stimulation of
public interest and the dem-
onstration of what model
requirements involve for
meeting community needs
in an up—to—date fashion. It is believed that popu-
lar appreciation of what model standards involve
can best be developed by concrete example. “See-
ing is believing.”

In the not distant past the city of Cleveland
stood well down the list of cities in municipal pro-
vision of recreation facilities and recreation pro-
gram. This was due to several causes which can-
not be elaborated here: the lack of any well—con-
sidered, long range policy of providing physical
facilities; ineffectual administration of existing
facilities; stereotyped and inadequate program of
activities; lack of leadership and an uninformed
and indifferent public. Meanwhile the effects of
the depression further impoverished this already
undernourished function of government. As a
result, during the period when wholesome, absorb-
ing, and constructive recreational opportunities
were most bitterly needed by the children and
youth of the city, particularly by the less fortu-
nate, public efforts were at a low ebb in quantity
and quality.

The First Step—A Study

Late in 1935 the Foundation, through its di-
rector, Leyton E. Carter, assisted by Edward A.
Levy of the Foundation staff, undertook a study
of public recreation in Cleveland. This study was
made public in the early summer of 1936. Previ-
ously, however, many of its findings were made
available to the city’s new administration under
Mayor Harold H. Burton—an administration
which had early given evidence of intelligent inter-

Mr. Carter is director of the Cleve-
land Foundation and chairman of the
Mayor's Board on Playgrounds and
Recreation. Mr. Levy is assistant at
the Cleveland Foundation and secre-
‘tary of the Mayor's Advisory Board

on Playgrounds and Recreation. The
story of careful planning they pre-
sent. and the step by step proced-
ure outlined will be helpful to all

groups planning playground programs.

 

est in problems of recrea-
tion and of willingness to
tackle constructively the
problems which had ac-
cumulated in this field.

The study report revealed
in a systematic way the
striking deficiencies in fa-
cilities, program and per-
sonnel in almost every ma-
jor phase of public recrea-
tion which the city faced.
But more than this it sought
to make concrete and practical recommendations
for bettering the situation. The whole situation
was conditioned by acute financial problems which
confronted the city, which did not preclude, how-
ever, resourceful and intelligent action upon the
part of city officials.

An Advisory Board Appointed

An early step taken by the city administration
was the appointment of a Mayor’s Advisory Board
on Playgrounds and Recreation made up of in-
formed public citizens—social agency executives,
school teachers, business and professional men,
representatives of women’s civic organizations and
others. The services of the chairman and secre—
tary of the Board were made available by the
Foundation -as well as a modest grant of money
for incidental expenses.

During the first year of the administration this
group applied itself diligently to the problems re-
vealed by the Foundation’s study and the general
situation with which the city was confronted.
Fortunately there was a “meeting of minds,” and
the best cooperation existed between the Board
and the city administration as well as increasingly
cordial relations with the City Council.

Only bare mention can be made here of the
Board’s activities. Major attention was given to
(I) improvement of personnel through restora-
tion of the merit system in the administrative ser-

'vice, (2) planning of programs of reconditioning

of play areas and equipment chiefly through WPA
and N YA assistance, (3) provision of “emer-

643

644 MODEL PLAYGROUNDS FOR CLEVELAND ‘.

gency” playgrounds to be manned largely by NYA
assistance, (4) building the case for more ade-
quate appropriations for the recreation services
and advocacy of such before council committees,
and (5) securing some restoration of salary and
wage rates for staff positions.

Largely as a result of distinct progress along all
these lines the Foundation early in 1937 gave ser-
ious consideration to the provision for the city of
one or more model playgrounds as demonstration
projects. Despite the progress which the city ad—
ministration had made in the whole recreation
Held, particularly through the persistent efforts of
the director of parks, Hugo Varga, and J. Noble
Richards, recreation commissioner, and their as-
sociates, little financial provision could be made
for improved facilities of a model character.

Securing Sites for Playgrounds

Study was given to several possible sites and
conditions of need. While it is true that city-
owned playground sites total less than a score, few
of which are of any considerable size, it was also
true that the Foundation
did not have large sums
available for expenditure.
At length a site of
very modest size
was selected,a sm'all .
unused spot in the
rear of a city bath-
house._ This site is
in the so-called
“Tremont Area” r
within the most con-
gested district of
the city with a white
population of mix-
ed foreign extrac-
tion. It is in the
lower, if not about
the lowest, econom-
ic brackets and has
a high ratio of child
and youth popula-
tion. Likewise, it is
an area which in the
past has shown, ac-
cording 'to official
records, a high in-
dex of crime and
juvenile delin-
quency. All in all

A section of the handball court at the Lin-
coln Bath PlaygroundI the face of which is a
neighboring garage wall treated with gunnite

 

it seemed a good place in which to start. '3
Upon selection of the site the Foundation in-
vited W.‘ C. Batchelor of Ohio State University .
to develop playground plans for the site. This was 
done in consultation with the city’s park and rec- ‘
reation staff. In general Mr. Batchelor’s recom— j
mendations were adhered to in construction. How- i
ever, a more permanent job was done than had i
been contemplated in the original plan. Work wa i
begun shortly before the first of June and com- .
pleted approximately six weeks later. The work ‘
Was done by a private contractor engaged by the '
Foundation and under supervision of the city’s I

park department engineers.

Layout and Facilities

In planning and constructing the playground,
known as Lincoln Bath Playground, three prin-
ciples were borne in mind. First, all facilities
should be of a permanent type of construction.
Second, activities appropriate to the needs and
wishes of the neighborhood should be provided.
And third, facilities should be developed which
would insure maximum
use of all parts of the play-
ground and accommodate
as large a number
of people as possi-
ble at all times.

A noteworthy ,
feature of the play- '
ground is the num- 
ber of facilities
which have been '
constructed of con-
crete. The major
portion of the play-
ground area is cov- '
ered with a concrete
slab 10,800 square '
feet in size. Upon
it are provided two
regulation basket-
ball courts, with a
volley ball court
marked out inside
each, two paddle
tennis courts, two l
shuffleboard ,areas '
and two handball “I
courts. The perma- if“
nent equipment re-j'

| .

quired for these ac-L\ .
a“

ll

LI.

   
  

tivities, such
as basketball
backstops and .
net poles, is
h t t e d i n t o
sleeves which
are embedded
in the con-
c r e t e. T h i 5
makes possible
removal of all
e q u i p m e n t
readily, and,
by fitting caps
0 V e r t h e
sleeves, en-
ables use of
the slab for
dancing, skat-
in g, d r a m a
- and other ac-
tivities.
Because of
the sandy na-
ture of the

soil it was not found necessary to lay a foundation
of Cinders under the concrete surface. The slab
itself is four inches thick around the edges and
at the expansion joints. Here curbing fifteen
inches wide and flush with the surface extends

ture mesh is provided throughout and steel rein—
forcing bars are extended from the curbing into
the slab itself at intervals of ten inches. These
bars are approximately a yard in length. Three
expansion joints are provided, one running the
length of the slab and the other two the width.
Boundary lines for the various activities are paint—
ed on the playing surface with cement paint. It
was found that with two coats of this paint the
lines remain visible, despite intensive use of the
facilities, for approximately six months. It is rec—
ognized that the most effective method of laying
out the playing courts is the process whereby
# strips of concrete—colored with a pigment—are
l embedded in the playing surface. The cost of this
i type of construction over the large area proved
ll prohibitive. ' \

 

t

‘ I
. Five concrete ping pong tables were prowded.

Each table, including the five legs and playing
surface, was constructed in one piece. Permanency
in construction is believed assured through liberal
' use of temperature mesh and steel reinforcing

into the ground one and one-half feet. Tempera- ‘

MODEL PLAYGROUNDS FOR CLEVELAND 045

 

Permanent equipment' such as basketball
backstops and net poles, is titted into
sleeves which are embedded in concrete

bars. In addition, the table legs were extended
approximately two feet below the ground level. A
red pigment was added to the cement used in con-
struction of these tables to reduce the glare of the
sun upon the surface. Permanent boundary mark—
ings Were obtained by inserting strips of dark col-
ored concrete into the playing surface.

Three horseshoe courts have also been provid-
ed. The sides of the boxes and the back are built
of concrete. A railroad tie has been placed at the
front. These boxes were made permanent by ex-
tending them approximately twenty inches below
the surface of the ground and by the use of steel
reinforcing bars.

A unique feature of the playground, it is be-
lieved, is the handball court. F ortunately there is
located directly adjacent to the playground and
within six inches of the property line the back
wall of a garage. Permission was obtained to use
this garage wall as the face of the handball court.
A substance known as gunnite—a thin grout ce—
ment—was employed in the surfacing of this wall.

646 MODEL PLAYGROUNDS FOR CLEVELAND '

The preparation was applied by a pressure gun to r

a thickness of approximately three inches. Angle
irons were riveted to the wall and wire netting
stretched across the top and down the sides to
catch stray balls. The gunnite composition was
used first because it rarely develops cracks and
second because it clings to the wall. Playing lines
were painted into the gunnite surface with cement

paint.

A drinking fountain built entirely of concrete
and several benches constructed of wood and con,-
crete were donated to the Lincoln development by
the National Youth Administration. Both the
fountain and the benches were manufactured
through an NYA project conducted in c00pera-
tion with the Municipal Division of Recreation.

The portion of the playground not covered by
the concrete playing surface is surfaced with a
preparation known as granulated popcorn slag.
This slag composition was used principally be-
cause it packs down readily and, after being trod
upon and frequently watered for a few weeks, be-
comes solid under foot. After a short time little
care need be exercised in the maintaining of this
surface. It is relatively dustless and needs only to
be wetted down occasionally and raked over now
and then.

One of the notable features of the playground
is its availability for' night use. The entire play-
ground is fiood lighted according to specifications
furnished by a leading electrical equipment manu-
facturer. The lighting layout consists of six
thirty-five foot poles and fourteen redectors each
housing a 1500 watt bulb. The lighting is so ade-
quate and so evenly distributed over the area that
it is possible to read a newspaper without difficulty
at any point 0n the playground.

The playground is surrounded with ten foot
fencing. No gates are provided but an opening is
situated at one corner of the playground area. It
is believed advisable to permit access to the
grounds at all times rather than to lock it up and
run the risk of having the fence cut away or torn
down.

Credit is due officials of the city of Cleveland
for the line cooperation which they gave to the
undertaking at all times. In addition, the Division
of Recreation donated several items of equipment
and permitted its crew of maintenance and repair
men to help out on various details. The municipal

light plant was reSponsible for erecting the light~ .

ing equipment.

  

The Playground in Action

Activities at the playground are conducted by‘q’
the city’s Division of Recreation. The normal ,
playground staff is composed of a director and
three assistants, each working approximately
seven hours a day, five days a week. When the
attendance shrank considerably during cold weath-
er the" staff was reduced accordingly. It is ex-
pected that the number of participants will in-
crease with the coming of spring and that conse- ,
quently the present staff will be augmented. It
was found that the largest crowds attend in the
evenings and therefore more staff assistance was
made available after 6 P. M. Selection of play-
ground personnel at Lincoln was based upon sev-
eral factors—eXperience in directing playground Y
activities, knowledge of the psychology of work-
ing with neighborhood groups, and ability to in-
terest children in the playground and maintain
community interest.

During the summer months activities at the
playground were conducted from ten in the morn—
ing to ten at night. After school opened in the
fall the schedule provided supervision from 3 P.M.
until IO P. M. It is expected that the seven hour
schedule will be adhered to as weather permits
until the close of school in June. 4

Attendance at the playground has exceeded all
expectations. In the twenty-one weeks’ period
from July 9th to December 3rd a total attendance
of approximately 25,000 has been recorded, or a
weekly average of 1,175. The bulk of the attend-
ance is made up of boys and young men. Evening
attendance has been particularly striking. Often
on a warm night as many as 400 have crowded
into the area to participate as their turn came in
the various activities. Needless to say, every fa-
cility is taxed to the limit under such circum—
stances. Any doubts as to the popularity of the
facilities and program conducted are dispelled
once one has observed such community use of the
playground.

 
   

I I

In the deve10pment of the playground, known
as the Lincoln Bath Playground, the Foundation .
expended approximately $3,700—not a large sum, l
it would seem, for the facilities provided and the t!
results being obtained.

 

1""

A Second Playground Undertaken

Shortly after the first of August the Founda- 
tion Committee appropriated funds for the de- 1"
veloprnent of another model playground. This sec- 

(l.
M

   

ond demonstration undertaking was decided upon
partly as a result of the immediately successful
reception met with at Lincoln Bath Playground
and partially because of the distinct need for more
adequate playground facilities among the districts
populated by the colored people.

Careful study was made of the available sites
in the districts of the city inhabited by colored
people. Since the Foundation was not in a posi-
tion to donate lands for recreational purposes, it
was necessary to select a site already owned by
the city. The Portland-Outhwaite location at East
46th Street and Outhwaite Avenue was finally
selected because of its adequate size, the adjoining
municipal recreation center and outdoor swimming
pool, the congested population particularly of
children and youth, and the great need for modern
playground facilities in the neighborhood. A new
government housing project surrounds the play-
ground and three public schools are near by. Con-
struction work began September first and the city
formally dedicated the playground October 29th.

The area. developed is approximately an acre in
size. Mr. W._C. Batchelor prepared plans in co-
operation with city officials for the development
of the site as in the case of the earlier undertak-
ing. Guiding principles in the building of Port-
land-Outhwaite were permanency of improve-
ments undertaken, popularity of facilities provid-
ed, and maximum use of the area developed. Con-
sequently, facilities provided at this playground
area are, to a considerable extent, identical to
those at Lincoln Bath Playground.

Instead of one large slab marked out for a num-
ber of activities, two smaller ones were construct-
ed at Portland-Outhwaite. One concrete area of
6200 square feet is devoted to basketball, one
court being marked out for girls’ rules and the
other for boys. The smaller slab is lined for two
paddle tennis courts. The basketball courts may
be used alternatively for volley ball. Other facili-
ties include four ping pong tables and a like num-
ber of horseshoe courts. (These were constructed
upon the same specifications used at Lincoln Bath
Playground.) Two combination badminton and
deck tennis courts have been provided. The de-
velopment also includes two regulation clay tennis
courts which are being utilized during the winter
season for ice skating. These courts were previ-
ously there.

Granulated popcorn slag has been used for the
surfacing of the playground outside the concrete
areas. A three inch application of this prepara-

MODEL PLAYGROUNDS FOR CLEVELAND 647

tion seems to be adequate. The entire playground
area is enclosed with a six foot Cyclone fence ex-
cept for four foot high fencing upon an inner
boundary. Two openings, but no gates, are pro-

vided. It did not appear‘ wise to try to keep the p

grounds locked when not in use.

Adequate landscaping and planting were pro-
vided with the aid of the city and a WPA project.
A planting bed of five feet was extended along the
inside of the fence on .all four sides of the play-

' ground area. California maples, Rose of Sharon

and privet hedges were included in the program.
This will greatly enhance the appearance of the
area and provide shade as time goes on.

An outstanding feature of the Portland-Outh-
waite development is the flood lighting equipment.
As in the case of Lincoln Playground, the entire

- playground area is equipped with Hood lights ac-

cording to model specifications set up by a lead-
ing electrical equipment manufacturer. The light-
ing equipment includes eleven 45 foot poles and
twenty-five refiectors- each housing a I 500 watt
bulb. Better than twelve foot candles of. light are
produced over the entire area. Two independent
circuits are provided, a separate wiring arrange-
ment for the tennis courts and another for the re-
mainder of the playground. The city light plant
installed the lighting equipment.

The program of Portland-Outhwaite Play-
ground is directed by the Municipal Division of
Recreation. Hours of supervised activity, quali-
fications of the playground personnel, and activity
schedules at Portland-Outhwaite are patterned
closely after present operating arrangements at
Lincoln Bath Playground.

Resulting Values

The Portland-Outhwaite Playground has not
been in operation long enough to determine the
extent of its usefulness and community partici-
pation. The immediate acceptance has not been
so great as in the case of the other deveIOpment,
but organized activities were not gotten underway
until early winter. There is no reason to doubt,
however, that under good management it will de-
velop into a splendid neighborhood asset. The
Foundation expended approximately $4,000 upon
this project. To this the city added the shrubbery,
considerable equipment and materials as well as
supervisory services during construction. Except
for erection of the lighting equipment the work

( Continued on bage 677)

Fair Play, in Football and So On

BOUT THIS TIME, 'two or
A three colleges in which for
one reason or another
I have special personal interest
are going up against one an-
other, and as well against other
institutions of the so—called .
“higher” education, in respect of that quasi-
gladiatorial conflict of brawn and sinew, tonnage,
brains and coordination, known as football. Nat-
urally in such matters one has bias of interest and
hope alias expectation that the “home team” will
acquit itself gloriously, even if, despite its damn-
edest and the will-to—believe persisting till the last
whistle blows, it cannot win. A year or two ago,
in a spirit of home-team fervor, I expressed to One
of the leading football enthusiasts of one of “my”
colleges whose eleven thus far that fall had sus-
tained an unbroken record of victories my wishful
confidence in its crowning that record fitly in the
forthcoming final game of the season.

“Alas, Ifear not,” he replied, “though I should
not admit it publicly.”

. “But why the sudden pessimism? We have
licked everybody thus far hands down. It’s only
another game.”

“Not so this time. We shall be, as usual at that
college, too heavily outnumbered.”

“What do you mean—outnumbered? Eleven on
a side . . .”

“Yes, eleven at a time; but they’ll drown us
under their reinforcements— substitutions, you
know.” And he continued :

“It is almost an axiom in football that with any-
thing like equality in the physical and mental
qualifications of two teams, the advantage lies
heavily with that group in which seniors pre—
dominate most largely. In a game so intricate and
complex as football has come to be, in which the
time for development is comparatively so limited,
every additional week of practice gives addedas-
surance of victory. I should
expect our first team to be
nearly if not quite the equal of
this final competitor’s first
team; but that game is going
to be fought out on the basis
of resources of fresh sub-
stitutes, and here that other

648

fair play in

By JOHN PALMER GAVIT

"In the last analysis, fair
play is the identifying char-
acteristic of civilization."

In the November issue of the "Survey
Graphic" there appeared an article
by Mr. Gavit in which he discussed
international
using football as a point of depar-
ture. Through the courtesy of the
magazine and of Mr. GavitI we are
reprinting a part of the article.

college can throw in a whole
second team practically all of
whom will have had three years
of coaching under the same
system; while we, when we be-
gin to substitute, will have to
rely upon sophomores.”

“But I thought this was supposed to be a sport,”
I protested. “As you describe it, it sounds like war.
And you take it so calmly—as if Haile Selassie
were complacently justifying one of Mussolini’s
‘glorious victories’ over the virtually unarmed
Ethiopians. Without batting an eyelash you tell
me that you expect defeat, not because your com-
petitor has better players, or stouter fellers; but
forsooth because he has more of ’em—fresh and
experienced troops in reserve, to be thrown in
after your slender first line has licked his, is tired
out, and you have only a few relatively raw re—
cruits to substitute. What startles me is not your
lugubrious recital of this lamentable inequality but
that you seem to see nothing out of the way about
it—only wishing that the discrepancy were 'the
other way about; that you had unlimited resources
to use, without shame.”

So he preached me an eloquent sermon, both
eloquent and convincing, upon the splendid effects
of college football training upon character. “It
is,” said he, “about the only place left in the
American college where there is any practical
training to make a man willingly subordinate his
own individual self to the welfare and purposes
of the group; to make him willing to spend all he
has in the way of physical, mental and moral
strength for the consummation of a common end,
in which any personal glory for himself is im-
probable.” He went on to argue that any college
did well to train the largest possible number of its
students in this discipline; specifically that Har-
vard, Princeton and Dartmouth, for examples,
were “doing a better job for
their men in developing the
maximum number to major
consequence than Yale, which
presumably in order to get the
greatest possible precision and
accuracy of play has confined

(Continued on page 677)

affairs,

 

 

Kenosha’s

Cultural
(:enter

osr COMMUNITIES during the past few years
have had their own little “white elephants”

in the form of public buildings rendered
obsolete or unsafe through long use, and replaced
with modern projects by grace of federal work
relief appropriations. Many have permitted these
forlorn relics of a greater glory in a bygone age
to continue on their way to ruin. Some have been
razed,others sold and removed for other purposes.
The city of Kenosha found itself with such a
problem. The federal government was building a
new post office on th'e site of the old—a build;
ing whose value as a post office was depleted be-
cause of inadequate size. The government needed
land on which to build its new post ofhce build-
ing, and the city needed some of the land on which
the old building stood for street-widening projects.

The city was completing a civic center, with a
$1, 500,030 High School building on the south side
of a plaza of one city block. On the north was a
$1,250,000 Court House; the new post office was
to be erected on the east. The city purchased the
remaining side to ‘complete the center, and an ex-
change of footage was arranged, the city of Ken-
osha securing the old post office building in the
transaction for one dollar. There was no doubt
but this was a real “buy,” and the citizens ap-
plauded the 'city administration.

Then the city got to work. It secured a CWA
project for moving the building to the open end

 

By G. M. PHELAN

Director

Department of Public Recreation
Kenosha. Wisconsin

It cost about $15,000 to move the building
nearly three blocks and another $8,000 to repair it
and remodel it for a museum, public meeting
place and cultural activity center for the city. In
two years the job was done. Federal aid had pro—
vided more than seventy per cent of the costs of
the entire project, and today Kenosha has a build—
ing appraised conservatively at $150,000. With
the 1938 tax collections, the entire project will
have been paid for.

With such a structure available, it was import-
ant that the citizens of Kenosha take advantage of
its opportunities.

The museum was placed under the direction of
the Public Library Board. An historical section
was created, and today the halls of the museum
and the exhibit room tell the history of Kenosha
and Wisconsin, as well as the story of its manu—
facturing enterprises. An auditorium with a seat—
ing capacity of 250 is used practically every day
and night. The art room presents traveling ex—
hibits in addition to the work of local artists, who
are given considerable encouragement through
this showing.

l

As a cultural and educational center the mu—
seum building has won wide acclaim. Ranking in
importance with the proud boast of the city that
it has one acre of public park for every 114 citi-
zens, is its pride in its historical and art museum.

649

of the civic center. The land for the new loca-
: tion had been purchased for $27,000 on land con-
 tracts. Public-spirited citizens bought $13,000 of
' improvement bonds owned by the city. This pro-
. vided the necessary ready cash to start the project.

USU KENOSHA’S CULTURAL CENTER

1:, the building appreciated by the citizens?
tic-re are some facts which answer this question:

In the first full year, since it was opened late in
1936, the building recorded an attendance of
61,501 men, women and children. The population
of this community is 50,000. '

Here is a typical week:

Monday afternoon—League of \Vomen Voters
meet in the auditorium.

Monday night—Practice sessions are held for
the Kenosha Symphony Orchestra, a volunteer
group of fifty musicians meeting weekly.

Tuesday afternoon—Several women’s organi—
zations alternate for meetings.

Tuesday night—Kenosha Civic Chorus of sev—
enty—flve voices rehearses.

Wednesday A special art exhibition by stu—
dents of Kemper Hall, girls’ school, is opened.

 

\Vednesday night—Kenosha Art Club meets.

Thursday afternoon—Open to various organi-
zations for meetings.

Thursday night—Kenosha Camera Club pre—
sents an exhibit of competitive photos and illus—
trated lectures.

Friday night—Lectures on educational topics
are sponsored by the Museum in its auditorium.
The building equipment includes complete pro-
jection booth wired for sound.

Saturday — Children’s illustrated lectures on ‘
topical history and educational projects are given,
with performances repeated four times during the
day for Kenosha’s eleven thousand school children.

Sunday afternoon—Children’s lectures are re— 
peated for overflow crowds and for adults.

Plans are being made to have the building used
for other cultural activities and musical units such
as bands, and for dramatic groups. It will be the
rehearsal area for the Little Theater movement.

The curator of the museum is W. E. Dickinson,
for thirteen years assistant curator of the Mil-
waukee Public Museum. 4

“Our nation, struggling through economic disas-
ter, harassed by floods and torn by conflicting
political opinions, has held to the American dream
of making the best of life available to all. On this .
foundation the public recreation movement is be
ing built in the interest of all who would find the
fullness of life in music, drama, arts and crafts,
sports, contact with nature, and other activities
that make up the play and recreation program.”—

A. TV. Castle in Public Education Bulletin, De—
partment of Public Instruction, Pennsylvania.

A typical children's audience at the museum

 

 

 

“ ~"

'l

A Progressive Game Kit

HE DECATUR Playground and

Recreation Board has found it

very helpful to have kits in
which to carry equipment for progressive game
parties. The Board has ten such kits, each of
which provides material for from twenty to a
hundred players, and they are in constant use. A
charge of fifty cents is made to cover the cost of
new score cards, scrap paper, pencils and any
supplies which must be replaced for each party.

Construction of the Kit

The kit, which is about 28” square and 12”
deep, is made of three—ply wood with reinforced
edges. It is an excellent idea to use a metal band
around the top of the kit. The bottom of the kit
is made of one inch material. When finished it
resembles a chest, having a hinged top, lock, and
a leather handle for carrying.

The size of the kit depends upon the games to
be used._ It is therefore advisable for any group
planning a kit first to make a list of the games de—
sired and to assemble the equipment. After this
has been done a box may be made to fit the equip—
ment selected. The kit used in Decatur can be
conveniently carried in a car and is not too clumsy
to be taken up and downstairs. The exterior of
the box has been painted brown with tan stippling.
“Community Recreation Association” is stenciled
on the box in white.

Equipment
The following equipment is packed into the kits
used in Decatur:

By FREDA S. COMBS
Decatur. Illinois

1 box of soda straws
1 box of penny matches

1 coffee can lid

1 set of indoor horseshoes

20 six-inch cardboard num-
ber cards

18 game descriptions

10 golf tees
1 medium size button
20 pencils

This equipment is sufficient for 18 games and
will take care of 72 people ’if four people play
each game. If five people play, it will take care of
90 people.' More games may be added if a larger
group uses the kit. The equipment mentioned will
provide a full evening’s entertainment and will
last for three hours if all the games are played.

The Procedure

The games are set up on tables, marked off on
the floor or hung on the wall as the nature of the
game dictates. Beside each is pbsted prominently
the number of the game. Very simple scorc cards
may be .made as follows. Number the games to be
played in order in two columns, on small, fairly
stiff cards. (Filing cards are excellent.) There
should be a card for every player. If four people
are to play together, draw a circle around Num—
ber I on each of four cards, a circle around Num—
ber 2 on each of four cards, and so on through all
the cards. When the score cards are given out
each player starts with the game indicated by the
encircled number on his card.

Players are given a brief period to learn how to
play the game and a whistle is blown as a starting
signal. All the players play for five minutes, when
time is called by the whistle. The players at each
game add up their scores and instead of putting

1 dart board
1 checker flipping board

1 muffin pan ..
6 fruit jar rubbers '

6 weasels (cork tied on a
string)

3 dice

1 set of pick-up sticks (home-
made)

1 box anagrams

1 marble game

1 tiddly—winks game

2 penny match box covers

1 milk bottle

8 Clothespins

4 wooden or cardboard dics

legg container (one dozen
size)

1 ping pong ball

1 bean bag board

6 bean bags

1 ring toss board

The recreation departments of a number of
cities are now providing game kits and the
plan is being found exceedingly helpful.
In many cities recreation departments are
loaning equipment to community groups with-
out having formal kits. The Oakland. Cali-
fornia. Recreation Department. for examplel
fills many requests for athletic equipment.
In addition. bean bags. puzzles. board and
table games and a limited amount of progres-
sive game equipment are kept on hand. There
are no set kits as such. but after consult-
ing with the borrowers on the nature of the
activity. every effort is made to provide
the equipment'or suggestions for making it.

down the actual score which they made, the one

who scored highest re—
ceives 100 points, the next
highest 75, the next 50
points, and the lowest 25
points. This method of
scoring is used when four
people play each game. If
more play together, an—
other method of scoring
may be used. The total
scores made may be re—
corded. As soon as the
scores are tallied all move
to the next game; i.e.,

651

652 A PROGRESSIVE GAME KIT

players at Game I move to Game 2, Number 2
moves to Number 3, etc. Players at Number 18

move to Game 1.

Each game should have typed instructions so
that contestants may learn the rules of the game,
thus making it unnecessary for the leader to ex-

plain each one.

The Games

Clothespin Drop. Place a quart milk bottle be-
hind a straight—backed chair. The players stand in
front of the chair, reach over and attempt to drop
Clothespins into the bottle. Each pin dropped in
counts one point.

Disk Quoits. Draw three concentric circles on
the floor, six, twelve and eighteen inches in di-
ameter. From a line twelve to fifteen feet distant
slide table coasters in an effort to cause them to
rest in the circles. The inner circle scores three,
the next two and the outer circle one. A pad
scores in the circle in which most of it rests.

Ping Pong Bounce Ball.‘ Place an egg carton with
twelve compartments on the floor. From a line
six to eight feet distant bounce a ping pong ball
on the floor, attempting to bounce it into the car-
ton. To score, the ball must remain in one of the
' compartments. Each contestant has three attempts
each turn, and each time the ball remains in the
carton one point is scored.

Jar Ring Toss. A board may be hung against the
wall or set on a table. Its center should be about
shoulder high. The'players stand ten feet from
the board. Each player is given six jar rings
which he tries to toss so that .they will hang on
the numbered nails or hooks driven or screwed

into the board. Players serve according to the,

totals of their “ringers.”

Muffin Pan Penny Toss. Set a book on end against
the wall and lean the- pan against it with the top
edge of the pan resting on the top of the -boOk.
The pan thus rests at an angle. Draw a throwing
line nine feet away from the pan. Give each
player three pennies, or better still, washers the
size of pennies. The players throw in turn, toss-
ing three pennies each turn. The thrower places
his knee on the throwing line and may lean as far
over the line as he chooses. He scores the number
of points designated by the compartments of the
pan in which the pennies rest.

Checker Snapping. On a cardboard twelve by
twenty-fOUr inches in size draw three concentric
circles near one end. These circles are three, six

and nine inches in diameter. Number the circles
3, 2 and I. The snapping line is eight inches from

‘ the outer circle. Place the cardboard on a table

and place a book against the bull’s—eye end of the
cardboard and one against either side of the card,
also at the bull’s—eye end, to stop the checkers.

A checker is placed at the snapping line, held
on the side with the index finger of the left hand
and snapped with one finger on the right hand. It
scores in the circle in which the greater part of it
rests. The players take turns in shooting, taking
three snaps at each turn. When not used in the
progressive party plan, the player wins who
reaches twenty—one first or goes farthest beyond
it when all have equal number of snaps.

Golf Tee Tenpins. An excellent progressive
party of t‘enpins may be played with golf tees.
Arrange- the ten tees on a table in the triangular
form used in bowling. On a line about eight
inches distant place a button and snap it with the
hnger, endeavoring to knock down the tees. Each
snaps two buttons in turn. Knocking all the tees
down with one button scores twenty; all knocked
down with two buttons scores ten, and single pins,
when all are not knocked down in two tries, count
one.

Tiddly-Wink Snap. Draw a one foot circle on a
table and place a tumbler in its center. Mark four
points on the table one inch outside the circle in
four different directions. The players take turns
in attempting to snap tiddly-winks into the tum-
bler, snapping four each turn, one from each of
the four points outside the circle. Each success-
ful snap scores one point.

Penny Roll. Place a safety match box cover on
its side on a table with its end against a book.
From a line two feet away the players attempt to
roll pennies into the cover. Each penny entering
the cover scores one point.

Bean Shooter Contest. Place a pan or kettle on
the floor. Provide a box of soda straws and a box
of large matches. Each player takes turns shoot-
ing matches into the pan with a soda straw as a
bean shooter, Each takes five shots a turn. The
matches must remain in the pan to score. Each
match so remaining scores a point.

Fruit Jar Ring Quoits. A board six inches square
and one inch thick is needed. In the center drive
a large nail. Place the board on the table. Jar
rubbers such as are used on fruit jars are used as
quoits. The throwing line is nine to ten feet.

(Continued on page 678)

 

F0 I“

"Heel and toe and one. two, three:  

Heel and toe and away we go."

"THE CIRCLE of nuns was moving, tripping one another have certain values, it is in the classes
rhythmically the old-fashioned measure, conducted for those who are closely associated and
laughing and singing as they went. have common bonds that informal efforts are most

“Blue-robed Sisters of Charity,
the Carmelites and Felicians in
different shades of brown, the
Holy Ghost Sisters in navy, and the
black habited Dominicans, Fran— -
ciscans, Misericordia order and the
School Sisters of Notre Dame.”

So ran the account of the re-
porter in the Milwaukee Journal
describing a session of a three day
recreation institute conducted by
Jeanne Barnes, Field Secretary,
Play in Institutions, of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, for
nuns in charge of Milwaukee in-
stitutions for children and young
people. The reCatholic Bureau of
Social Welfare spOnsored the
course in cooperation with the Mil-
waukee Municipal Recreation De-
partment and the National Recre-
ation Association. By actually
playing and practicing the leading
of games and folk dances the nuns
were learning to teach recreational
activities to the young people in
their charge. -

This institute was not only the
first of its kind to be held among
religious orders in Milwaukee, but
it was significant in other respects.
It marked the alertness of Cath-
olic authorities in making available
training of a practical sort to work-
ers in their institutions. With re-
spect to approach, it revealed the
wisdom of having classes that were
homogeneous. While mixed insti-
tutes where students are strange to Courtesy Milwaukee Journal

 

653

 

654 RECREATIONAL TRAINING FOR CATHOLIC INSTITUTIONS

successful. In them people more freely let them-
selves go. Beyond that the institute marked an-
other milestone in the steady march of planned
recreation into institutional life in the United
States.

Based on a Survey

The ground work for the Milwaukee course
was laid by the National Recreation Association
in a survey of Milwaukee institutions some six
months before. In this brief study, indoor and

outdoor recreation facilities were checked, the de-.

tails of programs were considered and suggestions
were made on ways of enriching the recreational
activities. These suggestions were repeated and
other comments added in letters to each Sister
'Superior, copies of the letters and a summary of
the whole situation being sent to Monsignor M. F.
McEvoy, Directorof the Catholic Social Welfare
Bureau.

More training in recreation activities was one
of the major recommendations and proved of par-
ticular interest to Monsignor McEvoy. He started
at once to plan for a training course, inviting Miss
Barnes to conduct it since she could lead activi-
ties, give instruction in techniques and was fa-
miliar with the problems, resources and limita-
tions of institutions.

The fifty participants in the Milwaukee course
represented orphanages, infant homes, maternity
homes and institutions for'problem children. The
program was varied to meet the different needs of
the respective institutions.

Content of the Course

Conducted in two three-hour sessions daily for
three days, the institute comprised lectures, dis-
cussions, demonstrations, activities and an ex-
hibit. Miss Barnes’ own description reads in part
as follows:

“Besides folk dancing, there was an hour
spent in party games, another in playground
games, and still another in a ‘progressive
party.’

“The rest of our time was devoted tp ~lec-
tures and some discussion. We considered
decoration of playrooms, sources of play sup-
plies, training of leaders, books and maga-
zines for children, the place of music and dra—
matics in the program, excursions, the manu-
facture of homemade games and other handi—
crafts. We were glad to have the help of the
Milwaukee Recreation Department and a
local doctor. The latter spoke on the value

of a recreation program from a doctor’s view-
point and also advised the Sisters on health-
ful activities for themselves. The Recreation
Department sent a speaker to point out the
advantages offered in the various recreational

agencies in the community which are available ',

to institution children. The Department also
contributed to a handicraft display.

“Exhibits played an important part in our
Institute. There were books and. other pub-
lications, examples of free and inexpensive
supplies available from various commercial
companies, source books from the local pub-
lic library, and handicraft articles. As is their
fashion the Sisters were sincerely interested
in the display, took many notes and asked
many questions. Their eagerness for new
ideas and their willing response throughout
the course were a constant inspiration to the
leader.

,“The climax of our recreation institute was
‘the show and community sing,’ at which the
photographer who snapped many pictures was
a special guest. We had a gay time acting out
nursery rhymes, pantomiming, trying cha-
rades, laughing at shadowgraphs and hand
puppets, and producing short plays. costumes
and properties helped to make it a hilarious
occasion, and many songs ‘between acts’
rounded out the program.”

Green Bay Institute

Other typical institutes for workers in Catholic
institutions were held in 1936 and 1937 at Green
Bay, Wisconsin and Riverdale, New York. The
institute at Green Bay was sponsored by the Green
Bay Apostolate of which Rev. Henry Head is
Director of Charities. Its program, representative
of the others, included an opening prayer and in-
troductory remarks by Bishop Rhode; lectures on
recreation values and needs in institutions, pro-
gram planning and other topics by Miss Barnes;
a talk on physical fitness by Dr. Burdon of Green
Bay; a short address on recreation by Father But-
ler; party games, playground games, singing
games, simple folk dances, informal dramatics, a
“progressive” party, group singing, mental games,
an exhibit of publications and a discussion of this
literature. "

The program at St. Vincent College, Riverdale,
N. Y., sponsored by the Catholic Charities Bureau
of the Archdiocese of New York, was similar to
that at Green Bay.

 

RECREA TIONAL TR. 11A ING FOR CATHOLIC INSTITUTIONS 655

Discussions Center on Special
Institutional Needs

To give a detailed analysis of
the lectures and discussions at the
institutes lies outside the scope of
this article. However, some indi-
cation of their content will be
given. As is natural, they empha-
size the problems peculiar to in-
stitutions and the needs and in-
terests of the wards of institu—
tions. According to a statement
by Miss Barnes, attention'is given
such topics as the following. It
will be seen that they apply to
non-Catholic as well as to Cath-
olic institutions.

I. Common Characteristics of
Institutions

1. Routine functioning

2.. Inadequacy of funds

3. Limitations of staff as to

number and capacity for

recreation leadership

Limited facilities

. Variation in length of resi-
dence of wards, some stay-
ing a short time, others a
long time

6. Separation of the sexes

7. The problem of staff re-

we

 

Courtesy Milwaukee Journal

lationships
ll. Characteristics of Institutional Children Com- 6. Clothes, dancing ability,_skills
pared  Children Owl-side d. community center partICipatIOH
I. Separation from home and family . 2. Desire for New Experience
2. Position in a group exhibiting a wide range A. Community Contacts

of mental age
3. Limited recreational background
4. Surprising lack of loyalty in team play
5. Easy adjustment to routine
6. Hunger for activity

a. Readjustment of a city child brought
up in a country institution to the city
upon release

1:. Surprises (change for the sake of

7. Intensity in play Variety ) _ .
8. Alleged destructiveness in play C. Athletic competition, daring contests
9. Involuntary nature of their presence in the D_ Adventure
Instltutlonal group a. Shouldn’t every child have a trip away
Ill. Basic Desires of Children in Relation to Recrea- 3311112112116 msmuuon at leaSt once a
“033' Exper'enge _t 1i. Camp; Nature
I. 83176 f0?” 3C1!” '3’ . Creativeness

A. Desire for One’s ,Own Possessions
a. Spending money

B. A Place of His Own

C. To Be at Home 'in the Community
through

a. Excursions
1). Friends ( C ontz'nucd on page 679)

F
3. Desire for Response
A. Friends Outside the Institution
(A chance to be hosts as well as guests)
B. Boy and Girl Friendships
C. Pets; Gardens

 

A novel approach to the study of
problems of community health and
physical education offering some
valuable recreational by-products

'1‘ THE TIME of the World’s Fair in
Chicago, one of the exhibits showed
papier-maché mask making which

reproduced in great detail the facial fea-
tures of an individual. In considering
'ways and means of constructing the map
showing the topographical features of Kalamazoo
which was greatly needed if we were to deveIOp a
comprehensive plan for dealing'effectively with
the proposed coordination of the city’s Health
Contributing Agencies, the thought occurred to us
that the technique of mask making might be ap-
plied to the making of the map.

Such a venture would involve a great deal of
work. A solution for this problem offered itself,
however, when the educational director of WPA
projects asked if there were any projects related
to the Health Contributing Agencies. which could
utilize the abilities of a number of high school
boys and girls who were in a position to give some
twenty hours of service a month.

The project we had in mind was outlined some-
what as follows to the WPA workers available:
We wanted a large relief map about five feet
square showing the physical features of Kalama—
zoo and the vicinity with a difference of about six
inches between the highest hill and the lowest
point on the river. Kalama—
zoo has a most interesting

 

By HAROLD W. COPP

Kalamazoo. Michigan

from the east and meandering northward. The
map was to show something of the view which
would be obtained by going aloft in a balloon over
the center of the city. However, after building
the base map showing the general topography,
only those streets, railroad tracks, highways, park
areas, schools and other buildings as were needed
to show the problems to be studied were to be put
in. If a committee wanted to study the problem
of swimming, special attention would be given to
marking out the swimming areas; if the problem
of winter sports was to be considered, skating
rinks, coasting, toboggan and skiing hills would
be spotted.

The Technique

The project was started by constructing a metal
tray five feet square and six
inches deep. Using the en-

topography involving a great
flat land including the down-
town area and the celery
beds extending northward,
the one-time glacial Lake
Kalamazoo. Rising two to
three hundred feet on all
sides, except at the extreme
north, are hills grooved by
valleys and streams, with the
Kalamazoo River entering

656

When Mr. Copp assumed the responsibility
for coordinating the activities of Health
Contributing Agencies in Kalamazool he
was confronted with the necessity for
keeping in view the total problem of the
natural area of the city. and of avoiding
the danger of overstressing particularly
acute problems at the expense’ of the

whole. This account of the way in which'

he met the situation and at the same
time provided interesting, enjoyable activ-
ity for a number of young people may
have suggestions for recreation workers.

gineering map of _Kalama-
zoo which showed contour
lines, a,clay model of the
area was constructed to the
scale of approximately 400
feet t9 the inch laterally and
50 feet to the inch vertically.
At hrst it was thought that
the contour could be built
up by measuring from the

(Continued on page 680)

 

  
   

~I
l‘

‘ l

 

for information re-
garding radio pro-
grams on recreation the
National Recreation As—
sociation sent out a
questionnaire asking for
certain information, in-
cluding the type of pro-
gram presented, at-
tempts to educate the public,
simple programs used, the time
of day of the broadcast, the fre—
quency of the programs, the use
of age groups, and special ac-
tivities. Of forty—three depart-
ments sending replies only four
stated that they do not use the
radio at all. Thirty—one had regular programs of
one type or another, while eight had occasional
broadcasts.
Most of the departments had little or no dif-
ficulty in securing radio time from local stations.

IN REPLY to a request

A point to remember in asking a radio station for-

time is this: Stations are looking for good pro-
grams, and if such a program is offered they will
in all probability be willing and glad to cooperate.
Much, of course, depends on the individual sta-
tion, but it is uSually possible to secure a regular
weekly period or at least occasional fill-in time.

From the standpoint both of the recreation de-
partment and the radio station a regular weekly
or twice-weekly program is better than the use of
occasional time or the broadcasting of special
events alone. From the point of view of the rec-
reation department this type of program makes
possible planning ahead so that the best available
material may be presented in an orderly, clear
fashion. From the point of View of the radio
station a good weekly program helps build up a
listening group.

In approaching a station’s program director for
radio time, a number of departments have found
a tentative program valuable. If for some reason
or another time on a station cannot be given out-
right, it will sometimes be possible to persuade
local organizations already presenting regular pro-
grams to include one or more on recreation. Some

 recreation departments have been successful in

 

This is Station NRA broadcasting
from 3|5 Fourth Avenue. New York
City! Are you using the radio to
bring information regarding your
recreation program into the homes

of the people of your community
so that they will know of the op-

portunities available for all?

I Use of Radio in the Local Recreation Program

securing the coopera--
tion of local organiza--
tions in presenting vari-
ous phases of the recre-
ation program at regu-
lar intervals.

Types of Programs
Presented

Here are a few of the
radio program features which
have been successful in the vari-
ous communities reporting:

I. The broadcasting of spe-
cial events to include such events
as a playgroundlor center open-
ing, a combined or city-wide
program—a pageant or a festi—
val; special day programs such as July 4th and
other holidays; interplayground athletic contests.

2. Series of talks by the recreation executive or
leading citizens interpreting the aims, values and
possibilities of recreation. The mayor, ministers,
police chief, judge, probation oHicer, superintend-
ent of schools, librarian, district attorney and the

secretary of the Chamber of Commerce may be
called on. '

Some subjects that might be used are:

0. Relation between adequate recreation facili-
ties and juvenile delinquency

b. National significance of public recreation
6. Labor and leisure

d. Leisure and youth
e. Psychology of leadership
f. History of local recreation department

g. What a particular playground or facility
means to the community

12. The need for a particular facility to make
more complete the service of the recreation de-
partment

3. Story lady of the air

This program will be of most value if presented
when the children are at home in the early evening.

4. Imaginary trips through playgrounds and
centers

This activity is most valuable when those taking
the imaginary tour are mothers and fathers. One
city even set this idea to poetry.

657 .

658 USE OF RADIO IN THE LOCAL RECREATION PROGRAM

5. Series of hobby talks
by persons who are out—
standing in their activity
fields

6. Varietyprograms from
the playgrounds and centers

Presenting small musical
groups, skits, instrumental,
vocal solos and readings.
Also a description of the
playground or center activi—
ties. This program might be
run as an amateur hour.

7. Music half hours

If a good men’s quartette or chamber group is
available this will be a popular feature, but it de-
pends on quality for success.

8. Series of talks on home recreation

9. Series of drama programs

Be sure you have paid royalties and have se-
cured permission to use the material.

This list of possibilities is not meant to be all
inclusive. The variety of needs and programs
makes such a list impossible.

If you are having trouble organizing your pro-
gram, ask your station’s program director for
help. He is a trained man and will probably offer
his services before you can ask for them.

Birmingham.

A Few Suggestions

Have you tried using a theme song or back—
ground music or both? These devices are just as
effective on your program as they are in a com-
mercial program. ..

Much of the success of your program will de-
pend on your advance program publicity. Use
bulletin boards, newspapers and radio spot an-
nouncements.

Have you tried sending a letter to a list of in-
fluential people calling their
attention to your programs?

Organized listening groups
are good publicity. Organize
one at each center and play—
ground.

Try to get a response to
your programs. Some excel—
lent suggestions may be the
outcome. If asking for reac-
tions and criticisms is not ef-
fective in bringing in a re-
sponse, try offering a map of
the recreation facilities in the

Recreation departments in the following
cities reported using radio broadcasts:
Berkeley.
geles. Oakland. Pasadena. San Francisco.
Hartford. Tampa.
Baltimore. Boston. Somerville. Battle Creek.
Detroit. Grand Rapids. Lansing. St. Paul.
St. Louis. Great Falls. New York City.
Rochester. Greensboro. Cincinnati. Dayton.
Oklahoma City. Pittsburgh. Reading. Mem-
phis. Houston. San Angelo. Salt Lake City.
Lynchburg. Richmond. Seattle and Madison.

Dubuque.

A number of the recreation departments
answering the questionnaire have sent
us copies of the scripts of their broad-
casts. These cover general explanatory
material. reviews of activities. special
activities. drama. opening day programs.
a tour through a community center
and allied subiects.
will be glad to send you samples of
these programs it you will tell us the
particular type of program in which you
are interested. These programs are in-
teresting in showing the techniques in-
volved. as well as the subiect matter.

community or a pamphlet
on home play for the list-
eners. to write for as an in-
ducement.

There seem, in general, to
be three periods during the
day which recreation de-
partments use most. The
period just before lunch
from 11:00 to' noon, the
period in the late afternoon
from 4:00 to 5 :30, and the
early evening. It must be pointed out, however,
that a generalization on this point is dangerous in
view of the great Variety of periods.

Most of the recreational radio work is being

Chico. Los An-

Louiseville.

done by recreation staff people and amateurs. ‘

\‘Vhile the quality of the programs must be kept
constantly in mind it is hoped that it will be un-
necessary in the majority of cases to resort to
the use of professionals. In using children, it has
been found advisable to select them carefully.

A recreation radio program is much like any
radio program; it must make an appeal to the
radio audience or it is of no value.

The Radio Industry and the educational inter-
ests of the country massed their forces in Chi-
cago during a three days’ conference to see what
could be done to resolve the fundamental difficul—
ties of educational broadcasting. The problem was
approached from the point of view of what radio
was doing to the listening public. One speaker as-
serted that radio had within it the power to wreck
0Ur civilization and therefore called for the most
careful study and.control. Strangely enough, all
speakers, while admitting the weaknesses of the
American system, thought it was the best for this
country. Ex—President Angell of Yale and now
Educational Counsel for the
National Broadcasting Com-
pany, stated that after a care-
ful study of radio in Eng-
land and on the Continent he
was convinced that govern-
ment control was no answer
to our problem. The same
criticisms and comparable
weaknesses are found in the
government controlled sys-
tems.

The crux of the debate
centered around two accusa-

.-

The Association

    

.y
l
:l
l

f l.

.7

USE OF RADIO IN THE LOCAL RECREATION PROGRAM 659

tions. Educational interests con-
tended that seventy-iive per cent
of present programs are “tripe”
the word being taken from lis-
tening groups. The Radio In-
dustry and listening groups say
that educational programs to
date are for the most part
stupid and dull. Educators were
accused of lacking the showmanship necessary to
put a pr0gram across in an acceptable manner.
Both sides good naturedly admitted their weak-
ness and set about to see what could be done. The
broadcasters repeatedly stated that they would
gladly give time to educational programs if and
when they could command the interest of a wide
listening public. Some advocated that special
channels on the air be reserved for educational
purposes. Others with equal force contended that
this would likely leave the educators with an air
channel but no listeners. Mr. Frank Ernest Hill
who has studied the question thoroughly for the
American Association for Adult Education urged
that the educational program be left with the
commercial interests with educators acting as
counsellors and critics.

Discussion groups were interested in practical
demonstrations of good educational programs, and
experiments that are now under way. Among the
most promising features that are now getting
recognition are:

I. The establishment of “Radio Workshops”
where educators are taught the best broadcasting
techniques. Those at New York University and
Ohio State University were cited.

2. The programs issued by the Office of Edu-
cation, such as Let Freedom Ring and This Brave
New World have attained first rank'among pro-
grams now on the air. While put on as a work
project, they have become models for good script
and broadcasting technique.

3. A Script Exchange, established by the Office
of Education, collects high grade scripts from
various sources and releases them to local com-
munities. One copy of each script will be sent to
any worthy organization free of charge and may
be used on local programs. They must not be sold
or commercialized, and extra copies if desired
must be made locally. These scripts are also used
in public speaking courses, broadcasting courses
and English classes. I

4. Transcribed programs are being widely used
for local broadcasts. It was generally agreed that

In connection with this statement
regarding broadcasting by local
recreation departments we are pre-
senting material from the report
of a meeting at Chicago devoted to
a discussion of educational broad-
casting. It will throw light upon
some of the problems and consid-
erations involved in broadcasting.

transcription offers one of the
best solutions to the educational
problem. Colleges, schools and
social agencies are now making
their own transcriptions and re-
leasing them over local stations.
Equipment for making electri-
cal transcriptions is on the mar-
ket at reasonable rates.

5. Colleges and universities are perfecting their
presentations of educational material. Ohio State

University and Wisconsin University are among
the leaders.

6. Research projects are being conducted by
several colleges with grants from the foundations.

7. Special programs put on by such organiza-
tions as the American Medical Association, the
American Red Cross have been well received. The
American Medical Association program called
“Your Health” and addressed to junior and
senior high schools is of outstanding quality, and
commands adult listener interest.

8. America’s Town Hall of the Air Was fre-
quently cited as the most satisfactory type of edu-
cational program. The combination of contro-
versy with fairness has almost universal approval.
One-sided propaganda except perhaps in election
campaigns is to be deplored.

Certain facts came out of the discussion which
may be helpful to persons interested in broad-
casting recreation programs.

I. The radio industry will usually give time to
any worthy program of an educational nature, on
a short series basis. Further extensions will be
made if programs prove satisfactory.

2. It takes ten to twelve programs to establish
a program on the air.

3. Good broadcasting is expensive. One of the
best programs from the Office of Education costs
2,000 man hours for a half hour performance.
However, good programs are being put on with
more reasonable expenditure; e.g. Boy Scouts,
Y.M.C.A., P.T.A., American Medical Associa-
tion, Red Cross.

4. A radio “voice” is a vital part in listener ac-
ceptance. Knowing a subject does not assure its
going across. Persons should be selected for
broadcasting whose voices are known to be ac-
ceptable.

5. The “talk” is the most diflicult thing to use
in getting listening interest. While drama is some-

(Continued on page 681)

Social Opportunity

through

The story of a small community whose
citizens wisely pooled their resources

that there might be recreation for all

zens of Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania, a town of
3.000 population, realizing the need for play-
ground facilities, established a playground under
the leadership of a playground committee. This
committee functioned under the Department of

IN THE SUMMER of 1936 a small group of citi-

Public Instruction, assisted by a county super-l

visor of the Recreation and Adult Education Di-
vision of the WPA.

From this one playground has developed a
flourishing community program.

Indoor Facilities Provided

With the approach of winter, the playground
committee looked about for indoor facilities for a
community leisure-time program for youth and
adults. A large unrented building was found
which offered possibilities. The of‘licials of the
bank owning the building were interested in the
program proposed, as were the members of the
Borough Council. The cooperation of the bank
officials, councilman and interested townspeople
resulted in the leasing of the building to the coun—
cil, which exempted the bank from taxes.

A Community Council Organizes

With facilities for a community center secured,
the next step was the enlargement of the play-
ground committee and the formation of a com—
_1nunity council which became the board of di-
rectors of the community center. Represented on
the board were the following agencies: Board of
Education, Secondary School Faculty, Ministerial
Association, Red Cross, Rotary Club, American
Legion, Parent-Teacher Association, Fire Com-
pany, Ladies’ Auxiliary of the Fire Company,
\Vomen’s Club, Triangle Club, Junior Women’s
Club, Chamber of Commerce, Men’s Federation
of Bible Classes, Girl and Boy Scout Committee.
A special community center committee consisting
of three members was appointed by the president

660

-rector. The success of the venture is evidenced by

Community Planning

By FREDERICK M. MACHAMER

Special Cdrresponden’r
Selinsgrove "Times"

  
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
    
   
  
  
   
     
    
  
   
  

of the Borough Council from that body. These
men are also members of the board of directors.
Furthermore, to assure youth ample opportunity
to assist in planning the community program,
each of the six Sunday Schools was invited to
designate a young person to membership on the
board. Further representation of youth was pro-
vided by having a boy and girl selected from each

of the junior and senior classes in the Secondary
SchooL

A Community Chest Organized

With this organization effected, attention was
next turned to finances. Funds were needed to
furnish the community center and meet expenses
incident to conducting a community program. The
solution this time was found in the organization
of a community chest. In this undertaking the
center joined with the local Boy Scouts, Girl
Scouts and the Mary Packer Hospital of Sunbury
which serves Selinsgrove.

Accordingly, a community chest organization
was set up and a three day campaign conducted.
This was purely a local affair conducted by eighty
volunteer workers and a local and unpaid di—

the result of the campaign. The goal set was
$2,000. At the end of the third day subscriptions
totaling $2,063 had been received, of which $1,”60
had been paid in cash. Contributors numbered
725, including 161 secondary school students. A
separate chest organization was set up in the sec- '
ondary school, thereby providing for youth to

share the experiences of their elders. I

A lively spirit of cooperation and community

SOCIAL OPPORTUNITY THROUGH COMMUNITY PLANNING 661

realized that they could accomplish what many
thought was impossible if they set out together to
reach a common objective. The organization of
the community chest was also very significant
since it demonstrated how a community council
could function as a coordinating agency, thereby
eliminating duplication of effort in a community.

Developing a Community Program

The board of directors had set up a proposed
list of activities which it was hoped could be em-
bodied in the community leisure-time program.
This list included social and recreational mUsic,
drama and pageantry, community athletics. play-
grounds, arts, crafts, hobbies, indoor community
physical recreation, safety supervision for bath-
ers, camping and nature lore, library and reading
room, public forums and youth activities.

Some of the accomplishments follow.

Amateur Radio and Junior Stamp Clubs. Shortly
after the opening of the center an amateur radio
club was organized with a membership of about
twenty-five men living within a ten mile radius,
the majority of them licensed operators. Meet-
ings were held weekly under expert volunteer
leadership. Youthful stamp collectors decided to
organize, following the example of senior phi-
latelists. About twenty-five boys and girls are now
members of the club which holds bimonthly meet-
ings and presents special programs.

Community_Health Service. Following these ini-
tial developments came the establishment of a
community health service conference. This was
made possible through the cooperation of the
State Department of Health and a special com-
munity center committee on health service. Three
local physicians employed by the state serve in

four month relays. The work is under the super- .

ments was the deveIOpment of a community bath-
ing beach. To secure such facilities the center’s
committee on safety for bathers investigated all
popular “ole swimmin’ holes” in the vicinity and
chose the one considered most suitable. Through
volunteer labor and the cooperation of the Bor-
ough Council and town business men a beach was
developed. Swimming instruction was provided
by a senior life guard assisted by several junior
life guards, all volunteers. Attendance at the
beach was between 100' and 250 bathers. daily
throughout the summer, and at the termination of
the season a water sports carnival was held.

Camp Selin Established. To provide youth of
the community with additional recreation during
the summer, a camp for boys was started by the
center’s committee on camping and nature lore.
The boys, keenly interested, selected officers,
named a committee to purchase supplies, de-
termined camp routine, chose a name for the
camp and selected a camp site. On an island in
the middle of the Susquehanna nine boys, under
the leadership of a volunteer counsellor, enjoyed
camp life for six days, performing tasks which
many years ago were performed not as recreation
bur as earnest labor by their forefathers on the
mainland a half mile away.

School Facilities Available. The completion of a
modern secondary school provides gymnasium fa-
cilities for a community indoor physical recreation
program for out-of-school youth and adults. In
preparing the schedule for the use of the gym-
nasium, the Board of Education, cooperating with
the center’s committee on indoor physical rec-
reation, set aside two evenings a week when the
gymnasium would be available for the use of the
men and women of the community. The Board
of Education has also authorized the employment

    

vision of the county nurse.
Weekly clinics are held in
the center. . ‘
Playgrounds. For the sec-
ond season the playground
for older boys and girls
was opened under the su-
pervision of WPA recrea-
tion leaders. To meet the
needs of younger children a
second playground was es-
tablished on the lawn in the
rear of the communty center.
A Bathing Beach. Possibly

' _ most popular of the achieve-

From January l4—2ll I938, the Selinsgrove

community center celebrated the first an-
niversary of its official opening. On Jan-
uary l4th the center was crowded with a
group of citizens enjoying the first Par-
ent Education Association community card
party. . Youth Day' which immediately fol-
lowed, introduced the first community

party and dance for young people spon-
sored by the Klub U Neel(, a recently or-

' ganized group of young men who meet each

week to discuss problems of interest to
youth. On the final day of the week the
board of directors of the center enter-
tained at dinner a number of local offic-
ials and special guests from out of town.

of teachers to serve as

‘leaders of this program of

community indoor physical
recreation. Men and women,
many of whom are enjoy- .
ing their initial experience
in this type of recreation,
are participating in increas-
ing numbers.

The recent school gradu-
ate is finding in this pro-
gram an opportunity to con-
tinue to enjoy recreation
activities learned in school.
Parents are enthusiastically

662 SOCIAL OPPORTUNITY THROUGH COMMUNITY PLANNING

0.. o
I
a : v-3-.o..

not-OOOOOoQ-Oooo‘ogo
- V 9 o - a o u o

o
.0
-3
o
'0
i
g.
9'
E.

 

The game room of the center makes a special

sharing recreation experi-
ences enjoyed by their
children during the regular school session. The
school has enlarged the scope of its recreation
program so as to include the entire family. This
is a new experience in the life of the community
but one that is already effecting a change in the
interest of citizens in their school and the school
program.

Handcratts. One of the proposed activities in
the winter program of the Junior Women’s Club
was the provision of an opportunity for work in
handcrafts. Trained volunteer leadership was
found Within the club’s own group, and facilities
for their workshop were made available in the
community center. Members of the club were
eager to acquire skill in various types of hand-
crafts. As articles were completed, friends see-
ing them, frequently expressed the desire to have
a similar opportunity to receive instruction. As a
result of this interest consideration is now being
given to the possibility of providing opportunities
for instruction in handcrafts to persons not mem-
bers of the Junior Women’s Club.

The Library. Through the interest of citizens
and the] Parent-Teacher Association, a small 1i-

appeal to the young people of the community

brary has been established
in the community center.
The demand for additional books and interest
in current reading material has become so
marked that plans are now being formulated,
through a special library committee of the cen—
ter to establish a community public library.
This committee has discovered several profes-
sionally trained librarians in the community
from whom valuable volunteer assistance can

. be secured in organizing the library. A num-

ber of citizens have indicated a desire to con-
tribute books from their personal libraries and
a circulating library, consisting of fifty vol-
umes, is available from the State Library. A
special rental library is being introduced. The
community center will provide facilities for
housing the library and will also furnish per—

”sonnel to take charge of the library. A special

room in which regulation library shelving has
been erected has been set aside to house the li-
brary, and adjoining space will be used for
reading rooms. Plans are being made for the
observance of a special book week when books
will be collected.

(Continued on page 681)

   
   

l
l

i ow A SOUTHWESTERN city of 55,000 with 110
’r H acres of mostly undeveloped park sites was
altered within two years to merit the de-e
i. scription of “the most attractive industrial city in
America,” is the story of the activities of civic-
] conscious women in Port Arthur, Texas, in beau-
tifying their community and introducing a recrea-
. tion program.

Port Arthur had started from “scratch” forty
| years before, and although park sites had been
laid out in the plat of the town site, the city had
grown so rapidly that park development failed to
keep pace with population. Concerned over this
neglect of the parks, various women’s o-'ganiza-
tions began urging the City Council to do some—

thing toward improving the existing conditions.

An S.O.S. Goes to the Women!

Unfortunately, the effects of the depression
were still being felt. Handicapped i" curtailed
municipal revenue, the Council finally turned the
problem over to the women and in February,
1935, a city Park Board was created composed of
five women from organizations which were among
those urging the necessity of a park beautification
program.

When the B0ard went into action most of the
city parks, particularly those in outlying areas,
were the sites of lush weed growths and in some

' instances accumulations of refuse. There were a
few notable exceptions in the uptown areas where
various organizations over a period of years had
sponsored the development of particular parks
with attractive results. The Board called in these
. organizations and a plan was worked out for co-
. ordinating their activities. Members studied dusty
4. blueprints for park improvements that had piled
up at city hall and settled on a definite program
of intensive beautification and the installation of
such recreational devices as swimming pools, ten-
nis courts, playground equipment and the like.

Meanwhile, the City Council had appropriated
for the first year’s operations the
munificent sum of $2,000. With this

‘ fund the Board’s first act was to
I» hire a park superintendent. Realiz-
ing that the money available would
be woefully inadequate for a com-
prehensive improvement program,

31 Beautification by Cooperation

By J. C. WATKINS

Chamber of Commerce
Port Arthur. Texas

the Board immediately went after aid from the
various work relief agencies of the federal gov-
ernment. Determined to do a thorough job, they
obtained projects from the WPA, the FERA, and
the NYA. Reaching all possible sources of man-
power, they obtained the work of city prisoners
and federal transient relief labor.

And They in Turn Call for Help!

The situation, through the efforts of the Board,
was dramatized in such a manner as to turn park
improvement into a community project. Aided
by liberal support from the press, the women
evoked a wide response when they asked for do-
nations of trees, flowers and shrubs for planting.
These were set out by the hundreds. Sympathetic
store managers donated materials and painters’
unions the manpower for painting all park struc-
tures. Concrete walks were laid in the parks,
wading pools reconditioned and put into opera-
tion, and shrubbery that had been allowed to grow
untended was trimmed and pruned. .

Encouraged by this display of community and
governmental cooperation, the women not only
began making noticeable headway in improving
existing parks, but started the deve10pment of
new ones. One of the most unsightly places in
the city had been the abandoned site of an old
abattoir. Situated near a hospital, it long had been
an eyesore. The women determined to rectify this
situation by creating on the site a park which, ap-
propriately enough, was named “Pioneer.” Work-
ing in cooperation with the American Legion, they
cleared this twenty-acre site of its piles of refuse,
graded it and filled in the areas occupied by two

The way to civic beautification through commun~
ity cooperation has undergone a laboratory test—
and a most successful one—in Port Arthur, Texas

663

064

old reservoirs, laid shell drives through it and
planted trees and shrubs, converting it into an at-
tractive spot. Plans are now under way for the
construction of a swimming pool, baseball dia-
monds, tennis courts and other devices which will
turn the park into a recreation center.

A Recreation Program Is Initiated

The launching of a recreation program came as
an answer to a long—felt need. A WPA project

provided for the employment of a park recreation,

supervisor and fourteen assistants. These, work—
ing under the direction of the Park Board, de-
veloped a program of supervised play in the parks,
with wiener roasts, Hallowe’en and May Day
parties, hobby shows, Christmas caroling, kite and
marble contests, sports tournaments and the like.
Police and probation officers attributed the drop
in juvenile delinquency to the development of
supervised play in the parks.

Outstanding among
park recreational ac—
tivities was the
establishment of
a Lend-a—Toy " ‘ 4‘
headquarters. ’,
When the Park
D e p a r t m e n t
broached the
idea, sympathetic
citizens, search-
ing their‘ attics
and old trunks, '
unearthed 'hun-
dreds of dis-
cardedtoys
These were turn—
ed over to the
city firemen for
repairing and
painting, and
subsequently
placed in a build—
ing in one of the
parks. Children
obtained the sig-
natures of their
parents to cards
entitling them to .
borrow toys in
the same manner’
as library pa.-
trons borrow

The Lend-a-Toy library is one of the activities which
has grown out of the campaign for parks and recreation

 

BEA UTIFICA TION BY COOPERATION

books. After enjoying the use of the toys for a
certain period, the children return them and take
out others. As a precautionary measure the play—
things are sterilized upon their return. This proj-
ect has been hailed as a complete success, since it
permits many children to play with toys that their
parents could not afford to buy for them.

Increased 'Funds Provided

The accomplishments of the Park Board have
convinced the City Council of its value.
The first year’s appropriation of $2,000 was
doubled the next year, and in this, the third year
of operation, $19,000 has been allotted for the
project.

Furthermore, by the time civic leaders began
proposals for a large bond issue to finance a lake
front reclamation program and other community
projects, the citizens had become so thoroughly
enthusiastic over parks and their improvement that
much of the proceeds
of the proposed issue

in advance to the
f in a n c in g o f
further recrea-
tion and beauti-
fication plans for
the park system.

More import-
ant than its act-
ual record of
park improve—
ment is the fact
that the Park
Board, through
its efforts, infect-
e d t h e e n t i r e
community with
the spirit of beau~
tilication. Resi-
dents and home
owners, impress-
ed by the activity
around them, be-

and setting out
rose bushes,
shrubbery and
flowers on an un-
precedented

(Continued on
page 682)

was dedicated

gan purchasing .

    

l»
[I
if

u
|

’h‘
h.
I"
‘ l

0w EXTENSIVELY are rec-

H reation areas being light-
ed for night use? What

q are the types of facilities which
I are being lighted? W'hat addi-
; tional facilities have been made
possible because of the light-
ing of areas and what has been
the effect of lighting on at-
l tendance? “hat is the gen-
l eral practice throughout the

country regarding fees and charges?

These were some of the questions on which in—
formation was sought in a questionnaire sent to
about 300 recreation agencies, 178 of which
replied.

 

Dates of First Installations

One fact takes precedence in the findings. The
last four years have shown a tremendous increase
in the use of recreational facilities. Of the 112
agencies reporting the date when a lighted play
area was used for the first time, 36 per cent re-
ported first installations since the beginning of
1934. A number of installations were also made
during the four year period from 1927 through
1930, when 32 agencies reported lighting play
.areas for the first time.

Approximately 59 per cent of all the new in-
s1allations during the period 1932—1937 were in

Because of the increasing number of
inquiries being received regarding
the extent to which lighting is be-
ing provided on outdoor recreation
areas. the National Recreation Asso-
ciation sent approximately .300 ques-
tionnaires to recreation agencies in
various parts of the country. About
59 per cent of these questionnaires
were returned. Some of the findings .
of the study are reported here.

cities of less than 50,000 population. Installations

i' Lighting of Outdoor Recreation Facilities

in cities of this size represent-
ed 47 per cent of the total in-.
stallations during the period
1927-1932; only 7 per cent for
the period 1922-1927; 21 per
cent for the period 1917-1922,
and 17 per cent during the
period 1912-1917. These fig-
ures indicate a distinct trend
toward the more widespread
use of lighted recreation areas
in the smaller cities.

Two cities, Chicago, Illinois, and Nashville,
Tennessee, report lighted recreation areas as early
as 1901. \Nhether these two cities can be consid-
ered the pioneers in the use of lighted areas can~
not be stated definitely, but it'is logical to assume
that 1901 is a close approximation to the date of
the first installation.

Numbers and Types of Lighted Facilities

F orty-two different types of lighted recreation
facilities were reported by the 140 agencies re-
porting facilities. Twenty-seven different types of
facilities were reported in use by two or more
agencies. and 19 different types by three or more.

Fifty-three agencies reported five or more dif-
ferent types of lighted facilities. Of this group
29 agencies or 55 per cent were located in seven
southern states and California. Inasmuch as only
34 per cent of the agencies reporting lighted fa-

 

665

666 LIGHTING OF OUTDOOR RECREATION FACILITIES

cilities are located in the southern states and Cali-
fornia, this would indicate a more extensive use
of a variety of lighted recreation facilities in those
parts of the country where climatic conditions
permit more intensive use of outdoor recreation

facilities.

Softball facilities were reported by the greatest
number of agencies. Seventy-six agencies re-
ported this type of facility. Fifty-nine agencies
reported lighted tennis courts and swimming

pools.

A total of 3,125 separate lighted recreation fa-
cilities was reported by the I40 agencies, an aver-
age of 22.3 per agency. Of this total, I207 or 39
per cent were horseshoe courts, tennis courts and
ice skating areas. Horseshoe courts were most
numerous with a total of 472, and tennis courts
were next in number with a total of 422. The 19
types of lighted facilities reported in use by three
or more agencies are listed in Table I. The num—
ber of cities reporting each type and the number
of facilities of each type are also listed.

Sixteen agencies reported year—round use of
lighted playground areas such as children’s play-
grounds and sections of neighborhood playfields
used for a variety of play activities. One hundred
and forty-nine of these general areas were re-
ported, an average of 9.5 areas per agency. Four-
teen of the 16 agencies are located in the southern
states and California.

Number and Types of Lighted Recreation Facilities
(I I6 Agencies)

Number of N o. of Facilities

Agencies Avg. Per
Type of Facility Reporting Total Agency
Softball Diamonds . . . . . . . . . . 76 269 3.5

Tennis Courts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59 422 7.1

Swimming Pools . . . . . . . . . .. 59 166 2.8

Horseshoe Courts . . . . . . . . .. 55 472 8.5

Football Fields . . . . . . . . . . . .. 51 78 . 1.5

Ice Skating Areas . . . . . . . . . . 44 313 7.1
Neighborhood Playgrounds... 43 310 7.2
Volley Ball Courts . . . . . . . .. 33 219 6.6

Picnic Areas . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 31 99 3.1

Baseball Diamonds . . . . . . . . .. 24 63 2.6

Bathing Beaches . . . . . . . . . . .. 23 ‘ 58 2.5

Shuflieboards . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 11 153 13.9 '

Handball Courts . . . . . . . . . . .. 11 121 11.0

Toboggan Slides . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 25 2.2

Bowling Greens . . . . . . . . . . .. 11 15 1.3

Basketball Courts . . . . . . . . . .. 10 83 8.3

Croquet Courts . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6 53 8.8

Archery Ranges . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 11 2.2

Roque . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 13 3.2

Effects of Lighting on Attendance

Playgrounds and General Play Areas. Out of the
44. agencies reporting lighted playgrounds and

general play areas 41 stated that the lighting of
the areas had definitely increased the attendance
and three were noncommittal. Eighteen agencies
made statements indicating increases while 23
agencies stated definite percentage increases as
follows:

Percentage I n crease

Number of Agencies

 

Less than 25 % . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

25% through 50% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

50% through 100% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

200% through 300% . . . . . . . . . . .  . 3

400% through 500% . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

Aver-age 147% increase . . . . . . . . . . .. 23

Special Facilities and Sports Areas. Out of I38
agencies reporting some type of special facility or
sports area, 94 or 68 per cent indicated increases,
42 were non—committal and only two indicated no
increases in attendance. Forty-three agencies
stated definite percentage increases as follows:

 

Percentage Increase Number of Agencies

Less than 25% . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

25% through 50% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

50% through 100% . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 17

100% through 300% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7

300% through 500% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

1000% through 1500% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Average 202% increase . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 ‘

   
   
  
   
   
 
 

A comparison of percentage increase figures for I I
general play areas and special areas shows much
greater increases in the latter group. A majority
of the agencies reported large increases in adult
participation after recreation areas were lighted. 
l
Additional Activities Made Possible t

by Lighting .

For the most part, the new activities or feature
events that have been made possible by the lighted
recreation areas are non-physical in nature. Pag— l
eants, festivals, band concerts and community .
nights were reported most frequently as new ac-
tivities. In practically all cases, the activities re-
ported were those appealing primarily to adults.
Adult participation in softball, football and volley
ball 'was reported as additional by some of the

agencies.

1

Fees and Charges

Although by far the greatest portion of the
costs of installing and maintaining lighted areas is
met by the agencies themselves, 54 per cent of the
agencies defray all or part .of the costs by charg-
ing participation fees, admission fees or both. ,

Participation Fees. Fifty-six or two-fifths of thei'i
agencies charge participants for the use of lightedl
(Continued on page 682) d}

 

YOUI" Museum

" HERE ARE many types of children,” says

Miss Ruth V. Weierheiser in an article,

The Child and His Museum. “In order to
attract a large percentage without coercion, there
must be great variation and flexibility in pro-
grams, activities and materials used. Some boys
and girls enjoy collecting things; others like to
draw and model; still others wish to explore in
the open. The well—rounded science museum pro-
gram will have a little of each of these, and there
will be no urging for the boy or girl to enter any
one of them. Just let one group of children look
in on another group and no advertising will be
necessary l”

A.Visit to the Museum

Of course there must be an
introduction. Since 1901 the
Buffalo Society of Natural
Sciences has offered docentry
and lecture service to the
school children of the city.
There are two ways to do
this; either a lecturer plus
slides and exhibits visits the
schools or the school pupils
' visit the museum. After try-
ing both methods the latter was found to be far
._ better. ;

The Department of Education of the city of
Buffalo maintains a dozen buses which primarily
are used for the transportation of the crippled
children to and from their special school. As
I soon as the crippled children are deposited a cer—
tain number of buses are used to bring children
from the public and parochial schools to the mu-
' seum. The public school 'pupils arrive between
9 :30 and 10:00 in the morning and leave at I I :30.
Parochial pupils arrive at 12 :45, departing at
2:00. The attendance runs about 200 children in
the morning and 100 in the afternoon. In the
autumn the fifth and sixth graders are brought to
the museum. The fourth and seventh graders have
their programs after the first of February.

As the boys and girls arrive a visit to the cloak
room comes first, after which each group is as-
signed to either the Humboldt. room or the audi-
torium for the first portion of the program. This
consists of a short talk illustrated with slides.

reation centers.

"Do recreation workers make adequate
use of their local museums?ll Not all
cities, to be sure. have museums. but
where such facilities are available they
have much to offer children and young
people attending playgrounds and rec-
An idea of the vari-
ety of services which may be offered is
to be gleaned from the October issue of
Hobbies, the magazine of the Buffalo
Museum of Science which has an outstand-
ing program. We present a few extracts
from articles appearing in this issue.

The work is already familiar to them as they have
had silent reading forms plus a glossary and a
game in their schools on the preceding day. After
the lecturer has completed her part of the pro-
gram, each class is conducted on a hour’s tour of
the main exhibition halls under the personal guid—
ance of a trained docent. -

The Story Hour

The museum’s junior program during the
child’s leisure time is entirely different from any
contacts he may make with the museum when he
is attending school. First, he is governed a great
deal by age, but he also has
the advantage of being able
to make choices for himself.
One of ourpldest junior ac-
tivities is story hour held in
the auditorium every Satur-
day morning at 10:30 from
October through April. Only
children between the ages of
six and twelve are eligible to
register. Programs consist of
nature stories and facts il-
lustrated with slides and mo-
tion pictures. Over 800 girls
and boys register annually for story hour. At-
tendance records are kept by means of a badge
system, each child having his own number and
badge. A dozen older boys and girls who are still
in story hour act as assistants and are known as
“blue badgers” because of the extra blue satin in-
signia that they wear.

After School Classes

It is from story hour that many recruits are
obtained for the later afternoon and Saturday
classes. The regular classes cover such topics as
American Indians, astronomy, birds, botany, trees.
reptiles, minerals, geology, wild flowers, mammals,
sea life, invertebrates and meteorology. Note-
books are kept in classes and much crayon work
is done, mimegraphed outlines often being colored
from the object itself, especially if it is a bird or
mammal. Each class meets once a week and aver—
ages twenty-seven lessons throughout the autumn,

winter and spring.

667

668 YO U R M USE U M

 

. Courtesy Buffalo Museum of Science

Learning Becomes a Game

In addition to the classes and children’s story
hour, there are twelve sets of game questions
which are enjoyed by the boys and girls who are
in fifth grade or beyond. Each set of game cards
is printed on ,a different colored stock. The ques-
tions are based on the factual material contained
in the exhibit labels. To play, the child finds the
answer, learns it and then awaits his turn to recite
it to an instruetor. If he gives a satisfactory an-
swer he proceeds to the next question. In April
all pupils who have completed sets are requested
to appear for a review of each set they have
finished.

Museum credits are granted for the completion
of certain goals in the various activities. In story
hour a member receives three museum credits if
he has been present twenty or more times. In
classes he receives three credits if he has been
present at twenty or more sessions and has a com-
pleted notebook. Each game set completed and
reviewed orally nets one credit to the player. Two
crédits are awarded in the class for juniors, the
Roosevelt Field Club and the Craft Club. Again
the credits are based on work completed or num-
ber of times present or both. The same is true of
the nature sketching hobby clubs and the museum

Sketching appeals to children
of all ages from six years up

series—that of the sixty credit
mark which carries an award of
a handmade gold pin.

Clubs of All Kinds

Have you ever dipped tadpoles
out of a stream with a strainer
and carried them home in a fruit
jar? Have you ever caught and
tamed a snake so that it would
sun itself in your hands? These
are a few of, the field activities of
the members of the Roosevelt Field Club now in
its nineteenth year of existence. Outside of the
public school program it is our oldest junior ac-
tivity. There are between two and three hundred
members each year ranging in ages from ten to
eighteen who paysmall annual dues. Ten trips
afield are conducted every spring and autumn,
private buses being used for transportation to and
from the museum. During the winter months in-
door illustrated lectures on “How to Become a
Young Naturalist” are presented in the audi-
torium on Saturday afternoons.

The Junior Hobby Club, now in its tenth year,
is a group of a dozen boys and girls of high
school age who meet weekly in the Roosevelt
Field club room. They publish a mimeographed
magazine three times a year in which articles and
commentaries by' the members appear, based
mostly on the activities of the museum. The sale
of magazines at five cents each keeps this club in-
dependent and gives the members a taste of the
business world, especially the publishing and
writing field.

Believing that many children have latent talents
in modeling and other types of handcraft, such
groups have been fostered on Saturday after-
noons. This year’s group is a craft club to which

. . ' . . l
aPPTCClathH Course for Junlors. admittance is gained by ability in drawing or.

modeling regardless of physical age. Wax model-l .
ing, Clay modeling, plasticine work, leaf printing, j 
casting in plaster and soap carving are some of the
projects that have been worked out.
There is quite a difference in a club and a class . ‘
at the museum. The attendance requirements are .
about the same for both, but completed notebooks\ -

Any child accumulating twenty credits is in-
vited to be present at a special program toward
the endlof April when he receives a diploma. Or
if he has reached the forty credit mark he is pre—
sented with a silver medal and a membership in
the society until he is twenty—one years of age. -
We have recently had to add another goal to the_

  
   

 

YOUR MUSEUM 669

are demanded in the classes and not in the clubs.
The club meetings are most informal and no re-
views, either oral or written, are included in the
club programs.

Sketch Club Popular

Knowing that a science museum provides a
wealth of resources for art students, a sketch club
for juniors was inaugurated seven years ago. Not
only has this activity proved a hobby for many
talented children but it has also proved another

use for museum materials. There are now two‘

junior divisions in sketching. The junior group
meets Tuesdays and Thursdays after school and
is composed of all ages from six years up. The
museum lends the sketchers camp stools and draw-
ing boards. They either bring their own supplies
or purchase them at cost at the museum. Pencil
and colored chalks have been most popular as
media of expression. The registration averages
500 annually with an average attendance of 75 to
100 at each session. Participants may sketch any
exhibit in which they are interested. Criticisms
are given by the instructor. From this junior
group have been gleaned some above average
workers who have been invited to come on Sat-
urday mornings and join the Honorary Nature
Sketching Hobby Club. The bulk of this group is
composed of five pupils sent each year from the
freshman high school art classes who attend year
after year until they are beyond the teen age
group. Each May an exhibit is held of the best
work of both the sketching groups.

Music Appreciation

Six years ago junior
music appreciation was
begun by sending a set of
five tickets to every pub-
lic, private and parochial
school in the city. The
schools in turn picked
their own best music pu-
pils from the sixth, sev-
enth and eighth grades
and sent them to the mu-
seum on Saturday after-
noons. These courses
have consisted of types
of music, lives of great
musicians, kinds of na-
tional music and works
of the greatest compos-

.‘ -- t
.- ___-~ ‘ .‘-

ers. The pupils make up their own notebooks,
for credits are based on completed notebooks and
attendance records. The courses have been in
charge of competent music teachers, and the pro-
grams are illustrated by artists and by phonoj
graph records.

Other articles in the October issue of Hobbies
tell of additional activities in the museum. Each
\Vednesday at 3 :00 RM. for a period of six months,
from November through April, the museum con-
ducts travel talks. A sampling of the travel talk
titles includes the following: Along the Coast of
California; Honolulu, Crossroads of the Pacific;
Storm Centers of European Diplomacy—the
B'lediterranean, the Danube and Geneva; Sunlit
Norway; Farming in India; the Present Status
of Palestine; the City of Washington; Monu-
ments of Ancient Egypt; Syrian Development
Through the—Eye of the Movie Camera.

The museum has an active music program. It

' offers facilities for people to write music, play

music and listen to music. There is a students’
symphony orchestra which provides an oppor-
tunity for students, amateurs and professionals
who desire practice in symphony orchestral play-
ing. There is a chorus of mixed voices. The mu-
seum sponsors appearances of the Buffalo sym-
phony orchestra and conducts courses in music ap-
preciation. The Carnegie College music set is

(Continued 'on page 684)

Over 800 boys and girls of Buffalo register
annually for the Saturday morning story hour

 

Courtesy .8115an Museum of Science

Even the Theater Takes to the Trailer

1\ IMMENSE mov—
A able stage, be—
lieved to be the

only one of its kind in

the world, has made
possible the convert-

A mechanical "leviathan on wheels" IS
the new movable stage at Randall's ls-
land Stadium, in the construction of

whichWPAot NewYorkCitycooperated
with the Park Department of the city.

two layers of yellow
pine. The stage proper
measures I40 feet
across at the proscen—
ium arch and has a
depth of 90 feet. The.

ing at will of Ran-
dall’s Island Stadium,
New York City, into an outdodr theater.

Impressed by the public’s appreciation of out—
door dramatic performances, as demonstrated at
Jones Beach and elsewhere, ofticials of the New
York City Park Department and the Works Prog-
ress Administration decided to construct a stage
at Randall’s Island Stadium. The continual
scheduling of athletic events at this stadium, how-
ever, made it necessary to plan a mobile stage that
could be rolled off the field before athletic con-
tests, and on again when it was desired to stage
an Operetta or other dramatic performance.

The problem of making the stage mobile was
solved by designing an undercarriage mounted on
212 pneumatic-tired wheels. The stage, finally
constructed, is a sort of mechanical leviathan on
wheels. Complete with dressing rooms, it weighs,
when empty, about 160 tons. Mounted on a steel
frame, it has walls of press-
wood and is floored with

It would take an immense cast to crowd this

stage of the New York

Hippodrome, common-
ly referred to when large stage dimensions are
under discussion, measures only 55 feet front and
45 feet deep.

One large tractor can pull the huge stage across
the 500 feet of stadium in something less than a
half hour. Each of the stage’s 212 wheels has a
special screw adjustment whereby it can be indi-
vidually raised or lowered while the" stage is in
motion. This arrangement is necessary so that a
variation in the level of the field will not shift the
immense weight of the stage onto the support of
only a few wheels.

Audiences totaling more than 200,000 persons
attended operettas presented on the movable stage
at Randall’s Island Stadium during the 1937 sea-
son. A new electrical acoustic system makes it
possible for the audience of 8000 persons to hear
the performance as easily as if they were seated in

a small indoor theater. Such

(Continued on page 685)

movable stage at Randall's Island Stadium!

 

 

 

 

l/VITH THE AMERICAN MUNICIPAL ASSOCIATION 671

With the American Municipal
Association

HE AMERICAN MUNICIPAL ASSOCIATION at its

fourteenth annual convention in October, 1937,
passed several resolutions that are of special in—
terest to readers of RECREATION.

In 1935 the National Resources Committee, in
response to numerous requests, appointed an Ur-
ban Committee to investigate the role of Ameri-
can urban communities in the economy of the
nation. That Committee filed in 1937 its report
entitled “Our Cities—Their Role in the National
Economy.” The American Municipal Association
urges upon the President and the Congress of the
United States the immediate drafting and enact-
ment of legislation to implement the recommen-
dations of the report of the Urban Committee.
Such legislation would call for:

1. Establishment by the Federal Government of a
division or section of urban information which
would serve as a central depository and clear-
ing house of all information about urban com-
munities now collected by all governmental

agencies on all levels and by authoritative
private organizations.

2. The establishment by the Federal Government
of a division or section of urban research which
would perform for urban communities func—
tions comparative to those now performed for
rural communities by the Department of
Agriculture.

The Association also offered resolutions of ap-
preciation to the United States Office of Educa-
tion and to the Advisory Committee on Education
for making possible present training Opportuni-
ties and urged the continuation of such construc-
tive leadership in this field. This reference was
to provisions of the George-Deen Act, passed in
1936 and implemented by appropriations in 1937,
providing $12,000,000 for vocational education
in the fields of agriculture, trades.and industries,
home economics, the distributive occupations and
for the training of teachers in these various fields.
Practically every state in the Union has initiated
such training programs as funds have become
available.

One of the objectives of the American Mu-
nicipal Association and the State Leagues of Mu-
nicipalities is to raise the standards of municipal
administration. Therefore the Association urges
the selection of the most competent workers
available for municipal administration, entrance
into the service and promotion therein being based

With the American Shore and

Beach Preservation Association

THE EVER INCREASING popularity of beach rec-
reation requires the establishment of more
large state and federal beach playgrounds such as
Jones Beach along our ocean, gulf and lake shores,
according to speakers who addressed the mid-
year meeting of the American Shore and Beach
Preservation Association, held in September in
Chicago.

Some significant developments were cited. The
Chicago Regional Planning Association has rec—
ommended the joint acquisition by Illinois, Wis-
consin and the Federal Government of from three
to twelve miles of beach front on Lake Michigan,
about forty miles north of Chicago, and about the
same distance south of Milwaukee. The construc-
tion of such a park with adequate facilities would,
it is believed, serve both these large cities and re
lieve the strain on the highly residential shore
suburbs just north of Chicago. George T. Dono-
ghue, general superintendent of the Chicago Park
District, stated that the Park District hopes to
secure the entire Chicago lake front in public
ownership and eventually to convert it into beach
for its entire length, with the exception of chan-
nel openings to yacht harbors and lagoons.

J. Spencer Smith, president of the Association,
discussed America’s shore fronts as a common
heritage and as a recreational asset belonging to
the whole nation and not merely to those citizens
or communities who held title at the waterfront.
He said: “The communities or people directly en-
joying the riparian rights are essentially trustees
and their actions and attitudes should be those of
trustees. Our waterfronts are a common heritage
and are a part of all the land and not just of that
portion to which they are attached. If this be so
then the people occupying all the land have an in-
herent right to these shore fronts. Our vision
must be enlarged if we are to understand and
avail ourselves of the many benefits nature has
blessed us with. We cannot afford to be narrow
in our outlook or we will deny to ourselves and
our neighbors some of the choicest fruits of our
present day civilization.”

 

 

solely upon merit. The Association insists that if
municipalities are to attract and hold the most
competent personnel the executives and legisla—
tive officials of the United States should give fa-

( Continued on page 685)

You Asked for it!

Question: We have had great difficulty in our
swimming pool program, and we have been work-
ing on the plan of two admission fees—one for
adults and one for children—in defining what is
meant by “children.” Our difficulty lies in the
fact that no matter what definition we set up

there are always individuals who attempt to get ‘

by on the cheaper rate. How can this difficulty
be met?

Answer: In the municipal swimming pools in
Birmingham we have nothing to say about age.
We paint a line on the wall of the entrance lobby
in all bathhouses where it can be plainly seen by
the cashier, and where there is- a question he has
the persons stand against the wall. If they are
beldw this line we call them children and admit
them at children’s prices. If they are taller they
pay the adult price. It has eliminated all argu—
ments; one is either over or under.

Of course, you have the.problem of the over—
developed child to consider, but when you do not
state anything about ages that is not very serious.
We consulted our local Board of Health and their
statistics showed that a twelve year old boy and
a thirteen year old girl, under normal conditions,
averaged sixty inches in height. we have adopted
that standard as our dividing line. Any child
under sixty inches is admitted at children’s price
and any person over sixty inches pays the adult
admission. It proves very satisfactory here and
may be of help to some city facing the same prob-
lem.— From R. S. jlfars/zall, Superintendent of
Parks and Recreation, Birmingham, Alabama.

Note: RECREATION will be very glad indeed to

receive comments on Mr. Marshall’s plan and to-

know of the experience of other cities in meeting
this problem.

Question: VVeek—ends at our college appear to
be the time. for girls to leave Friday afternoon
and arrive back Monday morning. I feel that if
we had a recreation program planned ahead we
would benefit greatly. What have you to suggest?
—From a State Teachers College in Massachusetts.

Answer: The most important step in intiating
a program of recreation is to discover the real
recreational interests of the girls. Otherwise, no
matter how varied a program you offer it will not
be successful. The problem of providing recrea—

672

Vii-“"3!

tional opportunities for both men and women
should be given consideration in any pr0grani for
girls of college age. Co-recreational activities need
not be limited to parties and dances, but if a pro-
gram is to be really satisfactory for the girls it
should provide ample opportunities for associa—
tion with young men.

At'a meeting of the American Physical Educa-
tion Association held in New York there was an
interesting discussion on the subject of co-recrea-
tion in schools, colleges and universities. In an—
swer to the first question asked,' “How did you
start your co-recreation program?” a number of
suggestions were offered. At one college the pro—
gram started with a folk dancing class to which
each girl was asked to invite a young man. The
girls demonstrated the dances and then the 'entire
group took part. In another educational institu-
tion girls were allowed to entertain young men at
the physical education building on certain eve-
nings during the week. Ping-pong and other table
and floor games were played. At still another
college the girls were allowed to invite their
young men friends to a mixed swimming party.
After the swim mixed groups played Badminton
and other games. A tennis tournament in mixed
doubles was the means of starting co—recreation
activities in one school. At a junior high school
co-recreation clubs were organized in deck tennis,
archery and ping-pong.

In answer to the question, “\Vhat activities ap-
peal to mixed groups?” a number of suggestions
were offered. Tennis, volley ball, Badminton,
ping-pong, golf, archery, horseback riding, horse:
shoe pitching, skating, bowling—in fact, practi—
cally any activity not involving physical contact——
was recommended. The report of one college
showed that one of the most popular activities was
winter sports, including indoor skating, tobog-

- ganing and skiing. One delegate stated that a.

study of fifteen clubs showed that many programs
for mixed groups were being sponsored by student
organizations, and the range of activities was
practically unlimited. Picnics, canoeing and rid-
ing were unusually popular.

In Partners in Play, published by the National
Recreation Association, suggestions are offered

(Continued on page 685)

WORLD AT PLAY

WITH the construc—
tion of a new school
building, school au-
. thorities of Glencoe,
Minnesota, with assistance from WPA and N YA,
devised a plan for providing a recreation area.
Adjacent to the site of the school was an un—

A Skating Rink for
Glencoe

sightly ravine and gully cutting across the city. -

With the excavation of the new school plant an
additional big cut. of dirt was made and hauled
into the ravine, leveling it-off completely. The
ground was properly dished for holding water
and adequately tiled, leaving two top surface man—
holes for draining the grounds. The area was a
block by half a block in size. The manholes were
plugged and the field was wetted down with the
first good freezing weather. Before Christmas
there was ice to the depth of six inches. Hot wa-
ter was used successfully to fill in cracks and
rough places in the ice. A large warming house

' was built on wheels so that it could be hauled out

to the football field in the fall for use as a dress—
ing hut. Electric lights on twelve high poles
lighted the rink during evening hours.

 

BY the will of the late
George Horace Lorpi-
mer, retired editor of
the Saturday Evening
Post, 500 acres stretching along both banks of
Pennypack Creek in Abington Township were
left to Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, for use
as a park.

A New Park
Created

———-—————-———-- THE Camden County,
The Camden County New Jersey, Park

mmis ion - - '
Park CO  _ Commiss10n has issued

in book form a report
of its work from November 1926 to January 1937.
The report is an outstanding record of the de-
velopment of a comprehensive county park sys-

tem. The book, which is beautifully illustrated

with park scenes, is particularly interesting in
showing the extent to which citizens have had a
part in initiating and guiding the development.
The appointment of the commission and the de-
velopment of the park system grew out of the
efforts of the Camden County Park Association,
, a group of prominent public-spirited citizens. A

number of these leaders were appointed to the
original official commission. Another item of in-

' terest is the extent to which the park System has

benefited from gifts of land. A list of 114 in-

dividuals and groups who have donated land is
included in the report.

FOR the past two
years the Bureau of
Recreation, Board of
Public Works, Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania, in cooperation with the
Pittsburgh Playground Society, the Community
Fund and the National Council of Jewish Women,
has sponsored toyeries where children may bor-
row toys once a week. There are now five such
toyeries in different sections of the city, and hun-
dreds of children come to these centers every Sat-
urday morning to return and borrow toys.

Toyeries for
Pittsburgh

——......_

THE voters in Can-
ton, Ohio, in a recent
election renewed the
tax levy for the local
recreation program. Only a 65 per cent majority
of the votes cast was required to carry the mea-
sure, but the citizens showed their faith in the
recreation program by a 71 per cent favorable
vote. At Cleveland Heights, Ohio, the school levy
passed carrying with it a commitment of the local
school board to support the recreation program,
especially for the summer playground and other
activities which serve primarily children and
young people.

Voters Favor
Recreation

-—__—

 

THE second annual
State Conference on
Public Recreation
sponsored by the Ad-
visory Committee on New Jersey Public Recrea—
tion was held October 20th in Trenton, New Jer—
sey. The conference was based on the question,
“How Can Public Recreation Serve and Meet the
Needs of New Jersey?” The morning session con-
sidered public recreation from a number of an-
gles, as “A Necessary Department in Municipal
Government,” “A Factor in the Readjustment of
the Individual,” and “A Factor in the Prevention
of Anti-Social Behavior.” In the afternoon the

673

A State Conference on
Public Recreation

674

president of the Printing Pressmen’s and Assist-
ants’ Union of Newark, New Jersey, spoke on
“Public Recreation and Its Relation to Labor.”
There followed a symposium of six speakers con-
sidering “Recreation—For Youth Agencies,” “For
Women’s Organizations,” “For Parent—Teacher
Associations,” “For Rural Groups,” “For Educa-
tional Groups” and “For Colored Groups.” “Ob-
jectives of State, County and Community Recrea-
tion” were also. discussed by a member of the staff

of the National Recreation Association. The din-.

ner session included an address of welcome by the
Governor of New Jersey, a talk on “The State of
New Jersey and Public Recreation” by the Con-
sultant Director of the New Jersey State Plan-
ning Board and a talk on “Public Recreation, Its
Place in American Life Today” by a staff mem-
ber of the National Recreation Association.

Winter Activities in Akron—The Depart-
ment of Recreation of Akron, Ohio, reports
through the Recreation Resumé that the fourteen
winter recreation centers in operation have a total
registration this year far exceeding that of last
year. Activities include athleties, dramatics, art,
quiet games, instruction in social and tap dancing
and in sewing, woodworking and similar crafts.
The average attendance per center per night is
approximately 400 boys and girls. Adult groups
are also using rooms for forums, music and social
recreation.

Reduced Rates for Golf—Each year starting
November Ist residents of Union County, New
.Jersey, may play golf at Galloping Hill for 50
cents any day of the week; out-of—town players
are required to pay double this amount. On each
fair Sunday and holiday during November be-
tween 200 and 300 persons used the course. All
the facilities at the club house with the exception
of the restaurant are made available for the use
of the golfers.

Physical Training in Great Britain—Acord-
ing to a summary of the report of the British
Board of Education appearing in the London
Times, increasing attention is being given to pro-
vision of greater playground space for outdoor
physical exercises and of playing fields for or-
ganized games, especially for the older children.
During the nine months ended December 31, 1936,
the additional acreage of land acquired by local
education authorities for these purposes was

WORLD AT PLAY

greater than that in either of the two preceding
financial years. Other means of promoting health
and physical development included camp schools
and holiday camps. The growth of the camp
movement is indicated by figures showing that the
amount expended upon it by local education au-
thorities had grown from over £3I,000 in 1933-34
to an estimated sum of £50,700 for 1935-36.

A Recreation Association of Government
Employees—Employees of the Department of
the Interior and affiliated agencies have organized
under the name of “Interior Department Recrea-
tion Association” for the purpose of promoting
and encouraging “social and athletic activity to the
end that there may exist between the employees
of the department a feeling of good fellowship
and a realization of their common interests and
purpose.” Membership fees of $1.00 entitle em-
ployees to all the privileges and advantages offer-
ed by the association which include recreational
opportunities of many types. A mimeographed
monthly publication known as the I .D.R.A . News
carries information regarding developments and

news of interest to members.

San Francisco Holds a Hobby Show—San
Francisco’s first annual community hobby show,
conducted under the auspices of the Recreation
Commission from November 14th through the
zIst at the Museum of Art, was of a strictly ama-
teur nature with no commercial exhibits. There
were no registration or admission fees. Initiated
by a proclamation of Mayor Rossi, all San Fran-
ciscans and their friends were invited to partici-
pate. The splendid spirit of cooperation engen-
dered resulted in the participation of the Museum
of Art, the School Department, the Public Li-
brary, many social and civic groups and well-
known hobbyists. Helen Wills Moody designed
the official posters. The preview held for ex-
hibitors and their friends on November 14th at-
tracted 1,026 people, while the final afternoon’s
count was recorded as 1,823. The space granted

for hobby show purposes by the museum included I

the beautiful central court and the adjoining cor-
ridor. Sixty-five types of representative hobby
interests were given space. Only fractions of large
exhibits could be accepted and it was necessary
to decline many exhibits because of lack of space.

Four “finest in the world” collections were ex- {I
hibited. Subjects included rare and fine book-9

bindings, natural history, models, needlecraft,

r

g

WORLD AT PLAY

weaving and varied collections. Daily demonstra-
tions in arts, and crafts gave vitality to exhibits
and proved a valuable feature.

Flower Show Draws Crowd — More than
17,000 people visited the annual Chrysanthemum
and begonia show conducted by the Horticultural
Department in the greenhouses at Branch Brook
Park of the Essex County Park Commission. The
Recreation Department of the Commission was
among the non-commercial exhibitors in the
“fair” conducted by the Physical Education De-
partment of the New Jersey State Teachers’ As-
sociation at the thirty-eighth annual convention
held in Atlantic City in November.

Leisure for Townspeople—From VVar‘saw,
Poland, comes a booklet, “Leisure for Townspeo-
ple,” published by the Institute for Social Prob-
lems. The author has listed the following forms
of recreational activities: organization of health
camps and excursions; facilities for week—end
outings; city planning connected with the prob—
lems of recreation; allotments; the relationship
of housing problems to the use of leisure; art in
the home; handicrafts; education in art and
music; intellectual and moral education; physical
training, and recreation for children. He cites
the following as fundamental: (1) a common
plan linking together recreational agencies work-
ing on individual lines; (2) the adaptation of lei—
sure facilities to the needs of individuals and of
social groups; (3) the participation of workers
and employees in recreational planning and or-

ganization, and (4) suitable and qualified leader-
ship.

Street Play Fatal to Children—According to
the September 1937 News Letter of the Michigan
Juvenile Delinquency Information Service, chil-
dren playing in the street contributed 1,410 or 8.7
per cent of the 16,160 pedestrians killed by auto—
mobiles in the United States in 1936 and 41,940
or 14.3 per cent of the 293,350 pedestrians injured.

A Playground in Athens—Kaissariani Play-
ground in Athens, Greece, is meeting a real need.
Operated under the supervision of the minister of
physical education, it was first organized by the
Near East Foundation as a part of its demonstra—
tion program in child and community welfare ac-
tivities. It is the only playground in the country
adequately equipped and properly organized as a

675

VOIT SOFT BALL

  
 
 
    
   
   

C-R-A—C-K !

. . The speed
camera catches
the crushing im-
pact as slugging
bat flattens on-
coming ball. This
happens every
time a soft ball is
batted. No won-
der ordinary soft
balls lose their
s h a p e . b r e a k
stitches, open
seams, split cov-
ers! Read why the
Voit stitch-less.
seam'ess soft ball,
with its one-piece
composition cover
permanently vul-
canized to the
center, goes "back
to round" in-
stantly—outwears

       
     
 

 i . v
as
v

 i ii»
@1103!”

e
., I  '1,  xv
. ' ,mu-Zugm ‘ I
,  _ s, __f , Kriwaw
,- g 4 "*1 ' 'ot "- ..

(5 0’
1“ “at
9" .v
V 1:. 4  ‘5' ‘
. it I
3.9,

'i;

   

Official in very Respect

You'll agree-u-it's the perfect Soft Balli
Its smooth—grained one-piece compo-
sition cover, scientifically treated to
insure correct rebound, has no stitches
to rip, wear or tear out. And, since
the seams are only reproduced. the
ball is tougher, longer wearing. Cover.
being vulcanized to the cemented
center by an exclusive VOIT process,
is a permanent part of the ball—
cover-and-center become virtually a
one-piece unit that cannot loosen.
stretch, or slip. Comes in three cen-
ters: All-Kapok, Cork-and-Wool, Kapok-
and-Wool. Pure white, perfect for
night play. Washable. Weather-and-

waterproof--will neither take on nor
lose weight, crack, dry out, or harden.

Write Dept. R for New Catalog.

any horsehide
made. outperforms
all other softballs!

W. J. VUIT RUBBER EURP.

    

 

model field where hundreds of children and young
people may enjoy outdoor games. The director of
physical education is very enthusiastic about the
project and efforts are being made to open up
similar playgrounds in other sections of the
country.

Hobby Riders—A North Carolina newspaper
reports that after questioning 2,106 high school
students, Dr. George E. Davis of the University
of Iowa has concluded that a person with several
hobbies is smarter than those with none. Dr.
Davis found that smarter pupils tend to have a
greater number of hobbies than those with less
intelligence.

A New Home for a Detroit Settlement—
Franklin Street Settlement of Detroit, Michigan,
after Fifty—seven years of service is building a new
$200,000 home on a site donated by Mr..and Mrs.
Edsel Ford. The settlement will have not only
facilities for its regular work but also living quar—
ters for resident students who are working for
advanced degrees in social work. The grounds of
the two story building will provide all facilities

"  ~13.  '33;
notify
—ot Lowest Prices.I

Make your own Beaded Bags, Belts, Bracelets, Necklaces, Clips,
Hat-Plate Mats, Coasters, Wall Plocques, etc. The new, eo'sy-to-
follow, Walco Instruction and Design Booklets are available
at l0c per copy. Send for them NOW and get Sample Cards

of Actual Beads fREE.
C] WOOD BEADCRAFT El TILE BEADCRAFT
D CUBE BEADCRAFT

El INDIAN BEADCRAFT

Check the Beodcrofts in which you are interested and send 10c
f h In truction and Design Booklet desired (Bead samples
igzluii:%)—oi if you prefer, send for our fREE LITERATURE de-
scribing the various Beodcrofts.

WALCO BEAD CO. DEPT. TR-8 37W. 37TH ST..N.Y.C.
EDUCATLQNAI. ' USEFUL ‘P-FASC‘INAT'NG

  
 

   
      
       
     
   
    

necessary for a modern community program. In
one wing there will be a fully equipped gym-
nasium and bowling alley. Another will be oc-
cupied by the auditorium with a connecting
kitchen and service rooms. On the ground floor
there will be club and game rooms and classrooms
for metal work, wood carving, sewing, cooking
and laundry work. On the second floor a com-
pletely equipped nursery and nursery school will
care for preschool age boys and girls, and living
quarters will be provided for six staff members
as well as ten resident students. Today the work

 

A Handbook ‘of Private Schools

2I51L Edition' May I937. I I84 pages,
4000 schools, 250 illustrations, l4
maps, round corners, silk cloth, $6.00

STRUTHERS BURT in the December Forum and
Centuryw—“As to the accredited upper class, if you
wish to End out more about its secondary education,
you can do no better than to read Sargent’s Hand-
book of Private Schools; let edition. This is as
necessary to the well-to-do parent as a marriage cer-
tificate. . . . A mine of pergnant quotations.”

UPTON SINCLAIR, Pasadena, California—“I went
through your book with great amusemnt. It seems to
me one of the most picturesque things in America.”

MARGARET MEAD, Bajoeng Cede, Bali, Netherlands
Indies—~“I can think of no better way of measuring
the changes which have occurred in educational
thought sinceleaving the United States, almost two
years ago, than a glimpse into your Handbook.”

A BRIEF SCHOOL GUIDE

Lists the more important Boarding Schools and'Iunior
Colleges. 2d Edition. 1937, 132 pages. 700 schools.
14 maps. 97 illustrations. cover in color.
Single copy 25 cents.

THE SUMMER CAMP GUIDE

A Guide to the 400 better private camps ior boys and
girls. 2d Edition. 1937. 96 pages. 8 maps. 82 illus-
trations. cover in color. Single copy 25 cents.

Write for Table of Contents.

PORTER SARGENT
BOSTON. MASS.

ll BEACON STREET

 

W'ORLD AT PLAY

of the settlement is divided into three main di-
visions—the day nursery, the summer camp, and
group and club work. ‘

New Municipally Owned Auditoriums-—
Forty-eight cities ranging in size from Primrose,
Nebraska, with a population of 210, to Kansas
City, Missouri, with its population of almost
400,000, built municipal auditoriums in 1936 or
1937 with the assistance of PWA grants, accord-
ing to an article in the September issue of Public
Management. Only twelve of these cities are over
10,000 and seventeen have less than 1,000 popula-
tion. The article, entitled “New Municipally
Owned Auditoriums,” describes the facilities pro-
vided and gives information regarding manage—
ment, financial policy, rate policies and rates. The
article states .that municipal auditoriums are re-
garded in many cities as essential civic undertak-
ings and not as revenue-producing enterprises.
“In fact, in many cities no attempt is made to
make the auditorium pay its way; some oflicials
hold that a public building which is attractive and
frequently used as the social, recreational, civic
and cultural center of the town should be sup-
ported, in part at least, from tax funds.”

The Hiking Year—The Municipal Hiking
Club sponsored by the Recreation Department of
the Minneapolis Park Board is to be congratulated
on its sixteenth Year Book, an unusually attrac-
tive issue. The Club’s activities for each month
of the year are recorded. Delightful pictures ac-
companying each month’s events will recall happy
memories to the campers long after the trips
themselves are past history.

The Amusement: Industry
(Continued from page 642) -

shows that such expenditures are once again on
an upward trend.

Total receipts of all amusement places or
$699,031,000 in the latter year, compare with
$530,218,000, in the former, or an increase of 34
per cent; total cost of production in the motion
picture industry has already been shown to have
increased in these two years 57 per cent and the
value of radio production 65 per cent. During the
past year, comparable statistics are not available

A.

but the internal revenue receipts on theater and i

other admissions showed, for the fiscal year 1936,

an increase of II per cent over those of the fiscal 

fl
{L
r I

MODEL PLAYGROUNDS FOR CLEVELAND 677

year 1935, and sales of radio sets increased 40
. per cent.

Further expansion in public expenditures would
appear assured as national income increases, with
a corresponding growth in the amusement in-
dustry, for motion pictures, the radio and more
general forms' of commercial entertainment have
wen a place in our national life fr0m which the
experience of the depression indicates they cannot
easily be dislodged. Greater leisure for wage earn—
ers under the impetus of the current movement
for shorter working hours, moreover, should serve

to increase still more the popular demand for
amusements.

 

Model Playgrounds for Cleveland

(Continued from page 647.)
was done by private contract, the Foundation em-

ploying the contractor directly.

These model playgrounds have already proved
of distinct value—educationally at least—to the
community. While not large they were built to
serve as demonstrations of what Cleveland’s play-
grounds could be and as indicating what should be
done when capital account funds are made avail-
, able for recreational purposes. City officials and
many interested organizations and individuals, it
is believed, have been convinced of the demon-
stration value of these playgrounds and of the
need for similar improvements in other sections
of the city. The next step, of course, is the pro-
curing of funds .for development of additional
playgrounds as well as the reconstruction of ex—
isting grounds. The city has already developed
excellent plans for several sites.

Time alone will establish the future value of the
Cleveland Foundation’s gifts to the city of Cleve—
land. Meanwhile there must be a continuation of
competent leadership on the demonstration proj-
ects so that they _may serve the public efficiently,
and effectively point the way to more adequate
provision for the recreational needs of the city’s
children and youth.

Fair Play, in Football and So On

(Continued from page 648)

itself to smallersquads, taking great pride in play-
ing ‘eleven men of iron.’ ”

To not a syllable of which'did I object, nor am
I objecting now, for I think that what my friend
said probably is true. But it quite missed my point,
which has to do with sportsmanship—a mightily

   

HOW TO ORGANIZE ,
AND PROMOTE a '
HORSESHOE CLUB l

  
 

  

EAGLE

RINGER
(Patented)

WRITE FOR FREE
BOOKLET

Horseshoe Pitching is a game that appeals
to everyone interested in playgrounds. Get
your free copy of “How to Organize a Horse-
shoe Club” and see how handily the game is
adapted to your requirements.

The Diamond line of Pitching Horseshoes
and accessories includes everything needed
in promoting the game. Ask for catalog and
rule books when you write.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand liveu Duluth. Minn.

      

\

important element in education all along the line,
from the cradle to the grave. The difference be-
tween sport and war lies exactly there. Aside from
its characteristic concrete horrors and indecencies,
the principal demoralization of war and its tech-
niques takes place in the characters of the partici—
pants and of the peoples behind them. The shrewd
difference between an officer and a gentleman is in
the fact that a typical military man (of any a1-
legiance, “civilized” or savage) will glory in and
hail as a “victory”. the annihilation of an inferior
by a superior force; an instance in which fresh
reserves are thrown in to overwhelm an exhausted
enemy. It does not occur to him to be ashamed of
it—he isn’t built or trained that way. The motto
of the war-zmaker is “victory at any price.” A
gentleman, unless hypnotized by military hocus—
pocus, scorns to accept victory on any such terms.
Nor would it be tolerated in any sport—except
football under the auspices of the “higher” edu-
cation! Try to imagine Yale or Harvard (not to
mention Oxford or Cambridge), halfway down
the course on the Thames, finding its crew or
sOme member of it exhausted and its boat a length
behind; taking “time out” to put in fresh rowers
~——-perhaps even a whole fresh crew—the result of

 

 

678 A PROGRESSIVE GAME KIT

the race depending upon which had the largest I
supply of substitutes to draw upon!

 G I Bret Harte’s immortal “Heathen Chinee,” whose 1

smile it was (naturally) childlike and bland, had

I'CSCTVCS . . .

NOW reGdY for dlstnbunc’n “In his sleeves, which were large,

Games for Quiet Hours and He had twenty-four packs!”

Small Spaces This isn’t sport; it’s playing with loaded dice;

the only possibly redeeming circumstance being

0 Here are tricks and mystery games, _ that the inevitable loser knows that they are load-
riddles and puzzles, games for two, games ed. In real sport, engaged in “for the game’s
for small groups and for larger groups, sake” by_gent1emen and scholarsm—yes, even in
and automobile games “a wealth of prize lights—effort is made to equalize the physi-
material for the recreation Worker, Club cal factors and let skill and prowess win. Substi-
1eader, teacher and (111 workers with tutions should be allowed only in case of actual

young people. disablement; at any rate reserves should be as a
‘ matter of course, as to numbers at least, on equal
terms. I shall continue to hope for the day when
present practices in this regard will be as unlaw-
N ful as mayhem in a wrestling match.

Price $.50

National Recreation Association A Progresswe Game K":
(Continued from page 652)

The game is played as in regular quoits. Ring-
ers score three points; one point is scored for each
of the two rings that lie nearest the peg. Rings
that do not touch the board are disregarded.
Twenty-one points constitute a game.

In progressive parties all four of the players

315 Fourth Avenue. New York City

Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual throw one ring each, and the nearest ring scores
one point. Then all throw again until the time is

(1937 Edition. Vol. V) up.
Pop Goes the Weasel. Groups have played this
$300 Prepaid game a whole evening—it is so exciting. Every-

one stands around a table holding a string with a
cork tied to the opposite end. The weasels (corks)
are grouped in the center of the table. One per-
son, “it,” holds a tin pan small enough so that it
may be held upside down in the palm of one hand
and a pair of dice in the other. The dice are

shaken and thrown on the table. Should seven or

0 I92 pages tilled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested
in swimming pools in any way.

° eleven turn up, the players try to yank their ,

weasels from the table before “it” can pop the '

EARL K- COLLINS: Editor pan down over them. Any player whose weasel :

425 Fourth Avenue New York, N. Y. is caught under the pan pays “it” one point. In ‘
scoring for progressive games “it” gets one point '

g for every weasel he catches, while the person '

Whose weasel is caught is docked one point. “It” .I

Make 5” Checks. money orders. efc" continues to throw the dice until seven or eleven L:

comes up. When he has attempted to catch the iii
weasel he passes the dice and tin pan to the person "
on his right who then becomes “it.” Pad the table 
h.
I

l

payable to Earl K. Collins

 

RECREATIONAL TRAINING FOR CATHOLIC INSTITUTIONS 679

 

in venous!) ‘ 
APPARATUS 

all

- ll-

 

Get this Catalog of
Safety Playground Equipment

EVERWEAR complete selection of Playground apparatus offers you

something more than durability and playability. It guarantees
SAFETY in every piece of equipment.

The 1938 EVERWEAR catalog describes the new safety swings-—

rubber encased—which take the injury element out of swings . .

safe climbing apparatus . .

. it includes a really

. and exclusive features on merry-go-rounds, slides and ladders

that make for safety. There is a reason why EVERWEAR playground equipment is found
on finest playgrounds everywhere. It is the equipment you can depend on for safety,

durability and economy.

Send for your copy of this catalog TODAY and see how EVERWEAR can fill your play-

ground needs. There is no charge. Just fill in and mail the coupon below.

Ever Wear

Manufacturing Company
SPRINGFIELDl OHIO

EVERWEAR also manufactures a complete line of
beach and pool equipment. If you. wish to have
this catalog, mark coupon.

'or use one which will not be marred by the pan.
Cootie. One dice is used for this game. Num-
ber I stands for the body, 2 for the head, 3 for
the leg, 4 for the antenna, 5 forethe eyes, 6 for the
tail. Each player is given a paper and pencil. The
players take turns in rolling the dice. When a
player rolls the I he draws an oval figure on his
paper to represent the body of‘a cootie and is en-
titled to another. roll. If he rolls a 3 (leg) or 6
(tail) he adds that part of the body to the cootie.
However, if he rolls any of these parts before he
rolls I (body) he cannot add them. Likewise, if
he rolls 5 (eyes), or 4 (antenna) before he rolls 2
(head) he cannot add them because the cootie
does not yet have a head- When the player rolls
a number that can be used in the construction of
the cootie he is entitled to another r011. One point
is scored for each part of the cootie when the
whistle blows. Two dice may be used if desired in

order to make the game move faster.

The kit contains a few commercial games, but a
number of these may be made in the recreation de-
partment workshop. Among these are the dart
game, pick-up sticks, anagrams, bean bag board
and indoor horseshoes.

,-

l
l EVERWEAR MANUFACTURING COMPANY

Springfield, Ohio (R)
I. Please send me the FREE catalog of EVERWEAR
[ playground equipment.

1

l

( ) I am also interested in beach and pool
apparatus.
I o . u . . . . . u - u . o u u . o o o u u . u . u . . . o . o . o . . . o u  . . . . . - - u u - u - . . . . . . . . . . . . o a . . u . u u . . . . - o . u
I I I I I I O I.
ll (Address)
I .........  ....................................................  ..... ..

Recreational Training for Catholic

Institutions
(Continued from page 655)

D. Expression in Art, Hobbies, Room Dec-
orations

E. Service to a Cause or for Other People

F. Team Work; Clubs

G. Spiritual Values in Camp Fires, Cere-
monials, Young PeOple’s Groups

4. Desire for Recognition

A. Opportunity to Excel

13. Opportunity to Be Alone

C. Club Membership; especially in national
groups

D. Chance to Talk, Explain, Articulate

E. Dress Individually

F. Leadership

G. Special Personal Recognition on Birth-
day, Convalescent Time, etc.

Summary

In this article an effort has been made to sug-
gest some of the colorful aspects of recreational
institutes held for workers in Catholic institu-
tions, to fix attention on the significance of such

What Our Readers Say About
School Activities

“1 think that this journal
(School Activities) is worthy
of a place in the library of
every school administrator
and should be available to
teachers everywhere."

(Signed)

LEROY E. COWLES, Dean
Unioersitiy of Utah

School ‘
Activities
we

"I find the School Activi-
ties Magazine the most valu-
able one placed upon my
desk. There are so many
practical things inside that
one may use in his own
school. I never expect to be
without it as long as I am
connected with schoolwork."

(Signed)

E. V. CORE, Principal
Union High School

Union, West Virginia

Successful educators everywhere are using
School Activities. We invite you to join this
rapidly growing group of school people who
are using this keen tool to improve their work.

Send us your subscription order immediately.
\Ve are certain School Activities will not dis-
appoint you ;——if it does, just cancel your sub-
scription after you receive the first issue.

Subscription Price $2.00

School Activities Pub. Co.
1515 Lane Street

Topeka, Kansas

courses, to tell how they are organized, and briefly
to describe their content. The utilization of such
institutes by Catholic authorities is important rec-
ognition of theyalues in planned recreation in in-
stitutional management.

“The Catholic Church,” says Miss Barnes,
“realizes that its institutions must offer training in
leisure time pursuits as well as religious and aca-
demic knowledge. Milwaukee, Green Bay and
Riverdale have set splendid examples to be fol-
lowed by other groups.”

Map Making For Community Study

( Continued from page 656)

tray bottom, but the clay hardened so rapidly that
it was necessary to measure downward from
strings stretched at the level of the top of the tray.
As soon as the clay base was finished, the entire
surface was covered with vaseline, partly to hold
the moisture and partly to keep the paper next to
be applied from sticking.

Strips of newspapers dipped in a pail of cold

 

MAP MAKING FOR COMMUNITY STUDY

water paste were laid on. These strips were
somewhat larger than the half-inch by four inch
strips recommended for mask making, but it must
be kept in mind that the boys were working on a
large area. Where the features of the city were
abrupt, as on the banks of the river, shorter strips
were used, but on the flat areas strips one foot
long by one inch wide were quite satisfactory.
Six to ten layers of paper were applied on the
four maps made to date. When thoroughly dry
the paper mat was lifted off the clay base forming
a light, sturdy, shell-like relief map. After smooth-
ing the t0p layer by using fine sandpaper the
whole surface was painted with a Hat paint. The
boys then painted the outstanding landmarks in
color. The river, creeks and swamp areas were
marked in, the main highways and streets were in-
dicated, and all park areas were colored. Because
the school buildings played such an important part
in the problems to be considered, small models
were carved from ivory soap and fastened in
place with glue. On one map white pine blocks
were used, but we found that architectural detail
was not as easily obtained with these as with the
soap. The schools were then colored to resemble
the originals.

The maps, when completed, were from twelve
to twenty pounds, but eight to ten pounds of this
weight are in the wooden frame cut from three-
quarter inch cypress and braced by some of the
irregular left-over strips.

To test the rigidity of the map shells a 75
pound weight was placed on the six layer shell,
bridging two bills. This weight had no effect on
the shell. Additional maps were made by putting
more vaseline on the cast and adding layers of
paper as in the first process.

No sooner did the maps begin to take shape
than many requests came in for them. The Kala-
mazoo Chamber of Commerce, the Y.M.C.A., the
Recreation Council, the Civic League and the
Council of Social Agencies have all seen the pos-
sibility in studying local problems of using such a
portrayal of spatial relationships of places and
people in Kalamazoo, and have ordered maps.

The Idea Spreads

The project has had great value in giving boys
and girls an opportunity to do real creative work,
and the idea is spreading so rapidly that other
boys and girls are being offered this medium for
self-expression. The principal of one elementary
school has asked to borrow the metal tray and clay

g
l

l

l

's'
l

USE OF RADIO [N THE LOCAL RECREATION PROGRAM 681

so that the children may mold a base and make
maps of their district. Streets will be about one
inch wide and each child will be able to prepare a
soap model of his own home. Vacant lots and
recreational facilities will be marked on the map.
The principal of the school plans to mark the
houses where there is a communicable disease.
This particular district offers an unusually inter—
esting project because severi—eighths of the dis—
trict is outside the political district of the city but
in the school district. We believe that the project,
widely used, cannot fail to lead to an awareness
of common community problems. '

Use at Radio in the Local Recreation

Program
(Continued from page 659)
what overworked it is still one of the best
mediums.

6. Local interest is coming to be recognized as
more important for education than national
interest.

7. Programs must be followed by some‘litera-
turc which will provide a continuing interest—
something to do.

8. Simple crafts work has been successfully

guided in the homes—nature study, folk ways,'

etc., are effective.

Social Opportunity through Community

Planning
(Continued from page 662)

Present Developments

Facilities for shuffleboard and modified bowling
are being planned in one of the basement rooms
of the center. The recent acquisition of beautiful
costume plates and models of Pennsylvania his-
torical buildings from the Museum Extension Di-
vision of the Works Progress Administration has
made possible the establishment of an interesting
museum exhibit. Puppets and marionettes have
also been received from the WPA, making pos-
sible the development of puppet and marionette
troupes and entertainments.

Matching the acquisition of these material fa—
cilities, equipment and exhibits is the increased
use of the center by various local groups and or-
ganizations as a place of meeting. The center is
more than a building. It is becoming the center
of numerous activities as well as the center from
which other community activities radiate.

 

 

 

 

CHARACTER

O CHARACTER Magazine now offers in pam-
phlet form reprints of two of its most out-
standing series of articles:

(I) "FOURTEEN PRINCIPLES OF CHILD
GUIDANCE.’l by Dr. K. L. Heaton of
the Michigan State Department of

Public Instruction.

Schools are ordering copies of these article
reprints by 10_0, 200, and 300 lots so that all
their teachers may have the benefit-of using
this manual. Our special prices make such
ordering practical.

(2) "SCHOOLS AND DELINQUENCY." by
V. H. Evien. United States Probation
Otticer.

These pamphlets are not only valuable ma-
terial, but will be interesting additions to your
library. Order them for all your teachers.

With a one year subscription to CHARACTER

we are offering both of these valuable pam-

at the price of the magazine sub-
. $l.50.

phlets . . .

scription alone . .

CHARACTER . . 1 Yr.. . . $1.50
(plus two pamphlets)

2 Yrs. . . $2.50

Pamphlet (1) . . .

single copy. 15c

10-25 copies. 10c each
25-100 copies. 8c each
100 or more. 7c each

Pamphlet (2) . . .

single copy. 25c
5 copies. 20c each
10 or more. 15¢ each

Send your orders to

CHARACTER MAGAZINE

5732 Harper Avenue Chicago. Illinois

682 LIGHTING OF OUTDOOR RECREATION FACILITIES

 

Send Only $1.00 For A

FIVE MONTHS
TRIAL OFFER

SEND ONLY ONE DOLLAR

and yOu will receive practical ideas
worth ten times this small amount.

 

Have you ever longed for some unusual, new
and stimulating creative material that you would
he tremendously enthusiastic about? Well . . .
JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES is just crammed from
cover to cover with just that kind of helpful

material.

“Fe want YOU to have the advantage of this
work, and that’s why we are making this “special
get acquainted offer” . . . Send only one dollar and
we will put your name on our mailing list to re—
ceive five big isSues—February to June.

The only publication for teachers ‘
containing so much actual crea-
tive material and ideas for class—
work in elementary grades.

 

JUNIOR ARTS
and 

740 RUSH STREET

CHICAGO. ILL.

 

Cooperation

The interest and cooperation of the members
of the Borough Council and bank officials in pro—
viding facilities for a community center are the
basis upon which citizens have been able to de-
velop a community program. Of equal signifi—
cance is the fact that the members of the Board of
Education feel that school facilities and services
should be made available to all citizens.

Paid leadership for supervising program ac-
tivities at the center and playgrounds, made avail-
able through the Division of Recreation and
Adult Education of the WPA, has also been an
important factor in the success of the program.
Valuable assistance has also been given by youth
whose services have been made available through
the National Youth Administration.

Possibly the most essential element in the suc-
cess of the venture has been the public—spirited
manner in which citizens of the community give
of their time, money and effort to provide a
wholesome program of leisure-time activities for
their fellow citizens.

Beautification by Cooperation

(Continued from page 664)
scale. Following a suggested plan, residents con—
centrated on the planting of azaleas, camellias and
crepe myrtle. Within two years Port Arthur had
abandoned the appearance of a typical industrial
community to become known as a city of roses
and flowers.

Lighting of Outdoor Recreation
Facilities
( Continued from page 666)
facilities. Three of these agencies meet all of their
lighting costs in this way, four meet 50 per cent
of their costs and one agency meets 25 per cent.
The fees charged and the methods of charging for
different facilities are as follows:

1. Softball. Seventeen agencies report partici—
pation fees for softball. Three methods of charg—
ing are in operation: (1) team entry or member-
ship fees, (2) hourly rates and (3) flat rates per
game. Membership or entry fees reported range
between $5 and $10. The hourly rates reported
were $.80 and $1.00. The only flat rate reported
was $1.50 per game. '

2. Tennis. Seventeen agencies charge for ten—
nis. Twelve of these agencies reported the fol-
lowing rates:

Rate N a. of Agencies
$.20 an hour . . . . . .. 1
.25 an hour . . . . . . . 6
.25 for 40 minutes. . 1
.40 an hour . . . . . .. 1
.50 an hour . . . . . . . 3
Average rate $.29 an hour . . . . . .. 12

3. Swimming. Charges for swimming are levied
by seven agencies. These charges vary between
$.10 and $.25 per person.

4. Football. Six agencies report participation
fees for football. Two agencies charge hourly
rates of $1.00mand $.50. One agency charges $1.00
per game, and another charges 25 per cent of the
gross income derived from the game. The other
two agencies failed to indicate their method of
charging.

5. Baseball. Of the four agencies charging for
baseball, one charges $1.00 per game or $.50 an
hour and another charges 25 per cent of the gross
income.

6. Basketball and Bowling. One agency reports
participation fees for bowling and another for
basketball.

7. Stadiums. Three agencies charge participa—

 

| On January 9, 1938, Ellen M. Tower, who
helped in starting the sand garden work for chil—
dren in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1885, died at
l her home in Lexington, Massachusetts. She was
in her ninetieth year.

A number of years ago Miss Tower presented
to the town of Lexington, Massachusetts, the park
which now bears her name. In the year 1927
Joseph Lee was toastmaster at a special dinner
given in honor of Ellen Tower to recognize her
services to the recreation movement.

U

 

tion fees for the use of their stadiums when ad-
mission fees are collected by the using teams.

Admission Fees. Forty-three or 31 per cent of
the agencies reporting lighted facilities charge ad-
mission fees. Five agencies meet 100 per cent of
the cost in this manner, three meet 50 per cent and
one meets 25 per cent.

| Fourteen agencies charge admission fees, for
softball, six for football, five for swimming, four
for baseball and one charges for basketball. One
agency charges admission fees for entertainments
in an outdoor theater. The other twelve agencies
failed to indicate the facilities for which admis-
sion fees are charged.

Admission fees for softball range between $.05
and $.15 per person with six of the nine agencies
charging $.10. Football fees range between $.25
and $.50 per person. Baseball fees range between
$.10 and $.25, and $.15 per person is charged by

( C antian on next page)

' ' MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 683
i
I

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles 1
of Interest to the Recreation Worlter

 
  

   
   

  

MAGAZINES

The Camping Magazine, January 1938
All-Year-Round Use of Our Summer Camps,
by Harold M. Gore

College Camping Courses, by Charles B. Frasher

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
January 1938

The Significance of Physical Education in Modern
Life, by Blanche M. Trilling

Trends in Health and Physical Education, by Helen
Norman Smith

Outing Activities at Middlebury College, by Marion
L. Young

Indoor Group Golf Instruction, by Leonore K. Alway
Water Polo for Girls

New Gymnasium “Scooter” Activities and Games

The American City, December 1937
Louisville Plans Riverfront Development,
by H. W. Alexander

New Jersey WPA Converts City Dump Into a Park
A Beautiful Yet Practical Bandstand in Canton, Ill.

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
December 1937

Physical Education and Adult Education, by Harry
Woodburn Chase

Sports in the U. S. S. R., by Percy M. Dawson, M.D.
Playdays in a High School, by Margaret Clapsaddle

Leisure, December 1937
Homemade Wreaths for Christmas, by J. A. Emmett
Hobby Councils Stimulate Interest, by John E. Hubel
Creative Art Projects for the Novice, by Agnes
Ch-oate Wonson '

Different Christmas Cards, by Dorothy G. Van Allen
Winter Picnics, 'by Ruby Price Weeks

Child Life, January 1938
Things-To-Do for Boys and Girls

Scholastic Coach, January 1938

Ice Hockey Fundamentals, by George P. Geran
Sensationalism in Sports, by Ross Allen

PAMPH LETS

Annual Report of the Parkersburg, West Virginia, Board
of Recreation, 1936-1937

Citizen Leadership—Lay and Expert and the Problems of
Leisure

Third Annual Report of the Chicago Recreation
Commission

-The New Swimrnin’ Hole, Fall Issue 1937

Division of Sanitary Engineering; State Department
of Public Health, Springfield, Illinois

The Evansville Survey

Conducted 'by Carter Taylor for Community Chests
and Councils, Inc., 1937

City of Austin, Texas, Special Report of the City Mana-
ger, Recreation Department, 1937

Annual Report of the Division of Parks and Recreation
of the Dgpartment of Public Welfare, City of St. Louis,
1936-193

Handbook of the American Library Association Bulletin,
November 1937

684

Snow Sports in Southern
California

THE IDEA of snow sports in Southern California
comes to most recreation enthusiasts with a bit
of shock. The “land of sunny climes” does not, in
one’s imagination, lend itself to such develop-
ments as snow trains, ski huts, and a St. Moritz
American style. Nevertheless, it is true. Trails

M agaeine, the quarterly publication of the Moun— '

tain League of Southern California, invites its
readers to one thousand square miles of snow cov-
ered mountain range over a mile high, within easy
access of the population centers of Southern Cali—
fornia. Open for three months of the year, this
great area now competes with the best snow sports
areas of the country.

The popularity of skiing, »known as “ski mad—
ness,” seems to be universal. Membership in the
ski clubs of the United States Eastern Amateur
Ski Association is said to have more than doubled
in the past two years. The Pacific Northwest not
only draws its thousands during the winter sea—
son, but a midsummer ski tournament on Mount
Hood adds a new phase to the sport. Yosemite
has developed some of its ski possibilities within
the last three or four years, and plans for wider,
use of its accessible snow areas. Skiing has gone
de luxe in these parts. No longer 'is the dizzy
downward thrill followed by a long hard pull up
the hill. The ski tow or a ride in a cable car or on
a funicular railway takes the grind out of skiing
and makes possible more breath—taking “moments
of ecstacy” on the long descent.

Southern California is to be congratulated on
this new development in its recreation world. The
soft delights of winter resorts by the sea may
have to look to their laurels as “ski madness”
takes possession of the minds of, young men and
women. “When you see individuals spending their
summers climbing mountains and doing exercises
learned from ski exercise books just to keep their
muscles in trim for skiing, you will know that
here is a sport that has something for. you. It is
bound to pay dividends in health and zestful
living.”

 

 

( Continued from preceding page)

each of the agencies asking a fee for basketball
and the outdoor theater. Charges for swimming
were not reported.

SNOW SPORTS IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Your Museum
(Continued from page 669)

available for teaching history and appreciation of
music.

In Chicago

Twenty-five years ago organized direct service
to the schools of Chicago was instituted by the
Field Museum of Natural History with the es-
tablishment by the late Norman Wait. Harris of
the N. W. Harris Public School Extension. An
endowment of $250,000 was provided. The mu-
seum is in daily contact with every public elemen-
tary school in Chicago, as well as with most of the
high schools, parochial, practice, continuation,
parental, private and other types of schools.

By means of traveling exhibition cases, the
Harris Extension in effect establishes a branch
of the museum at each school. Loans of these
cases containing natural history and economic
material were begun on a small scale in 1913. The
activity has expanded until at the present time
two cases are sent every two weeks to each of the
434 schools, having a total enrollment of approxi-
mately 700,000 pupils. The exhibits are displayed
in classrooms, school corridors and assembly halls.

The largest of the traveling exhibits is devoted
to zoology and includes mammals, birds, insects.
fishes, reptiles and' amphibians. Another series of
cases contains realistic reproductions of wild
flowers and plants in natural settings. There are
also many cases showing steps in.the preparation
and manufacture of food, clothing materials,
glass, paper, chinaware, linoleum and other in-
dustrial products.

Adults have opportunities to examine the cases
at such centers as Y.M. C. A.’s, Y.W.C.A.’s, so-
cial settlements, community clubs and employees’
organizations in industrial plants. Branches of
the Chicago Public Library use the cases to stimu-
late interest in books on nature.

In New York City

The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York
City, offers courses and lectures on various sub-
jects and occasional concerts. An announcement
of lectures to be given from February through
May 1938 includes free lectures on Greek art and
civilization, the social aspects of art through suc-
cessive periods, color and design, and design in the
decorative arts. There will be two special lectures
on Egyptian art. W eek—day and Sunday tours of
the collections offered in the first term will be
continued.

I
i
I
l
I

l

I

.‘1

l'.

V A NOTABLE GIFT 685

which will be sent without charge to anyone re-

questing it, gives a detailed schedule of all the
lectures mentioned and of additional courses

planned especially for members of the museum and
teachers in the public schools.

 

Even the Theater Takes to the Trailer
( Continued from page 670)

Operettas as the “Student Prince,” offered the
opening night, kept the stadium packed night after
night. '

. Additional work done in connection with the
_ stadium included the building of new cement ap-
,‘ proaches and the provision of parking space for
automobiles.

More than 90 percent of the labor involved in
construction of the stage was furnished by the
Works Progress Administration of New York
City. The WPA also supplied steel for the frame-
work. The woodwork, undercarriage, and wheel
materials were purchased by the city.

With the American Municipal

I Association

(Continued from page 671)
vorable consideration to the merit system. The
American Municipal Association has, through a
committee, been studying the possibility of re-
moval of the clause of the Federal Social Se—
curity Act which exempts municipal employees
from the provisions of this Act. The efforts to
this end were to be continued during the coming
year.

} You Asked for It!

(Continued from page 672)

for many types of activities which young men and
' young women can enjoy together.

More About H‘orseshoe Pitching Equipment

The “You Asked for It !” column has aroused
much interest. In the January issue there ap-
| peared a statement suggesting a method of secur-
ing horseshoe pegs. One of our readers has writ-
ten in to suggest that the equipment manufactured
by the Diamond Calk Horseshoe Company at Du-
luth, Minnesota, provides an official court which
holds the stake rigidly and at- the proper angle.
This court, which is sunk in the ground and filled
with clay, conforms to national horseshoe pitch-
ing regulations and is used in tournament play
throughout the country.

AjNotable Gift

l-Ess THAN three weeks before Lima, Ohio, was
to vote on the issue of levying a special tax
for the purchase of a park and lake property, it
was announced that the purchase had been made
by a local business man, Thomas R. Schoonover,
and the property given to the city with a fund for
its development. Formerly known as McCulloughs
Lake, the forty-nine acre area had been for many
years a commercial amusement park with a swim-
ming pool, dance pavilion and numerous amuse—
ment features. At one time a very popular resort,
it had become run down of late years. The prop-
erty consists of twenty-six acres of water and a
surrounding rim of land widening to a consider-
able degree in some places. It is located in a sec-
tion of the city without park and play space at the
present time. The lake is admirably adapted to
skating, boating and water carnivals, and the wider
sections of the land may be developed as play and
picnic areas. There is much opportunity for plant-
ings, nature trails and beauty spots. Tentative
plans now include swimming pools, a boathouse
and a building adapted for year-round use.

In addition to this gift. of the property, Mr.
Schoonover has agreed to give $25,000 toward the
development and to match a $5,000 contribution
from the city each year for a period of ten years.
Of equal importance to the project is his personal
interest in the project, as he has accepted the
chairmanship of a special board to develop the
park and has said that he expects to make this his
own leisure time or hobby interest.

In his letter announcing the gift, Mr. Schoonover
said it was “an expression of my pride in our
city and in acknowledgment of one of our greatest
needs, with particular. thought for our children to-
day and the oncoming generation of tomorrow.”
He stipulated that the entire property be forever
dedicated to the people of Lima for park pur-
poses. Assurances have been received from WPA
authorities of their approval of a project for the
improvement of the property, and it is expected
that work will begin shortly in tearing down
buildings, cleaning up the grounds and doing
some necessary grading.

The appreciation by his fellow citizens of Mr.
Schoonover’s generosity was shown at a public
meeting when the deed was delivered to the
Mayor, and by the action of the City Council in
naming the area Schoonover Park.

 

Games

By Jessie H. Bancroft,'M.P.E. The Macmillan Com—
pany, New York. $4.00. School Edition, $3.00.

To THE MANY recreation workers, physical educators,
club leaders, teachers and others who have used Miss
Bancroft’s book on games for so many years which so
long has been an invaluable guide to workers in many

fields, the announcement that the revised edition of the.

book is ready for distribution will come as welcome news.
The changes in the book consist mainly of additions, new
games having been added to each section. New research
in foreign countries has resulted in the inclusion of a
number of games which did not appear in the original
edition. The majority of games presented have been
newly written and brought up to date with official rules.
As a result, the volume—and the 'book contains about 700
pages—now covers a much larger amount of material and
a wider range of interest than in its original form, while
all that has been most useful has been retained. The in-
dex has a valuable feature in that it indicates the grades
and the ages at which each game may be appropriately
used.

Home Play and Play Equipment
For the Preschool Child

Children’s Bureau Publication No. 238. Government
Printing Office, Washington. $.10.

THE GREATER PART of this practical booklet is devoted to
suggestions for making outdoor play equipment, and
diagrams and directions are offered for such equipment
and apparatus as the sand box, play plank and sawhorse,
and .swing and climbing bars. There are also suggestions
for toys, books and pictures. The opening section en—
titled “Play a Way of Learning” stresses the values of
play and offers an introduction to the more practical sub-
jects discussed.

Adult Education

By Kirtley F. Mather and Dorothy Hewitt. D. Appleton—
Century Company, New York. $1.75.

"0 NE 01“ THE highly stimulating and inviting oppor—
tunities before adult education is the fostering of
this newly found joy‘in the creative arts: dancing for
the overwrought business woman; dramatics for the in—
grown store clerk; etching for the financier; drawing for
the ticker-tape mechanic, and so on down the long line of
adults. We are beginning to have a strong suspicion that
within every normal human being, there lies creative
ability that needs only a chance to Hower.” This is the
conclusion of the authors of this volume after four years
of experience in conducting the Boston Center for Adult
Education, which has drawn nearly two thousand per-
sons from all walks of life to its classes, craft shops, and
discussions. This book describes the factors that make
for success in the enterprise.
The principles and methods that were applied in break-
ing down prejudices, of enlisting the interest of the com-

686

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

  

munity, of planning programs, and in selecting leadership

are described in objective fashion. The chapter on
analysis of the community is of special interest. Almost
half of the book is given to a description of method—
how to use group discussion, the public conversation, the
“panel, the lectures, the forum, and the symposium. While
emphasizing the educational value of the program cen—
ter, the authors assert that “as yet, adult education is

considered by most people to be a kind of elevated
recreationL”

Europe at Play
By L. H. Weir. A. S. Barnes & Company, New York.
$10.00.

THE DEVELOPMENT of recreation in Europe in the last

two decades has gone on with astonishing rapidity al-
though the beginnings of many manifestations of it hark
back for a much longer period. Some of the developments
in the small garden movement, in physical recreation ac-
tivities and areas, in forest recreation, nature instruction
and facilities and Youth Hostel movement have been trac—
ed in this volume by L. H. Weir. As a Fellow of the
Oberlaender Trust during the summer of 1933 and again
for almost the entire year of 1936, Mr. Weir studied
recreation organization, facilities and activities in a num-
ber of European countries. The study is by no means
complete, and the author asks that it be considered as a
preliminary exploration only.

Of special interest to recreation workers is the chapter
on the Cultural Use of Leisure with its description of
municipally and stated owned theaters, of folk music and
dances and of arts and handcrafts. A number of the
special leisure-time organizations operating in several of
the European countries are described.

The book is profusely illustrated by beautiful photo-
graphs. .

Out of Doors With Birds

By Emma F. Byers. The Womans- Press, New York
City. $1.00.

MANY PEOPLE are discouraged from turning a more or
less casual interest in birds into a real hobby be-
cause they are dismayed,and confused :by the detail in
bird guide books. Having read this chatty 85-page book
pointing out in simple anecdotal style the highlights of
bird study and bird identification, the bird lover will
find learning to use a guide book and “discovering” birds
easier and more exciting. The basic material applies to
all birds, but the examples are confined to birds of east-
ern North America.

How Fare Arnerican Youth?

Homer P. Rainey and others. A report of the American
Youth Commission. D_. Appleton-Century Co. $1.50.

"WHAT YOUNG‘PEOPLE are asking for specifically are
more playgrounds, community centers where su-
pervised crafts, hobbies, forums, dramatics and music
can be indulged in, swimming pools and organized sports.”

g...

‘f

A

\
i i
I

 

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD 687

Leadership in directing such activities “is a high calling
requiring experience in group directing, ability to or-
ganize, initiative and ingenuity, buoyant personality, ac-
quaintance with the whole field of crafts, the fine arts,
games, sports and entertainment features, and an educa—
tional background of sociology, pedagogy, government, bi-
ology, psychology, guidance and physical education. Per-
fection cannot be expected but the men and women required
for recreational directorship must be able to manage a
pr0gram unobstrusively yet certainly; must be attractive
to young and old; must possess teaching ability and the
capacity to respect all types of personalities. Neither
playgrounds nor indoor programs can operate safely and
successfully without such leadership.”

These statements constitute the heart of the findings
submitted to the American Youth Commission on the
subject of recreation. The findings were based on fed-
eral, state and municipal youth surveys and censuses pub-
lished in fifteen different states. The studies cover p0pu-
lation trends among youth, their employment status,
youth and schools, youth and health, rural youth, colored
youth, youth and the home, and finally youth and the
larger citizenship.

The problems of youth outlined in this volume are
staggering. Only sixty percent of all employable young
people, 16 to 24, have been able to find work. Their
median wage is $15. a week and large numbers of them
work without pay. One out of eight finds his way to a
state hospital. On the farm there are two million more
youth than are needed to grow commercial agricultural
products. A million and a half who would normally be
married have been forced to postpone that event. Youth
neglects the church because its message to him is not a
vital one. Negro youth above all faces the most difficult
handicaps, economical and educational, and is threatened
by the most serious health hazards. In the face of these
problems youth asks for more adequate recreational fa-
cilities. In a rural community in Wisconsin the first de-
sire expressed by youth was for recreation even “before
more work with pay.” In Detroit more than one-fourth
of the youths studied said that recreation was their most
difhcult problem. Ten surveys in the various parts of the
United States show that the recreational picture is the

same everywhere.

This book is a real challenge to recreation leaders and
is deserving of careful reading. It should get into the
hands of committeemen, city officials and especially those
lay persons of whom there are still a few who feel that
the recreation job is done.

Books on Handcraft.

The Harter Publishing Company, Cleveland, Ohio.
Each $.10 plus $.10 postage.

Recreation workers and other leaders who may not be
familiar with the Harter publications will want to know
that there are available a number of booklets on hand-
craft prepared by Edwin T. Hamilton, well-known author
of a number of books on handcraft. Among these are
Making 30 Kites That Fly, with full directions and dia:
grams; Coping Saw Carpentry, with directions for mak-
ing a large number of household articles,_ and Building
Model Airplane: That Fly. These exceedingly practlcal
booklets and many others on subjects of interest to rec-
reation leaders are available.

Reading for Fun.

By Eloise Ramsey. National Council of Teachers of
English, 211 West 68th Street, Chlcago. $.20.

This list of books for boys and girls in the elementary
school was prepared for the National Cpuncd of Teachers
of English with the cooperation of its Committee on
Recreational Reading for Elementary Schools. Each page
offers a short list of books about something m Wthh boys

and girls are interested. Many new books are introduced
or old favorites appear, and all the books included have
illustrations. The books are classified under the following
headings: Good Times at Home; City, Country and
Travel; Animals Everywhere; PeOple and Things We
Like; Old Tales and Brave Deeds; Magic and Poetry;
Our World—Today and Long Ago; America and Her
Neighbors; Festivals and Holidays. The attractive illus-
trations Which have been used and the effective way in
which the lists are presented cannot fail to make their
appeal to the children for whom these lists have been
prepared.

Surveys of Youth.

By D. L. Harley. The American Council on Educa-
tion, 744 Jackson Place, Washington, D. C. $.50.

To help meet the need for definite information on the
present condition of American youth, the American Youth
Commission has brought together; for the benefit of the
individual " and group wanting to know what studies of
youth have been made in recent years, some significant
facts about youth surveys made in the United States since
1931. It identifies and briefly describes 166 surveys,
national, regional, state and local, classifies them, provides
analytical aids which will enable particular groups of
surveys to be readily isolated, and tells how to obtain
copies of reports.

Dancing Dolls.

Add—a-Puppet Play Series. By Hamburg Puppet
Guild, Hamburg, New York. Samuel French, New
York. $.75.

In this collection of seven puppet plays for children the
plays offered are simple and easily produced. While some
of the characters are used in more than one of the plays,
there is enough variety to maintain interest. The foreword
contains some suggestions of value to beginning pup-
peteers. There is no royalty for amateur use.

Fundamental Handball.

By Bernath E. Phillips. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New YOrk. $1.50.

This book may be used not only by handball novices
but by more experienced players and instructors. The
material is presented clearly and intelligibly, as are the
pictures and diagrams. The book is divided into six parts:
An Introduction to the Sport; to the Novice; the Funda—
mentals; the Shots; to the More Advanced Player; to
the Instructor. There 'is an appendix containing official
rules. The attractive presentation of practical material
makes this book a valuable one'for gymnasium instruc-
tors as well as for handball players.

Growing Up With Music.

By Beatrice Perham. Neil A. Kjos Music Cornpany,
Chicago. $.25 each.

A series of very attractively printed and illustrated
booklets for children’s reading, each one of which is in
happy keeping with the present school emphasis on
“units” of study. For younger children Jerry and Janet
on the Farm is a delightful tale interspersed with related
songs well suited to the children. Also for younger chil-
dren are Come, Let Us Make a Garden and‘Songs of
Travel and Transport, the latter, good also for somewhat
older children, taking one from hiking through sailing,
skiing with the Swiss, horseback-riding with the C05-
sacks, going about in a j inrikisha with the Japanese, in a
sled with Eskimos, to travel in a street car, a train and
in an airplane, with one or more songs for each sort of
transportation. For older children are two books about
the singers of the Middle Ages, one about The, Trouba-
dours, and the other about the M instrels and Minnesing-
ers. There is also The Music of Early Greece rightly
said to be “a sincere effort to give the young student some
feeling for, and an understanding of, what was once a

(>88 NEPV PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

great factor in the life of a great peOple.” Last  the
series is Christmas: Its Music, Origins, and Traditions,
which is the most attractive and revealing little book
about Christmas that we know.

All these books have been compiled with excellent
taste and with an eagerness and lightness of spirit that
make them well suited to any play group of children as
well as a school group. Indeed, they are better suited to
a group at play than to a group in the common over-
regimented sort of school.——A. D. Zanzig.

Christmas Carols.

By Hendrik Willem Van Loon and Grace Castagnetta.
Simon and Schuster, New York. $2.00.

Hendrik Willem Van Loon, who loves to sing and play ,

Christmas carols, has drawn or painted the delightful
illustrations which accompany the twenty favorite carols
comprising this attractive book dedicated to Annie Carroll
Moore of the New York Public Library. Grace Castag-
netta has made the piano arrangements.

Development of a Leisure-Time Program
in Small Cities and Towns.

By Ella-Gardner. Bureau Publication No. 241. Gov-
ernment Printing OBice, Washington, D. C. $.05.

In this thirteen page booklet Miss Gardner outlines
the steps involved in initiating a community leisure-time
program, suggests IbrieHy standards for playgrounds and
other recreational facilities, and offers a bibliography.

Health Ways.

By Philip L.. Riley and Harriet V. Fitchpatrick. The
Harter Publishing Company, Cleveland, Ohio. $.20.

Here are two books on health prepared for little chil-
dren. Young children, the authors point out, are not inter-
ested in health as such but they are interested in doing
things and are very curious about everything new. To
direct this natural curiosity and to provide an incentive to
activities in ways which will be beneficial to the child, the
authors have prepared a series of books illustrating by
word and picture simple activities. Book l—Part 1 is en-
titled First Steps to Health. Book 2—Part 1, In. School,
deals with the life of the child in school. Other books in
preparation are Health Ways at Home and A Trip to
the Farm.

Grow Up Emotionally and Have Fun!

By J. George Frederick. The Beaux Arts Press,
New York. $2.00.

This book is built on the model Of the author’s first
book, that Is Y our Emotional Age? which has enliven-
ed thousands of parties and social gatherings for the past
few years. F ifty-eight interesting and amusing tests are
offered, and in trying them you will learn much about
yourself and other peOple. But the book also contains
some serious advice. For example, the chapter entitled
“Your Emotional Nature Versus Your Mind” contains
some sound advice about the place and importance of the
emotions.

Handbook on Social Work Engineering.

By June Purcell Guild and Arthur Alden Guild.
Published by Whittet & Shepperson, Richmond.
Virginia. $1.50.

This manual is based largely on the authors’ experi-
ences in Richmond, Virginia, one of the few cities, ac-
cording tO Allen T. Burns in his introduction, which has
contributed more to support its human services each year
of the depression than was given previously. In the hand-
book a study of problems rather than agencies is advo-
cated and its purpose is to suggest a method of measur-
ing with some approximation of accuracy local social
work problems and, if need be, increasing public support
for social and health work. In a chapter on An Informal
Educational and Recreational Program some searching

questions are asked regarding the recreation program and
the danger is pointed out of establishing a program with-
out a thorough knowledge of problems and needs. The
Recreation Council is advocated as a means of promoting
a sound program.

The Recreation “Kit”—No. 43. -
Cooperative Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio.
$.25.

Three folk plays comprise the contents of the latest
issue of the Kit. These plays, produced at the John C.
Campbell Folk School, Brasstown, North Carolina, are
“The Old Woman and the Peddler,” “Get Up and Bar
the Door,” and “Haste to the Wedding.” Permission to
produce the plays must be secured in writing from the
Folk School and no royalty will be charged if such per-
mission is ‘secured.

Color Miniatures.

Art Education Press, Inc., 424 Madison Avenue,
New York.

Recreation workers, teachers, club leaders and all in-
terested in developing in children an appreciation of the
best in art will want to know of these full color prints in
miniature size. The series includes all representative
schools of painting, with modern art works interspersed
with those of the old masters. There are now 270 color
miniatures measuring approximately 3%- ‘by 4% inches
which may be secured at one cent each. For the complete
set there is a special price of_$2.60 postpaid.

Just For Fun.

Texts and Tunes by Alice Keith. Paull-Pioneer
Music Corporation, New York. $.25.

This little “Play and Sing” book contains simple songs
and melodies for little children based on their interests

and activities. The illustrations alone make it a fascinat-
ing booklet for children.

 

 

Oflicers and Directors of the National

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. FINLEY, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. Kmnv, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. GREGG BEMis, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. WILLIAu BUTTERWORTII, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

RonER-r GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. MELVILLE I-I. I-IASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. I'IICKOX, _Michigan City, lnd.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON-HUGHES, West Orange, N. J
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y. -
FREDERICK M. WAREURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

