Triumphant lemg
HAT CAN BE done to make “every man a king,” “every life a masterpiece"; to
help every man "to play a real and significant part in life’s great game”; to

enable each youth to “sing his song"; to make life a “glory and not a grind";
to bring it about that every one shallb'e “happier than the happiest of us now are,"
that “the habitual state of happiness should be greater than the happiest moments
most people have experienced.”

True it is that "the most valuable thing which comes into a life is that
experience, that book, that person, that incident, that emergency, that accident, that
catastrophe—“that something which touches the springs of man’s inner nature and
flings open the doors of his great within, revealing its hidden resources.”*

The purpose of the recreation center is life——life in all its fullness—life that runs,
that sings, that lifts, that has power, that flows back into the home, the church, the
factory and gives greater meaning to everything that happens from hour to hour and
makes even silence and rest more significant.

A recreation center that is only a recreation center is not so much———-any more
than a school that is only a school. Few persons praise the old~time saloon of the
nineties and yet there were certain qualities in those saloons that the community
recreation centers of today have not yet capturedHa depth of reality, genuineness,
vitality—no imitation, no phoniness. A newsboy, unsympathetic to the saloon, for
years going in and out of many of them, could not help feeling the saloon keeper's
nearness to his people, his simplicity, his understanding of men—J—of their joys and their
sorrows, his natural gifts of leadership, a knowledge of life beyond the academic and
the bookish. Here, rightly or wrongly, men felt that they lived.

Some recreation centers—“but only a few—--——have caught the best of the reality and
the vitality and the simplicity of certain of the old—time neighborhood saloons of the
nineties. There is no reason why the recreation centers of the country as a whole
should not somehow find that same vitality, that same closeness to the soil. that same
closeness to the immediate joys and sorrows of the common man. The professional

glad—hand never takes the place of sincere human interest.

Only a small percentage of men are born with the qualities that make for a good
community recreation worker, that make for leadership for happy, triumphant living.
For these few training of course is most important. Society some day will not waste
these few so gifted on jobs that are much less important than leadership for triumphant

living now.
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

* This quotation and the phrases are from “How to Get What You Want" by Orison Swett Marden. published by
Thomas Y. Crowell Company, New York City.

MacMurray College Library
Jacksonvillez Illinois

APRIL, 1939 _ (7"

@9675 ‘1

 

 

Courtesy Passaic County, N. 1., Park Commission

SKY DREAMS

Far from ihis s’rale ci’ryI My hear’r 'I'o ioyous rhy’rhm.

Among ihe quie’r hills. There my fhough’rs in crys’ral gleams
Where brooks iheir songs are singing. Rise oui beyond ihe morning

And ihe laurel glory ’rhrills To fhe sky's highway of dreams.

—Rex M. Cate, Manhassef. N. Y.

 

of: Playground Theaters

 

The Design and Construction J “"' ""
4
" “an!” h

VERY PLAYGROUND should provide opportunity
for creative expression through handcraft,
music and creative art. All children, and

most adults, for that matter, love to express them-
selves dramatically, and it is because of its part in
helping to satisfy this secret yearning that the
theater has become so valuable a facility in a well-
balanced playground development. The word
“theater” must not be given too literal an interpre-
tation, however, because physical and financial
barriers often demand that much be left to the
imagination.

Sunbeams for footlights, grass for the stage

fioor, the sky for a canopy, and perhaps the leafy.

limb of a tree for the proscenium arch--—these are
nature’s contributions to the theater of childhood.
It is in this secret spot, a new world of the play—
ground, that dreams become pulsating realities.
To understand children is a prerequisite to under-
standing the design of the playground theater.
Old formulas must be thrown away and we must
become as children if we are to overcome success-
fully the obstacles that confront the designer.

In the general classification of outdoor theaters,
ranging from the gigantic stadium bowl to the
simple naturalistic hillside overlooking a level
clearing in a fragrant woods, the playground
theater seems somewhat removed except when in-
troduced as a facility in some of the larger and
more extensively developed playfields. The small
playground theater differs fundamentally from
Other outdoor theaters in its functional use. Here
the emphasis is placed upon the participant rather

1W . WW spit-w...

than!» I“ l... “at” ‘4'...
owl-t

By P. ELLWOOD ALLEN
National Recreation Association

than on the spectator. Plays are produced not so
much for the purpose of entertaining an audience
but primarily for the value of creative dramatic
expression. In the playground theater a simple
charade prepared on the spur of the moment may
constitute the dramatic high point of the day.

It is obvious that the playground theater need
not rely on elaborate settings and props for stage
effects, and as its use is confined almost entirely
to morning and afternoon hours, there is no prob-
lem of artificial lighting, for sunbeams are the
footlights. _

The type of playground theater depends on a
number of factors: size and topography of the
play area; extent, size, and arrangement of other
facilities; and the need as demonstrated by the
enthusiasm and interest of the community.

The playground theater may be one of three
distinct types which, for want of a better descrip-
tion can be classified as informal, semi-formal,

'and formal.

The Informal Theater. This type is recognizable
as a theater only to those who have claimed it as
such. A quiet corner of the playground, a shady
spot under a tree, or an open stretch of lawn can
easily qualify. There is no defined stage with
wings or backstage area, no space especially de-
signed for spectators. In fact, there are none of

3

4 SUNBEAMS FOR FOOTLIGHTS

the characteristics of a theater apparent. Yet to
the children it is their theater and to them it is
very real.

There is hardly a playground of satisfactory
size that cannot dedicate some small portion of
the area to dramatic use. It need not be used ex-
clusively for this, as this type of playground thea-
ter can be adapted to many activities and can
become a valuable contributing factor in a mul—
tiple use program. The sketch at the head of this
article illustrates a corner of a playground which
could easily be adapted for a theater of this type.
The sand box and benches in no way interfere
with the use of the area as a theater.

The Semi-formal Type. A theater of this type is
simply the expansion or building tip of the in-
formal. The stage may be either clearly or only

  

\' o ‘
4* .‘Je- - 3'"-'.-'.'
$974,»; To WM :3
. .-- . - ' 0 .p i

' ."...'
.3“.-

 
    

l‘av/ ray/yr;

174 Tic/Y“

DgJ'J’ZSp? A L-

- T .n -' o
_ . ‘ . I '
.   '_" ‘ I: ' ~" "1' . '- '
-_ "M. . ' .' "fa.- ' -,
I u ” :'--. . o. - ' '
' I. '0'. I I ' T I
o - a 0'...
.

 1:44.;- .
h - 9“. m F'r?’

partially defined by a low hedge, wall, or terrace.
Groupings of shrubs can be adapted as wings and
trees and shrubs provide the necessary stage back-
ground. Such a theater, when pointed out to the
uninitiated, is easily recognized, and its function
is clearly translated. The element of balance is
not necessarily applied, but balance may be present
in its occult form. The size, shape and- arrange-
ment of the theater varies with the existing physi-
cal and cultural features of the playground. The
apron of the stage separates the spectators from
the actors, as in the typical theater.

The Formal Type. Here will be found all the
characteristics of the conventional theater. It is
in many ways comparable to the indoor theater in
that there is a well-defined, elevated stage, and a

(Continued on Page 43)

 
  
      
  
     
   
  
   

#0075447.
JOC can?

  

.119 5“

' kale."

H lléPEIINOJr -_.I M/
 _-  .'.:_.. ' . .
-._E_i.l;I_-D_-_El_-H -. ’

  

 fbn - Dbl/FL. CID/“75'” 7"- of-

PAAVJ’PII‘LD -' PAOPR
.7 wart-prov” - Jot/TH bake-fa

G 1-!!!“

 

May Day Celebrations

HE TRADITIONAL May Day
I celebration is heightened

in importance year by year.
There is probably no single
holiday which arouses in chil-
dren and adults alike so keen
an appreciation for the truly
poetic, for the beautiful in na-
ture, as does May Day with its traditions and
customs perpetuating the worth of everyday liv-
ing. The traditional May Day, with its beribbon-
ed. Maypoles, animated dancers, and merry song-
sters, has unusual charm and appeal whether in an
atmosphere of simplicity or in a more elaborate
setting.

May Day celebrations offer those in charge un-
limited opportunity to give full play to their
powers of imagination and their ability. The di-
rector may reveal his knowledge and skills by
successfully adapting the traditional May Day to
the theme chosen. In doing this his technical skill
in craftsmanship, stage setting, costuming, danc-
ing, singing, stunts and games is plainly displayed.
Most important of all is the demand made upon
his ability to inspire participants to such a degree
that they will lose themselves in the characters
they portray.

Outstanding festivals are the outgrowth of
careful planning and skillful direction. Continued
progress and growth call for a still greater appre-
ciation of the fundamentals which constitute a
traditionally correct May Day. Unless a May Day
celebration embodies the folk traditions and cus—
toms which are universally recognized as typical
of the welcome to spring; unless it shows an ap-
preciation for such classical
Observances as the crowning

Jocund swains

"l have seen the Lady of the May
Set in an Arbour (on a holiday)
Built by the May-poleI where the

Dance with the Maidens
To the Bagpipe strains."

——-From Browne's Pastorals. u

play, gives pleasing continuity
and dramatic interest. There is
a rich store of legends and in-
formation connected with any
of the following suggested

themes and characters.
Conflict Between Winter and

Spring. SUggested characters:
Jack Frost and his Sprites, Snow Flakes, Wind,
Snow, SUnbeams, Flowers, Lady Spring and At-
tendants, Flower Girls, Garland and Basket Danc-
ers, Spirit of Spring.
Awakening of Spring. Suggested characters:
Winter, Snow Lady, Spring, Butterflies, Flowers,
Summer, Autumn.

Spring in the Garden. Suggested characters:
Snow, Rain, Weeds, Flowers, Gardeners, Birds,
Butterflies;

Spring in the Forest. Suggested characters:
Trees, Woodmen, Nymphs, Dryads, Rabbits,
Brownies, Fairies.

The Myth of Ceres and Proserpine. Suggested
characters: King Pluto, Maidens, Flowers, Villag—
ers, Phoebus and Sun God, Mercury. (Refer to

story.)

Fairy Tales such as I'The Sleeping Beauty." "Snow
White." "Cinderella." etc. (Refer to stories.)

Going A-Maying in Merrie England. or Revels of
Robin Hood and His Merrie Men. Suggested char-
acters: Heralds, Trumpeters, Robin Hood and
His Merrie Men, Woodmen, Chimney Sweeps,
Jack o’ the Green, Village Groups, Milkmaids,
Gypsies, Shepherdesses, Haymakers, Alan-a-Dale,
Ellen-a-Dale, Queen’s Attendants, Maid Marian,

Jesters, Archers, Strolling
Players, Tumblers, Jousters,

of the May Queen, proces-
sions, rituals, ceremonies,
dancing, music, singing.
games, dramatic interludes,
correct costuming, and the
winding of the Maypole, it
will not be recognized as an
authentic May Day celebra-
tion.

Program
The May Day theme, if
based upon a central story or

Is it too much to hope that through May
Day observances we may recapture some-
thing of the ioyous spontaneity and the
happy social intermingling which were
so large a part of life in older days?
Folk customs and festivals are as sig-
nificant today as they were in the fif-
teenth a'nd sixteenth centuries. Let us
continue' through such festivities, to
glorify the rich heritage which has been
preserved for us. And let us male more
meaningful our everyday recreational ac-
tivities by dramatizing them in a com-
plete and beautiful festival observance.

Pyramid Builders.

May Day in Many Lands.
Folk customs, dances, music
and games of many nations
may be used.

Plays

“The Enchanted Maypole.” A
pageant-play by Marion C. Hol-
brook. Relates to the first May-
pole in America, closes with a
May Day program. Included in
Little Plays for Little People,

5

6 .MA 1’ DA 1’ CELEBRA TIONS

compiled and edited by A. P. Sanford and Robert Haven
Schauflier. Dodd, Mead and Co., 449—4th Ave., New
York City. $2.50.

“May Treasure.” A short play for children. Included
in The Knight of the Funny Bone and Other Plays for
Children, by Frances Cavanah. Walter H. Baker Co.,
178 Tremont St., Boston, Mass. 60¢

“Little John and the Miller Join Robin Hood’s Band,”
by Perry B. Corneau. A play in 2 scenes for 7 boys and
extras. Old Tower Press, Lockport, Ill., 35¢

’!

“May Treasure. A short play for children. Included

play for the grades and junior high school. Roman
Floralia, Old English and modern May Day episodes are
included. N. R. A., 15¢

“Troubadours of Provence,” by Marion Holbrook. A
May Day fragment for high school or college use based

on the old Provencal custom of holding a tournament of
song each May Day. N. R. A., 10¢

“Pageants and Festivals Suitable for May Day Cele-
bration.” This bibliography will be sent upon request by
the National Recreation Association.

Dances

May Day is a time when a variety of folk and
other dances may be used.

English Country Dances

The following are available separately for 25¢
each from the H. W. Gray Co., Agents for No-
vello and Co., 159 East 48th St., New York City.
Dance directions and music included.

Gathering Peascods Sellinger’s Round

Mage on a Cree Rufty Tufty

Ribbon Dance Sweet Kate

“An Introduction to the English Country
Dance,” containing the description together with
the tunes of 12 dances, by Cecil J. Sharp. H. W.
Gray and Co., $2.25. Includes the following:

Sweet Kate Gathering Peascods

Rufty Tufty Mage on a Cree

English Morris Dances

The Morris Book, by Cecil J. Sharp, Herbert
C. Macilwaine and George Butterworth, in five

parts with descriptions of the dances. H. W.
Gray Co., $2.00 each part.

Part I—including:

- “Bean Setting” (Stick dance)
“Country Gardens" (Handkerchief dance)
“Rigs o’Marlow” (Stick dance)

“Blue-Eyed Stranger” (Handkerchief dance)
and eleven others

Part II—including:

“Old Mother Oxford” (Jig)
“Jockie to the Fair” (Jig)
“Rodney” (Stick dance) and thirteen others

Morris Dance Tunes (music for the above
dances) collected from traditional sources and ar-
ranged with pianoforte accompaniment; H. W.
Gray Co., $1. 50 each set.

Set I-—-including:
“Bean Setting” (Stick dance)
“Country Gardens” (Handkerchief dance)
“Rigs o’Marlow (Stick dance) and five others

Set II—including:
“Blue-Eyed Stranger” (Handkerchief dance)
and six others

Set III—including:
“Rodney” (Stick dance)
“Jockie to the Fair” (Jig)
“Old Mother Oxford” (Jig) and six others

Folk Dances

Folk Dances and Singing Games, by Elizabeth Burch-
enal. A revised collection of 26 folk dances of Norway,
Sweden, Denmark, Russia, Bohemia, Hungary, Italy,
England, Scotland and Ireland. Music, full directions and
numerous illustrations are given. A number of dances
have been incorporated which did not appear in the origi—
nal volume. G. Schirmer, Inc., 3 East 43rd St., New
York City. Board, $1.25; Cloth, $2.75.

Folk Dances from Old Homelands, by Elizabeth
Burchenal. Music and detailed descriptions of 33 folk
dances from Belgium, Czecho—Slovakia, Denmark, Eng-
land, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Lithuania,
Poland, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden and the United
States. G. Schirmer, Inc. $1.50

Proof of a Revised Edition of “Good Morning,” by
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ford. Comprehensive collection of
plain quadrilles, contra-dances, l-ancers, minuets, reels,
schottisches and round dances. Steps and calls are given

and music for each type. Dearfborn Publishing Co.,
Dearborn, Michigan. 15¢

Maypole Dances

Second Folk Dance Book, by C. Ward Crampton. A.
S. Barnes and Co., 67'West 44th St., New York City.
$2.40. Collection of 32 new folk dances with music and

descriptions. Includes Swiss May Dance, Maypole Dance,
and Cornish May Dance.

Popular Folk Games and Dances, by Mari R. Hofer.
A. Flanagan Co., 920 North Franklin St., Chicago, Ill.
75¢. Contains 54 games and dances of different nations
with music, words and instructions. Includes: Swiss
May Dance and the Cornish May Dance.

Dances Suitable for Court Attendants
or Flower Groups

“Dance of Greeting” included in Twice 55 Games With
Music, C. C. Birchard and Co., 221 Columbus Ave, Bos-
ton, Mass. Edition with melody and words, 25¢; C0111-
plete edition (piano accompaniment only), 75¢.

“Hunsdon House.” Dance directions and music avail-
able from H. W. Gray Co. 25¢.

M'A Y DAY CELEBRATIONS

 

Processional

March of the Priests~—Mendelssohn
Coronation March—Meyerbeer

Singing Games

The singing game is one of the earliest forms
of recreation and may well be included in the May
Day program. Children in the audience may be
invited to participate informally in these. One
might use such games as “Rabbit in the Hollow,”
“Ride a Cock Horse,” “Shoemaker’s Dance,”
“Farmer in the Dell,” “Did You Ever See a Las-
sie,” "Here \Ve Come Gathering Nuts in May”
and others.

References:

Twice 55 Games lir'itli Music. C. C. Birchard and Co.
Edition with melody and words, 25¢; complete edition
(piano accompaniment only) 75¢.

F0112 Dances and Singing Games, by Elizabeth Burch-
enal. G. Schirmer, Inc. Board, $1.25; Cloth, $2.75.

Children’s Old and New Singing Games, by Mari R.
Hofer. A. Flanagan Co. 50¢.

Songs

Songs of May Day are legion, and there are
many fragmentary snatches of popular old songs

(primary ch‘art'mmt of Piaygroumi and Ri‘cn'utiln, 1.03 Angela’s

which are very appropriate. The list which fol-
lows is merely suggestive:
Come to the Fair
Galway Piper
Selections from Robin Hood
Fairy Song from “Midsummer Night’s Dream,” etc.
From the National Recreation Association you

may obtain upon request a bulletin entitled, “Now
Is the Month of Maying,” which lists a number of
spring and summer songs.

Other References

Hcigh-Ho for a Merry Spring. Includes complete
plans for a simple spring festival. N. R. A., 15¢. (Also
appeared in RECREATION Magazine, April 1935)

The Festival Book, by Jennette C. Lincoln. Contains
information as to early May Day customs, Maypole
dances with the use of streamers, selected national folk
('ances adapted for Maypole festivals, suggestions as to
accessories and costumes appropriate for such pageantry,
as well as complete details for a pageant. In addition it
has a section which would be helpful in regard to events
which lead up to the crowning of the May Queen, the
Pageant March, the Queen’s Dance, the Wreath Dance,
etc. A. S. Barnes and Co. $2.40.

Bibliography on Dancing and Singing Games. N. R. A.
10¢.

8 MAY DAY CELEBRATIONS

Building the Program

Careful planning in building a truly beautiful
May Day program is essential. In building the
program, interest must first be aroused. This may
be accomplished by poster pictures suggestive of
the chosen May Day theme. Neighborhood libra-
ries will gladly cooperate by displaying a few appro-
priate books in conspicuous places. These books
should be descriptive of May Day customs, Robin
Hood stories, nature myths, and tales of Spring.

May Day stories told during the story hour will
further stimulate interest in the May Day. The
children and adult participants should be told that
the May Day observance is an ancient, world-wide
rite, and not an interest peculiar to a few people.
When children are participating in singing games,
those typical of the May should be chosen during
this period.

Greater excellence of performance will inevit-
ably result from careful application of the fol-.
lowing suggestions:

Greater spirit and interest will be given the
program when entering groups remain to welcome
and applaud succeeding participants. This helps
to achieve an atmosphere of traditional revelry in
the celebration of the May. Mass effects heighten
the program.

Group singing as the May Queen is crowned
gives greater meaning to this important ceremony.
This also enables every participant to share in the
honors bestowed upon the Queen.

Pleasing color schemes may be effected with
colored crepe paper accessories.

Each participant should be effectively garbed,
and care should be taken to fit the costume to the
wearer. An adult should be made responsible for
the fitting of costumes. Bodices should cover the
top of skirt; correct and uniform hem lines are
important; decision should be made beforehand
just how many inches each costume should be
from the floor. It is advisable in many instances for
a participant to take his costume home the night
before the performance for correct adjustment.

When a play is used in the May Day, the speak-
ing characters should come close enough to the
audience to be heard. However, dancing groups
should be placed far enough back
for good perspective.

A floral bower for the May
Queen is much more effective
than a plain throne chair.

Smoothness is one of the prime

Much of this material has been
taken from information issued
in bulletin form by the Depart-
ment of Playground and Recrea-
tion, Los Angeles, California.

essentials in giving character to the performance.
This fundamental festival technique should be in-
creasingly adhered to, for any stops or breaks in
a festival program are disastrous. '

An English May Day

To make these suggestions more practical, an
outline is given for an English May Day, “May
Day Revel on Nottingham Green,” an adaptation
by Minnette Brodke Spector, Supervisor, Depart—
ment of Playground and Recreation, Los Angeles,
California. This festival, based upon the tradi—
tional Robin Hood story, is divided into three
episodes. As a prelude, selections from De Koven’s
“Robin Hood” may be played, followed by a
flower dance to the accompaniment of Scott’s
“Dance Negre.” Group leaves the stage at com—
pletion of the dance.

At the beginning of each episode, a Herald, an-
nounced by two trumpeters, relates to the audi-

ence in a few lines, the action about to take place:

“ ’Tis Sherwood Forest you now shall see,
In days of ancient chivalry;

Before you here shall live again
Bold Robin Hood and his Merry Men.”

Episode I——Slzer'zvood Forest. The scene of the
first episode is in Sherwood Forest. As German’s
“Nell~Gwynn” is being played, milkmaids, shep-
herds, and haymakers pass to their work on the
outskirts of Nottingham. Robin Hood and his
Merry Men enter, as Alan-a-Dale summons them
with his hunting horn. As they proceed into the
forest, they frolic and sing “A Hunting We Will
Go” by Buccolossi.

Episode II—Nott‘ingham Fair. After the Her-
ald announces the change of scene from Sherwood
Forest to the Nottingham Fair, merchants enter
and arrange their wares in various stalls which
have been set up as part of the scenery.

As music of “W’oodland Whispers” by Czibulka
is played, a pleasing atmosphere is created as
groups of haymakers, shepherds, and milkmaids
pass to and fro. The villagers then enter Spirit-
edly, led by the Burgomaster singing Martin’s
“Heigh-ho! Come to the Fair.” During the sing-
ing the revellers enter, and upon completion of
song they beckon the villagers and all to join in
“Sellinger’s Round.” When the
dance is finished, all sing “Twick-
enham Ferry” by Maizails. A cry
for another dance follows the
song and all dance “Sweet

Kate.” _
(Continued on page 44)

Science

lndoors
and
Out
By
H. HENRY PLATT

ALT WHITMAN has told us, “The truths of
W the earth continually await.” We know that

they await children everywhere. Our chal-
lenge is to help boys and girls to find them, to
give them greater opportunities to discover
things for themselves, to get them acquainted
with the out-of—doors, to show them how
things grow, and how to become aware of the
wonders of the world; in shOrt, to experience
nature at first hand.

At Elizabeth Peabody House in Boston, we
have discovered that children from seven to
fourteen years old are especially eager for op-
portunities to handle, experiment and discover
things for themselves through 'science. In
small groups of eight to ten, under the leader-
ship of volunteers from colleges and industry,
we are offering them such opportunities. But
we always have more eager applicants than
our groups or equipment can care for.

In the crowded West End of Boston where
this settlement house is located, housing is a
serious problem. Many children have no play-
ground but the gutter. There is little room at
home. The street is the natural meeting place.
Even in better neighborhoods and bigger homes
children are often sent out of doors to play
because their parents can’t be bothered with!
their questions or can’t answer them. So the
Science Department at Peabody House pro-
vides one answer for the eager questions of the
under-privileged child and an opportunity to
do many things.

Because the children so
eagerly desire to partici-
pate in such activities, the
work of the science clubs
seems important to us.
This is especially true when

 

Mr. Plattl who is director of the Sci-
ence Department of Elizabeth Peabody
House. presented this paper at the Nat-
ural Science Section of the Outdoor Rec-
reation Conference held at the Massachu-

setts State College on March l2. I939.

.. =HOWA FORT‘ .; '
,PREVENIS‘ [RO‘SlON‘ 

. 3:
2-”?
,.

Elizabeth Peabody
House in Boston be-
lieves that children
should have the op-
portunity to experi-
ment, to explore
and to carry on sci-
entitic research

we consider that many schools do not offer science
courses in elementary or junior high school grades.
In the Boston public schools, science is not offered
until the seventh or eighth grades. In the
ninth grade it is an elective. If a pupil is
taking a college course, he usually takes
ancient history instead. In the high schools
science courses usually do not begin until the
junior year. In some such courses there is
little or no laboratory work, in which case the
teacher performs the experiments and the
pupils copy the facts into their notebooks.
About a hundred and fifty children take part
in the science activities at Elizabeth Peabody
House. It is our concern not only that these
children shall become acquainted with nature
and develop scientific interests, but that
through these avenues they shall develop good
habits for work and study. After experiment-
ing for more than twelve years with our science
program, we believe it has demonstrated that
science teaching gives valuable preparation for
life and citizenship. We are ambitious to see

’ similar science clubs and related out-of-door

projects developed until they can reach the
thousands of children, not only in the West
End but in all of greater Boston.

In our Science Department general sciences
are the basis of all our club Work, including
nature study, astronomy, aircraft, photography,
chemistry, physics, biology, and the “science
of common things.” All these open exploratory
' paths for the under-privi-

leged city child from seven

to eighteen. We respect the
value of the science instruc-
tion in the schools and the
groundwork which it pro-
vides, but we feel that there

9

l‘

is still a large opportunity to be helpful to these
children in the out-of-school hours.

We try to make it an adventure. A phil-
osophy of wonder governs all our science
work. \Ve lead the child into the adventure
of discovery and the even greater adventure of
building his discoveries into a fabric of fact.
We want to use the natural curiosity of child
hood and to stimulate that quality in those
who may seem at first to have but little of it.
For why should a boy wait for college to raise
tadpoles from frog’s eggs, or to study plant
molds, or scoop specimens from a pond? Why
shouldn’t he learn to know a flower by its leaf,
an animal by its tracks, a. tree by its bark?
Our youngsters have been eager to know the
whys of growing things; to find out not only
how a machine runs, but why. They are in-
terested in the stars, and eager to find and see
the hidden beauties of the world.

Elizabeth Peabody House has always sought
to make the most of its community resources,
and has been interested in more extended use
of the Metropolitan Park system for citizens,
and especially for children. But transportation
and leaders make getting these children out on
Saturdays, Sundays, and after school some-
thing of a problem. Fortunately, the Middle-
Sex Fells is near at hand. There a child may
tramp for miles without hearing even the honk
of an automobile. And there is also the Blue
Hills Reservation and the nearby seashore.
Once there, children may enjoy themselves to
their hearts’ content.

Our science program is carried on through—
out the year, for the environs of Boston afford
facilities for studying forestry and geology,
and for collecting specimens. In the summer,
much of our science work has been done at
our camp in Sharon, Camp Gannet,‘ only
twenty-five miles from Boston. Its location is
ideal for nature hikes, exploration, and the
collection and preparation of nature specimens.

A Camp Museum

Until the hurricane leveled it, we had a
museum at camp. There the science work was
planned in summer, although the program was
carried on out of doors. But it provided a
headquarters and a clearing house for projects
and a center of activity. It was an old building
with an air of mystery about it—-—a former
garage, rebuilt, painted and transformed by the
campers themselves. There were two rooms

10 SCIENCE INDOORS AND OUT

with screened windows on all sides. The
rooms were carefully dusted and cared for by
the museum “curators,” appointed to such
posts of honor by the campers because of
scientific knowledge. The larger room was
used as an exhibition hall, the smaller for the
biological laboratory. All equipment, shelves
and exhibit cases, were built by the children
from scrap lumber and chicken wire.

Picture a group of boys taking turns in
carrying in a pail full of interesting things for
display; or a proud camper, exhibiting to his
family on visitors’ day the leaf prints which he
had made, or his rock collection, or the camp
curiosity corner and charts explaining the
growth of trees, or the thousand and one things
to be seen.

The camp museum was an open book, ex-
hibiting the wonders of natural science as
they revealed themselves to children. Exhibits
varied from time to time and might include
anything from leaf prints to exhibits of the
life cycle of an insect, or studies of soil con-
servation and erosion control. The biological
laboratory facilitated the study of the develop-
ment of fish and frog eggs and such micro-
scopic organisms as could be found in fresh
water'pools, and was the center for preparation
and construction of museum exhibits. The boys
also built a turtle pond and a rock aquarium to
house specimens.

And a Nature Trail as Well

One of their most interesting projects was
the nature trail. There the campers learned to
study “nature in the raw,” and many fas-
cinating experiences; were theirs. They
learned not only how things look, but how
they smell and taste and sound. Cleverly
written little waterproof tags, placed near
things to be observed, marked the trail and
lured one on. First came a bird sanctuary
started by campers. Then a termite colony,
with headquarters in an old tree stump. One
division of the trail leads to the beach, Where
swamp life might be studied in a nearby pond.
Along the trail were challenging charts and
questions. And at the end of the trail stood
the museum.

Nature Instruction Programs

Correlating the indoor and outdoor aspects
of the program are the nature instruction pro-

SCIENCE INDOORS AND OUT 11

grams. These include studies of birds, flowers,
trees, insects, rocks, stars, aquatic life and
animal life. The textbook is nature itself, with
the camp library for reference. Collections are
made for the museum. Work is done on the
nature trail. Nature handcraft is thoroughly
enjoyed, particularly by the younger children,
who make smoke prints of leaves to take home.

An outstanding contribution of the forestry
class was the construction of an Indian village.
Some years ago a small piece of land was re-
forested by the children and an Indian village
was built of the salvaged trees. It consists of
a small clearing in the woods with four leans—
to, a council ring, flag pole, and a small place
for outdoor cooking. The village has been used
for overnight camping parties and for classes
in pioneering. During the season when girls
are at Camp Gannett, the village is used for
sleeping quarters for boys. The village pro—
vides for them a suggestive illustration of the
values of pioneer organization and the princi—
ples of forestry and woodcraft.

Projects which include research and special
work by the children stimulate competition
and give opportunity for the recognition of
achievement. The child receives a mimeographed
certificate signifying that he has become a junior
forester, a naturalist, a biologist, according to his
accomplishment, and is given a special place at
council fire ceremonies. The children work hard
for such recognition and receive their certificates
with great enthusiasm and appreciation.

For children Who
do not stay for
long peniods at
Camp Gannett,
there is a special
all-day and over-
night program.
Such children are
taken almost daily
to camp from Bos—
t o n in s m a 1 1
groups They
sleep in the In—
dian Village, if
they remain over—
night, and do their
own cooking.
Every moment of
their stay at camp
is full of interest
for them.

During spring vacation, nature institutes
are held at the camp, and science clubs are
brought out from Boston. for special programs
such as tree study, or the collection and sup-
pression of insect pests. These programs have

interesting speakers and are illustrated by
movies.

Indoor Science Clubs

From the beginning it was felt that a
properly handled science program should be a
year-round one. Such a program can be ex-
ceedingly helpful in aiding the child with his
school work. Geography, history, painting,
drawing, reading and many other activities
which were formerly considered dull tasks
often take on new interest through the light
which a science program can shed upon them.
Although in summer‘ the program is properly
almost entirly an out—of—doors one, it is natural
when school begins in the fall to continue the
program in Elizabeth Peabody House.

The dream of many a boy is a complete
laboratory of his own where he can experiment
and discover things. To many children who
participate in our science activities, this dream
becomes a reality. Our equipment is not
elaborate. Most of it was donated by interested
individuals and institutions. We do, however,

Members ot the Science Department of Elizabeth
Peabody House preparing their exhibits tor the
Fifth Annual Science Fair held last February

o

 

12 SCIENCE INDOORS AND OUT

have a room equipped with laboratory tables
and gas and running water, as well as a small
dark room for photography. Lack of equip-
ment has made adequate apparatus and suffi-
cient supplies a challenge in themselves. With
the help of an art instructor, test tube racks
have been made from old plywood. Glue bottles
were turned into alcohol lamps. And from time
to time discarded materials have been donated
from college laboratories, often bringing with
them the active interest of the donating pro-
fessors.

It is easier for a settlement to 'get volunteer
leaders for science groups than for other types
of work. For this reason a varied program can
be offered. By using the particular interest of
the child possibly photography or chemistry—
and limiting membership in a club to ten, the
initial interest can be widened to include an al-
most limitless range of supplemental activities
in such fields as aircraft, biology, and many
others. One group may want to prepare news-
paper, another to broadcast a radio sketch,
and there is a steady growth of interest.

Our various science-clubs begin to work with
boys and girls as young as seven, and some
members of our groups are as old as eighteen
or twenty. The activities include experimenta-
tion, popular science talks and demonstrations,
trips to industrial plants or museums, radio
broadcasts, publication of'science news, and
opportunities for members to get practical ex-
perience in the application of science to their
every day lives. The clubs meet once a week
for discussion and laboratory work. The
:children study and experiment at home. In
addition, there are special meetings which
supplement this program.

Annual Science Fair

Each child is encouraged to tackle a prob-
lem and 'continue research in it until he has
found the solution._ Once a year the work of
the individual and of the clubs crystalizes at
the Annual Science Fair with its exhibits and
demonstrations. The clubs choose their own
subjects, and the individual members of the
group work on research projects, helped by the
club leaders who act in an advisory capacity.

The Annual Science Fair usually presents
exhibits prepared by about 150 boys and girls.
These are not ordinary, “dead” exhibits. Every
exhibitor is on hand to demonstrate and ex-

plain the results of his research. Numerous
industrial, educational, and scientific concerns
cooperate with advice and technical assistance.
The projects presented are important com-
mercially, or in their presentation of scientific
information. ’

Last year about 2,500 people attended the
Science Fair in the four hours that it was open
to the general public. News of the fairs is
covered by the leading press and radio
agencies. Some of the Science Fair exhibits,
such as the chemical man which was exhibited
two years ago, attracted widespread attention
both on the radio and through the press. The
exhibits are of value not only to their makers
but to parents and the general public. They
give the children an opportunity to interpret
what science means to them, and what can be
done by such clubs. They give the individual
child a sense of achievement in the application
of what he has learned.

A Group Enterprise

The aim of our program has been group
enterprise, carried on by the individual mem-
bers of the group under the leader’s guidance.
The scientific problem selected must be such
that it can be divided among the individuals
and then worked out in group experience.

Take, for instance, the problem of oxygen
and its relation to daily life. Members set out
to find out what oxygen is, where it is found,
its manifold uses, and then to relate these facts
to their daily experience. Centering all activi-
ties of the group around one such problem at
a time, the work proceeds through planned ex-
periments, demonstrations, notebooks, editing
a science journal, collection of specimens, and

' the planning of exhibits. All these train the

hands, eyes and minds of the boys. Concerning
the problem, we ask—What are you trying
to find out? What are you going to use? What
did you particularly observe? What are your
conclusions? How do they apply to everyday
life? And on these questions we base our out-
line for experiments.

Last year and the year before, the General
Electric Company invited one of our outstand-
ing boys to go to Schenectady, New York, as
the company’s guest at its laboratories to par-
ticipate in a non-commercial radio program
called “Excursions in Science.” In 1937, the

(Continued on page 47)

Leadership, Organization and Program Making

Boys' Club
. Groups

A few suggestions

for democratic pro-

cedure in the boys'
club program

believe that the most effective results in youth
development are obtained not through direct
verbal instruction, but rather within a favorable,
stimulating and happy environment containing the
right living relationships and large opportunities
for engaging in interesting, worthwhile activities

of varied kinds.

The following suggestions are designed pri-
marily to be of help to those leaders who are con-
cerned with questions of recreational leadership,
organization, and program-making in boys’ club
groups. Many of the principles and procedures
recommended, however, will apply equally well to
girls’ clubs.

INCREASINGLY leaders of youth are coming to

General Observations and Principles

In work with recreational groups and clubs an
informal, friendly, democratic atmosphere should
be maintained in which unnecessary institutional
restrictions and controls are absent.

Basic to effective work is an adult leadership
with the disposition and capacity to respect the
individuality of each member of the group, and
possessing insight into youth nature and needs,
understanding of democratic procedures. and
broad social and cultural equipment and vision.

Not only must the environment be informal,
friendly, and democratic, but also rich in stimula-

 

Courtesy Iowa WPA

tion to enjoyable and creative participation and
expression.

lf richness of experience is to be made possi—
ble, a plan must be developed that encourages the
expression of individual interests and abilities on
the part of the members. The fullest recreational
expression of the members is the aim, and not the
execution of some ready—made program.

Full freedom must be provided for members of
the group to make and execute plans on their own
level of interest, need, and ability, and at their

own pace.

Since the individual is the focus of concern,
each member should have a sense of being im-
portant and of having status in the club. The
sense of “at-homeness” and of “belonging” is one
of very strong force in work with boys of club age.

All members should share in the obligations as
well as the privileges of the club. Responsibility
and self-direction are essentials in democratic citi-
zenship and are learned through acceptance of re-
sponsibility and of the consequences of one’s own

acts or the acts of his group.
Potentially, the program of the club is as broad

as the total range of experiences and relationships
that grow out of the common interests and activi-

ties of the members of the group. Actually, the
program of the club will and should be limited by
factors of time, the nature of the sponsoring

13

14 IN BOYS’ CLUB GROUPS

agency, aptitudes and interests of the leader, and
the adequacy of physical facilities.

It should be kept in mind at all times that the
individual boy, with his distinctive needs, differ-
ences, and interests, is our constant and dominant
concern, and not the promotion of any particular
organizational scheme, or any particular set of ac-
tivities, or the realization of any preconceived
skills or points of view. The leader is interested
in activities, of course, but chiefly to the extent
that they conform to individual and grouP inter-
ests and needs.

Leadership .

In club work, as in any work involving human
relationships, leadership is the key factor. Any
person who assumes responsibility for the group
experience of boys in their leisure time is assum-
ing a task of tremendous proportions. Let no one
take the responsibility lightly; the human values
involved are too important. Consider the follow-
ing suggestions regarding leadership.

The leader should be emotionally mature. This
is utterly essential to proper leadership. VVhat-
ever the nature or purpose of the club, the lead-
er’s personality will have its influence on the boys.
Emotional immaturity unlits the leader for doing
the best job possible.

The leader should be interested in seeing boys
grow as happy, constructive, self-responsible
citizens.

The leader should be committed to the demo—
cratic respect for personality, and should know
and practice the techniques of democratic pro-
cedure at all times.

The leader should be equipped with patience
and a large sense of humor. Human growth is a
slow process.

The leader must always be honest and depend-
able in all his dealings with the group. If a leader
thinks he can deceive a group of boys regarding
his motives and desires, he deceives only himself.

The leader is both counselor and “pal.” He
must, therefore, maintain a certain dignity with—
out becoming stilted and grave in his manner, and
must maintain the natural relationship of friend
without becoming sentimental in manner.

The leader should understand “boy psychol-
ogy.” He should understand and have respect for
the longings, ambitions, interests, desires, urges,
and problems of boys of club age. WithOut this
understanding and respect he cannot ever guide

the recreational experiences of his boys as he
should.

It is not enough that a leader should under-
stand “boy psychology” in general. He should
know each boy in his group—his interests, capaci—
ties, problems, and needs. Among other things
this means an understanding of the social forces
in the community which are 'affecting the boy’s
life for good or for bad. For example, if it is at
all possible, it is wise for the leader to become ac-
quainted with the home life of each boy. He
should also know the several organizations to
which the boys belong and what the several social
agencies are doing which are trying to serve the
boys’ leisure time needs.

The leader should be attractive in personal ap-
pearance, fair and open—minded in all his behavior,
and versatile in his ability to follow out interests
which develop in his group.

The leader should be an active citizen in his
community, fully alive physically, enjoy social re-
lationships, and be a constant student of current
social thought and movement. Boys’ club work,
it must be kept in mind constantly, is much more
than a matter of amusing boys. It is a matter of
helping them to become capable of increasingly
more complete living. The leader, therefore, must
be growing constantly in the completeness of his
own life——physically, morally, spiritually, socially.

Organizing a Club

One of the most basic things to keep in mind in
connection with the question of organization is
this—there is no one fundamentally sound basis
upon which all types of groups should be organ-
ised. In previous suggestions it has been urged
that the individual is the focus of concern and
that the “club process” is simply an effective
means for contributing to the individual in terms
of his recreational interests, capacities, and needs.
If this is our point of view, then it seems clear
that the form an organization assumes should be
suited to the peculiar purposes which are to be
realized by the group. Thus Club A and Club B
may have different forms of organization because
of the different purposes of the two groups.
Furthermore, form of organization assumed by
Club A may change from time to time as Club
A changes its purposes. In short, organization
should always be secondary to purpose; it is a
means, not an end.

IN BOYS’ CLUB GROUPS 15

Present practice in connection with organization
is extremely varied. For example, one leader may
rush into the task of organizing his club the first
time he meets them. He attempts to place upon
them some type of standard ready-made organiza-
tion machinery. This leader is at one extreme of
the organization scale. At the other extreme is the
leader who allows the purpose and the activity of
the group to determine its organization.

Let us look briefly at certain types of groups as
they relate to leadership and organization.

There is the club which is discovered after it is
already formed, in which some natural motiva-
tion has brought the boys together and created the
group consciousness. This group may be ade-
quately unified from the start, knowing what it
wants, and proceeding to put its wishes into prac-
tice. This club will require little direction from
the leader during the flrst few meetings. His con-
cern should be to suggest such organizational
machinery as will protect the original interests of
the members, preserve their initiative and self-
dependence, and give encouragement to further
group effort and to the broadening of purpose.

There is the club which is already formed when
the leader comes to it, but which is wandering
about both in its purpose and program. In such a
situation the boys need the leader’s help in clari-
fying their ideas and pur-
poses. Organization of such

Whenever possible. the program of the

quantity and type will be needed as will clearly
develop the club purpose, make easy the carrying
through of club efforts to SUCcessful conclusion,
place upon each member responsibility which he is
capable of achieving, and expand the satisfactions
of each member of the group.

There is the group which is yet unformed when
the leader comes to it. It may be a neighborhood
group of boys which a leader desires to organize
into a club. It may be a group of boys in a
church or in neighboring churches. It may be a
group of boys with one or more common interests
in a community center. In any event, the leader
and the boys must make clear to themselves the
interests and purposes that animate them and
must devise such organizational machinery as will
make the club an effective vehicle for the expres-
sion of their interests, and as will stimulate the
club to broaden and enlarge its interests. At no
point in the planning of the organization is the
leader justified in forcing his ideas and plans upon
the club. He must endeavor to sense the latent
interests of the group and its capacities and sug-
gest organization procedures and program activi-
ties in line with them.

In making plans for the organization of any
new group, it should be kept in mind that before
persons of any age act in accordance with a plan,
they must be ready to act.
There are two very. good rea-

boys' club will include winter sports

 

' ’ a "  ‘ C‘ .ii, . ll ‘ . o - a} ' a“ '. -
.. ., .i ' “he. ' 1'... 5"" ‘ 3' m}  ‘
Courtesy Readfng, Pa” Department of Public Playgrounds and Recreation

16 IN BOYS’ CLUB GROUPS

sons why a leader who tries to “put over” on a
club his own objectives and program has not
adopted the best procedure: (I) To the extent
that the leader has prepared group opinion in ad-
vance so that the members are in readiness for his
suggestions, to that extent will the conditions be
favorable for success. If readiness is not created,
the program or policy proposals of the leader

start under a definite handicap and each step that_

follows in the development of the leader’s plans
may easily develop hostility. (2) The chief argu-
ment against the attempt of the leader to “put
over” his own created plan, even if the group
should be receptive, is that through this procedure
the boys are being denied the opportunity to know
the joys of choosing, planning, and creating. We
learn initiative by being given the opportunity to
initiate. If we are concerned with producing boys
who know how to develop intelligent and respon-
sible plans and purposes, we must give them this
opportunity in their club work. If a leader would
maintain the interest of his boys on an ever ‘in-
creasing basis, he should so guide a project or
activity or plan that the boys share experience
with him and with each other at all stages of the
development of the project.

The Mechanics of Club Organization. In line
with the foregoing discussion, it is obvious that
the first meeting of the group should be directed
by the club leader, not for the purpose of “sell-
ing” some pre-arranged scheme of his own, but to
guide the group in frank discussion of the aims
and purposes of the club. The purpose of.this
first meeting is as much to get acquainted as it is
to discuss details of organization and objectives.
Even if the members are “in readiness” to pro—
ceed with haste, it is wise for the leader to “slow
down” the proceedings so that interests and pur-
poses are clearly defined. The leader is concerned
with developing a large amount of enthusiasm in
the first meeting, but growing, cumulative interest
is to be preferred to high enthusiasm of a super-
ficial nature which is not based on full under:
standing of and loyalty to the interests then ani-
mating the members.

Such matters as choice of a club name, emblem,
colors, slogan, password, code, initiation ritual,
membership, relations between the leader and the
club, meeting place, writing of constitution, elec-
tion of officers, may be discussed in an informal
manner without any motions or resolutions being
passed. If, however, a number of these matters
have been discussed among the members prior to

the meeting to such an extent that they are defi-
nite as to what they Want, positive action may be
taken at the first meeting.

Whatever the content of the discussions, they
should be as informal as possible. If the group
is too large to conduct a free round table discus-
sion, it may be wise to adopt some form of par-
liamentary procedure even at this first meeting.

The meeting should not end without the desig-
nation by the group of a temporary chairman and
secretary to function until a more permanent form
of organization has been set up. A constitutional
committee (three or five members) may be ap-
pointed or elected to draw up a constitution which
will be presented to the group at its next meeting.
The time and place of the next meeting should be
determined. (See a later paragraph for sugges-
tions regarding club headquarters.) Dues or an
assessment may be collected in order to cover im-
mediate expenses.

Again, it should be emphasized that the details
of organization mechanics should be developed as
the club functions and modified as the program
grows and changes. Such organization features as
colors, emblem, slogan, pass—word, code, and ini-
tiation ritual may be entirely out of harmony with
the interests and purposes which the club pro-
gram will carry out. Whatever the club aims may
be the organization should be devised to fit these
aims, and should be so flexible as to permit modi-
fication as club. aims change.

Adoption of a Constitution. It is well for the

" leader to work with the constitutional committee

in an advisory capacity during the drawing up of
the club constitution. By all means avoid making
the discussion and adoption of the constitution a
tedious and interest—killing task. Depending upon
the experience of the boys, the length of the con-
stitution, and the number of debatable provisions
in the constitution, it may be Wise to consider
only portions of the constitution at any one meet-
ing. Whatever the final procedure decided upon,
do not let discussions of mechanics interfere with
the development of interest in worthwhile club
activities.

The following outline is suggested as a basis
for a constitution which can be used by most
clubs. It can be simplified or enlarged in terms of
the interests and purposes of the club members.

Outline of the Constitution

Preamble. The preamble states the ideals and purposes
of the organization in general terms.

IN BOYS’ CLUB GROUPS 17

Article 1. Name of organi-
zation.

Article 2. Purpose. (If a
preamble is not used, the pur—
pose of the group can be
stated at this point.)

Article 3. A. Grounds for
admission of new members.
B. Membership quota (if

any).
C. Method of application and

admission of new members.

Article 4. Meetings and

quorum.
A. Time and place of regu-

lar meetings.

B. Order of business (at reg-
ular meetings).

C. Provisions for calling of
special meetings.

D. Number constituting
quorum.

Article 5. A. Elective officers.

B. The terms of these officers.

C. Method of election.

Article 6. Duties and powers of each officer.

Article 7. Committees: A. Standing committees, ap-
pointed or elected, and terms of these committees.

B. Duties and powers of each standing committee.

c. Special committee's.

Article 8. A. Minor officers (such as captains, editors,
etc.).

B. Terms of oHice, and appointment or election.

C. Duties and powers of each of these officers.

Article 9. A. Method of drawing up budget.

13. Authorization and procedure in payment of bills.

Article 10. A. Method of replacement of vacancies in

elective ofiices.

B. Method of impeachment of elective officers.

Article 11. Rules of parliamentary law. (Designation
of authorities to be followed.)

Article 12. Method of amendment of constitution.

The foregoing outline may be modified in any
way that the group sees fit. A number of the
articles may be made into by-laws if the group so
chooses. The form of. the constitution is not
highly important. The main point is to secure a
practical working document which expresses the
mind of the club members and is sufficiently flexi—
ble to fit changing purposes and activities.

Order of Business. Although it is not necessary
for a club to adopt a regular order of business,
experience has proved‘that the following of reg-
ular business procedure is in many cases a saver
of time and effort. In most cases a regular order
of procedure will involve: roll call, reading of
minutes, recognition of bills and communications,
report of standing committees, report of special

 

There is never-failing interest for
boys in model airplane construction

committees, unfinished business, new business,
and the planned program for that meeting. This
or any other particular order of business may be
suspended at the suggestion of the leader and the
vote of the members. The reason for wanting to
change order might be a planned special program
which would consume all of the time available for
the meeting, the absence of members who are in—
terested in certain business. the fact that few are
present when an important matter is due for con—
sideration, or some similar reason.

Group Headquarters. The meeting room in
which the boys have their headquarters and the
buildings in which their work is carried on are
important elements in the effectiveness and worth
of the club program. The headquarters and work
and play rooms can be so designed as to stimu-
late activity and to develop new interests. Mem-
bers of a club should be able to feel as much at
ease in their meeting room as they would in a
vacant lot or in their own homes. We have earlier
pointed out that the feeling of belonging, of “at
homeness,” is an important factor in boy develop—
ment. The headquarters room should be simply
furnished, with sturdy material, and clean. If it
can be arranged, it is desirable that the boys fur—
nish the room themselves in accordance with their
own wishes. Meeting rooms in modern commu—
nity centers, schools, or churches, which must be

18 IN BOYS" CLUB GROUPS

shared by several groups, can be so arranged that
groups of approximately the same age can share
the same rooms and facilities and have easy con-
tact with each other. Where it is necessary to use
a school classroom as headquarters, the leaders
must take responsibility for leaving the room neat
and orderly at the close of the meeting. Pen-
nants, banners, posters, and other decorations
and equipment should be removed in order that
the room can be used for class purposes the
following day. ,

Discipline. Interest and environment, including
group morale and opinion, should be utilized in
controlling behavior, rather than direct disciplinary
control! and authority. When boys are interest-
ingly and happily occupied, when quarters are 'at-
tractive and roomy, when there is democratic co-
operation in planning and carrying out policies
and activities, there is little likelihood of what is
generally called misconduct.
A membership that has been
guided in assuming real re-
sponsibility and in func—
tioning creatively will de-
develop good group morale
and standards and will only
rarely require the direct ex—
ertion of adult authority.
In no event should the
leader attempt to superim-
pose upon the grOUp his
own “code of behavior.”
Pledges to abide by codes or laws, even when
voted by the group, are not desirable features of
a club program. When confronted with a situa-
tion of misconduct or failure to adjust properly,
the leader and those members of the group not
involved in the situation should study carefully
the underlying individual difficulties and attempt
their correction rather than resort to punishment.
This procedure is not as simple as the exertion
of direct adult or group authority, but it secures
infinitely better results in terms of “boy develop-
ment.”

Records. Within the life-history of any club it
is always possible that there will be a change in
adult leadership. To the end that the new leader
may become acquainted with the problems and
achievements of the club and its several individual
members, it is wise for the leader to keep a per-
sonal record covering a number of informational
items. For example, this record should contain a
description of the original formation of the group,

him up in a city

"Everyone is interested in the boy. He is
one of the most fascinating. baffling, in-
triguing problems in our civilization. Noth-
ing is wrong with him. He just doesn't fit
into life as we have organized it today. He
needs the out-of—doors and we often coop
His abounding energy
calls for a forty-acre field. and we confine
him in city streets and tenements. His un-
conscious protest we label cussednessI and
his uncontrollable urge for fun we adults
call lawlessness."—R. K. Atkinson.

its achievements, and its changing interests and
activities. It should also contain information re-
garding the relationships of each member in the
group, and general information regarding his
home and neighborhood relationships. In short,
the leader should preserve for his own use, and
for the use of any future new leader, such infor-
mation as will be of help in planning and carrying
out a growing program of varied, interesting
activities.

Simple attendance and membership records, as
well as permanent records of the minutes of all
meetings, will be kept by the club secretary.

Inter-Club Council. If several clubs are organ-
ized within a community center, church, school, or
other agency, it is wise to have an Inter—Club
Councillcomposed of representatives from the
various clubs. This Council can function in a
number of ways. For example,  if the situa-
tion is a community center,
the Council can study the
purpose of a new club
which is seeking member-
ship in the center and de—
termine whether the club is
worthy of membership. (2)
It can, in consultation with
the community center di-
rector and his staff, exercise
the power of conferring
upon a new club a charter
which is good as long as the
objectives are fulfilled as set forth in their con-
stitution and as approved by the Council. (3) The
Council can serve the important function of help—
ing to establish the feeling on the part of the
several groups that they are a definite part of
the whole community center organization. (4)
The Council can promote cooperative social and
recreational activities involving the participation

of all clubs.

Deve10ping the Pro gram

Types of Program Procedure. Procedures of pro-
gram deve10pment in club work can be grouped
into three general classifications:

There are clubs that are subjected to a mini-
mum of domination by the adult leader and are
fairly free to plan as they wish in terms of their
growing interests and experience, but nevertheless
function along time-honored lines of organization
and program activities. They choose a name, elect
officers, adopt a constitution, choose a pin and

IN BOYS" CLUB GROUPS ' 19

colors, elect captains, appoint committees, learn
parliamentary procedure, conduct hikes, play a
few athletic games, arrange parties, and similar
activities. This is the traditional procedure in de-
veloping a program and organization. We have
set forth these procedures in brief detail in pre-
ceding paragraphs f or any who may want to fol-
low them.

There are clubs that specialize in some one ac-
tivity, such as dramatics, music, athletics, nature
study and activities, public speaking, etc. Such
clubs are often highly valuable both to the mem-
bers and to the larger program of the agency
under which the specialized club operates. Even
though it may be true that there are larger possi—
bilities of personality growth and enjoyment in an
expanded club program, there are situations in
which a group interested in dramatics, for ex-
ample, is not greatly interested in other forms of
activity. The group leader, therefore, must not
ignore the fact that interests may be highly spe-
cialized, so that the attempt to substitute a new
activity for the original leads to resentment, irrita—
tion, and sometimes to disruption of the group.

There are clubs that develop a program in terms
of their own most dominant group interests. In
these groups the leader serves in the capacity of
counselor, and responsibility and initiative are
thrown upon the boys at every possible point. The
starting point in these clubs matters little, just so
a whole-hearted interest provides the original im—
petus to organization. With the whole—hearted in—
terest as a foundation (whatever it may be), the
group is helped by a wise, patient,_and versatile
leader to broaden its interests until its activities
cover a wide field.

General Principles of Program Development.

The program should serve the needs of the
group. A long list of activities does not auto-
matically mean that there has been effective club
work. The activities carried on are merely means
by which the end of developing creative, happy,
cooperative, democratic personalities is served.
For this reason the program must always be flexi-
ble and varied and not traditional and mechanical.

The program should expand in terms of the ex—
panding interests of the members. Needs and in-
terests are not the same things. Present interests
are always the beginning point in striving to real-
ize aims that are based on needs. When we push
program development ahead of interest and en-
joyment, we lose our group. The central law of

learning is Whole—hearted and enjoyable participa-
tion in activity. We learn most when we enjoy
what we are doing and we tend to repeat what we
enjoy. This is not to say that the leader must not
strive constantly to broaden present interests of

the members. If left to its own devices a boys’

club may continue indefinitely to play basketball,
without beginning to realize the possibilities for
development inherent in even this comparatively
narrow interest.

Discovering and expanding the interests of the
club members is, then, a continuous process. The
leader, therefore, must be constantly alert to note
new intef‘ests as they appear and to give these in-
terests opportunity for expression. We have
warned previously, however, that it is important
not to “force” an activity too much. A leader’s

, enthusiasm for an activity does not always repre-

sent the enthusiasm of the group. Through con-
versation with individual members of the group
from time to time, through friendly participation
with them in their activities, through observation
as they' talk, work, and play, through studies of
their hobbies, through tests and games of varied
sorts—through these and similar means the leader
can discover expanding group interests.

The program should be flexible and growing.
The program should be so flexible that changes
can be made as needs and interests come to light,
so that there is constant adaptation. This does not
mean that no activities may be started which will
require a long period of time. On the contrary, it
is wise for the group to map out a tentative pro-
gram outline covering a period of months, but
with such flexibility that new interests may be
brought in and utilized at the first opportunity.
There should always be enough variety introduced
so that there is something to challenge and stimu-
late the members, and monotony voided.

The program should provide for a maximum of
initiation and participation by the boys themselves.
The importance of this principle becomes obvious
when we recognize that the program is for the
boys (and not the boys for the program), and that
enjoyment and learning flow from creative plan-
ning and whole—hearted participation. Definite
help from the leader is necessary in many cases,
but his role is that of guide rather than that of
dictator.

As long as an activity yields enjoyment to the
boys, and as long as it continues to serve their
needs, it should be continued as a fundamental

(Continued on page 47)

What: They Say About Recreation

“ HERE IS SOMETHING new in the world today,
I something out of which a new and finer

world can be built—and it is civilized lei—
sure.”——-Dr. Harry A. Overstreet.

“I believe profoundly in democracy. Democracy
is a living, vital thing, changing its pattern with
the generations, and living because it changes. It
has evolved through many centuries ; it has known
contributions from many races. But if history
tells us anything at all about democracy, it is that
the way to its achievement is not the way of com-
pulsion but the way of freedom. No state ever
became a democracy because .it was compelled to
be. Democracy is an outgrowth of the voluntary
reactions of free people.”-—-—Dr. H arry Woodburu
Chase in Planning the Future with Youth.

“We don’t have to sell recreation in terms of
some intrinsic goal. We' can interpret it as it is.
What it is is something which meets the basic
needs of human beings. And we are striving to
see whether it can also meet the needs of a demo-

cratic society. That is all.”
——Eduard C. Lindemau.

“Children have got to have, first, the raw ma—
terial out of which to build bodies, wills and per-
sonalities. Then we have got to surround them
with every opportunity for development to their
fullest powers. There must be a community ac—
ceptance of recreation as a vital part in com—
munity living. . . . We’ve got to begin thinking of
recreation as a dynamic for character. . . . Crime
and delinquency will never be reduced until the
community decides to do something about it, to
mobilize all its forces to meet clearly defined
needs. You can’t cut welfare budgets and crime
budgets at the same time.”-——Ethel Collester,
President, Iowa State Parent-Teacher Association.

“We make a ridiculous fetish of health nowa-
days. . . . Let us, therefore, give play, recreation,
and the other popular arts their proper place be-
side the fine arts, and thus avoid the common

error" which degrades play to a medical instru—
ment.”—Richard C abo’t.

20

“Beauty pays. And~if we ever should attain to
universal enthusiasm for it many of our sorest
economic problems would disappear. We then
would find more of the satisfaction in activities
that are not costly. We would have a standard of
living. as distinguished from the standard of
spending. And that, after all, may be what we
must have before we can climb the heights of sat-
isfying life. On those heights dwells serenity, and

serenity and beauty are sisters.”
—fames C. Derieux.

“Are we doing the best we can to prevent the
delinquent child or youth from becoming more
lawless and more of a threat to the security and
happiness of the rest of us? Are we doing the
best we can to check the forming of delinquent
habits and to turn his energies and interests into
pursuits that are permissible in society as now or-
ganized and that will release him from his anti—
social drives? Above all, are we agreed upon the
most effective measures to prevent children from
becoming anti-social and delinquent?” — From
Progress Report, issued by the New Jersey Juve-
nile Delinquency Commission.

“Leisure time provides opportunity for one of
life’s most enriching experiences—the making of
friends. A beautiful sight or experience is twice
as beautiful when shared with a friend. On the
streets, in the factories, in the rooming houses, in
the schoolroom and even in the church many
lonely people may be found. Being a friend is one
of the finest leisure time activities.”—-From Youth
Action in the Use of Leisure Time.-

“We are coming to realize that there must be in
the new leisure some room for self-direction, for
grown—ups and children alike; that recreation can
be too much regimented, and too exclusively pur-
sued in artificial groups. . . . As in many other
forms of community enterprise, emphasis in the
field of recreation is now being laid on helping
individuals to develop their own programs in ac-
cordance with their own tastes and desires, rather
than in developing patterns into which the indi-
vidual must fit.”—Joaun.a C. Colcord in Your
Community.

Dramatics for the Camp Community

Some informal suggestions are offered
the inexperienced dramatics counsellor

HE FIRST JOB of dramatic counsel-
Tling in camp is likely to prove a

distinct shock to the well-trained
dramatics person, particularly if she has had
experience in producing and directing for only
college or community groups. So much that
_ has been considered of primary importance
must be forgotten or dispensed with; so much
that seems new and strange must be learned.
The job here is not professional, in the usual
meaning of that word. It is a recreational-edu-
cational job, and as such its aims are different
from those of the professional theater, even
before the special camp problems within the
wider recreation program are taken into con-
sideration.

What would you think of the following as a
fairly comprehensive definition of camp (or
any recreational—educational) dramatics? “For
the purposes of a summer camp program,
dramatics may be considered a recreational-
educational activity which has as its purpose
the provision of opportunities for the develop-
ment of the individual and of the group
through increasingly satisfactory participation
in dramatic activity of either a formal or in-
formal nature.”

That probably sounds like a large order, and
it is, but there is more to come when the special
problems of camp recreational activity come to
be considered. You see, when Thespis gets to
camp, she is likely, along with the rest of us,
to go a bit wild. The
poor dramatics counsel-

By KATE HALL
Washington, D. C.

"In the field of human relationships the AS

Now the job of dramatic counsel—
ling is a tough one, not because it
is really hard, but because it is
different from other forms of dramatic work.
even within the recreational-educational field.
Time is almost always important in the world
of the theater, but in camp it becomes a par-
ticularly troublesome problem. First of all,
something new must be planned for every eve-
ning in the week, including Sundays, if the
dramatics counsellor is in charge of all evening
recreation, as well as play production——and she
almost always is. Next, a suitable place for
preparation and performance must be found.
And finally, one must somehow get hold of
the performers for rehearsal. This is no easy
matter, since dramatics usually has to take a
subordinate place to sports in camp life. This
last fact must be faced, and made the best of.
It is the normal thing in outdoor life and is
probably a good thing for most of the children

involved.

Some of the Problems

Scarcity of time plus scarcity of equipment
equals what? There you have a neat little
problem for the young counsellor to solve. The
whole business becomes largely a matter of
improvisation, adaptation, makeshift and in-
genuity. Often the project must be put over

by sheer force of personality.
Here it is Monday, the

opening night of camp.
dramatics counsel-

lor, whether experienced
or not, suddenly finds
herself confronted with a
situation which calls for
immediate and drastic
action. Often enough
there is little or no ma-
terial at hand. Hastin she
must cast about to find
the right thing to do.'

camp may make a significant contribution
to the spiritual growth of the indiyidual.
In a camp where the dominant note IS |oy-
ousness and a zest for living there will
be many opportunities for the development
of spiritual qualities. This expression may
take the form of the construction of beau-
tiful things from actual materialsI or it

may use dramaticsl dancing or poetry as
its medium."—From The Place of the Or-

ganized Camp in the Field of Education.

lor you are probably in
charge of that program,
even though it will most
likely be given over to
games and Singing, so that'
the children may get ac-
quainted. Tuesday night,
if the weather permits,
you are planning a camp

21

22 DRAMATICS FOR THE CAMP COMMUNITY

tire; one of the counsellors has agreed to tell
some stories and the dancing teacher to give
a short solo performance. On Wednesday
night, however, you really must bring the
children actively into the program. They must
feel that they, and not the counsellors, are to
be the active force in the summer program.
The director has probably suggested that you
work up a little play or pantomime.

At first, forty-eight hours seems a terrible
short time for preparing a dramatic per—
formance, but later in the summer you will
come to be thankful for such an unusual dis—
pensation of Providence. There is nothing
you can do about it tonight until the children
have gone to bed. Then, if you can catch the
harassed head counsellor, you must snatch a
few minutes with her to go over the lists and
decide which children will be best to use in the
opening performance. In itself this is a ticklish
problem. If you are new to this camp, it will
be twice as hard.

You and the head counsellor must thrash
out such questions as these: Shall you use old
campers who have done things like this in their
former summers and can be quickly licked into
shape for entertaining purposes? Or would it
be better to draw the new ones in at once, not
only to see what they can do, but to make them
feel right away that they are an active factor
in the camp life? Should you mix the groups
in order to help them get acquainted more
quickly, and perhaps run the risk of having the
experienced actors run away with the show?
Shall you use the younger children at the risk
of boring the older, or vice versa? If you use
several groups, how are you to get them all in
for rehearsal? Would it be better to have an
outdoor or an indoor performance? (If you
plan to have it out of doors, you must always
reckon with the weather and be prepared to
adapt the show to an indoor presentation at
the last minute.) Shall you use a set play or
pantomime and hope to get the children to
learn it in such a short time? Or would it be
better to improvise something? Can you de-
pend on the group you have chosen to help
with the improvisation, or will most of the
burden fall on you? Where will you get the
costumes? The scenery? Is there a make-up
box in camp? What general tone should be
given to camp dramatics, anyway? And how
on earth are you to get hold of these children

for rehearsal? As you will see, the answers to
these questions will involve a neat balancing of
the educational and entertainment factors in
the situation.

Tomorrow will be a full day in the camp
calendar: the water and land sports will be
organized; the children must be divided into
age and ability groups; trunks must be un-
packed, shacks cleaned and straightened; the
group must be initiated into all the details of
camp routine. You yourself probably have
charge of a shack of children. You will have
to supervise all their comings and goings for
several days at least, until they are thoroughly
used to things. Also, if the staff is small, you
may be doing some other jobs as incon-
gruously mated with dramatics as office work
for the director or teaching swimming or ten-
nis. Wednesday is likely to prove almost as
busy, and there will be shifting arrangements
in the schedule, and all sorts of emergencies to
meet. Somehow on Tuesday you must get a
dramatic performance for Wednesday night
under way. This first performance will be of
great importance to you in your new job. It
has to “go over big.” And not only that; you
have to be planning ahead for Thursday and
Friday' and all the other nights, and in two
weeks’ time your first big show of the season
is scheduled. In addition, and of far greater
importance, is the effect on the children of this
opening performance and still more of their
part in it. Time is remarkably telescoped in
camp. The spontaneous reaction of the children
actors, stage hands and audience toward this
first night’s performance may well indicate the
success or failure of the entire summer drama-
tics program as an integral and meaningful
part of the total program.

Now all these problems seem quite different
from those you have met with in other situa-
tions. Things are even more confused and
hurried than in the average public school,
where at least you know where to find your
actors whefn you have time to rehearse them!
However, there is much to be said for your

‘comfort: such a job can be done and done well,

because it has been done many times in just
such situations.

A Lesson from the Italian Strolling Players

Perhaps you will remember the Commedia
delle Arte, those delightful Italian strolling

DRAMATICS FOR THE CAMP COMMUNITY ' 23

players of the fifteenth and
sixteenth century? Their
method was almost en—
tirely improvisation and
adaptation. You may find
that you can learn a great
deal from their methods.
A Commedia delle Arte
troupe was made up of a
number of actors and
actresses, each of whom
had become identified for
professional purposes with one type of
character. Most of these had definite names,
and all had completely defined characteristics.
You will remember Pantolone, the Doctor
from Bologna, the Spanish Captain, Arlec-
chino, the maid servants, the zanies, Colum-
bian, and others.

Now, these people had no set speeches, no
script from which to study their lines or busi-
ness. Likely enough they would arrive in a
town in the morning and set up the show—a
bare platform stage with little or no equipment
—in the market square. The head of the com-
pany would post at the entrance a brief
scenario of the story to be acted that day, the
actors would glance through this, and the play
would begin. The scenario served only as an
outline of the action, to keep the incidents

arranged coherently and in a sequence that
made for the best dramatic interest. The

players, finding themselves in a given situation,
were expected to use their own wits in de-
vising extempore dialogue and pantomime. In
the course of time each of these actors must
have become a wizard at invention, and the
troupers acting together for some time would
be able to play upon the theme of the story
with agility and humor. But in spite of their
proficiency in dialogue, their real stock in trade
was pantomime———the suggestion of meaning
by a gesture or a glance, and above all the
creation of a character by bodily posture and
movement.

Just such a method as this might prove
very fruitful to you in your present situation.
Suppose you devise a set of scenarios and set
your children to fill them out with pantomime
and gradually with interpolated dialogue, until

at last they are capable of making up animated
conversations on the’ stage. Another idea

"What is a playI and why do people like
to make plays? A play is not real life.
It is a kind of game played by people
who are pretending to be somebody else'
in a place that is pretending to be an-
other placeI in a time that is pretend-
ing to be another time. . .
all ages love to play this kind of a game.
and to watch other people play it; and 15 witness that such a
they have always liked to do this ever

since the world began."—Marguetite
Fellows Melcher in Offstage.

would be to concoct a
“serial” scenario and carry
your same set of characters
over from week to week.
The interest of both child-
ren and adults in continued-
next-week radio programs

. People of

method would not prove
displeasing to your audi-
ence at any rate. I should
be careful, however, not to
use any of the stock characters from con-
temporary comic strips, animated cartoons or
radio programs, as the stories and acting are
likely to become merely repetitious and imi-
tative. Either story book, legendary or his—
torical characters set in situations which give
rise to considerable action and well-defined
characterization, or “every-day” characters
with whom the children are familiar, set in
ordinary or extraordinary circumstances with
the same requirements, would be productive
of more originality and spontaneity. As for
your actors, this method would give the group
who is handling the “continued story” a chance
really to grow in the art of pantomime and
the improvisation of dialogue. No training
could be more valuable for a group of children
who are especially interested in acting—and
there is always such a group, clamoring to “be
in” every dramatic performance you give. In
addition to the increase in knowledge and skill?
which might come as a result, the recreational
value of dramatics as an outlet for joyous self-k
expression would not be easily forgotten or
lost in using methods such as those outlined

above.

Creative Dramatics

Of much the greatest value, of course, is the
type of dramatic method known in the pro-
gressive school and recreation systems as
“creative dramatics.” It is very difficult to
succeed with creative dramatics, however, un-
less dramatics can be established in your camp

as a regularly scheduled activity, either for a

specially interested group or for all the
campers who may need it. Given this, your
points of emphasis will depend on the needs as
well as the aptitude of the group, but you will

probably want to give as much all-round train-
ing as possible, in the short time allowed by a

24 DRAMATICS FOR THE CAMP COMMUNITY

Camp season, in acting, production, and in the
making or creating of original plays.

This type of dramatic activity is much more
difficult for the counsellor than simply pro—
ducing plays for an audience at stated intervals,
but it has obvious advantages for the partici-
pating group and will prove delightful and
stimulating to the audience as well, if skill-
fully handled from the beginning. The young
actors not only receive a broader training in
expressing character and ‘situation through
flexible use of the body and voice, but they
also learn at the same time to make their own
plays (so much more fun than playing some—
body else’s play!) and to produce these plays
themselves. In addition, you have had a
chance at straightening out various personality
difficulties through the excellent therapeutic
value inherent in this type of dramatic work—
an aim which should never be lost sight
of in any type of recreational-educational

dramatics.

If the level of entertainment for the camp
group is not quite up to par, never mind. Re-
member that your children have had a fair
start toward becoming creators in the theater,
or at least toward having a creative attitude
toward it. This does not mean that you should
encourage or even permit careless or slipshod
work; you must expect and get from the
children the best of which they are capable at
any given period, but only an encouraging atti-
tude on the part of the counsellor is likely to
bring such a condition about.

When, because of pressure of time and other
activities, it is not feasible to conduct an in-
formal but regular class such as the one here
described in a particular camp group, perhaps
a similar plan, combined with the giving of
regular plays- for the entertainment of the
camp audience, may work. At any rate, a little
“creative experiment” never
hurts any group at any
time. While this type of
dramatic work is being
tried in the more progres-
sive schools and recreation lind!' 'See
centers throughout the
country, camp people do
not want to lose the oppor—
tunity to carry on the good
work, and to initiate it for
those children who have

"It drama has been right' it it has given
satisfaction to a group. then as the bus
comes to talte them home when camp is
over. they will be-saying. 'Good-byl Rosa-
you next winter. Wendy!I
The great pleasure of all the arts lies in
happy recall. This is as it should be. for
the mother of the arts was Memory. From
Memory the arts came and they will live
again in minds enriched by their pres-
ence' it they are truly her progeny."

—Abbie Graham in The Girls’ Camp.

never had a chance for this kind of self-ex-
pression. Camps avowedly exist for the pur-
pose of developing both the minds and the
bodies of children, and for giving them a
chance for a good and wholesome time during
the summer. If they are to do any dramatic
work, beyond simple entertainment, which has
lits place very definitely in the scheme of
things, if understood as such, they will develop
more skill, practice more self—reliance, and
enjoy themselves more in the creative drama-
tics field than by just producing plays, how-
ever skillfully they are rehearsed and presented
by the director.

However, in many camps, even this com-
bination may be difficult to achieve amid the
exigencies of the sports program. Moreover, in
the majority of camps the dramatics counsel-
lor is asked to stage as many plays and to use
as many children as possible, and at the same
time to take the children out of the schedule
no more often than she absolutely has to. She
does not have the campers in a class where
she can continuously and progressively help
them to make and produce their own plays; so
she must have on hand a stock of ready-made
plays available and useful for this kind of pro-
duction: Anyone who has tried will agree that
assembling this material is not so easy as it
may sound.

Plays to Use

Many of the plays which are best adapted
to camp use carry royalty, and the camp which
can or is willing to pay for these is very rare.
In cases where the royalty charges refer to any
kind of production, it is best to write directly
to the author or to his publishers to ask them
for a reduction. Sometimes, when the produc-
tion is strictly within the camp audience group,
no charges will be made. Sometimes a reduc—
tion is granted, and often
the fees for one-act plays
are quite small anyway,
usually about $5.00. In
other cases, there will be a
statement in the copyright
of the play that the royalty
applies only to perform-
ances where there is a
paying audience. If this is
true, the director won’t

need to worry, of course.
(Continued on page 48)

Our National Pastime

HATEVER its stimulat-
Wing effects generally

may be, there seems
no doubt America’s national
game inspires widespread in-
terest at this time of the year on
the Broadways and the Main
Streets alike.

This is baseball’s one hun-
dredth’s year of official existence.
Because an active boy decided to
improve on his favorite outdoor game by adding
the factor of running, modern baseball had its
beginning. Abner Doubleday could not have for-
seen that the result of his experiment would be a
highly specialized game played on a nation-wide
scale and thrilling millions of Americans from
March to October.

Every year about this time the American sports
fan is subject to an awakening of his baseball
consciousness. While he goes about the monotony
of his daily work, often in weather still bitterly
cold, a part of his mind is in sunny Florida, Louisi-
ana, Texas or California, while his favorite base-
ball team is preparing for the rigors of the com-
ing season. The newspapers keep him informed
as to the condition of his established stars, the
possibilities of newcomers for strengthening the
team, the squabbles between owners and players
over salaries, and give him a line on the relative
skills of his favorite club by reporting the results
of early practice games.

Always, with much fanfare, a civic dignitary
will toss out the first ball, ‘

This year all over the country

baseball will celebrate its cen-
tennial. What's back of it all?

By VINCENT FARRELL
Recreation Director

West Side High School
Newark. New Jersey

most every town and hamlet
in the country has some kind
of baseball team, amateur or
professional—~re1atively few
modern baseball fans know
much about the colorful history
of baseball.

Abner Doubleday is popularly
credited with the founding of the
game, and baseball’s “Hall of
Fame” is located in his home
town of Cooperstown, N. Y. Actually baseball is
a combination of the English games of cricket
and rounders. The influence of cricket is per-
haps the strongest, although because of the dif-
ficulty of gathering enough cricket players living
in one locality to make up a match, cricket never
attained a great popularity in this country.

Early baseball had no bases at all, as does
cricket, and the first bats were simply boards
whittled down to fit the hand with a flat hitting
surface in the general style of cricket bats. The
cricket term “hands,” for “innings,” was used in
early baseball, and the pitcher, Who was forced
to pitch underhand as in cricket, was allowed a
short run before releasing the ball. The player
or team hitting the ball most often in a set num-
ber of tries was the winner.

Doubleday added the base, calling it “One Old
Cat.” In the early game the batter was required
to run to the base and back after hitting the ball.
He was out when touched or hit with the ball

between home and the base. There were usually
only two boys on the team.

and a season of 154 games
per season will be on.
Months later the team Win-
ning the most games in
the American and Na-
tional League, respectively,
will meet in the World
Series. The first team to
take four out of seven
games wins the world’s
championship.

Baseball’s Interesting

History

Despite the tremendous

interest in baseball—a1-

It is always a matter of pride to a city when
boys who played their first games of baseball
on the community's playgrounds develop into
big league players. And many of the nation-
ally known players were playground boys. In
Sacramento. California. for example. the fol-
lowing World Series players were all former
participants in the Sacramento Winter League
program: "Stan" Hack. Chicago; Joe Marty.
Frank Demaree. Myril Hoag. Alexander Kam-
pouris. son of a Greek barber. was a player on
the high school team. Henry Steinbacker of
the Chicago Sox also played on the Sacra-
mento playgrounds. "The Great Mails" of
Cleveland was a Sacramento lad. Earl Mc-
Neeley of Washington. World Series hero.
was at one time a playground director.

Later, as more boys began
to play, two more bases
were added and the game
was given the name base-
ball.

Alexander  Cartwright,
one of Doubleday’s play-
mates, who was studying
draftsmanship, created the
diamond, setting the bases
ninety feet apart and the
pitcher’s box f orty-five
feet from home plate. The
distance between the bases
has remained the same but

25

26 OUR NATIONAL PASTIME

the pitcher’s box has been- moved back to sixty
and one half feet from home plate.

As the bases were added the number of players
grew. In addition to the pitcher and the catcher,
a player was added to each base and a roving
fielder installed. Then came the outfielders, and
the roving fielder found his place because most
players were right-handed and naturally hit more
balls in that direction than any other.

A feature of “Town Ball,” immediate prede-
cessor to baseball, was the pelting of the runner
with the ball. Instead of throwing to the bases or
tagging the runner, “Town Ball” called for the
fielders to hit him with the “pill.” Thus “Bean
Ball” is one of the oldest institutions in the
national pastime.

Doubleday invented bases, cut the sides down
to eleven, and had the fielders throw to the base
or tag the runner to make the put outs. From
1839 to 1845 batters used wagon—tongues, rake
and axe handles, and branches of trees for bats.
The first custom-made bat was ordered by Pete
Browning, a slugger with the Louisville Club, in
1884. It weighed forty-eight ounces and was
thirty-seven inches long.

Early Rules of the Game

Under early rules a team had to score twenty-
one runs to win the game, regardless of the num-
ber of innings, but each team had to play an equal
number of innings. From 1839 to 1900 the rules
were being changed constantly, but there has been
few important rule alterations since the turn of
the century. The Knickerbocker Club of New
York was the first organized baseball team and
played the first match game in 1846, winning ’23
to I in four innings.

The first intercollegiate game was played be-
tween Williams and Amherst in 1859, and in the
same year 1,500 persons paid the first admission
price (50 cents) to see a baseball game between
Brooklyn and New York at the Fashion Race
Course on Long. Island. Amherst won 66—32 in
twenty—six innings, after four solid hours of play.
Sixty-five runs were necessary to win the game.
Every player on each side had to be put out to
complete an inning in those old days.

Abraham Lincoln was the first president to be-
come an ardent fan. In 1860, when a committee
of the Chicago Convention called at his Spring-
Field home to notify him of his nomination, he

was out on the town commons playing ball. When
a messenger rushed out to him to inform him of
his visitors he turned and said, “Tell the gentle-
men that I am glad to know of their coming, but
they’ll have to wait until I make another base hit.”

Collegiate baseball contributed one of the game’s
most important inventions in 1877 when Fred
Thayer, captain of the Harvard team, devised the
catcher’s mask. Credit for the shin guard goes to
Roger Bresnahan who first wore them in a game
played in 1908. Two years before the invention
of the mask, Charlie Waite, Boston first baseman,
shocked his colleagues by appearing on the field
with a thin leather glove. He was ridiculed as
being a “sissy,” but he stuck to his glove and in
five years the idea had taken root among ball
players. In 1890 Buck Ewing, Giant catcher, pro—
duced the catcher’s mitt.

It Can Never Happen Again!

In professional baseball, at least, there will
probably never be a recurrence of a happening in
the game between Brooklyn and Philadelphia in
1886. The score was tied at the end of the eighth
inning when the umpire raised his hand and an-
nounced, “Game called.” Both fans and teams
gasped ,with astonishment until the umpire ex—
plained, “On account of the supply of balls being
exhausted.” Six balls had been knocked over the
fence and lost! '

And On They Go!

The National League was formed in 1876, and
the American Association was forerunner of the
American League in 1882. The American Asso-
ciation disbanded in 1891, and in 1900 the Ameri-
can League was formed with eight clubs. The
National League was reduced from twelve to
eight and three years later, in 1903, a national
agreement was signed banding the American
League with the National League and the Na-
tional Association of Minor Leagues, as “or-
ganized baseball.” '

From these beginnings began the parade of na-
tional heroes—— from Napoleon Lajoie, Honus
Wagner, Ty Cobb and Rogers Hornsby, to Babe
Ruth, Lou Gehrig and Joe DiMaggio at the bat;
and from Christy Mathewson, Rube Marquard
and Rube Waldell, Grover Cleveland Alexander
and Walter Johnson to Dizzy Dean, Carl Hubbell
and Vernon Gomez in the pitcher’s box.

Neighborhood

Makes lts OWn
Playground
B

y

LAWRENCE C. WOODBURY
Boys' Director
Central_Square Center
East Boston Social Centers Council

ITHIN A YEAR East Boston, Massachusetts,
w a neighborhood of 733 families with almost

1,500 children, has attained its objective of
obtaining land and constructing a playground for
its own use.

It started when a number of socially-minded

citizens, including an Italian nurse, a VVPA.

worker with several children, a mother of nine
children, five young men and several volunteer
leaders at Central Square Center, met to organize
a playground association. This group studied the
needs of the district, a natural neighborhood of
eighteen blocks bordered by the Boston harbor on
one side and electric car tracks on the other. Each
family was visited, and the names and ages of all
children were secured. The need for a safe play
area wasdiscussed with the families, who proved
willing and ready to cooperate in any proect which
would improve neighborhood play conditions.

It was found that with the nearest playground
one mile away most of the children were playing
on the streets, sidewalks, and on the deserted, un-
safe wharves near-by. The Police Department re-
ported a high percentage of accidents to small
boys and girls in the district. The children were
for the most part a destructive group owing to
their lack of satisfying, wholesome play Oppor-
tunities.

The playground association gradually enlarged
its membership to a total of twenty-three indi-
viduals, all interested in securing the playground
so badly needed by the neighborhood. Through
the cooperation of S. Max Nelson, general di—

 

A notable example of successful
accomplishment by community enter-
prise may be found in one of Bos-
ton's most depressed neighborhoods

rector of the East Boston Social Centers Council,
a conveniently located piece of land containing ap-
proximately I5,000 square feet was leased from a
savings bank. As the association had no money,
the Centers Council agreed to pay the yearly
rental fee.

The land secured was once the site of a large
factory of which nothing remained except parts
of chimneys, iron boilers, cement foundations, and
rubbish. In the clearing of this much labor was
involved. The boys and young men, realizing the
possibility of having their own playground, turned
out in large numbers to help clear away the de-
bris. Corner gangs, poolroom loafers, settlement
house boys’ clubs, and others labored for weeks
with borrowed picks and sledge hammers leveling,
off the land. Fathers came out at night, first to
give advice and then, catching the spirit, to con—
tribute their labor as well.

The city’s Public Works Department, delighted
at this attempt of the citizens to provide a play-
ground through their own efforts, donated hun-
dreds of truck loads of gravel and loaned a num-
ber of city welfare laborers to help with the proj-
ect. These men worked long after hours to com-
plete the grading of the land. A surveyor volun-

(Continued on page 50)
27

 

The Multiple Use

of

Recreation Facilities

HE MULTIPLE use of playground and park fa-
Tcilities is very important in communities where

land values are exceedingly high and there are
few neighborhood recreational facilities. A
superintendent-of recreation is always anxious
to obtain the widest possible use of all available
facilities because of the ultimate value to the
neighborhood. A proper layout and design
assists the superintendent and the playground
director in the organization of the playground
activities and aids in eliminating many play-
ground accidents. It is for these reasons that
' architects and playground executives should
confer on the layout and design of all recrea-
tional facilities for the widest possible use.
Taxpayers, and school authorities also have a
vital interest in this matter.

In New York City, careful consideration
has been given to this matter. The New York
City problem, perhaps, has been more difficult
due to the cost of land, density of population,
i and lack of facilities for all age groups. In a
few neighborhoods it was necessary to take care
of all age groups on an area 100' x 100'. The

28

By
JAMES V. MULHOLLAND

Director of Recreation

Department of Parks
New York City

question of apparatus, activities, age of par-
ticipants, neighborhood cooperation, all had to
be carefully considered before recommending
a particular layout and design.

Wading Pools

\Ve have found that by designing wading
pools for multiple use they can be used for
group games, basketball, and volley ball. The
wading pools in New York City are approxi-
mately 9” x 12” deep at the center. They are
practically level, with only sufficient grade to
carry off rain water. Nearly all of them are
drained towards the center. In one of our large
Wading pools, at the Roosevelt Playground
located at Chrystie and Forsythe Streets, Man-
hattan, we use the pool during the summer
months for wading from IO A. M. to 5 :30 P. M.
and then, at 8:30 P. M., after the pool has
drained and surface water evaporated, the
same area serves for dancing. During the fall
of the year the wading pool area is used for
basketball, group games, volley ball, paddle
tennis, roller skating, and similar activities.
In the spring, on this large wading pool, we
play softball with a I4” ball. The area is thus
used by children and adults at different times
according to schedule, and, being Hoodlighted,
it is open until IO P. M. Our smallest wading
pool, approximately 40’ x 75', is used during
the ,day by children, and at night by adults.
During the winter months the wading pools
are fioodlighted for ice skating and some are

used for snow sculpture and snow architecture.

\
THE MULTIPLE USE OF RECREATION FACILITIES 29

Wading pools, therefore,
form an important part of
the design of a playground.
Their successful use in New
York City warrants careful
consideration by authorities
of other cities.

Swimming Pools

The swimming pools of the Department of
Parks of New York City are constructed in a
similar manner for a multiple recreational use.
These have been used during the fall and spring
for basketball, handball, volley ball, paddle ten-
nis. The backboards and equipment placed in
these pools are portable and are removed dur—
ing the summer months so that the entire area
can be used for swimming purposes. Here,
again, the facilities have been planned in a
unique and novel manner and have proven ex-
tremely successful. The dressing rooms of
bath houses have been used as indoor game
rooms during the winter months, and many of
them are sufliciently large to accommodate 400
dancers. A weekly indoor dance during the
winter months is one of the activities taking
place in some of the buildings used during the
summer for dressing purposes in connection
with the outdoor swimming pools. The basket
system is used, thus providing a large area in
all buildings used for dressing and shower
purposes.

Other Facilities

The fixed equipment used for such games as
basketball, volley ball,
tennis, is so affixed to the
ground with a sleeve de-
vice that the piping can
be easily removed, mak-
ing available the entire
area for other games and
sports such as softball,
modihed games of soccer,
and roller ‘skating. Park-
ing fields near'the Ran-
dall’s Island Stadium are
also marked out so that
they can be used for soft-
ball when the parking
iields are not occupied by
cars. Some of the hand-
ball courts of the Depart-
ment of Parks are the
back walls of a held house.

Outdoor swimming pools become basketball courts,and

wading pools skating rinks and other sports areas in
New York City's plan for multiple use of facilities

Handball courts as far as possible are erected
in batteries of four to six, and the area in

front of the wall have been used for roller
hockey and social dancing.

Other facilities used for recreation have in-

.cluded areas under elevated structures such

as bridge approaches. In these areas have been
installed handball, tennis, and Bocci. It is in-
advisable to locate wading pools under elevated
structures as it is very desirable to have as
much sunlight as possible where wading pools
are located. A good example of recreational
facilities placed under elevated structures can
be found in New York City at the Bronx and
Queens approaches to the Tri-Borough Bridge.

We have found that a careful study made by
the playground supervisor and architect prior
to the development of the play area of neigh-
borhood conditions, ethnical and recreational
tastes and desires, the size of the area, the
recreational needs of the neighborhood, and the
popularity of activities, will bring about a wide
use by children and adults of the facilities
when they are completed.

(Continued on page 50)

 

The Green Revolution

By FREDERICK FRYE ROCKWELL

NHERALDED, unsung,
U and even unnoticed,

the green revolution
continues to spread; to gain
new converts by the thou-
sand each year. Slowly but
surely it has been creeping
into our educational insti-
tutions. It has gained so
firm a foothold in schools,
in colleges and even in the
primary grades that it ap-
pears extremely doubtful if it can ever be weeded
out.

Seventy-six million seed, bulb and nursery
catalogs were distributed in the United States last
year. A single seed house sends out more than
2,000,000 catalogs every year.

Last spring more than 175,000 persons each
paid $1.00 to visit a single exhibition of flowers,
the International Flower Show held in New York
City. A dozen similar big shows are held each
year the country over, not to mention local shows
by the tens of hundreds.

The coming of the age of specialization had
its decided influence on horticulture and ama-
teurs began to interest themselves in one
favorite plant or flower. These enthusiasts
presently banded together in national societies
for the study and improvement of their chosen
specialties. Today strong and influential na-
tional organizations exist for the promotion of
most of our important garden flowers: roses,
peonies, delphiniums, chrysanthemums, dahlias,
and many more. Even the lowly gourd has its
organized devotees.

A still later phase was the organization of small
local garden clubs, for the most part women’s
clubs. As these increased in number they united
into state and finally into national organizations.
For two or three decades they
have been, and promise long to
be, the most vital and effective
influence upon gardening in
America. The movement was
initiated by green-fingered
groups in many women’s cul-
tural clubs. As the movement

30

A door may open anywhere:

Upon a wood or path or lawn

Or crowded street or road. or there
Where none pass by from dawn to dawn:

But, if you'd have a mind at peace.

A heart that cannot harden,
Go find a door that opens wide

Upon a little garden.

These extracts have been taken
from an article by Mr. Rockwell
which appeared in the January.
I938, issue of the "Journal of Adult
Education." They are published by
permission of the American Asso-
ciation for Adult Education.

grew, however, every type
of woman gardener found
a niche in one of the many
organized clubs.

Now too the men have
organized. The national
organization, the slogan
of which is “More Pants
in the Garden,” is pub—
ljshing an amusing yet
thoroughly practical
monthly bulletin. Today
the American market offers almost too much in
the garden field—narrative garden books, per-
sonal experiences, encyclopedias, practical
handbooks, poetry, monographs, and sectional
books pour from the presses in an unending
stream.

E. M. Boult.

State colleges and other educational institu-
tions have begun to assume an important role
in the green revolution. Today a large num-
ber of state experiment stations devote much
of their energy to ornamental horticulture.
Some of the state colleges, such as those of
New York, New Jersey, Ohio and California,
have attained international reputations for re—
search and discovery, and also in the purely
aesthetic side of the garden movement. The
Agricultural College of New Jersey initiated
the first well organized and really successful
effort to utilize radio in the garden field. The
Radio Garden Club now conducts two pro-
grams each week over a coast-to-coast net-
work.

The green revolution spreads and educa-
tional forces of the country in an ever increas-
ing measure give it further impetus. It has its
own specific aim—the creation of an America

more beautiful. But it has a social significance
far beyond this. A country of
home gardens is a country of
good citizens, a country of
men and women who love
peace. It would be difficult
to overestimate the stabiliz-
ing and humanizing effects of
the green revolution.

 

A Lollipop Land Party

Suggestions for a Mother's Day party when
mothers are entertained by their daughters

ACK TO ROMPERS and bibs
B goes this attractive party

where the years drop away
and mothers laugh and play together in Lollipop
Land. Mothers come wearing sun-suits, rompers,
or short dresses and pig-tails, and bringing favor-
ite toys. Daughters appear as nursemaids—a pro-
tective role which they find delightful. Daughters
wear plain dresses, aprons and caps. (Cooking
school outfits do very well.)

Room Decorations

The color scheme of this party is pale green,
with bright-colored balloons and wall decorations
for accent. Cover the ceiling with pale green
paper streamers radiating from a central chande—
lier. Hang balloons among
the streamers. Giant pots
of lollipops standing here
and there in the room are
most effective. They are
made as follows: A num-
ber of long and round bal-
loons (not in fancy shapes
or painted) are blown up,
tied tightly and fastened
to the ends of sticks about
3% feet long. These sticks
may be cut from saplings;
or bamboo sticks may be
bought at the fiorist’s
(price about two for five cents). Tie
cellophane over the balloons and
fasten with Scotch tape. These are
the lollipops. For jars in which to
plant them, paint metal wastebaskets
or large tin cracker cans with silver
paint. Or cover the cans with dark

By JULIA ANNE ROGERS

   

green or black crépe paper. Fill
jars with sand. The giant lolli-
pops should be made the day of
the party, for balloons deflate if left too long.
The frieze for the walls shown at the top of the

page is made of wrapping paper on which are

pasted amusing paper figures representing lolli—
pops with arms, legs and faces, and gum drop
dolls and animals. To make the figures, cut out
circles, ovals and longer pieces of kindergarten
paper of various colors. These pieces represent
gum drops and lollipops of different shapes. Com-
bine to form dolls and animals. Paint in features,
and arms and legs for the lollipops. Another ef-
fective room decoration is made by covering
screens with light green paper on which have been
pasted some of these lolli-
p0p hgures. If you do not
have the giant lollipop
plants, have little ever-
green trees in jars, hung
with real lollipops. Fill in
corners of the room with
plants, flowers and foliage.

Invitation

Invitations to mothers
are written on pale green
paper with amusing
sketches of lollipops with
faces, arms and legs, simi-

lar to frieze.

Come to Lollipop Land
Lollipop Land where the babies all play
And walk with their nurses is not far away.
Please come and see it I And dress as 3 tot!

» Wear the most juvenile clothes that you’ve
got.

Playmates you’ll like are all coming too,

31

32

Just make a note that we’re looking for you!
Place : Hour: Date:

Please bring a baby picture Of yourself.

Activities
Upon arrival, children and nurses have their
names pinned on them: Baby Marjorie Randall;
Nurse, Joan Randall.

Baby Picture Contest. Lay all the baby pictures
on a table; put numbers on their backs. Give
guests pencils and paper and have them guess who
the babies are. Prizes: lollipop, skipping-rope or
ball to mothers with best two lists.

March. \Vhile a spirited march is played, babies
and nurses march in pairs. Bring the line around
to form a large circle. All hold hands, then drop
them, ready for circle games. If there are more
than thirty people at the party,
split the circle in the middle tO
form two smaller circles. Each 0
circle has a leader to direct the o X
games. Then the following jolly
games are played:

Find the Leader. Everybody
is standing for this game. The
player who is “it” is sent from
the room while another is se- y,
lected as leader. When “it” re- x
turns and stands in the center of
the ring, all the players are tap-
ping feet, nodding heads or do-
ing something else initiated by
the leader. The gesture is chang-
ed frequently by the leader,
while “it” tries to determine who the leader is.
\Nhen “it” guesses correctly the leader becomes
“it” and another leader is selected.

Baby Snooks. the Lone Ranger and the Wolf.
Everybody sits on the floor. Divide the circle into
three groups and assign tO teach group a part as
follows:

Baby Snooks—“Waaaaa - - - !”

Lone Ranger—“Hi — yo — Silver”

The Big Bad Wolf—“WOOOOOOO . . . . .l”

The leader tells the story of Little Red Riding
Hood, using these characters named. As each
character is mentioned the group waves arms and
shouts the proper response. The following story
may be elaborated as the storyteller wishes: “Once
upon a time there was a charming girl named
BABY SNOOKs who was loved by a cowboy, the
LONE RANGER. BABY SNOOKS lived near a great
forest and in this forest dwelt the big bad WOLF.

0x

fr: {0 (/00

0X é—Jom, Aana/S—rx 0

————_——_—_— ——————_

75 o’z'r/o’e large,
.SWIa// 0126.5

A LOLLIPOP LAND PARTY

One day BABY SNOOKS decided to visit her grand-
mother who lived deep in the heart of the forest.
THE LONE RANGER urged BABY SNOOKs not to
go into the forest where the WOLF lived but BABY
SNOOKS insisted upon going and would not let
THE LONE RANGER accompany her. “I’m not
afraid of the big bad WOLF,” said BABY SNOOKS
as she put on her red cloak and started out with

_her basket on her arm. But when she entered the

forest and saw the eyes of the WOLF gleaming at
her from behind a tree she was sorry THE LONE
RANGER was notwith her. The WOLF followed
BABY SNOOKS step by step getting closer and
closer, and behind him came THE LONE RANGER.
Just as the WOLF was about to spring on BABY
SNOOKS, THE LONE RANGER killed him with his
trusty rifle, and saved BABY SNOOKS” life. “LONE
RANGER, my hero, you’ve“ killed
the WOLF and saved my life,”
said BABY SNOOKS as she fell

0
x fainting in his arms.
0 . -
x Game ends w1th everyone
x 0 singing “VVho’s Afraid Of the

Big, Bad W 01f” from Walt Dis-
ney’s “Three Little Pigs” (See
end of article for publisher).

_ X 0 Little Tom Tinker. Players are

x X still sitting in a circle on the

O 0 floor. Divide circle into three
sections and sing as a round:

arc/6 Little Torn Tinker was burnt by a

clinker and he began to cry
Ma! Ma! Poor little innocent b’y.

Music for this song in “Twice
55 Games with Music,” Red Book. (For publish-
er’s address see end Of article.)

Here We Go Round the Mulberry Bush. Players

stand in a circle, join hands and move in a circle
singing fll‘St verse. The other verses are acted out
in pantomime. After each new verse the first
verse is repeated as a chorus.

Here we go round the mulberry bush
The mulberry bush, the mulberry bush
Here we go round the mulberry bush
SO early in the morning.

This is the way we wash our clothes, etc.
50 early on Monday morning.

This is the way we iron our clothes, etc.
(Tuesday)

This is the way we mend our clothes, etc. _
(Wednesday)

This is the way we sweep the floor, etc.
(Thursday)

A LOLLIPOP LAND PARTY 33

This is the way we bake the bread, etc.
(Friday)
This is the way we scrub the floor, etc.

(Saturday)
This is the way we go to church, etc.

(Sunday) .
Music for this song is in “Twice 55 Games w1th

Music,” Red Book.

Jump, Jim Crow. Still standing in circle, play-
ers are instructed by the group leader on the sim-

ple motions for this delightful singing game:
Jump, jump and jump, Jim Crow!

Take a little twirl and then away we go!

Slide, slide and stamp just so

Then you take another partner and you jump Jim Crow!

Music and actions for this song are in “Twice
55 Games with Music,” Red Book.

Hunt the Slipper. Players sit on the floor in a
circle. The slipper may be a ball, a beanbag, paper-
weight, or some other easily handled object. Play—
ers hold their hands behind their backs, going
through the motions of passing an article from
hand to hand. The person who is “it” sits in the
middle and guesses who has the slipper. Whom-
ever she catches becomes “it.” Do not let a game
of this type run on for any length of time with the
same person “it.” Ask for a volunteer and re-
lieve the unsuccessful player before she becomes

tired or embarrassed.

Flowers of Lollipop Land. This is a guessing
game played with pencil and paper while the play-
ers are still seated. '

An amiable man—Sweet William

The pulse of the business world—Stocks

A bird and a riding accessory—Larkspur

A pillar of a building, a syllable that rhymes

with dine—Columbine

A flower between mountains—Lily of the V alley

A dude and an animal—Dandelion

The place for a kiss—Tulips

A wild animal and a bit of outdoor wearing ap-

parel—-Fo.rglove

A lot of sheep—Phlox

What he did when he pro-

,_ posed to her—Aster

The person to whom she re-

ferred him—Poppy

A favorite object for win-

ter sports—Snowball

Prizes: Small bouquets of
lollipops in lace-paper frills.

Intermission. Players get up,
move around and talk.

This party, arranged for from sixteen
to sixty persons, is one of a number
of such events described in a book'on mberts
Parties and Programs for Parents'
Days by Miss Rogers to be published
at an early date by the National Rec-
reation Association. The LollipOp Land
PartyI as well as many other social
events described in the bookI may be
successfully used on other occasions.

Gum Drop Dolls. Everyone sits on the floor,
wherever she happens to be. A piece of newspa-

per or a paper towel or papernapkin is given each
person to work on. A tray containing gumdrops

of different sizes and shapes, pipe cleaners,
matches, toothpicks and cloves is passed around.
See who can make the best gumdrop doll.

Paper Dolls. Instead of the gumdrop dolls you

may prefer paper dolls. Pass around colored kin-
dergarten paper and ask each person to tear out
a paper doll.

Lollipop Lady. Soft music is heard. (Suggestion
for music is given at the end of article.) The over-
head lights are turned out, leaving only low lights
burning. The Lollipop Lady comes in. She wears
a billowy dress of light green tarlatan and a cap
of the same material which floats in a short veil.
Small gold bells are sewed at the bottom of her
dress and crescent moons of gold paper are pasted
here and there on the dress. Her belt is a gold
ribbon. Her perfume is that of a flower— some
fresh scent such as lily of the valley. She carries
a tray on a ribbon around her neck, or a basket on
her arm, full of lollipops. She smiles radiantly,
tossing lollipops to each child and to each nurse.

Refreshments. These are passed around on trays
by some of the nurses. They consist of sherbet
in cups, on plates, and cookies cut in the shape
of animals and dolls. On each plate have a lace-
paper (10in on which is pasted a picture of a
baby face cut from a magazine. Napkins should
have pale green as the principal color. Recipes
for sherbet and cookies are:

Lemon Sherbet

2 quarts boiling water

1 quart sugar

8 lemons (more if a really tart sherbet is desired)

White of one egg beaten stiff.

Boil sugar and water until clear. Add lemon juice to
syrup and strain. Pour syrup gradually into the beaten
egg white. Freeze an hour or more.

Doll and Animal Cookies

3 egg whites
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
1% teaspoon cinnamon

1-1/3 cup chapped almonds or

%, cup powdered sugar
%, cup all-purpose flour
Beat the egg whites until stiff,
add sugar gradually. Mix the lemon
rind, cinnamon and nutmeats to-
gether. Add to the egg whites.
(Continued on page 52)

Writing for Publication

IKE MANY a favored individual
foreordained to success, the
Mesa Writers’ Club was born

of humble parentage, and from its
infancy was marked for success. It Was sired by
an ambitious and energetic director of recreation
who, back in the early months of 1937, was look-
ing for new worlds to conquer.

Although he had already originated a large
number of widely varying activities in the field of
organized recreation, Joseph Smith Jarvis, Parks
and Playgrounds Director of the City of Mesa,
deep in Arizona’s famed Valley of the Sun, had
not yet found an outlet for his own secret and
suppressed longing to write something. It oc-
curred to him that others, too, might be afflicted
with that impelling urge to write which persists in
some of us like an exasperating plague. Then
why not add a Writers’ Club to the constantly
lengthening list of clubs and activities? Why not,
indeed!

The idea became an actuality on the night of
April 11th, 1937, when, at the invitation of Mr.
Jarvis, some eight or ten would-be authors met
for the purpose of forming a club and outlining a
program that would stimulate writing as a form
of recreation. Miss Ida G. Wilson, the City Li-
brarian, became the first President and Miss Mary
Alice Bell, a teacher in the grade schools, was ap-
pointed Secretary. A committee was appointed to
draw up a constitution and plans were laid for a
membership drive. Meetings were held twice a
month in the homes of the members. At each
gathering a program chairman was appointed for
the following meeting so that variety and quality
of entertainment would be maintained. Occa-
sionally guest speakers discussed various phases
of writing. Original articles and poems were read
by members and then filed in a club file at the
library.

Several members of the club succeeded in hav-
ing articles published, and
this gave steady impetus to
the desire to do more writ-
ing. One everiing the inevit-
able happened. Someone pro-
posed that the club publish a
magazine of its own 1 “Great !”
somebody else agreed—“Why

34

By GEORGE M. ROY
Editor. "Cactus Cuttings"
Mesa, Arizona

"Why are writers given so little atten-
tion in the recreation program?" queries
Mr. Roy in submitting his account of the
Mesa Writers' Club. We thoroughly be-
lieve that such groups as he describes
should be given every encouragement.
and we shall be glad to have informa-
tion to pass on about similar clubs.

not ?” The decision was unani-
mous. After several more meetings
in which the matter was discussed
at some length and tentative plans
were drawn up, the author of this article agreed
to act as the editor. The Parks and Playgrounds
Board consented to finance the project, and the
local high school superintendent generously
donated both his secretary and his mimeograph

'machine to take care of the press work.

A splendid dinner—our first annual banquet—
was arranged to herald the introduction of our
first volume, with the Parent-Teacher Associa-
tion acting as caterers. Guests included WPA of-
ficials from the state recreation office and friends
of club members. That first issue was enthusias-
tically received. Members mailed copies to all of
their friends and clamored for more. A few
copies, placed experimentally on the newsstands,
quickly disappeared. Soon the edition of 250
copies was exhausted.

The highlight of the venture was the success
encountered “back East,” last summer when Mr.
Jarvis, attending the National Recreation Con-
gress at Pittsburgh, distributed some thirty or
forty copies to government workers and recrea-
tion leaders from the Eastern centers. Perhaps it
was the attractive cover, depicting a typical desert
scene—cactus and all—which appealed to the in-
quisitive Easterners. At any rate, the available
copies were quickly taken up and Mr. Jarvis re-
turned from his trip with glowing accounts of the
enthusiasm which our little magazine had aroused.
He even reported that plans had been made to
publish similar magazines in the East as a direct
result of our humble contribution. We hope those
plans materialized and that magazines are even
now being published by writers’ clubs along the
Atlantic seaboard. We would be happy to ex-
change copies with any of them.

Early in 1938 the members of our little club
began clamoring once more
for a magazine and so plans
took shape for a second vol-
ume. This time, guided by
the experiences of our first
venture, the articles were
chosen with greater _care——

(Continued on page 52)

Play Space in New Neighborhoods

vania, two large public

IN PITTSBURGH, Pennsyl-
housing projects being

A committee report on stand-
ards ot outdoor recreation
areas in housing devel0pments

recreation use. Well kept lawns
and shrubbery have aesthetic
value but they are no substitute
for active play space. Unless

constructed in adjoining

neighborhoods have afforded

a basis for effective cooperation
in neighborhood re-planning.
Through an arrangement between
the city and housing authorities.
part of a municipal playground
of 5.8 acres on three levels lying
between the two sites will be used
for housing, and in return the
city will receive a new Iz-acre
area on one level. Among the

The committee responsible for
preparing this report consisted
of George D. Butler of the Na-
tional Recreation Association.
Chairman; C. E. Brewer. Recre-
ation Commissioner. Detroit.
and E. Dana Caulkins. Superin-
tendent of Recreation. West-
chester County. New Yorlt.
Copies are available from the
National Recreation Associa-
tion at twenty-five cents.

definite steps are taken to estab-

lish properly located recreation
areas of suitable size and development
in new neighborhoods cities will be
obliged to acquire such areas later at
much greater'cost.”

Holding that the responsibility
for seeing that recreation needs
are not overlooked in the plan-
ning of new housing develop-
ments, the committee states that
the responsibility for meeting the

recreation features to be provided
on this area, which will be oper-
ated by the city Bureau of Recreation, is an out-
door swimming pool. The city authorities have
acquired a site immediately adjoining the field on
which they are to erect an elementary school
which will Contain an indoor swimming pool.
Thus through cooperative planning the people
will have the benefit of a level recreation area
more than twice the size of the former play~
ground, and it will be available for both school
and community use. A junior playground of 1.3
acres is being built in one of the projects. Co-
operation in Pittsburgh is being facilitated by the
fact that the chairman of the housing authority is
the city councilman in charge of the park and
recreation bureaus and that officials and techni-
cians of the local city planning commission are
also serving the housing authority.

This example of cooperative planning for rec-
reation space is taken from the appendix to the
report “Play Space in New Neighborhoods” re-
cently brought out by a committee appointed by
the National Recreation Association at the request

of the Society of Recreation Workers of America. '

Unfortunately, this type of planning has not char-
acterized many public or private housing projects
in the past, according to the committee’s report.
In fact, in its statement of the play space problem

the committee says:

“Present building practice offers a hope that adequate
light, air and open lawn areas will be provided in new
housing projects. Yet there is little indication that the
new neighborhoods being created are to have adequate
Open space suitable for and permanently dedicated to

problem is a common one shared
by subdividers, public housing

. authorities, city planning commissions, recreation

departments, city councils, school authorities, and
the taxpayers.

The report presents a body of recommenda-
tions, outlines the principles which guide its sug-
gestions and then offers a detailed discussion of
the requirements and standards involved in rec-
reational planning for housing developments.

Recommendations

The committee presents the following recom-
mendations for the prevention of past mistakes
and the assurance of well balanced outdoor recre-
ation for people in new housing developments:

I. In the initial conception of any housing proj-
ect, due consideration for the recreational needs of
the people to be housed, in consultation with local
authorities responsible for city recreation service.

2. Play lots Within each block or for each group
of dwellings except in developments where back-
yards are provided for individual families.

3. Within each neighborhood whether com-
posed in part or entirely of the housing develop-
ment, a properly situated playground.

4. A playtield for young people and adults
within easy reach of every housing development.

5. Wherever practicable, utilization of space
not occupied by buildings for informal recreation.

6. Consideration of indoor recreation facilities.

7. Consideration of the problems of operation,
maintenance and leadership.

35

36 PLAY SPACE IN NEIV NEIGHBORHOODS

Fundamentally a Planning Problem

The three principles underlying the above rec-
ommendations are: first, that provision of recrea-
tion areas in housing projects is primarily a prob-
lem of city and neighborhood planning; second.
that intelligent provision of outdoor recreation
areas demands an understanding of their types,
essential functions and requirements as to size,
location, design and facilities; and third, that the
need for indoor recreation facilities must also be
considered and that they must be planned in rela-
tion to the outdoor features. Furthermore, it is
essential that methods of financing and adminis-
tering areas and facilities be considered.

The essential elements in the planning of a
neighborhood unit of a city are the playground,
school and indoor recreation center which serve
as a focus of the neighborhood and its common
life. The solution of the recreational needs of
persons to be cared for in new housing develop-
ments should be approached from the standpoint
of neighborhood play space requirements. This
principle has been recognized to some extent by
public housing authorities.

Many agencies share in the responsibility for
providing outdoor recreation spaces. It is not the
province of this report to suggest the division of
responsibility but it does hold that only as each
agency, public and private, understands, accepts
and meets its share of the responsibility can rec-
reational needs be met. Studies of local recrea-
tion needs must be the basis for sound, coopera-
tive planning. Some recreation areas in housing
projects have proved unsuccessful because de-
velopers did not understand the essential func-
tions of areas and their requirements.

Essential Types of Areas

Of the several types of municipal recreation
areas essential to a well balanced public system,
three have special applica—
tion to housing projects.

be provided for every thirty to sixty families. The
required space for the play lot is from 1500 to
2500 square feet. This presents no serious space
problem. If the play lot is not restricted to chil-
dren up to eight, some 2000 to 4000 square feet
may be required. In the play lots should be a few
pieces of simple, safe and attractive apparatus
such as chair swings, low regular swings, low
slides, a sand box and simple play materials.

For children from five to fifteen there should
be a children’s playground located at or near the
center of the neighborhood where it may be
reached easily and safely from all the homes. In
densely built up sections no child should be
obliged to go more than a quarter of a mile to
reach the playground. A desirable space standard
is that of one acre for each one thousand popula—
tion. In most neighborhoods an area between three
and five acres is needed. The playground must
have good design and effective development in-
cluding such features as an apparatus area, open
space for informal play, fields and courts for
games, an area for quiet games, crafts, etc., shel-
ter house, wading pool and possibly a play lot for

'the very young children. In the past a common

mistake has been to develop exceedingly small
playgrounds which create difficult problems of ad-
ministfation, discipline and maintenance. A sin-
gle large playground, designed on a functional
basis eliminates the shortcomings raised of small
play areas for older children. _
In order that young people and adults may have
an opportunity for recreational activities within
walking distance, there should be a playfield
within a half mile to a mile of every home, the
distance depending upon the density of the popu-
lation. Ten acres is a minimum size. A playheld
should be provided for at least each 20,000 of
population and there should be at least one acre
of playfield for every 800 people.
In addition to these fea-
tures every multiple family

They are play lots, play-
grounds and playfields.
The play lot is the sub-
stitute for the backyard.
In general, it should be
provided in the central
open area within each
block or adjoining each
group of dwellings. In
projects serving family
groups such a lot should

The Advisory Committee assisting in the prep-
aration _of the report were: Frederick J.Adams.
Professor of City Planning. Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology; F. Ellwood Allen. Spe-
cialist in Recreation Facilities. National Rec-
reation Association; Charles S. Ascher. Sec-
retary. Committee on Public Administration.
Social Service Research Council; Louise P.
Blackham. Recreation Consultant. Hillside
Homes. New York City; W. Burke Harmon.
Real Estate Operator; Seward H. Mott. Chief.
Land Planning Division. Federal Housing Ad-
ministration. and Clarence S. Stein. Architect.

development affords op-
portunity for introducing
on the building site a
number of recreation ac-
tivities which do not re-
quire the setting aside of
special spaces, which in-
volve very little if any
construction or mainte-
nance costs and which can

(Continued on page 53)

The National Recreation Association

N APRIL 12, 1938, the National Recreation
Association arrived at the ripe old age of
thirty-two. Today the Association is inter-

ested in the promotion of satisfying recreational
opportunities, not only for little children, but for
people of all ages, all races. all colors, wherever
they may be. It is interested not only in physical
activities, important as they are, but also in every
other form of wholesome, developmental, leisure-
time pursuit, calculated to give answer to the deep
hunger of human beings for expression, the
absence of which in their lives may mean a chok-
ing of the best that is in them—a form of spiritual
death.

Broadly speaking, the National Recreation As-
sociation is concerned with the leisure-time prob-
lem of America.

The National Recreation Association wants to
see many things happen, many advances made. It
wants to see the establishment of recreational fa-
cilities and services in all communities of the land
wherever they may now be non-existent.

It wants a keen appreciation by all school au-
thorities of the great significance of growing lei-
sure to human life and to the future of America.
together with the direct implications for educa-
tion inherent therein.

It wants to see communities ready to open to
young folks ample opportunity to continue with
their music, art, craft work, their nature, dra-
matic, reading, civic, social, and physical activity
interests during free time.

It wants to see civic organizations, dedicated by
their constitutions to civic service, become in-
creasingly active, cooperatively active in efforts to
persuade public officials to get the right concep-
tion of the recreational needs of the people, and
then to appropriate adequate funds therefor.

It wants to see a children’s playgrOUnd within
a quarter mile of every home in built up sections;
a neighborhood park and playfield for every
15,000 to 30,000 of the population in larger cities,
and at least one such in smaller places; a baseball
field for every 5,000 of the population; a tennis
court for every 2,000; a swimming pool 60 by I 50
feet for every 15,000 persons, but accommodating
more if the pool is larger, _with at least one pool
for every community; an indoor center in every
major section of a community. Also many other

Looks to the Future

By EUGENE T. LIES

This month the National Recreation Asso-
ciation will celebrate its thirty-third
birthday. It is. thereforeI an appropri-
ate time to publish these extracts from
an address made by Mr. Liesl a member
of the staff of the AssociationI at the
Regional Recreation Conference held at
Louisiana State University last spring.

fine things to meet the carefully ascertained needs
of the people. _

The National Recreation Association wants to
see well trained worker's everywhere, not merely
caretakers, not mere cheap political appointees,
but persons chosen on a merit examination basis
and continued in their jobs on a merit-checking

basis.
It wants to see great advances in cooperative

thinking, planning, and action in reference to the
leisure-time problem. This hope applies to the
getting together of public officials and boards,
also to the getting together of such public officials
and boards with private or semi—public agencies
plus schools and churches.

It wants to see, in every state of the union, a
home rule statute to permit municipalities to go as
far as the people want to go and are willing to
pay to go in providing for their recreational needs.

It wants municipalities to pass regulations re—
quiring a reasonable percentage of the area of
every new subdivision to be set aside for recrea-

tional use by the people.
It wants to see more volunteers of the right

type, especially hobbyists, enlisted in both public
and private leisure-time agencies.

It wants to see organized more and more citi-
zen groups who will relate themselves helpfully
to public recreation in their communities.

It wants to see more summer recreation sys-
tems expanded into year-round systems—since
people go right on living during the spring, fall,
and winter seasons.

(Continued on page 53)

37

You Asked for it!

Question: What has been the experience of
recreation workers in using amplifying systems in
their recreation prOgrams? For what types of
programs are they especially effective? Does the
expense make them prohibitive or do they pay for
themselves in the. added effectiveness of the pro-
grams? What about upkeep?

Answer: Over eighteen months ago the Recre-
ation Association of Boulder, Colorado, purchased
a portable sound system which we have found in-
dispensable for use at many of our events. We
have used it regularly for twenty-one different
types of social gatherings throughout the year as
follows:

The weekly free social dance held at Central
Center originated through a demand of twenty-
hve young people for cheap, wholesome dance
surroundings. As we were paying for the sound
system at that time, we made a charge of five
cents per person per evening. The dance has
grown to an average attendance of 220 people per
night, and it is now free. A collection is taken up
at each dance to purchase floor wax. Floor man-
agers, hall monitors, and parking custodians are
chosen by the group to assist the two recreation
leaders. The music selected is from the most fre-
quently requested popular tunes. Following the
termination of the dance season in the spring, the
dance committee gets together at an informal
banquet. \‘Vashington Recreation Center and Lin-
coln Recreation Center each have a dance night
during the week, and enjoy both folk and social
dancing. This is also free and the average attend-
ance is fifty-six. Two afternoons per week ele-
mentary grade children are enjoying folk dancing
through recordings at Central Center. The mari-
onette players, whether playing to a group of
fifteen or fifty, use the microphone because of
ability to maintain a natural voice with consistent
volume.

For P.T.A. meetings, clubs, church groups, and
other social gatherings, the system is invaluable
for dinner music', dance accompaniment, and voice.

A' discussion group of young people meets each
week to hear the Forum of the Air, have their
own discussion afterward, and dance to popular
tunes for a social period.

Santa Claus inaugurates the season on Decem-
her first, and the public address system is used for

38

greeting him on his arrival. We furnish appro-
priate music prior to the arrival of the band and
Santa Claus riding on the lire truck. The address
system is then used by Santa Claus in interview-
ing his little friends, and most of all in bringing
together children and. parents separated by the
crowd. During the week preceding Christmas the
system is placed in a car parked near a street
light in the business district, and carols are played
for an hour and a half. One church used the
Christmas records for their Christmas Eve

services.

At 'the close of the Yule season comes the
Twelfth Night ceremony when we use the micro-
phone for amplification of choral singing and
solos. It would have been very difficult to keep
people at a safe distance from the huge bonfire of
Christmas trees without the use of the system.

In directing activities at large picnics and club
outings, instrumental numbers and voice amplifi-
cation assist considerably in the program and the
direction of games. The Annual Easter Egg Hunt
is conducted with a minimum of disorder because

of the control of children made possible through
the use of the loudspeakers.

The annual Hallowe’en party for the school—
age children of Boulder is held in two sections at
the University of Colorado Field House. One
thousand six hundred children attended the party
in 1938. Public address systems are a necessity in
both the smaller group’s activities in the women’s
gymnasium and the larger children’s activities in
the field house.

The high school play day held in May is more
easily controlled from a central point of view with
the aid of the amplifying system to announce win-
ning groups, special attractions, and to maintain a
festive spirit.

The football games at the high school are an-
nounced throughout in the collegiate manner. The
softball leagues are conducted with the aid of the
public address system for the games as they pro-
gress, music between games, and special announce-
ments. This keeps the sound system busy from
four to six nights each week during the summer,
but only after the playgrounds have closed for the
(lay.

(Continued on page 53)

WORLD AT PLAY

 

HIGHLAND PARK,
Michigan, reports that
from the beginning of
November 1937, all of
the schools, including the high school and Hackett
Field House, were open for gymnasium, audi-
torium, and pool activities in the evening. Partici-
pating in the evening programs were over sixty
organizations including clubs, fraternal organiza-
tions, Camp Fire girls, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts,
church, and youth groups. The workshop in one
of the schools was open to the public for the third
successive year.

School Center
Activities

FROM time to time the
Association receives
information regarding
efforts which are be-
ing made to interest playground children in read-
ing. In Long Beach, California, for example, di-
rectors at various times have operated book clubs
with duly appointed officers. A recommended
book list from the public library a block away
from one playground was posted on the bulletin
board, and reports were given at the weekly meet-
ings by members who had read any of the books.
Points were given for the activity which counted
toward the playground certificate. Another di-
rector at Long Beach reports an effort to work
out a lending library, borrowing books from the
public library and loaning them to the children.
Still another director arranged to have a long ban-
quet table indoors with magazines and a few chil-
dren’s books on it. This table was particularly
popular in the heat of the day.

Playgrounds and
Reading

 

“THE health of the
child is the power of
the nation.” This will
be the slogan of May
Day—Child Health Day 1939, which as usual will
be sponsored by the Children’s Bureau, Washing-
ton, D. C. It is the hope of the Bureau that com-
munity groups will arrange for the presentation
to the public of child health needs in the com-
munity, for planning by interested groups of joint
efforts for advancing child health during the year,
and for launching new child health projects. It is
urged that school children as a climax to the year’s

May Day—Child
Health Day

 

health education program will show by exhibit,
demonstration, organization, and plays what they
have learned about safeguarding their own and
the community’s health, and will celebrate in fes-
tivals and games the progress made during the
year.

THE Union County,
New Jersey, Park Sys-
tem reports that on
Sunday, January I 5th,
21,000 skiers, coasters, and tobogganists swarmed
over the hills at Galloping Hill golf course. From
early morning until eleven o’clock at night these
winter sports enthusiasts were gliding down over
hill and incline. Few accidents were reported. In
most cases, states the report, either carelessness or
lack of courtesy were contributing factors in the
injuries which did occur.

Winter Sports
P0pular

A BIRD sanctuary of
16.8 acres, initiated in
Durham in 1938 and
nearing completion,
will be a unique addition to the city’s recreational
facilities. The park was built to attract wild birds
and wild life and will provide a splendid oppor-
tunity to study wild bird life which will be at-
tracted to the area by feeding stations, bird houses
and by trees and shrubs planted there.

A Bird Sanctuary
for Durham

THE Oakland, Cali-
fornia, Recreation De-
partment, reporting
achievements for 1938,
states that through WPA help the $1,400,000 mas-
ter project was drawn up and approved, giving
the city through the next few years an oppor-
tunity to build facilities in keeping with the
growing population.

More Facilities
for Oakland

AN attractive feature
of the annual Phila-
delphia Flower Show
is the Easter break-
fast table contest in which women’s clubs of the
city participate. Each club provides a table and
furnishes it completely with china, table linen and
centerpiece. The display, roped off, is easily visi-

39

An Easter Breakfast
Table Contest

40 WORLD AT PLA Y

    
 
  
  
 
 
    
 
   
  

  

EAGLE

RINCER
(Patented)

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 

   

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP—TO-DGTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND
line of horseshoes and accessories,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

0 Many Styles of Horseshoes

0 Official Courts 0 Stakes

0 Stake Holders 0 Carrying Cases
0 Rule Books 0 Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

“Forty Approaches to
Informal Singing"

 
        

Just off the press—a
pamphlet of suggestions
by Siebolt H. Frieswyk oi
the staff of the National

 
 
     
 

Recreation Association for

  
   

  

some interesting methods

of varying group singing .

 
 

and making it even more

 
   
 

. enjoyable than it would
otherwise be. Helpful dia-

 
 

| Price $.25

   

grams are included.

National l
Recreation Association ’

I 315 Fourth Avenue New York City ’

           
   

ble to visitors who enjoy expressing opinions on
the entries. Two of last year’s mostsuccessful
entries expressed, respectively, the religious and
the non—religious aspects of Easter. The first table
was set with heavy white damask and delicate
gold-banded white china. An exquisite small
modernistic statue of the Madonna in clear colors
surrounded by a low arrangement of narcissuses
formed the centerpiece. A prayer-book bound in
white and gold lay on the table. The other table
had plum color and gold as its theme. The center-
piece was purple anemones and yellow calendula
in a low bowl. The china, a charming rough pot-
tery in a lighter shade of plum, appeared to ad-
vantage on mats of wisteria colored linen. There
was an amusing pottery dish in the shape of a hen,
in which colored eggs were piled.

Activities for Girls—The Recreation Depart-
ment of Evanston, Illinois, is providing many ac-
tivities for girls. There are forty-five after-school
or early—evening clubs with varied programs, with
approximately sixteen girls in each class. Many
of the leaders are 'college girls employed part time.
About once a month the leader accompanies the
girls on an outing either at club time or on a Sat—
urday. At Christmas time each club made three
doll houses to be presented to welfare agencies
for distribution. Activities for women include
classes in gymnasium, volley ball, tap dancing,
swimming, bowling, badminton, handcraft, piano
instruction, softball, and hockey. Opportunities
are offered for mixed groups in badminton. A
shelter house was open for winter use with heat
provided and a WPA leader placed in charge.
Here roller skating, old-time dancing, social danc-
ing, ping-pong, and table games were conducted.

Rural Teachers’ Open House—As a gesture
of friendliness and appreciation of the coopera—
tion of community friends and parents of the
students in their classes, the teachers of rural St.
Louis County in Minnesota introduced, three
years ago, the Teachers’ Open House. To
this event adults of the community are invited to
enjoy the winter play areas and facilities at night
following which entertainment of one sort or an—
other and refreshments are provided by the local
school faculty. The Teachers’ Open House has
been most heartily enjoyed by the community and
faculty alike. In many communities it is fast be--
coming a tradition and a “looked for” event.
Twenty-three of these events were given by the
teachers last year.

H’ORLD AT PLAY 41

Music Week, May 7—13, 1939—Another Mu-
sic Week is approaching as the National Music
Week Committee again makes its appeal for a
widespread observance of the week through ac-
tive participation, concert attendance, and listen-
ing in the home to the better type of musical radio
program. As in previous years the National Com-
mittee recommends the featuring of American
music since the occasion offers an appropriate op-
portunity to give recognition to our American
composers and to acquaint the American public
with their work. The Committee further urges
American communities to encourage their local
music groups. Orchestras and bands, whether
professional or amateur, glee clubs, mixed
choruses and chamber music groups, school or
adult, are all an asset to any city or town, and are
not only a stimulus to the cultural development
of the individual member but also a means for
enriching the life of the community.

The National Music Week Committee, whose
headquarters are at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New
York City, has available a number of pamphlets
and other material which will be helpful to local
groups promoting Observances. Information re-
garding these publications may be secured from
Mr. C. M. Tremaine, secretary of the Committee.

Playgrounds First l—Edward J. McCormick,
M.D., Grand Exalted Ruler, Benevolent and Pro-
tective Order of Elks, places playgrounds first in
the list of services which local Elks carry on.——-
From Survey, February, 1939.

News from Los Angeles—Touch football is
proving a safe and satisfying substitution for the
regulation sport for an army of Los Angeles boys,
according to an announcement issued by the Play-
ground and Recreation Department. Thirty-five
playgrounds were reported in the touch football

tournament conducted in all sections of the city,’

With the grand play-off between the winners in
eight sections of Los Angeles scheduled for De-
cember 10th. The interplayground tournament
was held for 10th, 11th, and 12th grade boys in a
number of high school auditoriums. Other boys
from nine to fourteen years of age competed in
intramural touch football leagues organized with-
in each playground.

The Lamp Clubs, which offer every Los Angeles
girl between the ages of nine and sixteen years
not a member of a character-building club an op—
portunity to aHiliate with a municipal group, are

 

   [UNI-GOAL En PLAYGROUNDS

SOLVES YOUR OUTDOOR BAS-
KETBALL EQUIPMENT PROBLEM

One unit will provide needed

facilities for game.

Inexpensive—Requires little space
-—Will accommodate more players

For further particulars, write

SCHUTT MANUFACTURING CO.

LITCHFIELD ILLINOIS

Patented

EXCELLENCE

Used by leading universities and tournament
winners throughout America, Ben Pearson
Bows and Arrows are made by master crafts-
men, archers themselves, in America's largest
plant devoted exclusively to fine quality
archery equipment manufacture.

Get New Low Price Catalogue ‘

Send for complete free interesting catalogue
and Manual of Archery on care of equip—
ment, correct shooting form, building targets,

tournament rules, etc.

BEN psanson
 AND A“ n “"5

BEN PEARSON. INC. Dept. R9 Pine Bluif. Ark.

 

to be expanded. There are now thirty-four such
girl groups in the city. Membership entitles a girl
to go camping, to learn woodcraft and nature
lore, and to acquire skill in arts and crafts, home-

making, and citizenship.

Chicago Recreation Commission Receives
Budget Increase—The Finance Committee of
the City Council of Chicago, Illinois, with the ap-
proval of the Mayor has increased the appropria-
tion to the Recreation Commission from $20,000,
which was received by the Commission last year,
to $2 5,000 for the present calendar year.

Make your plans for the
RECREATION CONGRESS!

The Twenty-qurth National Recreation Congress
will be held in Boston, Massachusetts

OCTOBER 9 - l3. I939

Headquarters will be at the Hotel Statler

Additional information will be
issued at an early date

 

42 IVORLD AT PLAY

GROUP WORK INSTITUTE
May 29 -June 16, 1939

Western Reserve University

0 A three Weeks' institute for experienced group
workers including credit courses in Principles of
Group Work, Supervision in Group Work, Work with

Individuals in Groups. The Use of the Creative Arts
in Group Work. and Methods of Workers’ Education.

A bachelor’s degree from a college of approved
standing is required for admission.

For information address
SCHOOL OF APPLIED SOCIAL SCIENCES

Western Reserve University
Cleveland. Ohio

Camp Education— The December, 1938, is-
sue of the Phi Delta Kappan—a journal for the
promotion of research, service, and leadership. in
education -- is devoted to the subject of camp
education. It contains a number of articles on the
subject of camping by Elmer D. Mitchell, Bernard
S. Mason, Dr..Henry S. Curtis, Joseph E. Maddy,
L. H. Weir, and others. Copies of this issue may
be secured from the executive offices of Phi Delta
Kappan af 2034 Ridge Road, Homewood, Illinois,
at 35 cents each.

 

ADVENTUBING
inNATUBE

A venture in a comparatively new
field of activity for the recreation
movement, Adventuring in Nature,
by Betty Price has already received
favorable mention by nature
specialists.

With its suggestions for simple collec-
tions, playground museums, nature
trails, informal exploring trips, nature
clubs, games, handcraft, and other
activities, the book offers a wealth of
information to recreation workers,
club leaders, and camp, counselors.

. . . Price$.60

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue, New York

 

 

Unique Community Center Developments in
England—The magazine, Community, the Jour-
nal of Social Science in Birmingham, England,
tells of the organization of the unemployed into
community clubs. These were known as the
Feathers Clubs inasmuch as the insignia of each
club carried the “three feathers” of the Prince of
Wales crest. These clubs aimed to meet the oc-
cupational and recreational needs of the family as
a whole and, when there was a nursery school
available, the parents of the children automatically
became eligible to membership, subject to ap-
proval of the house committee.

In 1934 a Feathers Club Association was formed
to coordinate the activities of the present clubs
and plan for additional clubs in the future. Un-
employment was at first a requirement for mem-
bership but is no longer so. The majority of the
members have now regained employment. Each
club has its workshop and is equipped to meet the
occupational needs of its unemployed members.
The clubs are in a position to link themselves up
with other social organizations, joining in their
classes and interchanging activities. These clubs
are self—governing and almost entirely self-sup-
porting except for the salaries of leaders.

Midyear Park and Recreation Conference—
The annual Midyear Conference of Park and
Recreation Section of the League of Wisconsin
Municipalities was held in Madison on January
25th and 26th. Among the topics discussed were
the following: Does nature study provide recrea-
tion? Who is liable for accidents in your parks?
Where should you locate your parks and recrea-
tion facilities?

Boys and Girls Week—The 1939 observance
of Boys and Girls Week will begin on the morn-

'ing of April 29th and conclude on the evening of

May 6th. From the National Boys and Girls
Week Committee, Room 950, 35 East Wacker
Drive, Chicago, Illinois, may be secured an il-
lustrated folder known as the Advance Herald for
Boys and Girls Week which is designed to stimu-
late interest in the event. There is also available
a manual of suggestions giving detailed instruc-
tions for the carrying out of the program out-
lined in the Advance Herald. Copies of these two
publications may be secured free of charge from
the Committee of which 8. Kendrick Guernsey is
secretary.

WORLD AT PLAY 43

The Irene Kaufmann Settlement Celebrates
Its Forty-fourth Anniversary—The Irene Kauf-
mann Settlement of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, of
which Sidney A. Teller is director, received from
Henry Kaufmann an additional gift of $100,000
recently. Since 1908 Mr. Kaufmann has given
more than $2,000,000 to the Settlement which was
founded by Mr. and Mrs. Kaufmann as a me-
morial to their daughter, Irene. This year the
Settlement is celebrating its forty-fourth anni-
versary, and at its annual meeting it presented a
“living” annual report which consisted of demon-
strations of the work of the Settlement instead of
long reports, speeches, and statistics.

An Indian Village—A large and modern
trailer camp is being erected in connection with
the New York World’s Fair in which there will
be many recreational facilities. An Indian Village
is being planned where parents may leave their
children under the care of practical nurses and
recreation workers. For others there will be fa-
cilities for shuffleboard, horseshoe pitching, hand-
ball, and a large outdoor swimming pool. Other
recreational facilities will consist of a library with
a reading room, a game room, and an outdoor
movie.

Dancing in Richmond—The Bureau of Parks
and Recreation, Department of Public Works,
Richmond, Virginia, is stressing the organization
of dancing groups. Square dancing clubs are be-
ing successfully organized, and two are in opera-
tion with twenty to twenty-five couples in each.
There are two social dancing clubs with a mem-
bership of two hundred older boys and girls who
meet each week. The social dances are supervised
by leaders from the Bureau, and there are present
chaperons from the neighborhood.

An Annual Spring Festival—The thirteenth
Annual Spring Festival of the English Folk Dance
and Song Society of America will be held on the
afternoon of April 29th at the Seventh Regiment
Armory, Park Avenue, New York City. Of this
annual festival John Martin, dance critic of the
New York Times says, “It constituted one of the
major dance events in New York.”

Over 600 dancers from various Eastern cen-
ters will participate that afternoon. By far the
greatest number participating are adults, the ma—
jority of whom do the English dances as a hobby

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of

9...,  s. C

~')

av:

... AJ—

' THE ‘ I”. 'G‘d'ED'SMIin SONS, “.1...

JOHN AND FINDLAY SlS., CINCINNATI, OHIO

 

and find that they offer them exercises and a
highly enjoyable recreation of a social nature. The
festival climaxes the season’s dance activities and
offers a spectacle of great beauty. The program
will include Morris, Sword and Country Dances,
the latter both English and related American. A
large number of the country dances this year will
be danced by the entire body of participants at
one time. This massed dancing is considered one
of the highlights of the festival because of its
great beauty of color, movement and pattern.

Mrs. Arthur 0. Choate is chairman of the Fes-
tival; Miss May Gadd, Director of the Society,
will direct the program. Information may be se-
cured from the headquarters of the Society at 15
East 40th Street, New York City.

Sunbeams for Footlights

(Continued from page 4)

larger area for spectators, corresponding to the
auditorium under roof. There should be no pro-
vision made for permanent seats in a theater of
this type. The seating in the auditorium, which

44 I .S‘UNBEAMS FOR FOOTUGHTS

   

 

Ideas! At Cratt Service
practical craftsmen are
continually developing new
handicrafts. from a large
stock of standard and hard-
to-tind projects. supply kits.
other welcome ideas. Spe-

cial discounts to recreation
leaders. Free. Write today. send for
Please mention your or- 1939 C 0133)

qanization.

Write Dept. 92

CRAFT SERVICE

is usually a turf area, should be directly on the
lawn. or in portable seats. The element of bal-
ance is emphasized by symmetry in this type of
theater. Wings and background of plant materi-
als, well-screened backstage area, a definite stage
apron, and often a sloping amphitheater, are char-
acteristic elements of the design. In many ways
this type of theater corresponds to the “garden”
theaters associated with schools and college cam-
puses, and large private estates. Its size, shape
and general construction will again depend on
existing conditions and needs. .

The illustration of a proposed playiield-park
for Watertown, South Dakota, shows a theater of
the formal type. It is interesting to note here the
sloping auditorium, the dry wall forming the
apron of the elevated stage, the formal arrange—
ment of clipped plant material wings and back-
ground, and the well-screened ample backstage
area. There are various approaches both to the
auditorium and the stage. The introduction of
trees in connection with the screen planting of
shrubbery adds much to the sky line and mass
effect of the planting.

In the design of a playground theater the rela-
tion to other recreational facilities must be taken
into consideration. In a multiple use program its
function as a theater may be secondary. Every
playground should provide some area for quiet
games and outdoor handcraft. It is logical to con-
sider the theater either a part of or adjacent to
this area. The theater should be removed as far
as possible from the vicinity of noisy and active
games and should be within easy access to the
entrance of the playground. It should never be
necessary for children to cross active play areas
in order to reach it. If possible, it should be con-
venient to the shelter building or point of control.

360 University Ave
Rochester. N. Y.

 

  
  
    

Simplicity should be the keynote of the design,
regardless of the type of theater selected for the
playground. Care must be taken in the selection
of plant material from the standpoint of texture,
type of growth, and hardiness. The arrangement
of these plant materials should be functional as
well as attractive to the eye. When not in use the
playground theater is a definite landscape feature
of the area and is a means of introducing beauty
into an otherwise unsightly spot. There are many
playgrounds which are bare of trees and shrubs on
which it is difficult to visualize such a develop-
ment. This is especially true in playgrounds ex-

hibiting a pronounced evidence of overUse. Un—

fortunately all playgrounds are not beauty spots
and much can be done to give the necessary
aesthetic touch, through judicious and simple
planting.

If a playground is fortunate enough to possess
one or two trees, or possibly a group of trees in
some favorable spot, then these may form the

nucleus around which the theater may unfold.

NOTE: The construction of playground theaters will be
discussed in a future issue.

May Day Celebrations

(Continued from page 8)

Episode III—-Coronation of May Queen. The
Herald announces the coming of the May Queen
and her court. The procession is led by the shep-
herdesses, who form an arch through which pass
the Queen, her ladies-in—waiting, the Queen’s
court. jesters, pages, and flower girls, to the ac-
companiment of De Smetsky’s “Marche Royale.”
All sing “Happy Days” by De Koven, as the
Queen mounts her throne and is crowned with
due ceremony. The shepherdesses then entertain
the Queen with a minuet. As they finish their
dance, the villagers call to the jesters to entertain
the Queen, and they do’ so by characterizing
Hofer’s “Juggler Dance.”

Following this, the milkmaids dance “Gathering
Peascods.” At completion, a group of gypsies run
in and take places for their dance, for which the
music of the “Italian Peasant Dance” may be
used. At completion of dance, the Burgomaster

announces to the crowd: .
“Hear Ye! Hear Ye! The Archery Contest! The
Archery Contest!

All archers are invited to participate. The winner
will be given a place among the King’s Forest—
ers, and he who shoots straightest of all will be
given 'the prize of a golden arrow.

Archers, to your places I”

 

 

“5° @3333 §ANH°S©BE=SE°E

the modem dust allayer

GULF OIL CORPORATION
GULF REFINING COMPANY

GENERAL OFFICES: GULF BUILDING.
PITTSBURGH, PA.

 

 

HERE’S an ideal product for dust allaying pur-
poses on earth surfaces. Gulf Sani-Soil-Set—
another sensational development by Gulf’s re-
search technologists — offers a practical solu-
tion to the dust problem on playgrounds, ten-
nis courts, athletic fields, parking lots, etc.

One application of Gulf Sani-Soil-Set per
season will usually do the job. Properly applied,
it will not track or harm shoes or clothing.

Don’t let another season pass without getting
the benefit of this inexpensive dust allayer.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

‘ GULF OIL CORPORATION ' G_UI.F REFINING COMPANY. >
‘ General Offices: Gulf Building, Pittsburgh, Pa. R >
‘ Please send me without obligation a copy of the booklet "Gulf }
‘ Sanil‘Soil-Set for Treating Playgrounds.” ’
1 Name >

o e I o o u o o c o a n I o e o o o o o u o o o o c o o on.cocoon-eoeoouoouuooooooo )
‘  I O O I I I I O I I I O I O O I O I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I . . I . . . . . O . O I I . . . . I I I O ’
4 F

 . . . . . . . . I 00.... . . . . . . . I 0...... . . . . . . . . U . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

4 F

YVVVVVVVYVVVVVYVVVVVVVVVVV

46 PHILIP H. SLOCUM

Play L5. Safe with
MIT C H E L L SS‘EYLAEPSSJZ‘ZT-ai?
WRITE FOR INFORMATION:

MITCHELL MFG. CO.

DEPT.’ EMA MILWAUKEE. WIS.

During the archery contest, the first and second
movement from “Round of Country Dances” by
Dorothy Berliner may be played. Robin Hood
and his Merry Men take their turn in the archery
match. Robin, the winner, is awarded the golden
arrow, which he presents, ceremoniously, to the
Queen. The villagers then all join in the “Morris
Stick Dance” to the music of Grainger’s “Shep-
herd’s Hey.”

Following this, all sing the “Morris Dance

 

Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual
(I938 Edition. Vol. VI)

$3.00 Prepaid

O 220 pages filled with a vast
assortment of informative
material for those interested
in swimming pools in any way.

EARL K. COLLINS. Editor
425 Fourth Avenue New York. N. Y.

Make all checks. money orders. e’rc.I

payable to Earl K. Collins

 

 

Philip H. Slocum

N F EBRUARY 7th Philip H. Slocum, Director
0 of the Joliet, Illinois, Bureau of Recreation,
died after an attack of angina pectoris. For fifteen
years Mr. Slocum had been in charge of the recrea—
tion program in Joliet, and his passing came as a
shock to the entire community.

Philip Slocum’s first recreational experience
was gained before the World War in work with
the Y.M.C.A., in New Bedford, Massachusetts,
and Newport, Rhode Island. After service in the
war he returned to New Bedford where he opened
the first community center at Catherine Street
School and was active in organizing recreation
activities for boys. Two years later, in 1921, he
went to Richmond, Indiana, to take charge of the
recreation program. In 1923 he took up his work
in Joliet.

Speaking of the widespread influence Mr. Slo-
cum exerted, the Joliet Herald News said:

“Philip Slocum possessed a rare gift of organi—
zation, a surpassing ability to win the cooperation
of any individuals or groups with whom he
worked. Whether he was developing a single
child’s interest in a new game or directing a league
of four thousand players, he always successfully
attained his objective. The players inevitably
benefited from their association with the recrea-
tion director. Unconscioust he taught rules of
the game of life not found in books. By his own
perpetual practice he taught the finest sportsman—
ship, fair play, self—control. The death of Mr.
Slocum was mourned today by men high in city
affairs, and by men and women and boys and
girls who loved him as their playtime leader.”

Song” by German. As they finish singing, the
shepherdesses take their places and dance “Green
Sleeves.” Upon completion, the revellers take
center of stage and proclaim:

“Come all ye lads and lasses,

Join in the festive scene,

Come dance around the Maypoles
That will stand upon the green.”

As all groups run to the Maypole and remain in
place, the Queen’s attendants dance to Schubert’s
“Greeting.” When they finish, they give a signal
to the Maypole dancers to commence their dance.
At completion of the Maypole dance, all sing De

Koven’s “Farewell to Old Sherwood.”

The Herald then announces the end of the
revel, all groups triumphantly leave the stage

SCIENCE INDOORS AND OUT 47

. .
r 1
t‘ id":- 4- 7w..- . (.13 I: 9:: I; v. mlnwggwa
'r .;'.w ..IO‘-g all ‘-.l__
.'.'-- i" C I . it @325»
. ,. . e
"t '.
.

 

e
'e

         
   

 

Re-Equip Old Swing Outfits with

Ever Wear

Nothing is finer for a playground than swings. And good EverWear
Safety Swing Seats with rubber-cushioned ends. edges and corners are
one of the best investments you'll ever make . . . in fun . . . good
exercise . . . and playground SAFETY.

The rubber cushion-and-s’reel construction of these seats is a patented

All edges. ends and cor
ners are deeply eusb-
ioned with dexible tubu-
lar rubber to absorb
shocks and blows. Notice
how deeply tbe cush-
ioned rubber ends of the

 

seat can be bent to pre-
vent any dangerous ef-
fects of a blow to the
child’s head. All seat
surfaces are non-slip. Suspension clevises are re-
versible so that both sides of seat may be used.
Interior frame is strongly braced spring steel.

 

feature exclusive with EverWear. A spring steel core is surrounded by
tubular rubber resilient as balloons. All horizontal blows and shocks are
absorbed. disfiguring cuts prevented. It will pay you to insist on
EverWear Safety Swing Seats. They will make your playground SAFER.

Address Dept. R for complete details and Catalog No. 30 NOW

Send for Catalog No. 28W describing complete line of BEACH and POOL Equipment

THE EVERWEAR MANUFACTURING COMPANY -

- in the following way: Jesters, Queen, her attend—
ants, Burgomaster, Robin Hood and his Merry
Men, dancing groups, and villagers. The music
for the recession is “The Village” from “Scenes
Poetizue” by Gedard. This is played until grortps

are completely out of sight.

NOTE: The important thing to remember in this fes-
tival is the spirit injected into it by the May Day merry-
makers, all of whom remain on the scene after complet—
ing their dance. This spirit reaches a high climax of
expression when all cheer and applaud after each dance
or song. Quiet, eager interest is evinced by all during
each number, which should progress without any stops 0r
breaks.

Science Indoors and Out
(Continued from page 12) A

General Electric Company awarded the Science
Department of the Elizabeth Peabody House
its Thomas Edison Medal for outstanding work
in promoting science activities for children.

Now opportunities for enlarging our science
work open up almost every day. We are con-
vinced that science, indoors and out, offers

SPRINGFIELD, omo

one of the best possible opportunities for
children. It aids their general educational de—
velopment, helps them to a keener interest in
life, and points out that interest toward a
creative future, either as a vocation or avoca-
tion. Equally important is their fresh young
interest in present constructive activities, their
acquaintance with nature and its wonders, and
a resultant awareness of the possibilities of
creation and conservation which help to make
them responsible young citizens. Such training
cannot help but have an important eltect on
their characters and daily lives and make them
better able to plan for and direct their own

future.

Leadership, Organization and Program

Making in Boys' Club Groups

(Continued from page 19)

part of the club program. Just as the leader should
be alert to discover new and expanding interests,
so he should be alert to observe waning interests
and to foresee the death of an activity. When he

48 DRAMATICS FOR THE CAMP COMMUNITY

   
 

   

A
5 MONTHS
TRIAL
0FFEB

. . . your opportunity

  

to really become acquainted with one
of the most stimulating and helpful
school magazines. 5 months’ trial
offer of the

 
  

 

Junior Arts and Activities
magazine for only

$1.00

. . . our opportunity

to prove to you the reason teachers
are turning to this new type of crea-
tive schoolwork and methods. Un-
equalled in the amount of usable proj-
ect material in each issue. If not en-
tirely satisfied with first copy—your
money will be refunded. Mail today,
your name, address and a dollar bill,
and receive the next five issues of

  

   
 
 
  

 

Junior Arts & Activities

DEPT. R

740 Bush Street Chicago. Illinois

    
  
    

         

sees that the boys are losing interest in something
they have been doing, he should guide them in
making new program plans.

The leader- should freely use the abilities of
persons with special talents in guiding the develop-
ment of the program. It is not at all necessary for
a good leader to be a jack-of-all-trades in leisure
time activities. Obviously, the leader should seek to
develop his knowledge and abilities along all the
lines of endeavor which the boys may undertake,
but he should also not hesitate to use persons in
the community with specialized abilities when the
effective development of the program calls for
specialized knowledge and skill. Leaders should
not attempt to give boys the impression that they
know everything. Often the fullest growth pos-
sible comes when leader and boys set out to ac-
quire together certain informations and skills. All
club work should be a process of mutual sharing,
learning, and enjoying.

Dramatics For the Camp Community
(Continued from page 24)

However, there is a growing list of short and
entertaining plays for children which carry no
royalty. Such lists may be obtained from the
National Recreation Association or from the
National Service Bureau of the Federal

Theater Project, WPA, 1697 Broadway, New
York City.

Since many of these plays are scattered
through various more or less expensive an-
thologies of one—act plays, the best thing for
the young dramatics counsellor to do is to
type, during the previous winter, copies of all
the useful plays she can get hold of in the
public library or borrow from friends and ac-
quaintances. Several carbons should be made
of each play for the use of the leading actors
in the camp production. (Hand copying by the
children, after the play is cast, causes a dis-
tressing delay in beginning rehearsals, and also
reduces by just that much drudgery the fun
of the whole proceeding.) On each manuscript
there should be careful notes as to royalty
and publishers. In this way the director may
build up an excellent library of plays situable
to camps. Of course, when plays can be ob-
tained inexpensively printed, it is highly desirable
to have them in this form.

There are also a number of good books on
the various phases of directing, producing, and

RECREATION ACTIVITIES IN STATE PARKS 49

teaching dramatics that should be included in
the camp dramatics counsellor’s personal
library. If I were able to own only a few
books which would help me as a director of
camp dramatics, I believe I should choose the
following volumes first : Creative Dramatics, Wini-
fred Ward; The Process of Play Production,
Crafton and Royer, or Acting and Play Produc-
tion, Andrews and Weirick; Seven to Seventeen,
Alexander Dean (plays) ; Ritual and Dramatized
Folkteiays, Jasspon and Becker (plays), and Con-
stance D’arcy Mackay’s books of children’s
plays.‘ If in addition the dramatics counsellor
owns a good book or two of ballads and story
poems, and has stored in her head (or on
paper if necessary) a fund of appealing stories
full of action and dramatic possibilities, she
should have plenty of literary dramatic material
to last for quite some time. The rest of her
material is a thing of imagination, and if she
has that, she really will not have to worry
too much about the limited library she may
happen to have available.

Plays which are useful for camp should
usually be lively and full of action, the speeches
short, the parts fairly evenly divided among
the various actors, the costumes easy to im-
provise from the materials at hand, and the
setting simple and capable of quick change.
Also, when the camp is for only boys, or only
girls, it is necessary to find a play in which it
is not too hard for the children to play parts
that would normally be assigned to the op-
posite sex. This would mean cutting out the
all-too—common type of comedy in modern
dress.

In planning the whole program for the
summer, it is also best to provide for variety
in the kind of plays to be given, so that the
dramatic fare may be well balanced. The
plays need not be of uniformly high calibre,
but there are enough good plays for children
available to prevent the necessity of resorting
to trash. Even when entertainment is the chief
end in view, camp dramatics can be kept at a
fairly high intellectual, moral and artistic
level. It is the responsibility of the camp
dramatics counsellor to see that this level is
maintained, not only for the sake of the
audience, but more particularly that the camp-
ers participating may benefit to the full by

working in a worthwhile dramatic atmosphere.

NOTE: Miss Hall's article will be continued in the May
issue of RECREATION.

Recreation Activities in
State Parks

ECREATION PROGRAMS in state parks under the
leadership of Works Progress Administration
workers are proving very popular, according to a
résumé prepared by WPA at its Washington
headquarters. The experiences on which the re-
port is based cover at least six states and approxi-
mately twenty-five parks within these states.

In most instances the recreation program oper-
ated by WPA is sponsored by the state agency in
charge of state parks usually called the State De-
partment or Division of State Parks. From one
to seven leaders are being supplied to an indi-
vidual park according to its size, attendance, and
the type of program conducted. The leaders are
usually under the supervision of the WPA dis—
trict or county or area supervisor in whose terri—
tory the park is located.

There are no reliable statistics available on the
individuals coming to the parks and participating
in the programs. It is estimated, however, that
from 45 to 65 per cent of the participants are
adults. Park attendance varied from 10,000 for a
season in one park to 60,000 for one week end in
another. The individuals included campers who
stayed overnight or for a longer period, tourists
who were in the park for only a short time, and
people from near-by communities who came to the
park for only special occasions.

The recreation program is operated mainly in
the summer for periods of about seventy-five days.
Many of the state park officials, however, have
become so enthusiastic over the program that they
have asked to have it carried through the winter.

The duties of the recreation leaders in the parks
vary greatly, including the following: acting as
host or hostess; planning a recreation program
and directing people in activities’; keeping a bul—
letin board or some other means of informing the
public on the activities offered; organizing people
of neighboring communities to attend programs in
the park and to use the park facilities for their
special events, festivals and play-offs of league
games, and organizing leagues and groups among
the campers in the parks. I

The recreation program includes a wide range
of activities-—-nature study, arts and crafts, pup—
pets and marionettes, hiking, camp fire programs,
community singing, dramatics, festivals, games
and sports of all kinds, horseback riding, first aid
instruction, swimming and water sports, and win—

ter sports.

50

A NEIGHBORHOOD MAKES ITS OW'N PLAYGROUND

CHARACTER
AND CITIZENSHIP

brings each month to its readers a story
of what community organizations, insti—
tutions, and agencies are doing -——- or
not doing —

To lay the foundation for good citizenship
To build good character

To develop personality

To solve community problems

To safeguard democratic institutions

To improve family life

To promote recreation and good health

To encourage cooperative activities

The magazine is the medium of expres-
sion for the National Council on Educa-
tion for Character and Citizenship. It is
of particular value to:

Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. Secretaries and
Directors

Boy and Girl Scout Executives
Parent-Teacher Association Officers
Leaders of Youth Clubs and Activities
Directors of Recreation

Leaders of Other Character Building
Agencies

Miss Maria Leonard, Dean of Women, Uni-
versity of Illinois, says: "I wish to tell you how
much help I feel CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP
is to us who are trying to build youth. The name
of the magazine itself emphasizes the two great-
est goals in building youth. The sooner that
character and citizenship can be made the basis
not only of all human relations but of education

itself, the sooner a new era will be ushered into
America.”

Send your order to

National Council on Education
for Character and Citizenship

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

"l.............

O
0 Please record my name as a sub-

scriber to CHARACTER AND CITIZEN-
SHIP as checked below.

I] One year subscription at $2.00

I

N AME ............................................................................ ..
ADDRESS ........................................................................ ..

Cmr .......................................... .. STATE .................... ..
Nat. Rec.

 

A Neighborhood Makes Its Own

Playground
(Continued from page 27)
teered to make the proper grades, and near-by
factories loaned drills to break up the cement and
iron pipes.

When all the preliminary work was completed
last fall, the playground association sponsored an
opening ceremony. This included a monster pa-
rade in which 700 children marched, some of them
carrying placards which read: “1,455 children and
no playground, so we made one.” The other pla-
cards read: “Play is life for the child.” Field day
contests at which public oflicials officiated were
also a part of the program.

The playground association, in a series of meet-
ings, has planned for future developments. Start—
ing this spring there will be handball, volleyball,
tether ball, baseball practice, horseshoe courts, and
paddle tennis for the older boys and girls. There
will also be several bocci alleys for the Italian
fathers and a small children’s area with sand
boxes, swings, and slides. Activities will be su-
pervised by members of the association with the
help of several Central Square Center volunteer
leaders who live in the neighborhood. During the
winter“ the association sponsored two dances at
which a considerable sum of money was raised for
playground equipment.

The entire project aside from reaching its main
objective, that of giving the many children in the
neighborhood a safe place to play, has accom-
plished much in addition. It has to its credit the
splendid achievement of having changed the atti-
tude of many individuals. Boys who formerly
had a reputation for destructiveness are now work-
ing to improve the playground. Parents, now edu—
cated to the value of wholesome play and recrea-
tion, are taking full advantage of the many
opportunities at the settlements and recreation
centers.

The Multiple Use of Recreation
Facilities
(Continued from page 29)

We have found it advisable to hard surface
all of the play areas of limited size in con—
gested areas as such a type of development will
serve a great many more people than it will
if the earth surface is retained. An asphalt
surface of a play area of sufficient size in a

(Continued on page 52)

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 51

Twenty-five Years Old

FAMILY SUPPER and neighborhood program
featuring activities of the rural countryside
was a fitting opening ceremony on February 5,
1939, to the twenty-fifth anniversary and found-
ing of the Little Country Theater, at the North
Dakota Agricultural College, Fargo. The famous
little theater, founded by Alfred G. Arvold, was
once a dingy, dull chapel. It is today a country
life laboratory typifying the average neighbor-
hood community center in a small town or the
open country.

During the four days which followed oppor-
tunities were given for the public to inspect the
theater and study its operation; plays were pre-
sented; demonstrations in make-up, costuming,
sound and lighting were given; and a speech
clinic held. Addresses and symposiums on vari—
ous phases of drama and rural social life were
other features of the program. From throughout
the state came 4-H Club puppeteers, talented in-
dividuals representing rural community and
homemaker clubs, bands, choruses, and other mu—
sical groups—all examples of home talent that
had been developed in rural communities.

Membership of a male chorus which performed
consisted of eight farmers, three farm laborers,
two painters, two teachers, two students, a clerk,
mail carrier, minister, carpenter and blacksmith.
The representative of one community not only
told how he had made a violin from a cedar
fence—post, but also played it. On display were
hobbies of rural folk including a mounted butter-
fly collection, miniature stage settings, marion-
ettes, character dolls, lighting effects, and rare
books on the theater and country life.

The climax to the silver jubilee celebration was
an evening devoted to “Plays of the Yesteryears,”
highlighted by a series of tableaux and short ex-
cerpts from many of the dramas that had been
presented in the Little Country Theater in years
past, including such well known productions as
“Little Women,” “Peter Pan,” “Peer Gynt,”
“Elizabeth, the Queen,” “The Good Earth,” “Dr.
Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” “Cappy Ricks,” “David
Harum,” and others. Taking part in the program
were college students and graduates who came
from many communities, representing many
vocations.

It was a gala event and a great tribute to the
Little Country Theater and the influence it has
had on the lives of individuals and communities.

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles I
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

        

MAGAZIN ES °

Minn‘esotu Municipalities, February 1939
‘Crookston’s New Winter Sports Arena”

Camping World, February 1939

“Summer Camp Insurance, Fire Insurance—Part I”
by Norman M. Godnick. This is the first of a

series_of articles on camp insurance appearing in
Camping World.

School and Society, February 11, 1939

The Association of American Colleges and the Social
Security Act

School and Society, February 18, 1939

“The ‘Love of Strenuous Activity Among College
Women’ Myth” 'by Mary C. Baker

Progressive Education, December 1938

“Some General Characteristics of Adolescence” by
Caroline B. Zachry

Character and Citizenship, March 1939
“Beyond School Walls” by Paul J. Misner
“Conservation and Citizenship” by W. P. Beard
“Guidance——-A Community Approach”
by Agnes Samuelson

The Journal of Health and Physical Education
March 1939

“I Have to Teach Recreation” by Mabel Madden

National Parent-Teacher, March 1939
“Rating with the Group” by Gertrude Chittenden

The Regional Review, February 1939

“The Human Factor in Recreation Planning”
by R. C. Robinson

Junior League, March 1939
“Why Be a Volunteer?” Mary Cooper Robb

PAMPHLETS

First Annual Report of the Superintendent of Public
Recreation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, 1938.

Thirty-Second Annual Report, Board of Recreation Com-
missioners, East Orange, New Jersey, 1938.

Twenty-Fourth Annual Report, Department of Recrea-
tion, Detroit, Michigan, 1938

Annual Recreation Report of the Department of Recre-
ation, Provo City, Utah
January lst to December 3lst, 1938

Annual Report, Playground and Recreation Association
of Wyoming Valley, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, 1938

Annual Report, Mount Vernon Recreation Commission,

Mount Vernon, New York 1938

1938 Winter Bulletin, Department of Recreation, Detroit,
[Michigan

Annual Report, Recreation Department, Austin, Texas,
1938

- Annual Report 1938, Department of Recreation, Kala-

mazoo, Michigan

Annual Report 1938, Recreation Commission,

Plainfield, N. I.

Facts About Recreation in Davenport 1938
Department of Recreation, Davenport, Iowa

52 WRITING FOR PUBLICATION

First Annual Report 1938, Kane Playground
Kane, Pennsylvania

Annual Report 1938 Park Department, Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma

Annual Report 1938, Recreation Department,
Salt Lake City, Utah

Annual Report 1938, "Department of Recreation,
Two Rivers, Wisconsin

Seasonal Report of City Playgrounds 1938,
Salem, Oregon .

Annual Report 1938, Miles City W.P.A. Recreation,
Illiles City, Montana

Annual Report 1938, Houston Recreation Department,
Houston, Texas

Annual Report of the Delaware County Park and Recre-
ation Board 1938, Media, Pa.

Annual Report Board of Park Commissioners for Year
Ending March 31, 1938, Winnetka, Illinois

Annual Report Community Service 1938,
Memorial Community House, Whiting, Indiana

Annual Report 1938, Recreation Department,
Portland, Maine

Homestead District Playgrounds, Supervisor’s Report
1938, Pennsylvania

Annual Report 1938, Bureau of Recreation, Department
of Public Works, Pittsburgh, Pa.

What’s Ahead for Rural America?

Youth Section, American Country Life Association,
March 1939, 744 Jackson Place, Washington, D. C.,
price $.15

Social Relationships and Institutions in an Established
Rurban Community, South Holland, Illinois
by L. S. Dodson, Resettlement Administration,
Washington, D. C.

The Bulletin of The Association of College Unions,

—. The Report of Proceedings of the Nineteenth An-
nual Convention held at the Minnesota Union, Uni—
versity of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, De-

cember 1-3, 1938.

 

 

The Multiple Use of Recreation Facilities
(Continued from page 50)

congested area also makes available an area
which can be used by both children and adults
for many activities, including roller skating,
softball, basketball, and volley ball.

The multiple use of community recreational
facilities is extremely important in providing
the widest possible use of facilities and in help-
ing to solve problems of children’s play and
of the leisure of adults.

A Lollipop Lanqd Party

(Continued from page 33)
Chill. Mix the powdered sugar and flour together and
spread on a board. Drop nut mixture onto this, knead
lightly, and roll out to % inch in thickness. Cut out with
doll and animal cookie cutters and place on a buttered
cookie sheet. Bake in a preheated oven: temperature, 325

degrees F; time, 25 minutes. Ice when cold with confec-
tioner‘s sugar frosting if desired.

Music for Lollipop Lady: Victor Record No. 11832,
dream pantomime from “Hansel and Gretel.” $1.50 plus
postage from G. Schirmer Inc., 3 East 43rd Street, New

York City. Or secure from your local music dealer.

“Twice 55 Games with Music”—The Red Book. C. C.
Birchard and C0,, 221 Columbus Avenue, Boston, Massa- "
chusetts. Edition containing words and melodies, 25¢;
complete edition with musical accompaniment, 75¢.

“Who’s Afraid of the Big, Bad Wolf.” Irving Berlin
Inc., 799 Seventh Avenue, New York City. Or secure
from your local music dealer.

Writing For Publication
(Continued from page 34)

and there were more to pick from. The result was
a somewhat larger and much more attractive num—
ber, although this time we unfortunately used a
faulty machine for cutting some of the stencils
and so the press work was somewhat less appeal—
ing. But we ran more cuts this time and they
greatly enhanced the finished work. Our second
annual banquet was the occasion of the introduc—
tion of our second publication to our public.

One incident serves to illustrate the possibilities
of such a project. One of our members wrote a
short play called “Meet the Professor” which we
published in our second volume. This play so ap—
pealed to the boy who assisted with the mimeo-
graphing that he asked for permission to use the
play in the grade school he attends. One can
imagine the thrill that afforded the girl who wrote
the play!

The recreational value of our Writers’ Club and
the stimulating results achieved by our publica—
tion have gone far toward p0pularizing recrea—
tional writing in our community. The project has
caught the public fancy and each meeting of the
club brings added applications for membership.
We are doing things, and we are growing. A few
months ago we were privileged to broadcast a
program over a radio hook-up. That provided a
great deal of fun.

Already, with our latest isSUe barely off the
press, plans are being formulated for publishing
a bigger and better issue for the current year,
with more and‘better articles and more cuts. The
annual banquet and with it the appearance of the
current issue of the club magazine has already be-
come a fixed tradition!

We cannot help but wonder why so little atten-
tion is accorded writers in our recreation pro-
grams. Surely no form of recreation is more

PLAY SPACE IN NEW NEIGHBORHOODS 53

wholesome, more stimulating, and more produc-
tive of constructive results, than that of writing.
Most people would like to write. Many of them
have tried it at one time or another, and would
again, if they could receive the stimulus afforded
by an organized group such as our Mesa Writers’

Club enjoys.

Play Space in New Neighborhoods

(Continued from page 36)
be carried on without leadership. Thus lawns may
be used for croquet, badminton, paddle tennis,
group games and paved courts and other areas for
showers, shuffleboard, hopscotch and other court
games. The outdoor areas should be supplemented
by such indoor facilities as game rooms, work
shops and rooms suitable for parties and a variety
of group activities. Both indoor and outdoor fa-
cilities and areas should be-included in the recrea-
tion plan.

Finance and Administration

Some of the most troublesome problems in con-
nection with recreation areas in housing projects
relate to hnance and administration. Satisfactory
solutions for them are likely to be found only as
realtors and public authorities sit down and work
them out together. It is pertinent at the outset to
work out a definite plan for assuring proper oper-
ation and maintenance. The problem of leader-
ship should also be faced in considering planning
and design. Certain types of play space may bet—
ter be omitted than provided withOut adequate
supervision. In a number of cities leadership at
recreation areas in housing projects is now fur—
nished by the local recreation department.

The National Recreation Association
(Continued from page 37)

It wants to see schools and colleges everywhere
cut loose from the rank tradition that star teams
must be developed—at all costs—regardless of the
rest of the student body, who can merely buy
tickets to see the few play and who get exercise
only for their vocal cords.

In other words, it wants to see general partici-
pation as against meager participation.

It wants to see such agencies as the Y.M.C.A.
and the Y.W.C.A., the Boy and Girl Scouts, the
Camp Fire Girls, the Hebrew and Catholic cen-
ters, and the seeial settlements flourish.

Finally, the National Recreation Association
trusts that in the interests of a still better and

“Roads to Music Appreciation ”

By A. D. ZANZIG

A brief statement of the essentials of musical
growth for listeners and some descriptions of
fundamental ways of proceeding in these
essentials will be found in this pamphlet.

Designed to provide a short cut for the leader
or teacher to basic insights into the purposes,
the choices of music, and the procedures
through which he himself can work in this
field, it will also serve as an introductory
guide for the mere listener and for the
recreation or educational director who wishes
to gain in a short time a better understanding
of what his music teacher or leader is striving

to do. A helpful bibliography is given.
Price $ .25

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue New York City

 

more glorious America there will come about
general and genuine conviction in high and low
places that “Man does not live by bread alone,”
and further that “Depending upon the use made
of it, leisure can degrade or elevate people. . . . It
can bring everlasting grief or minister to con-
tinuing happiness. The use of this gift of mar-
ginal time, by individual and nation, veritably
involves human destiny.”

You Asked for It!

(Continued from page 38)

The regular Sunday night combined church
services in the bandshell are carried through the
loudspeakers so that people may sit any place in
the park and hear plainly.

At the bandshell the public all-playground
demonstrations and exhibits are augmented by
sound for musical accompaniment announcements.
Talent shows are produced with the playground
master of ceremonies in charge. The regular city
band concerts held in the bandshell during the
tourist season are amplified for solos and an-
nouncements by the public address system.

The annual Fourth-of—July “Pow Wow” cele-
bration uses three public address systems for

54 YOU ASKED FOR IT!

various group control uses. Ours was used for
“barking” in front of the marionette concession.

The public address system is rented to organi-
zations for private dances and allowed to use rec-
ords free; this pays for the recordings for the
whole department. '

We hope to arrange time for use of the system
and the bandshell for quartette and other im-
promptu singing, and for the development of
music appreciation. The police department is con-
sidering the use of the system for traffic warnings
at downtown intersections. Microphone tests
for good speaking and singing voices may be
attempted. '

Our experiences have shown that best results
were obtained through the use of better grade ac-
cessories. The sound equipment should reproduce
both the high and the low tones equally well. The
maximum volume for voice with our unit is
twenty-five watts, and for music, eighteen watts.
This is sufficient volume to enable people stand-
ing a block away to hear clearly. There should
be very little record scratch. Feed-back (humming
oscillating noise) should not be audible when us-
ing the microphone, and when using maximum
volume the quality of musical tones should not be
distorted. We have found one hundred feet of
microphone cable a necessity, as well as two hun-
dred feet of lead-in cable from the speakers with
about a hundred feet separating the two. A light
pick-up arm on the turntable saves records, as
does constant changing of needles.

The wisdom of our investment in this equip-
ment has been proved not only through the cheap
maintenance hgures but through Splendid per-
formance. The original cost was $148.00 which
included an eighteen watt amplifying unit, one
turntable, two speaker units, a microphone, a
small radio, two hundred feet of wire, and twenty
recordings. The turntable, amplifying unit, and
recordings were used equipment. We built the
turntable box, the loudspeaker horns, and the rec-
ord containers. Upkeep amounts to about $14.00
per year. Recordings include folk dances, square
dance, popular, novelty, classical, and Christmas
music, of which 78 per cent are 22¢ and 35¢
records, and 22 per cent are 75¢ records. From
the standpoint of future service it is wise to pur-
chase through a local merchant, or have him build
the system. Since most of our microphone uses
are for voice amplification we use a directional

dynamic type—D. W. Pinneo, Director of Recre-
ation, Boulder, Colorado.

Wh y They subscribe!

What School Activities brought to its
readers the past year for only $2.00!

        

   
 

“ii 47 articles on Ad-
' ministration and

Supervision of Ex-
tra-Curricular Ac-
tivities
2| articles on School
x Assemblies
 iE’riceEEiizmiwmmfmi‘. .i ’ i  I4 articles on
 ' " '_ Athletics
Maxtnanim.‘ 76am- ,f t ‘ o
 : ~. 56 articles on Clubs
WWMQ‘A m .
‘ II articles on
Commencement

,, . _ 7 articles on Debate
sumw’wu: * ‘i .~ I _ .
» xLWM-o‘bimuwm . i x '2’   arilCIeS on
«- .W’”°W' , ,  ~ .5 ' .
~  gringwewmw» ‘ Dramatics
7 articles on Fi-
nancing Activities

6 articles on Home
Rooms

SChOOl Activities 7 articles on Music
in their school 20 articles on
means . . . Pam“

23 ' I r -
For the PRINCIPAL ' °”'° °‘ °" P °

gram Material
3611001 and 601111111111“? in- 8 articles on School
terest—attention that is

I . Publications
GIWGYS 917911 to things 3 articles on School
going on.

Spirit
School interpretation—dem- o
’onstration of what the '2 szgleesovztnmsx;
school is doing. exhibi- . .
tion and explanation of '0 “hcl” °" M's'
the work that justifies the c.°l.liin°°us Ac'
modern school. “V'i'e‘

School spirit. harmony with- N5? “'9'” °f PM”
in and among school Ed'im'als' News
group” school loyalty Items. Book Revuews.
and goodwill. eic‘

For the  This is more usable

material than sev-

Material for assembly and oral boolts at many
community programs. times the cost would
Practical ideas and sugges- have brought to

tions for clubs and home theml
rooms.

Plans for parties. banquets.
and socials.

For the STUDENT

Always an educative some-
thing-to-do.

 
     
   
   
        
         
      

Ia; keystones: it Wee am -
- J were by: r , ‘.,
a wins-c as: . a); ‘
was.» W . ’ ‘
, Annexe-wt»; rm:- ‘ r"
" _3‘ «we. «mm x -
"i A Ricki-24$.“ ‘wmge
' \. -' Perm " \ ’ I v \

     
      
      
      
 

‘ « mammaaém‘m ~ '
+x~a'°vo) ' 5-
-"-. a

  
   
    
   
   
      
     
      
        
      
    
     
       
       
 
    
       
       
      
   
        
       
 

(Completely indexed ‘
in Education Index)

With a nationally
prominent editorial
and advisory board—

— SCHOOL AC-
A wholOSOme good time—  speaks 

a happy eventful school authority on matters
life. of great importance
5. o

A rich experience in genu- *0 6" Scl'IOO
ine democratic living. Only $2.00 per year

 
   
      
       
     
     
      
       
   

   

Subscribe NOW to

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES MAGAZINE

College Hill
Topeka Kansas

"The Magazine with a Big Place in Every School"

 
       
 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

The Costume Book For Parties
and Plays.

By Joseph Leeming. Frederick A. Stokes Company, New
York. $2.50.

H ERE IS A comprehensive and elementary book on cos-
tuming in which the descriptions of all sorts of €05—
tumes are so clear and nicely illustrated that the amateur
costume-maker would have little difficulty in following

them. There are descriptions of twenty-seven national.

folk costumes, the costumes of nine historical periods.
and the oft-sought directions for the making of many
of our most fanciful costumes—from Peter Pan to the
Witch who reigns supreme at almost every Hallowe’en
festivity. The book will be of special service not only to
those concerned with the making of costumes from inex-
pensive materials but to those who find it necessary to
adapt available garments to meet special needs. Simple
pattern guides are given for tunics, caps, and other c0m~
monly used garments. The' 138 illustrations by Hilda
Richman are not in color, but the accompanying text
describes the color schemes.

How to Win at Checkers

By Millard Hopper. Published. by the author at 422
First Street, Brooklyn, New York. $.15.

HERE IS A simple guide to skill at checkers for the new—
comer in the field who wants to know the purpose of
each move he makes. Seven lessons are given in the book-
let which is profusely illustrated by diagrams showing the
various moves.

The Barnes Dollar Sports Library

A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.
H ERE IS A NEW SERIES of books on sports covering the
techniques, rules, and plays of our most popular
sports, all published at the uniform price of $1.00 each.
and designed for coaches, players, and enthusiasts. Each
volume is illustrated. The following books are now avail-
able: Baseball, by Daniel E. Jessee; Modern Methods
in Archery, by Natalie Reichart and Gilman Keasey:
Track and Field, by Ray M. Conger; Better Badminton,
by Carl H. Jackson and Lester A. Swan; Basket Ball, by
Charles “Stretch” Murphy; Fundamental Handball, by
Bernath E. Phillips; and Football, by W. Glen Killinger.
Further volumes to be included will cover golf, swim-
ming, tennis, skiing, skating, winter games, fencing, box-
ing, wrestling, etc.

Shellcraft

By Ruth Lippincott \Valworth. Bruce Humphries, Inc.,
Boston. $1.00.

HE RESPONSE to an earlier edition of this book has led
to the publication of this profusely illustrated book
which contains an added section on jewelry as well as
much of the material which appeared in the first edition.

Folk Songs of America

By Robert W. Gordon. Issued by Folk-Song and Folk-
lore Department, National Service Bureau, Federal
Theater PrOJect, 1697 Broadway, New York. $.25.

THIS BOOK, reprinted by special permission of the New
Y or]: Titties, includes interesting information concern-
ing the basic origin and development of the American
folk song. It is also a comprehensive collection of folk
songs themselves—some mountain songs from North
Carolina; Negro work songs, spirituals, and “shouts”
from Georgia; Negro chants; outlaw songs; jailhouse
songs; lumber-jack songs; the old ballads; nursery
songs; and songs of the pioneers.

Mr. Gordon not only presents the songs but also ex-
plains the mode of their presentation. We are given sum-
maries both of the background of the songs and of their
actual use. We learn how Negro spirituals are actually
used and developed, and why the songs of cowboys and
lum‘bermen are usually sung after work instead of on the
job, as is the case with sailor chanteys and Negro work—
songs. Music has not been included.

Encyclopedia of Sports

By Frank G. Menke. Published by Frank G. Menke,
Inc., 235 East 45th Street, New York. $2.00.

MR. MENKE has given us a wealth of information in
this encyclopedia representing “filtered facts from
2,000 books and the independent findings of twenty
years.” Starting with the amazing fact that Americans
spend about four billion dollars annually in pursuit of
their favorite Sports, Mr. Menke gives us information re-
garding the history and development of games and sports
of all types. As a result of his research, the author has
come to the conclusion that a combination of running and
hurdling was mankind’s first competitive sport; that
throwing was second, and wrestling combined with
punching—the old rough—and-tumble manner of fighting—-
was the third sport. Field hockey, requiring nothing but
a branch from a tree and a pebble, is probably the oldest
of games and lawn bowling, its youngest brother.

A Practical Bibliography of Recrea-

tional Activities

Compiled by 'C. 0. Jackson. Curriculum Library of the
University High School. University of Illinois,
Urbana, Illinois.

|N THIS FIFTEEN PAGE mimeographed bulletin a carefully

selected and classified list of books, pamphlets, and
magazines is given. Mr. Jackson states in his preface that
in many cases the bibliographical references have been
read and evaluated personally. Where this was not pos-
sible, reliable book reviews and recommendations of com—
petent individuals have been accepted. Anyone interested
in securing a "copy may do so by sending a letter or postal
card to the Curriculum Library, 203 University High
School, Urbana, Illinois.

55

56 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Successful Stu nts.

Kit 46. Edited by Katherine and Lynn Rohrbough.
Cooperative Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

Here is a collection of stunts—there are sixteen of them
with twenty-five stunt hints—which are both social and
dramatic: “social because they enlist a large part or all
of the group as participants and their fun depends upon
cooperative action: dramatic to the extent that they have
plots and are highly imaginative.” The recreation leader
will find them a helpful addition to his “just-for-fun”
library.

Stories for Parents.

By Jean Schick Grossman. Child Study Association
of America, New York. $.05 each.

The Child Study Association has issued the first four
of its proposed series Of leaflets, “Stories for Parents,”
designed to present in simple and attractive form material
which will help parents of limited educational background
in meeting some of the problems which arise in the home.
The leaflets are (1) “A Game of Jacks” (a discipline
situation) ; (2) “A Promise” (on keeping one’s word to
children); (3) “A Happy Day for the Whole Family”
(on encouraging children’s success); (4) “Dad Comes
Home” (a typical “hard times” situation in the home).

Personal Experiences—A Two-Act Play.

By Ada Louise Barrett. Womans Press, New York.
$.35. Royalty $1.00.

This play, particularly designed .for the use of Y.W.C.A.
groups, relates the experiences of five girls who are out
of jobs looking for employment. There is opportunity
for good acting in the play, and there are some amusing
situations.

Teachable Moments—A New Approach to Health.

By Jay B. Nash, Ph.D. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $1.50.

A radical departure from the usual book on health,
this little volume lays down some simple, understand-
a‘ble rules which may be followed at no expense. Through-
out Dr. Nash stresses the importance of play and the
provision of adequate facilities, and leaves with his
reader the thought that the will to live is the driving
force of life in general and of health in particular. “What
man needs," he says, “in fact, wants, is scintillating
worth-while activities which are balanced by challenging
workshop patterns in his leisure.”

“The Call to Youth."

National Council of Catholic Women, 1312 Massa-
chusetts Avenue, N.W., Washington, D. C. $.35.

This booklet contains the seventeen talks of the 1938
“Call to Youth” series conducted by the National Council
of Catholic Women in cooperation with the National
Broadcasting Company. Of special interest to recreation
workers are the discussions of “Youth Creates Beauty,”
“Leadership of Volunteers,” “Youth in Action,” and
“What Youth Demands.”

Social Agency Boards and
How to Make Them Effective.

By Clarence King, Professor of Public Welfare Ad—
ministration and Community Organization, The New
York School of Social Work. Harper & Brothers,
New York. $1.25.

This book traces the origin of Boards of Directors,
defines their functions as they have been developed, cites
some of the disadvantages of such boards, and indicates
how they should be organized. The subject of officers,
board meetings, relations between executives and the
board, and other helpful topics are treated in simple and

very readable fashion. A very good bibliography of eight
pages is found at the close of the book.

This is a helpful guide for executives who are dealing
with Boards of Directors.

Manual of Knitting and Crocheting.

Compiled by Sarah Barnes. William H. Horstmann
Company, Philadelphia. $2.50.

Is knitting your hobby? If so, here is a book you will
want! Its publishers have endeavored through it to as-
sist the reader to solve the various problems of knitting ‘
and crocheting and “to induce the worker to think for
herself.” The volume is arranged in five sections with
actual photographic illustrations, full working instruc-
tions, and detailed charts.

Programs with a Purpose.

Mignon Quaw Lott. Pentagon Court, Baton Rouge
Louisiana.

Under this title Mrs. Lott has issued a series of bul-
letins containing five safety programs which approach the
problem from the constructive side and attempt to popu—
larize the information which everyone should have
through the medium of entertainment. It is suggested
that anyone interested in learning how to secure the ma-
terial and the expense involved communicate with Mrs

Lott.

Ofiicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. FINLEY, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice—President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan Cty, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS, JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

T. SUFFERN TAILER, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

