Co - Recreation

ID you ever hear people ask questions like these: What kind of activities can a public
D recreation center or a community organization conduct for young men and young women

together (or boys and girls, or adult men and women)? Are there any kinds of activities
that ought to be conducted with mixed groups if it is possible to do so? How does mixing the
sexes affect the leadership problem? The problem of equipment? What limitations need to be
:observed? What happens to the membership and control policies of one-sex organizations?
.What differences are there in the educative, recreative, and broadly social effects of activities
"carried on for members of one sex and those arranged for both sexes together?

. Questions like these in the minds of local workers led to the publication of the admir-
itble handbook, Partners in Play by Mary J. Breen, issued by the National Recreation Asso-
::iation. They led to an exploratory session last Spring in the National Education-Recreation
Council, a consultative body representative of national organizations, public and private, in-
I:erested in various forms of education, guidanCe, and recreation. They are partly responsible

 

1180 for this issue of Recreation, devoted as it is to reports of recent experiences in co-recrea-
'tional activities.

A great many pe0ple have contributed these reports. They have been frank in referring
to successes and failures and in suggesting values as they see them. There is need for more and
foetter reporting of practice and reflection upon it. It is hOped that the statements here assem-
I)led will help many by showing what can be done, how it can be done and what is worth work-
ng for, but that in addition they will stimulate some to further reflection upon the basic
1uestions involved.

I should like to see young people today living far richer and more satisfying lives ten or
twenty years from now than do many people now in middle life—and that, whether they are
licher or poorer in goods and money than the generation they succeed. I should like men and
:vomen to have more interests.which they enjoy and have learned to pursue together—-some of
’hese interests accompanied by well deveIOped skills. I should like them to have had such an
vxperience in playing and working together as younger pe0ple that some of them at least will
{lave learned how, by the overtones of their daily relationships with each other, to make play
:ut of work. I don’t see any reason for having Republican Clubs and then Women’s Republi-
ian Clubs, Missionary Societies and then Women’sMissionary Societies, except for the fact
ihat up to now men and women have not learned to be equally responsible partners in enter-

rise that concerns all of us.

The first thing I should want mixed activities to do for younger boys and girls and for
{oung adults is to add the zest and the variety of approaches which the presence of the other
13x ought to supply. Of course, the range of interest should go considerably beyond dancing

ind sports, for example. Is it possible that this good, self-forgetful play might also provide a

ground of experience in c00peration, in mutual adjustment to. differences, and in respect for

Each other’s contributions that will be significant for the future in these other and perhaps larger
Jays? These h0pes furnish part of the reason for seeing what can be done and how to do it.

J. EDWARD SPROUL

Program Executive, National Board,
Young Men’s Christian Associations
of the United States

 

p

.5 E P T E M B E R, I 9 3 9    1.,  g 
L—— ‘
i 313

September

- . S

t: a da- 5 " "1 , c. w- a" a  1.4-9.2; 3:39'gria-rxe-sx—J
,4

v—o'. I .° 

Photo from Laurence I". Loy, Amherst, Mass.

"Wifhou’r any se’r formulaI we may apply lo acfivi’ry ifself. sa’risfac’rion in sharing fhe in-
ourselves ’rhe facf fhal a disfinc’r confri- feresf wifh ano’rher. safisfacfion in fhe in-

puiion. can lae made +0 marriage by sa’risfy- creased undersfanding of ’rha’r o’rher glimpsed
mg lersure-hme ac’rivi’ry; sa’risfac’rion in +he in leisure +ime spen’r foge’rher."

Janet Fowler Nelson
Nafional Board. Y.W.C.A.

 

 

Every community center
should have. if possiblel a
"drop-in" room for young
people. with attractive
furnishings and bright
curtains, inferesfing pic-
’rures. books and maga-
zines. a radio' piano. and
growing planis. And,
above all, a fireplace!

 

Photo from Laurence L‘ong, Amherst, Mass.

 

et’s Serve Youth!

By ETHEL BOWERS
National Recreation Association

ODAY too many agencies are driving young peo—
ple away from their doors instead of attract-
ing them in increasing numbers. Too many of
ur youth leaders are failing to recognize certain
Jital forces that work in our young people be-
:zween the ages of fifteen and twenty-live years.
.We can shut our eyes to these forces; we can say
1ey are not‘there; we can ignore them in our
)rogram planning, but we can do nothing to stop
hem. We can, however, help young people to
.mderstand these forces, to control them and t0
lirect them into wholesome, useful channels.

   
 
  
  

Needs of Youth

We need to understand human nature. we
:annot change it. Young people are in the mating
,ge. -They are growing and developing, and we
must recognize the fact that they are growing
rery rapidly; that they have very little reserve
thergy, and that most of this is used up in the
.‘ aily routine of personal care, home duties, school

 

and extracurricular activities, church and club
affiliations. Many of them have joined every or-_
ganization they possibly can; many of them are
greatly overworked. These are the “joiners.” In
addition to these, we have the great army of
“drifters”--those whose background is not ade-
quate, who are self-consciOus regarding their
clothes, who lack the restless energy and ambition
of some of our youth, who are undernourished,
handicapped, sometimes from birth, mentally or
physically. Members of this group are the ones
who need our co-recreational activities most and
who, lacking the proper outlets, will be most at-
tracted to the cheaper forms ‘of commercial rec-
reation and the most undesirable forms of loaiing.
Both groups have long hours when they want
sociability andcompanionship oftheir own age,
usually outside the home. '

We must not make romance unpopular. It has
been driven out of many of our churches, our
neighborhood houses and community centers, and
even from many of our homes, yet it thrives.
Romance should be brought back to these desir-
able places, and a normal, happy way to do this
is by providing co-recreation.

Today we stress programs for girls, but too
often the girls who should be there are not pres-
ent but are hanging around nearby soda counters

315

316 LET’S SERVE YOUTH!

or taverns. We provide baseball for the boys, but
not every boy wants to play baseball, and the most
ardent players do not want to play all the time.
We need to provide activities which will meet the
needs of the boys and girls of this age for meet-
ing, for dropping in at odd times for quiet or less
strenuous activities, as well as for the organized
co-recreational programs of music, dramatics,
dancing, crafts, which we usually find in our cen—
ters. We must give romance a chancewnot drive
it out.

Youth Demands Progress

We must also recognize youth’s demand for
progress. Youth is often critical of its environ-
ment. Boys and girls want to rise above the con-
ditions into which they have been born, to make
more of a success of life than their elders have.
They demand outside con-
tacts at this mating age, and
scarcely any home can meet
all of their! leisure-time
needs because of their de-
sire to “go places and do
things.”

At this age young people
have ideals, but if they are
continually thwarted by
home and environmental
conditions these ideals may
be lowered with resulting
hasty marriages or moral
lapses. It is our responsi-
bility to assist them in their struggle to improve
themselves. We can, through co-recreation, help
them to know the young people of their neighbor-
hoods better, to meet new companions, to work
and play together under wholesome circumstances.

Some of our leaders have done excellent work
in this field by organizing junior councils conduct—
ing weekly open house parties for informal social—
ized sports such as badminton, and even by co-
recreation camping and outings. How much bet-
ter for young people really to get to know each
other on a rainy day at camp or under the strain
of a hard winter sports outing trip than in our
much frequented commercial recreation places!

The Right to Choose

Another factor to be considered is youth’s right
to choose. Young people today are independent.
They will not stand dictation. They demand the
right to go their own way. Too often, however,

:1

direction is given this path by opportunities which
are only those of commercial recreation. One of
our recreation leaders has said, “Seven o’clock in
the evening is the dangerous hour,” for it is the
first time in the entire day when a young man or
woman is really free to choose how he or she will,
spend the evening. The burden of the choice as
to whether or not the path will lead upward;
toward the wise use of leisure time rests squarely
on the shoulders of the adults of the community.
We must help these young people gain skills in?
those activities which are best suited for co-rece-
reation and establish good taste in cultural
activities.

We must learn from commercial recreation
ways of attracting youth to our activities in giving
them what they want. Use color, movement, such
as shifting lights ; furnish as much luxury as pos-
sible and all other elements
which contribute to a ro-
mantic atmosphere. The
awkward, gawky boy or
girl does not want to dance
on the floor of a brilliantly
lighted gymnasium where
the spectators, composed of
not too sympathetic class-
mates, may laugh at the
novice’s attempts.

Finally,_youth leaders
must recognize the impor-4
tance of having young peo-r
ple grow up in normal home-
relationships. They do not grow up in a vacuum.
From earliest years they will be in constant asso-
ciation with other people in family groups and'
with the, opposite sex. We must teach our boys;
and girls to work and play together from early
childhood. We cannot wait until they are in col;-
lege for many will not go to college. We must
not segregate boys and girls during early adoles-t
cence and then subject them to the emotional:

strain which comes with their first co-recreationall
activity. - l
.9.

f3

In this article Miss Bowers has mentioned
a number of activities which are described
in various articles following this introduc-
tion to the subiect of co-recreation. More
information about Evansville's roller skat-
ing program. for example. will be found in
Mr. Newcom's account of "Co-Recreation
in Indiana's Largest Play Plant." "Recrea-
tion at the University of Iofva" tells of a
dry club night as it is being conducted at
the University of Iowa. Similarly. other in-
teresting activities recommended as enioy-
able and desirable in a co-recreational pro-
gram are described in many of the articles.

Some Successful Methods

Some of the most successful methods used 
attracting youth to recreational activities include
the following: d

Roller Skating. There is nothing finer than out-I
door roller skating on a smooth street, preferablyl
not bounded by residences, or, better still, or
lighted cement tennis courts. Some cities condUC‘

LET'S 513R! '15 YO UTH !

,‘Skating nights twice a week for eight weeks in
{the fall and spring, with music supplied by a pub-
;lic address system, by a radio or phonograph
{plugged into some street light or cooperative
lneighbor’s front porch light, by a WPA orchestra;
ior, as one ingenious leader did, by the radio music
lfrom his own car picked up by a public address
system placed on the seat of the car. In mild or
uncertain climates these roller skating nights could
be conducted throughout the winter. The young
people provide their own skates and the park de-
,.partment should provide an abundance of benches.
Many agencies are having regular roller skating
ights in basement game rooms or in a gym-
hasium. Skates with fiber wheels are bought on
Icredit and paid for from a rental of 5¢ an hour.
iln Evansville, Indiana, the Recreation Department
lmd the WPA have cooperated in opening a.whole
door of an old factory building for co-recreation
vith roller skating to music delivered by a public
ddress system four nights a week in one-hour
periods from six until ten o’clock.
The Lounge Library. Every community center
_should have a room, preferably just inside the
"ntrance, as a lounge library or a glorified “hang-
out” room. This room should be completely en-
-‘losed, with just one entrance, not a passageway
_)r open lobby. It should have comfortable, sturdy
furniture, slightly better than that found in the
homes of the neighborhood, bright curtains, wall

‘

i

 

  
  
 

Jangings, interesting pictures,
)Ooks, magazines, radio, a phono-
graph, an old piano, and, if pos-
isible, growing plants or artificial
i lowers. Ideally this room should
iave a fireplace, and in one
f‘ gency this fireplace has been
g‘endowed” by an interested pa-
ron so that there may be a fire
)urning every evening. Most imv-
‘ )ortant of all, this room should
lave, not overhead lights, but the
iloor and table lamps. to be found

    
  
 
  
 
 
   

Music was the prevailing in-
terest at the institute held
in Onachita National Forest,
LouisianaI but social recre-
ation had an important
place. And doesn't it always?

in any living room. A mature woman who is a
hostess-leader should serve this room in that
capacity. Young people should be encouraged to
drop in at any time to lounge, chat, read, wait for
their friends, study their homework, write letters,
listen to their favorite radio programs, play their
favorite records or pound out “chop sticks” on
the piano. This room should never be closed for
meetings, but should always be available for the
use of the youth of the neighborhood whenever
the community center is open.

The Game Room. Many leisure-time agencies
have no “drop-in” activities at all; others have
game rooms for boys only. We need in every
center a co-recreation game room where boys and
girls and young men and young women can play
normally and naturally the many table games, toss
games, and fioor games which are popular, and of
course, table tennis. There should be, if possible. .
a number of table tennis tables so that no one will
have to wait long for a chance to play, and adja-
cent to these should be an abundance of benches
or seats for those waiting their turn, resting be-
tween games, or just enjoying the companionship

of others while watching the play. One school
center has one long, narrow room with ten table
tennis tables available every week day afternoon
and evening the year round.  ,

( Continued on page 359)

 

317

Co—Recreation in lndiana’s Largest Play Plant

UPPLYING RECREATION to fourteen hundred
S people six evenings a week is a large order

any way you look at it! This is the average
record of Evansville’s new mammoth community
play plant which serves both our city and its sur—
rounding territory. Located in what was formerly
a large furniture factory, the play center was
opened in 1936; on the opening day it was visited
by approximately 18,500 persons, all interested to
see what was going on.

Since the opening day community enthusiasm
has been unflagging. The center, which is under
VVPA auspices with the cooperation of the Town-
ship trustees and the County and City adminis-
trations, is open from 5:00 to 10:30 P. M. each
week day. Co-recreational activities are empha-
sized. Boys and girls, men and women alike, may
participate at the same time. We have worked
out the project on the theory that if boys and
girls are thrown together naturally where their
fun is supervised, they won’t be out in parked
autos, in questionable dance places and in resorts
that do not hesitate to provide youngsters with
intoxicants.

 

Courtesy Bureau of Recreation, Philadelphia

318

By JAMES R. NEWCOM

Director of Recreation
Evansville. Indiana

Dancing Attracts Thousands

The stellar attractions of the center are roller,
skating four nights a week and social dancing two
nights a week. The dance Hoor—the largest
dance-Hoor-and-skating-rink in southern Indiana
—is devoted to social dancing every Thursday
evening, when it attracts some 1,800 to 2,800 peo-
ple. With the average age of the attendants be:
tweenoeighteen and twenty years, it is apparent
that we are getting the young men and women of
the community. The dancers come early and stay
late. and they sit out very few dances. We re-
quire the orchestra to play almost constantly while
it is on duty, not allowing more than one minute
delay between numbers, with the result that the
dancers are ready to go home and to bed when the
danCe is over. There is now pall of smoke hanging
in the air—for smoking is not allowed in any of I
I the' recreation rooms,
except in a smoking
lounge in the base-
ment of the building.
Intoxicants, of course,
are not allowed in the-I
building. Any person!
found with liquor or}:
under the infiuence ofh'
liquor is denied ad-
mittance and is asked
to leave. This rule is:
strictly enforced.-

 

Whether in Evansville's I
huge play plant or at
Philadelphia's Funfield
Recreation CenterI so-
cial dancing occupies a ;
place of importance in '
any list of co-recrea-
tional activities! The
subiect will be discuss-
ed in the next issue of"
the magazine.

l
l
i
3
a

 

CO-RECREATION IN INDIAN/1’5 LARGEST PLAY PLANT

Many an individual, refused admission because he
has had a bottle of beer or so, though he is in no
sense of the word intoxicated, comes back the
next night in acceptable condition with a smile
and an apology. Petting is not permitted at all; a
man may even be asked not to put his arms
around his own wife! All rules are thoroughly
explained to the group and this close supervision
is not resented.

The dance music is furnished by two VVPA
twelve-piece orchestras, carrying out the night
club atmosphere. The orchestra, in uniform, is
seated in a regular shell, and the musicians play
from decorative, commercial dance-band music
racks made in the same building.

When the project was first opened, only modern
dances were contemplated. Apparently they failed
to meet all the needs of the community. There

' was a demand for old-time square dances, and
_ since the activities of the center are based on pub-
' lic demand, Wednesday nights were set aside for

old-fashioned dances. These are the most hilari-
ous nights of all; from Evansville and surround-
ing counties come the lovers of old dances to dis-

a port themselves. Sometimes as many as twenty

sets (circles) are on the dance floor, which, on
this evening, is reserved for adults only. In the
gallery an audience as large, if not larger, than

. the number of people on the floor watches the
' fun. Travelers passing through the city who have

heard the broadcast of the dance on the radio
often drop in.

The Dance Hall Becomes a Skating Rink
On Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday

- nights this big dance floor is turned into a roller
" skating rink, and the rumble of skate wheels
‘ nearly drowns out the music amplified by a pub-

lic address system. The skaters are controlled by
a leader out on the floor who sees that they do
not skate too fast and that there is no unneces-

_sary roughness. The leader also conducts social
'mixers such as couples only, bell skating, Ken~

tucky Steal, bag-tag and Grand March. Many

'skaters have purchased their own shoes and

skates and frequent the place every night that the
rink is open. Other persons who do not own
their own skates are charged a small fee of live
cents per session of one and one half hours. This
takes care of the wear and tear on the skates as
well as the other miscellaneous expenses inci-
dental to this activity.

319

Games Always Popular

Besides dancing and skating other diversions
are offered at the community center. The game
room attracts many people each evening, both
young and old. The game room equipment in-
cludes two box hockey games, two skee ball
games, two table hockey games, one swing ball
game, checkers, chess, carroms, go-mo-ku, cards,
parchesi, one dozen skill game machines and many
others. In one end a reading nook with tables
containing a variety of magazines, current and
back numbers, is very popular. There is also a
newspaper rack, with local daily papers, comics
and magazine sections and book shelves contain~
ing the classics, poems, religious texts, histories
and fiction. The reading room is attractively fur-
nished with a leather-covered divan, over-stuffed
chairs, floor lamps, table lamps, a radio and an
electric victrola. The game room is as free from
restrictions and regulation as possible, and the
atmosphere is one of freedom and choice. Prac-
tically all of the games were made in the work-
shop at the center.

Next to the game room there is a large room
where ten regulation ping-pong tables are con-
stantly in use. Very little cost is involved as the
paddles are made in the workshop, and approxi-
mately less than one dozen balls are used each
week. Industrial, church, boys’, men’s and other
ping-pong leagues meet in this room, which has a
ping-pong supervisor. Time limits are set so as
to allow more people to play on the tables.

Drama a Part of the Program

During the winter months a dramatic program
is sponsored at the center. ' Several marionette
classes for young and old are held each week and
much interest is being manifested along these
lines. Many marionette and puppet classes give
plays, using the puppets they have made under
direction of the WPA drama supervisor.

Other Activities

Indoor horseshoes, archery and rifle practice
were three popular pastimes of previous years.
The space occupied by these activities has been
turned over to new activities which are on the
whole less dangerous and accommodate more
people—a children’s puppet theater and children’s
nursery, shufHeboard courts, washer courts and a
marble golf course. In the nursery, which was
put in to accommodate the large number of young
children who came with their parents to the social

320 CO—RECREATION IN INDIAN/1’5 LARGEST PLAY PLANT

and old-time dances, a varied supervised play
program is carried on. Almost all conceivable
nursery play apparatus is there, including sand-
boxes, tables, chairs, blocks, and seesaws. There
are twelve small beds where children may rest

or sleep.

An extensive handcraft program is carried on
at the community center. Free instruction is
given in weaving, knitting, crocheting, and sew-
ing. The W'PA carpenters have made many kinds
of looms and frames which are loaned to the
handcraft class members. Classes are provided for
women’s and children’s handcraft groups and
there is a mixed class for adults.

The Workshop

The workshop, which is located on the top floor
of the building, is a busy place at all times. In
this up-to-date, wellsequipped shop, is created
most of the equipment used in the building and
on the public playgrounds. It was there that the
ping-pong and game tables were made and even
the paddles Used in ping-pong. The workmen
always are inventing something, and from their
ingenuity come many of the devices used in the

building and in the recreation activities elsewhere.
All of the grotesque figures and floats used in the
playground circus and Christmas parade were
made by the creation staff of the W PA; modelers,
plasterers, painters, carpenters and seamstresses,
all played an active part in this work.

A Club Program

Recently a club work program has been ins

augurated. Some of the clubs that have been or-
ganized are: Clabber, Shuffleboard, Indian, Bi-

cycle, W’asher, Art, Harmonica, Tumbling, Gui- _

tar, Skating, Boys’ and Girls.’ These clubs meet
at the community center one evening each week
under capable leadership. Through club work we
hope to create, by providing good leaders, intel-
ligent organization, and a stimulating and chal-
lenging program; that kind of environment which
contributes to personality development and social
mindedness. The club work program is proving
one of the best mediums for making our work
educationally and socially valuable.

Values Recognized

In order to get a cross section of public opin-

ion as to the value of the program at the center,
the presidents of the P.T.A.’s, the City Park

Board, the Superintendent of Schools, supervis-
ors, ministers and others who might constructively
criticize the work, were invited to come in at any
time and see the various activities as they were
being carried on. The unanimous comment of all
the visitors was that it was amazing that such a
large number of people were being taken care of
so successfully; it was difficult for them to visual-
ize 2,800 people between the ages of sixteen and
forty all dancing and playing together without
trouble. We have never had any serious trouble
since the opening of the center—not even a fight.
While watching a dance one night, the judge of
our Probate Court commented that our dancers
do not mind bumping into each other—they just
“grin and bear it”-——while if the same couples
were bumped into on the floor of one of our
community dance taverns there would be a fight
immediately !

About a year ago a three months’ survey was
made at the center to find out from what part of
the city most of the patrons were coming, their
age, sex, and whether or not the program met
their requirements. After this survey a spot map
was made which showed heavy representation
from the low ivage industrial areas and residen-
tial districts. This was exactly the group in which
we were most interested.

The tremendous success of the community cen—
ter and its unblemished record are a source of
great pride to our Department. It has served
more persons during 1938 than the entire city
recreation program of ten years ago. The center
has done an excellent job in supplying to many
thousands of Evansville and Tri-State citizens
such a program with little or no cost to them.
The workers and leaders themselves on this rec-

reation project have benefited very much in that . '

they have been trained as leaders and have a
higher standing in their community; they have I
demonstrated by their leadership and workman- "
ship just what can be accomplished on such proj-
ects with proper guidance-

“Leaders, as they work together on everyday
problems of living, are raising questions about the
Opportunities for enriching life from beginning
to end by guiding young people into and through
high moments of vivid experiences. . . . And they
are learning through creative activities to give ex-
pression to beauty and nobility in human life. All, "
around us are truths of human relationships and ‘

principles of great living to be discovered.”
—Pa1.zline B. Williamson.

 

 

The Municipalities Look at Co-Recrealzion

Of all recreation leaders, municipal directors might justifiably approach
co-recreation with some reluctance. They handle the largest and most un-
selected groups; they live in glass houses at which any voter who chooses
may throw stones. Yet in the stories which follow we see them courageously
tackling the job of making possible for hundreds and thousands of citizens
a normal, wholesome association of both sexes. Reading between the lines,
you’ll see the vast enthusiasm of these directors; you’ll see how schools
are recognizing their usefulness and parents are appreciating their work.

OOR Bells Ring for Hikers. Persons who have
D signilied interest in hikes in Austin, Texas,

but just haven’t done anything about it, are
due to have their door bells rung by enthusiastic
members of the calling committee of the Munici-
pal Hiking Club. Succumbing to such contagious
salesmanship, new members are easily recruited
for the club’s outings, which are capably organized
by an advisory board appointed by the city’s Rec-
reation Department.

Neighborhood Old Time Dance Club. Repeated

requests come to the average municipal recreation
department for some suitable recreation for the
“forty and. over” groups of both sexes. In High-
land Park, Michigan, the answer was found in an
old—time dance club. With little money available
for the enterprise, the superintendent of recrea-
tion enlisted the volunteer help of a neighborhood
enthusiast who rounded up other enthusiasts.
Soon a thriving self—supporting club was enjoying,
in the held house, bi—monthly dancing to the
strains of schottische, gavotte and waltz.

A committee within the 'club passes upon all
music details and hires the four-piece orchestra.
Every member is charged twenty-live cents for
each evening’s attendance. This charge covers
music, caller’s fee, light, heat and janitor’s ser-
vices. Under this plan it is necessary for the Rec-
reation Department to furnish only the building
and an occasional word of advice or praise. From
H. G. Myron, Superintendent of Recreation. "

"Glorified Hangouts" in Sioux City. An up-to-
(late version of the delightful old-fashioned parlor
where young people met informally to talk, sing
and enjoy one another’s society, is to be pro-
vided in each recreation center in Sioux City,
Iowa, operated by the Department of Public Rec-
reation. These rooms—for which the local P.T.A.

will furnish hosts and hostesses— will be attract-
ively furnished with radios, pianos and table game
equipment.

The “glorified hangout” is but one of the splen—
did co-recreational projects with which this city
is enriching the lives of its younger folk. Drama
clubs, art and craft classes, dart baseball, chess
instruction, card games and social recreation
parties—--—such activities have transformed the rec-
reation center from a place where young people
used to meet to go somewhere else, to a spot
where they spend entire happy evenings together.
And in addition, folk dancing, square dancing and
other old—fashioned dancing are conducted at each
of the city’s recreation centers one evening each
week. Hundreds of young men and women, to-
gether with their mothers and fathers enjoy to-
gether the quadrilles, reels, schottisches, two
steps and waltzes.

Husband-and-Wife Volleyball. Husband-and-

wife volleyball leagues are beginning to spring up
at many of the Los Angeles, California, municipal
recreation centers. Volleyball is becoming an out-
standing attraction for many groups of young
people.

Parents Behind Manitowoc's Program. “Parents
of children who attend our dances are grateful
that the department has provided this activity and
cooperate splendidly whenever called upon to
assist in any manner,” says L. W. Robertson, Di-
rector of Recreation, Manitowoc, Wisconsin.
Social dancing is but one of the co-activities car-
ried on successfully in Manitowoc, others being
badminton, volleyball, paddle tennis, some low-
organized playground games, and Friday evening
social recreation hours for junior high school and
senior high school clubs. There seems to be a
variation of practice among recreation directors

321

322 THE MUNICIPALITIES LOOK AT CO-RECREATION

as to whether high school
age clubs should be
“closed” or “open” —
that is, restricted or not
restricted to students of
certain high schools. In
Manitowoc the clubs are
open to any young peo-
ple of the right age who
care to join.

Badminton Nights for
High School Students. As
often as possible during
.the week, a badminton
night is held for high
school students in Al-
bion, Michigan. The
schools’ recreation de-
partment owns twenty
badminton racquets
which are used for this
purpose. Each player pays
five cents to cover the
cost of shuttlecocks, but no other charge is made.
Usually a boy brings a girl, but a great deal of
changing partners goes on during the evening.
Ping-pong tables are in use most of the evening
so that everyone has something to do. The group
plays from seven to nine-thirty. It is a very suc-
cessful project, and will receive more emphasis in
next winter’s program.

Roller skating is another activity frequently
held for high school boys and girls. Skates are
furnished and no charge is made. At least once
a month a community sing is scheduled in con-
junction with the recreation dance which is held
regularly. These sings have proved popular, and
will Soon be held more frequently.

Playwriting Class in Drama Program. Through
playwriting classes, dra-
matics classes and dancing

classes, Oklahoma City’s large
co—recreational Drama Asso-

Children’s, Youth’s, and
Adults’ divisions not only
highly entertaining but cul-
turally worthwhile. Okla-
homa City also has a Munici—
pal Music Association in
which men and women re-
hearse, broadcast and put on

 

Courtesy Los Angles Playground and Recreation Department

So great has been the response to our
request for information on co-recrea-
ciation makes the work of its tional activities that we have been
forced to issue some of the material
in what might be called "symposium"
form. You will find here many novel
ideas from all over the country which
may help you in your program. Lack
of space has also made it necessary
for us to postpone until later issues
of the magazine a number of the in-
teresting articles received. They will
soon as possible.

be published as

performances together.
From G. W. Danielson,
Director of Recreation.

Art Not Forgotten in
Millburn. New Jersey. In
Millburn’s well-balanced
recreation program the
following co-recreational
activities have been con-
ducted with a good deal.
of success: social clubs
(dancing and other types
for the high school age
group and an adult
group); badminton (for
husbands and wives -——
others may also play);
art class (adults) ; mixed
bowling tournaments
(adults) ; adult educa-
tion program (wood—
work, metal work, bridge,
painting, photography,
art craft, special discussion groups on interna-
tional affairs). Worthy of note is the emphasis
on art—usually a favorite adult activity under
able leadership. From Harry A. W’uelser, Super-
intendent of Recreation. '

They Like Gay Seasonal Parties. In Kingston.
Massachusetts, the National Youth Administra-
tion, with the cooperation of the local Playground
Department and of a live recreation committee
representing fifteen civic organizations, conducts
a year-round recreation program of which an out-
standing feature is a social recreation program
for young people. Among the events enjoyed by
the young people are an evening of dancing in- ‘
struction followed by social dancing and such
special parties as: Hallowe’en Costume Party in '
October, Hunter’s Moon‘
Dance in November, Winter
Carnival Dance, Colonial
Dance in February, St. Pate
rick’s Day Party, style shoW;
musicale and 'moving picture
cabaret dance. From Arthur
C. King, In, District Super- .
visor of N.Y.A., Fall River:

Massachusetts.
"Bike-Hikes" and Other'

"Co-Activities" in Decatur.,‘

Weekly hikes and bicycle'

THE MUNICIPALITIES LOOK AT CO-RECRIEATION

' trips to places of special interest are scheduled in
four sections of Decatur, Illinois, for boys and
girls of junior high school age and under, by the
city recreation department. Many of the hikes
are led by a nature guide.

Hiking is but one of Decatur’s many delightful
I activities for mixed groups. There are seven
parks in the city in which social dances are held
, every Friday night during the summer, under the
' supervision of the playground director and a com-
5 mittee of six or eight young men and women from
9 the neighborhood. The Junior Dramatic Club in—
cludes boys and girls from fifteen to eighteen
5 years of age and serves as a feeder for the older
group, the Municipal Players.’ The junior group
studies acting, reads plays and ,puts on skits, but
I does not produce plays before outside groups. At
leommunity forums, which are co-educational,
tsubjects of interest to mixed groups, such as
:| Dutch treats and marriage, are discussed. Other
lco-activities that are enjoyed in Decatur are: tap
ldancing, folk dancing, orchestra, progressive
ligames, handcrafts and puppetry; most of these
,- are organized on
' a club basis.

The Federal
lMusic Project
;aids the program
lin many ways.
‘The twenty-five
{piece orchestra
'plays for social
idances, square
idances, folk
tdances and com-
tmunity sings. The

forty-piece band
lplays for festivals
and other special
events. All activi-
ties are conducted
under trained
lleadership, with

t Of all the co-rec-
l reationalactivities
‘ reported. hiking
is one of the
most popular

 

the cooperation in many instances of neighbor-
hood adult recreation clubs.

Self-Operating Dance Clubs in Austin. Among
the popular co-recreational activities which the
Austin, Texas, Recreation Department promotes
are five married couples dance clubs and one club
of single girls who invite their dancing partners.
Each club has a board of directors appointed by
the superintendent of recreation which assumes
all of the administrative duties of the club. The
Recreation Department furnishes leadership and
a place for the group to dance; each club pays for
its own music and a service charge for the use of
the dance Floor.

Young Folks Set Pace for Elders. 80 popular has
a social dancing club for boys and girls in Two
Rivers, Wisconsin, proved, that 160 older persons
signed a petition requesting a similar program.

0 Sole Mio! in Dearborn. To mention Dearborn,
Michigan’s fascinating opera class first is not to
overlook that metropolis’s other flourishing co-
activities. But this ambitious adult group, which,

 

Photo by Laurence V. Loy, Amherst, Mass.

323

324 THE MUNICIPALITIES LOOK AT CO—RECREATION

a551sted by the dramatic class, presents winter and
summer programs, is attempting something a bit
out of the ordinary.

The Recreation Department serves young peo-
ple from sixteen to twenty-one years of age both
through its own centers and by helping churches,
clubs, and other community units to develop pro-
grams within their own organizations. At the mu-
nicipal centers mixed groups of adults enjoy such
activities as badminton, table tennis, swimming,
volleyball, music. social dancing, social dancing
instruction, and seasonal parties. Badminton has
emerged as Dearborn’s most p0pular adult ac-
tivity. Since its introduction last year in the cen-
ter, attendance records have doubled. Other
rapidly developing interests are volleyball, tobog-
ganing, skating, dramatics and music, besides the
opera class. From Henry D. Schubert, Superin-
tendent of Recreation. Dearborn, Michigan.

Highland Park Votes for Badminton. “\Vithout

doubt badminton is our outstanding co—recrea—
tional activity,” says George Scheuchenpflug, Di-
rector of Community Service of Highland Park,
Illinois. Four years’ continued growth of the
sport is due, in Mr. Scheuchenpflug’s opinion, to
the fact that it has been promoted entirely as a
co-recreational activity. While most popular with
the “young marrieds,” the sport draws widely
varied age groups. Practice rackets are loaned to
beginners and instruction in fundamentals is given
in many of the classes. At first “birds” are sup—
plied to players, but as they become more profici-
ent they are 'expected to buy their own. Court
play is for half-hour periods and the instructor
sees to it that all who come get to play for at
least two half-hour periods. Directors discourage
establishment of groups that want always to play
together.

Volleyball a Favorite in Denver. Volleyball and
dancing as co-recreative diversions interest adults
in Denver, Colorado. In the junior and senior
high school groups the following activities are
rated t0ps by mixed groups:
dancing, volleyball, shuffle-
board, ping-pong and archery.
From Willard N. Greim, Di-
rector of Health Education,
Denver Public Schools.

Fort Morgan Emphasizes Co-
Recreation. Folks in Fort
Morgan, Colorado, have many
opportunities to take part in

"We find that mixed group recreation
tends to create the friendly. cooper-
ative spirit among young people
which is so necessary to an effective
recreation program. We heartily en-
dorse co-recreational activities pro-
vided the leadership available can
promote the program sluccesstully."-—-
G. W. Danielson, Director of Rec--
reation, Oklahoma City. Oklahoma.

mixed—group activities. Children enjoy tap danc-
ing, singing games, storytelling, checkers, Chinese
checkers, dominoes, wari, ping—pong, mill, pick-
up-sticks, jacks, tag games, relay races, shuffle-
board, circle games, line games, dramatics, folk
dancing, volleyball, deck tennis, arts and crafts and
social clubs. The adults favor square dancing,
shuHieboard, ping-pong, volleyball, deck tennis,
social dancing, cards, mill, wari, checkers, Chinese
checkers, puzzles, arts and crafts. From Henry
Amicarella, Director of Recreation.

Normal Social Situations Stressed. In Wichita,
Kansas, boys are being taught how to invite girls
to be their partners in social activities; girls are
taught how to accept invitations gracefully. Co-
recneation which is a weekly feature of the phy-
sical education program in two of the city high
schools offers a fine opportunity for developing
normal social situations, Wichita educators feel.
Every effort is being made to teach some of the
manners and customs desirable for social gather—
ings. By using a radio speaker in the gymnasium,
one physical education director can stand on a
platform with a microphone and with a few as-
sistants helping on the Hoor, do a splendid piece
of teaching. Instead of dressing for their regular
gym classes, the boys and girls put on their gym
shoes, go immediately to the gymnasium and
enter into their chosen activities. When the pro-
gram was initiated some difficulty was experienced
in inducing boys and girls to participate, but now
greater difficulty is encountered if the program is
omitted!

Favorite indoor co—recreative pursuits of these
high school youngsters are swimming, square
dancing, softball, tennis and volleyball. Outdoor
co-activities include tether ball, horseshoes, cro-
quet, softball, tennis, swimming, canoeing, roller
skating and bicycling.

Washtubs a Thumping Success. W ashtubs, wash-
boards and other unorthodox instruments were
used in interesting a group of colored boys and
girls in forming a rhythm band
at Lincoln Recreation Center,
Harlem, sponsored by the
New York City Boys’ Athletic
League. Although rhythm
bands are usually thought of
as suited to small children,
Miss R.'Vereda Pearson, the
leader of- the group, found the

(Continued on page 360)

l

Activities of Co—Recreation Clubs

IIY D0 young
.people join co-
recreation

clubs? When boys and
girls try to explain

Milwaukee’s titty-three co-recreation'

clubs enjoy good times, learn to solve
their difficulties, and acquire inval-
uable experience in the art of living

need for leadership
and came to us seek-
ing it. Some came just
for a place to meet.
These were usually

’why they wish to join

this type of club or
organize one, they often say
one thing and mean another.
Or they have several reasons. ’
Perhaps it is the impersonal
boy and girl relationship that a club affords that
attracts many. The expressed purpose of twenty-
nine of the fifty-three co-recreation clubs in the
Milwaukee Municipal Recreation Department in
the leaders’ histories of them, was “just to have a
good time.” Some clubs were vague in explaining
what they meant by a “good time”; more were
explicit and listed hikes, dancing, sports, parties,
and similar activities. A few of the fifty-three
clubs gave very serious reasons. One even wished
to study the Bible and did, all this year. Another
had a series of discussions on their philosophy of
life. Several were interested in voCational guid-
ance. If they are serious-minded and desire to
follow a serious line of study, we try to place
them in a stimulating environment related to their
interest and to find a leader trained to meet their
need.

Clubs know, however, that they do not have to
pretend a serious interest, if they do not have
one, to get a place to meet in the center. If they
wish to organize a club just to have good times
and say so, we admit them to the centers. After
all, it is their leisure time and the leaders under-
stand that even a good time can involve vital
social processes that make for wholesome per-
sonality growth. Situations arise in the planning
and executing of a “good time program" that
under good leadership result in adjustments and
in the exercise of many qualities that these boys
and girls will find essential in their relationships
with those with whom they live and work and
play.

“Storm and Stress” Periods!

Some of these co-recreation clubs started as
natural groups, were organized and functioning as

I clubs before they came to the center, but felt a

By MARION PREECE

Department of Municipal Recreation
MilwaukeeI Wisconsin

high school graduates

who wished to con—
tinue school friendships.
Other clubs have had as a
nucleus boys’ or girls’ clubs
that opened their member—
ship to the opposite sex after having existed two
or three years in a state of “single blessedness.”
Clubs have started out as segregated clubs,
changed to co-recreation, and then broken up into
segregated clubs again. This is particularly true
of some of the younger boys’ and girls’ groups.
“Girls always want their own way,” or “Oh, those
old boys, they want to run everything.” One club
divided over a whittling project that the boys tried
to force the girls to accept! Club leaders have
solved such problems by advising the boys to form
their club and the girls theirs, and then to come
together for a recreation period or an occasional
hike or party.

Some of our members have had rather stormy
careers before they came to the centers, not only
as individuals but as club groups. Ten girls came
to one of the centers asking for a meeting place.
The director assigned a leader to them. Yes, they
told the leader, they had been organized for some
time as a club. They had been meeting at the
homes of members. No, they weren’t going to
meet in the homes any more, and they didn’t want
any boys in their club now. Yes, there had been
ten more members, boys. There followed a rather
disjointed history of the group as a club. Evi-
dently home after home had been closed to them
with broken windows, broken dishes, noise and
general rowdy conduct as reasons. The final meet-
ing place had been the home of an elder sister of
one of the members who turned her apartment
over to them one night a week when she and her
husband went to a club of their own. But this
refuge was decisively denied them after a particu-
larly destructive meeting which had called down
the wrath of the neighbors on the head of the big-
hearted sister. So they came to the center like
world-weary little women seeking a retreat. The

325

326 ACTIVITIES OF CO-RECREATION CLUBS

club must go on, minus its
male contingent, however.
For two years they continu-
ed as a girls’ club, a very
excellent girls’ club. They
are now some of the most
resourceful and reliable girls
in the center.Their stand-
ards, especially those of a
good time, have undergone
a change. This cannot be
attributed just to the age;

There are 7.528 young people in organized
clubs in the social centers of the Milwau-
kee School Department of Municipal Rec-
reation. Of this number 2,948 are of grade
school age and are classed as Juniors. The
Senior Division is composed of 4,580 high
school and college studentsI and employed
and unemployed young men and women
registered in 266 clubs. Two hundred and
thirteen clubs are segregated clubs of
boys or girls, and fifty-three are co-recre-
ation clubs, or clubs made up of both
boys and girls. It is to the activities of
these clubs that this article is devoted.

the gym dancing country
dances. Some members may
be just sitting on the side-
lines talking; boys and girls
together having a good time.
Another club may be set-
ting the stage for the pro-
duction of a play one of
their members has written.
He commences to look about
for a chance to join a group
or to interest some of his

they are still in their teens.

We like to believe that the

environment and the understanding leadership of
the center were factors in the change. This year
they asked their leader’s opinion on opening the
club membership to boys again. She advised them
to invite the boys to a few social affairs to test
the compatibility of the group. Today they are a
Hourishing new co-recreation club.

A few co-recreation clubs are off—shoots of
special interest groups—athletics, drama, nature,
music, or handcraft. Some had their beginnings
within the center itself in such activities as ball-
room dance classes, game rooms, co-recreation
rooms, Saturday night dances, and other com-
munity affairs.

The Power of Suggestion

The power of suggestion is a factor in promot-
ing these organizations. A boy comes to Sat-
urday night dances and is met by club members
who are acting as hosts and hostesses. Or he
wanders into an activity room during the week
and sees a club making decorations for a party,

favors and programs. He sees other clubs start—

ing out for a moonlight hike or a treasure hunt.
He passes a club room exuding the tantalizing
odor of popping corn. In another room he hears
a club rehearsing a “sing band” program. He
catches glimpses of boys and girls running type-
writers and mimeograph machines getting out the
club bulletin or a center news sheet. He inquires
of the door man or some one in the hall the mean-
ing of the activities in these rooms and learns that
these are co—recreation club rooms. Club rooms!
Why, they are just class rooms with seats pushed
back, blackboards washed clean, and boys and
girls his own age sitting at the teachers’ desks
conducting meetings or discussions! Later in the
evening he may see these same clubs in the lower
hall playing shuffleboard, learning archery, or in

friends in starting one of
their own.

The centers have organized some co-recreation
clubs to solve playground, neighborhood, or cen-
ter problems. In attempting to solve these prob-
lems new ones are often created. Only skilled,
mature leaders are put in charge of these groups.

Regarding Competitive Activities

The Department has no pattern to which the
club must conform in organization, number of
members, age grouping, program, or method of
conducting meetings. These are determined by
the club itself with the aid of the leader. Nor
does the Department make any stipulation as to
a club’s participation in other activities in the
center. No service is demanded of it. There are
no awards, no point systems. It is not asked for
the sake of “dear old” this or that to take part in
any competitive program. There are no routine
leagues or tournaments. To be sure there are
leagues and there are tournaments. There is lots
of competition, but all competitive events are or-
ganized by the,clubs, by their club council in the
center or by the All-City Club Council. Partici:
pation is purely voluntary. There is no discredit
cast on a club or a leader if a club is not
represented.

The Department itself has organized only two
out and out competitive events in nine years for
these clubs. One was the “Better Homes Con-
test” in which boys’ and girls’ clubs entered home
units in an exhibit and competed for nothing more
than a blue ribbon. These units were boys’ rooms,
girls’ rooms, living rooms, kitchens, recreatior
rooms, or a corner of One of these rooms with
rugs, curtains and furniture the clubs had madf:
or redecorated. This contest was held every
spring for six years, but wore itself out. This:
year we conducted a Hag making contest whicl
the Colonial Dames sponsored in the centers

ACTIVITIES OF CO-RECREATION CLUBS 327

Clubs made the historical flags of America and
they were given to the Department for class work
with the foreign born after the contest. Two
prizes were given. They were pictures painted by
well-known Wisconsin artists under the WPA.
They now hang in two centers after appropriate
unveiling ceremonies presided over by the win—
ning clubs.

For three years the All—City Club Council has
conducted a table tennis tournament. For two
years we have had ice festivals with competitive
events. Three years ago we had an all-city club
vaudeville. It was non-competitive, but many of
the boys and girls were disappointed that no de-
cisions were given as to which club had the best
performance. There has been some talk of giving
another one and making it competitive.

Cooperative Projects

There are innumerable projects conducted co—
operatively. It is impossible to attribute the pro-
motion of any of these activities exclusively to
the co-recreation clubs, as they are participated in
by other clubs. Sometimes they are limited to two
or three clubs; sometimes all the clubs in one
center join forces, and several times a year the
clubs of the entire Department cooperate.

Some of these projects are civic, as is the Mil-
waukee Midsummer Festival where the clubs
lassist the Festival Commission by cooperating
with other city groups on the seven—day program.
The Youth Citizenship Council of Milwaukee
County has asked our All-City Club Council to
cooperate in registering all the young 'men and
young women who are eligible to vote for the
first time this year, and to assist in a program at
the State Fair on Citizenship Day. This year the
All-City Club Council organized a drive for eradi-
cation of hay fever weeds
in response to a procla-
mation by the Governor
iof the State. Many of
the cooperative projects
’are purely social, such as
dances and picnics.

A Few “Isolationists”

The first—year clubs as
a rule find interest and
ctivity enough in their
' wn organization. Some
pf the large clubs con-
:tinue this isolation policy,

The age range of the |,7|3 members of the co-
recreation clubs maintained by the Department
of Municipal Recreation is from fourteen to
twenty-five years. There are only thirty mem-
bers who are under fifteen years of ageI and
sixty-five who have passed their twenty-fifth
birthday. The number of members in the co-rec-
reation clubs tends to be much larger than the
number in the segregated clubs. Fifty per cent
of the co-recreation clubs have twenty or more
members, while only eight per cent of the seg-
regated clubs have twenty or more members.
The lowest number of members in any co-recrea-
tion club is ten. as opposed to clubs of five mem-
bers in the segregated groups——statistica| evi-
dence of the popularity of co-recreation clubs.

especially if they have money enough to expand
their activities beyond the confines of the center
and the immediate community. One club this sum-
mer had a dancing party at the City Club; another
club. a buffet supper and its initiation ceremony
at the Milwaukee Athletic Club. Others occa-
sionally have dinner and dance at a downtown
hotel. This is a new form of adventure for many
of them who are fearful of crossing a frontier
guarded by a uniformed doorman without a van—
guard of their club leaders. These affairs cost
more than most of the clubs have to spend regu—
larly for their parties. For some clubs it means
saving dues for an entire year to meet the ex—
pense. But such parties do not appeal to all clubs,
nor are all clubs ready for them. It is at this
point that the udgment and the tact of the leader
count. Leaders at times innst make decisions for
their clubs. sometimes quite arbitrary ones, espe—
cially when standards of conduct and the policies
of the Department are involved.

Standards of Conduct

Last year the refreshment committee of a new
club brought in a report that included the recom-
inendation of the purchase of a case of beer for
their first big party. When the leader explained
that beer could not be served in a school building
some of the boys sneeringly dismissed the build-
ing as a fit place for a party. They would go
somewhere else. There was opposition to this as
the plans of other committees had gone too far to
be so easily scrapped. The use of the teachers’
dining room had been granted them and the dec-
orations had been made for that room, games and
dancing had been planned, 'favors had been bought.

The leader, a young woman whose experience
in college as a sorority girl had made her opinions
in social affairs generally
acceptable to the girls,
was openly laughed at by
some of the boys when
she suggested , punch in
place of beer. Not only
the party but the club it-
self seemed to be on the
verge of dissolving into
nothingness right there,
but by dint of hard work
with the girls, who were
younger than the boys,
as is the case in most of
our co-recreation clubs,

328 ACTIVITIES OF CO-RECREATION CLUBS

and with the help of some of the boys, the party
came off on scheduled time. A punch bowl was
heaped with colored ice cubes that were covered
with fruit juice and ginger ale. The beer was for-
gotten for the evening, but the club broke up soon
after.

It is very difficult for a leader to find a satis-
factory substitute not only for liquor, if it is gen-
erally acceptable to the group, but also for some
of the activities that are thought by the group to
be the only means of entertainment. Some activi-
ties must be prohibited. Some of them merely dis-
couraged from time to time in order to interest
the group in experimenting in different forms of

recreation.

Finding Substitutes for Dancing

Dancing seems to be the first suggestion and
sometimes the only one that some clubs make for
every social gathering.

Seven years ago a plan was made by a leader
and her drama club for all the drama clubs and
classes of the Department to get together for in-
formal social affairs. The leader and the club
promoting the idea had a Christmas party to
which they invited the other drama clubs and the
classes with their leaders and instructors so that
the plan could be discussed. It was decided that
the only time that everyone would be free to go
would be Sunday afternoon, as :most of the mem-
bers worked or were in school week days, and
nights were filled with rehearsals and productions.

The leader presiding then stated that her idea
and her club’s was a series of teas for which they
would procure a good speaker each time, some
one to talk on the arts of the theater. Tea! at a
party? Why not have ice cream? And a speaker!
Why not a dance? What was the fun of a party
if you couldn't dance? The leader explained that
she doubted the Department would open a build-
ing Sunday just for dancing when almost every
center in town had dancing the night before. She
added that Sunday dancing, furthermore, would
be frowned on in many neighborhoods. She and
her club offered to take charge of the first Sunday
afternoon. _

This occurred at the time when the depression
was at its worst. There was not much money in
the club treasury, the leader said, but a tea would
cost very little. The wort “tea” brought forth
shrugs and frowns and a few rude titters from
some individuals every time it was mentioned.
However, there were enough of the clubs in favor

of the plan to encourage the leader and her club
to try it. .

Invitations were sent out. The day came. There
was a long table with candles and flowers and bor-
rowed silver. The girls poured. The boys of the
club “faced down” the other young men as they
passed sandwiches and cakes. There was music,
there was an excellent speaker and there was a
fine audience. The day was a success.

That was in 1932 and we are still having Sun—
day Drama Teas. We always have good speakers,
drama critics from the newspapers, drama direct-
ors from colleges or little theaters, artists, musi-
cians, designers; actors.

The suggestion that there be dancing on these
Sunday afternoons comes up every so often when
new members join, but it is always talked down
by the older members. There is, never a question
concerning tea. The Department has even pur-
chased two samovars!

The boys carry the heavy trays of cups and
plates to the kitchen and the washing of them is

. shared by boys and girls. At one of the centers

some cups were broken one Sunday. The social
center director wrote a note asking that the boys.
be kept out of the kitchen, as the report had been
made that when they washed the dishes those who
were drying them lined up in a bucket brigade
formation and cups were thrown in rapid suc-
cession, from boy to boy to the cupboard! The
letter was given to the head of the Department
who answered that she felt that the experience
these boys were getting in assisting the girls in
entertaining and taking the responsibility of do-
ing the not too attractive job of cleaning the kit-
chen was worth a broken cup or two. But the.‘

boys were asked to use trays to carry the dishes.
to the cupboard. .

Service Activities

Such activities 'which are open to our clubs'
from every section of the city furnish opportuni— .
ties for the casual meeting of different nationality
groups and promote understanding and tolerance.
New acquaintances are made and sometimes fol-
lowed up by invitations to parties, discussion
groups or even by requests for help.

A Polish Club this spring was working on an
operetta that called for an Italian folk dance. They
asked a club from an Italian neighborhood to ‘-
teach them the Tarantella. After the first lesson
one of the Italian girls said to her leader: “Oh;
we had so much fun. They were so nice. We

|
l
n
l
l

r
I

ACTIVITIES OF CO-RECREATION CLUBS

laughed so much. They
had an accordian player
and all he could play was
Polish songs. So we
taught them to dance
Italian to Polish music."

Though the majority of
the fifty-three co-rec’re-
ation clubs gave “having
a good time” as their ma-
jor- interest when they
organized, their histories
show that many of them
have worked out well-
rounded programs, in-
cluding discussions and
forums on youth prob-
lems and questions of the
day; programs of sports
and games including
skating, hiking, bicycling,
theater parties, and ser-
vice projects. Even the
most frivolous co-recrea-
tion clubs at some time
or another seem to burn
with a desire to serve, “to do good for some one.’
At Thanksgiving there are always baskets filled ;
at Christmas toys are made or old ones mended,
dolls are dressed, games made. Often there is
very little money in 1the club and it taxes the lead-
er’s ingenuity, if ideas are scarce in the club, to
help find projects to satisfy this desire to give
that will cost little or nothing but look well.

One year a club learned Christmas stories and
during the holidays went to orphanages and told
them to the children. And of course there are
always carols at Christmas for those burning can-
dles in their windows. This year, while the other
clubs of the center went caroling, two clubs re-
mained in the club room and made doughnuts and
coffee which they served to the singers when they
came back cold and hungry.

This spring a club council at one of the centers
asked their director to teach them playground
games for little children, and they are volunteer-
ing their services in the neighborhood for back-
yard play.

In one of the centers where co-recreation ac-
tivities for the young people have been frowned
upon by the parents who are largely foreign born,
one of the clubs with an age range of from eigh-
teen to twenty-five years has sponsored several

3

329

 

Courtesy Illilwaukee Department of Municipal Recreation

successful dancing parties for high school age
grOUps. The parents will permit their boys and
girls to go to these dancing parties where the
older brothers and sisters take the responsibility
of keeping a watchful eye on them.

Another club built brush shelters and feeding
hoppers for birds and small wild animals in the
parks. The Izaak Walton League furnished sev-
eral hundred pounds of grain which the club car-
ried to the hoppers in the woods during the win-
ter months. They combined this project with a
pleasure trip and always took along their skis in
snowy weather. Other clubs have made bird
houses and installed them in the parks, assuming
the responsibility of cleaning them in the spring.

One club transplanted seedlings into a tree
nursery on 'a playground, planted Hower seeds in
Hats and distributed the plants to the children in
the neighborhood for window boxes and flower
pots, sponsored a series of three nature lectures
at their center, and are furnishing a nature mu-
seum at their center. A very popular service is
editing and printing a center news-sheet which
involves setting up departments for reporting,
editing, illustrating, printing and distributing.

Several of the drama clubs each year produce
as their service one full length play for our Mu-

 

\

330 ACTIVITIES OF CO-RECRIEATION CLUBS

nicipal Children's Theater. At first this was not a
popular project. The clubs preferred doing adult
plays and thought this “fairy tale—kid stuff” he-
neath their concern. There are still many drama
clubs in the Department which do not care to
spend the time it takes to do a children’s play and
give it for a children’s audience, but the ones that
have taken it over enjOy the reception the chil-
dren give them and include a play for them in
their years program now as a matter of course.

What About Money-Making?

The problem of money—making is one that
comes up every so often in club and council meet-
ing. Sometimes it seems to be just the desire to
be making money that motivates all the hard work,
or it may be for the satisfaction of seeing some—
thing result from work as concrete as cold cash,
a satisfaction that the present economic situation
has made impossible for so many boys and girls.
Sometimes there is a real need for money, as
there was this year for beds and bedding at
Mauthe Lake. an overnight, week-end camp the
State has given us permission to use.

Clubs and Councils are not permitted, accord-
ing to the Department's policy, to make money in
' the school house for the purchase of personal
property for club members such as sweaters,
leather jackets, golf clubs, and badminton rackets.
These needs may be met on a club project basis
by money-making affairs outside the school build-
ing, such as theater parties in cooperation with
neighborhood motion picture theaters, or paper
and candy sales. But the personal needs of club
members have been taken care of occasionally by
club dues. One treasury last winter was almost
depleted by the purchase of trousers, sox, shirts,
and a sweater as a birthday gift for' a club mem-
ber who had been out of work for a long time.
Two birthday cakes were added for good measure,
one for a party at the center and the other for the
guest of honor to take home.

Then there was the time when all the clubs in
a center donated funds to cover the funeral ex-
penses of a club boy who had been the only wage

earner in his family and had died leaving only
sixteen dollars in the bank.

Center Councils have various methods of mak—
ing money for center projects such as shows and
fairs, but the most popular one and the surest one
is selling pop at the Saturday night dances. The
sale of pop not only gives the club members ex—
perience in buying and selling, and in handling

money, but it piles up a meat little account for the
Councils which are spent so judiciously that they
sometimes almost miss being spent at all while
conference after conference is held and price lists
are consulted to enable the Council to get the most

for its money!

Spotlights have been bought for the lighting ef-
fects for parties and dances, screens and flats for
the stages, dishes and silver, paint and even radios
for club rooms.

Their Own Club Rooms

We do have, in several of the centers, club
rooms that are available entirely for club pur-
poses. Furniture has been made, old furniture re-
painted, and curtains and pictures purchased for
them. Sometimes club leaders have been able
through suggestions to get the clubs to call in ex-
pert volunteer help on decorating problems. Oc-
casionally some one in the group has so success-
fully sold his own decorating ideas to the other
members that there has been nothing to do but
accept them and carry them out for better or for
worse! The effects have been pretty gruesome in
some instances, but the lessons learned through
these mistakes have been well worth all the scrap-
ing and scouring it has taken to remove the paint.

The furnishings for the club rooms have been
gathered from every corner of the city. Old
pianos can now be had for the carting. The city
frequently condemns buildings, and our Depart—
ment has salvaged enough stoves and sinks from
them to supply every club room. These sinks and
stoves are far from being new models, but wooden
covers have been made for them which are painted
to look like chests. The stoves have encouraged 2‘
the art of cooking in both boys’ and girls’ clubs.
Parties grow more elaborate as skill increases.
This means going to the pop funds for dishes,
silver, linens, and even copies of Emily Post!

Applied Etiquette

Mrs. Post has been featured in more than one
club program. This interest in the right thing to
do has had queer beginnings. Two boys became
angry one evening at a club meeting, rushed out
of the room and slammed the door. One of the
girls said it was time they learned some manners.
Some one else said it was time they all thought
more about manners, and the course was in-A
augurated. A second generation group was in-
vited to do some dances at a reception given for

(Continued on page 361)

 

Co-Recrea’cion in the Y. M. C. A.

“ OMEN AND GIRLS in the Y.M.C.A. 3’” Such
w is the honest query of many people
today who do not realize what has taken
place over the past decade in the program and
constituency of ' the Association. Originally a
work for young men, it has broadened to include
boys and older men in practically all units. and
today many Associations have a women’s mem-
bership. National figures for 1938 show 97,632
women members of Y.M.C.A.’s and 236,557 en-
rolled in one or another form of group activity.

What is the reason for this change in practice?
It has come along as a natural development in
terms of good program planning. The Associa-
tion’s objective has been to serve men and boys,
and especially those young men who have com-
pleted their schooling and are striving to establish
a home. Getting started is the main task ahead
and in it is included finding of a position; main-
tenance of health; finding a mate; and this,
coupled with the normal desire to have a good
time, brings the program of the Association into
focus. The last two items mentioned are of such
importance in the art of living that programs in—
cluding women seemed to be the natural response
to meet this need.

Family events have been in vogue for many
years in the program of events. Many Associa-
tions carry on such activities as family play
nights, family picnics, and family swimming par-
ties. These have been so successful that it was
just another step to include programs for young
men and women, and so dancing and mixed swim-
ming parties were promoted as well as picnics and
co-ed outing events. Some Y.M.C.A.’s have di-
vided their programs so that on two days of the

week the place is open for men only, two for t

women only and two others for men and women.
In many places this is possible, as the constitu-
ency is not great enough to support two separate
organizations, one for men, the other for women.
The majority of the Associations, however, do
concern themselves primarily with a program for
men and boys. It has been a real problem to
know when to curtail the women’s work in view
of the demand on facilities by men, or to expand it.

Sometimes we adults make the mistake of under-
estimating young people. of thinking that they want
only "soap-bubble" amusements. The splendid ac-
counts we are presenting of worth-while programs
of mixed group activities which are being offered
by two Y.M.C.A.'s at opposite geographic poles of
our country are proof to the contrary. Young peo-
ple want—as well as fun and companionship—
guidance in the art of living.

By ROBERT E. LAVEAGA

Director of Recreation and Health
Boston Y.M.C.A.

Some Tested Activities

In the Huntington Avenue Branch of the Bos-
ton Y.M.C.A. there are several interesting pieces
of co-recreational work. Let us start with those
activities which have been going on for some time.

Learning to Dance. This seems to be one of the
necessary skills for the modern young person.
.\I any of these young people have grown up in
homes where dancing was on the taboo list; as a
result, at twenty or so they find that they do not
know how to dance, and are therefore shut out
from one of the main social activities. It should
be the duty of any recreation system, either pri-
vate or public, to present an opportunity for the
learning of this skill. Correctly taught in the
right atmosphere, the individual enters into a
wholesome happy experience which enrichens life.

Eleven years ago the Y.W.C.A. and the Y..\I.
C..—\. joined forces with the Union Congregation
Church in Boston to promote a dancing class. The
object was to teach dancing under the auspices of
good leadership. Mr. \Villiam O'Brien was se-
cured as instructor, and the three organizations
furnished leadership to assist in the conduct of
the class. Primarily for beginners only, the class
grew so large that it had to be divided into two
sections; starting at 7:30, an hour’s instruction
was given to beginners; at 8:30 the advanced
pupils came in and Mr. O’Brien “cut loose” with
all the modern steps; in fact it kept the class on

331

332

its toes to keep up with him. At 9:15 the two
classes combined for a “grand mixer.” Couples
were changed frequently and the group soon be-
came acquainted. “Lights out” at 11 o’clock.

There were ten lessons in each course, at $3.00
per ten lessons, or 50 cents single admission (rela-
tively few). The course is sold out for women
two weeks before the class starts, and the total
quota of 300 different people is reached on the
third or fourth night. The course is a financial
success as well as a social contribution. During
the three sessions held each winter approximately
600 different young men and women have taken
part.

011 the tenth night of each course there is a big
party. A committee is selected from the class and
this group of five young men and five women
work with the Directors of the Y.W. and the
Y.M. to discuss what kind of a party it is to be,
and decide on the games and mixers, decorations
and refreshments. On the night of the party this
committee is in charge. Some of the party themes
have been: masquerade, barn dance, sports, May,
hard times, hill billy, and once each season there
is a “Formal” when the young men have a chance
to put on a “tux,” “full dress,” or come in dark
suits with bow ties. and the girls “dress formal.”
It is interesting to hear the negative remarks when
the “formal” is announced.
Almost all of them an-
nounce they are not going,
but vith constant “taking
it up" by the leaders and
the committee the night of
the party finds the great
majority in evi-
dence and more
than happy at the
opportunity to
“dress up.” It is
one of those nights
when a fellow wears
his first “tux” and
hates to take it Off
when he goes home !

There is more to
dancing than just
whirling a girl
around the dance
Floor. There is an
opportunity to
teach the social
graces, to explain

  

is; i “‘3‘ ' .tl< i .-
i  “L -. ii 5%,“ “raj. -' 'i‘  a” l:

9, ’ M
J .-
‘ o
'4 > .
i

.._.. _.-,
a; :37 'o.’

 

  

- , “Ah-4 Am...“

“.1... .4... mu... u.

Y.M.C.A.. to be pub

.r.. .‘ .--" -

One of the winter activities of the Outing
Club which Mr. Laveaga mentions. The pro;
gram of this club will be described in de-
tail in an article by Leslie Updegraph of the
Huntington Avenue Branch of the Boston
lished in a later issue.

x
 “ g
a" i“

Courtesy Huntington Avenue Branch, Boston Y.M.C.A.

“av '2. r’ .

CO-RECREATION IN THE Y.M.C.A.

common courtesies, interrupt rude and boisterous
conduct and have those stopped thank you for
helping them out. Friendships, courtships, mar-
riage, are common results of this dancing class,
and to many this Monday Night Club is a chance
to meet fine young people of the opposite sex in
a most congenial place, and that is what the Y.\V.
CA. is. At intermission those who do not go out
for refreshments join around the piano for a fif-
teen minute sing. It is an experience which opens
the doors socially for many young people who
have been timid or reluctant to join in with'others.
With most beginners it is a matter of gaining con-
fidence; not of conquering difficult steps but of
overcoming the fear that one will do wrong and
be marked for so doing. This is one feature of
learning in a class for there are others in the same
boat. and when this is recognized the learning of
the skills is comparatively simple. It is a splen-
did activity and warrants the consideration of any
organization working with young people.

The Splash Party. This has come to be one of
the most popular winter season activities we offer,
and again it is an event which furnishes an op-
portunity for young people to get together and
meet each other in a wholesome, happy experi-
ence. Swimming is universally known and en-
joyed by the great American public, especially in
the summer time, but dur-
ing the winter season this
activity is abandoned ex-
cept at those places where
indoor pools are located.
For many years groups of
young people ranging in

,...-...—..,

      

thirty to two hun-,
dred per party have»
participated in the
Splash Party pro-
gram of the Y.M.
C.A. in Boston:
Usually there is an
athletic exhibition
or social recreation
program for these
young men and
women to obServe
or participate in
prior to the swim-
ming part of the
program, which
takes place at 9.

[mm a a!” a... ... l w, .~-c’.x‘~_._ “out”. 1- .-.‘, t .m r. 

. 1, numbers from,

l

(IO-RECREATION IN THE Y..l[.C.A.

P. M., on Saturday nights.
The “Y” is so built that the
women go to one dressing
room, which has showers ad-
joining the natatorium, and
the men to another, and there
are separate entrances to the
pool. Orie hour is given over
to the “splashing,” and the
degree depends on the num-
ber in the pool. When over
a hundred are in at one time,
it is a “big splash”; when 150
are in it it is “terrific,” and
when more than that try to wedge into the water
it is “impossible”! But somehow, whether thirty
or two hundred, everyone seems to have a grand
time.

After the swim the dancing program starts,
continuing until 11 :00 or {1:15 P. M., when all
are ready to go home. No refreshments are
served, and the cost for the evening’s fun is
thirty-five cents, including the towel, soap, pool
fee, and dance fee. Each person brings his own
suit. If you have not tried one of these events,
you have a happy and worth-while experience
before you. .

The Church Recreation Institute. Another co—reci
reation and co-educational activity is that Church
Recreation Institute, which is based upon the idea
that there are too few leaders in the churches
who are familiar with social recreation methods
and materials. To meet this need, in 1933 the
“Y” held its first institute.

The institute sessions, each two hours in length,
number six. For five years they were held on
Tuesday nights in October and November. Last
year and this year the school met in January and
February. Representative young men and women
come from more than thirty-five different churches,
and the enrollment averages about seventy-five
per institute. This makes a very workable group.
A short devotional period is held first, followed
by a short theoretical presentation on some phase
of recreation. The greater part of the evening is
spent in demonstrating and playing all kinds of
games and stunts which may be used during the
year. A mimeographed manual is prepared and
presented to each of the members of the institute
at the end of the course. This is a real help as it
presents the materials covered in the course and
Saves note taking. The cost of the course is $1.00;
this includes the manual.

THE CHALLENGE

"It matters not what activities are best
liked. Nor is it a question of who initi-
ates the program. RatherI the import-
ance is placed on the leader's philoso-
phy. Does the leader believe in youth?
Does the leader have faith in these young
magnificents to carry the burdens of a
troubled world on their shoulders? Does
the leader have a philosophy of. by. and
for co-recreation? Can
men and women meet this challenge?"-——

Charles F. Weckworth, Director. Men's
Division, Y.M.C.A..

333

After experlence with Six
different institutes there is no
doubt but that there is a need
for such training programs.
The enjoyment which the
young people have in partici—
pating in this activity faces
one with the fact that there
is a real place for well-con-
ducted social recreation pro-
grams in making life more
abundant

Outings. Many of the ath—
letic groups conduct outings
for their members and women friends, including
such activities as hiking, and picnics, and trips to
the beach.

School for Young Adults. In the Young Men’s
Division of the Association, the Association
School for Young Adults has courses of all kinds
for men and women. I These courses include:
visits with interesting people, photography, stain—
ed glass, crafts, public speaking, leadership train-
ing, home-making, home budgets, vocational sub-
jects, and many other topics. The School has
two semesters and enrolls about 500 young men
and women.

The Outing Club. Last but not least comes one
of the most popular co-recreational groups known
as the Boston “Y” Outing Club, of 300 young
men and women, which conducts between thirty
and Fifty different events each month of the year,
offering each member an enviable schedule. From
single hikes or bike rides to a nine days’ summer
vacation jaunt, one finds any kind of outdoor rec-
reation he desires. Each of the trips is made as
inexpensively as possible and yet the quality of
the total program is above any price.

Boys and girls grow up in the home together,
young people go together, and finally become
united in marriage to continue the cycle again.
Life is not complete without companionship. It
is the right of young people to have the best lead-
ership there is, for while the youth of our day
are increasingly independent, they always respond
to that high type of leadership which tends to
make them the better citizens of tomorrow.
Surely, there are women and girls at the Y.M.C.A. !

you leaders of

Providence. R. I.

“An evaluation of co-educational activities
should show that such a program ‘brings out the
individual,’ tends to do away with shyness, and
helps the individual to get along with others.”

s, k
.r

“Hm—q

1115 MEMBERS of our Young Men’s Council in
T their fall meeting were looking for an inter—

esting and appealing program they could spon-
sor. They wanted something that was new,
different, which would fill a real need in the
community, and at the same time prove bene-
ficial to those who participated. This seemed
to be a pretty big order, but young men like
to tackle something that is challenging. The
discussion wound up with one definite (le—
cision—that the program must be of a co-
educational type.

In the manner of all typical Americans, these
young men appointed a committee and vested in
this committee the power to go ahead and map

Wimmu Aliquot :.

 

 

So-Ed
Nites

at the

Tacoma

Y.M.C.A.

W h e r e sociabil-

ity and education
form a happy and

successful u n i o n

By ROYAL J. LINDAL
Boys' Work and Program Secretary

Young Men's Christian Association
Tacoma. Washington

women might learn to do those things. they
had always wanted to do for the sheer fun of
it, but previously had not been able to find
the right time or place. \Ve planned a three-
fold program: education, which would be a
series of courses; recreation; and a social hour._

Promoting the Program

In promoting such a program -we worked

out such a program. The group met with a
group at the Y.\V.C.A. and talked over the
idea, which met with a great deal of favor.
The final committee in charge of planning this
program consisted of four young men and foul
young women.

The name of our program we borrowed from
the Portland, Oregon, Y.M.C.A., because it so
well fitted the idea—~“So-Ed” for “Social Edu—
cation.” So-Ed Nite was to be held in the
spring starting on March first and running for
a period of six weeks on each Wednesday eve—
ning. The whole idea was to be an experiment
in providing a place where mature men and

334

out a very attractive mimeogr‘aphed folder:
which explained the courses and gave other
information necessary for registering for this:
course. \Ne had many posters made up and:
posted in downtown stores. The newspapers}
cooperated by running a picture of our com-,
mittee. Then we followed up those who en-
rolled for each course with postal cards tot
remind them of each session. However, the
best piece of promotion consisted of contacts

     
 

encouraging them to register for the courses.
We felt very definitely that our promotion was

SO-ED NITES AT THE TACOMA Y.1l/I.C..<l. 335

highly successful, for whereas we were hoping
for a possible group of a hundred or so, when
we finally closed registration we had 279 and
had to turn down a large number who still
wanted to register for the courses.

Content of Courses

Education hour was held from 8:00 to 9:00
P. M. with the following courses offered:
Modern Marriage, Finding Yourself, How to
Buy, Photography, and Behind the Headlines.
In each of these five courses a married couple
acted as host and hostess, introducing mem—
bers of the group to one another and present-
ing the speakers who were to appear each
evening. In the Modern Marriage course we
offered the following topics: “The Choice of
a Life Mate and the Premarital Period,” Dr.
Marvin Shaffer, professor of sociology at the
College of Puget Sound, speaker; “How Much
Money Does It Take?” Mr. C. J. Shaw, General
Secretary of the Tacoma Y.M.C.A.; “The
Biology of Sex and Sexual Adjustment in
Marriage,” by Dr. S. F. Hermann and Dr. P. C.
Kyle; “Are Marriages Made in Heaven?” Dr.
Harold Long of the Immanuel Presbyterian
Church; “Modern Marriage,” by Fred B. Mes—
sing, Director of Social Hygiene of the state
of Oregon; “Practical Problems of Marriage,”
by Dr. Marvin Shaffer. Throughout the whole
series of courses the speakers did their utmost
to be frank and realistic about the problems
that face young people who are looking for—
ward to marriage. For two hours, following
Dr. Messing’s talk, young people were gathered
around him asking him personal questions
about their personal problems.

The course entitled Finding Yourself dealt,
in the first two meetings, with the subject,
“Personality”; the speaker was Mrs. Lyle
Drushel, Dean- of Women at the College of
Puget Sound. “Philosophy of Vocational
Guidance” was discussed by Dean Phil Hauge
of the Pacific Lutheran College; “Vocational
Guidance” was the topic of V. P. Patterson,
president of Knapps Business College; Dr.
Holland F. Burr, pastor of the First Congrega—
tional Church talked on “Religion in Person-
ality.” This course had a dual purpose in that
it stressed problems of personality and adjust-
ment, and proper manners, and also touched on
the field of vocational aptitude of individuals

and the possibility through guidance of finding
satisfactory occupations for individuals.

In the How to Buy class the first topic was
“Looking \Yell Dressed,” and the speaker was
Freda Belle \Vorden, assistant buyer at the
Peoples Store. Other topics included “Stretch~
ing the Food Dollar,” by Miss J. Stevens,
Director of Home Economics at the College of
Puget Sound; “Fakes and Fads to Avoid in
Foods and Medicine,” by \Valter West, direc-
tor of the Tacoma Better Business Bureau;
“Buying Rather Than Being Sold Insurance,”
by C. C. Raymond of the National Insurance
Co.; “Renting or Buying a House,” by H. A.
Briggs of the Briggs Realty Co.; “Don’t Be a
Sucker for Buy Rackets,” by \Valter \Vest.
The purpose of this course was to give young
people an idea of values in buying and acquaint
them with many of the problems which arise
for buyers.

Behind the Headlines was the subject of a
course to keep its members up to date with
latest developments in the European situation
and in the Orient. The series of six lectures
was handled by Professor Frank T. Williston,

Ir

well-known lecturer and professor at the Col-
lege of Puget Sound.

The final course in our educational hour was

Photography. “Know Your Camera”; “Ex-
posure, Outdoor and Interior, and Film”;
“Flashlights, Floodlights and Synchronized

Flash"; “Development, Printing and Enlarg~
ing”; “Composition, Arrangement of Subject
and the Use of Filters”; and “Criticism of
Prints” were the topics treated by experts.
The sole purpose of this class was to teach the
amateur how to take a good picture.

It will be interesting to note at this time
that the 279 who were enrolled in the courses
were distributed in the following way:

Behind the Headlines . . . . . . .. 33

How to Buy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25

Photography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Finding Yourself . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Modern Marriage . . . . . . . . . . .. I34

Unclassified . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I0

In looking over these numbers one can
readily see the great interest in a course such
as Modern Marriage. Other statistics of in—
terest are the facts that the average age of the
students enrolled was twenty-four years, 113

336 SO-ED NITES AT THE TACOMA Y.M.C.A.

men were registered and 166 women. This
made for a little problem in our social functions
which needs to be remedied before another

course is given.

Then Came the Social Hour

A recreational hour followed the education
courses between 9:00 and 10:00 P. M., when
qualified leaders were in charge to give in-
struction in swimming, volleyball, badminton,
rifie shooting, contract bridge and beginners’
ballroom dancing. The game room was open
for those who wished to play billiards, pool
and ping-pong.

A social hour was held from 10:00 to 11:30.
The first affair was a mixer type of dance in
which Robert Hager, Supervisor of Tacoma
Public School Recreation, led marches and
other forms of mixer games and dances. This
type of dance proved very popular because it
made the group acquainted and gave a feeling
of esprit de corps. The second social event was
a splash party in the Y.M.C.A. pool, and the
third a talkie moving picture. The last three
socials were dances which proved the most
attractive to the young folks. At one of our
dances we used an orchestra; at the rest of
them “canned” music—phonograph records
amplified. Punch and wafers were served and
a committee was in charge to make introduc—
tions and to see that everyone took part and
had a good time.

The cost for the series was $1.50 per person.
Out of this the committee paid all expenses
and has $24.65 on hand for the session which
they are planning in the fall.

Sounding Out Opinion

At the close of the session the committee
sent out questionnaires to determine how many
would be interested in another series in the
fall and how they had liked the past program.
To the question, “What part did you like
best?” 102 said education; 50, recreation; and
16, social. “Would you be interested in So-Ed
next fall?” was a question to which 116, out
of 125, said “Yes.” “What courses would you be
interested in again?” brought the answer
Modern Marriage from 56, Photography from
17, Behind the Headlines from 33, Handicraft
from 18, and Finding Yourself from 36. A
new list suggested contained History of Re-

ligion, Etiquette, Interior Decorating, Golf,
Improved English, Gym 'Classes, Character
Study, Knitting Classes, Floral Arrangement,
Fencing, Archery, Woodshop, Glee Club,
Cooking, Public Speaking, Current Literature
and Selling. Other questions were: “Was the
recreation program satisfactory?” to which 105
said “Yes,” 4, “No”; and “Would you like the
social to be a dance each time?” with an
affirmative reply by 66, a negative by 50.
Changes and suggestions for recreation listed
were summer outings, weiner roasts, cruises,
picnics, questionnaires, spelling bees, skating
party, old time dance, international party,
dances and games of different nations. Re-
marks were made: “a very interesting pro-
gram”; “looking forward to next fall”; “super-
vision in organized play games”; “Dr. Messing ‘
for a speaker again”; “mixed dramatics class”;
“canned music better than three-piece or-

chestra”; “less dancing”; “classes only for
young married couples”; “more educational
movies”; “orchestra better than nickelodeon.”

Some Recommendations

The‘committee had a final dinner meeting
to discuss the entire So—Ed program, go over
the material in the questionnaires and make
definite recommendations and suggestions for
future So—Ed programs. The committee made
the following comments and suggestions:

I. That this committee become chairmen
with subcommittees chosen by them to take
over specific duties.

2. That the fee remain $1.50, payable at the 1
first session. 5

3. That a membership card for the course 1
be worked out, which would be carried by ;
each member and presented at classroom for
attendance.

4. That a number of hosts and hostesses be , ,
chosen for the purpose of introducing mem-
bers of So-Ed so as to create closer fellowship.

5. That the length of the course be six
weeks, the fall course starting the last Wed-
nesday in October; the Spring session, the
middle of February.

6. That these suggestions as to educational
courses be offered for the fall program: Modern
Marriage, Behind the Headlines, Finding

(Continued on page 362)

Cooperating in Co-Recreation

LITTLE OVER ten years ago the
Bronx Union Y.M.C.A.

found itself discussing a sub-
ject of great interest to its mem-
bers. Social dancing had not been
featured prominently in the program of this
branch and increasing demand for it had brought
its leaders to a consideration of how they could
best meet the needs of its members at this point.
At one of the very first meetings held to discuss
the matter,'the young men and their leaders to-
gether stated six reasons why they felt that social
dancing was an important part of an individual’s
social life and why they would like to see it in the
Y.M.C.A. program. Expressed as they noted them
in their minutes of the meeting, the reasons were
as follows: Social. dancing gives young people an
easy basis for getting together for fellowship;
social dancing is good recreation; social dancing
gives one an opportunity to meet young people of
similar tastes; social dancing in the Y.M.C.A. as-
sures good standards; social dancing gives a con-
tinuous opportunity for meeting new people;
dances of the right sort should be a normal part
of the social life of young people.
In these stated reasons lie the evidence of socio-
logical factors which made the needs and desires
‘of the young men .of the Bronx express them-
jselves in terms of social dancing. The Bronx, a
irapidly growing community, provided very few
jopportunities for its young people to meet each
jother in a normal way. Small apartment living
conditions offered little chance for entertaining in
the home. School or church ties had been severed,
for many of the families of these young people
had only recently come to the community. There
were but few guides to direct the young people to
jthe channels through which they could renew their

group contacts and enjoy normal satisfactions of
'wholesome recreation with
the opposite sex. The
churches offered some oppor—
tunities and in many cases
were trying to meet the needs
of their youth under chang-
jing conditions. But here again
'{the channels were difficult to

jhnd unless the individual had

By JEAN S. BOGAN

Recreation Director

Uptown Branch. Y.W.C.A.
New York City

It is with open and exploring minds that
such organizations as the Y.W.C.A. have
for years been seeking the most desirable
ways of serving the interests of youth. We
are fortunate in being able to present in
this. and in the article which follows. some
of the recorded experiences on.W.C.A.'s
in their search for designs for co-recrea-
tion. For other articles see October issue.

the courage and the urge to de-
liberately explore for himself.
And so, in thinking about social
dancing, the men naturally thought
about girls. In order to enjoy a
program of social dancing, there must be girls
and where would they get them? Did they know
girls? But, they said, they wanted an opportunity
to meet people, and that meant they didn’t know
too many girls to invite. And then, too, they
wanted to meet new girls. Fellowship was what
they desired—it was fun to meet girls and to get

to know them.

At this point the Y.W.C.A. came into the pic-
ture. The Bronx Union Y.M.C.A. asked the
Bronx Y.VV.C.A. if they could interest their girls
in this matter. As it happened, the Y.W.C.A. had
been thinking about the same thing in relation to
the needs and interests of its members. The young
women were saying that they wanted opportuni-
ties to meet men, to know the fun of fellowship
and comradeship with the opposite sex, and they
wanted the Y.W.C.A. to provide this for them.

The upshot of all this was that a committee of
young people was selected from the two associa-
tions, and they, with their leaders, set up as a
first project a social dancing class. It wasn’t long
before this group began to ask for dances. They
were learning social ballroom techniques and were
having a good time together, but they wanted to
use these learnings in a specific way. They
wanted to have a dance. Again the committee met
and decided to try monthly dances and a regular
dance committee was selected. This committee
planned the dances from the beginning to end—
decorations, refreshments, mixers—because this
was a new venture and they wanted everyone to
have a good time. What was most constructive,
they set up their own dance standards. This basic
structure for assuming re-
sponsibility is still being
used by the present dance
committees.

The Program—Then
and Now

This program of social
dancing initiated a co-ed rec—

337

338 COOPERATING IN CO-RECREATION

. 4v  .F

.17.  ".
. «(JV
‘ .

mi...

.6; K

reation program which has increased and broad-
ened over a period of years. After the dances
had been established and were successful, the
next thought was that there were young people
who didn’t care to dance or felt ill at ease in this
type of activity and yet would enjoy social rec-
reation. It was then that the midweek social eve-
ning became a part of the pr0gram. Table games
of all kinds, active games in the gym, some sing-
ing. or just sitting about and talking were the ac-
tivities for the first part of the evening; then
dancing for all who cared for it, and refreshments
to end the evening’s fun. These midweek pro-
grams were so popular that they were increased
from once a month to twice a month and then
later to every week.

Over a period of time there have been various
other projects started; some have been successful
and some have been lost on the way. Always
these projects have been organized because of
some expressed need of the young people them-
selves. Dramatics, theater parties, the Young
People's Conference, trips to interesting places,
and sports such as roller skating, hiking and ten—
nis, have been featured in the program and groups
formed around these interests.

The Young People’s Conference

()ne of the most interesting groups has been
the Young People’s Conference which meets every
Sunday afternoon. This group was originally or~

 

"~Ir- .u .«pv u' ‘ q—zf-umg:
(- .

a ' ganized by the Bronx

’2' - ~. 9 pi  1    Union Y.M.C.A. cooper-
" '    ating with the Bronx
'Protestant churches and
their young people. After
operating five years un-
der the Y.M.C.A., the
Young People’s Confer-
ence itself voted to be—
come one of the activities
of the steadily expand-
ing program in the co-
operative enterprise of
the Bronx branches of
the Y.M. and the Y.W.'
CA. This group at the
present time has some of'
the same characteristics
as the original group. It
is not a highly organized
group such as a club
would be, but does have
a chairman, a vice-chairman, who takes care of
extracurricular activities, so to speak, a secretary
whose main responsibility is to work with a host
and hostess committee, and a treasurer. The group
is large, rather transitory, and with many varied
interests, although the predominating motivation
has been the fellowship of the two sexes express—
ed through ‘social activity throughout the years;
The group has always been more or less of the
same cultural and educational level, and up to the
present time, when conditions of employment

have changed things, has been of the same eco-
nomic level.

When the Conference was first organized thg
method of program procedure was this: the same
discussion leader met with the group each week
after a general topic for discussion had been
planned for the winter. However, in 1931 this
was changed to a plan whereby different speakers
presented a variety of subjects. The program has
varied widely. Interesting speakers, discussions,
visits to other organizations, special moving pic-
tures or talks with slides, and devotional services
all feature in a year’s schedule. This variety aims
to catch the interest of everyone at some point,i
and inspiration, education, and recreation are allé
part of this composite program which helps tci
widen the interest and experience of the young,
people who attend.

In looking through the program content of liver
or six years, it is interesting to note the two pre-i‘

 

COOPERATING IN CO-RECREATION 339

dominating interests under which the various sub-
jects might be classified. “Christianity in Japan” ;
“Recent Experiences in Liberia”; “Present Situ-
ation in Manchuria”; “The American Indian To-
day”; “India”; “Hitler and His Program in “Ger-
many” (1933) ; “The Philippine Situation”;
“Norway”; “Behind the Headlines”; “Tech—
nocracy”—-——are titles of talks and discussions
which reveal a-consistent interest in national and
international affairs. “Young People’s Conversa-
tions”; “Putting Your Resources to Work”;
“Looking Ahead at 21”; “The Personal Factors
in Social Adjustment”; debate by Conference
members “Character Is Hereditary”; “Youth of
Today in the World of Tomorrow”; “Economic
Problems of Youth Today” are significant of the
other strong interest in subjects that deal with
themselves—with youth, marriage, boy and girl
relationships,- and personal adjustment.

How far the stimulation of these programs
really penetrated is difficult to estimate. The pre—
sentations and discussions on international affairs
have been in most cases well done, as it has been

possible. to secure some very good leadership for
the group. Although interest seems keen at the

moment, it never has been possible to transform
it into further 'study or action. Even when inter-
est in China was so acute and other grOups in the
association were raising funds there was little
response from this group. Their momentary en-

thusiasm seems to
become diluted in
“their interest in
, each other and in
la good time. In
ievaluating a pro-
l gram dealing with
themselves the
task is even more
idifficult, although
their persistent re—
, quests for these
subjects and re-
turns on interest
'questionnaires
make us hopeful
that the need is
being met.

One encourag-
ling sign of more
.‘sustained interest
'has been the de—
tCiSiOI] of the com—

 

mittees for the past few years to present program
series rather than a number of unrelated subjects.
Again an interest in themselves has been the
dominating topic. The following subjects with
their week by week topics give some picture of
the area covered:

Preparation for Marriage
“Making the Most of Friendship”
“Finding the Best in Our Dates”
“Popularity—How and \Nhy”
“Gaining Intelligent Views of Love, Courtship and
Marriage”
“Adequate Home-Making in the Days to Come”

Psychology and Effective Living

"W’hy \Ne Are As We Are” or
The development of personality traits.

“Methods of Life Adjustment” or
The good and bad of withdrawing

. of day dreaming.

“Personal Relationships” or
Friendship .. sex .. love ..-marriage.

“Social Relationships” or
The wider contacts, interests, and loyalties of life.

.. of fighting

Personality Series, Getting Along with People
“Understanding Human Nature”
"Putting Color into Our Lives”
“Can You Read Character and Faces ?”
"The Circle of Friendship”
“\Vhat Shall I Look for in Others?”

Other interesting series have been four weeks
on “The Motion Picture in the Life of Today”;
three weeks on “Helps for the Consumer”; five

 

340

weeks on “The Radio in the
Life of Today”; and a four
weeks series that we are just
finishing on “This Business
of Making a Living—or Life
for the White Collar
\Vorker.”

In spite of the earnestness
with which the committees
plan these programs, it would
be a mistake to assume that
they are the major interest in
these Sunday afternoon gatherings. Interest in
each other is the central motivation and one hour
of planned program with attention focused on a
given subject is only a small part of the period
from 3:00 P. M. to 7,200 P. M. which the group
spends together. Singing around the piano, shar—
ing a radio program, chatting over refreshments,
listening to someone who plays the piano well or
who sings, all serve to draw in the newcomer and
to produce the social atmosphere in which friend-
ships are begun and in which they can develop.

life.

Special Interest Groups

The program of the Young People’s Confer-
ence has been discussed somewhat at length be-
cause it is the largest single organized group and
has held a consistent place in the program of the
two organizations since it became a cooperative
venture. However, a much more varied program
is in operation at the present time, participated in
by some members of the Conference group but
also by others not in that group. At present.
special interest groups include dramatics, glee
clubs, an archery club, a group which meets for
church every Sunday morning, a group which
meets occasionally to visit some interesting place.
and the newest group which has been organized
to meet the need of those just growing out of
these activities—the Young Married Couples
Club. Besides the long and short time interest
groups, week ends at camp three or four times
thronghout the year, and an intensive summer
program of swimming parties, picnics, boat rides,
and roof dances are planned for all who wish to
participate.

As this varied program developed, it became
evident that a coordinating body was necessary.
A YM-YVV Council for the Bronx branches was
organized. The general structure of the Council
is still the same although its functions have ex-
panded. The Council is made tip of representa-

"Recreation has to do with the individ-
ual and his own creativeness and his own
satisfaction. but recreation has also to
do with the adjustment of that indi-
vidual to life in general. Recreation has
to do with the individual and his rela—
tion to his home. his friends. his job.
and the community in which he lives.
Recreation has to do with self-direc-
tion and with the democratic way of
Recreation has to do with the
very fullness and richness of living.'I

COOPERA TING IN CO—RECREA TION

tives from the various activi-
ties together with those who
serve as representatives for
the co-ed group on a branch
or community committee.
The Council has very clearly
defined functions that are
recognized by all groups: it
coordinates activities and acts
as a clearing house for dates;
it advises on problems relat-
ing to the co—ed program and
committees consult the Council concerning their
activities; it initiates and sponsors each new ac-
tivity until it is able to proceed independently; it
evaluates programs. This last mentioned respon-
sibility is taken seriously by the Council and a
very thorough job of evaluation is done in the

late spring when plans for the following year are

set up.

Goals Along the Way

Working closely with these activities and ever
under pressure to meet the increasing demands
for more activity, it has sometimes seemed to the
leaders in both organizations that we are entirely
preoccupied with immediate goal's. To secure
good speakers and discussion leaders; to find a
teacher for social dancing who can instill the
social graces as well as teach the techniques of the
dance ; to set up the mechanics for advanced regis-
tration and plan with a committee for a co-ed
week end in the country; to get a dramatic coach
with no money in the budget and at the same
time keep the interested young people from be-
coming discouraged, not to mention the personal
contacts which need to be made with individuals
—-—-—all take time and energy which do not show up
in terms of far-reaching goals.

In each unit of activity the aim is to organize
sufficiently to meet the needs of young people.
and it seems to me that the basic reasons for our
program are these: First, to provide opportuni-
ties and activities for young people of both sexes
to meet in a wholesome atmosphere and to learn

'to play and to work together. It is almost too

obvious to say that it is the lack of just these op-
portunities that lead to maladjustment and frus-
tration. Second, to 'give the individual a sense of
self-respect through matching skills with men and
girls of his own age and through sharing respon-

sibilities. Those who take on responsibilities be- .

(Continued on page 362)

g

 

 

' gram in the community, we

"Swing Night”

of having some type
of co—educational pro-

REALLZING the necessity

decided early in the fall to
open the building one night
a week for co-ed groups alone.
Our experiences have been very
enlightening, and after a six
months’ trial we feel that we
have a really worth-while proj-
ect, with a good many problems still ahead of us
but also a good many problems already settled.

At present we have on W ednesday nights the
following co-ed activities: roller skating, a dra-
matic club, swimming, dancing and a games room.
It would be hard to tell, on entering the building,
whether we are running a Y.M.C;A. or a Y.W.
C.A., and because of the overflow of boys we have
received much criticism, both within and without
the building. We have found that we could easily
open our doors to co-ed groups every night in the
week, but of course this is impossible with our
present leadership and facilities. .~

Some of the groups have been no problem
whatsoever. The c0-ed swimming was started
some years ago and each year has become more
popular. Medical examinations are required for
both men and women and this limits the group
somewhat as it makes the fee for swimming
higher than any of the other co-ed activities.
There has never been any problem as to organi-
zation or discipline, as over a period of years a
nucleus of young married people has made up
the group.

At the same hours we are having roller skat-
ing for co—eds. The group varies from week to
week—industrial, high school, and business peo-
ple. As there are other larger skating rinks in
town our skating is not as popular as it should be
and we get chiefly the group that wants to have
more room and fewer skaters on the floor. The
fee for skating is fifteen cents an hour.

The dramatic club is as yet a small group of in-
dustrial boys and girls. They are a self—govern-
ing body and choose their own plays and musicals.
T hey design and build their own scenery and
produce at least two plays a year which are given
here in the building. They have also responded

A Co-ed Activities Night which

created problems, satisfactions,
and a demand for expansion

.By SUZANNE D. COPE
Director, Health and Recreation

Y.W. C. A.

Trenton' New Jersey

to many requests from the
community to give short
plays. An open house was
held this fall where they
had exhibits of miniature
stage settings, lighting, cos-
tumes and other drama essentials.

Problems—Plenty of Them!

“Then we come to the dancing
and games room. I combine
these two because the boys who are not able'to
pay the fee for the dance always hang out in the

games room, and it is on account of this group

that we have received so much criticism. From a
study made of this dance grOUp we have found
that of approximately 400 different individuals
the majority are out of school and are working or
are looking for work in industrial occupations.
The age range is between sixteen and twenty-five
years. In about half the cases we found that these
young people were children of foreign-born par-
ents. With this background it is not hard to see
what a problem it has been to adjust this group
to the Y.W.CA. and to make them feel that ours
is not an act of charity but that they are an essen-
tial part of our program. And it has been just as
much of a problem to adjust the other “Y” groups
to them. \Ne have had many problems too num-
erous to mention—the breaking of furniture, a
monopoly of every free space in the building, in-
terference with other meetings, and requests for
admission from girls too young for the group.
We are just now beinning to feel that we can
“come up for air"!

A committee from the dance group was or-
ganized, and without its members' cooperation and
willingness to face the situation, we would never
have been able to continue the dances. Some of
the biggest problems have been put up to the com-
mittee, and this plan in most cases had worked
very satisfactorily. The dance committee meets
every week to discuss the immediate problems
such as repairing of furniture, repayment for
damage, questions of improper attitude and be-
havior and ways of encouraging respect for the
building. The dances have cleared some money
so the committee can vote to pay for any damage

(Continued on. page 363)
341

Co-Recreation at the University of Iowa-

By FLORENCE M. CRUICKSHANK and KATHERINE TROESTER

HE UNIVERSITY OF
I Iowa is in the heart

of a region which
lives from the yield of
the rich earth. The

campus spreads over

Iowa River, Heavy
shade trees frame im-
posing views of the Old
Capitol on the east bank:
the hospital tower on
the west. Iowa City
surrounds the campus
with the familiar milieu
of the small town which
can quickly be left be—
hind for open country
of rolling woodlands
and fertile fields.

Iowa’s student body
reflects a culture indige-
nous to the rich earth.
Although modified to
some extent by eastern,
southern, far western
and foreign students,
the great bulk of the University are Iowa boys
and girls who hold to such early American tradi-
tions as respect for hard work, honest living, and
higher education. More than half of them work
as well as study to realize their dream of en—
riched living through a college education. But,
like all young folk, they need play as well as work.
College social life and campus politics absorb the
energies of a few. The others have found many
forms of recreation, some planned by themselves.
some organized by the faculty.

And what are these forms of recreation? Let
us take some of the more organized activities. The
first Saturday night of Freshman Week in the
fall, and the first Saturday night of the Summer
Session everyone on campus is invited to an All-
University Play Night. These play nights are
held for six consecutive Saturday nights during

342

 

the Summer Session
and at frequent inter-
vals during the aca—
demic year. Here an
average of better than
two hundred students a
night forget term pa—
pers, library assign-
ments, mid—terms,
theses, to relax and re-
vive in a bit of whole-
some frolicking.

Come Visit Our
Play Night!

Suppose you accom-
pany a group of us in
attendance at a sum-
mer play night so you
may understand why it
attracts so many. The
night is warm and clear
so we decide to go first
to the women’s field.
At the entrance we are
greeted by hosts and
hostesses, members of
the co-recreation
class distinguished by colorful sashes, who point
out the locations of various activities and inform
us that an archery demonstration will take place
later in the evening.

With a gay “See you later,” some of our crowd
rush ofiC to join a mixed group playing a snappy
game of volleyball. Someone else confesses a
private yen to “bat that overgrown ball around”
in a game of cageball. Two others leave the group
to play off a tetherball tie left over from the last
play night. They also plan to obtain specifications
for the equipment from the leader in order to
supply the school playground back home with a
new activity.

The rest of our group decide in favor of arch*
cry, so we head for the target range on the west
side of the field. We pass the softball diamond
just in time to see the third run come in, tying up-

Icrowd immediately.

CO-RECREATION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF ION/A 343

the score in the married versus single couples'
feud.

As we check out our archery equipment, the
beginning and advanced ranges are designated,
and anyone who desires assistance is offered in-
struction by the leaders. Everyone takes ad-
vantage of the opportunity to shoot until time for
the archery demonstration. While checking in
equipment, someone remarks he hates to wait
until next play night to get a chance to shoot. A
girl from the department informs him at what
hours the range is open during the week. and an—
other potential Robin Hood vows to be on hand
for practice.

The demonstrators are men and women arch-
ers with tournament experience, whose display of
form and technique, plus superb marksmanship,
present the sport at its best. The demonstration
concludes the outdoor program, and we adjourn
to the women’s gymnasium for the indoor play
night activities.

Again we are assisted by guides who direct us
to the various activities. On the first floor one
hears the hollow “pop-pop" rhythm echoing from
the ping-pong room. Kick-it, devil-in—the—deep,
box hockey, baseball darts, and numerous games
of a less strenuous na-
ture attract many peo-
ple to the game room.
We round a corner and
discover one of the cor-
ridors has been con-
verted into a bowling
alley. Strikes and spares
appear on the enlarged
blackboard score sheet.
As we pass the small
gymnasium we notice
numerous couples en-
joying social dancing.
Upstairs, the Mirror
Room is the setting for
paddle tennis, aerial
darts, ring tennis, bad—
minton, and shuffle—
board, alternated dur-
ing the evening.

Hilarious sounds from
the big gymnasium re-
ve'a‘l a social mixer
under way. We join the

There is an amazing

 

amount of wholesale dropping of scholarly dig-
nity as the roomful of students romp through the
“Paw-paw Patch" and “Shoo—fly.” Now, every-
body gets a chance to catch his breath while mem-
bers of the Co-Recreation class demonstrate some
relatively easy sets of square dancing to be learn-
ed presently by the entire group. “Callers” carry

«on in quite a professional fashion, and even the

most sophisticated individuals find themselves
cavorting through the sets, gaily swinging their
partners with many an appreciative chuckle.

It is time to go, and another play night is
tucked away. What was so much fun about it?
\\’e have been thoroughly relaxed throughout an
evening of wholesome play with newly discovered
comrades in the friendly setting typical of play
itigglit.

These evenings, when the facilities of the De—
partment of Physical Education are made avail-
able to the campus population, are sponsored at
different times by different groups. Before reg-
istration in the fall the Religious Activities Com-
mittee assembles young student leaders from
lowa high schools for conferences. Play Day and
Play Night contribute vitally to their program.
The Orientation \Veek Committee feels the im—
portance of recreation
and asks for a Play
Night to be organized
as part of the introduc-
tion to campus life.
The Women’s Athletic
Association sponsors
several during the
school year. The pro-
gram of activities is
varied according to the
season, thus allowing
for an emphasis on out-
door activities in the
fall and spring, while
the winter play nights
heretofore were plan—
nod for indoors. How-
ever, a lagoon for ice
skating, a shelter house,
and a newly installed
lighting system for the
lagoon (the gift of one
of our graduating
classes) should greatly
increase the opportun-
ity for outdoor activi-

344 CO-RECREATION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF IOIVA

ties during the colder months.

The German Club has arrang-
ed evenings of folk dancing,
charging only a nominal admis-
sion fee to cover the cost of re-
freshments. The Campus Camera
Club, with its units for beginning, advanced, and
movie enthusiasts, offers instruction and incentive
with its monthly programs, its field trips, its dis-
play of the “picture of the month” hung in the
lobby of the Iowa Union for a pleasant and

creative hobby.

The Women’s Athletic Association

A very much alive Women’s Athletic Associa-
tion reaches a large proportion of the student
body through the various clubs of which it is
comprised, and through the activities which it
sponsors. Officers and governing board are
chosen from the student leaders; there is a faculty
sponsor for this group. Besides the usual varied
program of sports for girls, there are many pro-
grams planned which furnish splendid oppor-
tunity for men and women to enjoy companion-
ship with one another. Outing Club is planning
for coeducational activities in the spring. The
intramural volleyball season is climaxed with a
mixed volleyball tournament. Badminton and
archery clubs are active with tournaments and
practice periods for men and women. The swim-
ming organizations, Seals for women and D01-
phins for men, have had several happy get-to-
gethers.

All youth loves to dance. Those who have not
had an opportunity to learn social dancing before
entering college are given that opportunity through
a series of ten lessons offered three times during
the year by the Women’s Athletic Association.
There are two sections, beginning and intermedi-
ate, taught by expert student teachers, with stu-
dent accompaniment. Here one may learn ball-
room etiquette and a sufficient number of dance
patterns to enjoy the University dances. These
classes are always filled to capacity.

The Dry Night Club

Out of an attempt at solving a need for a place
for University students to dance, and to f raternize
around a refreshments table, came a unique con-
tribution to the co-recreation activities on the
campus of the University of Iowa in the opening
of “The Silver Shadow,” in 1936, rather widely
known now as “the dry night club.” After much
deliberation as to the best possible space to be

"Nor do I call pleasures idle-
ness. or time lost provided they
are the pleasures of a rational
being."-—--From Letters, Lord
Chesterfield. 30 October. I747.

used, it was decided to use the
cafeteria in the Iowa Union, with
a dance floor in the center, thus
easily combining dining service
With dancing. The dance Hoor
will accommodate approximately
one hundred couples.

The room has been decorated with silver cur-
tains and colored lights to give an atmosphere of
a night club. A large silver curtain conceals the
serving counter of the cafeteria. Confetti and
streamers help to create a party atmosphere. Some
parties are formal, others informal.

A student band and student talent for the floor
shows makes the income from students to students
through this project amount to approximately
$3,000 a year. Each fall a notice is published in
the school paper asking for talent for the floor
shows. Try-outs are held before a committee of
the Union staff members and an effort is made to
schedule any and all dance, musical and novelty
numbers that are at all usable. An average of
four acts per night for the floor show are pre-
sented. The Silver Shadow is open ten or more
Saturday nights during the winter months, the
number‘ depending upon the whole University
schedule of events and Upon how soon the winter
sets in and the spring opens up. ‘

Leadership Training Opportunities

Well-managed and smoothly run social events
take careful and detailed planning. Though no
professional course in this field is offered by the
University of Iowa, some courses in the curricu-
lum of the Department of Physical Education are
given with a definite view to training people for
recreation leadership. Courses for the undergradu-
ate in “Recreational Sports” and “Methods of
Recreation Leadership” give an introduction to
this growing field. Supervised play during the
recess hOUrs in the city and the University experi-
mental schools, and work on the community play—
grounds furnish the laboratory for this study.
The community recreation center with its paid
and volunteer workers also offer opportunity for
practice. “Trends in Recreation,” “Folk Danc-
ing,” “American Rhythms,” “Program in Co-
Recreation,” all add to the rounded training of
those interested in leadership in this field. _.

The University administration gives full co-
operation to the program of recreation. Steps are
being taken to coordinate recreation facilities on
the campus. Recreation is recognized as a vital

need in higher education.

Where Cross the Crowded Ways

Ew YORK can be such
N a lonesome place.
All big cities seem
so very impersonal — so
ruthless in their brusque
way of brushing aside in-
dividuals. Do you remember
your first weeks and months
of trying to keep pace with the
rather terrifying speed that
seemed so natural to everyone
else—that insatiable urge to be
incessantly moving faster—faster? Do you re-
member thinking quite wistfully about the picnics
and outings in the summer and the socials and get
togethers in the winter that the “gang back home”
must be having? And then did you wonder where,
in all New York’s swarming millions, you could
find kindred souls to spend leisure time in doing
the things that used to be such fun with the “old
gang?”

If you were very lucky, as we were, you dis-
covered the Thursday Evening Group of the
Marble Collegiate Church “where old-fashioned
friendliness still prevails.” That is the motto of
the church itself, and it was handed over to a
small group of young people who called them-
selves the “Thursday Evening Group.” This
nucleus of approximately twelve young men and
women, inspired by the leadership ’of Miss Mercé
E. Boyer, Director of Church Activities, has
grown to an attendance of between 250 to 300 at
weekly meetings within the miraculously short
space of eighteen months. This has resulted with-
out coercion of any kind—not even that of attend»
ance records, for there are no officers. Each in-
dividual comes with the knowledge that the eve-
ning pays big personal dividends, the amount de—
pending entirely upon the person’s initial contri-
bution. A person comes once to see what it’s all
about, finds out, and comes next time with a
friend. It’s such a wonderful thing to find such
a group right in the heart of New York City that
enthusiasm proves contagious.

“Nickels and dimes pay for good times’ reads
the sign on the little green box that sits on the
table at the entrance door—and your nickel or
dimes goes in voluntarily and at your own discre-
tion, according to your budget. No compulsion is

,

Even in an impersonal, lonesome
big city like New York, strangers
can find a place uwhere old-fash-
ioned friendliness still prevails.’

By MELBA M. MUMFORD
and
CONSTANCE W. CARTMELL

needed, for it is the aim of
the group to become com-
pletely self-supporting, and
each member takes pride
in his contribution.
And now won’t you join
us at a typical evening meeting
of the group?

I

A Typical Program

Promptly at eight o’clock the
early arrivals wander down to
the front seats of Burrell Memorial Hall to join
in the community singing of good old folk songs
under the guidance of a volunteer song leader. At
eight-thirty, when the late arrivals have fllled all
the seats, the speaker of the evening is introduced
by a member of the group. These evening speak-
ers represent just about the acme of perfection in
practically every field—and each one is glad to
volunteer his services to such a group of young
people, even though it may perhaps mean crowd- _
ing an already heavy schedule. It is a rare treat
to hear these speakers, sought after by thousands,
who deem it a privilege to speak to a “representa—
tive grOUp of young Americans,” as one of them
appropriately phrased it. For the members com-
prise every type of young man and woman be-
tween the ages of eighteen and thirty, coming
from almost every section of the country, doing
every type of work (some are unemployed at
present), some with degrees and others without.
but all uniting with a mutual purpose. The ad-
dresses are extremely varied in their subject
matter. We have heard from an eXpert in news
photography, an aviatrix, a well-known theatri-
cal producer, an eminent radio announcer. And
there have been talks on advertising and current
events, astrology and the development of cartoons.
Almost every field is included in order to encom-
pass the diversified interests of some 250 people.
At the close of each talk a period is set aside
for informal questioning. All the speakers are
extremely helpful in assisting at this particular
period.

At nine-thirty the group breaks up into smaller
units which include a wide field of hobby interests.
And who hasn’t a hobby? Or who wouldn’t ac-
quire a new one? Or is there anyone who doesn’t

345

346 WHERE CROSS THE CROWDED WAYS

prefer doing one thing just a bit better than any
other one thing? The Thursday Evening Group
is no different. Hobbies play a very vital part in
attaining the highest standards of fun, fellowship

and creative ability.

Do you like to sing? There is the choral group
designed for lovers of music who want to know
just a little more about it. Indeed they were so
successful last year that towards the end of the
season they presented a beautiful concert arranged
by their leader. a young volunteer who is a teacher
of music in the public schools. To it were invited

the entire church congregation.

Perhaps you would prefer studying the correct
way to address an audience. In the Public Speak-
ing class you may have instruction in poise, enun—
ciation, voice, general control, with stress laid on
actual participation in sample speeches. Here also
we are fortunate in having as a volunteer a teacher
of Public Speaking who came once as a visitor

to the Thursday Evening Group and was so in-

trigued by it that she offered her services.

To a large number of people there is strong
appeal in the romance of drama—that momentary
lapse from realism into the fascinating land of
“make believe.” But one soon realizes the import—
ance of the vast number of little details which go
to making up the perfect performance. Special
attention is given to the intricate study of stage
technique, costume, make-up, and lighting effects.
At the same time four or five plays are being pre-
pared to be used as concrete examples. These de-
cidedly add to the enjoyment of the whole Thurs-
Evening Group when they are presented during
an evening. Periodical theater parties are ar-
ranged to see how Broadway productions vary
from our own. The able supervision of the dra-
matic coach of a well-known Long Island College
makes this group really worth while.

In a world so full of activity, current events
cannot help but be a topic of general conversation.
One of our groups listens to a radio program,
Town Hall of the Air, then conducts a discussion
period based on some particular country or on a
current problem at home or abroad inspired by the
radio program.

\Ve can’t all travel, but we all like to learn about
places that attract tourists from near and far, so
there is a Travel group. W e have visioned bull
lights in Spain, journeyed to Bermuda by plane,
and seen America by Greyhound bus. Don’t mis-
understand! We haven’t actually traveled our-

selves, but we have had speakers and some ex-
cellent travel films. Here a Y.M.C.A. secretary I
lends a helping hand.

No royal road exists to achieving facility with
words, but the Writing group is striving to learn l
how to write interesting stories, articles and let-
ters. An occasional periodical is prepared under
the leadership of the editor of a prominent youth
magazine and an editor in a publishing concern.
Valuable experience is gained from writing—and
who knows where it may lead? Anyway, it’s lots
of fun!

Interior Decorating and Arts and Crafts go
hand in hand. Both have their supporters—ardent
Tyros. Baskets, rugs and other handicraft arti-
cles are prepared with an occasional illustrated
slide lecture. Here again, a young person skilled
in handiwork is the guiding light.

Photography and Stamp Collecting are perhaps
two of the most practiced hobbies of all, so they
never lack enthusiasts. Many stamp books have
been proudly displayed, and an expert amateur
photographer explains the methods of developing
and printing films. The latter has his own ma-
terials and equipment which he makes available
for actual practical demonstration. It is fascinat—
ing even for those not actively engaged in pho-
tography to watch the various stages of treat-
ment to which a roll of film is subjected. Many
come in to watch this group at work.

There is no rule forcing a member to remain
in any one group. Every attempt is made, how—
ever, to make each hobby so interesting that those
who make one visit will want to return again and
again. A person may change his group freely
and thus find his chosen interest. Then, of course,
there are always those who prefer the spirit of

a partner !

, Ten-thirty usually terminates the hobby groups
—so back to the general conclave to enjoy a skit
by the dramatic club, stunts by various partici?
pants, organized play periods and games of all
kinds suitable to the occasion under the leader‘
ship of a volunteer recreation leader. Of course
no evening is complete without refreshments, SO
the boys trudge nianfully up to the tables and
volunteer their services as hosts—while the girls
gracefully accept their steaming cups of coffee
and doughnuts or lemonade and cookies. (Frankly,
the girls help, too, but the other makes a nice
picture, doesn’t it? Food for thought!)

WHERE CROSS THE CROWDED WAYS 347

All too soon a complete
evening has passed and we
find ourselves standing in
a huge circ1e singing
“Goodnight, Ladies” or
“Home, Sweet Home” with
more than a tinge of re-
luctance. It always takes
more than a gentle hint to
remind everyone that c115—
todians have homes, too!

Many Other Events Planned

But just Thursdays aren’t enough. So many of
.the boys and girls get together during the week
for roller skating, swimming, bowling, dancing at
Y.M.C.A.’s or a near-by girls’ residence, and vari—
ous other events. Oceasionally on Sunday morn-
ings (Oh, very early—seven A. M.) a group meets
for breakfast and a bicycle ride through Central
Park. Some of them go on to church to hear one
of those inspiring sermons by Dr. Norman Vin-
cent Peale, Pastor of the Marble Collegiate
Church. As a matter of fact, a group frequently
meets on a Sunday for dinner after church, since
so many eat “out,” anyway.  grand time is then
had at the chosen banquet table and a vote is taken
on the program for the afternoon—a bus ride, a
long walk or a visit to some place of interest.

Of course, during the summer, vacations inter-
fere with regular indoor programs, so they are
replaced by frequent outings, picnics and swim-
ming parties. This past summer large groups went
hiking through the Palisades and back over the
George Washington Bridge by moonlight; went
on a boat trip to Rye Beach; met for a dancing
party on the Mall in Central Park (so successful
that it was repeated) ; and took frequent bicycle
trips in between times. In this way contact is
kept by the whole group until the fall program is
resumed. '

Just to deviate from the usual prOgram, special
evenings are planned throughout the year. Per—
haps it might be well to mention in detail a few
of those Thursdays enjoyed last year.

Common interests—such as a common home
state or community—do help in bringing about
real and lasting friendships. Casual meetings quite
frequently result in renewed friendships, a dis-
covery of mutual friends, and the whereabouts of
familiar hunts. Realizing that members of the
Thursday Evening Group came from all parts of
the United States, a recreation program was

The question may arise in the minds of some
of our readers as to how all these various
social affairs are managed. It should be
explained that committees are selected from
among the young people to help with special
From a questionnaire
filled out early in the year by members of
the group. leaders know on whom they may
call to print or paint signs and posters.
make decorations. play the piano. assist in
the leading of games. or help in other ways.

recreation programs.

planned one evening to
give young men and
women an opportunity to
discover who came from
their own state and locality.

The names of all states
were printed on White pa-
per pennants~ suspended
around the walls of the
recreation hall. In some
instances only one state
appeared on the pennant, while on others there
were more, depending upon their proximity to
New York City and the probable number of
young people coming from each. Since the mem—
bership from New York State was large, it was
divided into small groups, including those from
each of the five boroughs of New York City. It
was under these pennants that members gathered
for the recreation period, far westerners, midwes-
terners, New Englanders and southerners all mak-
ing sure that they were correctly identified with
their state banners. Where the numbers were
small, pe0ple from sister states were brought to-
gether. Provision was also made for those whose
homes were in other countries. After all had as-
sembled there was a period for visiting.

Next, bundles of old newspapers and packages
of pins were handed to each group, with instruc-
tions that within a limited time each was to pre-
pare costumes depicting the industries, the life,
or traditions of its state. The results were amaz-
ing! A bundle of wheat came from Nebraska ;. a
Sioux Indian resulted from the combined efforts
of former residents of North Dakota, South Da-
kota, and Minnesota; a sunflower blossomed in

‘ Kansas; John Bull dropped in from Canada. A

parade of all the costumed contestants followed,
many wearing state mottoes and names across
their chests. Winners were selected and crowned
with a fitting ceremony. The winner was a paper
donkey frame, ears and all, nicely concealing two
young men from upper New York State. This
turned out to be a very interesting and successful
get-acquainted party.

In planning the recreation program, careful
consideration is always given to games and activi—
ties which will break the ice of strangeness and
embarrassment which some people always feel.

Here is a program which because of its utter
informality was enjoyed by all. It turned out to
be a real mixer.

348 IVHERE CROSS THE CROWDED WAYS

An Indoor Hunt
The articles or names listed below are on, or
refer to, some person in the room. No more than
one to a person. Locate them. Secure full name
of bearer and fill in blank space. CAUTION: Do
not let the WORLD hear about your discovery.
Keep it a SECRET.

Article Name
1. Frying Pan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

. A Real Flower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Norwegian Coin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Elgin Watch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2'. . . .

Red Hair Ribbon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

. Gold Safety Pin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Landon-Knox Pin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Engagment Ring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
(on girl’s little finger) i

9. N.B.C. Broadcast Ticket . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
10. Theta Chi Fraternity Ring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
11. Alice (Last Name?) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
12. Omaha and Council Bluffs

Street Railway Token . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
13. Silver Button . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
14. White Feather . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

There were, in all, thirty-six different articles
and names listed. Good use was made of the small
novelties often hidden in wedding and holiday
cakes. These were purchased at a local live and
ten cent store.

PoNosnesvow

A Rural Play Day

One of the most successful parties was a
“Rural Play Day.”

We're going rural Thursday next,

So come dressed for the farm,

Wear straw hats, bonnets, aprons, too,
You’ll cause no great alarm.

Bandannas for the men you’ll need,

And gingham frocks for Susie—

With games and stunts and songs and food,
Now what could be more Hoozie?

This was the advance notice that enticed a large
crowd in the big city back to the country! There
had been no opportunity during the week to dec—
orate the auditorium, so as
each member arrived he vol-
unteered his services, and
in no time at all balloons
and colored pennants cov-
ered the walls. Everyone
came in old clothes, and
straw hats and red bandan-
nas sold at the door turned
the boys into regular farm-
crs, while the girls became
coy farmerettes with their

"To insure the success of any programI one
must make sure that the content is planned
by as well as for those taking part in it.
Avoid superimposing on younger people an
adult conception of what to do. Certain
questions should be raised. such as: Will
this program meet the needs of those pres-
ent? Will there be a real opportunity for
sociability and friendship because of the
program? Do we have adequate leadership
to make the content worth while?"——From
"Recreation in Church and Community.''

gaily colored little poke bonnets which had been
bought in quantity and sold at cost. The room
had four big road signs which divided it into four
country towns—hand soon friendly rivalry was
equally distributed among the “citizens” of Rose-
dale, Sleepy Hollow, Hicksville and Oskaloosa. A
leader was chosen in each town who in turn se—
lected cheerleaders, teams, and individuals to take
part in competitive games and contests, points be—
ing given to each winner.

From that time on it was each town for itself,
and hilarity reigned supreme! The suitcase race
was “too funny for words,” with a skirt failing to
stretch around an excessively large waist and
galoshes that just wouldn’t stay on adding to the
merriment. A “milking contest” in which the
girls fed the boys milk from babies’ bottles, and
a hog calling event that sounded like a cross be-
tween would be “Tarzans” and “cowboys from
Brooklyn,” sent everyone into convulsions. The
finishing touch came when the girls competed in
a husband calling contest. And woe be unto the
husband who failed to answer in that game! When
Hicksville finally captured the winning title every-
one joined forces for singing games and the Vir-
ginia Reel. In keeping with the prevailing picnic
atmosphere, lemonade, doughnuts in pails and
bushel baskets of 'apples were served to the farm-
ers and farmerettes seated in groups on the floor.
Everyone agreed after that evening that there cer-
tainly was nothing in the city to compare with get-
ting back to that old country atmosphere!

The events in the rural play day program fol—
low. The number of contestants from each town
is indicated for each event.

Market Day Relay. (Five women.) At the sig-
nal to start, the first player on each team picks up
from the floor in front of her a number of empty
cartons of various sizes. (There are always a few
more boxes than she can conveniently carry.) The
contestant hurries as quickly as pOSsible to a desig~

nated spot, carrying with
her all of the boxes and re-
turns to the starting line.
The cartons are dropped in
front of the second player
and the performance is re-
peated. If any of the boxes
fall during the journey the
player carrying them must
stop to pick them up before

continuing.

I
l

I
i
I

lVHERE CROSS THE CROWDED I/VAYS 349

 

Farmyard Conversation. (One man or woman.)
Contestants one at a time imitate the sounds of
familiar farm animals—mow, calf, sheep, chicken,
duck, turkey, dog, cat and others. Judges decide
who is the best imitator.

A Neighborly Fight. (Four men.) Give each con-
testant a swatter made of rolled newspaper and an
inflated balloon tied at the center of a piece of
string about three feet long. The string is tied
around each player’s waist, with the balloon at
the back. Contestants stand in circle formation
some distance apart. At a given signal, each
player moves about and tries to swat and break
each other’s balloon, at the same time protecting
his own. The player who comes through at the
end with an inflated balloon is the winner.

Cow Milking Contest. (One man and one
woman.) Give to each male contestant a nursery
or soda bottle filled with milk—plus nipple. The
first to drain his bottle of all the milk after a
starting signal is crowned “Champion Cow
Milker.” The nurses hold the bottles while the
babies drink. Warning: Some babies often bite
the nipples to make the holes larger!

IOO-Yard Dash. (One man and one woman.)
Provide each couple with a pair of scissors and
strips of rolled paper ribbon or adding machine
paper approximately 2 or 2%, inches in width, and
of the same length. Give the roll of paper to the
man on each team, and the scissors to his partner.
\Vhile the girl holds the free end of the paper, the
man unrolls it by walking slowly backwards. The
paper is then held taut, and the man is instructed
to stand in the same position until the contest is

‘

Courtesy Recreation Board, Lincoln, Nebraska.

over. At a given signal the woman moves slowly
forward cutting the piece of paper into two strips.
The team that is first to separate the paper with-
out cutting through the sides wins the race.

Hailstorm. (Three men and three women.) Re-
lay formation. Give to the first player of each
team an inflated balloon. On the word “Go,” the
player bats the balloon to a goal line and returns

to the starting point. This is repeated by other

players of his team.

Farm Quiz. Questions asked the assembled audi-
ence are listed below. N o scoring is made.

Questions Answers

\Vhat vegetable is found in the laundry? . . . . . . . .Mangel

What vegetable is the plumber’s delight? . . . . . . . . ..Leek

What vegetable does a policeman walk on? . . . . . . . ..Beet
\Vhat vegetable do you find on bargain day

at Macy’s? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Squash

\Vhat vegetable has been through fire? . . . . . . . . . . .Chard

\Nhat vegetable gives an invitation? . . . . . . . . . . . . .Lettuce

What herb is most comforting? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Balm

What herb is most dreaded by women? . . . . . . . . . .Thyme

\Vhat herb is full of regret? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Rue

\Vhat herb is most learned?‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sage

\Vhat herb is a money maker? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mint

\Vhat herb is found in a stable? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Sorrel

Dust Storm. (One man.) Contestants take their
places behind a starting line. Each has a small
downy feather. When a signal is given, the feather
is dropped from high in the air, hands are clasped
behind backs and the players begin to blow their
feathers toward a finish line. The distance is not
more than twenty-five feet. Anyone touching the
feather with his hands after the race has started
is disqualified.

350

Husband Calling Contest. (One woman.) Each
woman contestant is given thirty seconds to call
her husband to dinner. Range, volume, tone and
effectiveness should be taken into consideration in

selecting the women.

Suitcase Relay. (Two men and two women.)
Players of each team line up in relay formation,
one behind the other. The first person in line is
handed an old suitcase containing a number of
articles of women’s wearing apparel—~——such as a
skirt, coat, hat, galoshes. On command, the first
person on each team picks up the suitcase and
runs to a goal line. There he opens it, puts on the
clothing, picks up the suitcase again and returns
to the starting line. The second player assists the
first in removing the clothing and places it back
in the suitcase. Then he picks up the suitcase and

repeats the performance.

Hog Calling Contest. (One man.) Each con-
testant is given thirty seconds to call his hogs.
Judges pick as winner the one they feel has the
most effective call.

Hobby Night

There is always one topic of conversation that
anyone can go into raptures over and that is his
own particular hobby! So it was decided to set
aside one whole evening for people who wanted
to show and discuss their hobbies. It worked like
magic. Each contribution was labeled with the
owner’s name and all were placed around the
room for everyone to examine and admire. It
was a representative collection, ranging anywhere
from a piece of embroidery or a homemade pair
of boots to a photographer’s album, with, of
course, innumerable paintings, creative writing
and stamp albums to make the show complete. It
was remarkable to see the results of so many lei-
sure hours; and it seemed indicative that young
people of today have by no means given up crea-
tive work as a hobby.

One of the most unique creations was later used
as an evening’s entertainment. A complete set of
marionettes was made to carry out an amusing
version of the old legend of Bluebeard. Several
members of the dramatic group composed the
cast, and many evenings of rehearsals were given
over to the learning of lines and the working of
the stringed dolls. The little stage had quite a
professional touch and all the scenery and light-
ing effects were done by members of the group.
Blur-beard captured the hearts of everyone, and it

WHERE CROSS THE CROWDED l/VAYS

was invaluable experience, besides being loads of
fun for those members involved in the under-

taking.

Talent Night

Did you ever find a group of young people that
didn’t have plenty of talent hidden away— just
needing a little bringing out? So a Talent Night
was inaugurated to see what would happen. The
results surpassed even the most hopeful. The
Stage Committee worked hard and successfully at
converting the whole stage into a country store.
Various food companies donated boxes and pack-
ages of labeled empty cartons which kept the audi-
ence thinking they were real until the very end.
Huge placards were posted about, a storekeeper
was installed, and even a cat was secured to lend
atmosphere! A “talent scout” from Hollywood
interviewed the local citizens from Junction Cen-
ter and found plenty of singers, actors, imper-
sonators, musicians and dancers to take back with
him. It takes an evening of this kind to see what

some people really can do.

“All Aboard l”

\V'hat could be more appropriate for a final
june meeting than an imaginary cruise, train or
auto trip to near or distant places. particularly
since members were already making plans or
dreaming of such summer excursions? In keep-
ing with this vacation day party theme, interesting
and colorful maps and posters, which railroad,
bus and steamship lines had been most generous
in contributing, were hung around the recreation
room. Hallways leading to it were transformed
into cruisers’ decks. Ropes bearing three-cornered
cambric banners, port andostarboard lights, and
cardboard life preservers, had been loaned to the
decorating committee by travel agencies. A few
descending steps which served as a gangplank, a
balcony railing which became the deck rail, and a
polished deck floor helped in creating a “party”
state of mind.

Although no one was asked to come in nautical
attire, white sailor caps were sold at the door to
those who wanted to add an appropriate touch to
their costumes. The plan could go still further
in providing for the guests crepe paper in shades
of red, white and blue, scissors and pins and card-
board patterns to aid in making middy ties and
collars.

(Continued on page 363)

Some Sports That Succeed with Mixed Groups

There may be some readers—not such old ones, either—who will gasp
faintly over matter-of-fact accounts of men and women playing t_o-
gether on volleyball and basketball teams. As for co-recreational bad-
minton and roller skating, these sports are perhaps not so startling
until we consider that the history of both is within the recollection of
people fifty years old. Winter sports alone, of those mentioned in the
following articles, were enjoyed to some extent by grandmother and
her beaux. Times change! Old taboos vanish! Fortunate indeed are
those of the present generation who enjoy the new freedoms!

Roller Skating on Tennis Courts

By GEORGE A. FAIRI-IEAD

Superintendent of Recreation
Danville. Illinois

ERIIAPS one of the most difficult types of ac-
P tivity to promote in any recreation program

is one in which boys and girls can enjoy
themselves together as equals with both social and
physical benefit. Dancing and swimming are two
such activities, but aside from these we find the
number limited. Not often do we find girls who
are so highly accomplished that they stimulate
“boy-girl” companionship in the various sports
such as golf, tennis, horseshoes, and volleyball.

There is one activity, however, which lends
itself very readily to promoting this boy-girl rela-
tionship. It is the popular, well-known sport of
roller skating.

In Danville we are fortunate enough to have
double cement tennis courts with lights for night
playing. It is true they were used practically every
night during the summer for tennis, but at the
most they would serve only thirty-two people per
evening. It is also true that very little tennis is
played in the evenings after Labor Day. Early
fall is the ideal time for an active outdoor eve-
ning function. There seems to be a lull after the
busy sUmmer program, ust before the community
centers attract young people to the indoors.

There might be the danger of injuring the
courts as an argument against using them for
skating. After consideration and consultation with
the Park Commissioner, it was decided to try it
out to see if a splendid facility could stand double
duty and not be harmed.

An article was put in the local paper notifying
the public of our plan, giving the time and place,
and inviting all persons to enjoy the use of the
rink. It was further decided in order to_ make it
more attractive, that music should be furnished.
Previous experience had proved that musical in-
struments were affected by the dew, so we could
not use our orchestra. But we have sound equip-
ment in our department and a portable victrola,
Which were brought out for the occasion. The
records in our department were somewhat out-of-
date and we were soon reminded of the fact by
our participants. This complaint was overcome by
using the radio in our sound operator’s car. This
was turned on and amplified through our sound
system, allowing the skaters to continue to the
“swing and sway” music of outstanding orchestras
from all over the country.

Did we have any skaters? From the first even-
ing the enterprise was a success. All the old
skates in the city were brought out and if they
needed repairs or oil our sound operator was
called on for assistance, which he gave to the de-
light-of many a girl and boy. Every evening new
skates and skaters could be seen on the rink. The
facility was open two nights per week from 7 to
t) P. M. for a period of eight weeks. Our attend-
ance record reveals that we served 3,380 boys,
girls, and young adults. This does not include the
hundreds of spectators who stopped their cars and
came over to watch and listen to the music.

After our first successful evening it was de-
cided to arrange a program for each of the next
sessions. These programs took the form of such
events as girls skating alone, boys skating alone,
partner skating, races for all groups and fancy
skating. On the last evening a championship pro—
gram was conducted for all age groups.

351

352 SOME SPORTS THAT SUCCEED LVITH MIXED GROUPS

Our total light bill was $9.24 for the eight
weeks, or an approximate cost of 55.0027 per par-
ticipant. The only harm tonthe courts was the
wearng off of the painted lines which are always
painted in the spring. It is our plan to open two
such rinks in the early spring and continue until
the tennis players again take over the courts and
put them to the use for which they were built.

They Want to Play Badminton
By PETER J. MAYERS, M.A.

Superintendent of Recreation

New RochelleI New York

BOUT'TIIREE YEARS ago recreation was recog-
A nized as a city department and we began to
build our program. The sports for men were
popular and our leagues flourished. However, we
once realized that we were not attracting young
married folks and middle aged men and women
to our centers. We examined our program and
resolved to give these peOple a social game and
yet a physical sport that would appeal to them.
\V hat should it be? What should we do? In rec-
reation you can’t wander around like Ulysses nor
can you rest on your oars with lackadaisical in-
dolence. You must be active. We turned to a
game which is comparatively new in America——
badminton.

Having had experience with games and their
appeal we reasoned that badminton might be an-
other midget golf, a Hash in the pan which might
pass quickly. Consequently we proceeded with
caution. We introduced it into our open mixed
groups and watched the reaction. The local
papers gave splendid publicity. The people started
to come—a few—many. After the missionary
work had been done, the game had an instantane-
ous appeal. We soon found ourselves in much the
same position as the “Old Woman in the Shoe.”
\Ve“ next took up the work of organizing these
enthusiasts and we were successful in having each
group of friends eStablish itself. Some of the
groups were smaller than others. By introduc-
tions and salesmanship we united smaller groups
into larger groups. We were all set to go now
but had no facilities for this game—badminton.

’We took our plan and story to the Superin-
tcndent of Schools and he in turn referred it to
the Board of Education. The Board cooperated
generously and placed courts in every school we
suggested without charge to the Bureau of Rec-
reation! There were some individuals who would
not or could not join the various groups and we
kept our original open night for these people.
When this organization work was accomplished
we found We had twenty—two organized groups
numbering from sixteen to forty members; our
total players in these groups is over five hundred.
This figure must be raised to nine hundred if we
include those playing on open nights and those
who have made applications for facilities which
we cannot supply.

Anyone wish-
ing a copy of
the rules for the
B a d mi n t o n
League as car-
ried on by the
Bureau of Rec-
reation in New
Rochelle. may
secure it on
request from
the National
Recreation
Associa tion

 

SOME SPORTS THAT SUCCEED WITH MIXED GROUPS

It is one problem to get the folks to come to
your centers but the real test of a program is to
keep them coming. We tried to give the utmost
satisfaction to every player by perfecting details.
\Ve immediately set up«rules and regulations gov—
erning the sport, the use of facilities, the paying
of custodians, and other administrative details.

We introduced the groups to one another by
the institution of a badminton league which plays
at the Senior High School. It must be remem-
bered that there is more to the promotion of a
badminton league than the assembling of people.
Any recreation executive will testify to the im-
portance of planning wisely and accurately. Re-
member this—you can’t copy a set-up from an-
other community as each town has its individual
problem for local solution. You may, however,

use the same psychology in initiating a new sports
venture.

Successful Mixed Baseball _
and Volleyball Teams

By MARGUERITE M. SCHWARZ
Department of Physical Education
University of Wisconsin

AT THE University of Wisconsin, mixed teams
of young men and women play baseball and

volleyball in intramural tournaments. These
mixed team sports—which in no way replace the
regular separate team sports of both sexes—had
their inception as an experiment on the part of the
Department of Physical Education for women in
1933 when, under Miss Blanche M. Trilling, the
department expanded its program to include vol-
leyball and baseball for women.

Under the usual intramural plan in operation
at Wisconsin, women’s groups submit their own
team lists. Following the same plan for the mixed
sports, each women’s group organized its own
mixed team and invited the required number of
men to join the team. The university church cen-
ters and the sororities were the most active par-
ticipants, although independent groups were also
organized.

A regular intramural tournament schedule was
drawn up for these teams, playing first a group
round-robin and then an elimination schedule
among the group winners. Because each mixed

353

team was entered under the name of some
women’s group, all organization problems were
handled through the women’s groups. The trophy
for the winning team was awarded to the women’s
group also.

In the past few years the number of mixed
teams in each tOUrnament has varied between
twenty and twenty-five. Volleyball has proved to
be the most popular offering, and in general the
degree of skill of the play has been superior to
that of baseball. In the mixed team tournaments
it has been necessary to set up certain rules to
adapt the games to the participants. Following. is
résumé of the regulations for each of the sports:

Rules and Regulations
Volleyball

1. A team shall consist of three men and three women
who are placed alternately on the court. The players
shall be placed in two rows and rotation shall be
counter-clock wise.

2. No assistance shall be allowed on the serve at any time.

3. A player shall have two serves if necessary on the
first serve; thereafter but one shall be allowed.

4. W'omen may play the ball twice in succession, 'but men
shall be allowed but one hit.

5. The ball may be played any number of times on one
side of the net unless in the opinion of the referee
there be unnecessary delay.

6. Pushing the ball and holding the ball, especially on
the smash, shall be called closely by the referee.
In all other rules the game shall follow the Ofiicial
\Vomen’s Rules in the above sport.

Baseball

1. A team shall consist of nine players, four of which
shall be men, the remaining five shall be women.

2. The game shall consist of five innings unless the score
is tied. In the case of a tie the necessary innings shall
be played.

3. Substitutions must be made so that the ratio of four
men and five women is maintained.

4. A man shall play the position of catcher.

The position of pitcher must ‘be alternated between a

man and a woman, with a man pitching the first, third

and fifth innings. This rule may be reversed, but in no
case shall a man pitch more than three innings.

6. Placement of the remaining players in the infield and
outfield shall be left to the individual teams.

In all other rules the game shall follow the Official

Women’s Rules.

The success of the mixed team intramural tour-
naments is demonstrated by a steady increase in
the number of groups participating. The mixed
tennis tournament, also an intramural event, at-
tracts some one hundred to one hundred and

(Continued on pagc 364)

5.11

Plus Experiments in Co-Edu‘cational Camping

HILF. M ANY recreational
Wagencies maintain co-edu-

cational camps for younger
children, only a few offer pro-
grams for mixed groups of boys and girls between
the ages of twelve and eighteen. Some agencies
feel unprepared to make the necessary physical
changes for such a setup; others fear the problems
which a co-educational camp for young people of
this CliH'lCUlt age presents. But other agencies have
assumed that since we emphasize more each year
the value of bringing boys and girls together for
work and play in our city recreation centers we
should fearlessly extend this opportunity for bet-
ter standards of social behavior into the most nor-
mal of all situations—J—living together in the coun-
try. They believe that a healthier atmosphere may
be maintained in a camp where counselors and
campers are men, women, boys and girls.

Subscribing to this latter belief, Hudson Guild
is one agency that has experimented in teen—age
camping. From observations of their experiences
and those of other organizations pioneering in this
field I would high-light the following points:

Although natural resources and camp equip-
ment are tremendously valuable in any camp, a
more vital asset is good leadership, and in camps
for the teen age this need is accentuated. Strong
counselors of experience are of inestimable value.
Maturity, with the understanding of the needs and
desires of young people, must be combined with
skills in which leaders have such interest that the
pursuit of constructive enthusiasms will be "catch-
ing” rather than tolerated by bored adolescents.
Leadership should take that place on the budget
. which means the best rather than the mediocre.
This does not mean that fine volunteer leaders
may not sometimes be available, but it does mean
that no camp director should be forced to take
volunteer leadership.

Even among the underprivileged we find many
boys and girls of fourteen years who have had
seven or more years of experience in organized
camps, and they may well suffer from the indif-
ference we find too often among the clientele of
expensrve private camps.

Every time we go to the country we should go
as explorers in search of those things which the
city cannot supply. The spirit of adventure should

354

By OLIVE L. WHITSON

Hudson Guild
New York City

be cultivated. \V e cannot rely on
the usual athletic program to sup-
ply for this age a vital stimulus
in experience of living together
in rural surroundings.

Developing Latent Powers

Less than two decades ago young people were
going out to earn a living at fourteen, and some
of us can remember the zest with which a four—
teen-year-old boy or girl brought home the first
pay envelope to drop in the lap of the mother
who waited on Saturday evening for the family
earnings. \Vhile we rejoice that the law no longer
makes wage earners of these children, we will do
well to recognize that the young person as a wage
earner becomes a more respected member of the
family and community. How can we give young
people at camp an analogous joyous feeling by
making use of their latent powers in some other
useful way?

Surely we must be careful of artificial setups,
but we must supply in our programs opportuni-
ties for young people to use the powers they have
to the full and in some creative way. Who shall
decide what is creative? Certainly the campers
themselves should be involved deeply in any plans.
Too often we see camp programs which change
nothing but the environment in which activities
are carried on. Perhaps the more primitive the
surroundings the easier it is for young explorers
to find some useful outlet for their energy. It is
not impossible to appeal to young people to sup-
ply those things vital to the carrying on of new
adventures. A hike may meet with little enthusi-
asm, but a morning's walk to a quiet spot in the
woods or to a pond on the camp grounds may,
under skillful leadership, bring out enthusiastic
suggestions for the making of a crude but sub—
stantial shelter or lean-to, perhaps a tepee or boat-
house. A camp director who starts Out with the
finest equipment, supplied to meet every need,
may be working at a disadvantage for no new
games or athletic programs will furnish the sub-
stantial, underlying quality in a camp which comes
from the recognition by the young people of cer-
tain definite things which they may wish to work
for and supply for themselves. Girls respond no
less than boys, if treated as people who have

' tween the ages of

PLUS EXPERIMENTS IN CO-EDUCATIONAL CAMPING 355

power to contribute of their brains and brawn to-
ward making a good camp. The desire for food
and shelter is basic, and as opportunity to supply
these in primitive surroundings appeals to most
young folks.

Activities as Vital Parts of a Whole
Creative Life

Music, dramatics, crafts, all have their place in
our programs but should be seen as vital parts of
a whole creative life rather than as isolated ac-
tivities. If a camp is fortunate enough to combine
some farming features the opportunity to enter
into the vital life of the place is offered. Boys and
girls alike love a hay field, and the thrill of riding
in on hay they haVe loaded makes the artificial hay
ride to town seem tame indeed. “we go to town
by auto, but we ride to the barn on a load of hay.”
Situations must be real if they are to really
awaken interest.

Should all activities in a co-educational camp be
for boys and girls? Not necessarily, but in the in-
terest of the girls let us not assume that there are
many things which girls cannot do. “I’m tired of
just doing dining room work,” said one girl. “I
want to pitch pebbles like the boys.” The boys
had been gathering stones for the foundation for a
new shack, and this plea gave the key to a more
active program for some husky girls who went to
work and constructed a much needed bridge over
a swamp between their
house and the public
road. It is sometimes
wise to have boys and
girls working separate-
ly on certain tasks for
there may be an emo—
tional strain which
comes from too con—
stant companionship,
and girls and boys
alike may want to do a
number of things alone.
A group of girls be-

twelve and eighteen
were eager last sum-
mer for a badminton
court near their house.
The ground surround-
ing the house was
rough, full of weeds,

and at one side a heavy , Courtesy Life Camps, Inc-

 

growth of underbrush had grown up. However,
they were told that their counselor would give
advice and help them if they wanted to take off
the sod and level the court. Anyone who has ever
tussled with sod knows what a job it is, and the
girls labored through the entire vacation weeks
taking off the humps and filling the holes. Septem-
ber came and saw the court ready for a top coat
of clay or sod; and now the same girls are look-
ing forward to that first game on their own home
built court.

One of the most popular parts of a camp pro-
gram is the supper hike. In preparing for a hike
both boys and girls enjoy clearing a new spot along
lake front or in woodland and building a fireplace
for cooking. Very often these supper parties may
be small in number with a half dozen boys and
the same number of girls. The natural division
of labor may be that the girls prepare the food
beforehand, the boys carry most of it to the camp
site. and they share in the actual cooking. If the
place chosen happens to be on the lake front
canoes may be taken out by those boys and girls
not scheduled for cooking and later, when clean-
up time comes around, the cooks may get a chance
at the canoes. The boys and girls enjoy the walk
home together, probably in pairs, but an evening
of this kind carried out under the right conditions
lills a real need in the lives of the teen—age group.
Their picnic has been not only play but has repre—

sented considerable

’ work together.

' On the athleticiield
boys far outshine the
girls and, this being the
case, real competition
seems pointless. How-
ever, girls’ events on a
general athletic pro-
gram meet with the ap-
proval of all. The same
is not so true of swim-
ming. and programs
must be worked out by
the swimming counselor
who knows the ability
of the boys and girls.
On all-day hikes girls
offer the boys good
competition, and many
is the group that has
returned finding the
girls in much better

Photo by L. B. Sharp

356 PLUS EXPERIMENTS IN CO-EDUCATIONAL CAJMPING

shape than the boys! In general,
let us have the athletic program
as natural as we can, with mixed
group activities in which both
boys and girls are interested;
but be careful not to force competition where
boys or girls feel particularly inferior.

On starlight nights there is often a real interest
in the constellations, and this activity, more gen—
erally known as “stargazing,” has been known to
work out quite well. One counselor, however,
objects to the use of the telescope for a group of
boys and girls. She feels that their interest in
one another gets in the way of the real activity.

Songs and stories must be carefully chosen for
a mixed group around the campfire, but there are
some that will be liked equally by boys and girls.
The touch of adventure, seasoned with reality, is

unfailingly appealing. One of the most successful‘

stories in our experience was “Fools’ Parade,” *
that thrilling and human story of the attempted

escape of five prisoners through the jungle from
Devil’s Island.

It is inevitable that in a co-educational camp for
the teen-age group there will be some “couples”
and some “wallflowers.” The experienced and
sympathetic leader will have to watch carefully
the boy or girl who is unpopular with the other
sex.  girl may not get her quota of attention
from the boys, and leader must see that she has
an opportunity to excel where and when she can
gain the approbation of her group. The impor-
tance of group life must be stressed and situations
created which will give each one an equal chance
socially. For example, in one co—educational camp
it was discovered that a certain shy boy could
concoct an exceptionally delicious spaghetti sauce.
This small art of which he was master, practiced
often for the benefit of his fellow campers, elicited
admiration that built up the boy’s self-confidence

and helped him to develop his latent social
qualities.

Evening prOgrams may be the greatest prob-
lem, and these should be planned by the group
or a committee of boys and girls. Stunts for
these programs may be prepared on rainy days.
These programs give an excellent opportunity for
such group dancing and games as will give each
person a chance for a normal amount of activity
and attention. Country square sets with a “caller

off” make it possible to change the couples with-
out resorting to the obvious “mixers.”

The outline of the program of the
Work Camp presented in this arti-
cle has been taken from the report
of one of the leaders of the camp.

“Work Camp” Proves Young
People’s Mettle
Returning to the subject of
the value of “real” situations in
mixed group camp programs—
situations close to life that call for serious effort
-—I may mention an interesting experiment in a
young people’s work camp held last summer on
Hudson Guild Farm property located fifty miles
from New York City, and eight miles from Net-
cong, New Jersey, on the Delaware & Lacka-
wanna Railroad. Already on the scene before the
work camp was set up were'groups of under-
privileged people. These underprivileged folk,
summer .campers, did part of their own camp
work and were encouraged to initiate projects in
which they were interested. But their primary
reason for being on the farm was to enjoy a happy
outdoor summer as free from care as possible.

The work camp, on the other hand, was avow-
edly organized not only to be self-dependent in
the matter of camp work but to perform service
work on regular schedule for the farm and for
the underprivileged campers—work which would
otherwise have had to be paid for. When it is
added that the young people of the work camp
were “overprivileged” youths and maidens (the
majority from private schools) who paid good
summer camp rates for the opportunity to put in
full days of physical toil, a rather unusual picture
is presented. The work camp project was in-
spired by the Friends’ Service group and spon—
sored by the Progressive Education Association.

In developing the work camp no attempt was
made to combine its program with that of the va-
cationers. The work campers lived by themselves '
and planned their own schedule of duties. The I;
work campers decided that everyone should take ‘
his or her turn at all the jobs which they agreed
to undertake. The work fell into two classes:

I. Routine jobs which had to be done, such as
camp clean-up, dining room work, dish washing,
and personal laundry.

2. Service work on the farm which included:
(1.. Barn duty beginning at 6:00 A. M. This
entailed milking, cleaning the stables and
working in the hay field and returning to
the barn for the afternoon chores. Per— ‘
haps fortunately for the carrying out of
this scheme the farmer cut his foot badly -

 

* “The Fools’ Parade” in Stories by John W. Vandercook. Pub»
lishcd by Harper and Bros, New York City.

(Continued - on page 364)

Co-Recreation at the Recreation Congress

of this issue of RECREA-

TION, the Twenty-Fourth
National Recreation Congress
will carry out the co-recreation
idea in its play night which
will be one of the features of
the opening session of the
Congress in Boston on Mon~
day, October 9th.

Play night has long been an
important part of the Recreation Congress pro-
gram to which delegates who have been coming
year after year look forward with genuine pleas-
ure. This hour of fun is the “ice breaker” of the
Congress; the introduction to the friendliness and
good fellowship which characterize the gathering.
it gives the delegates an opportunity to become
acquainted, and it is a practical demonstration of
one of the objectives of recreation—having fun
together!

This year Mr. R. E. Laveaga of the Boston
Y .M.C.A., author of the article, “Cd-Recreation
in the Y.M.C.A.‘" which appears on page 331 of
this issue, will be in charge of the program. Mr.
Laveaga has been very active in training social
recreation leaders and is a social recreation en~
thusiast. The program will include ice breakers,
psychology tests, a conversational grand march, a
birthday song fest, and a number of mass recrea-
tion activities. It will be valuable in showing how
a recreation leader can use this type of program
for large numbers of people.

“The only requirement for taking part in play
night,” Mr. Laveaga suggests, “is a broad smile
and a willing spirit.” He urges that everyone get
off to a good start by joining in the fun which this

IN THE SPIRIT of the theme

' hour of co—recreational fellowship will offer.

1

\\ gress program, for preceding

Monday night will be a notable one in the Con-

the play hour the delegates
will be officially welcomed by
the Honorable Leverett Sal-
tonstall, Governor of Massa-
chusetts, and the Honorable
Maurice J. Tobin, Boston’s
Mayor. These greetings will
i be followed by an address by

1

And, quite incidentally, of
course, some of the other
program features which
will help make the Twenty-
Fourth National Recrea-
tion Congress one you
ca n't afford to miss

A FINAL REMINDER!

The Twenty-Fourth National Recreation
Congress will be held in Boston. Octo-
ber 9-l3. I939, with headquarters at
the Hotel Statler. It is not too late to
make your plans to come if you have
not already done so. Write the Na-
tional Recreation Association for further
information regarding the Congress.

Dr. Abba Hillel Silver, who

has spoken to the Congress on
a number of previous occasions

and whose inspirational mes-
sage is one eagerly anticipated
by old friends of the Congress.
Delegates who have never be-
fore heard Dr. Silver have a
rare treat in store. His sub-
ject will be “The American
\Vay of Life.”

New England is so widely known as the home
of educational institutions that a Recreation Con-
gress held in Boston would not be complete with-
out the presence of college presidents. On the
second evening of the Congress six of them, pos-
sibly more, will come together in a panel discus-
sion in which a number of questions will be raised.
They will be asked to discuss such questions as:
“What is the relation of recreation to democ-
racy?” “To what extent can the fundamental de-
sires of men and women for living be met through
public recreation programs?” “What are the col-
leges doing to prepare our people for the use of
leisure?” “Does increased leisure under existing
conditions tend to breed discontent rather than
make life more satisfying?”

An important event of the Boston Congress
will be the Joseph Lee memorial meeting to be
held on Wednesday afternoon, October 11th.
Honorable William P. Long, Chairman of the
Boston Park Department, is serving as chairman
of this meeting. Dr. John H. Finley, President of
the National Recreation Association, will preside,
and there will be singing under the leadership of
A. D. Zanzig. Dr. Henry W. Holmes, Dean of
the Graduate School of Education, Harvard Uni-
versity, which Mr. Lee was instrumental in es-
tablishing, will give the main address. His topic
will be “Joseph Lee, Educa-
tional PhiIOSOpher.” This
meeting will have particular
significance for those who at-
tended the Congresses dur-
ing the years when Mr. Lee
as President of the National
Recreation Association pre-

(Continued on page 366)
357

WORLD AT PLAY

THE Play Center
Mother’s Club of the
Albany, California,
Recreation Depart-
ment is made up of mothers of the children en—
rolled at the play center. Meetings are held once
a month at which refreshments are served. The
club supplies equipment and meets incidental ex-
penses connected with the program through the
payment of dues of 50 cents a month. One of its
purposes is to furnish mothers with an oppor-
tunity for recreation with children safely taken
care of. They may enjoy such active sports as
tennis, archery, and golf or may join groups in
block printing, contract bridge, and dramatics.
Speakers are arranged for at some of the meet—
ings, and problems of the preschool child are dis-
cussed. Luncheons at some interesting place are
favorite means of entertainment, and an occa-
sional evening party is held in order that the
fathers may attend. Special parties for the chil-
dren at Christmas, Easter, May Day, and other
special days are a part of the program.

The Play Center
Mother’s Club

THE services of' two
“play ladies” and an
attractive magazine
edited for shut-ins are
two of the features of the recreation program
offered home invalids in Fargo, North Dakota,
and vicinity under the auspices of the WPA Rec-
reation Department and the American Legion
Auxiliary. The play ladies visit about a hundred
persons twice a month bringing games, toys, read-
ing matter, and materials for the invalids’ hob-
bies. The magazine, called Cheerio, contains an
editorial page, weekly “sermonettes” contributed
by local ministers, games, pastimes, puzzles, jokes,
and a page of personalities concerning the shut-
ins themselves.

Recreation for
Shut-ins

 

FEW people realize
how important a place
line fishing occupies in
the recreation of the
French. It is estimated that there are 250,000
kilometers of inland shore in France, and out of
these rivers fishermen extracted last year 5,300
tons of fish valued at 45,000,000 francs. The

358

Going Fishing in
France

 

French government is now taking great interest
in the question, and recently a “Group for the
Defense of Line Fisherman” has been constituted
at the French Chamber of Deputies. The follow-
ing objectives are offered: (I) the creation of an
international fishing committee; (2) the allot-
ting of definite fishing space to fishing societies;
(3) the attaching of the river fishery question to
the Ministry of Agriculture; and (4) the protec-
tion of waters against pollution.

LAST summer children
on the Montreal play-
grounds had their first
taste of self-govern-
ment. They elected officers, electioneered for
their favorite candidates, and voted for them. Elec-
tion posters were made up for each candidate and
pasted in prominent places. Some playgrounds
were run on the lines of an Indian encampment
with chiefs in charge; others as small cities with
police,-health, and safety officers, as well as mayor
and council. The boys and girls showed great
initiative in organizing their teams, handcraft
groups, and various activities.

They Governed
Themselves

THE National Park
Service has announc-
ed that as a result of
improved camping fa-
cilities throughout the country summer vacation
activities of city dwellers are showing an increas—

Upward Trend in
Camp Use

sition of recreational lands, the Service has de-H'
veloped organized camps which are helping greatly 
to provide low-cost vacations. In 1936 there were f
nine camps in Operation under the National Park
Service with a total of 37,310 camper days. In

1938 this figure grew to 49 camps and 376,173 ‘-

camper days. For 1939 the Service believes that

a conservative estimate will be at least sixty camps F

in operation with a total of 600,000 camper-days.

. . WA '1‘ R A. MAY»
Recreation 1n L E “

Hawaii .
of Directors of the.

National Recreation
Association, recently visited Hawaii and was'
given a splendid reception by the recreation au-

.‘l

ing trend toward outdoor life. Through the acqui- ;'

member of the Board" l

l

LET’S SERVE YOUTH! 359

thorities in Honolulu. He has submitted to the
National Recreation Association several reports
describing the recreation activities in Hawaii.
One of the interesting historical notes indicates
that on May 25, 1920 an ordinance was passed
creating a Recreation Commission for the City
and County of Honolulu. This ordinance was a
result of a visit to Hawaii of Dr. Henry S. Cur-
tis, former Secretary of the Playground and Rec-
reation Association of America, former Super-
visor of Playgrounds of the District of Columbia,
and author of “Education Through Play.” Dr.
Curtis at the invitation of several associations
made a recreation survey of the Islands early in
1920 and after careful consideration of the prob-
lems presented various recommendations in talks
and lectures. He was deeply impressed with the
possibilities of recreation in Honolulu and thought
of it particularly with reference to the drawing
together of all classes of society and all religions
and nationalities represented in that community.
Dr. Curtis was also responsible for the idea of
developing a water park for boating and various
other water sports.

Enthusiasm Over Clubs Grows—The group-
ing together of a number of persons, either adults
or children, into clubs at the various community
centers for the study, development, or enjoyment
of a hobby or some other interest or activity has
been the means of stimulating in Minneapolis,
Minnesota, a fine neighborhood spirit of sociabil-
ity, according to the 1938 annual report of the
Park Commission. As a new experiment garden
clubs were formed at eight recreation centers.
Both parents and children showed great enthusi-
asm over this field of nature study. Other clubs
have been organized in music, airplane making,
checkers, chess, and craft work.

A Record for Publicity—During the past
four years the Playground Board of Oak Park,
.‘Illinois, according to Josephine Blackstock, Di-
:rector of Playgrounds, has never once missed
'having a weekly article or photographs in the
llocal press. Over a period of twenty years, since
,the inception of the playground system, the Board

'has not missed more than seven weeks of con-
secutive weekly publicity.

 

vw—m -mu—uu—w

Let's Serve Youth!

(Continued from page 317)
. Open House Nights. Too many agencies still

THE P. GO

JOHN AND FINDLAY 51's..

 

CINCINNATI. 0.

open their gymnasium to boys on certain nights
and to girls one or two periods a week. There
has been little recognition of the joy young peo-
ple have in playing normally and naturally to-
gether in their summer play clothes on our
beaches and on our picnic areas during the three
short summer months. Why should this not be
continued throughout the year in open house
parties where they can come in the same play
clothes for mixed group volleyball, badminton,
relays, mass games, social recreation and old-time
dancing in the gym, as well as activities in every
other room of the house, especially game rooms
and informal singing of popular songs around the
piano in the lounge? Usually the open house is a
weekly event from seven until ten at night, with
free choice of activities until about nine o’clock,
when all gather in the gymnasium for informal
community singing, an amateur hour, floor show,
or informal entertainment followed by social rec—
reation and old-time dancing.

Social Dance Instruction. Although this is one
of the best conducted co-recreational activities to
be found in most of our centers today, still many
agencies fail to realize that a new social dance in-

360 THE MUNICIPALITIES LOOK AT CO-RECREATION

   
    
  
  
 
   
 
   
  

  

EAGLE

RINCER
(Patented)

 

   

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DBTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND
line of horseshoes and accessories,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

0 Many Styles of Horseshoes

0 Official Courts 0 Stakes

0 Stake Holders 0 Carrying Cases
0 Rule Books ' Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

 

struction class for beginners should be started
every six or eight weeks and that the most im-
portant part of the instruction is social dance
etiquette. In many centers uncouth adolescents
get their flI‘St “taming” under the friendly guid—
ance of a social dance teacher who even goes so
far as to demonstrate the correct procedure in
introducing friends who drop by a table in a. dine-
and-dance-place, as well as the more customary
ballroom etiquette.

Saturday Night Dances. So many, many agen-
cies close their doors Saturday evenings, which is
the important date night of the week and the one
time above all others when young people want to
go somewhere to dance. In many cities welfare
workers and youth leaders tell us that girls of
even junior high school age are to be found in the
taverns and roadhouses on Saturday evenings. It
is most important that at least one agency in our
smaller cities and one in each neighborhood of our
larger cities conduct an inexpensive Saturday
night dance, especially for the high school age
and that all other leaders in the neighborhood co-
operate and urge their young people to attend.
This dance should have just as much atmosphere

as we can possibly create. Many youth leaders

could profit by the example of the “dry night
club” on the University of Iowa campus.

Youth Themselves as Leaders

From earliest years boys and girls should serve
on committees together. As soon as they show
leadership responsibility in the teens they may
well be organized into a junior council to help
promote their own parties, picnic, outings, play
days, sports rallies, and other events, especially
where the emphasis is placed on activity rather
than on the opposite sex. Many of our boys and
girls develop real leadership ability in their high
school extracurricular activities. Then suddenly
they are out of school, often without a job, or
their vocations do not permit them to make use of
their leadership ability. These natural leaders
should be on our open-house councils, on our Sat-
urday night dance committees, on a house com—
mittee in charge of collecting furniture, repairing
it and fitting up a room to serve as a lounge. We
should marshal the forces of interested patrons,
electricians, sign painters, and all interested in
making our recreation centers really enjoyable
places for youth. We should secure the best pro-
fessional teachers of social dancing, the best quali-
hed women as leaders of our game rooms' and
lounge libraries for these activities can be feeders
for all of the more highly organized co-recrea-
tional and cultural classes and clubs.

Let’s give youth opportunities for service on
their own councils and committees. Let’s make it
possible for them to feel the thrill of success.
Let’s help them to help themselves through co-
recreation.

The Municipalities Look at

Co-Recreation
(Continued from page 324)

older children eager to perform on whatever
rhythm instruments could be easily and inexpen;
sively secured. Today the band still has a wash-
tub and a washboard but it boasts many other in‘
struments both home-made and manufactured:
bazooka, bass drums, Chinese cymbals, Chinese
tom-toms, triangles, small cymbals, tune time
bells, tambourines, spoons, tubs and Castanets.
With glee club, trios and quartettes added to its
activities, the band has advanced in membership
and ability and has found great enjoyment in its'
work and in its numerous public performances. '

ACTIVITIES OF CO-RECREATION CLUBS 361

Badminton in Hastings-on-Hudson. Of all mixed
group activities in Hastings-on-Hudson, Lucille
\V. Harrold, Supervisor of Girls’ Recreation,
considers badminton the most successful. “It was
more or less a case of making available an easily
accessible place to play, and advertising that there
was such a place,” says Miss Harrold. “The bad«
minton enthusiasts of the community then inter-
ested their friends. The newspapers carried
notices, wrote up special features, club matches,
high-lights of the games and players of the com-
munity. In the past three years the group has
grown from four persons to one hundred and
twenty—five different individuals participating.
There is an outstanding Badminton Club com-
posed of men and women with a high degree of
skill in the game. There is, besides, a large num—
ber of adults who play for the exercise and the
fun of it rather than for technical perfection.”

A social dance class, a folk dance group, social
recreation parties, spring and fall outings, a
forum, snow parties and ice-skating are all flour-
ishing co—recreative pursuits in Hastings. The

forum is in connection with the Town Hall of
the Air.

Indoor Archery Ranges. Indoor archery ranges
at three of Sioux City’s recreation centers are en-
joyed by a large number of young men and
women. A, regular hallway is used for the range,
with two 9’ x 12’ rugs suspended from an iron
rod 9% feet from the floor as a backstop. Three
bales of straw covered with burlap make a target.
Besides the archery classes two evenings a week

at each center, informal practice is possible on
other evenings.

"What's Your Recreation? We Have It," says the
Union County, New Jersey, Park Commission, to
seekers of pleasurable mixed-group activities.
Here’s the list: horseback riding, golf, trap and
skeet shooting, camera club, nature study and
hiking, archery, lawn bowling, badminton, swim-
ming parties, alley bowling, tennis, model boat
sailing, fishing, painting. gardening, discussion
forums, picnics, field hockey, winter sports, dra-
matics, game parties and dances. From F. S.
Mathewson Superintendent of Recreation, Union
County Park Commission.

Journalistic Groups. In Ben Franklin’s city it is
{fitting that journalism should be a subject which
‘lyoung people meet to discuss. Other mixed-
group activities that draw interested participants
in Philadelphia are: symphonic orchestras, debat-

 

BEN PEARSON

BONE AND ARHDWS

UF EXCELLENCE

Used by leading universities ana tournament
winners throughout America, Ben Pearson
Bows and Arrows are made by master crafts-
men, archers themselves, in America's largest

plant devoted exclusively to fine quality
archery equipment manufacture.

Get New Low Price Catalogue

Send for complete free interesting catalogue
and Manual of Archery on care of equip-
ment, correct shooting form. building targets.
tournament rules, etc.

BEN PEARSON. INC. Dept. R9 Pine Bluff. Ark.

ing forums, badminton and mixed gymnastic
nights. Philadelphia young people like dramatics
mixed with social good times. The presentation
of each play is followed by an after celebration.

"Social evenings with refreshments and dancing

are held at intervals by the dramatic groups.

Clubs such as hiking, horseback riding, bicycle,
archery, roller-t skating, glee, bridge, tennis and
garden all flourish in Philadelphia. Week-end
camping, with the girls doing the meal-planning
and cooking while the boys take care of the heavy
chores and dish washing has been most satis-
factory. From Mi-Jma B. Reichelt, Executive Sec-
retary and Supervisor, Bureau of Recreation,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Activities of Co-Recreation Clubs
(Continued from page 330)

the Consul of their parents’ homeland. When
they were discussing the affair with their leader
afterward one of the boys said that everyone there
seemed to be having such a good time, but there
were so many things that he was uncertain how
to do when he met new people that he was too
uneasy to enjoy himself. Another course started!

Other Lessons Learned

Aside from the good time that these co-recrea-
tion club members have, the new interests they
are exposed to, the skills they acquire, there is
the training in group living that they themselves
are conscious of getting. Recently a club was
working on a piece of organization that covered
several weeks. A young man who was chairman
of one section sent word that he would not be
able to continue on the committee and gave a rea-
son that sounded trivial. One of the girls in the
club said to the leader, "You can see the differ-
ence, can’t you, between some one who had been

362 COOPERATING IN RECREATION

an old member of a social center club and a new
one like him? He hasn’t learned what it means to
be responsible for a thing when it gets hard, and

see it through.”

These clubs give an opportunity for group ex-
perience to boys and girls who never have been
attracted to segregated clubs. Through these
groups they come into contact with boys and girls
of various skills and interest. One girl, as wild as
the proverbial March hare, who would spurn an
invitation to join a girls’ club, belongs to a co-
recreation club that has as part of its program the
reviewing of new books. She confessed to the
leader that she had never read an entire book be-
fore she joined the club. Last year she read
fourteen.

How valuable, how significant were the activi-
ties of these clubs in the lives of the boys and

girls who participated in them? What needs did a

they serve? Well, the girl who read fourteen
prescribed books in her .leisure was at least
pleasantly occupied for a good many hours and
was not twiddling her thumbs for something to
do. The club that had a forum on youth prob-
lems enjoyed stimulating discussions with boys
and girls of various backgrounds and experiences.
The club members who in‘ answer to the Gover—
nor’s proclamation helped in the eradication of
hay fever weeds had the exhilaration of collec-
tive experience in social action within their scope.
The young adults who worked in the Milwaukee
County Citizenship Day Program for the “new
twenty-one year olds” had an actual experience in
the responsibility of citizenship. Even the boys
and girls who organized a social function like a
mid—winter dance encountered conflicts within
their groups and learned that they could be solved
only by compromises and adjustments if the dance
were to be a success.

New environments, opportunities for creative
efforts in the arts, new social and cultural inter-
ests, new skills, new friends, social participation,
learning to give and learning to take, a gamut of
life experiences have become part of the lives of

1,713 boys and girls of fifty-three self-governed.
co-recreation clubs.

NOTE: Descriptions of the program of Co—Recreation
Clubs in a number of other cities will appear in the
October issue of RECREATION.

So-Ed Nites at the Tacoma Y.M.C.A.

(Continued from page 336)
Yourself, Handicraft, Effective Speaking. For

the spring: substitution of Dramatics for
Effective Speaking.

7. That the recreation program include bee
ginners’ ballroom dancing, rifle shooting, fenc—
ing, volleyball, badminton, swimming, and
bridge; also a song fest, headed by some good
song leader, for the benefit of the large group
which would like to participate in singing. The
boys’ game room to be open for ping-pong,
pool and billiards.

8. That the social hour be primarily dances,
with5 the first two dances in the form of mixers.
That some time during the six-week period,
if a dramatic group can be built up, a play be
put on for the social part of the evening.

We feel that the So-Ed program was one of
the highlights of our year’s achievements at
the Tacoma Y.M.C.A. because the sharing and
planning of this experiment gave many of our
young people an opportunity to use construc-
tively some of their leisure time. It also was
an inexpensive form of entertainment, a fact
which means a great deal these days. The fine
comments we have heard from those partici—
pating make us eagerly look forward to another
session.

Cooperating in Co-Recreation

(Continued from page 340)
come the leaders for the larger group; and it is
necessary that they have a fine and satisfying ex-
perience in relation to the group itself and the
staff that are working with them, and that they
themselves grow through that experience. Third,
to deve10p in the individual, through a variety of I"
relationships with young people of like experi- '.
ence and with others of different and wider ex—
perience, a philosophy of life which shall give them
courage and assurance in facing their own prob-
lems and in facing the problems in the world to-
day. Fourth, to deve10p an awareness of the -.
forces at work in the world today and to help the
individual to make his contribution, however small.
toward making this world a better place in which
to live.

Where Do We Go from Here?

And so, where do we go from here? That is a
question that we all must ask ourselves. Recrew
ation can be an end in itself, and rightly so at
times. Recreation can be purely relaxing, purely;
fun. Recreation can give personal satisfaction?“

 

“SI/VING NIGHT" _ 363

However, it is in the last two basic reasons for
our program, just stated, that we find some indi-
cation as to where we go from here. Those who
work in the recreational area of life know that
recreation doesn’t stop at being just play or just
fun. Recreation has to do with the individual and
his own creativeness and his own happiness and
satisfaction, but recreation has also to do with the
adjustment of that individual to life in general.
Recreation has to do with the individual and his
relationship to his home, his friends, his job, and
the community in which he lives. Recreation has
to do with self-direction and with the democratic
way of life. Recreation has to do with the very
fullness and richness of living.

Recreation, therefore, may be an end in itself
at certain points, but is also at the same time a
means to an end. In an organization such as the
Y.W.C.A., which in itself has a dynamic purpose,
the co-ed recreational program should be related
to this purpose and is related through the small
leadership group. We are challenged at the point
of developing young leaders who are conscious of
this purpose and its philosophy of life. We are
challenged at the point of helping them relate this
purpose and this philosophy to their own courage
and assurance in facing problems which confront
them. We are challenged at the point of develop-
ing an awareness in all young people of the forces
at work in the world today and helping them to
view these forces objectively so that they may
constructively contribute their share in helping
make this world a better place in which to live.
We know that through this recreational program
within an organization of dynamic and challeng—
ing purpose, life may become more integrated,
richer, and a Christian fellowship.

uSwing Night"
(Continued from page 341)

or to buy new equipment. The committee also
takes registrations, collects admission fees and is
responsible for the music and checking. The fact
that the committee comes out of the group itself
makes the young people feel that they are a self-
governing body. An advisory committee from the
3oard of Directors has also been appointed and
many of the problems have been taken to them.

 

 

Some Hints for Keeping Out of Trouble!

To those of you who may be contemplating
such a venture as ours, I should like to make these
following suggestions, for whereas we failed to
realize their importance, we are now up against a

much harder problem because it involves a re—
tracing of many steps.

First, have your leadership, plenty of it, before
you ever attempt to start a group. Once started,
the project is too big to handle without not only
trained leaders but many volunteers. Second,
limit the group from the first—either to high
school or out of school boys and girls, or by an
age limit. We are getting too many young girls,
and because they have been coming for some time,
it is hard to start limiting at this late date. Third,
limit the space to be used to either one or two
rooms, and then, as the group learns more respect
for the building and property, you may be able to
have lounging rooms, smoking rooms and a rec—
reation room. At lastly, let the boys know that
they are welcome that one night a week—but only
that one night. We have had the boys coming
every night in the week to use the game rooms, .
or just to hang out in the building, and we have
found it difficult to make them understand that we
can welcome them only Wednesday nights.

We are at present up against the problem of
feeling a definite need for expansion, for the bene-
fit of the group already coming to the building,
and for other young people in the community who
have no means of recreation at a small fee. The
situation has grown so far beyond us that we are
now considering the advisability of taking it to
the City Council of Social Agencies so that they
may see, as we have demonstrated, that there is a
great need here for co-ed recreational activities
for the young people of Trenton.

Where Cross the Crowded Ways

(Continued from page 350)

We were very fortunate in having as our guest
a steamship cruise captain who took us on a de-
lightful trip to Nassau and the Bahamas by means
of colored motion pictures. Following this, we
promenaded the “deck” in a snake dance, played
nautical games, and autographed sailor caps. After
refreshments were served, everyone joined hands
in a huge circle and sang “Aloha Oe” with that
sentimental feeling that goes with the docking of
a ship and the parting of friends who have had a
perfect voyage. Although there is bound to be a
tinge of sadness at vacation time, we knew that
with the foundation we had laid in the year be-
hind us, the coming year would be even better.

So the Thursday Evening Group of the Marble
Collegiate Church proudly sets a unique precedent,
and proves that recreation for young people in a
big city need no longer be a problem!

364 . SOME SPORTS THAT SUCCEED PVITH MIXED GROUPS

Porter Sargent Publications

A HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS. 23rd edition.
|I92 pages. $6.00. 4000 schools. I7 maps. 300 il-
lustrations. An Annual Review and Guide Book for,
all interested in education.

"The information about schools is com-
piled with care, sifted with judicial in-
tegrity and organized with such lucidity
that it cannot help but be of immense
assistance to the parent in search of a
school for his oEspring."—Edward La-
Rocque Tinker, The New York Times.

EDUCATION. l939. A REALISTIC APPRAISAL. I60

pages. SLOO. A survey of education as a social
process and a great industry.

"Read and read with interest the general
appraisal. You are doing a unique work."
—]olm Dewey, Columbia University.

HUMAN AFFAIRS. I939. ca 450 pages. tor Fall Pub-

lication. The international and domestic muddle
realistically presented.

A BRIEF SCHOOL GUIDE. 4th edition. I939. I78
pages. 25c.

THE SUMMER CAMP GUIDE. 4th edition. I939. I12
pages. 25c.

Circulars of any of the above and
announcements of forthcoming pub-
lications will be sent on request.

PORTER SARGENT
n BEACON STREET BOSTON. MASS.

 

Some Sports That Succeed with
Mixed Groups

(Continued from page 353)

twenty-five couples. The extent of the program is
limited by the fact that available facilities are
needed for women’s activities. The solution would
be an additional sports building that could be
dedicated to a mixed program.

Winter Sports Were Made

tor Co-Recreation

By JESSIE SCHOFIELD
Superintendent of Municipal Recreation

Salt Lake City. Utah

INTI-3R SPORTS are a boon to the recreation
W worker who is eager to develop his co-rec-
reational program. Winter sports don’t
need to go through a process of trial and error to
prove their suitability for mixed groups. They

already are co-recreational. Very seldom are
groups of boys, or of girls, alone, seen skiing in
the mountains. Always a mixed group is found.
Seldom does a toboggan full of gay people pass
composed entirely of boys or of girls. Nearly
always there is a combination of both. An ice rink
is never used by boys alone. If the young people
have gone separately, they soon “team up.”

Perhaps the very nature of winter sports is
responsible. Each activity is an individual thing,
and because young people do things together is
no reason that they need do them equally well.
Not a little of the day’s enjoyment comes from
the “teacher-pupil” attitude of each pair, the boy
teaching the girl the things he thinks he knows.
A frequent scene shows the young man far up
on the hillside with a “Watch me” attitude as he
comes down, and the young lady “watching” from
the bottom. Vaingloriously he tries again if he
fails!

More often, however, are the young people ski-
ing together, riding the lifts, and attempting the
same slopes. The boys take steeper “schusses”
and faster turns, but the girls are rapidly becom-
ing proficient and able to carry on.

The companionable part of the day is meal time
around the fire or on a sunny slope. (Only win-
ter sport enthusiasts know that it is far warmer
on a sunshiny day on the mountainsides where
the snow is ten feet deep than in the valley
below.) There the yarns are told and the songs
are sung. Most fortunate are those who are stay—
ing over night. The fun of skiing in the moon—
light can be equaled nowhere, and afterwards
games and 'dancing, songs, stunts, and stories in
the cabin make a week-end which long remains a
red-letter memory. Certainly true recreation is
enjoyed most when there is a mixed group.

The ride to and from the area is part of the
complete enjOyment of the day. Whether it be by
car, bus or ski—train, the trip is voted a success if
young people together make the ride a merry time
with songs, games and stories.

Winter Sports, then, are really a grand co-rec-
reational activity!

Plus Experiments in Co-Educational
Camping
(Continued from page 356)
early in August, and one of the more able
0f the work camp boys took over the '
management of the barn work. Other
boys asked permission to help and for '

 
   
  

SCHOOL ACTIVITI

Subscription

d.

PLUS EXPERIMENTS IN CO-EDUCATIONAL CAMPING 365

   

Price

$2.00

  

two weeks got up regularly at 4 :00 o’clock
in the morning to bring in the cows, to do
the milking, and clean the stables. It was
enlightening to see the tremendous. satis-
faction the boys took in feeling that they
were filling a real place and that their
work was not only an addition to the
farm but essential to its carrying on.

Preparing vegetables each day not only
for the work camp but for the main din-
ing room where over a hundred were fed

each day.

0. Forestry. This was started after an expert

had gone over with the campers the prob-
lem of caring for the woodland. It in-
volved cutting away the und'erbrush, tak-
ing out dead and undesirable timber,
stacking the good lumber, and burning the
brush. It was hard labor and popular
throughout the summer.

Helping in the day camp which was run
by a professional worker who cared for
the children of settlement families who
were vacationing and doing their own

A Journal of Ideas and Projects for the School as a

CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP LABORATORY

in which

Student Council, Clubs, Home Rooms, Athletics,
Music, Debate, Publications, Trips, Dramatics,
Assembly, Financing Activities, and Social
Functions make democratic settings and life
situations typical of the American way of living
and Working together.

ES PUBLISHING CO.

1515 LANE STREET - -

cSahara-Q Activities

HARRY C. McKOWN. Editor
C. R. VAN NICE. Managing Editor

 
 
 

TOPEKA, KANSAS

housekeeping in rented cottages on the
farm. Although this job was physically
less strenuous, it was also less popular
than the others.

6. Work in connection with the rehabilita—
tion of an old ten room farm house. This
included tearing off old plaster, putting in
new lathing and plaster, repairing window
frames, putting in glass, laying floor
boards and painting, and in the end see-
ing a clean, usable house available for the
use of underprivileged families.

It wasn’t all work and no play even for these
ambitious young folk. There were daytime trips
to a silk mill, a large laundry, the Borden Farm
at Plainfield, and the Government Homestead at
Hightstown. Always, following one of these trips,
there was fruitful discussion of the work which
interested the group. Many questions of interest
arose as an outcome of the work done at the
farm. Visitors from the State Agricultural Col-
lege led discussions which had direct bearing on
farm problems. The evening programs included
country dances in the dining room where the

366

CO-RECREATION AT THE RECREATION CONGRESS

CHARACTER
AND CITIZENSHIP

brings each month to its readers a storY
of what community organizations, insti-
tutions, and agencies are doing — or
not doing —

To lay the foundation for good citizenship

To build good character

To deveIOp personality

To solve community problems

To safeguard democratic institutions

To improve family life

To promote recreation and good health

To encourage cOOperative activities

The magazine is the medium of expres-
sion for the National Council on Educa-
tion for Character and Citizenship. It is
of particular value to:

Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. Secretaries and
Directors

Boy and Girl Scout Executives

Parent-Teacher Association Officers

Leaders of Youth Clubs and Activities
Directors of Recreation

Leaders of Other Character Building Agencies

Dr. Francis L. Bacon, Principal of the Evanston,
Illinois, Township High School says, "The current
issue of your magazine, CHARACTER and
CITIZENSHIP, came to my desk this week. I
carried it home and pleasantly, I believe profit-

ably, too, spent an evening reading the entire
contents.

"Permit me to express my appreciation of the
increasing value of this unique periodical. I could
ardently wish that every school library possess
one or more subscriptions. It would seem, too, that
civics and guidance teachers might'well utilize
the magazine as reference material for students.

"The overview which your periodical gives to
the work of the various social agencies and the
emphasis afforded to the desirable coordination
of school and community social agencies consti-

tute a superior service. More power to your
efforts!” 0

Send your order to

Character and Citizenship

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

’---.l-----------

O

'0 Please record my name as a sub— .

scriber to CHARACTER AND CITIZEN-
SHIP as checked below.

[:1 One year subscription at $2.00

 

neighborhood fiddler was invited to play for
square sets; singing around the campfire; and two
“free nights” during the week. On these even-
ings the young people were responsible for their
own recreation and within limits were free to go
and do as they wished. It is interesting to note
that as the summer passed the work camp boys
and girls gained the respect of the vacation camp-
ers, and a feeling of confidence and friendship
grew up through respect for the sincerity of what
each group was doing.

When the camp season was over there were
many differences of opinion as to the solution of
specific problems that had arisen, but there was
universal enthusiasm for the work plan as a whole
and the leaders of the group felt that the method
was essentially right. The boys and girls agreed
that it was the finest summer they had ever had.

We recognize the tremendous interest of boys
and girls in each other. After some study of ex-
periments with the teen age in co-educational
camps it seems evident that these camps fill some
of the vital needs of young people and that some
of the fundamental ideas embodied in the work
camp may well be tried with less privileged boys
and girls. More leaders are becoming convinced
of the advantages of co-education in camps, but
they know that it can only be successful if the
life of the young people is focused on vital work,
spontaneous play, and intellectual activities suit-
able to the mentality of the group.

Cb-Recreation at: the Recreation

Congress
(Continued from page 357)

sided over the meetings and took part with keen .1

- enjoyment in the play nights.

Much interest is being shown in the meeting at
which representatives of industrial plants will dis-
cuss their problems and achievements in provid-
ing employee recreation. At an industrial recrea-
tion luncheon on October 11th, Ralph Lees of the
General Motors Corporation, will speak on “In-
dustry’s Responsibility for Recreation.” John W.
Higgins, President of the Worcester Pressed Steel
Corporation, will preside.

The Twenty-Fourth National Recreation Corl- ,
gress bids fair to be a vitally important one. With
so many subjects demanding discussion and so
many grOups asking for hearings, the program
will be an unusually full one. October 9-13 will '
be a busy time but a happy one for those attending!

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Camp Management

A Manual on Organized Camping. By H. W. Gibson.
Greenberg, Publisher, New York. $5.00.

HE FIRST EDITION OF Camp Management was published
in 1923. The demand for the manual was so great
that the entire edition was sol-d within a short time. New
chapters have been added in making the revision, some
chapters have been omitted, and a number have been
rewritten to meet the many changes which have taken
place in the camping world in the past two decades. In
its revised form, with its practical discussions of all the
various phases of the oamp movement from "buildings,
equipment, and sanitation to a digest of laws affecting
camping, the book will prove an invaluable guide to

camp directors.

Your City

By E. L. Thorndike.
New York. $2.00.

HAT MAKES for “goodness of life” in a city? Dr.

Thorndike has measured and appraised three hundred
American cities in an attempt to answer this question,
and as a result he has given us a score card for measuring
the qualities of cities. In his appraisal he has selected
thirty-seven items or features or traits, as he calls them,
as significant for “the goodness of life for good people in
a city.” The first four concern health; eight‘, the educa-
tional opportunities provided by the public; two, public
provision for recreation, or the per capita publicexpense
for recreational facilities and park acreage. Eight items
are listed as economic and social; five concern “creature
comforts"; and the final six taken as evidence of good

Harcourt, Brace and Company,

lconditions are the infrequency of death from syphilis,
:homicide and automobile accidents, and the value of the

l

.city property in schools, libraries, museums, parks and

3|

“other recreational facilities in relation to the value of its

iother property in police stations, jails, courthouses, and
' buildings used for general government. The conclusions

Dr. Thorndike reaches are challenging and will arouse
much discussion.

Herbs for Urbans and Suburbans

By Katherine van der Veer. Loker Raley, 505 Fifth
Avenue, New York. $1.25.

HERE Is A READABLE book about herbs, with tested
recipes and-random thoughts. All the herbs listed
:an be grown or purchased in the United States. The
‘aising of herbs is becoming so increasingly a popular
Hobby that books on the subject are in great demand.

The Cine-Sports Library

international Sports, Inc., 611 Security Trust Building,
Indianapolis. Each $1.00.

HE Ciné-Sports Library offers new educational and
instructional material in various sports in a series of
)ooklets which cannot fail to be of interest to recreation
‘vorkers, physical educators, and coaches. The authors

 
   
 
 
  

l
l i.

have collected all available data on technique and put it
in the form of moving pictures. It has been their ob-
jective to sift, shake down, test, and measure the best
of the known points on technique. Thus far the series
include The High Jump; The Hurdles; The Shot Put;
The Broad Jump; The Discus Throw; The Pole Vault;
The Distance Runs—Cross Country; The Javelin Throw

and Relay Races; The Middle Distance Rims; and The
Sprint Races.

Games for Rural Schools

By Myrtle Yoder Messenger. Burgess Publishing Com-
pany, Minneapolis, Minnesota. $1.35. ,

N ASSEMBLING the games described in this booklet—and

they have been thoroughly tested and selected only on
the basis of their practical value—an effort has been made
to secure games adaptable to a variety of existing situa-
tions in rural schools. In addition to active games, there
are indoor quiet games suitable for mixed groups and a
section on “Community Club Ice Breakers.”

Training for Championship Athletics

By C. Ward Crampton, M.D. Whittlesey House, Mc-
GraW-Hill Book Company, Inc., New York. $2.50.

THIS BOOK is designed to 'be of help to every man or
boy who wants to excel in his chosen sport. Part I
concerns itself with scientific advice on the coordination

of muscles and the development of good form for track,
baseball, basketball and football. The second part of the

book offers detailed rules for training, covering general
diet, pre-game diet, daily exercise, special exercises for
special sports, and practice schedules. There are sugges-
tions for all on how to have a healthier, happier time all
through life. The information is presented in the same in-
teresting style which makes Dr. Crampton’s Boy’s Book
of Strength so popular.

Municipal Index and Atlas I939

American City Magazine Corporation, 470 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York. $5.00.

THE FIFTEENTH annual edition of the Municipal Index
and Atlas contains information on municipal services
and directories of municipal officers which are invaluable
for city ofiicials. One chapter is devoted to parks, play-
grounds, swimming pools, and airports, and there is a
section on new publications for the City Hall Library
which lists a number of new publications on recreation.

From Building to Neighborhood

By Abel J. Gregg and Charlotte Himber. Association
Press, New York. $.50.

THIS MANUAL on the decentralization of group work is
the result of a resolution passed at the fifth North
American Assembly of Y.M.C.A. Workers with B0ys,
which requested the National Council Boys’ Work Sec-
tion to produce a manual on decentralized community
work. Among the subjects discussed are the reasons for

367

368 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

decentralization; the first steps to be taken in_the de-
centralizing program; the formulation of poliCies by
governing boards and guiding committees; leadership
and supervision; financing; recruiting and grouping;
and interclub councils.

Social Services and the Schools.

Educational Policies Commission. National Educa-
tion Association of the United States and the Ameri-
can Association of School Administrators, 1201 Six—
teenth Street, Northwest, Washington, D. C.

In this study by the Educational Policies Commission a
section is devoted to community recreation administration
in which various forms of administration are presented.
Recreation workers will be interested in studying this
section and the decisions reached by the Commission as
to a desirable form Of administration, though there will
be undoubtedly a division of opinion regarding the recom-
mendations of the Commission.

I The report as a whole is given over to an analysis of
cooperative relationships between public schools and pub-
lic health, welfare, and recreation agencies and public
libraries. William G. Carr is Secretary of the Commis-
sion which was appointed by the National .Education As-
sociation and the American Association of School Ad-
ministrators.

Physiology of Exercise.

By James Hqu McCurdy and Leonard A. Larson.
Lea & Febiger. Philadelphia. $3.75.

In preparing the third edition of this standard work
considerable research has been necessary and very ex-
tensive revision has been made. Two new sections have
been added—~a chapter on exercise for people over forty
years of age and a section on exercise for women which
reviews the particular problems related to women’s phy-
sical exercise. Under “Muscular Ability” the authors
discuss the three fundamental physiological factors re-
lated to the development of recreational skills—postural
strength and flexibility, organic power, and neuro-muscu-
lar skills. “The two biggest factors in games skills are
eye judgments and the feeling judgments of muscle sense.
The joy of accomplishment comes from ability in these
three factors.” An important contribution has been made
in the specific and general bibliographies all of which will
prove of great value to research workers and to students

_in professional courses in health, physical education, and
recreation.

Encyclopedia of Knots and Fancy Rope Work.

By Raoul Graumont and John Hensel. Cornell Mari-
time Press, 350 West 23rd Street, New York. $10.00.

A complete encyclopedia of knots consisting of 640
pages With 270 photo-engraved plates illustrating 3100
designs, including every variety of knot, weave, braid,
whipping, Sizmg and splicing. Each design is clearly and
completely explained in the twelve chapters that make up
the volume. The book contains a comprehensive history

of rope and rOpe making, also a glossary of rope terms.

Bruce and Marcia, Woodsmen.

By William P. Alexander and Maribelle Cormack.
American Book Company, New York. $.80.

Here is a book on nature lore through which many
MarCias and Bruces may join Professor Freudemacher
in exploring the out-of-doors and in adventuring in
indoor laboratories. Children of the upper elementary
grades _will be interested in this book, designed to
familiarize them with plants and animals, because the
descriptions are offered in a natural and vivid way which

cannot fail to appeal to them. Many illustrations add
to the interest of the book.

Amateur Craftsman’s CycIOpedia.

Prepared by the Editorial Staff of Popular Science
Monthly. Grosset and Dunlap, New York. $1.95.

Here is a complete manual for the home rworkshop
enthusiast with detailed working drawings and instruc-
tions for making toys, novelties, sporting equipment,
models, furniture, house and garden conveniences, radios,
photographic accessories, and scientific instruments.
There are over 1,400 working drawings, diagrams, and
illustrations. The selection of material has been made
from the hundreds of articles which 'have appeared in
Popular Science Monthly over a four-year period. Each
article has been selected because of its popularity with the
home craftsmen. There are almost 350 pages in this
volume.

Traditional Ballads Mainly from West Virginia.

Collected under the auspices of the West Virginia
Folk Lore Society by John Harrington Cos. Federal
Theater Project, New York, Publication No. 75-5.
$.25.

A collection of 37 folk tunes and 49 texts, fragments
and variants included. Full notes and references are
given for each ballad.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

« JOHN H. FINLEY, President
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS, NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL. Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICROX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGIIBS, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. McCURnr, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

T. SUFFERN TAILER, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. W'ADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York’ N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

—— ——_ -.

