On What: Is to Be Taken for Granted

F COURSE, recreation workers believe in truth, honesty, good—
0 ness, beauty, loyalty, courage, cheerfulness, open—mindedness.
_ But they also believe that we should not always be talking
about these virtues or even thinking about them. If we do, we make
this a dull, tiresome, priggish world.

Leaders should possess a few qualities which are contagious.
Character by contagion is much easier to take and is in all proba-
bility better' than character by constant, continuous, conscious coun-
seling and molding.

Boys themselves have a high regard for goodness but not for
talking about it. It will be a sorry day for America when the nor—
mal, red-blooded boy is willing to stand patiently and have a badge
pinned on him indicating that he has been a good boy. The average
boy in good health with plenty of beefsteak in him is skillful in
trying to keep even his parents from calling him good. If there must
be any thinking about it, let it be taken for granted. What is taken
for granted and not even talked about is what is most important,
and has the deepest influence. The boy himself is concerned that he

is good for something.

We certainly need occasionally to take a recess from character
building or, for that matter, from any kind of building and simply
live and let others live.

We have not yet begun to explore the compelling power of
being in a current of Vital living, of having worth—while ends that

really command our entire affection and all our being.

Just having an opportunity to be with comrades of the right
kind, to rid ourselves of fear, to be entirely freed from loneliness,
to have opportunity to give form to our dreams—this in itself helps

to abolish evil and create positive good.

W 8Waéuz/z/

 

 

481

December

 

a I 0
mm x  w  "”  
Photo by H. Armstrong Roberts

482

 

Professional Leadership in

 

the Field
oi

Public

Recreation

By
H. A. OVERSTREET

Courtesy Essex County Park Commission

E ARE FAR from the days when public rec-
reation was conceived of merely in terms

of the underprivileged. In those days dire
necessity was the mother of invention. We pro-
vided playgrounds because we simply could not
disregard the children of the gutter. Today pub—
lic recreation is as much concerned with the chil-
dren in garden areas as with the children in the
slums; with adults who own businesses as with
adults who are run by them; with mothers who
have most of the things they want as with moth-
ers who have practically nothing. Public recrea-
tion is beginning to be thought of as we have long

- learned to think of education and of library ser—

vice, as necessary for everybody, high and low,
rich and poor.

The time is rapidly approaching when every
sizeable community and every rural region will
have its recreation center. Recreation from the
most juvenile physical level to the most mature
mental level will take its place
as an absolute essential of
civilized community life.

This means that we shall
increasingly be in need of
men and women trained to
organize community recrea—
tion. We have such men and
women now working in hun-
dreds of our towns and

In connection with the Boston Recreation
Congress. the Society of Recreation
Workers of America held a luncheon
attended by approximately two hundred
members and their friends. We are in-
debted to the Society for permitting us
to publish in Recreation the address de-
livered at the luncheon by Dr. H. A.
Overstreet. Professor of Philosophy at
the College of the City of New York.

cities. Most of them have undergone such train-.
ing as has thus far seemed wise. As the move-
ment grows and as our experience ripens, there is
every reason to suppose that the training of rec-
reation leaders will assume the importance that is
now accorded the training of teachers. We re-
member how in the early days of the public school
system there was very little systematic training
of teachers. Teachers had to be taken on because
of a little book larnin’ they possessed and the
ability to keep children occupied at classroom
tasks. \Ne have gone far beyond those days.
Training teachers is serious business that invokes
all the arts and sciences. The same thing is sure
to happen in the training of recreation leaders as
we come to regard recreation, of young and old,
as essential to healthy community life.

It will not be amiss, then, to examine the quali-
ties that we now can see are needful in a success-
ful recreation leader. If we hold these qualities
in mind, we have the basis
for organizing our training
procedures. This training has
one advantage over the train-
ing of public school teachers:
it has not yet been hardened
into a pedagogical pattern. It
has all the advantage of
newness. The educational
fraternity scarcely knows

4R3

484

that such training is going on. Hence the training
has thus far escaped being crowded into a Pro-

crustean bed of pedagogic method.

Essential Qualities

There would seem to be at least ten indispena
sable qualities essential in a recreation leader:

The first essential quality is wisdom with peo-
ple. Here is a quality that is probably native.
There are individuals who have the gift of being
able to project themselves into others, of being
sensitive to what others feel and care about and
suffer, the gift of knowing how to make the right
responses so that others are made more alive by
their understanding. If this gift is lacking—as it
is in many a too-self-centered introvert, or in
many a too-brash extrovert—there seems nothing
to do about it. Such an individual has no place
as a leader of young or old in the deeply personal
area of the play life. But if the gift is there it
needs training. A native sensitiveness to other
people, uninstructed, can easily go wrong. Hence
the need for a thorough-going education in the
psychological sciences; the psychology of child-
hood and adolescence, of maturity and old age;
the psychology of learning, of work, and of play;
the psychology that deals with frustrations and
aberrations; the psychology of the group and the
crowd. A recreation leader—far mOre even than
a classroom teacher—is touching individual lives
at many points. It is fatal if he is grossly ignor-
ant of what people are, what they desire, what
hurts them, what heals and sustains.

The second indispensable is community intelli-
gence. This is something more than what is broadly
called “social intelligence.” The recreational leader
has to be more than a generalized lover of man—
kind; he has to have a gift for being intimate
with his specific community. He has to like to
move around in it, to know its hidden places,
feel its life, know its people. Here, too, is a
native gift, but one which needs training. Gen-
eral courses in sociology will help, but they are
seldom enough, for they deal in large generali-
ties about society spread over large expanses. A
recreation leader needs training in becoming in-
timate with a specific community. This means a
very special kind of course, one which has its
observation posts and its laboratories in the
streets and houses, the schools and library, the
police court and post office, the slums and the
garden areas.

PROFESSIONAL LEADERSHIP IN THE FIELD OF RECREATION

A third indispensable is ingenuity with ma-
terials. I am afraid we have here, again, a native

gift, but one which needs training by contact with

the special kind of material that a recreation
leader is likely to use. Here is the chance for a
unique kind of laboratory, a laboratory of rela-
tively meagre materials out of which the student

is to succeed in organizing a rich recreational ex-

perience for his people. It is the project of learn-
ing to feed the multitude with a few loaves and

fishes.

A fourth indispensable is a long patience. This, '

I think, can be trained by giving the student a
sufficiently clear, long-range view of what he is
aiming to accomplish, and at the same time a
sufficiently realistic knowledge of the shortcom-
ingsmlovable and otherwise—of the people with
whom he is to work. To know What to expect of
people is already to be on guard against too sud-
den and devastating disappointments. Patience
is a kind of wisdom of insight. Not to expect too
much at the same time that one aims at much is
to be proof against the inertias, stupidities, petti—
nesses, and double-crossings that make honest
effort in a high cause difficult to maintain.

A fifth indispensable is a sincere tolerance.
Both words here are necessary. There is the kind
of tolerance which is a surface thing, a passing
politeness; and the kind of tolerance which
springs out of the deep love of letting the other
mind release itself, a tolerance that respects the
other as one respects oneself. Can such tolerance
be taUght? Yes and no. It cannot be directly
taught, but it can be helped into being as one

learns deeply to know people, their unexpressed ,
prides, their hurts, their outreachings to things .

beyond their power. Tolerance is the fruit of a

mature philosophy. W hen one has learned to see 

life steadily and see it whole, one is less likely to
set up one’s own private opinion as a measure of
the universe. One takes in the other fellow be-
cause he is a part of what one sees steadily and
whole. The recreation leader must grow into a
mature philosophy.

Following closely upon these is the sixth in—

dispensable—a sense of humor. A sense of humor'

is the divine marriage of modesty and playful-
ness. It is the ability to see oneself in proportion
abut not solemnly, virtuously, self-deprecatingly.
Humor is a sense of proportion that is gay in
acknowledgment of its own shortcomings. To be
able to latlgh at oneself is the essence of humor.
7W hen one laughs, one condemns oneself; but the

i
l

l

PROFESSIONAL LEADERSHIP IN THE FIELD OF RECREATION 485

laughter heals the condemnation. There are per-
sons, apparently, who have no sense of humor.
They do not belong on recreation fields. But even
a native gift of humor needs cultivation lest it
become a too-easy habit of wise-cracking and back-
slapping. All that we have said about philosophy
applies to the cultivation of humor. We say of
certain tobaccos that they are mellowed in the
wood. We can likewise say of humor that it has
to be mellowed in a philosophy.

The seventh indispensable is a democratic at-
titude and procedure. The worst sin, almost, that
a recreation leader can commit is to dominate his
people. His supreme art is to elicit their own
initiative, to give their own freedoms the chance
to blossom into joy. The recreation center is a
democracy-in-the—little, or it is no proper center.
Can the democratic attitude be trained? It, too,
is probably native. It goes with the gift‘of liking
and understanding people. It
goes with a native absence of
snobbish aloofness. But it
can be widened and deepened
by understanding people, and
it can be made to become ef-
fectively alive by making con-
tact with people. Also, there
are many procedures which
a recreation leader needs to
learn: how to talk with peo-
ple and to people; how to
conduct meetings; how to get
a discussion under way and keep it on the high
level of democratic give-and—take; how to be the
administrator and still keep. in the psychological
background; how to work helpfully with a staff
of fellow-workers. These are all matters that can
be learned.

The eighth indispensable is obvious: skill in a
particular jield and in several avocations. Here,
again, while there will be native leanings, there
must be training. The recreation leader must be
not only a theoretical looker-on and administrator,
but an enthusiastic doer of something that he can
do fairly well. For learning, after all, goes by the
contagion of example far more than by word of
mouth. The leader who can be “in on the game”
is in that very act of participation far more of a
leader than he who stands on the sidelines. H encc
the need for as much skill in as many fields as
possible.

The ninth indiSpensable is emotional maturity.
This is profoundly important. To have a badly

"And here' perhaps, lies the essential
secret of life. We make our games and
the rules of the games' and we play them
with zest. But we humans have it in us
to be more than followers of rules. It
is part of the adventure of our exis-
tence to be forever initiators of new ways
of experience that bring intimacy with
the materials of life and a release for
our special kind of ioy."—H. A. 0091'-
street in A Guide to Civilized Loafing.

adjusted individual in charge of those who seek
release from their own maladjustments is to put
the sick in the hands of a sick man instead of a
physician. To put children in control of one who
has childish regressions—bad temper, jealousy,
boastfulness, the wish to be noticed, the craving
to be praised—is to hinder their own growth into
maturity. The recreation leader can be trained to
know the signs of emotional maturity in himself
and how to rescue himself from childish regres-
sions and fixations. Nothing is surer than the
need for a vibrantly whole man or woman, an
emotionally sound man or woman, in a situation
where people are supposed to be given the chance
to escape from their own onesidednesses and im-
maturities. .

Finally, there is the tenth indispensable: a deep
happiness in the work. The schools, we know,
have long suffered from the fact that many a
teacher hates his work, wishes
he could do something else,
has no confidence in what he
or his fellow workers are
doing. This is fatal to gen-
uine education. It is fatal,
too, to genuine recreational
leadership. There must be,
therefore, the deep convic-
tion that this thing is worth
while, and that one is pro-
foundly fortunate in being
permitted to devote a lifetime
in its service. Only the deeply and happily dedi-
cated can be movers of men. Fundamental to
everything else is the conviction that this job is
the way, not only to human usefulness, but to
one’s own intensest happiness.

Ten indispensables. Can we build a curriculum
upon them? I think we can. It Will be a curricu-
lum far richer in content, far more nearly related
to the life of human beings, than most. There is
every reason to believe that if recreation becomes
one of the major cultural concerns of our civiliza-
tion, we shall build training courses that will cul-
tivate qualities like the above, qualities that make
the recreation leader into a wise and resourceful
guide of his people.

“Here are three qualities of personality: con-
tinuous growth, emotional control, and interest in
others. When combined, these can make the kind
of person whose life has unity of aim and direc-

tion.”—From Let Me Think, by H. A. Overstreet,

What They Say About Recreation

” HE SIMPLE folk songs, music, and dances
T which served as the chief recreation in early
colonization days and during 0111‘ nation’s
early struggles are needed now in these restless
times to help us keep our balance. We are pio-
neering again in many respects, searching for a
better way of life in a civilization much more
complex than our fathers found here. We need a
song, as they did.” Sarah Gertrude Knott in
“The National Folk Festivalu—Its Problems and

Reasons.”

“The field of recreation is on its way. While it
is not new as a life process, its importance is
new, and every factor of the social and economic
set-up indicates that it will grow exceedingly
more important in the near future.”——Harold D.
Meyer in “Recreation Continues Its Impetus,"

Social Forces, May 1939.

“There are signs which give us assurance that
we are moving forward in desirable directions.
We see that striving in athletics is not toward
gold stars, or felt letters, or sports wearing ap-
parel, but toward the self-satisfaction and joy
from within which comes from being able to drive
a golf ball a greater distance, swim a few hun-
dred yards further, or jump some hurdles or
escape some physical danger through sheer ath-
letic ability in skill or endurance. We know that
the satisfaction which springs deep from within
is greater than any material rewards that last but
for the moment.”———Pattline B. Williamson.

“Tests show that the amusements which con-
tribute most to personality are those involving
activity and physical exercise. Therefore, let’s
have more fun! And if we acquire new habits
and skills in the process, and benefit both our
friends and ourselves, so much the better.”—

Henry C. Link in the Journal of Adult Educa-
tion, June 1939.

“Our stage of civilization is not going to de-
pend so much on what we do when we work as
what we do in our time off. The moral and spirit-
ual forces of our country do not lose ground in

the hours we are busy on our jobs. Their battle
time is the time of leisure.”—Herbert H oover.

486

“Recreation facilities provided under proper
supervision for the use of our youth can accom-
plish a great deal of good in molding the charac-
ters of children so as to assure fine, outstanding
citizens for posterity.”—]ohiz Edgar H oooer.

“In a school, play is truly one for all; the play
must go on and it must be good. Everything is
shared; competition is no more than that between
one’s right and left hand. It is the provision of
such situations in music, dramatics, forensics,
nature study, crafts, radio, and social service that
the new school content offers its brightest hopes.
The skills, habits and experiences, the feelings,
attitudes and social living among school children
should lead directly into adult practices and re-
sponsibilities.”—George D. Stoddard in Childhood
Education, October 1939.

“Art does affect the lives of men. It moves to
ecstasy, ‘thus giving color and movement to what
might otherwise be a rather grey and trivial af-
fair. Art for some makes life worth living.”—
Henry Adams in M ont-S airtt M'ichel and Chartres.

“We can’t think in terms of an'occasional ath—
letic star, an occasional boy reclaimed from de-
linquency, an individual artist encouraged here
and there. Our responsibility goes beyond that,
so to plan and program as to affect whole modes
of thought and patterns of living. We must think
of the carry-over into the community, the culture,
the folkways. We have to do that, just as we must
think of the carry-over into maturity and after
retirement, of interests capable of life-long en-

richment of outlook and purpose in the indi-

vidual. Leisure, interests, relationships, and ac-
complishments—these are the things that fix the
culture and determine the texture of life for
society no less than for individuals.”——V. K.
Brown, Chicago.

“It would seem that if we can be sure of any-
thing these days we can believe that all of the
processes of modern civilization point very di-
rectly toward an increasing amount of leisure for
which people must be adequately prepared if this
important time is to be used in wholesome and
constructive ways.”—f. W. Studebaker.

A Community Christmas Party

HRISTMAS time, perhaps
more than any other
holiday or season of the

year, is a time for a community—wide party. Few
' get—togethers are as eagerly anticipated by both
young and old.

In every case let it be a party providing for a
maximum amount of fun with a minimum ex—
penditure of time and effort. By the elimination
of those things which require a great deal of work
and expense, it can be a party devoid of hectic
last-minute preparations. At this time of the year
everyone is kept too busy with other numberless
tasks. Where there is work to be done, let as
many people in the community as possible share
in the responsibility.

Essential for a large Christmas party is a com—
munity hall, a recreation building room, a school
auditorium, or some meeting place where the
party can be held. Some care should be taken in
the selection of a chairman and other committee
members needed to look after SUCh details as
nnances, decorations, the tree, program features,
recreation period, and refreshments.

By CLARK L. FREDRIKSON
National Recreation Association

be a large one, invitations could
be printed on penny post cards
at a considerable saving in
both time and expense and decorated with tiny
gummed seals. Every attempt should be made to
have the invitations so Unique and striking that
everyone will scarcely be able to wait until the
party date. If, in your invitation, you plan to use

a bit of verse, the following may be suggestive.

Sister, brother, mom and pop,
Grandma, grandpa, and all the lot—

For an evening of fun and lots of good cheer,
Stop! Look! and lend a good ear.

Three nights before Christmas, the 22nd of December,

It’s a Friday night—be sure to remember.

For a Community Christmas Party is planned for that
night

And we hope you’ll come, for a good time is in sight.

Bring a dime gift for another, and see what you get,
’Twill make for a party that you’ll never forget.
The hour and the place are given below,

So you’ll know just when and where to go.

Decorations

Decorations add greatly to the spirit of the;_oc-
casion and a wealth of material awaits those re-

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
        
   

Invitations sponsible for them.

, The invitation will inevitably be __,, Christmas tree orna-
written or printed in red or green ink  ments used with greens,
on cut-outs of Christmas symbols  branches or wreaths of

evergreen or hemlock
tied with bows of red
satin or crepe paper,
holly boughs, candles,
bells or other seasonal

Holly wreaths, stars, bells, candles, =E§E
stockings, Santa Claus and yule logs, teen-3' 
offer a bewildering choice of subjects u. ;—_-——-1'~“-——
for such designs. If your party is to

 

.'il

l
{ from colored construction paper. —~--—._=:._—---1-.
l

-l
,I

ll.

 

   

j: I]
: than.

. ' 487

488 A COMJITUNITY CHRISTMAS PARTY

symbols placed about the room, may strike the
keynote of your party. Stars of different sizes
sprinkled with “glitter” and suspended by silver
string from light fixtures and ceiling are effective.
Colored bulbs in ceiling and spotlights can often
be especially helpful in getting seasonal effects.
Experiment to see what colored lights will do to
your party room.

Silhouettes or transparencies of Christmas
scenes and symbols constructed for illumination
are simple, effective and inexpensive methods by
which the atmosphere of Christmas is created.
These can be placed on mantels, in windows, un-
used doorways, and other corners of the hall.
Directions for their construction are included in
publications which are listed at the end of this

article.

A community Christmas tree, with green
branches richly trimmed with many colored elec—
tric bulbs and strings of popcorn and cranberries,
colored paper chains, apples highly polished, tis-
sue paper balls, and other homemade trimmings,
is certain to delight all. If in yOUr community
you are fortunate in having a living tree outside
the clubhouse, let the party guests decorate it with
due ceremony before going in for the regular
program.

Decorations should be as festive as possible, yet
inexpensive.

Mrs. St. Nick, Our Hostess

Who is better qualified than Mrs. St. Nick to
greet the party guests with a broad smile, hearty
handshake, and a cheery “Merry Christmas” as
they enter the party hall? Mrs. St. Nick, or her
helpers, hands each guest at small evergreen sprig
to which has been attached a bow of colored rib-
bon. It is essential that every guest be instructed
to wear the tiny corsage or boutonniere as the
color of the attached ribbon will determine which
team or group a player will join to take part in
competitive games and contests later in the eve-
ning. The number of different colored ribbons
used will be determined by the size of the party
and the number of players desired in each team
or group.

The ten cent gifts which guests were asked to
bring are also collected by the hostesses and later
placed at the base of the community tree for dis-
tribution. If the party is not a large one, guests
may be asked to hang their parcels carefully on
the branches of the tree. A ladder should be on

hand for the convenience of those who wish to
place them on higher branches.

If Mrs. St. Nick and her helpers are costumed
in red and green cambric dresses with white ker-
chiefs and aprons or other suitable garments, a
distinct and homey touch is added to the party.

Music

Christmas is the time for singing and there
should be opportunity during the evening, pref-
erably at the beginning of the party, for the sing—
ing of carols. This is one season of the year when
the impulse to sing takes hold of almost everyone,
and a small group. singing to piano accompaniment
is certain to attract the guests as they enter the
party hall. Telling the stories of the carols will
add to the interest and delight in singing them.

A simple tree lighting ceremony just prior to
the game program does much to bind all together
in the real spirit of the holiday.

Games, Stunts and Contests

Christmas Parade. For a large crowd where
there is.plenty of room, nothing is more mirth-
provoking than a grand march with numerous
variations. Everyone will want to join this jolly
parade. A primary requisite is to have someone
at the piano who will enter into the spirit of the
march and keep the crowd moving. The leader,
who stands on an elevated platform or stage, is
provided with a series of cards, each bearing in
large, bold, black letters one of the following
words: S-M-I-L-E, L-A-U-G—H, G-R-I-N-Grin,
HA—HA-HA-HA-HA, S-H-A-K-E, GO-AND-
SEE-A-FRIEN D, etc.

Two separate lines are formed on opposite sides
of the room—men on one side, women on the
other. All are facing the leader. The group is
taught the following verse which is sung to the
tune of “The Battle Hymn of the Republic.”

It isn’t any trouble just to S-M-I-L—E
It isn’t any trouble just to S-M-I-L-E
For if there’s any trouble

It will vanish like a bubble

If you only take the trouble
Just to S-M-I-L-E.

When all are familiar with the words they join
in the singing of the song and proceed to march

in the opposite direction from that which they "

were facing. Leaders of each line meet at the end
and center of the room, join hands and march
toward the elevated platform. As they sing.
S-M-I—L-E when holding the hand of a partner, .
each person turns to his partner and smiles.

 

Players separate when they
reach the platform, turn right
and left, and again march
single file down the sides of
the room-———men on one side,
women on the other. They
again meet at the center and
opposite end of the room and
join hands with their original
partners.

Other grand march figures
—four' and eight abreast,
circle countermarch, three

A COMAJUNITY CHRISTJWAS PARTY

In arranging this party program. which
is best adapted to the use of a large
community group. the attempt has been
made to select a variety of games and
activities enjoyable and interesting to
all. Some of the suggestions are new;
others are old but done up in new "gift
packages." It is hoped that many will
be found novel and amusing. The games
have been so arranged that when it be-
comes necessary to change from one to
another it can be done without confu-
sionI long delays. and complete reorgan-
ization. Don't try to use every game
suggested. but select those which will
best meet your particular program needs.

489

ners business men who have
just put through an urgent
telephone call but on getting
their party discover that the
operator has given them the
wrong number. At this holi-
day time what could be more
appropriate than to have the
men impersonate sales clerks,
and the women housewives
who, on returning from their
shopping, discover only eleven
Christmas tree ornaments in

and one, and arches could be
included in the parade. But
this is not half of the fun, for at any moment the
leader may hold up one of the other lettered cards
when players are in couple formation. If it hap-
pens to be L-A—U-G-H players continue singing
as usual and substitute the word for S-M—I-L-E.
Not only must they substitute the new word for
the old, but also the laughing that goes with it.
The players will have probably reached the HA-
HA-HA-HA-HA stage long before that particu-
lar card instructs them to do it! Try it just the
same, for everyone will enjoy “HA—HA—ing” to
music.

When the card bearing the word S-H-A-K-E
goes up, partners shake hands with each other
every time they sing the word. On “GO-AND-
SEE-A-FRIEND,” men move forward one place
and take the arm of a new lady. The first man
proceeds to join the last lady in line. The fre-
quent display of this card will result in new part—
ners and this is highly desirable.

Impersonations. For this game there must be a
double circle with the men on the outside facing
in, the women on the inside, facing the men. The
men are told that they are first of all to imagine
themselves as small boys visiting the toy depart-
ment of a large store with their mothers, whose
parts are taken by all of the women. On a given
signal from the leader partners begin to talk to
each other. Each person will have individual
ideas as to what he will say and will no doubt
work out a character of his own and add many
action details fitting the character assigned to him.
At a signal players stop talking, and bid their
partners goodbye. Men then move on to the next
lady at their right, extend holiday greetings, and
introduce themselves.

Players now become other make-believe char-
acters—-—~the girls telephone operators, their part-

place of twelve for which
they had paid!

Find Your Partner and Stoop. Couples form a
circle facing counter-clockwise, with girls in the
inner circle. To march music all walk or skip in
the same direction. When a whistle is blown
either the men or women, as instructed by the
leader, march in the opposite direction. When the
leader calls “Snow Storm” each player, regard-
less of where he is, runs to his original partner;
they join hands, and both stoop. The last couple
to stoop may be instructed to pay a forfeit.
Couples again fall back into the line of original
march. The men, on command, bid their old part-
ners “farewell,” move up one place, and introduce
themselves to a new lady. Either the inside or
outer circle are later instructed to change their
direction of march, find their partners, fall back
into the circle and proceed to a new partner. This
is again repeated.

Greet Your Neighbors. All of the guests and
the leader join hands in one large circle. The
leader turns to the person on his right, shakes
hands, and says “Merry Christmas.” He con-
tinues walking counter-clockwise around the in-
side of the circle and shakes hands with every
third person. The person whose hand was shaken
goes to the third person to his left and greets him
with a “Merry Christmas.” When everyone is
drawn into shaking hands, start a new game.
Christmas music should accompany this mixer. If
those in attendance at the party are not acquainted
with one another, insist that they introduce them-
selves after exchanging holiday greetings.

Poison Snowball. Players stand in a circle. Balls
made of cotton are distributed among the players,
the number used depending upon the size of the
crowd. At a given signal the balls are passed
around the circle, to the right, from one player to
another. The leader stands on the outside of the

490 A COMZMUNITY CHRISTMAS PARTY

circle with his back to the players, or in the center
with his eyes covered. At intervals he blows a
whistle. Those players holding snowballs at the
moment the whistle is blown are eliminated. They
step into the center of the circle and are asked to
follow the snowballs and help settle any disputes
arising as to just who of the remaining players
was holding a ball when the whistle blew. The
fun of the game depends on quick playing with
intervals of varying length and signals that are
sharp and decisive.

Christmas Drama. This offers possibilities for
some side-splitting fun. A person is selected and
given instructions on how to read Clement C.
Moore’s poem, “A Visit from St. Nicholas,”
which begins, “’Twas the night before Christ-
mas, when all through the house.” Characters are
chosen to act out the story in pantomime as it is
being read. The stunt may be quickly and easily
prepared; however, its effect is improved by giv-
ing some attention to such details as entrances,
exits, and costumes. The reader should be care-
fully selected and instructed to read the poem
very slowly. This enables the actors to dramatize
the story more effectively.

"Round the Christmas Tree"

 

1. Here we go round the Christmas tree, two by two
Here we go round the Christmas tree, two by two
Here we go round the Christmas tree, two by two

Merry Christmas all.

l\)

Merry Christmas all.

3. You are a very fine baby doll,* yes siree
You are a very fine baby doll, yes siree
You are a very fine baby doll, yes siree
Merry Christmas all.

* teddy bear
choc-ch00 train
spinning top
drummer boy
hobby horse

. Let’s look at all the Christmas toys, two by two
Let’s look at all the Christmas toys, two by two
Let’s look at all the Christmas toys, two by two

The formation for this game is a circle of
couples, with the men on the inside. All face in
one direction with inside hands joined. One couple
stands in the center of the circle. During the sing-
ing of the first verse all march counter-clockwise.
The couple inside the circle also sing and jauntin
walk about. During the second verse all of the
players, with the exception of the center couple,
form a single large circle facing center and stand
still. The couple standing in the middle of the
circle imitate the action of some Christmas toy,
such as a stiff-jointed baby doll. On the third
verse all players march in a circle counter-clock-
wise in a single file. They imitate the action of
the center couple. During this verse the center
couple select a new couple to take their place. The
song is repeated with the action of other toys
being substituted. There are prancing horses and
a whole array of frollicking animals. It is a gay
parade, for the toys not only march but run,
dance, and skip. A small decorated tree placed in
the center of the circle would be particularly
appropriate.

Back to Back. The party guests are each handed
ten beans and told to scatter around the playing
floor. With the ringing of a loud bell each
player must find a partner of the opposite
sex with whom to stand back to back.
Those failing to secure partners must
forfeit one bean, which is dropped into a
kettle fastened to a tripod standing in the
center of the room. Players failing to get
partners again compete for partners when
the leader rings the bell signaling all to
find a new “back.”

This will all but create a riot, particu—
larly where there are more men than 1
women, or vice versa, and when changes ‘
take place frequently. The one who has
the least number of beans at the end of
the game is the loser.

The Lost Christmas Cord. Before the

guests arrive, cut several balls of inex-
pensive colored Christmas wrapping
string into small lengths and hide them
all over the party hall. Players are told
to hunt for the cord in couples. As they
find the pieces they are tied together at
one end. At a designated time the couple
with the longest string are declared the
winners. The amount of cord to be cut-
up and hidden will naturally depend upon

A COMIITUNITY CHRISTMAS PARTY 491

the number of people attending the party. Cau—
tion! Make it clear that the pieces of string are
hidden in plain view and that one will not have
to move or uncover things to find them. Hide a
single short piece of gold cord. The couple having
it at the close of the game is awarded a small prize.

Spell lem! Two sets of large white alphabet
cards are prepared——-one in green letters and the
other in red. Omit letters Q, X, and Z. The
guests are divided into two teams—“men on one
side, women on the other. A set of the letters is
given each team and distributed among their
players.

The leader stands at the front of the room and
calls out a word, for example, "candy." Players
on each team who have the letters C-A-N-D-Y
hurry to the front of their half of the room, stand
in a line facing the audience, and hold up their
cards so as to spell out the word correctly. The
team finishing first scores one point. After each
word has been spelled correctly players return to
their places and hand the card to someone who
has none.

The leader should prepare in advance a list of
words so that the same letter does not appear
more than once in the word. A few suggested
words are: candle, dancing, game, gift, ice,
Nicholas, orange, skating, snow, star, stocking
and tinsel.

Relays

We have now reached that part of the program
where all those wearing sprigs of evergreen with
tiny bows of red ribbon are asked to assemble in
one corner of the room, those having blue in an—
other, and so on. A leader is chosen in each group
who in turn selects teams and individuals to take
part in the competitive relays which follow. The
number of players called for each relay will vary
according to the event and the number of indi—
viduals present at the party. Points may be given
to the winners of each event. If a blackboard is
available, use it for keeping the score.

A Boxing Match. Players are in single file, relay
formation, three feet apart. The first player of
each team is handed a Christmas package of the
same size, wrapped in similar paper, and tied with
equal lengths of heavy cord or ribbon. At the
starting signal the first player unwraps the parcel
and passes it, together with the paper and cord to
the player next in line. The second player re-
wraps the package and hands it to the third in

line. This procedure continues until all have re-
peated the performance of wrapping or unwrap-
ping the parcel. Should the boxes, paper and
string be in one piece at the end ! Well!

Decorating the Tree. Teams of equal numbers
line up side by side behind the starting line. One
representative from each group stands at a dis-
tance of about twenty-five feet directly in front
of his team and facing it. He is referred to as
“the tree in need of holiday dress.” The players of
each group are then provided with trimmings for
a Christmas tree—either a string of popcorn, tin-
sel, bells, candles, strips of colored crepe paper,
pins, or other ornaments. The same amount and
kind of material should be handed each competing
group. On a given signal the first player of each
team runs to his “tree” and pins or hangs his
ornament. He returns to the starting point and
touches off the second player in line, who then goes
forward. The procedure continues until all have
placed their objects on the “trees.” Let the audi-
ence determine which team has the most artisti-
cally decorated “tree.”

 

Santa Special Delivery. Players of each team
line up one behind the other in back of a starting
line. Each group is handed a sugar sack or pillow
slip containing ten tied, empty paper cartons. At
the starting signal the first player of each team
picks up the sack and starts for a goal line some
distance away. At each of ten designated spots
along the way, “Santa leaves a Christmas gift.”
On reaching the goal line with his empty sack he
returns to the starting point. The empty bag is
handed to the second player in line. He starts
toward the goal line picking up and placing in the
bag each of the ten gifts deposited by the player
of his team who preceded him. On reaching the
goal line “Santa” returns to the starting line with
his “heavy pack" and hands it to the third player.
He deposits the gifts on his journey. The fourth
player picks them up. This performance is re—
peated until all have taken part.

Add to the hilarity of the game by providing
the teams with an inexpensive Santa Claus beard
which each player is requested to wear on his
hurried jaunt.

Snowball Rolling. Teams of equal numbers are
selected to represent groups participating. Ar—
range players five feet apart in relay formation.
Pieces of string five feet in length are handed each
person. On the word to begin the first player in
each line starts to wind his string into a ball. As

492 A COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS PARTY

soon as he has finished winding he securely
fastens his string to one end of the piece held by
the second person in line. The second player
winds his piece of string to the ball and passes it
on to the third in line. This procedure is repeated
until the last player has wound his string on the
growing snowball. The line finishing first wins

the game.

Christmas Shopping Relay. This is a game that
one would probably term a “snap” after days of
real and hectic Christmas shopping!

Players of each team line up one behind the
other in relay formation. Directly in front of the
first player on each team place an equal number
of packages of different shapes and sizes. There
should be enough of them so that one will have
some difficulty in conveniently carrying them all
at the same time. The first contestant of each
team, at a given signal, picks up all of the parcels
in front of him and carries them to a goal line and
back. If any of the packages are dropped on his
tOUr, he mUSt stop to pick them up before pro-
ceeding. On returning to the starting point the
parcels are dropped at the feet of the second
player in line, who in turn picks them up, with—
out assistance, and proceeds to the goal line and
back. Remaining players repeat the performance.
Team finishing first wins.

Snow Sform. Line up competing contestants
from each team behind a starting line. Each per-
son is provided with a downy snow-white feather.
At a signal the first player blows his feather to a
designated goal line. On reaching it the second
starts to blow his feather toward the same
goal. The performance is repeated by all.
A whirling snow storm it will be, with the
long-winded surviving! You may want
to require the contestants to get down
on their hands and knees if their
feather should drop to the floor.

 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 

Chrisfmas Hoop Race. A single file relay with
members of each team standing three feet apart
and facing in one direction. The equipment for
each team consists of a barrel hoop wound with
red or green crepe paper. On a given signal each
player in turn goes through the hoop, either plac-
ing the hoop over his head and stepping out of it,
or stepping into the hoop and bringing it over the
head. The hoop is then handed to the next in line.
The team finishing first wins. This game can be
lengthened by having the hoops passed up and
down each line a number of times.

Let’s Act.

Allow each group a short period of time to pre-
pare a dramatization, pantomime, tableau, or cha-
rade based on a Christmas carol. The whole SOng,
the title, or just a few words of it may be used in
depicting the carol. The picturing of these songs
may be amusing or serious, simple or elaborate.
Bundles of old newspapers and packages of pins
(nothing more) are used to advantage in hur—
riedly making costumes. Groups in turn are in—
vited to stage their skit. Other groups are to guess
what the carol is and start singing it as soon as
they think they are correct.

St. Nick Arrives

At every yuletide party there should be an ami-
able old St. Nick, whose appearance is heralded
with all due ceremony. He frequently enters
thrOUgh a make-believe chimney with fireplace.
Let his appearance this year, however, be in the
nature of a real surprise. If there is a balcony,
arrange for him to come through an accessible
window or door. Let someone in the audience vol—
unteer to get a ladder so that he can descend.
What excitement will result if, between each

deliberate step, he stops to wave to those in the

audience! After St. Nick’s arrival, guests are
asked to form in line one behind the other,

(Continued on page 526)

 

 

 

A City Celebrates Christmas in Drama

ORE THAN thirty religious, '
music, and civic organiza-

7 tions joined in Atlanta to
revive the annual Christmas pag—
eant formerly presented by the
city. The pageant for 1938, “The Divine Promise,’
was written by Eugene  Bergmann, Drama Con-
sultant for the Georgia “7 PA Recreation Division.

The script was divided into two parts, the first
depicting scenes from Old Testament history, be-
ginning with the Creation of the “’orld, and clos-
1ing with. the prophesy of the Birth of Christ. This
first section was in fourteen scenes, several of
them elaborate and colorful court scenes and
Iprocessionals.

' The second part of the pageant told the story
,of the nativity in eight scenes, beginning with the
Annunciation and ending with the scene at the

Manger of the Christ Child. This Finale of the
‘production was the most elaborate scene, charac-

iterized by a processional through the area of the
auditorium by a chorus of three hundred children
idressed in white vestments.

: The stage setting for the entire pageant was a
series of nine parallels or small stages at various
heights, connected by steps to permit movement

.-from one level to another. Removable properties

9

By J. LEE HARNE, JR.
Director of Recreation
Department of Parks

Atlanta. Georgia

and special lighting effects were
used in depicting the various
scenes.

Approximately fifteen hundred
persons composed the chorus,
cast, and technical staff of the production. Ap-
propriate music was sung throughout the dramatic
sequence by a chorus of one hundred and fifty
voices. There were one thousand and seventy
costumed characters in the pantomime cast. All
speaking was done over a public address system.
The lines of the principal characters were read by
a microphone cast of seven persons who stood on
platforms located down stage, right and left, and
each line was coordinated with the action and ges-
tures of the character to whom it referred. This
plan proved to be most satisfactory, and it elimi-
nated the necessity for memorizing lines.

A crowd estimated at eight thousand persons
saw the initial performance on a Sunday after-
noon after more than three thousand had been
turned away because there were no seats; in fact,
there was no standing room available. The eve-
ning performance the next day attracted seven
thousand more persons to the auditorium. It is
impossible even to estimate how many heard the

(Continued on page 527)
403

Modernizing the Christmas Legend

ESIDENTS of Cedar Rapids,
R Iowa, have found the in-

ward pleasure and satisfac—
tion that results from the out—
ward display of Christmas greetings to their fel-
lowmen. In other words, they have modernized
the legend of the Christmas candle. Most of you
know this story about Christmas. People in some
parts of the world believe that it is true. And
whether we can quite believe it or not, we will
all agree it is a beautiful story that has given us
a lovely custom to add to the things that we do on
Christmas.

You remember how, on the night when Jesus
was born, nobody would give room for Him in
any home, so that His father and mother had to
find a place in a stable and had to lay the 'baby in
a manger for a cradle. This story is that on every
Christmas Eve the little Christ-child goes all over
the world, over all the streets of the cities, along
all the country roads, passing every beautiful
house of the richest people and every poor house,
too, looking always to see whether people are will-
ing to let Him come in. And people who believe
this story believe, too, that those who really want
to invite Him set a lighted candle in the window
of their homes to guide Him on His way. But
sometimes, they say, He comes in the guise of
some hungry person, or some lonely person who
needs help in some other way—and if they really
want to serve the Christ—child they give what they
can to the ones that come‘in His name.

This simple little story of a Christmas custom
suggested a new and attractive activity to the
Recreation Commission. What would be more
cheerful than a city in which every home showed
an invitation in light to the passerby———-a city where
the custom of the Christmas candle was modern-
ized with electricity! It indeed seemed to suggest
a new service which could be enjoyed by all, the
young and old, the rich and
poor alike.

In order to get the idea
started and obtain the inter—
est of the residents it was
decided that a contest would
be the quickest and sim-
plest method. The local light
and power company, which

494

By NEVIN NICHOLS

Superintendent of Recreation
Cedar Rapids. Iowa

Turn no one from your door this night
In country land or crowded town.
ForI know you not? on Christmas Eve

The Christ-child wanders up and down.

Or rich. or poor, if you can help.

Turn none away with careless frownI
Whate'er His guise. this very night

The Christ-child wanders up and down.

was approached, became the co-
sponsors of the _ plan providing
five I.E.S. floor lamps of propor-
tional value for prizes. The local
newspaper was generous in its c00peration run-
ning two or three articles each week for the three
weeks preceding Christmas. These articles always
included the rules of the contest as well as a con-
pon entry blank.

The presidents of three civic organizations were
asked to appoint a judge from each of their or-
ganizations. These three judges were transported
about the city one evening between Christmas and
New Year’s to view the displays and grade them.
There were no separate classifications of homes
according to valuation or size, but all were en-
tered in the one class and the points upon which
they were udged were so planned as to give eqUal
recognition to all.

On Christmas Eve when the entries were closed
the newspaper printed a route to be followed by
those who wished to drive about the city viewing
the displays. Every home entered was included
in this route.

Contest rules were kept to a minimum so as not
to be confusing and to encourage originality. They
are as follows:

I. Only private homes within the corporate limits

of the city of Cedar Rapids are eligible to com-

pete. (This was to be a civic enterprise.)

Homes must be lighted between seven and ten y

every evening between December 24th and }

December 3Ist. Allows time for all who wishi
to view the displays.) 

3. All displays must be on the exterior of the1
home, or readily visible from the street, to gain-
the recognition of the judges. (Judges’ time 
would not allow for entering each home.)

4. Entries may be mailed or telephoned to the:
Recreation Office. (A central registration piace. I

most efficient.)

5. The deadline for entries
is 12 o’clock noon, De-
cember 24. (Gives a
chance for those who
decorate late to get in.)

6. Only private residences
are eligible to compete.

(Continued on page 527)

go

The Progress of Dearborn

HE SUMMER of 1938 marked
Ttwo events of importance to
Dearborn, Michigan, citizens.
First, there was the 100th anni-
versary of the incorporation of the Village of
Dearbornville; and second, Henry Ford, their
“small-town boy who made good,” was celebrat-
ing his 75th birthday. At a joint meeting of the
Dearborn Day Committee, the City Council, and
the Recreation Commission, it was decided to pay
tribute to the town’s first citizen and commemo-
rate the incorporation of Dearborn at the same
time, with one all-day program.
During the day they planned races and contests
of all kinds for children, with attractive prizes
provided for the winners by the Recreation De-

partment. There was a softball game and an ama-.

teur show put on by young-
sters from the playgrounds.
The evening was to be ended
with a huge display of fire-

By IRIS BECKER

Director. Historical Pageant
Department of Recreation

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ford viewing the
historical pageant which portrayed
the progress made by Dearborn during
the hundred years of its existence

works. Then came the question
of the evening’s entertainment.
It was decided to put on a pag-
eant depicting the history of
Dearborn, dating back to the arrival of the first
white settlers. And since no history of the com-
munity could be authentic otherwise, the spectacle
was to re-enact the life of Henry Ford.

So the people of Dearborn put on a pageant.
It was one of those “colossal, stupendous” things
which everybody works on, and in the confusion
and bustle of rehearsals, swears, “Never again.”
After the performance the same persons say, “\Ve
ought to do something like this every year."

I am setting down, therefore, some of our
happy and sadder experiences, hoping they may
be of use to others finding themselves in our posi-
tion. In the first place, the
pageant had to be written, or—
ganized. and produced within
a period of less than a month.

 

496 THE PROGRESS OF DEARBORN

The first thing we had to do was find out how
much historical material Dearborn possessed; and
secondly, we had to discover the best form to
which it could be adapted. We found plenty of
fascinating information (and so can any city with
an appreciable number of anniversaries), but it
had to be culled and written into usable form.

Our sources of material were numerous. We
used the public library extensively, private libra-
ries to some extent, and private pictures and data
collections a great deal. The files of the local
paper were invaluable. But the most interesting
highlights came from the memories of old timers
and their families; we ferreted out as many of
these stories as we could in a short time. Our
composition committee worked on these ideas in-
tensively for six days and drew up the general
outline of episodes and the rough version of a
narrative. In this form our plans were presented
to an all-city committee of over thirty persons,
who accepted our ideas enthusiastically. The pur-
pose behind the celebration appealed to them; the
material of the pageant held special interest; and,
though the time seemed much too short for such
a tremendous project, it wasn‘t going to take too
much of the summer to produce.

These factors illustrate some important points
about civic projects. They should always have a
legitimate and interesting purpose; the material
should be sufficient and have city-wide appeal.
Much more time than we had should be spent on
the preparation of script, but actual organization
time should be short and snappy so that the event
will not go stale.

In a general form, what we presented to this
committee was an outline of the history of Dear-
born in a prologue and ten acts, from the seven-
teenth century to the present day. The prologue,
entitled “Northwestern Territory,” told of the
first white settlers. The subjects of the episodes
were: Ten Eyck Tavern, The Arsenal, Pre-Civil
War Period, Michigan Central Railroad Fire,
Henry Ford’s Boyhood and Youth, The First
Horseless Carriage Visits Dearborn, Patriotism
and Industry, Cultural Progress, Consolidation,
Dearborn—Present and FutUre.

. This program was to be not strictly a pageant
in the old style, but a combination of dialogue and
pantomime set to narrative. Through the public
address system we could make use of spoken dia-
logue to add naturalness and variety to the show.

.Gomg into the second week, our general com-

nuttee was divided into specific committees. These

central committee members represented as many
groups and organizations in the city as possible, in
order to have everyone interested in the produc-
tion of the pageant. A list of our committees in-
dicates the scope of the work that had to be done:
casting, directing, costuming, make-up, staging,
lighting, properties, sound, publicity, dancing,
music, composition and narration.

The idea for the stage had been roughly mapped
out, and the job was to adapt the story episodes
in order to get the most natural and efficient use
of all parts of the huge stage, which Was to be
185 feet in length. This was necessary because
the stage was in the Elizabethan style on a giant
scale. Finally the episodes were written so that
we could alternate the use of the three parts of
the stage.

Casting was taken over by those who knew the
personnel of the many civic groups of Dearborn.
In as much as our cast had grown to gigantic pro-

portions, over 700 in all, these people chose speak-

. ing characters only. They also chose a director

for each episode, met with these directors, and
helped them find characters for the rest of their
casts.~. As far as possible, directors were assigned
to groups with which they were somewhat
familiar. For example, the directors of the pro-
logue used the St. Alphonsus Catholic Church
group and the Isaak Walton League because they-
themselves were members of those groups. Each
episode of the pageant was rehearsed separately
under the direction of these leaders, and then the
episodes were coordinated in the final production.

W'omen’s clubs, service clubs, church groups,
playgrounds, and The Player’s Guild of Dearborn
contributed actors and actresses as well as com-
mittee workers. The Allied Veterans’ Council,
helped with the military phase, and the Isaak;
Walton League contributed very convincing In—
dians. In many cases it was possible to include
citizens in parts played in real life by their an—
cestors. For instance, in the scene which showed
the burning of the Michigan Central station, the
man whose father was the original station agent
(who called the engines from Detroit to fight the
Ere) played that role in the pageant. These and
many others were hard at work, and our only
regret is that we did not have time to put more:
people to work on this community tribute to our.I
early settlers and pioneers. J

Costuming was a tremendous job and never
could have been done without an efficient costume
chairman and committee. Again, each episode was

THE PROGRESS OF DEA KB 0 RN 497

 

Attics and collections' stores and

handled separately with a sort
of central commissary. Our
sources for costumes were at-
tics. collections, stores, sewing groups, costume
shops—and ingenuity. A great many clothes were
loaned to us. It was gratifying to discover how
many of the citizens had stored away the clothes
belonging to their grandparents. Department
stores loaned us some, as well as did sewing
grotlps and individuals who wanted to have some
part in the production of the pageant. The cast
members, in several instances, were able to secure
their own costumes. In the end, a very small per-

centage—-—only the most difficult and unusual—-—-had
to be rented.

In an attempt to keep the setting as authentic
as possible, we had to study buildings and fur—
iiture of the periods to be represented. Mr. Ford
authorized the use of furniture and other articles
on display in the museum of the Edison Institute
for the purpose of lending the correct historical
atmosphere to numerous scenes in the pageant.

costume shops. sewing groups and in-
genuity provided the costumes used!

For make-up, we made use
of the talent in local dramatic
groups. To this we added one
hired professional for lead character make-ups.

The dancing which was part of several episodes
was handled separately by dancing teachers who
contributed their services, and by recreation and
playground groups. Edison Institute boys and
girls, citizens interested in early American dances,
and the director did the rest.

We used two types of music—orchestral and
vocal—to set and portray the moods. The first
was provided by an orchestra of professional
musicians. The 150 boys and girls who made up
the chorus were from playgrounds and from the
Edison Institute Chorus. The group was directed
by a man from the Edison Institute.

Publicity, of course, was handled by the Recre-
ation Department and the local papers, through
historical accounts of the early days of Dearborn,
news stories, and advertisements. We discovered

(Continued on. page 528)

Recreation for Public School Teachers

UBLIC SCHOOL TEACHERS. with their heavy
P teaching load and extracurricular activities,

have many problems standing in the way of
their personal recreational activities. The Recrea-
tion Department of the Kansas City Public
Schools and the Teachers College, recently co—
operating in an effort to serve these teachers in a
definite way, sent out a questionnaire to all teach-
ers in the system. The questionnaire had a dual
purpose: first. to enable the Recreation Depart-
ment to provide a program of varied recreation
activities, passive and active, set up in accordance
with the capabilities and desires of the teachers;
second, to make it possible for KanSas City Teach—
ers College to offer in their extension classes any
type of physical education and recreation courses
desired by the majority of teachers.

In substance, the questionnaire asked for the
following: the assigned school, grade or depart-
ment, living quarters (hotel, apartment, boarding
house, private home), amount of money spent in
the current year for doctor bills with a note _as to
whether this amount was unusual or average. In
an attempt to secure a starting place from which
to develop a recreation program, many activities
were listed, with the suggestion that the teacher
underline those activities engaged in once in a
while, underlining twice those activities partici-
pated in frequently. Other queries were included
on the subject of home recreation, activities away
from home, reasons why the individual did not
engage in leisure time activities, recreation pro-
gram the teacher desired to have the Recreation
Department promote and the type of courses de-
sired at Teachers College.

The return of these blanks was entirely op—
tional, but in spite of this fact more than fifty per
cent of the teachers made complete reports. They
realized that they must recreate themselves men-
tally, physically, and emotionally, in order to be
able to give their best service to the school system.

The returns proved to be quite interesting. It
was found that fifty per cent of those making re-
turns were living at home, twelve and one-half
per cent resided in private homes, twenty-five per
cent in apartments or hotels, while the remaining
twelve and one-half per cent rented homes or
lived in boarding houses. The reports disclosed
that individual doctor hills ran from an average

498

By LES L. WARREN
Kansas City, Missouri

Mr. Warrenl Director of Recreation and

Community Use of Schools. believes that
each of the city's teachers is entitled
to a program of personal recreation of

his own choosing. made up of activities
which he enioys. and he tells how
Kansas City is trying to achieve this

of $30.50 per year to an unusual $125.00. \Vhen
we had thus classified the group which we were to
serve, we turned to the activities in which they
participated.

Activities In and Out of the Home

Activities engaged in frequently at home
emerged in the following order: radio, reading
(fiction and non-fiction), entertaining, cooking,
card playing, music, writing, photography, gar-
dening, needlework, woodcraft, antique collecting,
and stamp collecting. Activities infrequently en-

j oyed at home were headed by card playing (listed
here by over half of the teachers), followed by
radio, gardening, cooking, reading, needlework,
writing, entertaining, and music. Other activities
which received few votes ran all the way from r
making scrap books, Chinese checkers, walking,
poultry raising. and interior decorating, to letter
writing, astronomy and other such activities. It
is interesting to note that four of the first five
activities on the first list coincide with four out of
five on the second list.

Activities participated in most often away from
home were listed in this fashion: card playing,
picnics, movies, dancing, parties, swimming, music,
hiking, nature study, riding, golf, tennis, and fish- - .
ing. Those activities engaged in once in a while ‘
away from home were: picnics, card playing. hik-
ing, swimming, parties, boating, nature study, fish—
ing, camping, tennis, riding, dancing, and skating. li
Proving these activities most popular, four activi- ’
ties of the first six on each list are identical. Other
things interesting the teachers included: concerts,

(Continued on page 529)

January First—Hospitality Day!

Have you ever tried keeping Christmas a

just-

for-the-family" day with New Year’s reserved
for the entertainment of relatives and friends?

HRISTMAS DAY is always the traditional time
C for a family party. You exchange your
gifts, parade in the ones which can be “tried
on.” admire the glittering Christmas tree, listen to
brother’s eXplanations of how he can switch the
electric train to another track and watch him as he
proudly puts the train through its antics, enjoy
sister’s confidences about her narrow escape when
someone happened into a room just as she was
tying up his gift. However, all the little anecdotes
about Christmas shopping are almost lost in the
rush of cleaning up the tissue paper and ribbons
knee deep on the floor, getting the turkey in the
oven and scurrying around in the myriad prepara-
tions necessary “before the company comes” for
the big family dinner.

You are glad to see your aunts, uncles, and
cousins, but your little private Christmas seems
almost lost in the rush. They, too, probably feel
that the haste with which they had to go through
their own Christmas morning festivities in order
I to arrive on time has robbed them of part of their
celebration! While these thoughts are forgotten
l in shouting “Merry Christmas” through the open
door, subconsciously you feel just a little bit
I cheated.

a Instead of a big Christmas dinner, why not keep

4 Christmas Day for an intimate family party and
gather your relatives on New Year's Day, when
the Christmas celebrations are over? There’ll still
be a Christmas tree and holly wreaths to add fes-
tive touches and provide lots of Christmas spirit.

Why Not an “Open House”?

For example, announce an “open house” for
friends and relatives on the afternoon of New
Year's Day. W’hen the guests arrive, between
three and four o’clock, they find the traditional
holly wreath tied with a big red bow on the front
door knocker; and inside, tiny wreaths hanging
from the light nxtures and on the lamp shades,

~ and mistletoe fastened with narrow red ribbon to
: the door frames. Above the wreath decorating the
fireplace, they discover on the mantel a miniature

village half buried in snow. Of course the snow
is simply cotton placed across the mantel and hang-
ing over the edges in an uneven line to create the
illusion. The village houses are the kind bought in
the five-and-ten to place in the yard under the
Christmas tree. Above the village, and reaching
in a semicircle almost to the ceiling, is a wooden
frame with heavy blue paper over it to provide the
backdrop of a blue sky. The narrow width of the
strips of wood is placed against the wall so that
the paper sky is about two or three inches away
from it. The arrangement is like the lid of a box
—the sides made of wood covered with paper and
the top composed of the paper forming the sky.
Your guests won’t be interested in games at
once. A series of games would disrupt the jovial,
informal atmosphere of a gathering where your
friends and relatives have merely dropped in for a
visit—after all, this is what an open house means
——so let them wander about and talk to one an-
other for an hour. Above all, you mustn’t let
your open house assume the aspects of a planned
party. The planning .is always behind-scenes.

About five o’clock you’ll want to set up bridge
tables in the living room and hand out the “pro-
grams.” Make these yourself by typing or printing
on colored paper, light blue, cream-colored or
green. Fold an 8%XII sheet horizontally and then
again vertically, and write your greeting on the
outside. Inside, on the left, you might have a
little game for the guests to play while the food
is being assembled on the dining room table for a
buffet supper. It may be a scrambled menu which
each person must decipher before he is allowed to
go into the dining room. A sample menu might

read like this :

kah‘bemad eshece wuverstril

stoghod dan slorl kabde saben

tapoot pichs
lyceer clipesk dufefts selvio
shaderis
abder tubret

kitcufear curifupt

trawe ligergane foceef
sunt

499

500 JANUARY FIRST--—HOSPITALITY DA Y!

Of course the food is:

baked ham cheese
hot dogs and rolls
potato chips

liverwurst
baked beans

celery pickles stuffed olives
radishes
bread butter
fruitcake fruitcup
water ginger ale coffee
nuts

The names of the guests you invited might be
traced into the outline of a Christmas or New
Year’s bell which is pasted or drawn on the right

hand side.
Or, if you want a particular theme to carry

through the program, you might try a “Specially
Planned New Year’s Flight.” Your program

might look something like this on the outside:

Specially Planned New Year’s Flight
. . . . . . . . (your name). . . . . .AIRPORT
January First
Preliminary take-off at 3 P. M.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., Manager *

WI§
E?

N
E
E
E
E
M

(if:
-WWEEW

WEEW

WWW
HE*

E

EAST AND \VEST RL'NW'AY
1 joyous
5 exhibits (old form)
1” operatic melody
12 prophetic Sign
13 tribe of Indians

26 to receive cordially

30 paid (abbreviation)

32 South American humming
bird (plural)

33 preposition

1-4 recent 34 pronoun
16 article (French feminine 36 preposition
form) 37 to taste

17 mo sale (abbreviation) 38 to disclose

18 to arrange in rows 40 cuts off
2O of (French) 41 relaxes
21 cavalryman 42 dwelling

23 period of time
24 Color

mean “HEW
§HW aa

 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .., Generally Manager

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., Hostess

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .., Airport Superintendent
*also in full charge of Commissary Department

Final Take-OE
will be delayed until the latest possible moment

Your list of “passengers” could be written on the
back cover. Across the inside are the words, “This
test must be passed before you test the repast.”
A cross word puzzle on the right side is labeled
“plan of the airfield.” If you use the cross word
puzzle given, write underneath it the instructions,
“Compose a suitable New Year’s sentiment from
words in the above.” Two phrases the guests will
discover in the puzzle are “Welcome to our open
house,” and “Happy New Year.”

The definitions of words to be placed in the
squares horizontally are labeled “EAST AND WEST
RUNWAY,” and the vertical set, “NORTH AND
SOUTH RUNWAY.” The puzzle will look like thiS'

{‘7' W
I§§

HEW WE? HEW

HHIW
WEE'

WEWE
EHHEW

awas-
a

an

NORTH AND SOUTH RUNWAY

l to visit persistently 21 moisture condensing from

2 craft (plural) atmosphere

3 dessert 22 denoting former name

4 parent 25 trace of wiid animal

6 a call to attract attention 27 to impede motion

7 Ostrich-like Australian bird 28 aside from a main track

8 to go 29 group of trees

9 grimace of contempt 31 to deceive

11 thick mass of ice 33 kilts

14 almost 35 the thing (Latin) .

15 to entreat earnestly 37 French coin equal to

18 hillsides (Scotch) one cent

19 legless crawling animal 39 not (contraction)
(plural) 40 behold

(Continued on. page 530)

l

1

Athletics for Industrial Workers

N APRIL 20, 1939, the Newark Evening

News carried the following item: “The

twenty-five teams that played through the
Newark Recreation Industrial League at \Nest
Side High School were honored at a banquet at-
tended by 300 men. Thomas J. Ryan, of the
Benjamin Moore Company was toastmaster, and
Francis J. Meehan, prominent sportsman and at-
torney; James Dougan, assistant superintendent
of schools; Supervisors Ernest J. Seibert, Louis
A. Canarelli and Vincent Farrell, League Di-
rector, were the speakers. Thirty industrial plants
of Newark are members of the Recreation As—
sociation that sponsored the basketball league."

This item, significant in itself, has a story be-
hind it because of the contribution the Board of
Education is making to a new phase in the his-
tory of athletics. Organized sport is compara—
tively a modern program which is entering its
third and most important phase. Started by the
athletic clubs and followed up by the educational
institutions, it has now spread to the industrial
held, and the expansion and growth in the next
decade will be to a large degree in this area.

From the beginning of the machine age Newark
has been well known for its industries, so it is
the desire of the Newark Board of Education to
be among the leaders for the advancement and
improvement of the leisure-time activities for the
workers of industry.

The history of the movement in Newark dates
back to 1932 when the Recreation Department, in
conjunction with the Y.M.C.A., organized a ten
team industrial basketball league and followed
this up by forming the North Newark Industrial
Softball League and the Ironbound Industrial
League. From the beginning the Board of Edu-
cation made every endeavor to convince employ-
ers throughout Greater Newark of the value of
industrial athletics and recreation, and particu—
larly the responsibility of employers in providing
adequate facilities and the opportunity of par-
ticipation in a broad program to employees for
the use of leisure time. The result was the com-
bining of all the manufacturing
leagues into one organization
which in September, 1938, took
the title “Newark Industrial
Recreation Association.”

By VINCENT FARRELL
Recreation Director

West Side High School

Newark, New Jersey

How the Association Functions

Supervision of the entire program is under the
Recreation Department. A president and vice-
president are elected from the companies repre-
sentatives, and the oliice of secretary-treasurer is
handled by a clerk in the central office of the de-
partment in order to facilitate matters of postage,
printing and sending out notices. Any industrial
and commercial organization located in the
Greater Newark area is eligible for membership.
Any person who is a bona tide employee of any
member of the organization may represent that
company in the various athletic activities.

A board of directors is the governing body of
the Association, and each company is entitled to
select one to be its representative on this board.

Rules Governing Competition

In order to be eligible for competition in any
activity, a person shall have been employed by the
company he represents for a minimum of twenty
hours per week and for a period of thirty days
prior to the first day of competition. All persons
must be regular employees of the concern theV
represent, except when a member is forced to
leave the employ of a concern after being eligible
to compete. This leave is often due to seasonal
lay—offs. In such cases, to establish eligibility the
representatives may apply to the committee in
charge of that activity for permission to retain
such member. Proof must be submitted that the
member left the firm through no fault of his own.
Each committee in charge of a particular activity
sets up its own rules and- regulations which must
adhere to those set forth in the official entry blank
of the Recreation Department.

(Continued on page 531)

The Newark Board ot Education concerns itself with
the development of athletics for industrial workers

If“

Volleyball—Popular American Game

coming America’s great

recreational sport for
both young and old. It is es—
sentially a game for recrea-
tion and participation. It is a
players’ game, not an onlook-
er’s athletic spectacle. If re—
liable statistics could be
gathered as to the number of
people playing volleyball in
schools, on playgrounds, at
colleges and universities. in
Y.M.C.A.’s and Y.VV.C.A.’s, in boys’ clubs, set-
tlements, churches, and athletic clubs, it would
undoubtedly rank among the first ten national
major sports from the point of view of
participation.

Volleyball takes its place with bowling, tennis,
golf, baseball, and basketball as a popular Ameri-
can sport, finding favor with millions. Softball
and volleyball are the two new games showing
remarkable growth in recent years. There are
many reasons for this. Both are primarily rec-
reational sports that are inexpensive and easily
played without the need for the long training and
specialization that goes with high powered com—
petitive athletics. Football, baseball, and basket-
ball have become highly skilled and specialized.
They are good games but have lost their recrea-
tional character for the mass of people.

Municipal recreation departments and authori—
ties, in their reports, show the phenominal increase
of interest in volleyball as one of the major games
throughout the country, on playgrounds and in rec-
reation centers. With hundreds of leagues for all
ages and groups, with many tournaments and with
thousands of players, volleyball has become popu-
lar both'as an outdoor and as an indoor game. A
recreation executive recently stated that he felt
figures would reveal that more volleyball was
played on playgrounds than anywhere else. This
may be true, but similar recent statements from
other groups and organizations prove that the
same growth and trend are true in Y.M.C.A.’s,
boys’ clubs, churches, colleges, and schools[

For years volleyball has been the popular game
in \'..\I.C.A.’s and Y.\V.C.A.’s. It is a favorite
among industrial leagues. With business men it

VOLLEYBALL is rapidly be-

of volleyball.

cm

By JAMES E. ROGERS

National Recreation Association

For use in connection with the I939-40
edition of the Volleyball Guide Book
(Spalding's Athletic Library). James E.
Rogers. Director of the National Physical
Education Service, prepared a state-
ment showing the increasing popularity
The information given
will be of so much interest to recrea-
tion workers that we present extracts.

has taken the place of bas-
ketball, which has become too
strenuous and skilled for
older men.

A report issued for the
Boys’ Clubs of America is
most encouraging, showing
that throughout the country
volleyball has increased
rapidly and is practically one
of the major items in the
physical education and ath—
letic program. Of 114 clubs

recently reporting on their athletic program, 95
per cent stated that volleyball was a part of the

program.

Today volleyball is one of the outstanding
sports in the intramural program of our colleges
and universities. Observation of the game in re—
cent visits to more than fifty institutions of higher
education in various parts of the country has con-
firmed the belief that volleyball ranks among the
first ten, if not the first three games, in popularity
and number of players. Dr. May, of the Uni—
versity of Michigan, has stated that it is one of
the best liked games in the elective service pro—
gram required of all freshman students.

Reports from boys’ and girls’ physical educa—
tion programs in junior and senior high schools
show that in this area there has been a phenomenal
growth. Some cities and states report wide par—
ticipation. In Maryland, volleyball is one of the .
favorite games among school children. It ranks
high in the program.

There are still, however, sections in which more
can be done in the public schools to promote the
game. The new modified rules for juniors or
beginners, as formulated by the national commit—
tee, will help tremendously in the public schools.
One can fairly say that there is a definite trend
forward and that volleyball has become an in—
tegral part of the physical education programs in
all schools, especially in our large cities.

Volleyball is also increasing in favor among in-
dustrial leagues, church groups, settlements, ath-
letic and business men’s clubs. It is a game that
is used on different occasions. It is played at
picnics and social gatherings. It is used as a social

(Continued on page 532)

Co—Ed Events in Bethlehem

T THE MENTION of the
Young Women’s Christian
Association, one naturally

thinks of an organization deal-
ing with women and girls.

In Bethlehem, Pennsylvania,
however, the Y.W.C.A. has

a much broader scope. The
local organization was quick

to realize that if work with
women and girls is to be
effective it mUSt foster
healthy relations b e t w e e n
boys and girls, men and
women. Because of this
policy adopted by the Beth-
lehem Y.VV.C.A., visitors
are apt to find as many boys as girls in the build-
ing—playing, dancing, eating or just having a
good time together.

Social Dancing

The Health Education Department sponsors
weekly classes at the “Y” in social dancing, and
here, too, the same situation prevails. In fact, the
number of boys sometimes exceeds the number of
girls attending. The classes, though open to all
comers, are especially attractive to the teen age
group. Statistics for 1938 show, nevertheless,
that these dances do not cater to one particular
group, and as a result they have an approximately
even percentage of all ages of young folks from
all parts of the city. The price of instruction—-
fifteen 'cents for each person—is within reach of
of any purse. Of course this fee only covers ex-
penses, but it includes the purchase of the latest
records for the new radiola-victrola. '

At present, the Wednesday evening class has
reached an enrollment of three hundred. At the
beginning of the evening there is a class where
beginners not only learn the latest dance steps and
ballroom etiquette, but also develop poise and self-
confidence. The boy learns how to ask a girl for a
dance, the girl how to accept graciously. A class
in intermediate dancing follows the half hour re-
served for beginners; at this time those who
dance, but still need practice and instruction, have
the floor. Then come the advanced students who
hold an actual hour and a half dance when they

By _HARRIET LARRABEE
' Y.W.C. A.

Bethlehem. Pennsylvania

So much interest has been aroused by the
articles on co-recreation in the Septem- girls.
ber and October issues of Recreation that
material on the subject is still reaching
us for publication. We are very glad to
have the opportunity of presenting the ex-
perience of another local Y.W.C.A.. and
also the interesting experiment described
in the article entitled "Milk Shake Night
Club'l which appears in this issue. It is
our hope that still more material on this
subject will be sent us for the magazine.

carry out the principles they
have learned as they advanced
through the first two classes.
Similar classes are conducted
on Friday afternoons for
junior high school boys and

Concerned with more than
just dancing instruction, all
of the classes center around
the boys and girls them-
selves. Often informal dis-
cussions take place as ques-
tions arise: “Why are some
girls always on the side
lines?” “How can those
girls achieve popularity—
is it dress, personality?” “What qualities do boys
consider the ones which make girls attractive,
and vice versa ?” “What about petting?” Reac-
tions and conclusions are carried from one group
to the other, as the students advance and eventu-
ally plan by themselves their special dances,
chaperoned by committee members, with popular
orchestras. Instructors are delighted to see a self-
conscious, awkward seventeen-year-old trans-
formed by the end of the term into a poised, con-
fident dancer who can converse easily with any
dancing partner.

For Working Boys and Girls

But co-ed recreation can not st0p with a danc-
ing class. There is still the problem of working
boys and girls: where can they visit together,
other than in movies, beer parlors, or crowded
homes? Must they walk from street corner to
street corner to talk together? An attempt to
answer this need resulted in a regular Thursday
evening of informal co-ed recreation at the south
side branch. Those who can afford it pay a fee of
twenty-five cents for six months, but no one is
barred for lack of a quarter.

A visitor would see perhaps forty boys and
girls, who attend high school or are employed in
the city—some playing ping-pong or checkers,
others reading magazines, playing the victrola, or
dancing a bit.

There are two or three unwritten rules which
the group formulated. One is that the ping-pong

503 '

504 CO-ED EVENTS IN BETHLEHEM

table shall not be used by boys or girls alone:
playing must be done in couples. If the second
rule—“No roughhousing” is violated, it is inter-
esting to see a boy. with his Boys’ Club training,
step 11p and remark firmly, “We don’t do that in
the Y.VV.C.A.” The third decree is that a boy
must wear a necktie and look presentable if he
expects to come to any Thursday evening

gatherings.

Cooperation in Co-ed Recreation

The south side branch of the Y.VV.C.A. and the
Bethlehem Boys’ Club are 'located within three
blocks of each other and work closely in matters
of staff and club groups. The Industrial Girls’
Club and the Senior Fraternity of the Boys’ Club
have- dances, hikes, and discussions. As the Teen
Club Girl Reserves and the Junior Fraternity both
hold meetings on Monday nights, often one club
entertains the other, or they plan a party with
joint responsibility.

The “Y” recently acquired an old Pennsylvania
Dutch farm, fourteen miles from Bethlehem. The
property has excellent hills for skiing, and through
the winter months co—ed groups skied there. It is
intended for a camp site, however, and members
of the Boys’ Club seem as anxious that .the camp
be made ready for use as though it were their
own. All during the summer and fall groups of
boys and girls picnicked at the camp, but in addi—
tion to enjoying a picnic lunch and a swim in the
creek, they painted walls and ceilings, scrubbed
wood work and cleared grounds. At the end of
the day it was hard to tell which group had

worked the harder or had more fun. These were
indeed co—ed outings!

Other Activities

The three Business Girls’ Clubs specialize in
co—ed parties and hold many unique ones during
the program months. One particularly interesting
contact they made is with the “loopers” of the
Bethlehem Steel Company, whom they include in
their party plans. These boys, picked college
graduates, come from all over the country to
study at first hand the work of this great steel
company. When the girls who work in the offices
of the company invite them to the Y.W.C.A. for
the first time, they wonder about “this woman’s
place” but accept because they are lonely. They
feel safe because they come twenty or thirty
strong. However, before the first evening is over
and after they have danced and played shuffle—
board or ping—pong, they help serve refreshments

Q

'and clean up in the kitchen—and ask how often
they may come back.

Bowling, one of the outstanding activities of
the Y.W.C.A., is scheduled once a week. and the
girls and women of the bowling league periodi-
cally invite their husbands and boy friends in to
play with them. At such times competition runs
high, for the men find that they must bowl their
best to keep up with the ladies.

Our co—ed activities do not stop with these
groups but are carried out with as much zeal in
the foreign communities department. Bethlehem
has many nationalities, and one of the features of
the work in this department is the Folk Festival.
The Hungarians annually put on a Grape Festi-
val, and it is a picturesque sight to see young and
old men and women, some attired in their native
costumes, whirl in the Czardas to native music
played on violin and piano. Strife and nationality
differences are forgotten when everyone attends
nationality nights or works on a combined na—
tionality Folk Festival. Fathers and mothers also
attend free classes in citizenship and English.

The Bethlehem Y.W.C.A., despite its crowded
quarters on both the north and south side, knows
that work and recreation for girls and women
must include brothers, boy friends, and fathers,
and has attempted to answer this need in co-ed
activities. This “Y” is a young organization,
however, and it has dreams for more than can be
accomplished in the immediate future. It is grate-
ful to the Boys’ Club, since by their assistance a
co-recreational program has developed. The Y.‘W.
C.A. knows that only the greatest good can come
from such cooperation, for through it the Boys’
Club and the Y.W.C.A. alike may realize their '
dream of an extensive, planned program of co-

recreation fostered by the social agencies of
Bethlehem.

“If we are going to keep ourselves ready to face
the world of tomorrow we must listen to young
people. We will not always agree with them and
they will not always be right, but the majority
among them will help us approach new ideas with
enquiring minds. No one of us knows at present
exactly how we are going to meet the problems we
see looming be fore us in the future, but we do know
that youth will have to meet these problems and
solve them. . . . Therefore we should encourage
youth in any efforts which they make to face the

future in cooperation with each other.”-——Eleanor
Roosevelt.

Milk Shake. Night Club

H ELP \NANTED” was a
H slogan of opportunity
in the boom years of
the late twenties, when jobs
were plentiful and employ-
ers were on the lookout for
capable young workers. The intervening years of
economic dislocation have seen youth paging jobs
and scrambling for the comparatively few oppor-
tunities available. Countless public and private
organizations claim, “We must give more atten-
tion to the involuntary leisure time problems of
youth.” But what can youth themselves do? This
challenge to youth and to communities has been
aggravated by the depression, not born of it.
Recreation they had, of a kind, but not always
best fitted to their interests and pocketbooks.

In Rochester, New York, the self-restraint of
restless youth finally came to
focus in June 1939, when the
representatives of twelve
youth organizations came to-
gether to establish the Youth
Council of Rochester and
Monroe County. Inspiration
came from the young peo-
ple; counsel and guidance
came from the Youth Com-
mittee of the Character
Building Division of the
Council of Social Agencies.
With self-determined pur—
pose “to work together with
tolerance and understanding
for the mutual benefit of the
member organizations and
the young people of Roches-
ter and Monroe County,” the
Council set out to prove that
youth can do something for
youth.

As the first step, these
young people, forgers of their
own destiny, launched the
Youth Garden. The Youth
Garden, now an established
success, took shape out of a
conviction that youth wanted
inexpensive recreation, danc-

By KENNETH M. STORANDT
Assistant Secretary
Character Building Division

Council of Social Agencies
Rochester. New York

 

ing in decent surroundings
without the sale of alcoholic
beverages. A committee of
Youth Council members set
about to build a framework
by which their convictions
could become a reality. Their original mobiliza-
tion was one of courageous effort and a will to
win, for there was a slim reserve of only seven
dollars in the Council treasury.

In the City Department of Commerce the com-
mittee members found an enthusiastic ally, and
they secured the use of an assembly hall in one
of the city parks. Well suited to dancing but in
need of some revamping, the hall was a call to
arms and elbows! The floor had to be cleaned,
sanded, and waxed; decorations were needed; an
orchestra platform had to be built; and a variety
of odd obs loomed up in the
path of the “night club”
transformation. Likewise, a
soda fountain and milk bar
had to be installed. Within
two weeks, without “financial
angels,” but with youthful
effort, the backing of civic
leaders, and the “trust” of
merchants, the Youth Gar-
den was ready to open.

Local newspapers were
generous in their support,
and an enterprising reporter
headlined the Dry or Milk
Shake Night Club as a splen-
did endeavor to present some-
thing new and different in
night life. Aptly stated by a
news editorial was the chal-
lenge that the only way to
find out if a thing will work
is to try it. Rochester youth
did just that, and returned
with an afhrmative answer.

Operating on Wednesday
evenings from nine to twelve,
and Saturdays from nine to
one, the Youth Garden be—
came a rendezvous for Roch-

(Contz'nued on page 532)
505

The Harmonica in the Recreation Program

ECENTLY in one of the
R well-known home maga-

By RICHARD H. ABERNETI—IY

Director of Harmonica Bands
Los Angeles City School Playgrounds

stances have come to light
showing how children have
found an interest in music

zines a piano manu—
facturer published an adver—
tisement in the interest of his product
by showing a large picture of a boy
playing a harmonica. The title read,
“From Jig Time to Big Time; Who
Knows.” The author realized that
behind this very powerful means of
attracting attention to his article there
lies a sound philosophy in the fact
that we are too prone to laugh at
Johnnie’s monkey shines on the mouth
organ, or Mary’s growing passion for
her toy piano. Their urge for musi-
cal expression may indicate talents
that would bring rich rewards if pro—
perly trained, and these toys are
merely stepping stones. Though this
article deals primarily with the har-
monica there is no intention to mini-
mize the value of other toy instru-
ments for they all offer a distinct
contribution. However, the harmonica
can probably offer more practical
knowledge than most so-called toy
instruments, and if seriously considered, is really
above the toy class.

In Los Angeles a course in harmonica playing
was offered to teachers, recreational directors, and
laymen. The class opened with a registration of
over two hundred adults whose interest ranged
from those who wished to learn for their own
pleasure to those who planned to use the instru-
ment as an introduction to the rudiments of music
and as a foundation for future study. Introduced
at this course was a series of books by Mildred
Vandenburgh entitled “Music Education with the
Harmonica.” Starting with instruction in rhythm
band and the very simplest form of harmonica
playing, the course progresses
in easy steps to the last word
in harmonica playing. Many
teachers are successfully us-
ing this new method which so
naturally combines education
with recreation.

A surprising number of in-

506

 

"May we present harmonica playing from
a recreational point of View, in the hope
that those who might otherwise be de-
pendent upon others for their musical
pleasure will find a delightful form of
mental and physical relaxation of their
own making through this medium."

through the harmonica, and
how parents, discovering by this
means a child’s natural talent, have
eagerly provided instruction in other
instruments, such as the accordion,
the piano, the violin or whatever the
child seemed most interested in as the
next step. An outstanding case is
that of a boy whose parents later
confessed that they never dreamed he
had musical talent. Through the har-
monica they discovered he not only
had talent but was profoundly inter-
ested in music. He became an artist
on the harmonica in a few weeks. A
twelve bass accordion was provided
as his next step. In three months he
had outgrown it and was pleading for
 a larger one. He got it, and now is a
 master of the one hundred and twenty
 bass instrument.
 Not all children provide such con-
spicuous examples, nor is it to be ex-
pected, for among the members of
harmonica bands there are varying degrees of
success. Some go far-—-—others seem just to “get
by”—but it is safe to say that well over seventy-
live per cent of those who start will learn to play
and thus will be insured against having no means
of musical expression. The child who does not
advance and become a proficient player is not a
failure, for it is never known how far the mere
introduction to music through the harmonica will
carry into the future.

If it is your intention to try your hand at this
type of recreational music, realize beforehand that
unless it is done correctly you cannot expect re-.
sults favorable to your purpose. There is a right‘

and a wrong way to play aI
harmonica, just as there is a}
right and a wrong technique}.
to swimming or any form of}?
sport. Speed and grace as
well as stamina are sacri-
ficed by incorrect methods
In harmonica playing, unles.

THE HARMONICA IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM 507

you learn the correct technique, you will be ham-
pered in ability and progress. Many books are
available—some free and others at varying cost.
They all tell the same story, but practice is the
true secret of accomplishment.

Most important to the beginner is to realize that
the instrument must be placed well back into the
mouth lightly between the teeth, and with the
tongue placed against the holes to the left in such
a way that only the note in the right corner of the
mouth plays. Later, after the ability to play sin—
gle tones in this manner has been accomplished,
the-technique of introducing bass chords may be
mastered by simply lifting the tongue off the bass
notes to the rhythm of the music. It would be safe
to say that ninety per cent of all harmonica play-
ers play by ear whether they have a knowledge of
music or not.

The instrument has earned its popularity
through simplicity. It requires no musical ability
to play, results come quickly, and satisfaction is
ass11red. Often persons will spend many minutes
just playing notes and chords with no apparent
intention of playing a tune—just blowing and
drawing to produce the sound.When spoken to they
seem to be startled as if in a dream or wrapped in
profound thought. One often finds great satisfac-
tion in just listening
to the tones, while only
half hearing them,
while back inside is a
comfortable feeling of
complete relaxation
much the same as we
experience while sit-
ting before a slowly
burning log fire or by
a murmuring stream.
This is true recreation.
Such a complete feel-
ing of relaxation is
one of the greatest
cures for tortured
nerves and tired mus-
cles. It comes occa-
sionally by the lire,
occasionally by the
stream, but often
through music.

More compelling is
the sensation when we
produce the sound our-
selves, though it be a

sonata or a simple group of notes repeated over
and over again. To most of us this would justify
the price of the instrument a hundred fold, but
the little gadget is “tricky,” and before long we
find bits of “Old Folks at Home,” “Home on the
Range,” and other familiar tunes taking form to
the satisfaction of the player. The simple friend-
liness of the instrument makes practice pleasur-
able, and since practice makes perfect it is not
long until, bit by bit, the mastery comes. What if
it has been months or even a year—it has been
fun! This must surely be the secret of the har-
monica’s popularity. Is it not so with our best
friends? Those we enjoy the most are the plain,
sincere, friendly people with whom we find as-
sociation and companionship a pleasant relaxation.

Harmonica playing is not a new activity, nor is
the organization of bands a new recreation ven-
ture. However, the magnitude of the activity on
the Los Angeles school playgrounds may be of
interest. During the past eleven years considerably
over a hundred thousand boys and girls have not
only been taught to play but have enjoyed the

_ satisfying experience of playing in bands. There

are at present over seven thousand children en—
gaged in this activity as one of their recreation

(Continued on page 533)

 

Austin’s
Symphony
Orchestra

N Es, I BELIEVE that we have the football team
Yorganized now,” James A. Garrison, Di-
rector of the Austin Recreation Department,
told me a few days ago when we were reviewing
the progress that the Austin, Texas, Symphony
Orchestra had made over a very short period of
time. I could see that he was very proud of the
orchestra. But so was every citizen in the city.
When he said “football team” I knew what he
meant, for he had frequently used the term in re-
ferring to his recreation program. He would say,
“Unless you have every type of activity repre—
sented on your recreation program, professionally
you are j‘ust like the football coach Who sends a
team on the field with some of the positions un-
filled.”
Shortly after Mr. Garrison became director of
the Department in 1928, he started building his

team. Playground activities, city-wide athletics,-

swimming, community sing-songs, various types
of dancing and municipal social dance clubs, dra—
matics on the playgrounds and community thea-
ters, boys’ clubs, adult and junior municipal bands,
nature study along with the hiking clubs, and such
specialized activities as horseback riding, skeet
and golf had all been placed on the calendar dur-
ing the years. The one thing lacking was a sym-
phony orchestra, and in October of 1938 that final
“position” was filled.

Making the Plans

A meeting was held one afternoon in Mr. Gar-
rison’s office at which several music school di—
rectors made known the fact that a symphony
conductor of a national and international reputa-
tion was in the city on leave of absence from a

508

 

neighborhood State University. Immediately
names of leading musicians in the city and inter-
ested business men and women were written down
and plans were laid for another meeting in which
all of these people were to participate.

In less than three months from the night of
that second meeting, the curtains were going up
for tlie concert of Austin’s ninety-piece symphony
orchestra. At that second meeting, Mayor Tom
Miller, Lomis Slaughter, a business man, and Mr.
Garrison, serving as business manager, were
elected as a board of directors. Serving with the
board of directors, a board of advisers was
elected which included twenty—six men and women.

An experienced conductor, Hendrick J. Buy-
tendorp, was placed on the Recreation Depart-
ment’s payroll on a part-time basis, since no other
funds were then available. He called his first re-.
hearsal early in October with some thirty-five
reporting. But by the end of the month he had
doubled this number, and by the time of his first
concert in December he had ninety pieces ready.
for the initial appearance. Music teachers, tal-j'
ented musicians of the city, union musicians and]
advanced students of music in the schools and;

colleges of the city participated with the orchestra. }

The Music Union threw open its doors and an-
it

nounced that its members might play without pay. 1,

While the orchestra was establishing itself as Ell
definite unit, the board of directors and the ad-ll
visory board were seriously concerned with set-I
ting up a plan to finance the orchestra. In spite
of the fact that the orchestra members were to
receive no remuneration, the director had to be
paid and musical instrunients had to be pur-
chased. Lurking in the minds of the boards was

 

the memory that once, years before, a director had
attempted to maintain an orchestra but had failed
because of lack of financial aid.

A tympani set, bass violins, drums and other
necessary instruments had generously been loaned
by the schools for the early rehearsals, but the
board felt that the good nature of the schools
should not be overtaxed.

Financing the Orchestra

A budget was set up for director’s salary, pur-
chase of instruments, music rental, and other
items of expense which might be expected for one
year. Various plans were then discussed in re—
gard to raising the necessary budget.

The plan which was hnally adopted was that
the Recreation Department should underwrite a
part of the estimated cost and business men and
women of the city the remainder. Under this
plan the proceeds of the orchestra from its con—
certs are supposed to carry the orchestra, and in
case of a shortage the underwriters have guar—
anteed to pay the balance.

When the newspapers announced the plans,
many of the underwriters, instead of having to be
approached, telephoned the amount that they
wished to sign up for. Under this plan the board
promised to establish the admission price for
adults at fifty cents and children at twenty—five
cents with no reserved seats.

Seven concerts were then booked for 1939 and
season tickets were placed on sale. Sufficient
money was received from the sale to carry on the
business of the orchestra. Individual ticket sales
for the first two concerts held have been ex-
tremely good.

The deyeloPment of
a symphony orches-
tra in a city of
85,000 inhabitants

By
KARL MEYER

From the Conductor’s Point of View

\Vhen Conductor Buytendorp raised his baton
at the hrst rehearsal that October night, I am cer-
tain it didn’t carry him into memories of great
symphonies that he had heard. From what I have
learned of the Conductor, I am convinced that he
is a courageous fellow, and instead of frowning
at what he heard he proudly smiled and made a
resolution that he would mold the group into a
harmonious unit.

The rehearsal hall was the second story of an
old fire hall with high ceiling and plenty of room.
Folding chairs furnished by the recreation de—
partment and music stands made in the recreation
department shop, formed the setting under which
the orchestra started. As the rehearsal group
grew from thirty-five to nearly a hundred, the
conductor was further equipped with a platform
so that he might see the whole membership with—
out standing on his tiptoes all evening.

Full rehearsals are called for every Thursday,
and sectional rehearsals are held at regular inter-
vals throughout the week.

“Now, is this municipal group open to anyone
desiring to play in it?” we asked Mr. Garrison.
“It is,” he said, “if the player is good enough.”
So that is why there is a waiting list and plans
are on foot for organizing a junior symphony
which will form a training ground for the num—
ber one unit.

The ultimate idea behind Austin’s symphony
orchestra is not that Austin wants merely a con-
cert orchestra, but that it wants an activity which
will give men, women, boys, and girls an oppor-

(Continued on page 534)
509

The Society of Recreation Workers of America

of Recreation Workers of America held a

number of sessions which aroused much in—
terest. At the opening session on October 9th, the
subject “Trends in Public Recreation” was con—
sidered from a number of points of view. The
viewpoint of social work was presented by Mrs.
Eva Whiting White, head worker, Elizabeth Pea-
body House, Boston; of adult recreation, by Rev-
erend Michael J. Ahern, president, Adult Educa-
tion Council of Greater Boston; of the public
schools, including physical education, by Dr. H. C.
Hutchins, assistant secretary, Educational Poli-
cies Commission, Washington, D. C.

In the afternoon, questions from the fioor,
many of them involving technical knowledge, gave
a jury of “veterans” an opportunity to make their
experience available to all. In a period set aside
for the discussion of Society problems a number
of recommendations were offered for the pro-
gram of the Society for the coming year.

Nearly two hundred members of the Society
and their guests came together at a luncheon
meeting on October 11th when
Dr. Harry Overstreet of the
College of the City of New
York and author of “Guide to
Civilized Loafing” and other
books, gave a stimulat-
ing address on “Pro-
fessional Leadership in
the Field of Public
Recreation.”

At the second annual
meeting of the Society
held on October 12th,
reports presented by
the President, Secretary
and Treasurer showed
that the Society had
successfully come
through its First year of
organization and was
ready for a new year of
larger activity and re-
sponsibility. Reports
were also received from
the following standing
committees: Member-

a '1‘ THE Boston Recreation Congress, the Society

510

At the meeting of the Society of
Recreation Workers of America held Minn.
on October |2th, George Hielte of
Los Angeles was elected president
to succeed V. K. Brown of Chicago Wash.

 

ship, Study and Research, and Training. The
recommendations offered by these committees
called for a program of work for the Society
which should be a challenge to the 550 members
now enrolled.

The following officers, members at large, and
geographical district representatives were elected

at the business meeting:

President, George Hjelte, Los Angeles, Calif.

First Vice-President, Dorothy Enderis, Milwaukee, Wis.

Second Vice-President, C. E. Brewer, Detroit, Mich.

Treasurer, Lewis Barrett, Washington, D. C.

Secretary, Arthur T. Noren, Elizabeth, N. J.

Five Members at Large—V. K. Brown, Chicago, 111.;
Charles Cranford, White Plains, N. Y.; De Hart Hub—
bard, Cincinnati, Ohio; F. S. Mathewson, Plainiield,
N. J.; Mark McCloskey, New York, N. Y. ‘

Geographical District Representatives—

New England—W. D. Russell, Boston, Mass.; James.
Dillon, Hartford, Conn.

Mid-Atlantic—C. E. English, Philadelphia, Pa.; L. C.
Schroeder, Pittsburgh, Pa.

East Central—Russell Foval, Alton, 111.; D. D. Hicks,
Charleston, W. Va.

South—E'ast—A. H. Jones, Charlotte, N. C.; C. R.
Wood, Durham, N. C.

Mid—West—R. K. Bliss, Ames,
Iowa; Ernest Johnson, St. Paul,.

Pacific—Charles Davis, Berke--
ley, Calif.; Ben Evans, Seattle,

E. Canada—Wm. Bowie,.
Montreal, Canada; J. J.
Syme, Hamilton, Ont.

So. Western — Ralph i
Schulze, Waco, Texas; I
Lucyle Godwin, Monroe,La.. 

Western Canada — No-
elections.

Western—No elections.

The Society, on the' ';
recommendation of V. -
K. Brown, retiring Jl
president, decided to-
make the promotion of
nature recreation a ma-
jor objective for the 
coming year. It will be -
of interest to Society-l.
members to learn that;
Mr. Brown was re--

(Continued on page 534)

 

— ——- a. m—v—I u‘ —

-gr-"w

A Message to Recreation Workers

COMPLETING the first year

of its existence, the

Society of Recreation
Workers of America held its
second annual meeting at
Boston on October ninth.
The meeting was held in con—
junction with the Twenty-
Fourth National Recreation
Congress. That the infant
Society has survived the first
year of its existence in such
a manner as to give assurance to its sponsors that
it was well born, could not be doubted by any
who attended the Boston meeting. It demonstrated
a capacity for vigorous growth and gave promise
of future achievement not only to the credit of
itself but for the advancement of the cause of
human welfare with which its life purposes are
inextricably entwined.

Since the birth of the Society in Pittsburgh a
year ago, five hundred forty-one recreation work-
ers had joined the Society. Nearly two hundred
of the members were privileged to attend the an—
nual meeting at Boston. All of these must have
been impressed with the splendid record which the
Society established during the first year.

Recalling the several sessions which constituted
the meeting, the following stand out in recollec—
tions as indicative of noteworthy accomplishments

and outlines

of the Society: (I) the faithfulness with which"

the elected and appointed officers had served the
Society throughout the year; (2) the work which
the several standing committees had done as re-
vealed in the written reports which were received
and the contents of which will be published for
the information of all members; (3) the lively
discussion on organization problems which the
Society faces in its early years; (4) the informa-
tive addresses on, trends in recreation which were
offered by outstanding leaders from the fields of
adult education, social work, and public educa-
tion; (5) the inspirational address of Dr. Harry
Overstreet in which ten fundamental qualifica—
tions of leaders in the profession of recreation
leadership were expressed in a Incid and challeng—
ing manner.

Out of the discussion several new projects were
initiated in the form of recommendations to the

By GEORGE HJELTE

Superintendent

Playground and Recreation Department
Los Angeles. California

Mr. Hielte. newly elected president
of the Society of Recreation Workers
of America. tells of the accomplish-
ments of the Society in its first year.

the
the second year's program of work

executive council. These look
toward the promotion of na—
ture recreation as a field for
special emphasis during the
coming year; the taking of
steps toward the formula—
tion of a code of professional
ethics, not only as a guide
for members but as a con-
crete expression of the ac-
cepted ideals of the profes-
sional workers affiliated with
the Society; and the appointment of a committee
on publication which will devise means for plac-
ing in the hands of all members the reports sub-
mitted by officers and committees and the papers
presented by oustanding speakers. The standing
committees on Membership, Research, Training
and Auditing, will, of course, continue the work
which each has started.- New appointments to
these committees will be announced shortly.

It must be remembered that ours is a working
society, not one in which the work is done by a
well financed headquarters but by the members
working individually and collectively. The mea-
ger income from dues will preclude the possibility
of headquarters doing the work. This income will
be no more than sufficient to pay essential office
expense, printing and postage. The work of the
Society must be a voluntary contribution of the
membership motivated by unselfish devotion to the
welfare of all and to our movement. '

If this be true it follows that much of the work
of the Society must be conducted in the geo-
graphical areas and under the stimulation of the
geographical representatives provided for in "the
constitution. It is the hope of your officers that
the year now commencing may witness a healthy
participation in activities of the Society in the
geographical areas. These activities need not be
limited to those initiated and promoted by na—
tional and committee officers but may be of local
origin as well. The well known recreation prin-
ciple that participation contributes to growth and
continued interest is as applicable to an organiza—
tion as to the individual.

It is also hoped that the number of members
will expand during the year. This can be accom-

(Coutimted on page 534)

objectives for

[‘11

Recollections of My Boyhood Days

GREAT MANY people real-
A ize that the first duty of

government is to con—
serve its assets; and the boy
of today, who will be the citi-
zen of tomorrow, is certainly
an asset.

\Vhen I was a boy, there
were no such organizations as
the Boy Scouts. We had the
neighborhood social organization. Nobody di—
rected it; nobody assumed any responsibility for
it; it just went along by its own power. There
were no playgrounds for children; there were
very few parks, and when we did have parks they
were removed from the centers of population;
and as a result the great playground, the great or-
ganization center, in my boyhood, was along the
waterfront.

Certainly, as a boy, I never heard of Bear
Mountain, although when I was Governor I went
there once a year while the Boy Scouts were in
camp, and they always thought it was quite a joke
if they could put the Indian hat on me and paint
my face up a bit so I could look like the Big
Chief. I reminded them that the role wasn’t dif—
ficult for me to play inasmuch as I was a member
of the Tammany Society, which is supposed to be
made up almost entirely of Indians!

But somehow or other things adjusted them-
selves, and if we didn’t have the playgrounds and
the gymnasiums, we did have along the water-
front the big sailing vessels, and the rigging of
the sailing vessels afforded a very good gym-
nasium—just as good as they have today. The
ship would be at the dock about two months. It
would take a month to unload it. Everything was
taken out of it with a block and fall, and the tow—
horse pulled it up the dock; and as the ship load
was lightening the ship raised and it was out of
reach, but that adjusted itself because at the next
dock another one came in loaded down; so we
just shifted from one gymnasium to the other,
and in that way we were well satisfied!

It is impossible to estimate the influence of the
Church. When I was a boy, I was a member of
what was known as St. James Union, and it was

512

By HON. ALFRED E. SMITH
New York City

This address. which was delivered

by ex-Governor Smith at the twenty-
ninth Annual Meeting of the National
Council of the Boy Scouts of America

held June 28-29, P939?I is reprinted
through the courtesy of the Council.

attached to the old church that
is over 115 years old down on:
james Street, right off the-
Bowery. The pastor of the
church was the spiritual di—-
rector of that Union, and the
constitution of the Union con-
tained a provision to the ef—-
feet that no boy could become
a member or remain a mem—
ber after the pastor’s expressed wish to the con—
trary. Nobody wanted to have the. stigma of being
taken out of that Union. A strange thing about
it was that it became known in the neighborhood,
and businessmen and trades people recruited their
employees from the Union because they were sure
that that boy was leading the kind of life that met
with the approval of the pastor, and if he wasn’t,.
he wouldn’t be in the Union.

W (:11; we used to have a picnic in the summer,
up at Jones W’oods, at the foot of East Sixtieth
Street, where we saw the familiar picture of the
goat licking the label off a tomato can. In the
winter we had a ball, usually up in Weber Hall
on Eleventh Street, because that was well up—
town. We had an amateur dramatic society, and-
you would be surprised to know how the make-
up man could make me look like an Irish villain.

Religion will influence the boy when he is.

taught to understand that if he is to be rewarded .
in the world to come he must do two things in ‘
life—he must obey the Divine Command, which r
is, “Love the Lord, thy God, with thy whole- "

heart, thy whole soul and thy whole mind”—-

and there is something e15e-——“ and thy neighbor-
as thy self.” Suppose that obtained throughout
the world today? There would be no bigotry;-
there would be no intolerance; there would be no.
racial or religious persecution—the things that
are the cause of a great amount of the strife:
across the Atlantic Ocean.

Speaking some years ago on the subject of the.

use of leisure, Mr. Smith urged the desirability ‘

of opening museums and similar institutions at
night. He himself, he said, was a well grown man
before he saw the inside of the Museum of Nat-
ural History because he never had time to go there. .

Shoe Shine Boy

the Richmond business dis-

trict and want a shoe shine,
you need only look about you
to discover two or three little
Negro boys, each proudly wearing a numbered
badge with the legend “Richmond Shoe Shine
Boys’ Club.” Upon your acceptance of their ver-
bal contract to refurbish your shoes for “ten
cents, one dime, the tenth part of a dollar,” the
boys will courteously direct you to a white-lined
oblong painted with broad strokes on the sidewalk
near the side of a building. With snappy wrist
work, they will make your shoes glisten; they
will accept your payment with white-toothed
grins, and thank you for the business.

Behind this streamlined trade and the badges
which the boys wear so proudly, is the story of a
problem that vexed both civic leaders and mu-
nicipal authorities; the story of a recreational
agency which used its facilities in physical equip-
ment and man power to solve that problem.

The depression sent scores of colored boys,
anxious to pick up a few pennies, on the streets of
Richmond with their homemade shoe shine boxes.
Besides the imperative need to“ help out at home,”
where the head of the family was frequently out
of work, these boys were taking the only means
open to them to earn a bit of spending money.
As the pressure of those lean years tightened,
more and more ragged urchins appeared on the
street corners “like a swarm of molested hornets,”
as the colored leaders of the city apprehensively
observed.

It was not long before dissension grew in the
bootblacking industry. Cliques developed; price
cutting wars ran rampant. Fierce fighting follow-
ed, and there was considerable bickering over
choice of stands. The weaker boys were forced
to take the less desirable corners. There was
profanity, recklessness, impudence; doorways of
business establishments were blocked; plate glass
windows were broken. In their commendable but
undirected efforts to earn an honest penny, the
boys became so objectionable that there were seri-
ous complaints filed at the Juvenile Court by har-
rassed merchants. Prospective customers at the
stores were mobbed by hordes of boys determined
to “make a shine.”

IF EVER YOU are walking in

By LEE G. CRUTCHFIELD
Public Relations Counsel
Community Recreation Association
Richmond' Virginia

\Vhat could be done? The
Juvenile Court judge, Honor-
able ]. Hoge Ricks, is known
for his progressive tendencies,
and he did not wish to submit
these boys to court contacts, but there seemed to
be no other way. Finally he called a consultation
which was attended by the Chief of Police, the
crime prevention officer of the Police Depart-
ment, the patrolmen on duty in the business sec-
tion, the president and director of the Colored
Recreation Association, and the director of the
Community Recreation Association—the latter
two associations being recreational and character
building agencies of the Richmond Community
Fund. Also present were the assistant chief of the
Bureau of Parks and Recreation, and the state
Commissioner of Labor.

After a long discussion an agreement was made
with the Works .Progress Administration. Her-
bert Thompson, a boy’s worker on the staff of the
Colored Recreation Association, and Mr. P. N.
Binford, Superintendent of Municipal Recrea-
tion, were selected to carry out the program. They
were to organize the bootblacks into clubs and ac-
tivities that would keep them busy and remove the
causes for complaint. Mr. Thompson was given
the names of fifteen boys by the probation 0f~
ficer of the Juvenile Court. He planned to instruct
these boys in law observance, assist them in pro-
curing work permits, impress upon them the im-
portance of keeping the sidewalks open, and sup-
ply recreational activities that would promote
personal development and inculcate in them the
ideals of American citizenship.

Without precedents. rules or regulations, Mr.
Thompson started out. The Colored Recreation
Association has a community center and gym-
nasium in the most densely populated Negro dis-
trict. With his fifteen boys as a nucleus he or-
ganized a boys’ club at the center. He set up a
gym period for recreation and baths. Then he
went out on the streets and built up, by personal
contact, bootblack clubs in various sections of the
city. Prominent Negro citizens were asked to
sponsor clubs, and as a result, in 1938 four hun-

dred and ten boys were listed as members of the
Shoe Shine Boys’ Clubs.

513

514 SHOE SHINE BOY

Regulatory measures were the next step. Their
interest caught through recreation, the boys real-
ized the need for rules in the pursuance of an
orderly conduct of their trade. A numbered mem-
bership badge was adopted and rules were formu-
lated by the clubs. Violations of these rules meant
automatic suspension of the badge and work
privileges for a certain number of days.

Athletic leagues were organized in all seasonal
sports, with uniforms furnished by the business
men sponsors. Individual case histories of all the
club members were filed with the Colored Recre-
ation Association; the club director visited the
boys’ home to discover social needs which were
referred to the proper social agencies for treat—

ment.

The Colored Recreation Association was able
to achieve successful results because it had the
wholehearted support of the Juvenile Court, the
Police Department, and the Crime Prevention
Bureau of the Police Department. A local Negro
moving picture house also cooperated by giving a
benefit show for the camp fund for bootblacks
who could not anrd a vacation otherwise. In
consequence, a successful holiday was held at the
colored camp at Echo Lake, near Richmond. The
annual ball given by the combined bootblack clubs
is among the most successful events ever staged
at the community center.

The system of control through badges and
permits proved so popular with the merchants and
police that they arranged space in\ six of the
largest office buildings where the boys could ply
their trade. The Police Department marked off
areas on the sidewalks where they could work.
The bootblacks themselves wanted to make this
new business method successful, and 118 of them
attended the Shoe Shine Boys’ Institute held at
the Colored Recreation Association for the pur-
pose of impressing on the boys the principles of
orderliness, fair play and sportsmanship.

Realizing that the need for employment was
among the most urgent problems faced by the
bootblacks, workers continually attempted to
secure more remunerative employment for them.
They installed twelve boys in private employment,
placed twenty-one boys in Civilian Conservation

Corps Camps, and established sixteen more in
National Youth Administration jobs.

Complaints fell 013E miraculously during the
period Mr. Thompson was director of the club.

The boys took real pride in the badges and care-
fully observed all regulations in order not to lose
them. Recreation and character building activi-
ties had made another forward step in solving one
of Richmond’s social problems.

This was the situation in 1939 when the first
blow fell. Herbert Thompson, the Shoe Shine
Boys’ director, was appointed superintendent of
the Colored Detention Home of the Juvenile
Court. Without his capable leadership, the club
was comparable to a rudderless ship. Prior to the
time he left his directorate, there were practically
no complaints. The month following his relin-
quishment, however, showed a startling increase.
The old gang struggles were breaking out as med-
dlesome, unregulated shoe shine boys who were
not club members interfered with the trade of the
“regulars.” The old profanity reappeared.

In perplexity, Judge Ricks again called together
the men who attended the meeting which resulted
in the formation of the Shoe Shine Boys’ Club.
Representatives of the business men reported that
disorder was rife, that the bootblack trouble was
rapidly growing worse. The officials showed little
hesitation in deciding upon the best method to
combat this degeneration: recreation had solved
it once and could solve it again. Mr. Thompson
had gone, but they resolved to find other workers,
well qualified and conscientious, who could begin
where he stopped. The men voted unanimously
that the Colored Recreation Association, which
had so ably supplied the solution to the problem j
in 1936, should be detailed to search for another 3'
qualined worker to take over the organization and
directional duties of the Richmond Shoe Shine .
Boys’ Clubs. Where his salary would come from
—~——the Richmond Community Fund, the Works
Progress Administration, or the city Recreation
Department—the committee did not decide. They
were confident that it would be found somewhere. '
“It is impossible,” said these Richmonders, hav-i
ing put their hands to the plow and sowed the]
seeds of citizenship in such rich furrows, “to turn f
back now l”

  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

So the Shoe Shine Boys’ Clubs will continue
under a new leader. The committee feels that the
training the boys received under the previous ad-
ministration will hold the clubs together until
they once more find a firm foundation and be-
come so strong that all the shoe shine boys in the
city will be numbered in their membership.

  

Through Games to Debating

11 AB BAG” is a game in
6 which the individ-
ual presents his
opinion to a group of his
peers. Frequently his presenta-
tion will be merely publicity
conscious or exhibitionistic.
“Blindfold” is a program which
demands more of him. He does
not merely present his opinion; he discusses it in
active intercourse with a small group. In “Heckle,”
he must not merely present and discuss, he must
advance, convince, and defend in a large group.
In “Team Court,” he comes to the procedure
with a prepared opinion, and there must present
it in a convincing manner. It is a short step, then,
from Team Court to team debating—“to an intel-
lectual, logical, democratic activity which demands
from (and develops in) the individual, prepara-
tion, the development of opinion, self-expression,
and self-confidence.

Gab Bag. As may be seen from its name, Gab
Bag is a combination of the grab bag and a dis-
cussion program. Contestants are asked to sign
Up and be present on the night of the event. It is
recommended that boys and girls be divided into
age groups: ten to twelve years, twelve to four-
teen, and fourteen to sixteen.

A list of topics is prepared by the leader or the
committee of members, and each topic is typed on
an individual card. Judges, audience, chairman
are all the interesting appurtenances of the formal
debate, but here the resemblance ceases. The con-
testants sit in the audience.

Putting "bait" into debating for
the under sixteen year old group

By PAUL L. SCHWARTZ

Irene Kaufmann Settlement
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

each speaker has his time
of preparation limited to the
time which the preceding
speaker uses.

The chairman should point
out that Gab Bag is not a mat-
ter of facts, but of opinions,
straight thinking, and clear
speaking. The judges take only
that into consideration, and the contestants are to
say what they think about the subject under dis-
cussion. Since the speeches are short as well as
interesting, the audience finds Gab Bag an enthral—
ling program. At the Irene Kaufmann Settlement
there is never any problem of disorder among the
listeners. Response to these programs has been
more than enthusiastic.

A suggested list of subjects:

AGES 12-14
I. Should you learn to play a musical instrument?
2. Should you go to bed at nine o’clock?
3. Should you do what your crowd does if you do
not like it?

4. Should you tell pe0ple if you do not like them?
5. Which comes first, your friends or your club?
AGES 14-16
I. At what age should you begin to go to dances?
2. Is it good to belong to a club where most of the

members are two or three years younger or

older than you?

3. Can you tell a person by the clothes he wears?

4. Is it good to have clubs with both boys and
girls in them?

5. Should older boys and
girls in the family have

When the program is
about to begin, the chair-
man calls the first contest-
ant who selects one of the
topic-cards 'from a box or
bag. The chairman then

introduces the program '

while the contestant con—
siders what he is about to
say. Just before introduc-
ing the contestant, the
chairman calls the second
speaker who also selects
his card. In other words,

Mr. Schwartz points out that in recent years
debating has fallen somewhat into disrepute
among recreation workers for a number of rea-
sons. For one thing. the amount of prepara-
tion required was excessive from the individ-
ual's point of viewI and from the leader's
viewpoint the activity had too often deterior-
ated into win-or-lose competition in which
sportsmanship was forgotten. It was to meet
these objections that a new type of informal
debating was undertaken at the Irene Kauf-
mann Settlement as an educational step-by-
step approach to formal forensic activities. The
descriptions of the games used will be of in-
terest at just this time when recreation work-
ers are entering the community center season.

to take care of the

younger ones?

Heclde. In comparison
to Gab Bag, this type of
program is adapted to a
rather small group. The
maximum is twenty-live
pe0ple. To carry a pro-
gram of an hour or an
hour and a half, only three
or four speakers arr
needed.

The chairman presents

:1:

51C) THROUGH GAMES TO DEBATING

the idea of the program and asks for a speaker.
The speaker rises and makes a statement of opin-
ion. He may say, “I think that football is better
than baseball,” or “There should be no home work
in school,” or any statement which is likely to find
two sides. The audience then proceeds to “heckle.”
The object is to make the speaker retract his state-
ment by argument, question, or discussion—or to
defend his statement against opponents. Usually
a hot discussion can easily be worked up, for few
such questions do not have partisans for both
sides. A time limit is set on discussion and a vote
on the question at the end of the period settles
the problem.

It has been found that such a program is easy
to institute and conduct; it develops a high degree
of discussion. Parliamentary procedure in the
recognition of speakers and discussion is good
training for formal debating.

Blindfold. This is a variation of both Gab Bag
and Heckle and is a good approach among the.
fourteen to sixteen-year-old group. It is simply
a panel discussion on a topic unknown until the
program begins.

Three, four, or live speakers and an inter—
locutor may be selected from a list of volumeers.
They are presented with a topic by the chairman
and immediately proceed to discuss it informally.
If they do not come to any conclusion within a
specified time, the program may be closed by an
audience vote.

More advanced in technique than Gab Bag, this
program should prOperly come between Gab Bag
and Heckle. In Gab Bag, the individual discusses
his opinion alone; in Blindfold, he discusses it
with a small group; and in Heckle, he advances
or defends it in a large group. It is recommended
that these three games be used in succession, no
new one being advanced until the group has as-
similated and understood the preceding ones.
lleckle is obviously the most advanced, and from
that point a few other programs will serve to pre-
pare various groups for the logical presentation of
discovered fact which is valuable in formal debate.

Team Court. This game has proved to be the
most successful and interesting of all. To the in—
formality and extemporaneousness of the other
three games, it adds the one essential of formal
debating which is still lacking—preparation.

The game takes the form of a mock trial or
“moot court”—-—in which the prosecution and de-
fense are composed of teams with staff advisors.
In the beginning the leader must discover some

 

interesting quasi—legal problem among the mem-
bers and must get the permission of those in-
volved to bring it to trial. In most cases “moot
court” programs are bad because they are built
around a question which is comic and because the
participants are unable to carry off the humor of
the situation. It is therefore recommended that
the problem selected be a serious one, both in the
interest of a successful program and because this
game 'is one of a series with a definite purpose of
stimulating debating activities.

A judge, a clerk, and two or three bailiffs and
guards should be selected either by the leader or
by a vote. It is recommended that a leader and a
team of three “lawyers” represent the prosecu-
tion, and a similar team for the defense. They
should be acquainted with the case and should be
allowed one or two days for the preparation of
argument and the location of witnesses. It is ad-
visable that the case for each side be divided
among the lawyers—one for the opening address,
one for the case itself, and one for the closing
address. The judge should be aided and en-
couraged to spend his time in learning how to
conduct the court and case. The jury should be
selected, as usual, from among the membership
with each side having the right to reject jurors.

It is recommended that the selection of the jury.

should be made only a short time before the case
is tried, and not in the presence of the audience.
This program has found a large response at the
Irene Kaufmann Settlement, and it is amazing to
see the amount of finish such a presentation ap-
pears to have. Several persons who saw a recent

“moot court” at the Settlement were under the .
impression that a script was written for it and
memorized. If possible, the trial should be pre- i
sented on a stage. The verdict should be taken‘

on a majority vote among the jurors since their
going out may keep the audience waiting too long.
At the Settlement, a staff advisor was used as the
foreman of the jury. He did not have a vote in
the verdict but supervised the voting. This pro-
cedure leaves eleven votes, and there is no danger
of a tie vote.

The Irene Kaufmann Settlement, under the lead-
ership of Sidney Teller, is conducting a broad
program of recreational, educational and cultural
activities. There may be readers of RECREATION
who will wish to secure from the Settlement some
of the interesting mimeographed material it issues
from time to time regarding its program.

Improving Our Rural Civilization

By the ever wider uses of leisure from the stand-
points of recreation, the fine arts and handcraft

zation may well be ap-

proached through better
uses of leisure time. Stating
it another way, recreation is
re-creation and it may be de-
fined as a realization of values
which make up a better life.

I MPROVING our rural civili-

At the Youth Section of the American
Country Life Association Conference
held at the University of Kentucky. lead-
ers from clubs and small groups which
had been holding local conferences to
consider methods of improving rural life
presented their findings. We quote here
extracts from the summary of the dis-
cussions which was published in the
January I939 issue of Rural America.

the encouragement of leader-
ship training. Consideration
should be given to the amount
of time for leisure, resources
at hand, ways of arousing in-
terest, means of coordinating
as well as capitalizing on dif-
ferences of separate natural
groupings which are a result

Appreciating this, living in
the country can be made
more satisfactory through the initiation and pro-
motion of a well-rounded program including play,
handicrafts, and fine arts, which reaches all peo-
ple whether or not they be in disadvantaged cir-
cumstances.

The chief aim of leisure-time activities should
be to provide satisfactory emotional and mental
adjustment with emphasis on physical betterment,
social behavior and character building. This can
be realized by an appreciation of the need for a
well-planned program which includes attention to
fine arts, utilization of the things about us in pro-
viding handicraft and hobby experiences, as well
as sports or athletics; a desire to carry through;
and cooperation of all in the community to pro-
vide needed equipment and
facilities; but most of all

An appreciation of beauty in nature is an im-
portant value in rural as well as urban life

of varying 'customs, tradi—

tions, racial or nationality traits, and religious be-
liefs. Special attention may also be directed to
finding sources of information already prepared
and available to those who look for it. Likewise
special talents and usable facilities often need to
be ferreted out.

Better uses of spare time may prove to be an
economic asset as well as a form of relaxation or
a means of increasing our esthetic values and
social satisfactions. This is particularly true in the
handicraft field but also applies to the other phases
when one considers increased valuation of the
home as emphasis is put on landscaping and beau-
tification. \Vise uses of leisure sometimes means
money income from painting, dancing, writing and
other fields which are usu-
ally considered fine arts.

 

Courtesy Iatc'a VVPA
517

518 IMPROVING OUR RURAL CIVILIZATION

Thus, the advantages to be gained from a well-
rounded recreational program looking toward the
improvement of rural life include development of
cultural satisfactions, greater appreciation of arts
and nature, opportunity for further education,
more friendly relationship in home and commu-
nity, a pride in self-development, and often times
a source of supplementary income.

Organizations' Contribution. Perhaps more can
be accomplished with organizations than in any
other way. The local club can develop leadership
through having all take an active part and en-
couraging attendance at leadership training
schools. However, some are not destined to be
leaders, but through promoting interest and pro-
viding activity much is accomplished which not
only helps the individual but acts as a stimulus
in the entire community.

Through certain types
of educational programs
people may become aware
of their needs. These are
more effective if based
on actual situations as as-
certained by a careful
sizing-up, often by the
questionnaire method.
Pamphlets and books are
helpful as a guide and
may be secured from
state or national agencies
as well as at local and
traveling libraries. Clubs

can and should make use of the pertinent informa-
tion which has been compiled. Demonstrations
and exhibits are other effective ways of teaching
young people, particularly if they assume the re-
sponsibility for preparing them. Along this same
line, contests may be sponsored to increase inter-
est and show what can be done. More recently the

use of radios and moving picture films or slides
has come into prominence.

tion of farming

Local club programs need variety to avoid mo-
notony. Therefore. it is essential that such phases
as plays, musical performances, emphasis on ap-
preciation of fine arts (painting, literature, music,
sculpture, architecture, etc.), handicrafts and hob-
bies, in addition to games and socials, have a dis-
tinct part in our club activity. It is fully realized
that organizations live only so long as there is in—
terest on the part of their members. Thus, they
need to provide what the people want, but is it not

"The local club can contribute much to raising
and stabilizing standards of living by encourag-
ing the improvement of health services for rural
people, working for better church programs,
using educational facilities and resources more
widely.and emphasizing a wholehea‘rted apprecia-
. . . . Community meetings shared
by different groups are an effective means of
making 'farming a way of life.’ All organizations
and institutions can be led to share such activi-
ties as beautification campaignsI establishment
and maintenance of local parks and recreation cen-
ters' staging community plays or hobby shows. or
even conducting informal educational programs."

time that clubs try to arrange programs which will
help them to want what they need?

Community Agencies' Part. The old saying, “a
chain is no stronger than its weakest link,” applies
well to our local communities. Every separate or-
ganization or institution has a distinct part and
can contribute a great deal to bettering present
conditions, but today the key to the situation in
many localities is the need for a coordinated plan
whereby each knows his place and thus avoids un-
necessary duplication and waste of energy, ex-
pense, and efficiency.

The libraries have worthwhile books, circulars,
magazines, and frequently even prints or paint-
ings which can and should be made available.
They often have the facilities for displaying ex-
hibits and providing educational programs for
many different interest groups. Special attention
might well be given to
organizing further their
materials on rural art, fic-
tion, drama, and the like.

Schools, on all levels
and in every location, can
do much to teach better
ways of using leisure
time through encouraging
people to work with their
hands as well as their
heads. Increased empha-
sis should be placed on
hobbies and handicrafts,
music appreciation and
participation, better understanding of architecture,'
painting, drama, and all of the other arts. Recre-
ation in the form of athletics seems to be getting
considerable attention, but the need for a well- 
rounded leadership training is sadly neglected at
the present time.

Churches can and in some cases do provide pro-
grams which include good organ music, choirs and
orchestras, worthwhile plays, as well as recrea-
tional numbers. They even may become the com-
munity centers around which all activity concen-
trates. Thus the church could serve the Scouts or
other similar organizations, sponsor informal edu-
cational classes, carry other vital programs in
addition to the various religious phases which
naturally head up there.

All other social and welfare groups may find
ways of making distinct contributions locally to
improve our rural civilization by an increased em-

i

IMPROVING OUR RURAL CIVILIZATION 519

phasis 011 further uses of spare time through
handicrafts, fine arts, and recreation. Many or-
ganizations can be encouraged to formulate pro-
grams with .varied activities that will better fill the
needs of all. Most of the work now lodges where
it is easiest done and where there are several
groups in the same. field.

It is highly desirable, therefore, to begin look-
ing at the whole local picture with representatives
from all the various groups to determine condi-
tions,gain community-wide cooperation, keep view-
points broad enough to fill the needs of all types
of people, set up definite goals and really work
toward them. It was stated that “before we can
work together, we must first learn to play to-
gether." This may be a suggestion for closer com—
munity cooperation. There may be necessity for
assistance in a large enterprise like this, but many
of the county, state, and national agencies are able
and willing to offer guidance and suggestions.
Also it must not be overlooked that the radio,
newspapers, and even theaters are having an in-
creasing place in extending horizons, formulating
viewpoints and promoting ideas.

Personal Responsibility. With reference to spe—
cific things that each individual in attendance at
the Conference could do to improve rural living,
the responses were stimulating;

( I) Take home ideas and information gained
at the meeting .and put them into effect
right away while still enthusiastic. (The
following references for information on
various leisure-time activities were given) :
National Recreation Association, 315 - 4th

Avenue, New York City

Cooperative RecreatiOn Association, Dela—
aware, Ohio

Home-Made Games, by Arthur H. Law-
son. (J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia,
1934)

Information on well-known pictures; Miss
Pottle, Western State Teachers College,
Macomb, Illinois

U. S. Film Service, National Emergency
Council, \Nashington, D. C.

Handbook, Youth Section, American Coun-
try Life Association, 297 — 4th Avenue,
New York City

Extension Service, Colleges of Agriculture
(in all the different states).

(2) Start a personal hobby and interest others
in hobbies. (A knitting club was mentioned

where participants did more than just make
things; they studied color and design as
well.)

(3) Spot leaders in community to help with
program—locate special talents and de-
ve10p others.

(4) Use demonstrations and exhibits to help
portray improvement. Home beautification
projects or teaching crafts are possibilities.

) Utilize materials at hand—prunes, raisins,
apples, corn husks, to make decorations,
party favors and the like.

(6) Promote an interest in securing leadership
training.

(7) Encourage development of leaders through
rotating committees.

(8) Help provide a recreational program which
includes enough of the background in folk
games, music, to give it added meaning.

(9) Start with simple things (this applies to all
recreation and crafts) then go to the more
complex.

(10) Provide material for handicapped children
by having club make scrapbooks, games,
handicraft articles and the like.

(11) Use motion pictures to depict objectives
(home beautification) .

(12) Conduct a tour to observe home beautifi—
cation and stimulate increased emphasis
upon improvement of homes and commu-
nity buildings and grounds. The local
paper, theater manager, and others might
help in sponsoring a contest.

(13) Emphasize or encourage appreciation of
good music (opera, symphony) and drama.
Invite a group to listen to the radio and
make a study of it by the use of such helps
as “The Victor Book of the Opera.”

(14) Utilize the radio for discussion or other
study groups, or start book clubs to develop
an appreciation of literature.

(I 5) Cooperate with older people in community
and encourage them to take part so that
they will not oppose program.

The group assembled appreciate that they are
leaders in their respective communities and it is
up to them to be tactful in getting others to help
formulate a real program which would fill the
needs of all concerned. In addition it is their job
to interest as many as possible and encourage them
to take part, first by living a fuller and richer life
themselves and second by giving others a boost
in their efforts.

(

’Jl

WORLD

Tm: Cur. ERA Cr. VI:
13113 3170 ted by the
Union County. New

1 -, . h ‘- "‘ “H
ersex . t 41's Lona. ts-

 

The Union County
Camera Club

 

. 9 C 9 _ .-
szon. an ontg‘n \wts. or a photograpa contest spon-

sored ‘tw the Ct -n~tnissi.\n several. years ago. has

met with unusual success. \Yhile the contest held
serves as an incentive to all camera owners to go
eat and snap pictures. the club goes much further.
an throng-3. lectures. demonstrations, tield tries.

.. 1
an: monthly competitions it helps these hobbyists
to take ph- tographs properly. The healthy growth
experienced by the club. as shown by the la ge

increase in “id mentbersaip without any active
ettcrt, is a sure Edi-cation of the worthwhile
wor ' the organization is doing in its aim “to pr. '—

d cultntte the art and science of phe-

1' 2-:-
..
—-

I;
u
w
('D
‘3

Tm: Department of
Parks of New York
City announces the
outing in December
.45 a new three-quart rs of 3:? acre playground in
Bronx Park—part 9' the development of property
transferred in 3957 by the
New York Rot nica‘. Gar-

" ‘ -
Let: t t.te Department or

New York Approaches
the 300 Mark!

 

December ushers in that delightful season -t
when children everywhere regard with wide-

AT PLAY

Parks. This new recreation area. providing a
completely equipped children's playground with a
walling pool. is the .298th new or reconstructed
playground completed by the l‘:.rlt Department
since 1034.

THE twenty—fifth offi-
cial municipal Christ-
mas tree celebration to
be held in Detroit,
-Iichigan. was conducted by the Recreation De—
partment on Christmas Eve of last year on the
City Hal lawn. A tableau depicting the stable in
which the three wise men and the shepherds found
the newborn King and the hon family was en-
acted on the steps of the City Hall. The Recrea-
tion Boys' Club gave a concert of Christmas
music preceding the program, and more than a
hundred boys and girls from the department's
singing gronl' s. dressed in red capes and caps.
3mg groups of carols. .\ patient from the chil—
.ren's convalescent home pn led the switch mak-
ing more t1; 1 ive hundred lights blaze on the
:ree. the charisters sang “0 Christmas Tree." and
at keeping with t te old tradition thirty—six girls

danced around the brightly

'igltted tree. A new and ef—

Detroit Celebrates
Christmas

“estive setting was evolved

eyed wonder the gifts showered upon them

 

Courtesy 1m W'PA

WORLD AT PLAY 521

for the tree, the gift of the Forty and Eight
Society, Voiture 102, American Legion. A ten
foot holly wreath, flanked by two huge red can-
dles tied with silver bows, faced \Voodward
Avenue. This was made entirely of salvaged ma-
terial at no cost to the city. Every leaf on the
holly wreath was made from discarded tin oil cans
gathered up at gas stations, cut by hand and
stamped with a hand carving press. The candles
were made from discarded scenery taken from the
recreation storeroom. The setting was designed
and constructed in the woodcraft division of the
department.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  

Michigan Fights Delinquency—As police
experience shows that crime is less rampant in
areas where boys are given recreational facilities
and a guiding hand, the Prosecuting Attorneys
Association of Michigan banded together last sum-
mer for a state-wide campaign to discourage
youth delinquency by sponsoring boys’ clubs
throughout rural Michigan. These clubs are to be
sponsored by police agencies, war veterans and
fraternal organizations in communities with a
three or four thousand population. In the knowl-
edge that the major percentage of crime in Michi-
gan is perpetrated by young men, the Association
wants to provide an outlet for excess energy
through clubs which will curb delinquency by di-
recting the boys in the right path. In order to
eliminate the unusual situation of an untrained
layman sitting in judgment on misdemeanor cases,
the Association also favored legislation which
would provide a county police court where such
. (11585 are now being heard by justices of the peace,
' I who may or may not be attorneys.

it Los Angeles Makes Softball History—Soft-
ball history was written on the evening of June
30th when the Los Angeles, California, Munici-
- pal Softball Association, sponsored by the Play-
ground and Recreation Department and the city,
staged its first annual softball jamboree in the Los
Angeles municipal colosseum. Sixty softball teams
'1 took part in the enormous sports spectacle which
.i was viewed by 25,000 people. The colosseum
' Ioor was blueprinted OE into six regulation size
softball diamonds in which thirty games were
played. Competition began at 6:00 P. 11., and all
gam€s ended exactly on the hour so that fresh
t-eams took possession of the various diamonds at
1 :00, 8 :00 and 9:00 o'clock. This is the fifth year
i the association in Los Angeles. It has grown

      

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP—TO-DGTE

VI rite for catalog of the DIAMOND
line of horseshoes and accessor'ws,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

 
       
      
 

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

£1. Grad 1m
DULUTH. XIII.

  
     

from a membership of 325 teams to 1,628 teams.

Boston Celebrates Columbus Day — The
447th anniversary of the landing in America of
Christopher Columbus was celebrated on Colum-
bus Day in Boston by an observance sponsored by
the Citizens’ Public Celebrations Association.
Outdoor public exercises were held on Boston
Common, and there was a colorful ceremony in
which Pan-Americanism was featured as it has
been since 1913. A procession, a Pan-American
flag ceremony, an escort of representatives of the
Pan-American countries, addresses, music, reci-
rations, and choral speaking made Up the pro—
gram. As a male there was an assembly of flags
and escorts.

Biking for Health and in Safety—As a part
of the Highland Park, Michigan. health education
program, a series of bicycle races were conducted
at eight playtields in the city. The director of
safety education and a member of the Recreation
Department supervised the eliminatim and finals.

The city of Dearborn was interested in bicycles
from another angle. “'orking in cooperation with
the Automobile Club of Michigan, the Depart—

522 WORLD AT PLA Y

\

ment of Recreation organized a bicycle Safety
Club, to promote safe cycling, at each city play—
ground. Each member agreed to obey all traf—
fic rules, to be on the alert, and to ride at a safe
speed, with one on a bicycle. Officials gave each
boy a membership card and reflectors for the rear
wheel guard. To protect the boys against theft, a
record was made of the serial numbers of their
bicycles. Bicycle jamborees were held at the close
of the playground season, featuring parades and
races.

The National Youth Administration in the
state of Michigan is another organization inter—
ested in the safety of children. Reports indicate
that thousands of youngsters were kept off city
streets during the summer by the promotion of
recreation facilities, under the sponsorship of the
National Youth Administration, is Saginaw, Hast—
ings, Port Huron, Owosso, Flint, Montreal
(Michigan), Detroit, Bending, Battle Creek and

other cities.

A BarbershOp Quartet Contest—With a Lit—
tle German Band to set the plush and gilt atmos—
phere of the Gay Nineties, the second annual bar-
bershop quartet contest was held at Oglebay
Park, near Wheeling, West Virgnia. Sigmund
Spaeth (known as “The Tune Detective”), after
speaking on the aspects of community music work
at the Oglebay Institute dinner, presided as mas-
ter of ceremonies in the contests. The specially
prepared stage setting included barber chairs, old
time shaving mugs, handlebar moustaches cellu—
loid collars and straight razor artists. After a
skit and some horseplay, two “barbers” and two
“customers” retired from the stage to act as judges
in the contest. One quartet after another, enter—
ing as customers, found the barbershOp deserted
and blended into song, singing the traditional
“mellerdramer” tunes of the Nineties which they
had chosen for their contest selections.

Know America — Recreation workers Will
want to acquaint themselves with the services of
the United States Travel Bureau maintained by
the National Park Service which are available
free of charge. It is possible to secure through
the Bureau descriptive booklets on national parks,
maps of the United States showing the location
of national and state forests, parks, game pre—
serves and Indian reservations, and beautiful pos-
ters of American scenes. In addition, recreation
workers may borrow free, except for transporta-

tion charges both ways, motion picture films show-
ing many subjects—tranSp0rtation, communica—
tion, sports, and scenes in the United States and
its territories and possessions. When making in—
quiries about films it is well to specify the par-
ticular section of the country or the subject de-
sired and whether the projector to be used is for
16 mm. or 20 mm. films.

The Bureau will also help with vacatiOn and
travel plans by furnishing information on where
to hunt or fish, where trailer camps are located,
what national parks and forests have free camp—
ing grounds, when Indian tribal ceremonials take
place, and how to travel by land. sea, or air. In-
quirers in the eastern section of the country
should address the United States Travel Bureau
at 45 Broadway, New York City; west of the
Mississippi the Bureau’s office in Sheldon Build—
ing, San Francisco, California, should be used.

Westchester County Holds Open House—
The fifteenth birthday celebration of the West-
chester County, New York, Recreation Commis—
sion, held on October 25, 1939, took the form of
an open. house, and all residents of the county
were invited to come to the county center to see
the activities of the Commission. Over 3,500 peo—
ple accepted the invitation. After greetings and
introductory remarks by Mrs. Eugene Meyer,
Chairman of the Recreation Commission, there
followed a program including spirituals sung by
the Westchester Negro Choral Union, chamber
music, an exposition of the modern dance, rhyth-
mic gymnastics, and exhibitions of ballroom danc-
ing and fencing. Around the auditorium were
arranged booths at which people gave demonstra—
tions of the many arts and crafts promoted in the
Workshop. In the Little Theater of the center
old—fashioned square dances with music by Sammy
Spring attracted many. The program closed with
a dancing program.

Camping for American Youth—The fact that
increasingly thousands of young Americans go
camping together each year brings the realization
of the tremendous influence this movement is
bound to have on American youth. It is the con—
cern of the American Camping Association that
this inHuence be made a positive, constructive one.

The Association will hold its 1940 meeting in
California in conjunction with the annual con-
ference of the Pacific Camping Association from

WORLD AT PLAY 523

January 25-27, 1940, at Asilomar, near Pacific
Grove, California. Many of the leading educators
and camping experts of the country will share in
the conference program, the general theme of
which will be “Implementing Democracy in Camp—
ing.” Important phases of camping will be con-
sidered through the medium of addresses, semi-
nars, demonstrations, and panel discussions. Among
the topics discussed will be Leadership—Quali—
fications, Recruiting and Training; Correlating
Camp, Home and School; Health and Safety; the
Arts in Camp; Business Administration and In—
surance, and many others. Further information

may be secured from Miss Carol L. Levene. 619
Sixteenth Avenue, San Francisco.

English Masques and Balls—The Christmas
festivities throughout the various centers of the
English Folk Dance and Song Society of America
will take the form of parties, balls, and masques,
and will make use of the rich and colorful store
of traditional folk dance material. In New York
a Christmas masque and ball will be held at the
Beekman Tower on December 15th at 8:30 P. M.
There will be country dancing for everyone, and
featured in the program will be the rarely per-
formed Morris Dance—the Bergomask Dance—
the Abbots Bromley Horn Dance, a Boar's Head
Processional, a special Christmas dance, and
carols. The Boston center will hold its Christmas
party at the Windsor School on December 15th
at 8:00 o’clock, and the program will include

i English and American country dancing, and spe-
cial interludes. The Washington, D. C., center
will have its party on the 16th,

3 These programs will be of special interest to
teachers and recreation leaders in search of ma-
terial for Christmas activities. Further informa—
tion regarding the program and tickets for these

i events may be secured from the English Folk
Dance and Song Society of America, I 5 East 40th
Street, New York City.

Pony Horseshoes—Three years ago Mike
Vernarsky, director on a Youngstown, Ohio,
playground, decided that if the eight to eleven-
year—old children on his playground had horse—
shoes lighter than the regulation ones they
would have a lot of fun playing the game. So
he bought a few pony shoes and put them in
a far corner. John H. Chase, Superintendent of

i Playgrounds, seeing the popularity of the
' horseshoes not only with the children but With

The Party Book

By MARY J. BREEN

0 There are parties for every age and every
taste in this attractive volume prepared for
the National Recreation Association by
Mary J. Breen, author of Partners in Play.
Dress-up parties, gala parties, parties that
just seem to happen, and games for every-
day parties when friends drop in, or for an
hour of fun after club meetings are all
described in this volume.

If you want a party planned to the last
detail with recipes for refreshments, it is
here. If you want only some games to
brighten up an evening, they are here too.
Whatever your needs, you will find this
book a handy reference when you are in
the party mood.

Price $2.50

Published by A. S. Barnes & Company
New York City. Available through the

National Recreation Association
315 FOURTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY

married women, in August of this year pro-
vided a set on every playground in the system.
During that hot, sultry month the pony shoes
clicked from the time the grounds opened until
they closed, and neighbors begged for the use
of the outfits overnight. Here are some sug-
gestions offered by Mr Chase:

“The shoes, called No. 2 in the trade, should
weigh fourteen ounces. Do not get lighter shoes
for they roll around and do not stick. Do not
buy heavier shoes for the younger children
cannot manage them. Stakes three-quarters of
an inch thick and two and a half feet long are
satisfactory. The distance between stakes
should be 25 feet. Rules are the same as in
regulation pitching except that the shoe
nearest the peg counts one point even if it is
farther away than the diameter of a shoe.”

Cadillac’s Toy Loan Center—On June 12th,
after a successful campaign for toys, the
Cadillac, Michigan, toy loan center opened its
doors under the auspices of the local VVPA
Recreation Division. The toys were put into
condition by the Recreation Division with the

524 WORLD AT PLAY

help of NYA; the Business and Professional
Women’s Club gave a cash contribution for
maintenance costs; and the Y.M.C.A. con-
tributed a large section of its second floor to
house the center. At the end of two months,
1,265 children had borrowed the 800 toys avail-
able, and 587 visitors had inspected the center.

“Corner” Playgrounds in Cincinnati—The
Public Recreation Commission of Cincinnati,
Ohio, reports that last summer the Commis-
sion extended its playground service to the
furthest corners of the city through the estab—
lishment of eight new playgrounds with a total
area of sixty-five acres. All of them, with the
exception of two, have been constructed on
properties transferred to the Recreation Com-
mission from other public bodies. Last summer
the supplementary budget of $23,500, in addi-
tion to the one-tenth mill levy voted by the
City Council for the playgrounds, has made
possible the operation of more than eighty
playgrounds and play centers. Play at the Air—
port Recreation Field has to date been more
than double the play of the preceding year.
The same is true of the California Day Camp,
now equipped with a shelter building and a
children’s pool. The 15 cents charge for eigh-
teen holes of golf for boys and girls has
brought hundreds of young players to Avon
Field and California golf courses. Free group
lessons and the rental of golf clubs for a
nominal sum have made it easy for young
people to take up the sport. This is also true
in tennis where boys and girls pay only 50
cents for the privilege of playing throughout
the season on the Commission’s 160 tennis
courts.

Flower Shows in a Rural County—The
Leisure Education Department of the St. Louis
County Rural Schools, Virginia, Minnesota,
has issued its 1938 Flower Show Yearbook
telling of the three year development in this
activity. Each year interest has grown in clubs
and classes in-which instruction is given in the
growing and arrangement of flowers and
flower appreciation until in 1938 there were
1,361 entries and 628 exhibitors. As a part of
the program of the flower shows colored slides
of flowers were shown, and there were lectures
on flower growing and arrangement. Musical

numbers and garden parties were included in
the program.

Manhattan’s Smallest Swimming Pool —
What is said to be the smallest swimming pool
in New York City is the 9 foot by 21 foot pool
at the Children’s Aid Society playground on
the East Side. The children using the pool are
in the kindergarten group of the Society’s
Avenue B center.

Expenditures for Sports—Some interesting
figures regarding expenditures for sports have
come from Thomas R. Shipp, Inc., \Vashing—
ton, D. C. Quoting figures issued by the
United States Census Bureau, Mr. Shipp lists
the fishing tackle industry from point of view
of production as an annual $15,000,000 enter-
prise. Golf runs a close second with a total
production of $13,797,080. Skating, witha total
output of $4,631,851, comes third; tennis, with
$4,628,897, fourth; and baseball, with $4,385,-
358, hfth. Skiing represents an investment of

$1,236,585-

When Funds are Low—Paul R. Elliott,
Director of Recreation, Kingsport, Tennessee,
writes that as awards at the local playgrounds
red, white, and blue ribbons have been used.
When funds ceased to be available for having
the titles printed on the ribbons it was found
by using a silk and rayon ribbon about an inch
and a quarter wide, bought from local llve and
ten cent stores at five cents a yard, that it was
possible to produce any caption desired with
a typewriter. It is necessary, Mr. Elliott points
out, in selecting blue ribbons to choose a light
shade so that the typewriter will show plainly.
Very successul results have been secured, and
the children greatly appreciate the attractive
ribbon badges.

.Recreation Area to be Extended—The new
Kiusi Park Bay Shore area in Alameda, Calif—
ornia, is to be increased in size from live to
twelve acres. It will be fully developed and a
community building costing $8,000 is to be
erected.

Somerville’s Program—The Recreation Com-
mission of Somerville, ' Massachusetts, iS

sponsoring 114 organized groups, exclusive of

t i
l
.‘
I

I/VORLD AT PLAY 525

Subscribe Now . . .

Don’t Miss a Single Issue . . . JUNIOR QRTS and QCTIUITIES

THE ONLY MONTHLY TEACHER'S MAGAZINE containing so much actual creative project material, activi-

ties and ideas for integrated classwork in the elementary grades! Now ranks among the best liked, most
useful and helpful magazines published in the interest of the teacher and pupil.

BRIMFUL OF MATERIAL TO HELP YOU IN YOUR WORK. JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES makes your work

easier, your pupils happier and their work more interesting. Intensely practical! Unequaled in amount of
usable project material in each issue. Created through collaboration of teachers and supervisors on the

 

firing line.

NEW . . . UP-TO-DATE . . . RELIABLE . . . USABLE . . . Every issue is brimful of full page (9in.x12 in.)
drawings, instructions and ideas for all types of required work. No teacher can afford to be without this

educational material to correlate with regular class studies. An essential to successful and happy teach-

ing. Teachers say, “It’s an inspiration.”

l0 THRILLING ISSUES CONTAINING MATERIAL
THAT MEETS YOUR NEEDS

Units, Activities Indutries
Pictorial Maps History
Health & Safety Geography
Dioramas, Posters Seatwork

Foreign Countries

Creative Art
Decorations, Crafts
Social Studies
Constructive Work
Book Reviews

Practical Suggestions, Ideas and Articles by Teachers

10 BIG NUMBERS only $2

 

JUNIQOR BRTS 6ND HCTIUITIES

740 Rush Street

the seasonal groups affiliated with summer
I playgrounds and Saturday morning neighbor—
hood playgrounds. These groups, which are
served by leaders or counselors under
the Recreation Commission, include men’s,
women’s, boys’, girls’, and youths’ organiza-
tions active in dramatics, photography, music,
crafts, softball, bowling, baseball, current
events, social activities, ping-pong, and a wide
variety of activities engaged in by the boys’
and girls’ clubs and other organizations
afliliated with the adult recreation centers. The
: current season in softball has enlisted seven
hundred men on teams in the leagues spon-
isored by the Commission.

Some Play Centers in Kansas City—On June
19th the Board of Education of Kansas City,
Missouri, opened ninety play centers in all
parts of the city divided on the following
basis: fifty-six playgrounds for white children;
zfourteen for colored; eight high school athletic

I fields for boys between sixteen and twenty
- ‘years of age and four special dancing centers
(for girls; eight playgrounds for pupils of

Chicago. Illinois

special schools. Almost four hundred play
leaders and supervisors are in charge of the
program.

Safety Their Concern—Sixteen Montreal,
Canada, children between the ages of eleven and
seventeen, chosen by their 5,000 playmates to
represent them, last August appeared before
the Montreal Police Traffic Bureau to discuss
with ofhcials the problem of youth safety on
city streets. These young mayors and safety
directors from seven playgrounds decided with
the police officials that the Iirst step to be
taken by the young people on their return to
school would be to approach their principals
with a request that teachers be asked to con-
duct courses in safety instruction. They
offered it as their opinion that moving pictures
were the best media for impressing safety in-
struction upon young minds. They also pro-
posed such safety campaigns as those con-
ducted in North American cities. The adults
at the meeting were surprised to learn the
degree to which these young citizens have
planned the methods whereby they are en-

526 WORLD AT PLAY

 

 

Holiday Parties I

Dorothy Gladys Spicer
$| .50

Party programs to cover the year. Each is based on a

folk, patriotic or religious festival and is complete

from invitations and decorations to entertainment
suggestions and refreshments.

By the author of the BOOK OF FESTIVALS

THE WOMANS PRESS
600 Lexington Avenue. New York. N. Y.

_____________—————-———_..—_—'—:.——————-————'———
forcing safety laws on their own playgrounds.

Garden Seed Made Available_The Recrea-
tion Bureau of Clairton, Pennsylvania, dis-
tributed garden seeds and fertilizer to 188
families in the city. These seeds were given
the Bureau for distribution by the Thrift
Garden Division of the Community Fund.

Roller Hockey in St. Louis—W. J. Giesler,
Boys’ Work Director at the St. Louis, Mis-
souri, Neighborhood Association, reports an
adaptation of ice hockey which he and his
assistant, Mr. Arthur Newman, have prepared.
It differs from the popular ice game chiefly in
the fact that the players scoot about on wheels
instead of steel blades, and the playing field is
a stretch of city pavement instead of a frozen
rink. The playing field is 120 feet long and the
Width of the street between curbs. A wooden
puck is used because it slides over the asphalt
pavement more easily than does a standard
rubber one. The Neighborhood Association
has organized a league composed of four
teams, and every Saturday from 10:00 A. M.
until noon a street block is closed to traffic by
the permission of the Police Department and
two games are played between league teams.

For Nature Hobbyists—Groups of both boys
and girls in Essex County, New Jersey, who
are interested in nature lore were taken last
summer to the South Mountain Reservation
for day camping experiences which involved
cooking over outdoor fires. Practice in this
art was given at the playgrounds where the
children were taught how to cook with fires
using the least amount of wood. Instruction
was also given in the making of such simple

camp gadgets as cup trees, swinging cranes,
pot hooks, plate racks, and lifters, as well as
the laying and building of the back log and
the trapper’s fires.

A Community Christmas Party
(Continued from page 492)
men and women alternating. To the tune of

“Jingle Bells,” “For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow,”
or other appropriate melodies, the line proceeds
to march around the hall. Voluntarily all will join
in the singing. During the march the players
should be asked to place one or both hands on the
shoulder of the person in front of them. Other
march variations could also be added.

On passing St. Nick, who is now standing at
one side of the Christmas tree, he or his helpers
hand each person one of the gifts which were col— -
Iected at the door and deposited under the tree
earlier in the evening. If gifts are. hung on the
tree a poster, “Help Yourself to a Gift” is
displayed.

The opening of these gift packages is an ex-
citing moment for all. Do emphasize on your in-
vitation the importance of their costing not more
than ten cents.

Refreshments

What community holiday party would be com-
plete without the usual distribution of bags filled
with apples, oranges, nuts, hard candies, and other
holiday goodies. If, however, one wishes to have
more elaborate refreshments there could be punch
served from a wassail bowl, cookies, stick apples,
or p0pcorn balls, which are all very appropriate.

Let’s Sing Again
At the close of the party gather around the

piano, tree or fireplace and sing Christmas carols.
It will help in making your party a lasting memory.

References
Listed below are a number of publications of
the National Recreation Association which may be
of additional help to you in making plans for“
your party.
“Christmas Carols. Includes the words of ten of the
more popular carols. 80¢ per hundred copies .
“Christmas Music.” List of Christmas music prepared
in the hope that it will provide helpful source material
for communities and groups planning their Christmas
celebrations. 5¢

“Christmas Windows.” Directions for making window
transparencies and silhouettes. Free

l
1

l

CHRISTMAS IN HARTFORD

“Make Your Own Christmas Tree Ornaments.” 10¢
“The Party Book,” by Mary J. Breen. A complete book
on party planning. Includes a Yuletide Frolic and a
Christmas Party. $2.50
“The Party Books,” by Ethel Bowers. 50¢ each, or $1.00
for the set of three.
Parties—Plans and Programs
Parties for Special Days of the Year
Parties—Musical Mixers and Simple Square Dances
“Stories of the Christmas Carols.” 10¢

A City Celebrates Christmas in Drama
(Continued from page 493)
broadcast of the production over station WAGA.

“The Divine Promise” has been called Atlanta’s
biggest stage spectacle. It is further significant
because there was not the slightest tinge of com-
mercialism in the undertaking. It was sponsored
by the City of Atlanta, through a resolution of the
council, which appointed a Citizen's Advisory
Committee under the chairmanship of one of At-
lanta’s leading ministers. The “(PA Recreation
Division provided the technical direction, with the
c00peration of the Sewing Rooms and Engineer-
ing Division of the WPA. The City Council pro-
vided funds for the purchase of costume materials
and other items.

After the performances, the man,who intro-
duced the original resolution to City Council—
Mr. John A. White, Chairman of Atlanta’s Audi-
torium Committee — introduced a second one
which would establish “The Divine Promise” as
Atlanta’s Annual Civic Christmas Pageant. The
resolution was passed unanimously.

Modernizing the Christmas Legend
(Continued from page 494)

(Excludes commercial buildings, clubs, etc.,

with almost unlimited possibilities.)

7. There will be only one classification of homes,

regardless of size or value. (Eliminates con-

troversy as to which classification homes
should be entered in.)

8. Judges will tour the city between December
26 and December 31. (No definite time given
so as to encourage keeping displays lighted
through the holidays.)

0. Judges will have individual score sheets and

will judge on the following points: General

artistic effect, 50 per cent; originality, 25 per
cent; conformity to Christmas spirit, I 5 per

cent; ingenuity in utilizing surroundings, 10

per cent, thus placing all homes on an equal

mathematical basis. (Gives the small home an

(Continued on page 528)

527

Christmas in Hartford

ARTFORD’S NATIVITY SCENE, the life size out-
door tableaux that was viewed by half a
million persons in a two weeks period last Christ-
mas, has been remodelled and enlarged for its
second season.

WPA and Park Department artisans have been
working on it since last spring, and, when it has
its unveiling in a few weeks, it will be more
elaborate and complete than ever and located in a
new setting selected because of greater visibility.
It will again be in Bushnell Park in the heart of
Hartford’s business district and almost in the
front yard of the State Capitol. However, instead
of nestling into the sloping hillside, the imposing
reproduction of the birth of Christ in the Beth-
lehem stable will be mounted on a special plat-
form that Will be built across the face of the city’s
magnificent Music Shell. There, against a back-
ground of stately New England elms, shadowed
by towering business buildings and facing a wide-
expanse of sweeping lawn, it will be on display
from December 19 to the night of January I.

The Nativity Scene was the conception of Di-
rector of Recreation James H. Dillon, who co-
ordinated the interests and labors of his and other
municipal departments with the Work Projects
Administration and private business to create the
striking spectacle.

The remodelled scene will be enhanced this year
by a specially designed system of illumination that
has been devised by the united efforts of Wilfred
D. Gorman, lighting engineer of the Hartford
Electric Light Company, Professor Stanley Mc-
Candless, of the Yale University Department of
the Drama, and W. W. Williams, state art di—
rector of the Work Projects Administration. The
new system will lend a lifelike reality to the plaster
figures.

An enlarged stable scene once more will be the
central motif with plaster characters, slightly
larger than life, representing the Christ Child, the
Blessed Virgin and St. Joseph as the Holy Family
group before whom kneel the \Vise Men of the
East and the lowly shepherds. Gaily decorated
camels and grazing Hocks lend a natural atmos-

-phere to the setting, while snow white doves perch

overhead and a crowing cock holds a commanding
pose near the entrance. A hand painted back-
ground provides a panoramic view of the sleep-
ing town of Bethlehem in the distance.
Hartford’s scene, which is the center of the
municipal observance of the Yuletide, has aroused

528 THE PROGRESS OF DEARBORN

"KEEP THE REUIIRD”

of the Twenty-Fourth National Recreation
Congress at Boston by ordering a copy of

the Proceedings just off the press.

The Proceedings contain the main
addresses, summaries of discussion
groups, findings of committees, and other

important information about the Congress.

0 Copies are available at $1.00

each plus postage from

N A T I O N A L
RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

315 Fourth Avenue
New York City

tremendous interest among park and municipal
officials, and since its inception a year ago has
brought a fiood of inquiries to the Hartford de-
partment from as far away as the Middle West

and Pacific Coast.

Modernizing the Christmas Legend
(Continued from page 527 )
equal opportunity with the large home.)

I 0. Homes entered in previous contests and win-
ning prizes will not be eligible for a prize this
year unless the decorations have been changed
from previous years. (Tends to rotate the
prizes each year.)

. The decisions of the judges will be final.

The entry blank asked for the name and ad-
dress of the contestant as well as whether they
had entered in previous years and won a prize.
No, we were not swamped with entries (from

II

thirty to fifty for our city 'of 65,000 seems a good.

average), and after discovering the reason we
were not disappointed. Some people decorate but
do not care for the publicity; others had a tree
or wreath in the window and did not feel it worthy
of entering. Many had interior decorations that

were not prominent from the street, but all were
encouraged whether they entered or not to show
some greeting in light: a colored light in the porch
fixture, an electric candle in the window, a tree
outside the house outlined with strings of light,
window transparencies or silhouettes. Well over
fifty per cent of the homes in the city cooperated,
and with the merchants festooning the business
district the Christmas season took on a beautiful
and deeper meaning.

The Progress of Dearborn
(Continued from page 497)
that much of the public attitude and participation
depends on the publicity.

One of the biggest single jobs was the creating
of the stage and its coordination with lighting and
sound. We knew what we wanted and finally
hired a professional stage man and a professional
artist to take charge with our stage director. Ama—
teur contributors also helped here, but our main
force of workmen was contributed by city de-
partments.

Parallel to the growth of the pageant was the
development of a project undertaken by the chil—
dren at the city playgrounds. They combined play
with their measure of participation in the celebra-
tion and produced, in wood, cardboard, copper,
and clay, the scenes from the pageant. Each play-
ground took an episode and producedfigures and
scenes of early Dearborn. The entire group of
models was placed on display the week of the
celebration.

On the day before the pageant, when all the
scenery had been set up, there was a torrential
downpour. It did not seem possible that the stage ;
and the water-soaked, washed out scenery, the
broken framework, and stage equipment could be '-
restored in twenty-four hours so that the pageant
could be presented the following night. The Com-
missioner of Public Works surveyed the wreck-
age and eventually promised that it would be.
ready for the production. He sent for four car-
penters who were engaged in building his neW'
home to augment the city force, and then he called.
the Ford Motor Company for more carpenters.
They set to work immediately, tearing apart the
broken sections of the scenery. New lumber ar—‘
rived in a truck, new bunting and canvas for
scenery came with a rush.

Within four hours the wreckage had been
cleared away and the framework for a new set
was in place. Into the night, the scenery builders

A CITIZENS" COMMITTEE REPORTS 529

tacked on new cloth and rebuilt scenery. Under
floodlights painters redecorated the washed-out
properties. Meanwhile, Mr. Ford had appeared,
and he promised to send an air-brush outfit the
next morning to repaint the rest of the scenery.

Before noon of the day of the pageant, the
entire 185 foot stretch of the border had been re-
painted. Other painters had gone over damaged
back drops and sets. By late afternoon only a
few finishing touches remained. When the first
of the audience arrived at 6:30 that evening, no
trace of the terrific damage of the storm remained.

Every available inch of space on the banks sur-
rounding Ford Field, where the pageant was
given, was Iilled, the level ground was jammed
with eager celebrants. Thousands had been tUrned
away. The crowd had come prepared to see some-
thing interesting. They saw a colorful, massive
spectacle of the growth and progress of a city; of
the changes in its aspect of one hundred years of
history, and inseparably mingled with it, and to a
great extent determining the history of that city,
the life of Henry Ford.

It was a birthday party and community celebra-
tion long to be remembered, both by the record
crowd which attended and the cast, technicians,
and directors who worked so hard to‘ make it a
success.

Recreation for Public School Teachers
(Continued from page 498)

movies. travel, driving, book reviews, clubs, camps,

theaters, and art galleries.

Answering “I would enjoy additional recrea-
tion activities but do not, because I am handicap-
Ded by”: the teachers listed lack of funds (placed
first by two-thirds of the group), lack of transpor-
tation, extracurricular activities, home duties, lack
of time, and health.

Few teachers. according to the previous in-

. quiries, had engaged in athletics to any extent, but
replying to the call for a SUggested recreation
program, the majority wanted sports—swimming,
Egolf, tennis, bowling, and skating. The rest of the
list was varied, including social dancing, gym-
nasium work, book reviewing, arts and crafts,
parliamentary law, nature study, and casting.
The final inquiry dealt with the courses which
ithe teachers wished to institute in the curriculum
!of Kansas City Teachers College. Much interest
’Was shown in' an individual sports class in which
instruction would be offered in various sports
.having a definite carry-over value. Social recrea-
gtion was their second choice; folk dancing and

 

 

A Citizens' Committee Reports

THE CiTizENs’ COMMITTEE appointed by the
Mayor to investigate the operations and ex-
penditures of the Chicago Park District has made
its report which is now available in printed form.
Its findings and recommendations point out nu-
merous desirable improvements. It is satisfied,
however, that “under park consolidation Chicago
is receiving more and better returns from expendi-
tUres for park purposes than under the old system
of separate park districts and that the present
standard of park operations, in general, meets with
the approval of the citizens of Chicago.”

The five Commissioners of the Chicago Park
District, according to the report, have replaced
with one authority the former divided authority
of I 10 park commissioners, and in the short space
of less than four years they have succeeded in CO-
ordinating the activities of the superseded
parks into a single, efficient operating unit.
When park consolidation became effective May
1, 1934, the twenty-two superseded districts had
$127,138,306.93 outstanding in fixed and current
liabilities. Eighteen of the districts were in default
as to bonded indebtedness, and nine were in ar-
rears in employes’ wages. Three years and eight
months later the Chicago Park District had ef-
fected a net reduction of $23,692,594.63 in total
debts. Under present plans these liabilities will be
reduced at the rate of $5,000,000 a year, unless
there is a serious reduction in tax collections. The
funding and refunding program under which these
striking results have been obtained was well
planned.

The boundaries of the Chicago Park District
coincide with the boundaries of the City of Chi—
cago. It has superseded twenty-two separate park
districts which, prior to May I, 1934, covered all
but twelve of the 212.8 square miles of the city.
In 1937 the total park, playground and boulevard
acreage in the city totalled 7,107.36 acres, of
which 6,818.84 acres are properties of the Chicago
Park District. The City Bureau of Parks has con—
trol of 206.5 acres in its seventy-seven parks.
parkways and squares, and the sixty playgrounds
of the Board of Education cover 82.02 acres.
Only the Park District’s properties of 6,818.84
acres are studied in this report. Exclusive of bou-

levards, the actual park areas total 5,473.6 acres.
————_.________________"—“—"_—-————-_-—————————
clogging, third ; dramatics, fourth; playground
planning and administration, fifth; games of high
and low organization, sixth; and handicraft,
seventh.

530 JANUARY FIRST——HOSPIT.-4LITY DAY!

  
  

Subscription
Price

$2.00

  

§choof dqctiuittm

HARRY C. McKOWN. Editor
C. R. VAN NICE. Managing Editor

    
 
   
 

A Journal of Ideas and Projects for the School as a

CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP LABORATORY

in which

Student Council, Clubs, Home Rooms, Athletics,
Music, Debate, Publications, Trips, Dramatics,
Assembly, Financing Activities, and Social
Functions make democratic settings and life
situations typical of the American way of living
and working together.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING CO._

1515 LANE STREET - -

TOPEKA, KANSAS

 

 

Courses Planned

With this information at hand we felt that we
had much better knowledge of what was needed
in recreation for teachers. After tabulating the
results, we initiated a course in individual sports,
their first choice, at Teachers College. On a se-
lection made by the students instruction was given
in golf, archery, bowling, table tennis, dart base—
ball, paddle tennis, deck tennis, shuffleboard.
tether ball, and aerial darts. Trips were made to
the driving tee for golf and to the bowling alley
for bowling instruction. Lectures and demonstra—
tions were given during the course by various city
champions. Other activities included in the course
were hand tennis, handball,-casting, riding, skat—
ing, fencing, swimming, tennis, and lawn bowling.

The course proved so successful that the teach—
ers asked that it be continued for another semes—
ter, suggesting that it be enlarged this fall. If
possible the extension of the course will include
the other interests indicated by the teachers, so
that in the end each one can formulate a well-

rounded program of personal recreation of his own

choosing, and composed of activities he enjoys.

January Flak-Hospitality Day!
( C ontinucd from page 500)

The program is really a favor, because the
guests will take it home as a memento of the oc-
casion. Don’t worry for fear your guests won’t
have any supper because they can’t finish the
“test.” A little friendly cooperation, and the New
Year’s sentiments or scrambled menu are soon
deciphered.

When they reach the dining room, after pass—
ing the “entrance exams,” the guests find a table
spread with a buffet supper. The centerpiece is a
square mirror upon which has been placed a half ‘
dozen red balls tied together with wire (attached
to the metal rings used to hang them from the
Christmas tree). The. mirror reflects the balls,
and the bright, sprightly effect is all you could
desire of a Christmas centerpiece. Or you could
purchase a small artificial white Christmas tree
which stands about twelve inches high and hang
tiny red balls upon it. A still simpler but effective
centerpiece is a bowl of evergreens and bitter-

sweet. ‘
After the buffet supper your guests will be

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 531

willing to be entertained. Get out your table
games which can be placed on the bridge tables
after the dishes and luncheon covers have been
whisked away, and spend the evening at games
such as parchesi, checkers, roulette and Chinese
checkers. If you rotate the games, every person
will have a chance to play each. Paper games such
as Consequences, Guggenheim, compiling as many
words as possible from a long word or phrase,
listing the names of cities or rivers which begin
with a specified letter of the alphabet, are the old
tried and true games which your guests, even the
children, will enjoy.

Then, in keeping with the holiday season, they
must sing carols to bring your open house to a
happy conclusion. Some one might have to play
on the piano for a stanza of the first carol, but
after that your guests will all join in. After they
have started singing—Hand they won’t need carol
books because they will select the old ones which
everyone knows—turn down the lights. Over on
the mantel your decorations will spring into life.
In each house has been concealed a light connected
to a master switch. The blue paper sky has been
punched with a small nail and the outline of a
moon cut out over in one corner. Now‘the reason
why the “sky” had to be three inches away from the
wall is apparent—there must be room to put blue

- Christmas tree lights along the ledge at the bottom
in back of the paper. When these lights are turned
on, with the Christmas tree lights, the rest of the
room can remain in darkness. As the guests sing
their favorite carols, they seem to be gazing at a
real miniature village spread before their eyes, the
sky dotted with twinkling stars and the moon
looking down on little cottages, the windows il—
lumined with lights which will have the singers
half believing that their owners are comfortably
ensconced behind them!

Athletics for Industrial Workers
(Continued from page 501)

‘_-W— v ——-

Committees

The president appoints all committees necessary
to direct the functions of each activity of the
Association. Members are selected from the vari—
311s companies and the large staff of the Recrea-
ion Department according to their interest and
bility. At present we have committees on Bas-
retball, Softball, Swimming, Bocci, Horseshoes,
Baseball, Table Tennis, Lawn Tennis, Badminton,
l

l I

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles 2

     

of Interest to the Recreation Worlter

      

MAGAZINES

The Research Quarterly of the American Association for
1Iagglth, Physical Education, and Recreation, October
“The Development of Public Recreation in Metro—
politan Chicago” by Elizabeth Halsey. A histori-
cal statement.
“A Survey of Recreational Interests and Pursuits of
College Women" ‘by Ruth Toogood

Parks and Recreation, October 1939

“The Problems of the Park Executive” by Allyn R.
Jennings

“Use of Trailers in Recreation Areas” by Frank
T. Gartside

Public Management, September 1939

“How the New WPA Act Affects Cities” by Earl
D. Mallery, Executive Director, American Munici-
pal Association, Chicago. Reports from ten cities
indicate how the recent changes in. WPA legisla-
tion will increase the local relief burden.

School and Society, October 21, 1939
“Social Competence” by A. R. Brubachcr

The Nation’s Schools, September 1939

"When Park and School Systems Work Together”
by Robert F. Everly and John McFadzean

“Planning the Play Areas” by Thomas Lyon White,
Syracuse, N. Y.

“Surfacing the Playground” by C. L. Crawford,
Business Department Public Schools, Muskegon,
Michigan

“How Much Light?”

“Public Relations Tasks for Teacher Organizations”
by Lyle W. Ashby, Assistant Director, Division
of Publications, National Education Association

The Camping Magazine, October 1939

“Group Work in Camping” by Henry M. Busch

“Camp Safety” 'by Wilbur S. Russell

“VVorkmen’s Compensation Insurance”—A Compari-
son of State Rates for hotel employees, private
camp employees, organizational camp employees,
and professional and other employees in educa-
tional institutions.

“What Parents Expect of Camp Counselors” by
Christina E. Pennington

PAM PH LETS

Specifications for the Annual [Municipal Report, by Clar-
ence E. Ridley and Herbert A. Simon—Suggestions
for the content, preparation, design, publication, and
distribution of the annual municipal report. There is a
brief outline of a report on Recreation. Other phases
of the publication should be helpful to recreation

executives.

Published by the International City Managers’ As-
sociation, 1313 East 60th Street, Chicago, Illinois,

1939. Price $1.50

25 Years of 4-H Club Work—Analysis of Statistical
Trends with Special Reference to 1938 by Barnard
Joy, Agriculturist, Extension Surveys and Reports.
Contains interesting information for those who are

working in relation to the Boys’ Club.
Write for Extension Service Circular 312, 1939, U.
S. Department of Agriculture, Extension Service,

Washington, D. C.

532 MILK SHAKE NIGHT CLUB

Annual Reports I '
Playground Report 1939, Steubenville, Ohio

Playground and Recreation Department, 1938—1939,

San Diego, California
Berkeley Recreation Department, 1938-1939, Berke—

ley, California _ . _ .
Recreation Commiss1on, Highland Park, Michigan.

May 1938~May 1939

Fortieth Report of the Park Commission of Essex

County, New Jersey, 1938
Newark, New Jersey

Seventy-Eighth Annual Report, The Buffalo Society of
Natural Sciences, 1938-1939
Buffalo, New York

Announcement of Activities, Season 1939-1940
Jewish People’s Institute, 3500 Douglas Boulevard,

Chicago, Illinois
Report of the Committee on Recreational Activities of
the Commissioners of Fairmount Park for the Year 1938
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

 

 

 

Handball, Track and Field, Soccer and miscel-
laneous activities.

Committees are also selected for finance, con-
stitution, and'publicity. The latter committee did
a fine piece of work in keeping all the local papers
informed as to the daily activities and results and
standings of the various teams during the past
winter.

The annual dues are $1.00 per year for each
organization. The entry fee for each activity is
determined by the Board of Education.

League Play

Our basketball league was a tremendous suc—
cess. Twenty—five teams, grouped according to
their relative playing ability in four divisions,
played for four months, play—off games being
necessary to determine the winner in each group.
Thousands of spectators paid a fifteen cent ad-
mission fee to see four games each night in the
two W'est Side High School gymnasiums. Mem—
bers of the National Board of Approved Basket-
ball Officials officiated at all games with two men
on each contest.

A softball and baseball league were initiated
with our first industrial track meet held in June
in the Newark Schools’ Stadium. In the past we
have held sectional track meets, and they have
been of interest to the concerns and their em-
ployees. Along with this we also supply athletic
service kits with advice as to the organization of
plant play programs on hikes and picnics. Several
concerns have taken advantage of this arrangement.

NOTE: By the end of October there were forty
organizations represented in the membership of
the Industrial League.

Volleyball—Pepular American Game
(Continued from page 502)
mixer. It is one of the most popular of co-educa-

tional and co-recreational sports.

When one considers the hundreds of leagues,
the thousands of tournaments, and the many or-
ganizations and groups interested, the many indoor
and outdoor places and occasions where volleyball
is played, one feels confident in saying that with
bowling, tennis, golf, softball, basketball, and
baseball, volleyball ranks in the ten great Ameri-
can games that people play for recreation and
enjoyment.

Milk Shake Night Club

(Continued from page 505)
ester young people. Attractive indeed is the ad-

mission price of twenty-five cents per person, with
no “stags” allowed, and all young men required
to wear suit coats. Popular orchestras are en-
gaged and volunteer entertainment is welcomed.
Anyone attending the Youth Garden may provide
entertainment. novelty or otherwise. Many an en-
terprising vocalist has made a first public appear-
ance in this manner. Rochester radio stations
have made numerous spot announcements, and
WHEC broadcasts regularly direct from the
Youth Garden.

“Sit and sip—self—service” is the refreshment
theme. Tables are appropriately arranged, each
with popular candlelight for atmosphere. The
soda bar and milk bar are prominent, with a wide
variety of soft drinks and ice cream for those who
wish refreshments. A recent estimate revealed
that the average couple spends seventy—five cents
an evening—Fifty cents for admission and twenty-
live cents over the counter for refreshments. And
attendance has averaged two hundred young peo—
ple on Wednesday evenings, and four hundred on
Saturdays. Though primarily by and for youth,
the Garden is open to all and operates under the
phiIOSOphy that attitude, not age, is the determin- ‘
ing factor: “If you like to dance, you’re young.”

A staff of unemployed young people receives
modest remuneration for their assistance to mem—
bers of the Council in manning the ticket window,
entrance, soda and milk bars, and check room.
Each of the member organizations of the Youth
Council in turn assumes sponsorship of a par-
ticular night, when that group takes over re-‘
sponsibility.

Live wire young people have thus produced?
tangible proof that they can, and will do something

IS SKI JUMPING DANGEROUS? 533

for themselves. The Youth Garden has served a
multiple purpose: it has tested youthful ambi—
tion and initiative; it has proved that liquor is not
essential in youthful co—recreation; and it has
offered the kind of recreation many young people
want at a price they can pay. As a going concern
it is demonstrating that worthwhile objectives can
be obtained through hard work and resourceful—
ness. Originally designed as a summer project, the
Garden is now planned as a full time venture on
Saturday nights throughout the year.

“we sipped chocolate milk, shagged to swing
music, gossiped over a candle—lit table, and had a
wonderful time.” - That’s the story of a young
couple’s night at the Youth Garden, and the an-
swer of young people who have made their own
wholesome fun in the face of continually faltering
economics.

The Harmonica in the Recreation

Program
(Continued from page 507)
outlets. In about one hundred and fifty of the

three hundred schools, interested teachers assist
the children by practicing with them.

Many opportunities are provided for these
groups to appear in public through the medium of
Parent—Teacher Association meetings, school as-
semblies, and community meetings. The big thrill
* comes, however, through the courtesy of radio
i station KECA. Time is provided every Satur-
j day morning in which the various harmonica
' groups present a program over the air. This is
proving an educational opportunity not to be over—
I looked.

To satisfy the query “How do we sound?” ex—
periments have been made in recordings. Several
groups have made records of their playing at
various stages, and by comparison they are able
to note their progress and correct their mistakes.
This, however, is going beyond the original pur-
pose of the harmonica band, for it is not of
primary importance that the child becomes an
‘ outstanding player or that the group becomes pro—

fessional in its accomplishment; but to those who

wish to become expert the recordings have been
found to be of considerable help.

As has been said before, the intention and pur-
pose of harmonica bands is to provide the child
with an entering wedge to music. How far he
goes in the musical field depends upon the culti-
vation of an interest. All too often this interest
has died when approached from the painstaking

ls Ski Jumping Dangerous?

“T0 TIIE MAJORITY of the thousands who wit-
ness major jumping competitions each year
throughout the country, this phase of the sport
is probably the most hazardous. It would seem
to these people that the jumpers who in every-
day life will be found in all walks of life,
from plumbers to business executives, must be
lacking in gray matter. These men and boys who
constitute the nucleus of the jumping fraternity
in this country do not seem to look upon their
pastime with any feelings of imminent danger.
They sometimes spend hours preparing their skis
so as to get every last bit of speed from them,
before taking their turn on the hill. Before leav-
ing the take-off they summon all their strength in
driving their bodies far out into space as they
soar over the crowds below. Snow conditions are
often far from desirable and rather than disap—
point the spectators who have gathered for the
meet, they often go on with the show when the
track more closely resembles a skating rink than
a ski jump. There must be some reason for sane
people to do these things and there is only one
answer. They jump because they love to jump.
More than one would prefer to risk his neck on a
60-meter jump than go veering down throngh a
tree-bordered down—mountain run. If one will
dig into the statistics on jumping accidents, it will
be discovered that the number of accidents is sur-
prisingly small, in fact so small that by compari-
son with downhill running, it would appear that
one is just as safe, if not safer, pursuing this
pastime as is one who confines his skiing to the
fast—dropping trails. One of the highest jumps in
this country is Intervales at Lake Placid. It has
a rating of 60 meters and was the scene of the
world championships during the 1932 Olympics.
Also located near it is a 30—meter jump. Both of
these have been in use for several years and
records have been maintained for all competitions
held on them. These records show that in the
course of more than 5,000 descents, only three
accidents involving bone fractures occurred.

“This may help to show why the jumpers love
their sport and that it is not as dangerous as many
believe. As soon as the fear of ski jumping is
dispelled, more American youths will take up the
sport and America will turn out a better crop of
jumpers.”—From “Winter Sports Bulletin Ser-
vice," Massachusetts State College.

534 AUSTIN’S SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA

    
 

   

Give
CHBRBCTER and
CITIZENSHIP

WHAT better gift for a man or
woman upon whose shoulders rest
the responsibility for training the citi-
zen of tomorrow? What parent, recrea-
tion director, Y leader, church worker,
Boy and Girl Scout leader and teacher
would not be pleased to receive a gift

such as the magazine CHARACTER
and CITIZENSHIP—a gift that Wlll

serve as a genuine aid to them in their
work of deveIOping healthy young minds
and bodies?

CHARACTER and CITIZENSHIP
is unique in its field, serving as a clear-
ing house of education for character and
citizenship. The magazine brings to its
readers each month vital articles by au-
thorities in the field of character develop-
ment and citizenship training and induc-
tion, and four feature sections—“Keep-
ing Up with the Magazines,” “News
From the Field,” “Books —Good and
Not So Good,” and “Through the Ages.”

Some of the foremost leaders in the
country are working on the Editorial

Board of CHARACTER and CITI-
ZENSHIP.

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
    

Special Christmas Gift
Subscription Rates

Take advantage of the special rates
offered for the holiday season—give

CHARACTER and CITIZENSHIP to

each of your friends and give one to
yourself, too.

       
       

. . .$2.00

Two one-year subscriptions. . . . . . . 3.00

 
 

Single one-year subscription. ..

 
 

Additional one-year subscriptionsI
each $|.50

 
   
   

   

Send your orders to

Character and Citizenship
5732 Harper Ave., Chicago, Ill.

    
 

   

and necessarily long periods of instruction on in—
struments more intricate and difficult to master.

May we present harmonica playing from a rec-
reational standpoint and trust that those who
otherwise would be dependent upon others for
musical pleasures will find a pleasant form of
mental and physical relaxation of their own mak-
ing through this mediUm.

Austin’s Symphony Orchestra
(Continued from page 509)

tunity to enjoy their musical training after they
have completed their courses in public schools,
colleges, and music schools. .

Conductor Buytendorp refrains from any indi-
vidual or private instruction. If a person is not
quite qualified for the symphony, he must secure
his necessary training and then he may again try
out for the orchestra.

There are men and women of wealth, business
men and women, music teachers, laborers, college
students, and high school students playing in the
orchestra. The orchestra is made up of Austin
itself, and it is the entire municipality that is sup—
porting it. Shouldn’t Austin be proud of it?

The‘ Society of Recreation Workers

of America
(Continued from page 510)

cently elected to the office of president of the
Institute of Park Executives.

All recreation workers interested in becoming
members of the Society of Recreation Workers
of America are urged to communicate with
Arthur T. N oren, Secretary, City Hall, Elizabeth,
New Jersey.

A Message to Recreation Workers
(Continued from page 511)

plished largely through geographical organiza-' i

tions, through which an opportunity for individual
participation in professional activities is afforded.
This means of membership promotion may be
supplemented by individual effort on the part of
each member.

As the member whom you have honored by
election to the office of President for the current
year, I extend to the entire membership my sin—
cere greeting, and express my desire to fulfill the
obligations of the office to the best of my ability.
With the collaboration of the able officers who
have been elected to serve with me and with the
assistance of the entire membership, I look for—
ward to a year of noteworthy achievement for the
benefit of our profession.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

The Party Book

Prepared for National Recreation Association by Mary

J. Breen, author of Partners in Play. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $2.50.

ISS BREEN’S new book makes any party lively,” says

the New York l/Vorld-Telegram in its enthusiastic
review of The Party Book. You, too, will feel that the
informality and spontaneity of the programs offered will
insure gaiety and success for any party programs you
may select from Miss Brecn’s book. There is a wide
range of choice for there are party programs for young
and old, for special occasions and holidays, for novelty
dances with costumes, for banquets, picnics and outdoor
parties, and games and stunts for large or small informal
gatherings. There are parties, too, for men, parties for
women, for boys and girls, and for mixed groups. Not
the least important feature are the suggestions for un-
usual and delectable refreshments. Delightful illustra-
tions by Hamilton Greene form a gay setting to the
party programs.

CI

3000 Books of Leisure

Book Department of Leisure, 683 Atlantic Avenue, Bos-
ton. $.10.

N THE SECOND EDITION of this valuable bibliography on

leisure a number of classifications have been added and
new titles of recently published books incorporated. An
additional feature is a listing of magazines on recreation
and hobbies. Recreation workers will find this compre-
hensive bibliography of great practical value.

Sports Education

By Seward C. Staley. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $2.50.

BASED ON THE THESIS that there is no such thing as

physical education, since the physical, mental and
social aspects of life can not be separated, Sports Edu-
cation deals with physical education curriculums, dis-
cussing objects, outcomes and future changes, principles
of evaluation and methods of teaching. Dr. Staley, Pro-
fessor of Physical Education in the University of Illinois,
maintains that a sound prOgram can 'be formulated only
by coordinating theory and practice, as he has attempted
to do in this book. It is designed for professional stu-
dents, teachers, principals and superintendents.

By Emanuele Stieri. Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill
Book Company, New York. $3.00.

HERE ARE MANY highly desirable hobbies which re-
quire more space, more leisure, and more extensive
facilities than the average hobbyist, especially the apart-
ment dweller, can afford. Mr. Stieri has brought to-
gether in this volume a number of hobbies which can be

I enjoyed in a minimum of space and at small expense.
lehe first part of the book describes hobbies with a
|,Special, appeal to nature lovers. These include window

i
T
\ The Book of Indoor Hobbies

l

and roof gardening, terrariums, aquariums, and the care
of birds. The second part contains suggestions for crea-
tive hobbies such as pottery, tile work, metal craft, and
carving. With each hobby Mr. Stieri discusses in detail
the materials and equipment required, and the pro—
cedure to be followed. There are more than a hundred
halftones and many line drawings which illustrate the
directions given in the text.

Tennis Type Games

National Section on Women’s Athletics. American As-
sociation for Health, Physical Education, and Recrea-

gog, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.
.2 .

BECAUSE TENNIS and related games contribute to social

contacts and are important in the deve10pment of
skills and have a part to play in the intellectual and emo-
tional deve10pment of individual students, it is desirable
that all of us should be intelligent concerning the games
and sports in which others engage and have a repertoire
of sports and games. This booklet, with suggestions for
activities and references, should be exceedingly helpful
to recreation workers.

How to Play Six-Man Football

By Ralph Henry Barbour and La Mar Sarra. D. Ap-
pleton-Century Company, New York. $1.50.

HE RAPIDLY GROWING interest in six-man football,
which the authors refer to as a “tabloid edition” of
the standard interscholastic game, has resulted in a num-

' 'ber of books on the subject of which this is the latest.

The claims made by the authors are that the game in its
modified form retains all the essentials of the parent
game—running, passing, kicking, blocking, and tackling
——and affords similar possibilities for generalship and
strategy. It is far less grueling and exacts a much
smaller toll of injuries. For the spectator it presents a
more open picture and one more easily comprehended.
How to Play Six-Man-Football is not only a rules book
with all necessary information on plays of various kinds,
equipment, and information for officials and referees, but
it is written in an interesting, popular style. There are
many diagrams showing formations and plays.

Woodcraft

By Bernard S. Mason. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $2.75.

DR. MASON, editor of The Camping Magazine and au-
thor of Primitive and Pioneer Sports and other pub-
lications, has given us in this volume a comprehensive
book on woodcraft which will 'be useful to any individual
of any age interested in camping, woodcraft, and crafts
based on forest materials. The newest approved camp
equipment is described along with the ancient skill of the
Indian in woodcraft. An interesting section of the book
deals with bark-craft. Club leaders, camp counselors, and
recreation workers who are conducting craft programs
will find this book exceedingly valuable.

535

536 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

American Folk Plays.

Edited with an introduction by Frederick H. Koch.
D. Appleton—Century Co., New York. $4.00.

A collection of twenty one-act plays selected from
many scripts written in playwriting courses conducted by
Prof. Koch at the University of North Carolina and in
summer sessions of various other universities. Included
are plays of historical background, folk legends, and con-
temporary life. Eighteen are of the American scene, one
each from Canada and Mexico. Characters and scenes of
each are authentic, having been written by a playwright
native to the region of which he writes. All of the plays
have been successfully produced. This is a book that
students and all interested in folk drama and folklore will

want to add to their library shelves.

Modern Furniture Making and Design.

By Rodney Hooper. The Manual Arts Press, Peoria,
Illinois. $4.00.

This book is designed to show a variety of treatments
for the design and construction of domestic furniture
and woodwork. It seeks to indicate the main points of
the construction of various types of furniture as fully as
it is possible in the limited space available, and with
each example it has given in graphic form sufficient in-
formation for the understanding of its design and construc—
tion. It is hoped that the book will be of value to archi—
tects, designers and draughtsmen, and to students in
technical schools and training clubs, but most of all to
amateurs who find joy and recreation in working in
wood. There are many illustrations in the book.

American Folk Dances.
Kit 49. Cooperative Recreation Service, Delaware,

'Ohio. $.25.

This collection of more than thirty circle and line
dances from the Midwest, South, and New England is a
useful sample of the fascinating variety of native Ameri-
can folk dancing. The booklet includes the calls and
descriptions of the various figures and the music for the
square dances as well.

Soilless Growth of Plants.

By Carleton Ellis and Miller W. Swaney. Reinhold
Publishing Corporation, 330 West 42nd Street, New
York. $2.75.

Soilless growth, the authors point out, is a game at
Wthh anyone may play. The interesting experiments
which the authors have conducted are presented here
concisely and clearly. The individual whose hobby is
gardening will find this book fascinating.

Plays for High Holidays, with
Incidental Music and Dancing.

By Janet E. Tobitt and Alice M. G. White. E. P.
Dutton and Co., Inc., New York. $1.50.

A collection of four delightful full-length one—act plays
for young people. The first, “Star Over Bethlehem,” is
a French Nativity play which can be performed in pan-
tomime with offstage singing, or as an Operetta. The
second is a tenth century Christmas play based on the
well-known folk carol, “Good King Wencelas.” A third
play, “Saint Patrick for Ireland” is particularly good for
bOys. The final play, “The Donkey That Carried a
King,” is based on the New Testament accounts of the
procuring by two disciples of a young donkey on which
Jesus rode into Jerusalem. Complete production notes
are included for each play. A folk dance and several
songs with melody are given with each play.

This book of new plays which lend themselves to sim-
ple or elaborate productions will Ibe welcomed by leaders

of drama groups. It should prove just as popular as the
first book by these authors, “Dramatized Ballads.”

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT,
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACTS ()l“
CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912, AND MARCH 3, 1933 of
RECREATION published monthly at New York, N. Y., for
October 1, 1939.

STATE OF NEW YORK.
COUNTY OF NEW YORK, ss.

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and county
aforesaid, personally appeared Howard Braucher, who, having
been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is
the editor of RECREATION, and that the following is, to the best
of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership,
management (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., Of the
aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption,
required by the Act Of August 24, 1912, as amended by the Act
of March 3, 1933, embodied in section 537, Postal Laws and
Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, tO wit:

1. That the names and addresses Of the publisher, editor,
managing editor, and business managers are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York, N. Y.

NEsditor: Howard Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York, '
Managing Editor: Abbie Condit, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

Business Manager: R. J. Schwartz, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y. -

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name
and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the
names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per
cent or more Of total amount Of stock. If .not owned by a cor-
poration, the names and addresses of the individual owners must
he given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated
concern, its name and address, as well as those of each indi-
vidual member, must be given.)

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

F. W. H. Adams, New York, N. Y.; F. Gregg Bemis, Boston,
Mass.; Mrs. Edward VV'. Biddle, Car‘isle, Pa.; Mrs. Robert Woods
Bliss, Washington, D. C.; Mrs. William Butterworth, Moline,
111.; Henry L. Corbett, Portland, Ore.; Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer,
Jacksonville, Fla.; F. Trubee Davison, Locust Valley, L. I.. N.
Y.; Harry P. Davison, New York, N. Y.; John H. Finley, New
York, N. Y.; Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Md.; Austin E. Grif-
fiths, Seattle, \Vash.; Mrs. Norman Harrower, Fitchburg, Mass.;
Mrs. Melville H. Haskell, Tucson, Ariz.; Mrs. Charles V. Hickox.
Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. Mina M. Edison Hughes, West
Orange, N. J.; Mrs. John D. Jameson. Sugar Hill, N. H.; Gus-
tavus T. Kirby, New York. N. Y.; H. MCK. Landon, Indiana-
polis, I.nd.: Mrs. Charles D. Lanier, Greenwich, Conn.; Robert
Lassiter, Charlotte, N. C.; Susan M. Lee. Boston, Mass.; J. H.
McCurdy, Springfield, Mass.; Otto T. Mallerv, Philadelphia, Pa.;
Walter A. May,.Pittsburgh, Pa.; Carl E. Milliken, Augusta. Me;
Mrs. Ogden L. Mills. \Voodbury, N. Y.; T, Suffern Tailer,
I. ocust Valley, L. I.. N. Y.; Mrs. James W. Wadsworth, Wash-
ington, D. C.; J. C. Walsh, New York. N. Y.; Frederick M.
VVarhurg. New York. N. Y.; John G. Winant, Concord, N. H.;
Stanley Woodward, Washington, D. C.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other securitv
holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more Of total amount of
bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, 50
state.)

None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names -of the
owners. stockholders. and securitv holders, if any, contaln .not
only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear
upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stock-
holder or security holder appears upon the books of the Com'
pany as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of
the person or corporation for whom such trustee lS acting, IS
given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements em-
bracing atiiart’s full knowledge and belief as to the Circum-
stances and conditions under which stockholders and security
holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as
trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that
Of a bona fide owner; and this afiiant has no reason to believe
that any other person, association, or corporation has any inter-
est direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities

than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue Of this
publication sold or distributed, through the mails O_r othenmse.
to paid subscribers during the twelve months precedmg_the date
shown above is (This information is required from daily publl-
cations only.)

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

Sworn to and suhscribed before me this 27th day of Septem-
ber, 1939.

[SEAL] MIRIAM DOCI-ITERMANN,
Notary Public, Nassau County.
Nassau County Clerk’s NO. 286. Certificate Filed in New York '

County. Clerk’s NO. 10. Register’s No. 0-D-5. My CommiSSion
expires March 30, 1940.

