Where Shall the Administration of a
Recreation System Be Placed?

RECENT report of the Educational Policies Commission of the National Education A's-
sociation proposes: “That communities supporting several unrelated recreation agencies
establish a recreation commission in order to promote coordination of programs and use of

facilities.”
The Educational Policies Commission “foresees the ultimate unification of all school, li-

brary and recreation systems in communities or areas of appropriate size under the leadership
of a public education authority.”

The leaders in the National Recreation Association very much appreciate the fine spirit
in which the whole problem of recreation administration is faced in the National Education As-
sociation report. There has been increasing evidence of more satisfactory progress in recrea-
ation development under the recreation commission. The Association has not itself discovered
evidence which would point to an ultimate consolidation of school, library and recreation sys-
tems. Always the Association has urged the widest possible use of school grounds and school
lbuildings for community recreation purposes, but it has also urged the widest possible use of
"7 park and other city property. It is essential to think in terms of the needs of the men, women
and children of our communities and of what will in the long run, under the human limitations
l'which prevail in our thinking, mean most for our communities.

l Already our school systems have attained such tremendous size that a very considerable
proportion of the money raised in the local community through taxation is turned over to the
public school system. There is serious question whether the additional funds necessary to meet
recreation needs would ever be made available adequately and continuously under the school
board or under an educational authority. There can be no satisfactory unification of recreation
administration in a locality except as thought is given to the park system as well as to the school
system. Many park leaders are talking about consolidation of recreation interests and are urg-
‘ing that what is now being done in recreation under school systems and recreation commissions
and park boards be consolidated under the park board. For many years park boards have, in a
.number of cities, been administering public recreation, even caring for recreation activities on
"school property.

. The present financial value of the properties given over to public recreation uses, aside
from the school systems, in the cities, counties, state, and nation is very great. The management
'of the recreation properties and the recreation systems is in itself a very big task and one that is
lrapidly growing. To give recreation properties as well as school properties, let alone library
properties, to an educational authority would mean soon—if not now—practically doubling the
property to be administered by educational authorities, would mean that a very high per cent
laf the tax rate was being turned over to a single administrative unit, that a considerable part of

the city administration was being turned over to one authority.

l

Advocacy of a public recreation commission is, an increasing number of recreation leaders
{tgree, a step in the right direction, though the National Recreation Association itself is waiting
until certain studies have been completed before making a final declaration. But the leaders in
.he Association do not at present have evidence which would point the country over to the ulti-
nate unification of the recreation system with the public school system.

Recreation is a part of religion, of education, of health, of industry and business, of
,vork. There is evidence, however, that recreation, abundant living in the larger sense, has be-
nome and ought to be a great, outstanding, major interest, side by side with religion, education,

‘Iusiness, and labor. Religion, like recreation, should permeate all of life. 'Recreation cannot
,iermanently be made a subdivision of any one part of life.

, HOWARD BRAUCHER
1

NJ 6 u s T, .9 a 9     w. 

 

 

257

Photo furnished by M. Boulonnois, Surcsnes, France. Used by courtesy of Health
Section Secretariat, World Federation of Education Associations

258

 

The Trek

ated by Congress to com—
memorate the passing of the
Ordinance of 1787 and the es-
tablishment of the Northwest

THE SESQUICENTENNIAL cre—

Back to Che- Pe- Ko- Ke

Another episode in the series
of Fascinating events through

which one public library each
summer mahes books come

alive for children on vacation

the downtown streets just at
twilight to inform the com-
munity that their intentions
would be peaceable if they re-
ceived no interference from the

Territory afforded the Public
Library of Vincennes, Indiana,
the opportunity to combine edu-
cation, inspiration and enter-
tainment in its vacation reading
project; to turn the pages and
Trek Back to Che—Pe-Ko-Ke (meaning brush-
wood), the old Piankeshaw village which pre—
dated George Rogers Clark’s capture of Fort

Sackville (V incennes) in 1779.

Once again CHE-PE-KO—KE had its portal open
to representatives of various Indian tribes, and
above the door of the council house (Public Li—
,brary) was found the tribal totem of the turtle.
Within its walls many confer—
ences were held between the red

and white men, as well as nu-
merous secret meetings to which
only Indians were admitted.
The Warriors were divided
into four tribes, Kickapoos,
,Piankeshaws, Shawnees
{and Miamis, tribes which
had inhabited Indiana at
some time.
' At the time of registra-
.:i0n each child was pre—
' ;ented with a headband
nade to his individual meas-
irements. For each book
report he received a bright
colored feather to attach to
llS head dress, a book scalp
0 dispel the spirit of ignor-
nice, the scalp ceremonial
'ieing sacred with the In—
lian for it gave-him control
~I'Ver the spirit life of his
x-nemies.

When the project had
com in operation for about
two weeks the Indians
ltarted on the war path with
l. scalp raid, moving over

   
  
  
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

By JANE KITCHELL
Vincennes Public Library

Governor William Henry Harrison
and Tecumseh. famous Shawnee
Indian Chief, meet in Council

 

public, but that they intended to
scalp books with a vengeance!
Braves, squaws, papooses, chiefs,
medicine men, ponies, bareback
riders, war paint and feathers
were much in evidence, all car-
rying prayer sticks.

A Pow Wow was held each Saturday, presided
over by chiefs and medicine men of the various
tribes. Long before the hour, the beat of the torn—
toms could be heard outside the library calling
braves to matters of importance. A study was
made of customs, tribal fidelity, games, music,
ceremonies and festivals of these primitive peo—
ple. From the Lamp of Forti—
tude they learned an Indian
must “Be Brave, Play Fair,
Obey, Be Reverent, Worship
the Great Spirit, Be Kind
and Joyful.” This they re—
cited with arms folded.
Trips were made to historic
places, Indian mounds, and

council places going over

the trail of old Che—Pe-Ko—
Ke. The Public Library was
removed one block, but two
schools were within its
boundaries.

On one occasion old
Sugar Loaf Hill was again
alive to the war whoop and
the clang of the tomahawk,
when some 300 braves as-
sembled for their weekly
Pow Wow, fathers and
mothers doing their bit in
transporting the children
some few miles from the
city. Each warrior brought
his own lunch and the li-
brary contributed chocolate
milk and graham crackers.
After their hUnger had been

259

260 THE TREK BACK TO CHE-PE-KO-KE

satisfied the braves mounted the hill for a cere-
monial, initiating a chief of the Kickapoos. They
were told the history of the mound, which had
no doubt been a temple three stories high, the
vicinity being the center of a royal priesthood.

Chiefs and medicine men were elected each week
on the basis of the most books read and the best
reports. The medicine man was the most im-
portant man of the tribe. He was different, he
carried a wand, a medicine bag presented by the
library, and a tambourine, and sometimes he wore
a mask. No one ever knew what was in the
medicine bag. It was his most prized possession.
Usually it contained dried grass and a charm
which might be anything from a dried bee to a
feather.

Attention was directed to the caravan of forty-
eight men and an ox team which set out from
Ipswich, Massachusetts, as a part of the North-
west Territory celebration, presenting “Freedom
on the March,” the second episode of which was
the “Surrender of Fort Sackville.” Its itinerary
was to include Vincennes on September 12. Mayor
Kimmell requested the float and children used in
the parade staged at the beginning of the project
to appear in parade of some sixty units.

The project culminated in the re-enacting of the
famous Harrison-Tecumseh council of 1810.

History repeats itself. It is again August 10th,
one hundred and twenty-six years later. The
place, historic William Henry Harrison mansion;
the setting, the banks of the Wabash. William
Henry Harrison, impersonated by David Living-
stone, aged eight years, and Tecumseh, famous
Indian chief. played by Billy Eskew, seven years
old, both sharing the honors for the number of
books read, live again. Governor Harrison, judges
of the Territory and a guard of twelve men from
Fort Knox await Tecumseh, who has been sum-
moned for a conference upon the veranda of the
old mansion. Tecumseh approaches from the
river, accompanied by about seventy-five warriors
all in costume; he halts when within a short dis-
tance of the Governor. An interpreter is sent out
inviting him to have a place upon the porch, say-
ing it is a wish of the father. Striking a tragic
pose, Tecumseh exclaims “My father, the sun is
my father, the earth is my mother, upon her
bosom I will repose.”

The young Tecumseh gave a dramatic recital of
the famous Chief’s speech assailing the white men
and Governor Harrison for their treatment of the
Red Man. The council was held under the trees,

the Indians sitting upon the ground. The grea
Harrison arose with much dignity- and poise
using verbatim the famous speech defending th
white man and rebuking Tecumseh. During Hat
rison’s speech the Indians picked up their clubs
with their eyes upon the Governor. General Gib
son, fearing trouble ordered the guard to b
brought up. Governor Harrison extinguished th
council fire, telling Tecumseh that he had behave.
so badly that he would not sit with him again.

After a lapse of twenty-four hours Tecumsel
regrets his conduct, seeks another interview wit]
Harrison, which is granted, and apologizes for hi
bad conduct, saying that he wished everything t:
be peaceable. The Indians then trail off, wrap-pee
in their blankets, to the trees behind the mansi01
where an Indian ceremonial is conducted and th
Peace Pipe is smoked. The ceremonial was con
ducted by the Sun Woman (Ruth Hartzburg)
who had scored the highest honors of any India:
but unfortunately could not portray Harrison 0'
Tecumseh. The Sun Woman was always note(
for her wisdom, and many-young squaws brough
their papooses for her blessing. Ruth was cer
tainly the wisest of all for she had read the mos
books!

When all are assembled the Chiefs of eacl
tribe present their wands as a token of loyalty
The Sun Woman accepts them, commending eacl
tribe, and adds her own staff to theirs as a symbo
of her faithfulness to them, ever looking to thei1
best interests. She invokes the Great Spirit tr
make them true and noble warriors. The peaa
pipe ceremony by Seton is then used. The coun-
cil fire is lighted by rubbing two sticks togethe:
saying “This is a Council of Peace so we light thl.
pipe of peace.” Lifting the pipe toward the skj
the Sun Woman invokes the wisdom of 
konda, “Great Spirit,” Mother Earth, Sunse
Wind, Winter Wind, Sunrise Wind, Hot Wind-f-
to which all the Indians reply “N oon—way
(“Amen, or this is our prayer”). In closing sh
tells the Chiefs to so lead their warriors tha‘
loyalty will shine in the wigwams of every trib'
for “in union there is strength, in the bond :0?
brotherhood there is peace. Go and the blessing"i
of the Great Spirit go with you.” The ceremoniz -
was closed with the chanting of the Omaha tribz'
prayer and singing of “From the Land of th
Sky Blue Water.” ,

As a Book Week feature diplomas were prti}

sented to 325 Indians at a joint assembly of a1
(Continued on page 302)

   

mW‘H—H- v- -

 

Lantern Pageants in the Making

ment of lanterns on the Racine

playgrounds, one must go back
many years to the time when the
playground leaders taught chil-
dren how to make candle-
lighted lanterns out of old shoe
boxes. These shoe boxes, with
designs cut into them, and
backed up with colored crepe
paper, were illuminated by
small Christmas tree candles.
Then came larger lanterns
made out of carton boxes.
Following the era of carton boxes, larger lanterns,
constructed by piecing together sticks covered
with cardboard, came into vogue. The picture
cut—outs on this particular type of lantern were
placed on both sides of the box frame, brightened
up by candles Within.

IN TRACING the growth and develop-

In the Early Days

The city’s first lantern parades were held on the
individual playgrounds. Then, as the children’s

_interests in lanterns grew, the making of extra

lanterns for their younger brothers, sisters and
for other youngsters soon became quite popular.
The enthusiasm for lantern making and parading
also captured the makers of larger lanterns. The
workmanship of their original creations became so
outstanding that an all—city playground parade
was inevitable.

The delightful setting selected for the large
gathering of lantern bearers was in one of the
city’s largest parks. The bowl—shaped park proved
to be an ideal place, for it solved the'seating prob-
lem. The time. of the staging was shortly after
twilight. The children, at a given signal from a
gun, began marching around the grounds in single
file. At another signal, each playground broke up
into its own small circle. The final signal gave
notice to fall in again for a grand march around
the park. This march gaVe the judges and SPCC'
tators a final chance to view the originality and
workmanship of the pictured designs.

From a distance the scene resembled an inva-
sion of glowing fireflies, but as one came closer
the characters of comics appeared vividly in the
glow of the burning candles. The pictures were

By JAMES MASIK
Boys' Supervisor
Park Board

RacineI Wisconsin

Lantern making and lantern parades
are an old tradition on the play-
grounds ot Racine' Wisconsin. Each
year for the past ten years candle-
lighted lanterns have marked the
climax of the summer season. The
story of the development of the lan-
tern tradition is an interesting one.

colorful, accurate, and recognizable.
Futuristic, modernistic, colonial,
Spanish, Indian, and historical de—
signs, as well as recent personalities
and other picture cut-outs were
used.

Year in. and year out for the
past eight years the annual
parades have been held, until
within the past three years the
all-city parades were discon-
tinued, primarily because of
inclement weather. At present,
playground parades are held,
with neighboring playgrounds marching to a half-
way mark and returning, or congregating at the
most ideal playground for such an activity.

The newest lantern creation, which came into
being last summer, is an indirect lighted lantern;
it adds a thousand fold to color and beauty, reality
and fantasy. The new lantern is just what the
name implies—indirect lighting of the picture cut—
outs by an arrangement of candle light on a blank
piece of cardboard to refiect and illuminate the
picture cut-outs. This modern lighting innovation
made its first appearance in a Four-Part Lantern
Pageant given by the children of two neighboring
playgrounds. The lighted pictures were uniformly
brilliant; the colors had greater richness, tone and
quality; the designs were more exact and vivid.

A Four Part Lantern Pageant

The Four Part Lantern Pageant conducted by
the two playgrounds was held in the open of a
large wooded section of a park, and was conducted
both on an elevated platform and on the ground.
The pageant was divided into four parts: drama-
tization of Walt Disney’s “Snow White and the
Seven Dwarfs”; “Circus on Parade”; “Lantern
Varieties on Review”; and “The Parade of the
Fireflies.”

Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs

Synopsis. Snow White and Prince Charming
meet in the garden. She flies from the wicked
queen and is found in the Dwarf’s cozy house by
the little men coming home from work. The
Witch pays Snow White a visit. Snow White
takes a bite of the apple as the dwarfs come rush-

261

262 LANTERN PAGEANTS IN THE MAKING

ing home to chase the witch. The dwarfs in their
sorrow walk the floor to be confronted by a new-
comer, Prince Charming. He revives Snow White
by kissing her. Rejoicing follows.

Program.
Scene I—Appearance of Snow White in the

garden singing “Wishing Well.”
(Orthophonic recording.)

Scene 2—Appearance of Prince Charming sing-
ing to her.

Scene 3—Snow White is found in the dwarfs’
cottage by the Seven Dwarfs. (Ap-
propriate music to the arriving of
dwarfs.)

Scene 4-—-—Dwarfs going to their work next

morning leaving Snow White alone.

(Music “Off to Work We Go”)
The Witch enters.
Dwarfs return to chase the Weird
Witch.

Scene 5—The Seven Dwarfs are prancing the
floor.
The Prince appears.

Rejoicing on the arrival of Snow
White.

Circus on Parade

The second part of the pageant was announced
by a cut-out inscription, “Circus. on Parade.” The
procession consisted of many animals and circus
performers—monkeys, elephants, tigers, lions,
clowns, and animal performers on blocks and
balls. The parade was’ very picturesque, consist-
ing of at least twenty lanterns or more.

Lantern Varieties on Review

The third part was announced as “Lantern
Varieties on Review.” This part of the pageant
was devoted to all lanterns without a particular
motif—those showing originality or intricate con-
struction, or which were good in design. The
most beautiful lanterns were found in this part

of the program. The total number reviewed was
thirty-five.

The Parade of the Fireflies

The climax of the pageant was the procession
of small lanterns carried by the youngest children
on the playground. The route of ,march of the
children of both playgrounds took them through-
out the woods that lined the edge of the park.
The two groups, located across from each other,
marched until they met, then separated and joined

the crowd. The intermingling of the lanterns
among the people in the crowd proved very ef-
fective, giving the impression of one mass pag-
eant in which every one played his part.

Some Hints on Construction

The frame or the box skeleton used in the con-
struction of a direct or indirect lighted lantern is
made from plaster lathes, a standard lathe measur-
ing one and a half inches wide, about three-
eighths inches thick and 48 inches long. In the
frame of both direct and indirect lighted lanterns,
the plan of construction is identically the same
except that in the old or the direct lighted Ian-,-
tern there were two candle shelfs supported by
strips which are nailed on the sides of the lantern
frame as seen in the diagram.

To construct one lantern frame, approximately
328 inches of lathing material and about three to
four dozen lathing nails are needed. In the con-
struction the skeleton is formed by taking four
standard lathes for uprights, four twenty-four
inch strips for vertical widths, four ten-inch
strips for the vertical depth. The horizontal and
vertical width pieces are nailed together to form
two frames. The depth strips are then nailed to
hold the frames together. This completes the box
frame. Because“ the Manilla cardboard measures
only 36” x 24”, the frame openings, or the dis-
tance between the vertical width strips, are made
35 inches long, an allowance of half an inch on
the top and bottom of the sheet for corner eyelets.

The skeleton must next be enclosed in such a
manner as to keep the light from escaping through
the frame. The texture of the material used for
enclosing must be of a high reflecting quality
so as to bring about a most desirable design
illumination. ’

To cover the form or frame, it is estimated
that about 1900 inches of cardboard are needed;
The material used for covering the box is Manilla
cardboard, which is yellow in color, making the
cardboard fairly desirable. A cardboard that
would be ideal is one of glossy finish with its bril-
liant reflection adding to the rich color of the
designs.

In covering the lantern box, two pieces of
10” x 36” cardboard are needed for the sides,
one standard size sheet 24” x 36” for the back
side, while a small 10” x 24” piece is needed to:
keep the light from escaping to the ground. Tack.
all cardboard on the inside of the box, using small!
carpet tacks to fasten the Manilla cardboard. It”

is very important to have
cardboard taut in the proc-
ess of tacking.

Lighting the Lantern

The source of the light
which irradiates the lantern
design is burning candles.
The primary difference be-

tween the old and new type
of lantern is the number of

,candles and their location
lin the box frame, as shown
iin the illustrations. The
new type employs six can-
:dles, one candle in each re-
lflector can, while the old
ltype burns ten or more can-
ldles located on shelves with—
?in the box. The new method
of placing candles in cans
protects the flame from be-
ing blown out by winds and
lalso tends to stop flickering
',of the candle light.

' The size of the candles
'for the lanterns is deter-
'lmined by the type of pro-
gram to be conducted. If a
aparade program is to be
'held, larger candles are
needed. On the other hand,

iin case of a pageant pro-

7

gram of shorter duration, a
smaller candle is sufficient.
[t is estimated that candles
me inch in height, one and
pile-eighth inches in diame—
ter will burn from thirty—
we to forty—live minutes.

The cylindrical-bodied tal-
ow candles used in the cans
.re plumper candles that
.re purchased in three-inch
‘engths with. a diameter of
nne and one-eighth inches.
fwo of three plumper wax
ticks are sufficient for a
Dng lantern program.

In the cutting of the can-
.le care must be taken to
1ee that the wax does not
.hip. A thorough heating

1

 

LANTERN PAGEANTS IN THE MAKING 263

..'—____._.._.________
'00::

0—-

The diagram above shows the old type
of lighting in which ten or more can-
dles are used. The new type. which
is shown belowI employs six candles
and provides for indirect

I:
.—
i 35-3-3 “

LIGHTING
LANTERN

 

  

D LIG

Cardboard

  
 

IND IR ECT
HTING LANTERN

lighting.

 

will help to avoid waste.
Better still, a jig-saw will
cut the candle without chip-
ping. After the cutting has
been completed and the
wicks are deeply gouged
out, the candle is ready for
lighting.

The six reflectors aid
most in bringing about a
strong, steady, and uni-
form illumination. These re-
flectors are nailed onto the
back horizontal strips in
such a way as to reflect all
the candle-manufactured
light onto the back sheet
where the reflection agencies
brighten up the design. The
reflectors are made of ma-
terials that will bend easily
and will not ignite. Tin is
found to be a very desir—
able material because it is
flexible, resistant to heat,
and can be penetrated by
nails and cut easily with tin
snips. Coffee cans are found
most suitable for the pur-
pose because the cans have
a highly polished inner sur-
face which gives off the
maximum reflection.

For the lantern, six cans,
five inches in diameter and
three and a half inches high,
are sufficient, three cans be-
ing nailed on each side of
the back frame.

There are four opera-
tions the can must go
through to become a re-
flector. First of all, a slot
one by two inches long must
be cut on the top side of
the can for ventilation, and
the lip may be turned up;
secondly, the can must be
sheared on the side that is
to be nailed onto the back
frame (this shearing elimi-
nates the direct reflection
of light from reflectors to

264 LANTERN PAGEANTS IN THE MAKING

design) ; thirdly, the nail holes must be made be-
forehand; and last of all the can must be bent,
making it oval—shaped to give 0H a wider ray.

The Problem of Decoration

'The lantern pictures usually follow a motif as
has been suggested, such as a pageant with separ-
ate parts, as in “Snow White and the Seven
Dwarfs” or “Circus and Variety Lanterns.” In
making these larger lanterns the designing, cut-
ting, and pasting are done by older children, four-
teen years of age and up. Many lantern pictures
are made at the children’s homes with the aid of
their fathers and mothers. A stronger bond is
thus formed between the home and. the play-
ground.

A few tools and materials are
needed before the construction
of a lantern is begun. These in-
clude a standard size sheet of
Manilla cardboard, a yard stick,
assorted colored crepe paper,
paste, a pencil, razor blades,
juvenile picture books, scissors,
and a large piece of corrugated
cardboard.

In selecting the pictures for
the designs, the child must bear
in mind whether he wants a
silhouette or a picture with all
its characteristics defined. Sil-
houetted work takes only a
short time compared to a pict-
ured characterization. The lat-
ter consists of as many as five
different colors of crepe paper while the silhouette
needs no more than two.

When the design or picture has been chosen,
the drawing is sketched within a two-inch border
of the entire sheet. After the designs have been
sketched and the proportions checked, the cutting
of the characteristics is next in order. Let us take
for granted that a characterization picture of
George Washington is ready for cutting. The
borders of the hair, face, neck piece, coat collar
and lapel, coat, and shoulder ornament are all cut
out. But remember to keep intact a strip wide
enough for crepe paper to be pasted on.

On the back side of the cardboard the crepe
paper is attached. The first step in papering is to
line the border of the characteristics to be covered
with paste. Then the desired color of crepe paper
is laid over that portion of the picture. A razor

REHL'CTOR (A175

     
    

Very important in the lighting
of the lantern is the reflector

blade is used to trim off the superfluous crept
paper. This method is used for all papering. Th:
contours, wrinkles, buttonholes, and the eye ant
eyelids are pasted on the crepe paper in their re-
spective positions on the face of George Washing.
ton. With the cutting, papering, replacement ol
wrinkles, and other details completed, the picturi
should be examined before a light for any over
lapping of crepe paper, and for color harmonic:
and escaping light.

There are two methods of hanging the lanterI
picture cut-outs—either tacking the cut-out to tht
frame, as in the method used in the old type 01
lantern, or hanging them, as in the new lanterns
on hooks which are located at the corners.-

On the four corners of the
picture cut—out sheets, small one
eighth inch holes, about one
half inch from the outside edges
are perforated. These holes ii
over right-angle hooks that an
screwed into the corners. It pay:
to be very accurate in having
the holes and hooks match, a:
this helps in eliminating the
escape of light. The advantage
of this system of hanging lie:
in the rapidity with which lan‘
tern pictures may be changed
The reserve pictures that are t(
be shown next are hanging or
hooks on the back of the box
frame. Two sets of hooks may
also be used to great advantagt
in the back of the lantern, one
set being used to hold the new pictures, Whilt
shorter hooks are placed ten inches lower to re-
ceive the picture cut-outs that have already bee}
shown. In staging a pageant, leaving the old pic
ture cut-outs on the ground in a pile works otlv
satisfactorily.

1' (WIN/‘76 Y
5207

Pointers to Keep in Mind

In making an indirect lighted lantern there ar-
many important pointers which should be con!

sidered. The main ones follow: l

Nail the cans (reflectors) onto the frame beforl
the box skeletons are enclosed with cardboard. l

Sandpaper the candle spots to aid the candll
wax in obtaining a firmer hold onto the metal. il

Make all nail holes before nailing the can‘t]
the frame.

LANTERN PAGEANTS IN THE MAKING 265

' Have the center of the flame directly above the
r narrow slot in the can, otherwise the top .of the
lcan will become carbonized. This blackening is
. against all principles of good light reflection.

In case blotches of light are noticeable in the
lpicture cut—out while in the frame, trace the
’ source and bend the can accordingly so that the
gcandle light in reflection does not show on the
l picture cut—out.

If the bending of the can, as in the above
! pointer, does not correct the flame glow, shear off
i more of the tin on the can causing the trouble.

I Before placing the candles in the can, burn
them first for thirty seconds.

One of the requirements of fine workmanship
in a lantern is the ability to keep light from
escaping through the corners of the lantern. This
is accomplished by tacking long two-inch creased
strips to each corner.

A long creased two—inch strip of this kind is
advisable on the front frame of the lantern.

Running a knife lightly down the center of the
‘strip will make for a good crease.

 To add to the improvement of indirect lighting
.‘in the lantern, old sheets of photographs or tin
lfoil stapled on the cardboard may be used to
tcreate a richness of crepe paper colors.
J The lanterns can be carried very conveniently
tby older boys by grasping the lanterns on the sides
from the rear of the lantern. Long handles are
lvery easily put on the lantern in case smaller
lchildren are to carry the lantern.

Make sure that the front

frames are according to specifi-
‘cations, rather smaller in dimen—
I'sion than larger; otherwise light
will escape.

i For cutting cardboard, the

 

use of single edge safety
razor blades is not injurious
to the hands. When the
corners of the blades are
dulled, they can be saved
by sinking the corners into
wood and breaking them off
to get a new corner edge.

Picture cut-outs of intri-
cate designs are usually a
(waste of time because of
the inability of the distant
[Spectators to perceive fine
Iwork.

1' A color wheel offers an

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

31 ME (IT’EPE

effective way of choosing crepe paper for the
color combinations desired.

The larger the audience the larger the lanterns
must be constructed.

The indirect lighted lanterns are very easily
transported.

For dramatization of plays with lanterns a plat—
form should be used.

From year to year, Mr. B. A. Solbraa, Di—
rector of Recreation in Racine, has suggested a
collection of these lantern picture cut-outs would
constitute a good library to be used yearly.

Small Lanterns

Little has_been said thus far about small lan—
terns which are made and carried by the youngest
children of the playground. A few ideas for
making small lanterns economically, conveniently
and successfully follow:

The small lantern may be round, square, spheri-
cal, or triangular in shape. The easiest kind for
the children to make is either a round or trian-
gular one.

The materials necessary to construct a simple
triangular lantern consist of a piece of 9” x 24”
Manilla cardboard; 36 inches of thin wire; small
thin carrying sticks 18 inches long; two or three
brad paper fasteners; one short candle of not
more than one-half inch; razor blades; a yard
stick; assorted crepe paper; and a piece of cor-
rugated cardboard to cut upon.

A triangular lantern, as shown
in the illustration, requires one-
fourth of the 36” x 24” Manilla
cardboard sheet—the sides of the
lantern triangle being a scant
eight inches with a one-inch flap
piece, and the height of the side
measuring nine inches. The length
of the 9” x 24” is first marked
off in scant eight—inch segments,
leaving allap wide enough
for paper fasteners. Across
the pencil-marked segments
run a razor blade very
lightly. This serves as a cut
score, or good fold. The
base of the lantern, which
acts as the candle support,
is a piece of cardboard cut
in the shape of a “Y,” the
arms extending through

(Continued on page 303)

What They Say About Recreation

” o POPULARIZE the fine arts, to raise the every-
day standard of appreciation of beauty, har—
mony, and emotion in all expressions of the

various arts and crafts, should be the first mis-

sion of artists who have benefited by study and
contact with the world’s fine things. The fine arts
fulfill and justify their elevation by their universal

appeal and character, even though expressed in a

language that may not at first be understood by

all people.”—From Art in Industry, by John

PVoodman Higgins.

“The art of successful living is to transfer more
and more of our profit taking to the realm of the
non-competitive. There is no competition in the
creation of beauty or the interpretation of truth.
Instead of counting so much on diplomacy, eco-
nomics and governments to make peace, we should
turn to the potential contributions of art, litera-
ture, science and religion.” —- Dr. Ralph W.
Sockman.

“The need for participation with ensuing self-
expression is universal to all mankind. It is the
modern explanation of why we play and it ac-
counts for the great popularity of play today
when a large share of work is so mechanized that
the spirit has all been squeezed out of it. This
newer understanding has been instrumental in
greatly widening the scope of the play curricu-
lum, because the individual thereby has added
chance to find some outlet for his talents and to

achieve prestige in the eyes of his fellows.”—
Elmer D. Mitchell in The Phi Delta Kappan.

“Bring to your life the best which the world
has to offer in appreciation of literature, music,
dramatics, art. Be sensitive to the lovely things of
life. Discover your abilities. Develop your assets.
Practice your new habits until you achieve suc-
cess. Acquire skills, interests and appreciations
which will make you an interesting person. As
you thus make life richer for yourself, as you also
share with others the best which you have to
give, you will gain self-confidence and know the

full meaning of happiness.”—Ruth Fedder in A
Girl Grows Up.

266

“I may safely predict that the education of the
future will be inventive-minded. It will believe
so profoundly in the high value of the inventive
or creative spirit that it will set to itself to develop
that spirit by all means within its power.”—Harry
Ozrerstreet in American Childhood.

“We don’t have to sell recreation in terms of
some extrinsic goal. We can interpret it as it is.
What it is is something that meets the basic needs
of human beings. And we are striving to see
whether it can also meet the needs of a democratic
society. That is all. The needs are psychological,
the needs are social, and the needs are egointegra-
tive, having to do with the integration of the per-
sonality itself.”—Eduard C. Lindeman.

“Can we content ourselves with a superficial
skimming over the surface in mere smatterings of
group dabbling in art, or drama, or music? We
think not. Just as our physical program has grown
until. it challenges to the development of the high-
est skills of which we are capable, so every field
of effort, every art or hobby is entitled to special-

ized technical mastery in its leadership.”
—-V. K. Brown.

“If through recreation you can help to build up
the morale and health and soundness of the.social
order in your community, you are doing your part
toward the preservation and protection of the
United States as truly as if you were a dough-
boy in the army, and more so because it is con-l
structive and not destructive, and because it lasts
not merely during the war but forever. . . . Peoi'
ple are thinking, wondering, how they can serve
America. This is one of the ways. It is an im-
portant one. It is worth doing. If you do it suc-
cessfully within your area and within the sphere
of your personal activities and responsibilities,
you will have done your part to make this nation
standing as a citadel of freedom in a world where.
freedom has come too much to be despised.” '

—David Cushman C oyle. I

    
 

“The justification for park expenditures must
be found in the conditions of modern city life,"

( Continued on page 303)

Photo by Edward B. Lang

3
j
3
1

members of the Newark, New Jersey,
_' Museum Nature Club and the object of
.Lthirty or more outings that they take each year
throughout New Jersey. With most of the outdoor
lareas of the state serving as their laboratory
lland classroom, they find that the hrst-hand
study of natural history is a satisfying spare—
itime activity.
; Representing many professions and eco-
"nomic levels, these residents of Newark and its
Isuburbs have a common enthusiasm for putting
ion old clothes, packing lunches in knapsacks,
glnd spending their leisure hours in tramping
ithrough the woods and fields with other people
13f kindred interests. All enjoy the exercise and
{zompanionship, but their greatest satisfaction

' OUTDOOR NATURE STUDY is the interest of the
l

\

g.omes with learning the names of the plants,
;he birds, or the rocks; with gathering speci-
nens for their private collections, and taking
IIature photographs; with viewing the work-
ng of the laws of nature—the changes of the

.easons, the migrations of the birds, and the
netamorphoses of the insects.

The Newark Museum Nature Club is the
)utcome of an experiment by the Newark
l/Iuseum, begun in 1933, as one phase of a
pare-time activity program for adults that in-
lzluded painting, sketching, modeling, and
‘tamp collecting as well as nature study. In
ltrganizing its nature group the Museum
worked upon the premise that many peOple are

 

 

By EDWARD B. LANG

Science Department
Newark Museum

strongly interested in natural history but need
some help to follow out that interest. The ac-
curacy of this theory was proved by the re-
sponse of nearly a hundred people to the
initial series of lectures and field trips that
surveyed the popular nature hobbies. An in-
formal group known as the Adult Nature
Hobby Group resulted.

Many of the enrollees dropped out as their
initial enthusiasm wore off, but enough re-
turned week after week to encourage a pro—
gram the following year. To satisfy the
overwhelming preference of the members for
outdoor study, as well as their many diverse
interests, more than twenty trips were ar-
ranged by the Museum in 1934. By the end
of that year the group was well enough
established to adopt a formal organization and
take over the planning of its program.

While essentially a field organization, the
Newark Museum Nature Club meets fre~
quently at the Museum and in other ways
keeps a close affiliation with the parent insti-
tution. As well as incorporating the name of
the latter into its own, the club has written
into its constitution the Museum’s original
policy of helping the layman.

Any person over eighteen years of age may
attend as many trips or meetings. as he likes

267

268 THE NEWARK MUSEUM NATURE CLUB

without obligation. As a result of this policy
most of the activities are attended by several
visitors, some interested and some merely
curious, but many of whom return and
eventually become members.

The trips are held on Saturday afternoons or
Sundays on most of the week-ends of the
spring and fall, a few times in the summer,
and once or twice a month in winter. Fre—
quent trips have proved necessary to include
the many interests of the members in every
year’s program and to keep attendance within
reasonable bounds. Last year’s average at-
tendance was thirteen—about the maximum
number of people that most leaders can take
care of with ease. Groups larger than this are
unwieldy, the members tending to wander off
in small groups and miss the information that
the leader has to give.

The leaders are men and women who are
well qualified in one or more branches of
natural history, and who take pleasure in
sharing their knowledge with others. Many
are members of the club, but the majority are
not affiliated——college professors, museum
curators, members of scientific and nature
study organizations, and business men and
women with nature hobbies. These profes-
sional and amateur naturalists of Newark and
its environs have cooperated wholeheartedly
with the club and given to its members an
education in natural history that could not
be obtained by formal study.

The trips are more or less specialized in
character, the subjects as well as the leaders
being chosen according to the season and the
members’ preferences. Birds and flowers are
easily the most pOpular subjects, and each is
the feature of several trips
a year. A fresh water
swamp that lies a few miles
beyond the city limits is
visited every spring when
it contains a considerable
variety of ducks. The up—
land birds are studied on a
“big day” trip taken at the
peak of the May land bird
migrations. A trip may be
taken to the shore in the
late summer, coinciding
with the southward migra—
tions of the sandpipers and

"There are soul-stirring sounds in the
spring. No mistaking them. The rustle
of tiny animals building new nests or
scampering out for a bit of food; the
fluting of birds returned from their vaca-
tions. singing love songs. gossiping a the Passaic River. To!
bit' and house hunting. The watersI re-
leased from their frozen silencel now rush
over stones and embankments, under
bridges, over fallsl telling a joyous story
of freedom as they rush to the sea. The
woods haVe a way of amplifying sound.
There is' too' a deep' healing fragrance
of the earth. Millions of buds are burst-
ing to tell their story."—Lillian Cox
Atbey in National Nature News.

plovers, or in November when the waterfowl
are moving again. The seasonal successwn of
the ferns and flowering plants are followed in
a similar manner with trips in spring, summer,
and fall.

Minerals follow closely in popularity, being
collected once or twice a year at one of several
quarries and mines that are near enough for
one-day trips. Pond and stream life, including
aquatic insects and plants, amphibians, turtles,
and fish, is collected and studied at least once
a year, while an insect collecting trip is an
annual June event. Fungi, seeds, and fruits
are popular as objects of research in the fall,
and the identification of trees by bark and twig
characteristics in the winter.

The unique attractions of winter make it
possible to continue the field trip program
throughout the year. Plaster casts of the tracks
of raccoons, squirrels, and mice were made one
snowy December afternoon along a frozen
stream bank. Mosses, frozen solid by near-
zero temperature, were collected on another
occasion—-—with a geologist’s pick! One of the
most successful of the 1938 trips was a Jan-
uary outing for nature photographers. Twenty-
eight peOple, carrying equipment ranging from
box cameras to expensive miniatures, spent
the day in Essex County’s South Mountain
Reservation photographing such diverse sub-
jects as ice formations and insect galls.

Most of the club’s trips are taken within a
twenty-five mile radius of Newark. While this
is a relatively small area populated by severa'
million people, there is within its limits a Wldf
variety of places of interest to the- naturalist
There are two large parks within the city; ‘2
few miles outside are a state and a nationa-
park, several county reser
vations, extenSive tracts
farm land, a drained sal
marsh, and hundreds 0
acres of fresh water mars];
around the head waters 0‘.

gether these areas contaiz-
far more plant and anima,’
life than the members Cl
one nature club could learn

   
 
 
 

in many years. ,
Several favorite localitieg
within a few miles of th":

(Continued on page 303)

Music Forums

, LONG WITH other progres-
 sive, urban centers of
the nation’s family, Lit-

le Rock, Arkansas, has of late
ueen examining its "community consciousness” in
leveral fields of activity—among them the de-
'elopment of a liking for worth-while and satis—
{ying musical experiences.

‘ Last spring, as a point of departure in the
I;rowth of its community music program, this
louthern city took an inventory of existing musi-
lal programs and opportunities for participants
I.nd on so doing, developed a highly acceptable
ind permanent contribution to the recreation field
3n the establishment of the quarterly music
lorums. So responsive has been the general pub-
c, as well as music lovers, to this new oppor-
unity for self-expression and cooperative plan-
iiing, that music forums are rapidly becoming a
:=art‘of the community activity programs not only
'If the Capitol City of Arkansas but of communi-
'ies in widely separated points throughout the
itate.
l The Greater Little Rock Music Forum came
‘ltO being in May 1938 through the efforts of the
liational Music Week Committee headed by Mrs.
=V. D. Jackson, Civic Music Chairman of the Ar-
Sansas Federation of Music Clubs and Chairman
f the Steering Committee for the Little Rock
fusical Coterie’s National Music Week Celebra-
on, whose endeavor it was not only to provide
just a week of music” but, to quote the very able
aairman who is also a member of the State and
lational Music Consulting Staffs of the Recrea-
on Division, Works Progress Administration.
to make a concerted attempt to integrate in the
rent, definite civic and philanthropic contribu-
ons to the musical life of
1e community.”

As a preliminary to
Dunding the forum, the
Iational Music Week chair-
lan listed all musical, civic,
hilanthropic, patriotic, edu-
1tional, fraternal, religious
nd social agencies making
se of music at any time. A
IJI'VEy, by questionnaire
hethod, was conducted

!

By MARGARET H. LETZIG
Secretary
Greater Little Rock Music Forum

OBJECTIVES OF THE FORUMS

To discover. foster' and give direction to
local talent in the field of music;

To correlate musical activities of existing
organizations and agencies:

To extend musical opportunities to talent in
the community—through festivals, concerts.
radio programs and auditions;

To take music "around the year" in the cal-
endar of community recreation—through
increased community participation.

through key persons in each
grouping. The information
obtained from this survey was
used as a basis for organizing
the first music forum.

The organization of the Greater Little Rock
Music Forum has provided along informal lines
for the selection of a chairman to serve currently
at each quarterly meeting. The only permanent
officer of the forum is a secretary, a volunteer,
who serves with the approval of the forum plan-
ning committee with sponsorship by the Civic Re-
lations Committee of the Little Rock Musical
Coterie, the oldest local musical organization and
federated music club.

The governing or planning committee for the
music forums includes members of the sponsoring
Civic Relations Committee together with the presi-
dents, chairmen or directors of all music clubs,
departments or musical performing groups in the
locality.

From many sections of ‘the state came groups
of music lovers to that first music forum, to band
together for study of the community progress in
music making, for mutual pleasure and advance-
ment. “How to provide for musically and hu-
manly more and more substantial and vital ex-
periences by people” is the fine challenge to the
music. forum group, according to a recent analysis
of the growth of the Little Rock Music Forum by
Augustus D. Zanzig, Director of the Music Ser-
vice of the National Recreation Association.
Accepting as its special charge the guidance of
similar group participation throughout the state,
the Greater Little Rock Music Forum endeavored
to start program planning and directing local
talent from a point where the capacities and
tastes of the community
“already are.”

Originating from the de-
sire to foster a wider par-
ticipation in community
music as a fruitful form of
group activity, and to in-
crease that “liking” under
the nurturing of fine, though
however simple music, to
the end that even with an
inevitable and keen realiza-

269

270

tion of the shortcom—
ings of the existing
community programs
they might endure, these
music forums have re—
sulted in the correla—
tion of activities of the
established programs
and in the initiation of
new and enlarged pro-
grams of musical ac-
tivities, not only with—
in the confine of Great—
er Little Rock but also
within the areas of near-
by State Parks and
several surrounding
counties of Arkansas.
The recreational mu-
sic program in Arkan-
sas as early as 1936 had
the consulting services
of Mrs. Florence H.
Botsford, international-
ly known for fine folk
song collections of all
nations, who reminded
the southern group that
“the promotion of rec—
reational music is a task
requiring a knowledge
of music science, and
ability to stimulate in
laymen a desire for
good music. Since music
ranks high as an indus-
try in the United

States, it is very important
to cultivate this market
through an intelligent pro—
gram rather than through the desultory methods
usually followed. We have watched the results of
the program as carried out in the eastern states
and have been gratified by the general cultural up-
lift, among thousands of people.”

Profiting by this and similar advice, the com—
munity music leaders of Arkansas have endeav—
ored to keep their standard high, not sacrificing
ideals for the easier but more superficial work in
program planning or talent selection.

National Music Week in May 1939 will witness
the organization of numerous music forum groups
fostered by the Civic Relations Committee of

.MUSIC FORUMS

 

Courtesy Little Rock Recreation Commission

The dancing 0F +he Swiss Weggis was
one of the numbers on a local program

local clubs afEliate
with the Arkansas Stal
Federation of Mus
Clubs. Out of the:
music forums, held fir:
as discussion, and the
as planning groups,
is expected that the]
will grow the Summe
Music Activities Con
mittees, just as the1
grew that voluntee
civic committee in tl
Capitol City of Arkai
sas, which, during tl
summer of 1938, und:
the auspices of the Li
tle Rock Recreatio
Commission, sponsore
four major summt
music festivals and
closing summer pla]
ground festival bring
ing together volunte:
professional and am:
teur talent in the lielt
of music and dancing
enhanced by bits of on
door pageantry, to e:
tertain large and 61
thusiastic outdoor and
ences at the City Pal
Band Shell and the Li
tle Rock High Scho'
Stadium.

For years there he
been a series of bag

concerts each summer at t!

City Park, but the Mus

Activities Committee 5 6‘

Agencies which became enthusiastic over t
summer music festivals through participation i
the Greater Little Rock Music Forums include‘
Civic Music Association; Civic Relations C01
mittee, Little Rock Musical Coterie; Civic C01
mittee, State Federation of Music Clubs (:al'
Radio, Philanthropic and Music in Industry C01

larged the additional five programs to outstandii.
proportions. Orchestra and band music, fol
dancing, community sings, specialties, novel:l
acts, solos and stunts, together with especial
organized choruses from industrial, choir a1
spirituals singer groups, crowded the programs-l

 

l

l

MUSIC FORUMS .271

mittees); Div1510n of Recreation, Works Prog—
ress Administration; Federal Music Project.
Works Progress Administration; Little Rock Rec»
reation; Directors of High School Bands; Teach—
ars of Public School Music; Private Music Teach—
ers; Choirs and. Choral Groups; Arkansas Na—
tional Guard Military Band; Musicians Union;
{Woman’s Chorus, Rural Home Demonstration
Clubs; Music Committee, Little Rock Council
IParent-Teacher Associations; Community Center
Lgroups; Music Committee, Young Women’s
Christian Association; Leaders Association, Little
Rock Council of Girl Scouts; 'Quapaw Area Boy
Scouts; Boys Glee Club, Young Men’s Christian
IAssociation; Music Departments, Little Rock and
I.\iorth Little Rock Boys Clubs ; Orchestra groups:
Arkansas Amusement Corporation (commercial
notion pictures); Artists Series Concerts; Fed—
:ral Forum Project; press and local Radio
IStations.

 

Local business firms and merchants generously
:ontributed decorations for each entertainment
'OIEId during the summer. The musical instruments,
treet car advertising, printed programs, screens
lImd projectors for community sings, special light-
hug effects and public address systems, transporta—
lion and refreshments for performers and other
..ids were contributed by dealers.

l Supervision of the facilities were provided by
[he VVPA recreation leaders, assistants to the Lit-
Ile Rock Recreation Commission.
If he City Police and Fire Depart-
nent and the Parks Committee

:f the City Council gave valuable
ssistance.

During the extremely hot sum—
Iner months, four of these eve-
ling music festivals in the cool
,utdoor setting of the City Park
'iand Shell, invited the attention
f thousands of Little Rock’s
itizens who came afoot and by
lotor to applaud the efforts of
‘nat small group of enthusiastic
-ommittee members who were
triving to develop a community
iste in music which_will demand
lat the technical quality of its
rograms be constantly improved
1 order that they may not be-
ame too feeble or -mediocre to
rvive the competition with in-

numerable other pastimes that attract the public
notice.

The summer music festivals, each with a special
chairman, gave opportunities for a wide variety
of local talent under the able chairmanship of
Mrs. Dot Kennan, Director of Service and Pro—
fessional Projects, Works Progress Administra-
tion of Arkansas, with supervision of the Fed-
eral Music Project; Mrs. R. E. Overman, wife
of the city’s mayor, 1939 State Civic Music chair—
man of the A. F. MC. and long a director of the '
Little Rock Civic Music Association, and Mrs.
3ertha Kirby Nelson, president of the Little
Rock Musical Coterie, who is herself an accom-
plished pianist and assistant to Mrs. Frank
Vaughan in her local booking agency for Artist
Concert Series and other current musical attrac—
tions. These capable community leaders gave tire—
less efforts to putting across the summer music
program, and literally “rolled up their sleeves”
and went to work not only to secure professionally
recognized artist numbers, but community choruses
and folk dance groups as well.

Proof of the local interest in the summer music
festival was attested by the capacity audience
which crowded the July program at the Little

Some of the recreation leaders at the music
institute held at Onachita National Forest

 

272 MUSIC FORUMS

Rock High School Auditorium. This presenta-
tion, scheduled for the plaza of the Arkansas State
Capitol building, was, due to inclement weather,
removed indoors, where despite the mid-summer
heat the seating capacity was exhausted and more
than 2,000 persons from all walks of society were
turned away.

Increased attendance was recorded also at the
already established series of eight summer band
concerts, arranged by the Little Rock Civic Music
«Association to employ local musicians from funds
contributed annually by local business hrms.

Since Arkansas embraces a large part of that
national playground, the beautiful, scenic Ozark
Hills and mOUntains, no more picturesque spot
could have been selected for sunset concerts and
sings and Indian summer music festivals than the
majestic, boulder—strewn plaza of The Lodge at
Petit Jean State Park, Morrilton, Arkansas, and
the pine-encompassed waterfront of the man—
made Lake Bailey reposing atop this same moun-
tainous elevation in the heart of Arkansas’ foot-
hills. Musical talent from seven surrounding
counties and from Fort Smith and Little Rock
voluntarily came varying distances from over one
hundred miles to a few miles away to participate
in the sunset programs. Over two thousand visit-
ors were enumerated by the State Parks Service
on those occasions. Quoting from the remarks
of the chairman of the State Parks Commission
these musical programs were considered: “the
very best type of entertainment that we have been
able to offer in any State Park in Arkansas.”
Music and pageantry were also presented by com-
munity effort in cooperation with the State Parks
Service and the Division of Recreation, Works
Progress Administration, in other sites of State
Park System. The musical offering of “El Ban-
dino” at Crowley’s Ridge State Park at Walcott,
was so enthusiastically received as to lead to plans
for additional presentations during the coming
season.

The October Music Forum of Greater Little
Rock chose for its ensuing occupation “the cor—
relation of all fall and winter music activities” in
the civic life of this area. The Monthly Music
Calendar, calling attention to all major musical
events, to dramatizations using musical accom-
paniment, to radio programs employing musical
background as well as the weekly and monthly
programs and practice hours of musical organi—
zations and units and hours of appreciation
courses, made its appearance following the fall

meeting of the Greater Little Rock Music Forum.
With welcome regularity the calendar, compiled
by the Forum Committee, is issued and distributed
through the music committees of the Little Rock
Council of Parent-Teacher Associations, local
civic clubs and through the Little Rock public
schools.

Early in the autumn season all the local dance
orchestras presented a large combined dance pro,-
gram at the Rainbow Gardens under sponsorship
of the local Federation of Musicians—wthe pro:-
fessional union group. The beneficiaries of the
dance were Little Rock Symphony Orchestra and
the Little Rock Civic Music Association, whose
eighth annual presentation of its Christmas pro-
gram, “The Messiah,” followed shortly after; In
this were combined for the first time choral
groups from several central Arkansas cities.

November, December and subsequent months
witnessed the inclusion of more music in the
monthly programs of civic, social and patriotic
organizations, giving increased opportunities f01
the discovery and presentation of local talent
Musical revues and tableaux sponsored by loca'
civic clubs have'attracted capacity crowds, ant
at the Christmas season there was a renewed in-
terest in the significant religious note in season:
able music programs.

The living municipal Christmas Tree wa:
planted and dedicated to the strains of Christma:
carols in special arrangement by the Brass Choi:
of the Little Rock High School Band. During.
Christmas week over 1,000 children’s voices from;
the Public School Music Departments for the firs.
time re—echoed in massed singing on the porticr
of Little Rock’s expansive and imposing Senio
High School building.

Sunday afternoon audiences at concerts by th'r
varsity orchestras and bands and choral group
have been increased when a note of variety ha
been added to the programs following open dis
cussions at the Music Forums. The Arkansa'
State Legislature at its 1939 closing session 53
attentive and appreciative to the sustained note.
of the A Capella Choir of the Little Rock Hig’f
School. Good music is indeed becoming a vita.-
part and parcel of the experience of the genera
populace of Arkansas.

Revival of American folk lore and the teachin'
of European folk songs and dances through leadl
ership training groups under the supervision '0“
the Little Rock Recreation Commission, the Littll

( Continued on page 304)

' t'

playground program, the emphasis is constantly
laid by the leader on devising methods of pre—
senting the subject in a way which will make it
outeresting and vital to the children through their
’laarticipation in the program in constructive ways.
In many cities activities of various kinds are
)eing included in the program. Some of these are
1 part of the daily routine; others are introduced
)eriodically as special features.
The program which has been used on the play-
grounds of Reading, Pennsylvania, is typical of
nany of the methods employed.

"I N PLANNING the safety features of the summer

  
   
  
  
     

Specific Activities

Daily inspection of playground equipment by
:he leaders, assisted by a committee of children.
ules should be posted for the safe use of each
)iece of apparatus.

Appropriate safety posters placed on bulletin
Joards and changed at regular intervals. Pictures
for the posters may be cut from old magazines.

The election of a safety committee of children

:0 serve for a definite period of time. Their duties

‘ ;hou1d be:

To assist leaders in inspection of equipment

To assist in the collection of safety posters or
other appropriate material for the bulletin
board

Preparation of safety plays and pageants to be

I )resented on the playground.

Use of publicity which will inform the com-

- nunity of the part played by playgrounds in the

l )revention of traffic accidents to children.

Duties of Children’s Safety Committee

To inspect daily grounds and apparatus for
)ossible accident hazards such as:
Projecting nails, splinters or other sharp or
rough places on any of the apparatus
Loose bolts or nails in the apparatus

Apparatus——broken, cracked, or worn so as to
be unsafe

Bracing of swings

Broken glass, bottles, boards, etc., on grounds
and in sand boxes.

To assist the director in enforcing safety rules

To help in the regulation of general playground

Safety on the Playground

activities and games so as to avoid accidents. The
following precautions are suggested :
Keeping small children from apparatus other
than pieces intended for their use.

Keeping older children away from apparatus
reserved for younger children

Keeping children from running into the street
after balls

Seeing that spectators are kept well back from
such games as baseball and volley ball.

The Program

Safety songs, plays, games, talks, and a poster
making contest may be used in developing the pro-
gram. Parents of the children should be‘asked to
attend the meetings and the special safety events.

Safety Clubs

How to Organize Clubs. Call a meeting during
the first week of the playground season. Previous
to this meeting post a notice of the meeting on the
bulletin board and have posters calling attention
to the purpose of the meeting.

At the first meeting the objectives of the club
should be clearly explained to the children and
their interest and cooperation secured, if the pro-
gram is to be a success. After the objectives have
been clearly outlined, the eligibility and club re-
quirements and pledges to be taken should be
carefully explained. The children are then asked
how many wish to join.

Eligibility. Any boy or girl between the ages of
eight and sixteen years may become a member of

the club by repeating the pledge at a regular club
meeting.

Requirements. Regular meetings should be held
once a week during the summer playground sea-
son, the time to be decided upon by the leader and
the major in charge of the clubs. Each play-
ground may have as many clubs as the leader and
the major can organize, but club membership
should be limited to ten members including the
major, captain, lieutenant, and sergeant. No dues
are to be collected.

The major, who must be at least fourteen years
of age but not more than sixteen years old, should
be appointed by members of the club. The major

(Continued on page 305)
273

 

‘

Have you ever set forth on a
voyage of discovery to find
the resources of your commun-
ity and the country surround-
ing it? You will be amazed
and delighted at the trea-
sures you will Come upon. So
don't fail to plan summer day
trips for playground children
and for the adults as well.

By JULIA ANNE ROGERS
National Recreation Association

Courtesy Cleveland, Ohio. Metropolitan Parks

To see What They Can See

IKE THE BEAR who went over the mountain,
L playground children enjoy short trips and
hikes “to see what they can see.” Scenes that
are commonplace to adult eyes are interesting and
sometimes amazing to little people looking on
them for the first time. Short hikes may be
planned which their elders, too, will find fascinat-
ing. The resources of almost any locality are well-
nigh inexhaustible; adults are constantly surprised
to discover such treasures as picturesque covered
bridges, historic houses, secluded waterfalls, rare
trees and unique crafts colonies in territory com-
paratively near their own homes.

By all means schedule a few trips in the sum-
mer playground program, keeping in mind that
each hike or trip should have an objective, good
leadership, and adequate preparation. The 0b—
jectives should never be pursued doggedly to the
exclusion of enjoyment of the hikes. The list of
possible objectives which follows was taken in
part from the projected playground hike program
of St. Paul, Minnesota, for the spring and sum-
mer of this year.

Objectives

Trip to study plant life. To stimulate interest in
plants, Howers, shrubs, trees and grasses—their
forms, habitats, and methods of growth.

274

Trip to study wild life. To encourage interest in
the-appearance, habits and natural haunts of ani-3
mals, birds, reptiles and insects—and the interde?‘
pendence of these creatures and human beings.
One form of wild life may be taken as an objete
tive on a single trip, if desired; for example, bird:
walks, or butterfly walks. |

Trip to study a stream or brook. To demonstrate:
how streams act upon their surroundings, what
animals and plant life they support and to ShOWt
their place in our great natural drainage systeml

Such a trip often follows the bed of the stream. f."

Trip to study rock formations and fossils. To i1}:
terest hikers in how rocks are formed and types»
of animal and plant life recorded in sedimentary
rocks.

Trip to a farm or ranch. To acquaint city chil
dren with some of the common domestic animals
and to show how foodstuffs are grown.

Visit to zoo. state fishery or natural history
museum. To interest hikers in various types :0
animals, £151] and birds, and to emphasize preser
vation of wild life.

Trip to see a ball game or other sport. The grou}
is taken to a neighboring playground to witnes
an inter—playgrOUnd game. Or it is taken to '

TO SEE WHAT THEY CAN SEE 275

 

3 Courtesy Essex County, N. 1., Park Commission

L professional baseball game or other sports event.
I Objective, greater knowledge of the game.

' Visits to historic spots and birthplaces of notable

.persons. To encourage interest in history, bio—
graphy and old customs; to demonstrate archi—
tecture and costumes of earlier periods and to
' show the advance in our standard of living. Visits
to Indian mounds or Indian relic museums are
;favorite trips of .this kind.

Visit to a tort. To demonstrate the purpose of

forts and the development of our national
,defense. '

I Visit to a tire station. To demonstrate how com—
munities are protected against fires by scientific

fire extinguishing apparatus and by fire preven—
tion, codes.

Visit to a radio station. To show how stations
plan and send out their commercial, educational,
entertainment and news programs.

Visit to a city or town council meeting. To en-
able groups to observe town or city governing

bodies in session, and to follow parliamentary
gprocedure.

 
  
 
 
 
   

Visit to crafts shop. Indian reservation. industrial
exhibit or factory. To demonstrate parts played

Dy art and science in turning raw materials into
usable articles.

Visit to a post office. To show how United

States mail is collected, classified, sorted and
Jlstributed.

As your playground groups go hik-
ing through nearby parks they will
discover such beauty spots as this

Visit to airport. seaport. railroad terminus
or canal locks. To familiarize hikers with
methods of shipment and transportation
and with construction of airplanes, en—
gines, ships and locks.

Trip to nationalI state or municipal park.
To demonstrate how to prepare an out—
door meal with or without utensils—how
to build a fire for cooking—what safety
rules must be observed in regard to per-
sons, property and nature.

Organization and Leadership Suggestions

Hiking may be promoted as a club activity, or it
may be enjoyed by unorganized groups assembled
for the purpose. It is recommended that separate
hiking groups for boys and girls under fifteen
years of age should be maintained. The. boys’
groups will be led by men, the girls’ groups by
women. The boys and girls of sixteen years and
over may have combined hikes if there is a quali—
fied leader available—one who is the comrade
type, able to guide the group tactfully into desir—
able types of activities. Such a leader must be
fully aware of his responsibility and the import—
ance of such matters as strict observation of hours
of return.

There is much to be said in favor of two—
leader hikes. On a two—leader hike, one leader
may act as guide and pace-maker; the other is free
to watch details and to handle such minor emer—
gencies as splinters in fingers so that the hike as a
whole may go on undisturbed. Where the hike’s
objective is a specialized one such as geology or
entomology, it is sometimes possible to secure an
expert outside volunteer leader. (The playground
leader, of course, always goes along as official
shepherd of the Hock.) The expert guest leader
adds definitely to the prestige and interest of a
hike. Hikers will never be tempted to regard a
nature trip as unimportant after they have ac—
companied, for example, an enthusiastic bona fide
botanist with his cherished specimen box. Don’t
hesitate to invite really distinguished persons to
lead hikes. They can always refuse, but often

276 TO SEE WHAT THEY CAN SEE

they are pleased to comply. Another type of guest
leader that may be an asset to a hike is the dyed—
in-the-wool hiker, the woods lover who would
rather hike than eat and knows every trail by
heart.

Preparation for the Hike

Preparation for a hike includes a reconnaissance
of the ground in advance by the leader to estimate
time and to note all the points of interest. The
director of a recreation center must approve all
details of a hike before it is undertaken. The bike
should be advertised well in advance, on posters
on the bulletin boards, in the playground newspa-
per—and in the local newspaper, if you like. An-
nouncements should state the objectives of the
hike, the time of meeting, the length of the hike
in hours and mileage, age groups involved, and
expense, if any.

Estimate the ability of your walkers and plan a
trip easily within their powers. Every effort
should be made to confine the trip to the age
group intended. By sending notes to parents men-
tioning details of the hike and emphasizing the
age group invited, a leader may avoid most of the
“Here’s my little sister. Can she go too?” diffi-
culty. Parents appreciate these notes; with them
should be enclosed junior hikers’ permission-
slips for parents to sign.

The matter of carfare should be thought of. If
a local transportation company or a local civic or-
ganization has been persuaded to arrange for free
transportation of hikers to the point“ of departure,
state in all announcements, “Free transportation
through courtesy of the Blankville Rapid Transit
Company, (or the Blankville Civic
Club)” ; but if hikers are expected
to provide their own carfares, state
the amount in the announcement.

Every leader knows what suit-
able clothing for country hiking
is ; but many underprivileged peo-
ple do not possess proper shoes
and sports clothes. Such hikers
have to do the best they can,
after receiving tactful guidance
beforehand in the matter of at-
tire. Armbands or playground
caps, made by the children in
handcraft classes, are a help to a
leader in keeping track of juve-
nile ramblers and the children
love to wear them.

 

For short hikes, the question of special equip-
ment is not so important as on long excursions.
Even for short hikes, though, a leader may wisely
take along a first-aid kit containing bicarbonate of
soda, tincture of iodine, gauze bandage and safet}
pins, and blunt scissors. Added to this may beja
supply of paper towels, paper cups, a compass and
a jackknife, and, of course, the indispensable
whistle. '

Food is a good picker-upper on a hike; dried
fruit, nuts or chocolate bars are easiest to carry
But if the trip is to involve cooking out, haxje
food ready to transport in knapsacks. If the
goal is a farm, or a park with cooking facilities, 51
may be possible to have the food sent ahead tc
this point, thus eliminating the necessity of carry-
ing bulky parcels. The subject of food is amply
dealt with in “Day Hikes” listed at the end of
this article.

Preparing the hikers for the hike is a part of
the program to which it is worthwhile to devote
one or more periods on days preceding the hike
The objectives of the hike should be discussed it
group meeting. With the aid of pictures, books
maps and specimens, pre-view the terrain to be
explored if it is to be a country trip, discuss the
wild life, talk about the historical periods repre-
sented by old landmarks. (For example, y01
might prepare for a pilgrimage to an ancient mil
by studying its history, its architecture—nativ:
stone, hand-hewed beams—and suggest that hik
ers invite a certain old inhabitant of the region
whom somebody in the group knows to meet then;
at the mill, explain its workings, and tell storie‘l
of the old days.) Get ready to acquire specimen

 

Courtesy Essex County, N. 1., Park Commissfo

TO SEE WHAT THEY CAN SEE 277

by having the hikers prepare in crafts class col-
[.ecting-apparatus—nets for catching insects, shoe-
ooxes with holes punched in them for transport-
ing said insects. Poison ivy deserves mention in
my preview of a country ramble. Show pictures
)f it and call attention to it when on the hike.

1 In preparing for a hike, pass around a compass
in the group and explain it. One veteran hike
geader always displays his pedometer, a gadget
ivorn on the ankle to measure mileage, which
iiikers invariably find amusing. For a country
i . -
gramp buy a Geodetic Survey map of the locality
Erou intend to visit. (These maps are obtainable
j'rom book stores or from the U. S. Coast and
Eeodetic Survey, Washington, D. C. Price twenty
.ents). One of the hikers will carry the map and
nark the route as you go. While the map-minded
[01k of the hiking group are discussing routes,
he musical and poetic contingent may go into a
:uddle and compose a special hiking song. Tunes
juch as “Over Hill, Over Dale” (Caisson Song),
lFuniculi, Funicula,” or “The Foot Traveler”

13nd themselves to the walking rhythm.

, On the day of the hike, just before you set out,
l-ssemble the crowd, count noses, and issue brief
istructions. These instructions, where children
re involved, should concern obedience to the
flowing of the whistle, behavior suitable to the
,lace visited, and—for a country hike—the rules
if the Open road.

j On the Hike

On a country walk, young hikers will skip like
j'mbs; they will sniff the air, and prance, and roll
.1 the grass. Much of their play is the aimless en-
)yment of their quickened senses. A wise leader,
"alizing that this exuberance is the choicest gift
'1at the day will offer them, will not try to pin
“m the frolickers to activities until they are
:ady for them. But when the first excitement has
orn off, and before boredom sets in, then the
Iader may direct attention to the birds, the trees,
ie Howers and the animals. Make the most of
'hatever the vicinity has to offer. One group of
ochester, New York, children, climbing the face
.’ a cliff, discovered a stratum of natural clay.
hey stopped then and there to fashion objects of
e clay, delighted to find out how clay is obtained.
.nother group of children found a hollow tree,
[(1 the procession could not move on until every
"t child had climbed in and out. Palo Alto chil-

'en on a hike explored a small cave, with the aid
* candles.

   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 

There are so many country pleasures—such as
skipping stones in a pond, and learning how to
produce an unearthly screech by holding a blade
of grass between one’s fingers and blowing on it—
and there is often small time for games. Active
games played on a hike may be of the very sim-
plest order, such as choosing a tree and letting
each player, in turn, throw a pebble at it, scoring
points for hitting it. Such games as Duck on a
Rock, Bull in the Ring, Cat and Rat, and Three
Deep, are often enjoyed in the interludes of hikes.
If you are sending food ahead of the hikers by
automobile, you might also put into the car some
game equipment. For example, a dart game, made
by the children as a handcraft project, may be
included. Archery is a traditional woodland sport
which is always p0pular; some fortunate groups
will have sets, made in woodworking class, which
they can take along. No leader will need to be
reminded that a softball, a bat, and a few bean-
bags will earn their space in the carryall car.

When the wanderers settle down for a rest, the
making of willow whistles and the constructing of
dolls out of pine cones, acorns, twigs or other
available materials will keep adults as well as chil-
dren absorbed. (There is a bulletin, issued by the
National Recreation Association, price ten cents,
that suggests ways of making (10115 of natural
materials.)

Another happy occupation for the rest period
is storytelling. Nature fables (particularly the
Greek fables) go well on such occasions. Fairy
tales, Indian legends, pioneer stories—all these
seem to fit into the outdoor background. Good
poetry is sometimes well received by children in
surroundings of natural beauty 'when it would
otherwise be meaningless. Outdoor dramatics of
the impromptu sort may often be successfully in—
dulged in. Possibly the children will feel moved
to pantomime the fables of Icarus, Atalanta or
Theseus and the Minotaur, or some local legend
that captures their fancy. If the children have
been initiated into the fun of choral speaking at
the playground, they may want to “do” a poem
against a background of echoing hillside. Group
singing need hardly be mentioned, it is so natural
and inevitable an expression of outdoor freedom

and happiness.

Indirect Results of the Hike

A good hike furnishes material for many a
playground and home project and hobby. Shells,

(Continucd on page 306)

Salem Builds Swimming Pools

013 TO THE mother hen whose
W brood of ducklings chances

to fmd a pond of water!
And sad, too, the plight of the
worried parent whose child starts out on a hot
summer day to look for a cooling splash in pond
or stream! N o matter whether the stream be pol-
luted or the river tilled with “holes” and eddies,
anticipation of a plunge in the refreshing waters
dispels all fear and caution. What community near
such unguarded danger spots does not have writ-
ten in its pages of recreation history heartbreak-
ing tragedy and regret?

Five years ago Salem saw its golden oppor-
tunity to provide a safe swimming program to re-
place. the mill stream and river of the past. It
came about in this way:

Federal agencies (S.E.R.A. and C.W.A.) of-
fered to supply the assistance in
labor necessary to build two

By SILAs GAISER

Superintendent of Schools
Salem. Oregon

A free swimming period at one of

splendid pools, strategically locategl
in two parts of this city of 30,00p
people. A school board, civic-
minded and recreation-conscioul.
assumed the obligation for the capital outlay tp
make these projects possible. On the grounds ojf
a junior high school and the senior high schodl
there was ample space for pools, and here tlije
projects took form. Pools and bathhouses were
completed on both sites, amid ideal surroundings,
not only for swimming, but for a complete recrtj-
ation program. Picnic grounds, playgrounds, base-
ball field, school buildings for indoor activities—'—
all these help make the setting complete.

The dimensions of the pools are 100 x 45 and
110 x 55. Each is located in a heavy center of
school population; in fact, the two pools are on
the sites of two general recreation and school
areas of the city. The pools are

(Continued on page 306)

Salem's municipal swimming pools

Ml .'

"1 1.. '3‘ ‘V‘K?  r71: 5

— I O ‘

278

 

.. ma
‘
l

.r- I1 I ‘. r
‘ ’ _ ,  i. 9

Wanted—a Public Relations Counsel

Murphy, Santa Claus, or a

New Dealer were to ask
,gme what gift I would like best
’for the Oak Park Playgrounds, I would say “a
l’public relations counsel.” I would say this be-
cause one of the most important elements lacking
"both in our recreational philos0phy and program
is an intelligent understanding of the attitude of
’the public towards us. As recreation executives
_'we don’t know enough about what is the mine-
run of the public’s thinking. We have not recon-
jciled recreational knowledge with public opinion.
‘Or, in other words, our program and objectives
need interpreting to the public in social and eco-
rnomic terms and the public’s wishes need inter—
preting to us. .
j For this we need a public relations counsel.
What is this hypothetical counsel and what is its
:job? Briefly, he is a morale builder, a middle man,
an interpreter. His job is to bring our policies
into line with public opinion. His first step is to
analyze the recreation department’s program and
objectives on the basis of the knowledge he has
secured from the study of the relationship of the
recreation program to the community. He must
know the function of the department and draw
up, with the cooperation of the chief executive,
the policies of that department. It is important to
know that this morale building begins at home.
The counsel “devises and modifies circumstances,”
as someone has put it, “before they become word
and deed.” He is responsible for the attitude of
the workers toward their executive; of the execu-
tive to the workers; of the workers to the public.
! \Ve have not had a clear policy of our own;
here is where, in my opinion, we have most failed.
We are “fuzzy-minded” about the matter. So
Well have some of the great business firms of the
country built up this morale, this “enlightened
self-interest,” that the compan-
ies have received tremendous
dividends in loyalty and effici-
‘éency, and the workers as im-
portant ones in well-being and
happiness. I see no reason why
recreation systems cannot pay
similar dividends. They are ow-
,ng our Boards, owing our-

; I r A ROCKEFELLER, a Walter

.9.—

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

By JOSEPHINE BLACKSTOCK

Superintendent of Playgrounds
Oak Park. Illinois

Perhaps we can't all have a public
relations counsel on our recreation
staff. but there's nothing to pre-
vent our dreaming about it. and we
might even be counsels ourselves in
a small way! This article suggests
some-of the things which might be
done and the values to be hoped for.

selves as executives, owing our
staff.

A major job of this counsel
is to acquaint himself with
every form of contact with the public, with all
avenues of approach, whether they be booklets,
posters, newspapers, magazines, letters, motion
pictures, radio, lectures, photographs, drama, or
personal contacts. This means knowing his sub-
ject. It means applied psychology. It means un-
derstanding attitudes of mind. It means retaining
a clear picture of the nature and range of apti-
tudes. Here again we might well borrow from the
experiences of great business firms. General
Electric invented the House of Magic—we saw
it at a Century of Progress. Today there are
thousands of people pouring in every week to
Schenectady to see these dramatized products.
The same company is always feeding the news-
papers with technological news stories about such
discoveries from their laboratories as plastic heels
for women’s shoes or a microscopic film to make
glass invisible. The papers can’t get enough of
these. Couldn’t our recreation counsel do a lot
along a similar line? What human interest stories
we have if we were only alive to them! Know-
ing his psychology, he would aim at the emotions
with trained accuracy, knowing that in children
and their concerns he has “the great tribal ap-
peal to the, protective emotions.”

Rockefeller Center knew its psychology when it
built a sidewalk superintendents’ club, a covered
place for people to watch a large excavation proj-
ect. Oak Park did the same thing last week, build-
ing a bench with an awning cover, where people
could sit and watch the demolition of the old
postoffice and the erection of a new building.

A meat packing concern persuaded a group of
doctors to announce that people should eat
heavier breakfasts. The consequences were that
many more pounds of bacon
were bought. What about a
similar statement that grown
pe0ple need more active play?
To borrow a business term, we
are dealing with a buying pub-
lic—a public buying ideas from
us instead of bacon or electric
light. These people think dif—

279

280 WANTED

 

ferently as citizens and as parents, as someone has
pointed out. The counsel must reach both sides
for this thinking of theirs results much more from
their everyday experiences than from what they
are told in print. The counsel must know the un—
derlying motives that impel people to thought and
action. He must know what people wish to know
and have, both in a recreation program and in the
manner of dispensing it, and then get it to them
with the special stamp, the viewpoint, the policy
of the recreation department he represents. He
is out to capture public opinion and that is a tre-
mendous job, for people today are doubtless tak-

 

Courtesy New York City Board of Education

There is need for the community to know more
about the ways in which its recreation pro-
gram is providing satistactions for children.
A public relations counsel could help here.

ing a more intelligent interest inatheir government
service than they have ever before, but they are
taking a more critical one at the same time. As
recreation executives we need to know more about
what the community as a whole is thinking of our
project; we must worry about our standing with
the public.

What sort of person must this counsel of pub—
lic relations be? Bernay, the foremost public re-

' showing the various departments—water, Fire,

A PUBLIC RELATIONS COUNSEL

lations expert of this country, is of the opinion
that he must have a broad education, strength of
character, an objective mind, the ability to con—
vince, and a knowledge of psychology. He must
be wide awake to new trends and ideas. America}:
Cities magazine thinks that “most community prd-
grams fail because public opinion is shaped from
the outward (publicity) rather than the inward
(public relations) starting point.” It is rare if the
entire program is coordinated and balanced so
that a complete picture of the service in relation
to its cause is continually before the public. No
matter how competent the service may be and how
complete, the job will remain un-
finished until the extent of the
service is made known to the pub-
lic. It works both ways. If an
individual citizen is proud of his
city government the municipal
employee can take pride in it, and
if the latter has pride in his work
he will have the right attitude in
his contacts.

We are learning more and more
the fact that the impetus for rec-
reation comes directly from the
people rather than from the rec-
reation department. In other
words, the important thing about-
recreation is what it does to the
player, not what we do to him so-
that unless we have the good-wills
and understanding of the com-
munity, unless we have madeI
clear to them in plain terms just'
what are our policies, practices,
and purposes, we have failed in!
our job. This hypothetical pub:
lic relations counsel must be alert to indications
of public opinion; at the same time he must reah
ize that we must create public opinion ourselves.
Here is where the hardest part of his job comes.
in. How is he to dramatize the department he.
works for? l

In Oak Park we have worked out one metho‘dl
to give a complete picture of all the Village ser-
vices to our community. We are writing a sketch

 

health, playground and others—in action, show;
ing the day’s routine. Social as well as dollar-i
and—cent facts will be shown in the answers. Wei
will use the Chinese property man to make our]

(Continued on page 308)

Our National Parks

l
5 UR NATIONAL PARKS are areas
i O of superlative scenery, which
i are set apart and maintained
by the Federal Government for the
i use and the enjoyment of the peo—
! ple. They are the people’s prOperty, the Govern-
! ment acting as the people’s agent and trustee.
l These parks are distinctly an American institu-
| tion. The national park idea had its inception in
the United States, the first of such parks having
, been established here in 1872 by Act of Congress.
1 Today the United States has twenty-five national
parks. The best of our natural scenery and our
most interesting scientific and historic places are
;l retained in public ownership for the benefit and
use of all of the people.

The history of the social use of lands is inter—
esting. Always in the early days, as one traces
‘ the rise and fall of nations, organized government

l meant organization for the ruling few. The
choicest lands were reserved in princely gardens
and forests for the mighty of the world. Heavy,
almost inhuman punishments were meted out to
persons of humble station who shot a bird or four
legged animal in a well-stocked preserve main-
tained for the shooting parties of the lords of the

' manor.

Cornelius Hedges, a lawyer of Montana, ad—
vanced the thought that the individuals forego
personal gain in order that the region, so unlike
anything else in the country, be reserved as a
national park for the benefit of the people for all

I time. As a result, Yellowstone National Park was
established in 1872 as a pleasuring ground.

No consideration of commercialism enters into
park creation. The major function is the promo-
tion of the well—being of Americans through the

_ health-giving qualities of inspiration, relaxation,
and recreation in pure, un—
polluted air, in natural sur-
lroundings of inspiring
grandeur.

Most of the national parks
have public camp grounds
I for motorists bringing their
own camp outfits. The
grounds are equipped with
Irunning water, modern sci-
. entilic conveniences, outdoor

 

 

 

 

By PHILIP L. SEMAN

General Director
Jewish People's Institute
* ChicagoI Illinois

In April, I937. Dr. Seman gave an address
at a National Youth Administration insti-
tute on "What the Government Can Do
and Should Do for Communities in the Field
of Recreation.'I 'A number of develop-

ments have marked the progress of the
service of the National Parks since that

date. but because of the background which
Dr. Seman gives ot the history and pro-
gram of the National Parks. we are pre-
senting a number of extracts from his talk.

fireplaces, electric lights, and places
to wash clothes. These are under
the close supervision of park au-
thorities. Safety and freedom from
annoyance are assured. No charge
is made for camping privileges.

Connected with the town road system and lead—
ing into and through the parks, excellent systems
of roads have been established. These parks have
many trails, and contain within their boundaries
thousands of miles of trails and footpaths, reach—
ing the surrounding mountain summits and tra—
versing every valley. The systems are so designed
that the inclination of every type of walker is met.
Broad lowland paths offer delightfully easy walks.
Winding trails of easy grade to the mountain
summits are provided for those who like a mod—
erately strenuous climb, and rough, mountainside
trails give opportunity for hardy exercise to those
who enjoy real hiking. It is only by means of
these trails and paths that the parks can be
thoroughly seen and appreciated, and the system
is so laid out that there is no danger of becoming
lost. While no guides are necessary on most of
the park trips, free guides may be obtained at the
information office in many of them, adjoining the
park office, to accompany parties either riding or
hiking.

In many of the parks there are motor and boat
trips provided by the park system for which a
moderate charge is made. Many of the parks have
opportunities for excellent fishing in fresh waters
of lake and stream. Even deep-sea and coastal
fishing identical in life and character with those
of the famous banks which lie ofic shore, adjoining
a number of these parks. The parks provide
power boats, sail boats, canoes, and camp outfits,
with competent guides, at very little cost.

Pre-eminence of the na—
tional park service as the
leader in the recreational
held reached new heights
during the last year with
the establishment of new
parks, the continuation of
emergency programs, and
the enactment of legislation
providing for nation-wide
surveys of areas of interest

281

282 OUR NATIONAL PARKS

from the recreational and educational stand-
point.

Public use of national parks have pointed to
the need of an expanded system. Visitors for the
past travel year number over ten million. All pos-
sible encouragement is given to the development
of snow and ice sports in areas suitable for such
use, in accordance with the popular demand.

Foremost among congressional legislation af-
fecting national parks was the act providing for
the preservation of historic American sites, build-
ings, objects and antiquities of national signifi-
cance, which empowers the Secretary of the In-
terior to conduct a nation-wide survey of historic
buildings and sites and makes it possible for the
Federal Government to acquire those determined

to be of sufficient importance to warrant such
action.

A study has been made to determine the recre-
ational possibilities of Boulder Dam, under which
the National Park System would cooperate with
the Bureau of Reclamation in planning the rec—
reational development along Lake Mead, the larg-
est artihcial lake ever created, extending as it does
I I 5 miles beyond Boulder Dam. In the meantime,
the National Park Service has supervised recrea—
tional development on the lake with the aid of the
Civilian Conservation Corps.

One of the interesting phases of the expanded
program of recreational development undertaken
by the National Park System in cooperation with
the State Park Authorities and State Planning
Boards, has been the development of forty-six
land-use projects designated as recreational dem—
onstration projects. With Re-Settlement Admin-
istration funds, nearly one-half million acres of
land were in process of being acquired at a
cost of approximately hve million dollars. The
areas are being developed as federal projects
through the cooperation of the Re-Settlement
Administration, the Emergency Conservation
Work, and the Works Progress Administration,
either for additions to state systems of parks and
recreational areas as concrete demonstrations in
the better use of certain rural lands or for federal
administration in connection with some existing
unit of the national park system. The forty—six
projects located in twenty-four states are readily‘
accessible to thirty millions of peOple. The ma-

each with a capacity of from 100 to 125 campers,
will soon be in operation. '

For the purpose of determining the progress of
the local park movements during the five year;
period ending in 1935, the National Park Service,
in cooperation with the National Recreation A57
sociation, inaugurated a nation-wide study of.
municipal, county and metropolitan parks. The;
result of this study is proving of great value to
park and recreation movements, and meets a real
demand on the part of state and local park officials
for such up-to—date information.

The Federal Government, through special grants;
provides for the publication of posters calling attené
tion to the availability of parks as vacation areas;

The broadcasting program of the Service,
through the courtesy of the National Broadcast;
ing Company, presented a series of thirteen pro-
grams, covering the major Western parks, over a
national hook-up during the spring months. A
marked increase in the demand for park publica~

tions followed this program.

During the past year, approximately 270 state-
ments on national park activities were prepared
in the Washington office for release to the press,
These covered broad phases of national park'
work. Appropriations for the national park sys—
tems during the past year amounted to eighteen
million dollars. Of this amount, the sum of six-

teen million dollars was authorized in the Interior
Department Act of 1936.

Thus, literally hundreds of millions of acreS”
are set aside for this purpose — supervised,-
Enanced, and directed through government sources. 3
This reveals that the Federal Government has for!
over one hundred years looked upon opportunities;.,

for play of every type, largely of an outdoor

nature, as an essential part of its public social-
service. i"

“To measure the national park movement in
terms of progress per annum can at best be 51.
matter of accounting only in fractions, since the'
movement goes steadily on year after year, eter-
nally producing combinations of results. . . . After
all else has been said, there will still remain thel
fact that the year’s work is simply to keep thel
park movement in adjustment with the one funda"
mental which makes it so indispensable—that rec-s
reation in the full sense of its meaning is indiS‘.

pensable to life.”——George L. Collins and B. H:
Thompson.

    

l

l
|

 

 

Centers for Girls

HE LEISURE time ac-
T tivities of girls from

inadequate homes,
especially little girls six
to ten years of age, are being neglected by all
agencies during the school year in most cities.
Homes may be inadequate. not only because of
poverty but also as a result of overcrowding;
ugliness; lack of comfort, warmth or homelike
atmosphere; and because of social inadequacy,
emotional and economic insecurity. Thus even
girls from wealthy or comfortable middle-class
homes may Wish to spend the greater portion of
their leisure time away from the family or may be
unable to play or entertain even their girl chums
at home.

Especially girls from the crowded older sec-
tions of cities, commonly called “The Flats,”
“Across the Tracks,” “Down by the River,” “The
Gas House District,” often feel socially inferior
because of the section in which they live, their
clothes or general appearance, their way of living,
the occupation of their parents, or their relief
status—wand they do not take advantage of oppor—
tunities offered them outside of their neighbor-
hood. Usually we find very few Girl Scout troops
or Camp Fire groups in these crowded neighbor-
hoods. Often these girls cannot stay after school
to participate in Girl Reserves or other high school
extracurricular activities because they must return
home to help mother, care for younger brothers
and sisters, or work in some other family caring
for young children. In two instances girls of
twelve years ran away from home just because
they were overworked by dictatorial parents While
other girls had time to play. When a girls’ center
was established in the neighborhood, these girls
went there in the evenings
after their work was done
and found the fun and
companionship-theycraved.

If there is no settlement
or similar agency serving
such a district then the
recreation department
should work toward estab-
lishing centers which are
attractive to girls in the
middle of each natural

By ETHEL BOWERS

Field Secretary in Recreation for Women and Girls
National Recreation Association

The author. in describing girls' centers as they
are established in some recreation systems. de-
fines them as "any homelike places where girlsI
especially those from inadequate homesI may
drop in at any time and find activities to en-
ioy alone or in groups. frequently on a co-
recreational basis; and where they may receive
training for homemaking and life situations
under the leadership of charming hostesses
and part-time workers—all of this made pos-
sible through the cooperation of lay women's
groups and municipal recreatioh departments."

neighborhood. Boys will
go further for their
recreation and demand
more spacious facilities,
and parents will let boys cross railroads, bridges
and trafEc arteries when they will not permit their
girls to go more than a few blocks from home,
and then only to such places and leaders as are
known and approved. Therefore, several small,
well-placed centers for girls are more effective
than one huge community center.

Please do not misunderstand. We are not pro—
posing segregated centers for girls, but rather
small centers or parts of centers planned mostly
for girls and for controlled co-recreation activi-
ties, with the boys going to the nearest athletic
centers for their most vigorous games. We be-
lieve thoroughly in cooperation from the earliest
years, feeling that the only natural normal way is
for boys and girls to play together constantly so
there will be no emotional upset at the mid ’teens.
HoWever, co-recreation in certain sections pre-
sents difficulties such as limited facilities, difficulty
of supervision, problems of discipline and inade-
quate leadership, and lack of training for boy-girl
relationships.

For convenience we will call this recreation
project a girls’ center though in fact it is more
of a spirit, an ideal, a philosophy, than it is a
building or a program. A girls’ center may be
conducted in one room or several rooms of a
larger community center, the rest of which is
given over to general community recreation pro-
grams, or it may be in a building of its own.
Four factors must be provided for a successful
girls’ center; leadership, facilities, program and
cooperation. With all of these provided on a per-
' manent continuous basis, a
girls’ center gives girls
who are living an unstable
existence one thing at
least to cling to, and helps
to give them a slight sense
of security. Of the four,
the most important is
leadership.

Leadership

The recreation director

first must have the vision

283

284 CENTERS FOR GIRLS

of what a real girls’ center can do, then find a
mature yet youthful woman who can catch the
vision, to be the permanent director of the center.
A real woman leader can create a girls’ center
spirit anywhere if she is given a free hand, some
cooperation and a place to call her own. She may
be the only full time worker paid with municipal
funds, all others may be volunteers, part time
leaders or specialists or leaders loaned by other
agencies. The others may come and go, but she
should be a permanent worker, year round, every
day, if she is to be a real stabilizing force in the
uncertain lives of these girls. Girls need a sense
of belonging, the guidance of a charming cul-
tured woman, the inspiration of a real leader,
during formative years. The director must be
all this.

The girls’ center director must first of all be a
hostess. It will be her personality, her tact, her way
of meeting and greeting the girls, her joy, the
friendly atmosphere which she creates,
which will turn the “drifter” girl into
a “joiner,” and change the loud, poorly-
trained girl into a charming young
woman, the self-conscious girl into one
of poise; which will help the handi—
capped girl get the thrill of success,
and guide the growth and development
of all the girls so that they feel confi-
dent in taking their rightful place in
Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, Girl Re-
serves, high school extracurricular ac—
tivities and the business world, fortified
with a sense of values that will pro-
tect them from errors of character or
judgment so often resulting in ill—
chosen associates, hasty early marriages
and low homemaking ideals.

It scarcely matters whether the girls’
center director is an activities leader or
not, though a knowledge of music, dra-
matics, handcrafts, homecrafts and
social recreation are assets, especially
when volunteers fail to arrive. She
should be a leader in the finest sense
of the word, a creative inspirational
leader, with some knowledge of club
activities and ability to work through
others, “leading from behind” prefer-
ably. Some of the best girls’ center
directors are women who have been
married, who have gained tolerance,
poise, sympathy and understanding

 

which young unmarried women often lack. Most
important of all, she must have vision, abilify to
inspire the other workers and the girls themselves
with some of her own enthusiasm, ideals and
objectives.

The other workers, paid or volunteer, should
have as- many of these same hostess-leader’s quali-
ties as possible. In any event, they should Le
leaders of girls first and technicians second, for
the music, dramatics or dancing skills which the
girls learn are not nearly as important as the im-
provement in the girl herself, her dress and ap-
pearance, her behavior, voice, character, objectives,
standards, vision and outlook on life.

Part time leaders are usually paid by the hour.
They may be young married women, older women
formerly teachers or other lead—
ers whose children are now

grown, college girls working for
experience and credit in soci—

The girls of America
wherever it is to be
for beauty; eager {0

is your city doing if:

.d

CENTERS FOR GIRLS 285

ology courses, young college graduates on the
substitute list of the superintendent of schools,
other young women irregularly or partially em-
ployed or temporarily unemployed, or workers
loaned by other agencies. In some cases regular
school teachers are used, but not more than two
sessions a week and only if they are real leaders
with a recreational attitude, and only if they can
come to the girls with real enthusiasm. Older
girls of the neighborhood or a member of the Big
Sisters, an organization of outstanding high school
juniors and seniors, may be used in a volunteer
capacity. Adult women with leisure and a desire
to serve are also used as volunteers in many girls’
centers. Some are as dependable and enthusiastic
as paid workers; others serve best on special proj-

ects, helping with parties, leading

Charm School or Hostess Club

Council, (to be described later), in securing co-
operation and supplies. The success of the volun-
teer workers depends almost entirely on the ability
of the director of the girls’ center.

Facilities

A superior woman leader can create a girls’
center almost anywhere and under great difficul-
ties, but if some suitable facilities are provided
her work is easier and her energies are freed for
other problems.

Facilities for a girls’ center should be homelike,
a little better than those found in the homes of
the girls of the neighborhood. Atmosphere can
be created at little expense by the girls themselves
and the Council, or a mothers’ club, all working
together. This has been done in Milwaukee in
school basement rooms some of which were

——-see|<ing happiness
:hing for adventure'

ghip with boys. What
eds of these girls?

originally coal bins. First of all the room was
made attractive by scrubbing and plenty of paint.

Then came bright-colored curtains, in-

discussions, cooperating in out-
ings or trips, or serving on the

 

- .o‘
v '- ,‘

«9 -.
x ‘ “' M- ’«.a'444’9“‘;1k€<t.¢*./.’w mu:  n - , ‘ , .  5‘:

Courtesy Sioux City, Iowa, Department of Recreation

  

teresting cretonne wall hangings, sec—
ond—hand furniture, redecorated and
reupholstered by the girls themselves,
cupboards, shelves and boxes, brightly
decorated by an art class in the Rus-
sian peasant designs, and electrical wir-
ing and lamps, done by the boys or
dads’ club, with shades made by the
girls. Books, magazines, phonograph
and records, radio, piano, rugs and
bric-a—brac, all were contributed by
girls or adults, while games and vases
and paper Howers were made in hand—

craft classes. Money was raised to buy
pots and pans, dishes and silver. Soon
the girls’ center was homelike, softly
lighted, comfortable, efficient, a cheer—
ful place for every beauty-loving girl
from any inadequate home.

A girls’ center can be made any-
where by energetic leaders and coun-
cil members. The poorest one the
writer visited was a girls’ basement
toilet room in an abandoned four-room
school building. The plumbing as old
as the building, was still functioning,
but it had been partitioned off by wall-
board. The rest of the room, about
20x15 feet, was cheerful and practical,
with its bright paint and curtains, table
tennis and other games tables and

286 CENTERS FOR GIRLS

benches, piano and at-
tractive 6’x6’ stage in an
alcove. For parties, shows
and tap dancing classes
the tables were moved
out into the hall. Vigor-
ous games were played
outdoors on suitable days
and a co-recreational
dancing class was taught
in an upstairs office after
office hours. The rest of
the well-balanced girls’
center program and game
room was conducted in
the bedlam of this one crowded room. Using what
very inadequate facilities they had, these women
leaders had created a small but really alive girls’
center.

School rooms can be used as girls’ centers,
especially if they are turned over exclusively to
the recreation department, but their use often pre-
sents problems. School basement rooms usually
have unsightly pipes and meter boxes and are
either too cold or difficult to ventilate, and with
cement floors are often dusty. Upstairs school
rooms are better from the health standpoint, but
with their high ceilings and big windows and
usually the inevitable blackboards, they. are diffi—
cult to decorate. Moreover, schools are closed on
holidays, usually no heat is provided over week-
ends, and there are other factors which militate
against the use of these buildings.

In instances where difficulties prove insur-
mountable, the problem may be met by turning an
abandoned school building, apartment or old resi—
dence into a homelike girls’ center as has been
done in Columbus, Indiana, and Mount Vernon,
New York, and by securing the cooperation of the
superintendent of schools in obtaining the use of
near—by school gymnasium, auditorium, and swim-
ming pool for special events or scheduled weekly
activities. In this way the girls have a sense of
belonging to their center, the women members of
the Council have a personal interest in the center
and its furnishings, yet the girls have the use of
school facilities when they need them for active
games and large gatherings.

In selecting facilities for a girls’ center, it is
wise to remember that the little girls will be leav-
ing it late winter afternoons after dark and older
girls will attend evening activities. Therefore it
should be located on a well—lighted street but not

Look at your program for girls from September
until June. Does it satisfy you fully? Are you
reaching girls intensively or iust giving them
"busy work"? Are you serving the little girls
from inadequate homes both extensively and
intensivelyI every day of the entire year?

Have you trained women workers who work in one
section of town day after dayI year after year?
Or do you shift your workers to different play-
grounds in the springI summer and fall. and to
winter community centers? If you doI that is one

way to ruin any organized girlsI program.

Look at your indoor facilities. Are they home-
likeI attractive to beauty-starved girls and
women? Or do they repel sensitive people!

on a traffic artery, in a
residential neighborhood
in the heart of the area
of crowded, inadequate
homes, which we wish to
serve or equidistant from
two such neighborhoods
if one center must draw
from both. It should not
have adjacent to it ga-
rages, parking lots, lum-
ber yards, factories, rail-
road yards, cemeteries,
unlighted parks, cheap
hotels or boarding houses,

for these may create problems.

Many very successful girls’ centers are in
adapted facilities, especially rented apartments or
in halls or old mansions. The latter are the best
because old woodwork, fireplaces, beautiful stair-
ways, kitchens and other facilities help create just
the atmosphere we want. If such a mansion, well
located, cannot be secured, a first floor apartment
which is typical of those in which the girls live is
an excellent'substitute, preferred by some leaders
because in it We can show the girls how to make
the most of their own facilities at little expense.

Some centers have a complete model apartment
——at least living room, dining room, kitchen, for
all cooking and homemaking classes, Hostess
Clubs, small club parties, etiquette classes, knit-
ting classes and other group activities concerned
with homemaking. This apartment should be in-
expensively yet tastefully furnished to serve as a
good example to girls who are contemplating mar—
riage and homes of their own on small budgets.
The facilities must suit the program and in a
girls’ center the main emphasis is on girls’ inter-
ests and their preparation for womanhood and
homemaking.

Such a center was developed in Mount Vernon,
New York. This girls’ center is a rented five-
room and bath flat, the counterpart of hundreds of
flats in the neighborhood. The front room is a
lounge-library, furnished as is any comfortable
living room, with piano, radio, phonograph, easy
chairs, soft lights, bookcase, davenport, rugs and
curtains. All club meetings, special lectures, dis-
cussions, knitting classes, small tap dancing
classes, music groups, in fact any activity which
would not harm the furnishings, are held here.
Between times girls are encouraged to use it for

 

CENTERS EOR GIRLS 287

lounging. reading, listening to phonograph or
radio, or informal piano playing.

The original dining room is now a table game
room with tables and benches of various sizes for
all ages of girls. The kitchen is freshly painted
and bright with red and white checked gingham
curtains and red pots, pans and other kitchen ware.

\Vhat was the bedroom is now the handcraft
room with rough tables and benches. Under win-
dows on one side are built—in storage benches in
which are the dolls and doll furniture for the tiny
tots’ play. Along interior walls are simple built-in
cabinets for handcraft supplies. Sewing machines
and an ironing board in a closet complete this
utilitarian room which also is cheerful with paint
and inexpensive curtains.

The final room is a ten by ten foot glass-en—
closed back porch or sun room which has a round
central dining room table and chairs. This room
is used for everything and anything, dining by the
cooking class, table setting by the Hostess Club,
dramatic play by the tiny tots, rehearsals, com-
mittee meetings, overHow quiet games or hand-
craft groups, parties and so on. Although the
whole Hat probably does not exceed twenty-five
by forty feet, as many as eighty girls sometimes
attend for general activities in a single afternoon,
or for an entertainment program. For athletics,
swimming, large dancing classes and dances, the
public school facilities are used by special arrange-
ment. Thus for about $25.00 a month rent a small
girls’ center has unlimited use of homelike facili-
ties, equipped by an active lay women’s sponsor-
ing board.

Another club, in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is
making excellent use of two long narrow rooms
about twenty by seventy feet. Such facilities can
never be as homelike as a house or an apartment
but offer more floor
space, and each room can
be supervised by one
worker. At the front of
the first floor is the
lounge, and table games
section; in the middle are
the table tennis and noisy

games; and in the rear
the cement floor is cleared
for active games, races
and dancing classes. Up-
stairs, in the front, is the
library, storage room and
lavatory. In the middle

Look at your community centers. Are they ath-
letic centers only? Do the boys drive out the
girls? Do the girls have a place they can call their
own? Do they have a sense of "belonging"?

Look at the lay women of your city. Are they
actively interested in girls' workI especially in the
work of the recreation department? Are you
harnessing the tremendous torces of women's or-
ganizations to improve your program tor girls?

It you feel that your program for girls and women
needs strengthening. read this article carefully,
and give copies to women members of your rec-
reation commission. to officers of women’s clubs,
parent-teacher associations, and other women's
groups who should be helping.

is the handcraft section and the rear has a small
stage for dramatics and programs. In the cellar a
small kitchen has been made by using plywood
partitions. Hundreds of girls can be accommo—
dated in these spacious, though noisy, two rooms
and kitchen. Schools are used for basketball,
large gym and dance classes.

The Program

In many respects the girls’ center program does
not differ from the usual public recreation pro-
gram, including such things as children’s rhythms,
folk and (if necessary) tap dancing, singing and
rhythm band, storytelling, simple dramatics and
puppets, the usual handcraft and art classes and,
if possible, outdoor or indoor playground games,
gym classes and tumbling. These classes are un-
usually well conducted in most girls’ centers with
creative leaders and high standards rather than in
the usual “time-filling” way.

The two main features of a girls’ center which
are not usually found in community centers are
“drop in” activities. and the homecraft classes and
clubs.

It is important for girls from inadequate homes
to have a place in the neighborhood where they
can drop in any time on Saturday and any time
week days from 3 :30 until 8:00 P. M. (for those
under 12) and until 10:00 P. M. for older girls.
Girls have more home duties than boys so that
often the only time they have to play is from after
supper until bedtime. Many girls from inadequate
homes do not have even a bureau drawer to call
their own, ,to say nothing of a room or bed of
their own. They have no playthings, only hand-
me-down clothes, no place to play in an over-
crowded, noisy Hat, no place to study lessons, noth-
ing to do and no place to "go, too thinly clad to
stand on the streets the
way boys do and not
vigorous enough usually
to be as continuously act-
ive on cold winter even-
ings as the boys in their
street, alley and vacant
lot play. So they need
some place to drop in,
when they want to. Thus
every girls’ center should
have at least two rooms
—possibly three—avail—
able at any time the cen-
ter is open. These in-

288 CENTERS-FOR GIRLS

clude the lounge-library for reading, studying les—
sons, just resting, knitting and very quiet games;
and the noisy game room for table tennis, jacks
and other seasonal games, table, floor and wall
toss games, radio listening, phonograph playing,
piano playing, and if space permits, for general
free play, racing, chasing and noise-making. Girls
too must blow off steam and this is the place to
do ‘it. If possible there should be a third room
with an abundance of cupboards and storage
benches in which are kept dolls and doll furniture,
playing house equipment, costumes and dress-up
clothes. In this room the little girls may select
what they wish to play with and play together
quietly in make-believe play so dear to the hearts
of little girls. Some centers use this room for
serious classes and open it only on certain after-
noons for little girls playing house. In other cen—
ters this equipment is kept in the noisy game room
where the girls may play. It is so much better
when a separate quiet room is available for this
dramatic play.

Homecraft is a very important part of the girl’s
center program which should be started early,
preferably at six years of age when girls are so
enthusiastic about imitating mother and doing
things about the home. One of our most thought-
ful girls’ leaders says “PV e start too late, when a
girl has put on her war paint and gone on the
man hunt, to teach her serious homemaking skills.
She has too many counter attractions; she is in-
terested in things outside the home, not in sewing,
cooking, cleaning, child care. We waste a golden
opportunity when we give the little girl ‘busy
work’ instead of using that white—hot flame of
eagerness to learn homecrafts between six and
twelve years of age.”

Therefore, a graduated creative homecrafts
program is conducted in some girls’ centers start—
ing at six years of age in many of the groups,
using dramatic play and "playing house” as a
means of teaching scientific homemaking methods.
Some of the courses and clubs are:

Homemaking, with doll furniture at first

Interior decorating, with dollhouse at first

Child care, with large doll and doll furniture
at first, and later with little sisters and real
furniture

Home care of sick, with little sisters and real
furniture

Citizenship, Children’s Village with doll
furniture

Sewing, making own clothes, starting at six
years, and machine sewing at nine years

Cooking, starting at nine years

Hostess Club at about twelve years
Emily Post Club at about fourteen years
Charm School at about fifteen years

From these courses it is a natural step, as the
girls’ interests unfold, to clubs and to co-recrea-
tion activities. Begin with activity parties with
boys, such as roller skating or hiking, then lead
into open house game nights, social dancing in-
struction and Saturday evening dances, dramatics.
and music. In fact, there is no reason why the
girls’ center should not be co—recreational every
evening after 8 :00 o’clock, and the lounge-library
and game room could be open to boys and girls at
all times if space permits and if the boys do not
drive out the girls.

In addition, the girls’ facilities are frequently
used up to 3:30 P. M. by many women’s groups
for all kinds of meetings and parties. Handcraft;
classes, quilting clubs, mothers’ clubs, child health
lectures, baby clinics (twice weekly in some
places), and even daily play school are common.
If such extensive use is made of the facilities, ad-
ditional storage space for equipment and janitor

"service is necessary. Needless to say, the activities I

in the evenings after 8:00 P. M. are for senior high ‘
school girls and those out of school and unem-
ployed, or irregularly employed. Girls’ centers
usually do not try to reach the girls who normally
go to the Y.W.C.A. but continue to serve the
neighborhood girls who grew up in the center and l
their boy-friends.

Cooperation

If the recreation director and his commission.
are thoroughly in favor of the neighborhood girls’. 
center idea, and the recreation budget is large,
enough and flexible, then there is no reason why?
one or more girls’ centers should not be started in
existing facilities without further delay. Yet even
with such ideal conditions, which are seldom
found, the c00peration of an interested and in-
fluential group of lay women on a girls’ center:
council will do much to improve the facilities and
deepen program and make the way easier for the-
director of the center.

 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 

No recreation director need wait for a complete.
budget to start a girls’ center if he is as ingenious
as several such directors who have already started,
without any money. Here are some of the steps
to be taken in establishing a demonstration center.

- «.__. __ '-_ —— “Wu—w“..—

1

i
l

CENTERS FOR GIRLS

How to G0 at It

Study the crowded neighborhoods.
Determine in which the needs of girls are

greatest.

Check with other agencies and workers to see
that no other agency is serving these particular
girls before starting a new center.

Improve present programs and facilities to cre-
ate a girls’ center spirit, if at all possible.

If nothing is being done and much needs to be
provided, then call together a group of influential
and intelligent lay women. Present the problem to
them. Take them for a ride through the needy
area. Have case workers and policewomen talk

to them.

Let the idea of serving this neighborhood grow
in their minds. Ask for their suggestions. Present
your own ideas modestly. Don’t force an elaborate
plan on cold or disinterested group.

Get the most enthusiastic women to do some-
thing at once, such as looking at what facilities
you have to offer, searching for better space
which may be rented, visiting real estate depart-
ments of banks to see what mortgages they have
taken over, talking to wealthy old residents who
may own property in the neighborhood or know of
estates holding property. In the meantime see if
the city owns any buildings in the district or has
taken any over for non-payment of taxes.

Before taking further steps, get
the full cooperation of the recre~
ation commission and organize a
girls’ center council of those
women showing the greatest per—
sonal interest. Have this small
council prepare a plan and pre-
sent it to representatives of all
women’s organizations in the city.
One group of women ‘did this at
a tea and a month later- at a sec-
ond tea organized a coordinating
council of representatives of
thirty-three women’s organiza-
tions to “promote and protect the
interests of girls and women.” In
another council, similarly formed,
each member organization pays
annual dues according to the size
of its membership, which gives it
the privilege of having meetings
and parties in the girls’ center,
making it practically a women’s

r"'"Tw“M ‘J'E'm“' "W

 

289

club up to 3:30 P. M. as well as a girls’ center
afterward.

After finding the facilities for the first girls’
center, if the rent must be paid the council mem-
bers should find twelve individuals or organiza-
tions, each to give one month’s rent, some agency
to pay for the coal, another the light bill, another
to provide for janitor service and cleaning women.
Frequently the city through one of its depart-
ments can provide light and heat as a part of its.
regular service to its buildings and janitor service
through Home Relief or other welfare divisions.

Having found and secured the facilities, the
next step is to put them in order. In this the
recreation director usually takes the initiative, as
was done in Allentown, Pennsylvania, where the-
city electrician attended to all the wiring, the city
plumbers, painters and carpenters, even the street
departments and parks, were persuaded to co-
operate in lending men and equipment, while the-
women’s council raised money to buy the new
materials needed by the workmen.

In the meantime, every woman and interested‘.
organization is on the lookout for furnishings and
supplies of all kinds. Women with husbands who.
are leading merchants are especially valuable in
securing cooperation stores, getting salvage and
decorating materials and lowest prices on really
fine furniture which has been damaged or ex-

(Continued on page 308)

Courtesy East Orange, N. L, Board of Recreation Comm'ssionets:

"Accent on Youth"

ONSCIOUS of the
C growing realization

of the importance
of an “early start,” the
public Recreation Com-
mission of Davenport is
inaugurating a new series
of programs designed especially
for the elementary school child.
This series beginning on March
11th and continuing for four
consecutive Saturdays through
April Ist, will bring to the youngsters of the com-
munity thrilling drama, dancing, 3. sprightly oper-
etta, and beautiful symphonic music.

Unfortunately, a love of music, drama, and
dancing is not always accompanied by correspond-
ing talent, but all children may derive pleasure
from “exposure” to these arts, and this pleasure
may be enhanced by a study of their appreciation.
The vital fact to remember is that youth is the
time for study and exposure. Curiosity and talent,
when nurtured from an early age, may have a
chance to flower.

Curiosity and imagination are prominent traits
in children. \Nhen wisely guided they may be
turned toward the development of a happy child-
hood, and ultimately toward '

a more complete enjoyment

A municipal recreation department
believes that children should have
on early start in making contacts
with good music, drama and dancing

By ROBERT L. HORNEY

Superintendent of Recreation
Davenport. Iowa later?

The advanced children's group practic-
ing for the last program of the series

of adult life. Why not
give these future Mr. and
and Mrs. America’s a
real chance to come in
contact with good music,
drama, and dancing?
Isn’t it true that a good
taste, cultivated in a child’s early
years, creates a steady appetite

The Recreation Commission

of Davenport believes it will,

and so it is offering a free series of entertainment
by local talent, held at the public high school audi-
torium where pupils from the nineteen elementary
schools, ten parochial schools, and the Iowa
Soldiers’ Orphans’ Home, will be guests of the
Commission. Since the seating capacity of the
auditorium is limited to 1,200 persons, passes will
be distributed to the various schools according to
their enrollments. The administration of each in-
dividual school then may determine their distri—
bution. Local Boy Scout troops will serve as
ushers. The curtain will rise at 10:00 A. M. on
Saturday, March 11th, when the Davenport High
School orchestra, a group of fifty-three young
musicians who have already won state-wide ac-
claim, will present the initial

(Comimred on page 309)

 

290

' m—g _MH_A‘_WV P

m--m"

a. una-H-u—n'ui-n-q—u—u 0—m—

 

Boston Awaits You

Es! THIs YEAR IT’S BOSTON.
The Twenty-Fourth National Recreation
Congress will meet in Boston from October
9th to the I 3th. Again the recreation leaders of
America, men and women who have devoted their
lives to providing better play facilities for the na-
tion, will gather to discuss the great movement in
which they have pioneered.

Recreation planners from all parts of this coun—
try and from abroad will meet in historic Boston,
where they will review past progress, discuss pres—
ent problems, and build for the recreation world
of tomorrow. Yes, it is Boston, the Boston of
many memories, and the Boston of the thousand
present-day interests which will welcome the 1,500
delegates to this important nation—wide Congress.

The city that is dominated by Bunker Hill
Monument, that abounds in tablets commemorat—
ing historic events, the City of the Boston Tea
Party and of Paul Revere’s Ride, of the Old
North Church and of Faneuil Hall, will be the
host of the 1939 gathering.

Boston is a city of many
surprises, as well as many
memories. The forefathers
sleep in graveyards such as
Old Granary and Kings
Chapel, which are snuggled
at the feet of high office
buildings. Everywhere in

It has not been possible in this article to
describe all the things to see. the places
to visit. and the unique features of Bos-
ton. Mr. Douglas Payne ot the Chamber
of Commerce, 50 Federal Street' Boston'
who is chairman of the sub-committees
on publicity for the Congress. will
gladly provide leaflets and literature of
interest to those planning to attend.

There are very many
points of interest in his-
toric Boston and its en-
virons which delegates
to the Twenty-Fourth
Recreation Congress

will wish to visit. A

number of them are
enumerated in this
article and tentative
plans are outlined for
some of the tours which
are being planned.

Boston the city of today is linked with the city of
yesterday. Its memories are as old as the cow
paths that still can be traced wandering through
the down—town section and that form the pattern
for its narrow streets; and they are as varied as
the lives of the early settlers. They form a com—
posite picture of Pilgrims and Puritans, British
Red Coats and Tories, fishermen, sail—makers,
farmers, soldiers of fortune, religious leaders, and
great financiers.

We all know of modern Boston as a manu-
facturing city, but we do not realize that it has
more than 5,200 industrial plants, and over 25,000
well—established mercantile business concerns. It
is the shoe and leather center of the world and
the headquarters of cotton manufacturing, and it
is the greatest wool market in the United States.
It is the most up—to—date fish port in the world, its
production exceeded only by Grimsby, England.
Boston is one of the three great rubber manufac-
turing centers of America, and about 22% of all the
rubber products manufactured in the United States
come from here. It is surprising how many of the
standard label goods bear the Boston imprint, and
when we think of certain brands of razors, cof-
fee, teas, woolen garments, candy, not to mention
baked beans and the inevit-
able cod fish, we think of
Boston.

In the field of recreation,
Boston is eminent. It is the
home of the founder of the
playground movement in
America, Joseph Lee, who
will be honored by the Rec-

291

292

reation Congress. It is a pioneer in outdoor recrea-
tion, in children’s playgrounds, and model play
yards which have been examples for the entire
country since the beginning of the national recre—
ation movement. Its settlements and community
centers are well known.

The play movement in Boston grew, as it did in
most cities from the early stages of private philan—
thropic enterprise to public supervised recreation
programs conducted by the city.

Tours of Historic Interest

But it is historic Boston which intrigues the
visitor Upon first sight. Delegates to the Congress
in October will find that a comprehensive series
of tours has been arranged to places of great in—
terest, including park areas, health units, munici-
pal buildings, historic
spots, and privately spon-

BOSTON AWAITS YOU

where the poet wrote' his “Tales of the Wayside
Inn,” has been restored by Henry FOrd to its
original appealing simplicity.

Boston, Cambridge, Concord, and Lexington all
abound in memories of the great literary age
which has been so ably described recently by Van
Wyck Brooks in his book “The Flowering of
New England.” The visitor bent on a literary

pilgrimage will have time to see many of these
places, and to revel in memories of Emerson,

Hawthorne, the Alcotts, James Russell Lowell,
Oliver Wendell Holmes, and a host of others.

In Boston

It is not necessary to go beyond the City of
Boston itself to find places of historic interest; in
fact, it is impossible to be in Boston fOr any

length of time without
coming into intimate con-

sored recreation facilities.

Tentative plans for
these tours include a trip
to the historic shrines of
Boston and vicinity, to
Concord, with its famous
“rude bridge that arched
the flood” and to Lex—
ington, where the “em-
battled farmers” first
stood. Here the historic
Buckman Tavern, where

the Minute Men waited

The Tours Committee. one of the sub-committees
in charge of local arrangements for the Recrea-
tion Congress at Boston. announces the follow-
ing tentative program of sight-seeing trips tor
delegates: Tuesday. October IOth—tour ot the
Boston Park Area. including health units. munici-
pal buildings. beaches. Boston Housing projects.
Castle Garden. and the Arnold Arboretum. On
Friday. October l3th—tour of historical Boston
and vicinity. including Concord and Lexington.
the Wayside Inn. and the Newton playgrounds;
or an alternative tour of the Metropolitan Park
District. Spot tours will be arranged on request

to places of special interest to any group. such
as settlement houses. boys clubs. the Y.M.C.A..
the Y.W.C.A.. and the Children's Museum.

tact with such places.
The Bunker Hill Monu-
ment, a granite obelisk
221 feet high, stands on
what was once Breeds
Hill, within the lines of
the American redoubt
which was the center of
the battle of Bunker Hill
on June I7, 1776. It is
open to the public daily,
and the energetic visitor
may climb to the top

in the tap room for the

British, still stands. Here

are such mementos of the Revolution as old bul-
let moulds, powder horns, and bullet holes left in
the doorway from stray shots from the British.
Across the Lexington Green is the statue erected
in honor of the Minute Men, and beyond is the
house where the first soldier fell. At Concord the
graves of “unknown British soldiers” who died in
the early struggle between crown and colony
bring a pang for those who fell so long ago, far
away from home.

On the way to and from Concord and Lexing-
ton the tourist passes innumerable places of liter-
ary and historic interest. Cambridge, the home of
Harvard University, brings many reminders of
the early history of education, for only recently
this college celebrated its 300th anniversary as the
seat of higher learning in America. The Long—
fellow House, overlooking the Charles River, is
a literary shrine, and the Wayside Inn at Sudbury,

Beneath the monument
lie the quiet streets of
Charlestown, with old houses which have not

changed for generations.
The tower of the Old North Church. in which
the lanterns were hung as .Signals for Paul Revere,

is not as conspicuous as it once was when it g

i
l

I I
f

dominated the landscape, but it stands today in its  1

solid beauty, just as it did on that memorable
night when-the lanterns flashed—“one if by land,
two if by sea.” Not far away is Copps Hill Bury-

ing Ground, where Cotton Mather and many '

other early dignitaries are buried. Near by, in the
North End, is the Paul Revere House, built ill
1660, and purchased in I 770 by Paul Revere, who,
besides being a great citizen, was a great artisan
designer and silversmith. Samples of his work

may be seen in the Boston Museum of Fine .Arts. .

Faneuil Hall, which often disputes with Phila-
delphia’s Independence Hall the title of “The
Cradle of Liberty,” rears its classic facade in the

’l

BOSTON AWAITS YOU 293

heart of the market district, and it surprises visit—
ors to find the bustling life of trade still going on
in the stalls and over the counters of this historic
building. Above the market, the assembly hall,
which was the center of Revolutionary movements
in Boston and was used by the British officers as
a play house during the seige of Boston, remains
intact.

Boston is one city in America which retains the
insignia of British rule. Over the Old State
House the lion and the unicorn still hold sway,

' and within this classic building there is gathered
a collection of relics and antiques which the dele-
' gates to the Congress should not fail to see.
\Vhen you read in your guide book that “near by
stood the Royal Exchange Tavern, from which
the first stage coach started to New York in Sep-
tember, I772,” it is not difficult to imagine the
scene of its departure. Even today there are many
reminders of those old days, and the atmosphere
of the past still clings so hauntingly to this part
of Boston that when one passes out of the Ol‘d
" State House, where memories of the stirring days
i of history are treasured, it requires an effort, and
‘ some rubbing of the eyes to realize that the traf—
' tie on State Street and the bustle of Washington
’ Street belong to the year 1939.
:t Not far away are the old wharves along At-
lantic Avenue, still picturesque, with their ancient
‘ warehouses and with the i
t, fishing craft anchored be—

 

 

Boston's museums and parks are recognized as
outstanding in any listing of municipal assets

side them. On the way to Long W hart we find a
tablet which reads, “Here formerly stood Griffin’s
W harf at which lay moored December 16, 1773,
three British ships with cargoes of tea. To de-
feat King George’s trivial but tyrannical tax of
three pence per pound, about ninety citizens of
Boston, partly disguised as Indians, boarded the
ships, threw the cargoes, three hundred and forty-
two chests in all, into the sea and made the world
ring with the patriotic exploit of the Boston Tea
Party.”

Across the harbor in East Boston the visitor
sees the great ocean-going steamers of the present
day, with airplanes taking off and landing in the
East Boston Airport. Only by dint of imagina-
tion can he bring back to these blue waters the
sailing craft of the days of New England’s great
navigation history, when clipper ships sailed from
Boston for China and the Orient, as well as for
the ports of Liverpool and London. Reminders
of the days of the clipper ships are found in
museums and historic houses throughout New
England. But the present day preeminence of the
Port of Boston in the fishing industry is easily
discerned in the great modern fleets of refriger—
ated vessels which dock at the fish pier at the foot
of Northern Avenue, beyond Commonwealth pier.

Going back to the business section of the city,
one walks along Washington Street, the busy
shopping district, with its
department stores famed

 

294

' '.  ’-.‘T“.‘i’.“"' "."I‘2"'.‘.‘.‘.'i'.‘.'.'"f'rfi'zarn'x‘n'm'
    

.' :-:;=--=;::g;;«,s.§::-'

th rou ghout the i. i i H _   
country for their   '  ' '
modern manage-
ment system and
their great bar-
gain basements
which make the
highest type of
merchandise
available to those
of limited in-
come.

The City’s Park
System
Boston’s park §,7'*".f..“_‘
system is one of
the finest in the
world, and this is said without
boasting because it is the re—
peated Opinion of visitors from
all parts of the world who
view with delight its Public
Garden and Boston Common,
and the oasis of green throughout the city, and
who visit the vast Metropolitan Park area which
includes a series of reservations stretching over
forty-three separate municipalities so closely knit
together by drives and parkways that they form

virtually one extensive outdoor recreation area.

What is known as the Boston Metropolitan Dis—
trict is theoretically that area which lies within a
radius of ten miles from the center of the famous
gold dome of the Boston State House. This sys-
tem of area reservations will be of immense in-
terest to delegates to the Twenty-Fourth National
Recreation Congress.

The district area, which is under the super*
vision of the Metropolitan District Commission,
operates the water and sewage disposal systems
of the forty-three cities and towns which com-
prise it, which have a total population of more
than 2,000,000 people. It has developed a re-
markable park system, and its plans for the fu-
ture, as indicated on its most recent map, show
that all these cities will eventually be linked by an
ideal system of parkways utilizing modern engi*
neering methods which respect and retain the nat-
ural beauties of the landscape. Scattered about
this area are playgrounds, bathing beaches, facili—
ties for winter sports, picnic grounds, and tennis

courts, and many other facilities for enjoying the
out of doors.

 

The Hotel Statler, headquarters for
the Congress. is within a block of the
Public Garden and Boston Common.
Located near all the city's historic
shrines. it is within easy distance of
railroad stations and bus terminals.

BOSTON AWAITS YOU

It might be in-
teresting just to
glimpse a few of
the outstanding
figures given in
the 1938 report
of the Commis-
s i on, which
shows that dur-
ing the year,
193,000 persons
used the bath
houses, more
than 29,400,000
e n j o y e d t h e
beaches of the
area, the chil-
dre n ’s play-
grounds provided recreation
for 262,500 youngsters, golf
courses gave opportunity for
recreation to 52,000 adults,
nature trails were patronized
by more than 20,000 persons,
the tennis courts were used by 133,000 persons,
and the baseball diamonds gave play opportunity
to 

Among the beauty spots dedicated

5;;
3
f3
9;
Is
;3
if
we

\I'-
,~'. "an to} ‘u 'u.
. ,,  .
I
I

to the public

is the Charles River Reservation, with its lovely . --

Esplanade, the gift of Mrs. James  Storrow as
a memorial to her husband. It is modeled after
the Alsher Basin in Hamburg. Here, in summer
and fall, the river is dotted with pleasure boats
and craft of all sorts, beaches are devoted to
swimming and sports, and vistas of landscaped
parkway stretch out for miles, giving the hiker an
opportunity for long walks without hindrance or
harm from automobile traffic.

The Middlesex Fells Parkway is another nat-‘

ural reservation, with its system of woodlands and
lakes which have been compared with those of

Killarney, and its miles of driveway along the'

Mystic Valley Park of Medford. The Metropoli-
tan area also includes the new Old Colony Drive-
way with Malibu Beach, which has recently linked,”
the shore beaches in Dorchester for the pleasure".
of residents. The reservations authority extendsj
to the Lynn Shore Driveway, one of the most’
beautiful ocean front drives on the Atlantic coast,-
and takes in the Nahant Beach Parkway, which
is also along the Atlantic coast.

The Boston Park Department, of which Come. *

(Continued on page 309)

l u ORRA,” DERIVED from the

Latin word meaning
hesitation, is a game of

Italian origin calling for quick

wits and nimble lingers.

Back in the fourteenth cen—
tury, when Genoa was at war
with Pisa, Morra had its begin-
ning. When the Genoans linally
won the war and carried away
all the Pisan galleons, they
pressed the Pisans into service as the motive power.
With nothing to do but row a boat, mental de-
terioration threatened, so in the rest periods some-

' ‘one invented the business of flinging out a listful
of fingers and inviting the other fellow to match
the play. The game spread like wildfire among
friend and foe alike until today it is a popular
pastime among many.

There is plenty of excitement attached to the
game, for when a team of Morra players are
really in action lingers are flung about with

- abandon accompanied by a rising crescendo of

shouts as the players call the number.

The game consists of twenty-one points, and
the successful Morra player can keep score with
one hand while playing the game with the other.
There is one great advantage: it is not necessary
j to search about for equipment, for when the
urge to play is felt all a competitor needs is one

    

Attilio Mazzolla, local champion and ardent
follower of the game, states: “The very name
itself means delay in Italian, and it is that delay
‘_ between throwing the lingers and the hesitation
of the opponent in tossing out his digits that
’ makes the game.”

There is a definite rhythm

E

By EDWARD M. RYAN

Director of Recreation
Framingham. Massachusetts

It is the belief of Mr. Ryan that
his community was the first in the'
country to organize this ancient Ital-
ian game for league play. Is there
anyone among our readers pre-
pared to challenge this statement?

A Fourteenth Century Game -Comes to Life

The Rules

Here are the simple rules
which govern this game:

The game may be played
with two or more players. When
playing a team match, four men
constitute a team.

Twenty-one points constitute
a game.

To play the game the players
face each other, and when the
referee says “go” they simultaneously throw the
right hand forward with the lingers extended.
With the throw the players call a number. The
player calling the total fingers extended is given
one point. If neither player scores or both call
the same number, there is no score and the action
continues.

Each time a player wins a point the scorer gives
him a card. The individual, or in team play the
team, winning twenty—one cards Wins thermatch.

In team matches, play alternates between op-
posing players.

In Framingham the Park Department spon—
sored a twelve team league through the winter
months. All games were played at the Foresters’
Club House, and fifty-six individuals flung lingers
in league competition. The game proved a success
from the start. A small trophy was awarded to
the league champions who are looking forward to
an even more interesting season next year.

Speaking of ancient games, do you know that
the Dutch brought bowling to America in the
eighteenth century? That the first report of a prize
fight—1184 B.C.—was written by Homer? That

the Romans are said to have
brought football to England

 
 

' to the play, and the pace
l grows hotter as the players
. warm to the spirit of compe-
' tition. The throwing of the
‘ forearm is quick, and lingers
should be firmly outstretched
to match the number called.
It is distinctly not "‘cricket”
to sneak a thumb out from
under the palm to match the
{play of the opponent!

"A good game is one that can be played
almost anywhere. that is within the finan—
cial and mental grasp of the masses' that
fires the imagination' that challenges the
skill or intelligence of the player. that
gives him a sense of accomplishment
without ever quite letting him attain
perfection. that embodies the element
of surprise' that gives the player
something to talk about and discuss
with his friends. and that looks so ab-
sorbing when being played that onlook-
ers want to get into it themselves."

during the conquest of Cae-
sar? That the first covered
bowling alleys were built in
the twelfth century? That the

old-time punishment for a
player of cricket who turned
professional was a boycott
from all employment? That
the first golf balls ever to be
used were made of leather
which was stuffed with
feathers?

295

Three Playground Personality Stories

EHIND the playground re—
B ports we study, behind the

newspaper accounts we read
of splendid recreational activi-
ties conducted in all parts of the
country, lie the usually unwrit-
ten stories of the personal as-
pects of these achievements—
the stories of recreation workers’ own private
problems, battles and successes that are inter-
woven with the excellent programs they evolve.
Believing as I do that these personal histories of
recreation workers have possible value for others,
I’d like to rise up in meeting if I may and mention
three fine individuals—and speak of them from
the “success story” angle.

From Caretaker to Playground Director

Yesterday, I met on the street, seventy—year-old
Mr. Davidson, stepping briskly to his work as
director of a large playground. His bare, muscu-
lar arms were sun-tanned and even brown, and
his swarthy face made striking contrast to his
snowy hair.

“Good morning, Mr. Davidson,” said I, “You
grow younger every time I see you.”

“Yes,” he replied, “I believe I do. It’s my as—
sociation with the kids!”

Was this picturesque man always a playground
director? Not he! Hit by that word beginning
with “De———-” (Ever hear of it?) he heard of a
vacancy as caretaker in one of our county parks.
Now, mowing grass and taking care of forty
acres of land was not exactly in his line—he’d
been a salesman. But what of that? He needed
a job and that was that.

During the performance of his normal duties—
menial tasks they were too, by the way—he began
to take an interest in the boys who came to the
park to play. He helped them to organize their
sports, refereed games and won himself a place in
their friendship and esteem.

Was Mr. Davidson’s able volunteer work im—
mediately recognized in the form of a promotion
to the playground directorship? No, it wasn’t.
But as his interest was genuine and intense, he
continued to do a fine piece of work in helping the
boys. After several seasons I am happy to say
that he was advanced to the directorship. Today

296

By EDITH CRASTo

For every successful playground
and every worth-while community
enterpriseI someone in the back-
ground is putting in hours of
,planning and work. We present
to you three such personalities.

in spite of his late start and
roundabout approach to his
present profession, he is director
of one of the largest county
playgrounds in our system. Mr.
Davidson’s is a real story of
personal achievement for he has
familiarized himself with the
latest practices in all branches of his work. For
example, although he was not a trained carpenter
or artist he has studied the subject of handcrafts
intensively with the result that he recently put on

one of the most successful boys’ handcraft ex- A

hibits ever held in the park.

Builder of Bands and Boys

Mr. Johnson was formerly a member of a large
theatrical orchestra. Like Mr. Davidson, he
found himself jobless one day.

With time on his hands, he looked around him
and began to be interested in the boys of the
neighborhood. To see them hanging around the
drug stores and the gas stations aimlessly was a
depressing, unnecessary sight to Mr. Johnson—
when he could offer them something to enliven
their days. So he invited some boys in to his own
small, humble home with music—making as an ob-

jective. He found out quickly how boys will ,

work when a worth-while purpose is presented.
Mrs. Johnson found out, too! For her ears were
filled with the squeaking of violins, the shrill
screaming of flutes and the tooting of the saxs.

Certainly, long suffering but loyal Mrs. Johnson...
had more than one reason to be glad when the
addition of bass viols to the ensemble made it.

necessary for the group to seek larger quarters!

Mr. Johnson, looking around for a meeting place,”
bethought himself of an old unfinished parish.

house. Thither he took his boys and their instru-

ments. They found an old wood stove, and tak-.
ing turn about the boys brought in the wood to?

keep themselves warm.
The attendance and the work have grown until

HOW Mr- .thnSOn has Several units which play1 ‘

well enough to be in demand for dances all round
the countryside. Since there -is no money to buy,
music Mr. Johnson spends his days writing his

own orchestrations. But in the evenings he may '

(Continued on page 310)

' WORLD

Beginning in May
and continuing
through September,
band concerts are
given regularly at the Mirror Lake bandstand
in Coggshall Park, F itchburg, Massachusetts.
These concerts are broadcast over a public
,address system. The Memorial Building, which
i' is shown in the picture, is equipped to accom-
' modate picnic parties at all seasons of the year
|.and serves as a dressing room for skaters dur—
Iiing the winter months. The lake has a
jwidespread reputation as a goldfish center, and
llittle children with bags of bread crusts under
ltheir arms are a familiar sight in the park as
they trudge toward the lake to feed the fish.
In some instances the fish are given to resi-
dents who have out—of—door pools in their
Orardens.

One of Fitchburg’s
Beauty Spots

I

In the last few weeks
before dismissal for
summer vacations,
boys and girls in the
New York City public schools were warned
of the hazards of play and taught to watch for
elements of safety in all recreational activities.
, As part of the program, the Safety Education
tProject conducted a city—wide contest for the
best ten roller skating safety rules, and during
the week of May 29th eighty safety teachers
associated with the project gave talks to school
children throughout the city on the dangers
of roller skating in the streets or roadways.
Children in all the elementary and junior high
‘schools and in parochial schools were en-

I

(

l

A Campaign for Safe
Roller Skating

l°________
l

 

 

Photo by Joseph C. Matthews

couraged to enter the contest and to submit
their suggestions for safer roller skating.

The Playground
Athletic League of
Baltimore is helping
to reduce child fatali-
ties through automobile accidents by assigning
a traveling play leader to visit street blocks
and teach safe sidewalk games. Each leader
carries a kit of play games, and with the simple
instructions given the children are able to
continue the games under their own leader-
ship when the play leader has gone to another

block.

Baltimore’s Traveling
Play Leader

0

Nationality groups
joined young song—
sters from all parts
of Cleveland, Ohio,
in an all—nations festival which opened the
summer music season at the lake front on June
20th. The city’s Recreation Division sponsored
the event, rehearsals for which had been under
way since last winter. The festival was divided
into three episodes. The first depicted African
migration to America and gave opportunity for
the singing of Negro spirituals, work songs,
and dances. The second episode, presented by
selected nationality groups, portrayed the com-
ing to America of the many people who
brought their culture to our shores. Groups
from various countries marched down “the
path of freedom” in the costumes of their
homeland and presented folk songs and dances.
The third episode pictured the American way

297

Cleveland Holds All
Nations Festival

298 WORLD °AT PLA Y

of life which has resulted from the blending of
the contributions of other lands.

A Recreation Map for Dayton—Compiled by
the Group Work Division of the Dayton, Ohio,
Council of Social Agencies, an exceedingly
attractive illustrated map of Dayton’s recrea-
tion facilities has been issued under the cap-
tion, “Enjoy Health and Happiness at Dayton’s
Recreational Centers This Summer.” In a
column at the left of the map under the title,
“Here’s Your Hobby,” is a classified list of
major sports and park and playground activi-
ties for the summer schedule. Numbers refer
the reader to the parks and play centers listed
in another column. Here are given the actual
name of the park or play center, the street
address, and telephone number. The same
numbers serve as a guide in finding the loca-
tion on the map. The entire circular has been
worked out in an ingenious and resourceful
way that cannot fail to attract attendance.

Detroit’s Pageant of Seasons—“Pageant of
Seasons” was the theme of the demonstration
given by 1,600 Detroit, Michigan, housewives
and businessmen on May 11th. For seventeen
years these remarkable demonstrations have
been held under the auspices of the Detroit

Recreation Department. Some members of this
year’s huge cast were among the 200 who took
part in the original demonstration at Barbour
School seventeen years ago, and many more
have taken part in other demonstrations since
then. The women were all members of the
various gymnasium and dancing classes at the
city’s sixty recreation centers, Mrs. Lottie
McDermott Colligan, in charge of the event,
in describing the pageant emphasized the
sociability which characterized the demonstra-
tion. “At the all-day rehearsal at Olympia,”
she said, “many women bring their lunches
and gather in groups in the boxes or balconies
for a social visit. Together they have estab—

lished a tradition that has much in common
with Ober-Ammergau.”

After a demonstration of gymnastics in
massed formation came the pageant in four
scenes, each typifying a season.
thousand people witnessed the event.

Fourteen

A Contest in Play Writing—The Dramatic
Committee of the, Jewish People’s Institute of
Chicago, through the cooperation of Alfred M.
Stein, a member of the Committee, is offering
an award of $100 for the best original one-act
play submitted on or before December 15,
1939. Only those who are residents of Chicago
or who live within a radius of 50 miles from it
are eligible to enter the contest which is de-
signed to encourage the writing and production
of new plays and the creation of local drama
of merit. Further information may be secured
from the Secretary of the Dramatic Com-
mittee, Jewish People’s Institute, 3500 Douglas
Boulevard, Chicago.

The Huron-Clinton Parkway—A bill to pro-
vide for the incorporation of the Huron-Clinton
Metropolitan Authority, which will permit the
Michigan counties of Wayne, Washtenaw,
Livingston, Oakland, and Macomb, or certain
of such counties, to join in a metropolitan dis—

’trict for deve10ping parks and parkways and

recreation facilities, has been signed by the
Governor. The basic plan of the committee,
of which Dr. Henry S. Curtis is executive
secretary, is the creation of a 175-mile parkway
along the Huron and Clinton river valleys with
a number of branch parkways, making the park
area easily accessible to residents of the dis-
tricts. The plan provides for the eventual
creation of a mile long public bathing beach 5'
which later may be lengthened. It is believed
that this beach can be made self-"supporting.
The commissioners in charge of the project
may levy for the purposes of the Authority a
tax of not more than a quarter mill upon eac'h ’ ,
dollar of the assessed value of the prOperty of
the district.

Outdoor Dancing—The Department of Parks
of New York City is conducting a series of free
public dances throughout the summer at

various parks and playgrounds. Music is pro— .
vided by the WPA Federal Music Project. 1

All dances begin at 8:00 RM. and end at.
10:30 PM. Among the rules governing the. '
conduct of the dancers are the followingllf
Gentlemen are requested to wear jackets and
remove hats while on the dance floor. Girls are‘
not permitted to dance together, and cutting

WORLD AT PLAY 299

in is not allowed. No smoking is permitted on
the dance area.

National Music Week in Reading—There
were thirteen volunteer committees function—
ing in the National Music Week celebration
held in Reading, Pennsylvania. Music teachers
and school children took an enthusiastic part
in the celebration, and neighborhood recitals
for which parents and pupils planned all the

l details were particularly popular. In some
instances there were family celebrations in

which only the children of one family partici—
pated, calling upon their mothers and fathers

I for a biographical sketch of American com-

posers or to join them in singing folk songs.
I Other children gathered with music students

in the neighborhood and arranged evening or
afternoon programs. Social features were
added in the form of serving refreshments. In
one rural home, where the performers and the

, audience had come from surrounding farms,
games followed a lengthy program of en-
sembles of all descriptions. The material was
drawn from the district junior and senior high
schools and consisted of a chorus, glee club,
orchestra, band, string trios, quartets, and
solos. The children took great pride in making
the programs by hand. i

I

New York’s Learn-to-Swim Campaign——

. From June 5th to 24th the Department of

Parks of New York City conducted a learn-to-

‘ swim campaign during which free instruction

was given at the various outdoor pools. Ad—

mission to the city’s indoor pools is free at all

I times. Children under fourteen years of age

are admitted free to the outdoor pools every

week day, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays

_ excepted, between the hours of 10:00 A.M. and

I 12:30 P. M. Adults are not permitted in the

pools during the children’s free morning

periods. An admission fee of 20 cents is

charged for adults in the outdoor pools. There
is no extra charge for instruction.

 

Paterson’s Community Orchestra—“If the
Board of Recreation does nothing else this
year, last night’s event would have stood out
as a civic achievement,” was the comment of
a local paper in Paterson, New Jersey, in
writing of the first annual concert of the

 

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

'   Complete Line of
- ‘ Equipment for all Sports

ITH SONS, Inc.

P. GOLDS
JOHN AND FINDLAY $15., CINCINNATI, OHIO

Paterson community symphony orchestra
which the Board is sponsoring. “The com-
munity owes a vote of thanks not only for an
evening of rare good music but also for the
demonstration of Paterson’s capabilities in the
field of art.” The orchestra, made up of forty-
four musicians in Paterson and its vicinity,
made its bow on April 26th before an audience
of almost 1,000 peOple who paid an admission
fee, the proceeds being given to the city’s three
general hospitals. The selections were played
from Gluck, Haydn, Mozart, Schubert, and
Strauss. Only a small percentage of the mem-
bers of the orchestra are professional
musicians, and included in the roster are
physicians, lawyers, accountants, students, mer—
chants, a postal clerk, and a barber. Plans for
next year involve a series of three concerts,
rehearsals for which will be held during the
summer, climaxed by a repetition of this year’s
concert. A choral group will be created as a
companion organization.

Music Week in St. Paul—Bands, choral
groups, quartets, trios, and soloists combined

300 WORLD AT PLAY

   
  
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
   
 
 

  

EAGLE

FINGER
(Patented)

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 

   

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP—TO-DHTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND

line of horseshoes and accessories,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

0 Many Styles of Horseshoes

' Official Courts ' Stakes

0 Stake Holders 0 Carrying Cases
. Rule Books ' Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

in the observation of Music Week in May,
during which five major programs were pre-
sented, one in each section of the city. Among
the groups participating were the thirty-two
piece WPA band and the WPA orchestra, the
police band, the St. Paul ladies’ band, the
Schubert Club ensemble, the Swedish male
chorus, the Jubilee Singers, and others. The
presentation of three Italian folk dance groups
added color. Mrs. Lorayne Palarine, Director
of Social Recreation of the Playground Depart-

ment, was chairman of the committee in
charge.

A New Street Sign Appears in Pittsburgh——
“Anna B. Heldman has served the neighbor-

hood for the past thirty-seven years, giving

generously, faithfully, lovingly, and tirelessly
of her time, energy, and service for the benefit
of others. Not only has her personality been

reflected in the Hill district, but her influence
has been city-wide.”

So read in part the petition of Pittsburgh’s
City Council and Mayor Scully, which recently
resulted by a unanimous vote of the Council

in changing the name of Overhill Street on the
"Hill” to Heldman Street.

Miss Heldman, a nurse by profession, has
for many years been on the staff of the Irene
Kaufmann Settlement, of which Overhill Street
forms one of the boundaries. The honor paid
Miss Heldman in recognition of her many
years of service to the neighborhood and the
city at large is an honor in which all settlement
and neighborhood workers may take pride.

A Chinese Checker Tournament—Word
comes from Cincinnati, Ohio, that at the pres-
ent time Chinese checkers is probably the most
popular game for children and adults being
offered by the Public Recreation Commission.
Recently a tournament was conducted for
adults, with a ribbon for the champion and the
winner of the consolation tournament. The
participants had a most enjoyable time playing
with meh and women from various districts
of the city.

Women’s Clubs in the Recreation Program—
One of the most interesting phases of the rec-
reation service of the Playground Athletic
League is the club program for women whose
ages range from 20 to 80 years. Nineteen differ-
ent clubs, with a total membership of 516, meet
once each week in school buildings or com-
munity centers for recreational and social pur—
poses, as well as for club business. Each club
elects its own officers and operates under the
guidance of a trained leader. Some of the an-
nual events which comprise their program are
a Costume Dance, Harvest Music Festival, an
educational tour and participation in the Girls’ "
Winter Carnival. They celebrate the Christmas
Season with candlelight services at their
separate club meetings, and in the summer all
of the clubs join together for their annual trip
down the bay.

Money earned by the clubs from activities
such as card parties, oyster suppers, minstrel
shows, carnivals and club dues is used to
hnance an out of town trip each year to such
places as Atlantic City, New York, Niagara
Falls or Canada or a one-day trip to the Sky-
line Drive or Dupont Gardens. The club sea-
son closes with a merry banquet at one of ther ‘
large hotels. ’

City Forests as Investments—There are in'

l
i
a

Ethe United States,more than 1,500 community
iforests which contain about three million acres,
f-according to the Forest Service of the United
iStates Department of Agriculture. More than
'1143,000,000 trees have been planted in these
_forests. It is estimated that the eventual net
'return from properly managed forests will
irange from three dollars to five dollars an acre
j‘annually. These forest areas are owned by
’cities, counties, school districts, and other local
iunits for the production of timber crops, rec-
lreation, watershed protection and various other

i' purposes.

l Some of New York City’s Summer Events——
The New York City Department of Parks an—
'inounces a number of events for the summer
J playground season.

,l One contest of special' interest,-known as
{“Youth Versus Age in Chess and Checkers,”
lis being conducted between the winners of the
’group under sixteen years and the fifty—year
,group in chess and checker tournaments.
L‘Other events include contests in all types of
3 musical instruments; amateur singing for boys
and girls from eight to twelve years and from
'thirteen to sixteen years; whistling—solo,
novelty, and bird call imitations; magic; and
,hillbilly songs, dances and music: A contest of
tone-act plays for boys and girls from ten to
.sixteen years has been scheduled, and there
fwill be tournaments in jacks for girls under
isixteen years and in shuffleboard for men and
.‘women over eighteen years of age.

i Additional city-Wide tournaments will in-
jclude baseball, softball, punch ball, twilight
abaseball, horseshoe pitching, and paddle tennis.

 At the Lamp Club Girls’ Camp—The Los
lAngeles, California, Department of Play-
’«ground and Recreation is conducting a summer
lcamp for girls nine to sixteen years of age,
iunder the name, “The Lamp Club Girls’

3

iCamp.’ The camp, a wilderness retreat in
iGrifhth Park only half an hour from home,
provides swimming and swimming instruc-
tions, hiking, sports, camp games, nature lore,
lwoodcraft, dramatics, music, handcraft, and
hobbies. The cost for Lamp Club members is
only $4.00 a week; for all other girls, $5.00.

. Gardening and Nature Activities in Balti-
’.more——About 475 Baltimore, Maryland, child-

(

 

WORLD AT PLA Y 301

PLAYGROUND armaarus 

Built:

O Stronger
and heavier
for safety!

MITCHELL _,,:g“”:

Betterhilt Beach & Pool Equipment

includes Diving Towers. Diving Boards, Pool
Ladders, Water Slides, Cocoa Matting, etc.

Write for Free Information

Mlicnfll MFG. C0.

DEPT. RM-8 MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

ren are enrolled in the home garden project,
through which eight gardens of flowers and
vegetables have sprung up on plots set. aside
in parks throughout the city and on school and
library grounds. Many of the children have
made scrapbooks of cut-out pictures, clippings,
plants, and flowers and have learned how to
plant and care for glass gardens, dish gardens;
and window boxes in their own homes, as well
as how to arrange flowers artistically. Adults
are coming in for their share of nature lore
since opportunity is offered them to take part
in field trips through Gwynns Falls and Wy-
man Parks and the campus of Johns Hopkins
University where the wonders of trees, shrubs,
lichens, mosses, and ferns'are carefully studied
under the leadership of an experienced
botanist.

Where They Learn to Play Tennis—By a
cooperative arrangement with the Public Rec-
reation Commission, the Cincinnati, Ohio,
Times-Star is offering for the sixth consecu-
tive year weekly instruction periods in tennis
for readers sending to the Commission a cou—
pon appearing in the June 6th issue of the
Times-Star. Instructors from the staff of the
Public Recreation Commission are teaching the
groups in five weekly instruction periods at
thirty locations in all parts of the city. Boys
and girls under seventeen years of age are
asked to register for day classes. A few eve-
ning classes are conducted for adults.

Recreation for Children in Toledo’s Hous-
ing Projects—Realizing the need for recrea-
tional opportunities in Toledo’s Federal Hous-
ing Project, the Division of Recreation under-
took the planning and arranging of a full-time

302 WORLD AT PLAY

recreation program. The Whitlock Homes
project covers fifteen acres and serves 264
families. The two acre playground, fully
equipped with apparatus and with an athletic
field, is adding greatly to the program arranged
by the recreation staff. Indoor recreation is
provided in a building Which has two large

rooms for the purpose. The housing project
now under construction in East Toledo will
also be provided with recreational facilities
through the efforts of the Division of Recrea-

tion.

A Loyalty Contest—Last summer the St.
Paul, Minnesota, Recreation Department con-
ducted a loyalty contest to arouse enthusiasm
for the local playgrounds and stimulate musical
activities. Loyalty songs with words com-
posed by the children, display of colors, and
selections by orchestras and choruses were in-
cluded in the programs. Twelve playgrounds
participated with 962 participants.

Linden’s Second Annual Hobby Show—
Large numbers of people attended the second
annual hobbies and crafts exhibit held for three
days under the auspices of the Linden, New
Jersey, Recreation Commission. Approximately
three hundred exhibits were on display repre-
senting the hobbies pursued in the city.
Special programs were held each evening with
the show. On Monday night a sports night pro—
gram was presented which included demonstra-
tions in archery, table tennis, and tumbling. A
colored choral group sang Negro spirituals and
Russian folk songs. Scout night was observed
Tuesday evening, and on the third night one of
the schools presented a spring frolic.

The exhibits included the work of Italian,
Slavic, and Scotch nationality groups which
were exceptionally colorful. P.T.A., Boy
Scouts, Girl Scouts, school recreation clubs,
and a number of civic organizations cooperated
with the Commission in the exhibit.

International Congress for Workers’ Leisure
——The International Congress for Workers’
Leisure will be held in Liege, Belgium, from
September 23 to 26, 1939. The program, ar-

ranged under the sponsorship of the Interna-
tional Workers’ Bureau, will include a dis-

cussion of workers’ holidays and their cultural
aspects of art, sports, and activities for women.
A number of sightseeing trips have been ar-
ranged, and there will be musical and dramatic
events. Further information may be secured
from the General Secretary, Fernand Charlier,
rue Darchis, 33, Liege.

Recreational Developments in San Fran-
cisco—The San Francisco, California, Recrea-
tion Commission reported in December, 1938,
forty-three playground centers, twenty-seven
school playgrounds, and eight evening gymnasi-
ums. Ninety-two different activities were being
conducted, five new sites were under construction}!
and land for future playgrounds was being purJ
chased at five locations.

Toy Lending Centers in Chicago—Ten toy
lending centers are now in operation with four in
the making. Two thousand two hundred eighty-
two (2,282) new toys were completed during the
month, with 1,000 in process of construction. Not
only has this activity developed tremendous in—
terest in the communities but the fact that there I
were 3,350 visitors to the toy lending shop during '
the month is a key to the interest of people all I
over the city as well as outside of the city in fol-
lowing the pattern set by this activity.

Clubs in Lancaster—The club program for
boys and girls is the outstanding feature of the fall {1
and winter program conducted by the Recreation 
and Playground Association of Lancaster, Pa., ac- .
cording to the 1938 report. From one club in 1932
the number has grown to eight, and 1045 boys and
girls were registered in the clubs last season. The,"
School Board has been very generous in granting:
permission for the use of the three school build»;r
ings in which the clubs were operated. Throughl
the courtesy of the Welfare Board a room in the
basement of the new community building was
used two afternoons a week for a boys’ club in- ,1
terested in radio and electric construction work.

  
    
     

The Trek Back to Che-Pe-Ko-Ke l

(Continued from page 260) I

the parent-teacher associations of the city, who
dispensed with their November programs to jom
the library. The pageant was re-enacted. Talks

THE NEIVARK MUSEUM NATURE CLUB 303

jwere made. Mr. Eikenberry, Superintendent of
§Schools, presided before turning the program over
[,to the library. Lists were distributed on Parent
iEducation.

i More than 8,000 feathers were painted by a
iVVPA project being sponsored by the library, and
-more than 500 folders outlining the project and
I‘ 5,000 book scalps were made. The feathers were
Edonated by the Knox Poultry Company, and even
3 the manager paid the library a visit, being con-
!sumed with curiosity to know what was being
'done with so many feathers. Five hundred
children enrolled for the project and more than
8,000 books were read. “Recreational Programs
for Summer Camps,” by H. W. Gibson, was
’used to good advantage, together with “How the
llndians Lived” by Dearborn, as well as publica—
ttions by other well-known writers of Indian lore.

Lantern Pageants in the Making
(Continued from page 265)

1slits in the cardboard. These arms also aid in
'Nxeeping the shape of the lantern. The cut-out de—
psign occurs within an inch margin from the top
and sides, and a two-inch margin at the bottom of
:°1n 8” x 9” lantern side. After the designing, the
putting and the papering is next accomplished.
Wiring for the carrying is a matter of taking
[:hree ten-inch pieces of line wire and fastening
lehem to the lantern. Next, the apex is wound
tiround the eighteen—inch stick. The lantern is

.hen ready to be carried by the child.

What They Say About Recreation

(Continued from page 266)

llld in the necessity, in the interest of public
1ealth, morality and happiness, of providing
Ineans by which the depressing influence of these
renditions may be minimized.”

—Nathan Matthews, Jr.

-I‘...‘ Hahn—nu,

The Newark Museum Nature Club

(Continued from page 268)

ity are visited repeatedly, yet remain popular

recause of the varied character of each trip.
i)ne of the club’s standbys is a section of the
vooded Watchung Mountains that is reached
ly bus at a cost of twenty cents. Rock forma-
iions, birds, trees, flowers, shrubs, fruits, in-
lects, and amphibians have been studied in this
!

 

 

pot in the course of ten trips, and are likely

BEN PEARSON

BONE AND ARRDWS

OF EXCELLENCE

Used by leading universmes and tournament
winners throughout America, Ben Pearson
Bows and Arrows are made by master crafts-
men, archers themselves, in America's largest
plant devoted exclusively to fine quality
archery equipment manufacture.

Get New Low Price Catalogue

Send for complete free interesting catalogue
and Manual of Archery on care of equip-
ment, correct shooting form. building targets,
tournament rules, etc.

BEN PEARSON. INC.

Dept. R9

Pine Bluff. Ark.

 

to provide incentives for many trips in the
future.

Longer trips are taken several times each
year to places of outstanding interest. Among
the objectives of recent trips have been the
pine barrens of southern New Jersey to study
the region’s unusual plant life, the seashore
for its marine life and birds, the mountainous
northern counties for their rare orchids and
ferns, and the Franklin Furnace zinc mines for
their many minerals. Trips to these places
have not only given the members the pleasure
of exploring new localities, but have broad-
ened their knowledge of the state’s natural
history as well. '

Each person attending the trips provides his.
own transportation and meets the groups at
prearranged spots close to the scene of each
day’s activities. This practice naturally pre-
vents many people from attending the longer
trips, the locales of which can usually be
reached only by automobile, and requires that
the majority of the outings be accessible by
bus or train from the city. Some prominent
landmark, usually a railroad station, is desig—
nated for meeting, at a time coinciding with
the arrival of a train or bus, the schedule of
which is given in the announcement of the
trip. At this point the leader takes charge,
and the group sets out over the route that he
has chosen.

The many details that often harass the
leader of a group of from ten to twenty people,
especially when he is a stranger, have been
solved to a large extent by appointing an as-
sisting host or hostess from the club’s mem-
bership. While many leaders dominate their
groups from the beginning of the day to the

304 DUBUQUE’S BOYS" STATE ELECTION

Dubuque's Boys' State Election

HROUGH THE COOPERATION of the Department

of Recreation and the American Legion of
Dubuque, Iowa, twelve Dubuque boys are being
sent for a week’s stay at Camp Dodge, just out-
side Des Moines. Some time ago the American
Legion Post called upon Karl Grabow, a member
Of the Post and director of recreation for the city,
to help in planning for a boys’ state election which
would result in sending a number of the boys Of
Dubuque to camp. An election committee was
organized consisting of the principals of the pub-
lic and parochial schools, and Mr. Grabow. It
was decided to hold an election as a method Of
selecting the boys to go to camp. The election was
arranged to comply with Iowa state laws, and
regulation voting machines were used in the fif—
teen voting precincts. The night before the elec-
tion a large parade was held under the SUpervision
of the Department of Recreation in which girls
and boys of all the schools, the Police Depart—
ment, the City Council, and members Of the super—
vising organizations took part. Nearly three
thousand boys and girls of the high schools voted
on the following day for twelve boys out of fifty-
tWO candidates.

When the boys sent by the American Legion
Posts from the various towns assembled at Camp
Dodge they were divided into two parties, and a
second election was held at which a governor and
city Officials were elected. During the mornings
the boys were taught the fundamentals of operat-
ing government; the afternoon sessions were de—
voted to recreation activities.

end and need little help, others appreciate the
assistance of a member in making people ac-
quainted, keeping the group together during
the day, seeing that the luncheon site is not
littered with paper bags, and generally keep-
ing things running smoothly.

While the methods Of the different leaders
vary greatly, most of the trips follow a similar
pattern. The atmosphere is informal yet not
that of social outings because of the common
interest in nature study. The trips are specific
in so far as intensive study is made of related
plants and animals, but broad enough to in-
clude a wide range of apparently unrelated
activities. The collecting of frogs’ eggs or the
photographing Of bursting tree buds during a
Spring bird walk add variety and help to make

the outing interesting to those members Who
are not particularly interested.in birds.

Of the people attending the trips, some are
laymen having their first experience in field
nature study, some science teachers and stu-
dents supplementing their classroom and
laboratory educations, and some amateur
naturalists Of more or less advanced interests
in search of specimens for their collections as
well as information. By bringing together
people of many nature interests in one field
trip program to share their knowledge and
ideas, the Newark Museum Nature Club has
filled a gap in the educational and recrea—
tional life of its community, and has helped to
make nature study a popular spare-time

activity.

Music Forums
' (Continued from page 272)

Rock Council of Girl Scouts and the Division of
Recreation, Works Progress Administration, has
awakened a keen interest in these fields of com-
munity expression on the part of adults and chil-
dren. Thelnternational Festival of Folk Songs
and Dancing, on the Thanksgiving Music Calen-
dar, demonstrated to the Little Rock audiences the
colorful beauty Of authentic, native costumes for
dances gracefully and rhythmically presented by
community center and playground groups. A large
number Of sponsoring agencies contributed to the
success of this folk festival. i

Community concerts and sings in numerous .
centers Of Arkansas have, through the recrea-
tion leadership training programs, been initiated
and assisted in program planning to the end that
they have included much that is significant and,
artistic in their musical Offerings. Community
Recreation Councils in several hundred cities,
towns and villages of Arkansas have received.
consulting service from the music phase of the
Division of Recreation, Works Progress Admin-
istration in Arkansas; and, by including in their 
local lay advisory committees persons of recog-
nized musical ability and training and Of profes«
sional standing, these same recreation councils
are now experiencing that sense of satisfaction
which comes with seeing community music reach-
ing solid foundations through integration into the ;I
life of their communities as evolving, living, ever- V
changing music programs.

Also, in cooperation with the Arkansas State "
Federation Of Music Clubs, the Arkansas Federaf

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 305

i I
i'thIl of W'omen’s Clubs, Parent-Teacher Counc1ls

hand similar organizations, the Community Recre-
gation Councils are now reaching a point where
ithey are producing their own music leaders. It is
I’hoped that through folk festivals and the dis—
lcovery, direction and presentation of amateur
italent, these same communities will before long
imake more music of their own in expressing their
,own life and community aspirations. Annotations
l, of Arkansas folk lore will be used for coming folk
ifestivals in several urban sections of Arkansas,
:and interest is mounting in festival units follow-
ing the Music Forums’ discussions of that means
«(of reviving interest in the presentation and pre—
Jservation of our national and international musi—
cal heritages.

With current surveys being made by the Rec-
reation Committee of the Little Rock Council of
{Parent-Teacher Associations and the Little Rock
'| Council of Social Agencies, there comes to light
lthe apparent need of municipal financing and su—
lpervision of theacivic recreation program in Ar-
kansas, capitol city. Developments toward a cen-
ltral. park authority are under advisement by the
-City Council; meanwhile the contribution of vol-
lunteer groups and federal agencies in coordinat-
ing programs of activities and improvements and
in planning are significant.

Community organization for recreation in Lit—
‘tle Rock and Arkansas has received new impetus
through the inclusion of music in the scope of its
,program of activities. Of no small moment in the
fhistory of this movement are the local music
'forum groups.

l

i Safety on the Playground

1 (Continued from page 273)

as in charge of all the captains and is responsible
{to the play leader for the success of the clubs on
'rhe' playground.

The duties of the sergeant include keeping a
roll book with the names and addresses of mem-
)ers of the club. He is responsible for checking
1ttendance at the regular weekly meeting, for the
'esults of the weekly discussion lesson, and the
)rojects made.

At each meeting the safety lesson is discussed
1nd every member of the club is urged to take
)art in the discussion. Every member of the club
who disobeys the rules is dropped after two
ixarnings. ,

1 At the regular weekly meeting each member
{will be asked to report to‘ his captain how he has

I
v
i
l

t

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles I
l of Interest to the Recreation Worker

    

 

MAGAZINES

Child Study, May 1939

“The Home as a Democracy” 'by Raymond Gram
S‘wing

Camping World, May 1939

“I Want Democracy in My Camp” by Robert C.
Marshall

“What Shall I Pay My Counsellor Staff and What
For?”
Training Viewpoint—Ida May Born
Institutional Camp Viewpoint—A. C. Nichols, Jr.
“Summer Camp Insurance” by Norman M. Godnick

The Guardian, June 1939

“The Boy and Girl Age” by Theodore Acland
Iiarper

The National Elementary Principal, June 1939

“Meeting the New in Education” by Guy L. Quinn,
Principal, Whitesville School, Neptune, N. J.

Youth Leaders Digest, June 1939
“Shall We Play to Win ?—Or Just for Fun?”

The Womans Press, June 1939

“They Call Us a Group Work Agency” by Margaret
Williamson
“Co-Ed Recreation” by Margaret C. Harrison

Junior League, June 1939

“Democracy and Leisure” by Eduard C. Lindeman
“New Leisure-Time Problems” by Mark A. Mc-
Closkey

The Foil, May 1939

“Behind the Scenes” (Makeup) by Helen Bork
“Knowledge and Achievement Tests in Girls Basket-
ball on the Senior High School Level” by Helen
Schwartz
“What Is the Folk Festival Council?”

“Does Physical Education Develop Personality?” by
Hilda Guenther

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
June 1939

“Dance—and the Child” by Beatrice E. Richardson
“Corecreational Campus Activities” by Virginia W.
Ames

Parents’ Magazine, June 1939

“Community Plans for Summer”—A series of inter-—
esting paragraph statements about the plans various
CltIeS have made for summer.

PAM PH LETS

A Practical Bibliography of Recreational Activities

Compiled by C. 0. Jackson, Assistant Professor of
Physical Education, University of Illinois.

Wisconsin State Planning Board and Conservation Com-
mission, Bulletin No. 8, January 1939, being a Park,
Parkway and Recreational Area Plan and The [Minne-
sota State Park and Recreational Area Plan 1939

These two reports have recently been completed and
constitute two more units in the nation-wide study
which is being made of recreation facilities

306 TO SEE ll/HAT THEY CAN SEE

The Hobbyist, March 1939

Playground and Recreation Association of .Phila—
delphia, Inc., 1427 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Price 5¢
Report of the Perth Amboy Recreation Department, 1938
Perth Amboy, New Jersey

Resources in a Democracy for Enriching Personality 1938

San Francisco Jewish Community Center, San Fran—
cisco, California.

Know Your School—*Know Your Superintendent

Leaflet No. 48, United States Department of the
Interior, Ofiice of Education, Washington, D. C.

Price 5¢

Index of Research Projects, Volume II

Works Progress Administration in collaboration with
the National Resources Committee and State
Planning Agencies, Government Printing Office,
Washington, D. C. Section on Recreation, pages
49-59

Camping Policies by Dr. James E. West
Boy Scouts of America, 2 Park Avenue, New York

City

Annual Report 1938
Bureau of Recreation, Dept. of Public Works,
Scranton, Pa.

Annual Report 1938
Playground Board, Oak Park, Illinois

Annual Report 1938 ,
Board of Park Commissioners, Minneapolis,
Minnesota

Annual Report 1938
Recreation and Playground Association, Lancaster,

Pa.

Recreation Review 1938
Albany Recreation Department, Albany, California

Annual Report of the Superintendent of Recreation
1938-1939
Cedar Rapids, Iowa

Where Shall We Play?—A Report on the Outdoor Rec—

reational Needs of New Jersey
New Jersey State Planning Board, May 1938

helped in reducing accidents either on his way to
the playground or after his arrival there. All vio-
lations of the pledge and the safety rules com-
mitted either on his way to the playground or
,after arrival must be reported to the captain, who
passes the report on to the major. The major
takes the matter up with the leader, whose de-
cision is final.

Leaders should plan to have safety talks at
least once during the season. Mothers and fathers
should be invited to be present at a program
meeting.

To See What They Can See

(Continued from page 277)

leaves, mosses and butterflies may be classified
and assembled in playground museums or, when
specimens are living creatures, in homemade cages
and receptacles where their habits may be observed.

The making of large maps is a fine post-hike pr0j~
ect. These maps may be embellished with amusing-
drawings and comments such as “Here Marie fell
into the creek,” “Here Sonia thought she heard,
a bear” and “Here John picked up a grasshopper.
Surprise !” Such a map to which a large group
contributes may be quite a work of art. It may;
be drawn with crayOn on sturdy wrapping paper,
mounted on wallboard, shellacked, and hung on).
the wall as a record of one of the high spots of}
the summer. Some individual will, of course,
write up the hike for the playground paper?
Camera devotees will develop pictures taken on.
the hike and post them on the bulletin board. A
few of the older, responsible boys or girls who
know the points of interest well will perhaps be-,.
come qualified hike guides (not to supplant adult
leaders, but to act as aides on subsequent hikes),
Encourage these young experts by lending them—a
with proper recommendations—do other play-
grounds. You, in turn, may borrow from another.
playground hike guides to help you on some trips
with which you are less familiar. '

Where to Find Additional Material on
Day Hikes

Adventuring in Nature, Betty Price. National Recreation

Association. $.60
Day Camping, by Maude Dryden. National Recreation

Association. $.25

The Outdoor Book, Gladys Snyder and C. Francesi
Loomis. Camp Fire Girls, 88 Lexington Avenue,
New York City. $.50

Day Hikes, Girl Scouts, Inc., 19 West 49th Street, New‘
York City. $.20

Partners in Play, Mary J. Breen. National Recreation

Association. $1.00
Hikers’ Guide, Ben Solomon. Leisure League of‘
America, New York City. $.25

Salem Builds Swimming Pools
(Continued from page 278)

equipped with horizontal filters, bathhouses with !
basket checking systems, gas chlorinators, andl
heated shower water. The water supply comesl
from the city reservoir, thus insuring purity from I
the beginning. .4

The entire recreation program in Salem is
under the direction of a superintendent of recre-
ation, who, during the regular school year, also
serves as head of physical education for boys. 
is responsible for the organization of all recrea-w
tion activities, including swimming. The pools areJ
free to the public and are open for general use

 

 

l A SCHOOL OF RECREATION AT CAMP 307

[from I2 o’clock noon to 9 P. M. The evenings,

,from 6 to 9 P. M., have been set aside especially

'for adults but children may also come if accom-
I.panied by their parents. By special arrangement
{after-hours parties can be held without cost, in-
Iieluding life guard service. Special swimming in-
jstruction is offered free each morning.

l The personnel in charge of the activities~of the
jpools includes the general director of each recrea-
ltion area under whom a staff of life guards works.
EThere are two life guards on duty at each pool
during the heaviest part of the day. Other assist—
lants in swimming instruction, life saving, and
J bathhouse attendants have thus far been available
Iunder the W.P.A. and N .Y.A. recreation program.
Since all of the property belongs to the school
district it has been found advisable to employ one
of the engineers from one of the school buildings
ion each of the pools to take care of the boilers,
lilters, and other mechanical equipment. In this
vay there is a permanent employee who is in-
Lerested in the equipment and also one who carries
.he same responsibility summer after summer.

Although the school district has been respon-
tible f0r the capital outlay in constructing these
.bools, it is no longer a project of the school board
'tself. An excellent spirit of cooperation exists
I )etween the city and the school district. The city,
:n its annual budget, includes an appropriation to
I‘lelp carry on the swimming activities. It is vir-

ually a joint project between these two political
ub-divisions. The cost of operation is divided on
he basis of approximately 40% by the city and
.070 by the school district. Because of legal bar-
iers, it is not possible for the city to contribute
award capital outlays and ownership. Hence, the
ppropriation from the city budget goes to pro-
'ide life guards, chemicals, and other supplies in
onnection with swimming pool operation.

Although the city does not have a tax levy
ipecifically set aside for recreation purposes, there
a; a special recreation committee on the city coun-
‘il which has each year included in the city budget
n amount as indicated. Should other school dis-
' ids and cities c0py such a plan as the one used
‘1 Salem, it would add to the stability of the pro-
ram if there were included in the charter a levy
3r recreation purposes. It is also desirable that-
1e costs should be more equitably distributed be—
veen city and school district than has been the
186 in Salem thus far. Although these funds
:entually come from the same taxpayers, an equal
'stribution of the costs gives both political divi-

l

l

 
 
 
 
 
  

A School of Recreation at Camp

ESPONDING TO THE NEED for teacher prepara-
R tion in the field of recreation, Illinois State
Normal University has completed arrangements
with the East Bay Associates of Bloomington,
Illinois, for the establishment of a summer school
for recreational leaders at East Bay Camp.

Located fourteen miles north of the campus at
Normal, on the wooded slopes of Lake Bloom-
ington, East Bay provides unlimited opportuni-
ties for study and practical experiences in a wide
variety of recreational activities.

The camp is organized to comply with uni—
versity regulations governing off-campus courses.
Nine semester hours of work are offered and
credits earned are accepted by the university ex-
actly as those completed on the campus. Classes
meet for one hour a day five days a week for the
eight weeks of the summer session. Each class is
taught by regular members of the university
faculty. The head of the department of physical
education of the university staff is the camp ad-
visor and director of the summer school.

The members of the waterfront staff are all
registered Red Cross life guards under the direc—
tion of a resident Red Cross examiner.

The camp contains approximately forty build-
ings, including a modern dining hall with a seat-
ing capacity of nearly four hundred persons; a
branch of the Withers Library of Bloomington,
Illinois; an outdoor theater; craft shops; a trad—
ing post; and class rooms. Students will be housed
in newly built cabins which have been erected as
a unit apart from the regular camp for use by the
summer school.

Originally designed to meet the needs of re-

sions credit for the work without undue emphasis
in either budget on this phase of government.

The swimming pools have been an overwhelm-
ing success from the very beginning. Each of the
four years the pools have been in operation there
was an increase in the participation. Last year a
total of 145,000 individuals used the pools in a
period of 88 days, from June 7 to September 4.
The highest attendance in any single day in the ,
two pools was 5,353. This community feels that
its cash expenditure of approximately $30,000 in
capital outlay, exclusive of federal aid, and an
annual disbursement of about $8,000 in this type
of recreation is one of its best investments in be-
half of the youth and adults of the city.

308 CENTERS FOR GIRLS

ligious groups for short-term conferences, East
Bay Camp has developed into one of the leading
camping centers of Illinois. In nineteen hundred
thirty—eight, 3,676 campers from four hundred
forty-nine towns in Illinois and forty-seven towns
in other states attended conferences at the camp
for periods of from three to seven days. The re-
sponsibility for the recreational program for these
campers becomes the practical problem of students
and faculty of the summer school.

Qualified students will direct the activities for
campers in hiking, nature study, art, swimming,
handicrafts, music and the like for the various
conferences throughout the summer, as a part of
their regular training.

Wanted—a Public Relations Counsel

(Continued from page 280)
stage actions simple. The audience will be the

combined service clubs of Oak Park.

Perhaps this is all a “pipe dream.” Yet some
wise man once said that our beginning is a dream
and our end is a dream, and when we ourselves
stop dreaming we die. Well, even if we can’t
secure a public relations counsel for our staff,
can’t we all, as executives and staff, aim at being
public relations counsels ourselves in a small way?
Can’t we strive for a viewpoint and policies of our
own? An organization so wisely and humanely
built that the workers will give the executive the
dividends of loyalty and they in turn will receive
them in terms of satisfaction in a job not only
done well but received well. Couldn’t we try for
a closer, more alert, more understanding relation-
ship with our community; attend more public
meetings, more recreation conferences such as the
National Recreation Association sponsors; keep
our eye on the changing world with its new play
idioms; have more open-house days on the play-
grounds when the parents may see a composite
picture of our activities? Couldn’t we set up a
policy of having someone attend every Parent-
Teacher meeting and give a brief announcement
of the playground program and activities? I have
seen this idea work out efficiently in the case of a
library program. In short, can’t we sell our pla_v-
_ grounds on the three-fold basis of personal rela-
tions, public relations, and press relations? I hope
so. I think so.

Centers for Girls
(Continued from page 289)

changed, or has been insured, damaged, and is
now being sold by the insurance company. One

woman with a flair for interior decorating should
be in charge of this phase of the work, f0r much
can be done with little expense by one who knows
how and enters into the spirit of the thing, and
tactfully guides the others.

\

More About Leadership

The' greatest task facing the recreation director
is to secure just the right woman as director of
the center and squeeze her salary out of his bud-
get or secure it from a special grant, a gift or
some other source. Later the Community Chest
or recreation commission may take care of this
item officially but at first a demonstration must be
made. The girls’ center director should be an?
employee of‘ the recreation department, to c075
ordinate her efforts with the rest of the program,
and to be a playground director in the same neigh-
borhood in the summer if at all possible. In one;
city the director of the center is a kindergarten
teacher in the morning and directs the center five

evenings a week.

Part time leaders may come from many sources
as mentioned under leadership and are paid in
many ways. In one city, different civic organiza-
tions “adopt” a club leader for a special activity
——co‘bking, sewing, music, dramatics—giving the
recreation department her salary for one or more
sessions a week for a club year—October Ist to
May Ist. In another city a wealthy woman was.
persuaded to “endow” a certain service in which
she was vitally interested. With a live women's
council and an energetic recreation director and a
creative inspirational woman leader to direct the I
center, part time leadership should not be a great
problem, for those in charge very wisely will only
permit the center to grow as they find the right
part time leaders and can build up a morale. f

 
   
   
   
  

Encourage the girls’ center director to devote)
some time daily to visiting the district, getting tti‘
know the girls and their problems, cooperating
with case workers and other agencies, so that in
time she becomes an authority on the girl life of,
the neighborhood.

Urge the director and leading board members
to attend conferences and visit other girls’ centers:
for inspiration and help.

As soon as a girls’ center is established, thf
director should watch for potential junior leaders
and train them to help with younger girls. ‘

Toward the end of the first year, all those in-
terested in the center should analyze the problemS'
programs, and needs, and take steps to improvt

“ACCENT ON YOUTH”

l

the facilities, leadership and program another year.
' With one center established as a demonstration,
i arrange for women’s groups to visit it. Soon
(3ther sections will be demanding the same. Bring
‘zity council members and civic club leaders to see
._ :he center and try to get the expense of the girls’
:enter projects included in the regular recreation
'lepartment budget in the future.

When one center is well established and another
1eighborhood needs one, get the recreation com—
mission and the same women’s council interested.
If they are not interested, organize a new one.
Find the woman to be the next director and let
1er work under the present one as an apprentice
for awhile. Don’t shift directors. Girls’ centers
ieed the continuous leadership of capable women.

 
  
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

uAccent on Youth"
(Continued from page 290)

iumber in the series. The program will be con-
iucted in two parts: Part I will be patterned after
:he Walter Damrosch famed radio programs,
Nhen children will be introduced and taught to
*ecognize individual instruments in the orchestra.
Part II will present selections of special appeal to
:hildren including “Aubade,” from “Le Cid” by
Massenet; “In a Chinese Temple Garden,” by
f-etélby; “Funeral March of a Marionette,” by
Sounod; “T riumphal March of the Boyards,” by
Halvorsen; “The Swan,” by Saint Saens; and
‘Minuet,” by Mozart.

Interesting stories and facts about each pro-
gram are being prepared so that one week in
Itdvance of the performance every elementary
;chool tacher will receive a copy of the story to
"lelp her in acquainting her pupils with the
)rogram.

First among stories to tell children are fairy
ales. The beginning, “once upon a time,” kindles
mmediate response in a child from the earliest
‘ears through the grades. N 0 other class of stories
‘ gives such stimulus to active imagination or pre-
vents so vividly a new world with all sorts of
trange things and interesting people. What could
we more exciting then than the second of the
eries, which will be a fairy tale story presented
n dance pantomime by the Rae Studio of the
)ance?

Emerson it was who said, “The eye is the best
rf the artists.” The pleasure arising from color,
utline, motion, and grouping stimulates the senses
10 new beauties, creating a love of beauty which

i

309

is essentially taste. The development of good
taste in any child cannot be started too soon.

The third program in the junior series will
bring drama to the stage. On March 25th the
Cameo Players of the Immaculate Conception
Academy for girls will present “Princess Moss-
Rose,” written by Marguerite Merington. These
girls have been receiving excellent dramatic train-
ing since their entrance into the Academy and are
no novices before the footlights. The charm and
sincerity of their past performances have been as
appealing to parents as to young audiences.

The final program will be presented by the Rec-
reation Commission’s own Children’s Little Thea-
ter. The Little Theater, which meets every Sat-
urday morning, offers instruction in drama,
rhythm, melody band, folk dancing, and choral
work. Over a hundred boys and girls are enrolled
in the theater and the approaching operetta will
be given by forty of the advanced members. The
Children’s Theater is fortunate in being under the
direction of a woman of superior theatrical ability
and experience. The coming performance, “The
Fairy of the Witch’s Dell,” is by no means the
initial public debut of the children.

The Junior Leisure-Time Series has already
been endorsed by the sUperintendent of public
schools, the superintendent of parochial schools,
and the executive council of the Parent-Teacher
Association. Through teachers, principals, and
parent-teacher groups, in cooperation with local
press and radio stations, the programs are being
brought before the children.

We believe that the Junior Leisure-Time Series
will prove a step forward in the development of
Davenport’s recreation program.

‘.

Boston Awaits You
(Continued from page 294)

missioner William P. Long is chairman, (and he
is also chairman of the Boston Committee on ar-
rangements for the Twenty-Fourth National Rec—
reation Congress), will provide the visitor with
delightful scenes and recreation facilities right in
the heart of Boston.

Across Tremont Street, one of the most dis-
tinguished shopping streets of the city, one walks
into the Boston Common, with its great elm trees,
its famous Frog Pond, which dates back to the
time when Yankee lads protested to General
Howe of the British Army that his soldiers were
spoiling their skating. Across this thoroughfare
one may also step into the shaded paths of the

310 THREE PLAYGROUND PERSONALITY STORIES

Public Garden, one of the most noted horticul-
tural parks of the country. The Public Garden
has all the atmosphere of an old English park,
with its old shade trees, its beds of brilliant flow-
ers, its pleasure lake with swan boats plying back
and 'forth across it, and with swans and ducks
feeding from the hands of children. In winter it
is gay with skaters, and in summer the people
gather about its banks for rest and coolness.

Included in the Boston Park Department is a
playground system which last year had an attend-
ance of 8,564,566 children. It has eleven gym-
nasia, a system of baths and beaches located in
many parts of the city. It is in charge of Franklin
Park, with its Zoological garden. It maintains two
city golf courses and a system of ball parks where
Boston’s Twilight League baseball games are
played throughout the summer. Franklin Field,
with its tennis courts, is one of the outdoor at-
tractions for the young.

One of the beauty spots of Boston is the Fen-
way, which is under the maintenance of the City
Park Department. It comprises 116 acres of land
bordering on Muddy River, a historic stream
whose banks provided farm land for the early
settlers. This river is now beautifully landscaped.
It is bordered with flowering shrubs, Japanese
bamboo, rushes, marshmallow, and a wide variety
of trees which have been brought from all parts
of the world. Agood hiker can walk for seven
miles along the Fenway. Its driveways cover
more than four miles. In addition to this, the
Park Department maintains Marine Park, with
its aquarium, and supervises the Arnold Arb-
retum, one of the most famous horticultural cen-
ters in the country, which is maintained by Har-
vard University for purposes of scientific research
in arbori-culture, and as a garden for trees and
shrubs suited to the climate of Massachusetts.

Three Playground Personality Stories
(Continued from page 296)

To the orchestra boys, Mr. Johnson is univer-:
sally known as “Pop.” If you know anything
about boys and girls of today you are aware that
a nickname is often a term of endearment. So it-
is with “Pop Johnson.” And so I say three .cheers
for “Pop” and his boy orchestras! Three cheers,
for a man who has led the way to better living)
for part of our American youth! And I would be,
overlooking the point of my tale if I didn’t add:
three cheers for a man who has salvaged himself
thereby!

The Woman Who Knew How to Take a Joke

My third story—this one is only an anecdote—.
concerns one Mrs. Pitcher, a recreation super-
visor. Every recreation worker will recognize.
something familiar in the incident. It typifies
those numerous occasions when p-laygrOUnd
youngsters try out a director by some trick or bit
of juvenile impudence to see what stuff the di--
rector is made of. It’s a wise director who comes
through such a testing without losing face!

Mrs. Pitcher, of middle age, with snow white
hair, approaching the recreation center one morn-
ing was astonished to see what appeared to be a
large painting on the front of the building. To
one of the playground boys who was walking
along: beside her she cried, “My goodness! What '
have those boys been up to now?” The boy twisted
and turned in great embarrassment and finally
said defiantly, “W’ ell, you’ll find out about it any
way so I might as well tell first as last. I helped
to do it. Now have me arrested if you want to!”

“Oh, Ned!” urged Mrs. Pitcher, “what is it and
what does it say?”

“Well, it’s the picture of a woman, and it says
‘Molly Pitcher’s Hotel.’ So there!”

Mrs. Pitcher surprised Ned and relieved his-
anxiety by bursting out laughing. Later, she quite
took the wind out of the gang’s sails by saying;
“Boys, that was a bad thing to do as far as in?
juring property was concerned, but as far as I am

- concerned you might have called me many worse

names than that. Molly Pitcher was a brave his; :
toric character and I consider it a compliment to
be called after her. From now on, I’m ‘Molly’
and ‘Molly Pitcher’ to you.” I
It was the best thing that could have happened.
The boys have no less respect for ‘Molly’ and they &
have a stronger regard for her as a pal. After an '-
evening of games you may hear the boys shout,
“So long, Molly! Good night! See yer to-r

morrow !”

be found with different grOUps of boys, working
with untiring zeal. In summer his band draws
large crowds from miles around to the open-air
concerts. His boys went with him into the woods
and cut cedar posts to make a rustic band stand.
SeCUring electricity from the nearby school, they
have good lighting and what with an improvised

“mike” they certainly give concerts well worth
hearing.

    

Budge on Tennis

By J. Donald Budge. Prentice—Hall, Inc., New York.
$2.00.

THIS BOOK presents the techniques in tennis playing
which help make champions. It tells some of the
secrets behind the powerful drives, deadly smashes,
accurate strokes, and court strategy which have made
Donald Budge the great tennis player 'he is. Every stroke
is illustrated. An interesting section of the book is
devoted to a biographical sketch of Donald Budge which
,will take the reader 'behind the scenes.

Pottery Made Easy

By John Wolfe Dougherty. The Bruce Publishing Com-
pany, New York. $2.25.

MR. DOUGHERTY’S BOOK is a challenge to the widespread
idea that pottery is too diliicult and expensive a
,hobby for the amateur craftsman. It shows how artistic
pieces can be turned out in the home shop with a mini-
lmum of difficulty and with homemade equipment. In
.laddition to the instructions for making a number of
larticles, a handy chart is included which will help the
,beginner choose from a wide variety Of interesting pro—
cjects. The author also gives a brief history of the potter’s
craft, a glossary Of terms, and a list of necessary supplies,
.tools, and equipment. There are many illustrations.

1 .
l Better Badminton

By Carl H. Jackson and Lester A. Swan. A. S. Barnes
Lrand Company, New York. $1.00. -

. HIS IS THE latest addition to the Barnes Dollar Sports
Library. It is organized in progressive teaching or
learning steps, which should be very helpful to the coach
and instructor in organizing his teaching procedure.
'vlnstructions are given in the various strokes and strate-
gies, and rules and scoring methods are offered. There
are also suggestions for organizing tournaments, and a
Jibliography and glossary terms are included.

ersons Participating in Leisure-Time
Activities by Economic Status

Greater Cleveland. Prepared with the assistance of WPA
Project by Howard W. Green. Cleveland Health
3 Council, 1001 Huron Road, Cleveland, Ohio.

jTHIs STUDY IS AN attempt to suggest improvement in
' the method Of record keeping by leisure~time agencies.
in securing the material, nineteen private service organi-
:ations were analyzed to determine certain factors
'egarding the number of persons participating in the
rarious programs, the economic levels from which they
:arne, and the relation of constituencies to the various
lgencies. A study of economic levels reflects the fact
hat the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls
pater to the highest economic groups, the Y.M.C.A. and

l

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Y.W.C-A. to the second.highest, and the various settle-
ment houses to a considerably °lower economic grouping.
The major portion of the book is given over to a series
of spot maps indicating the location of the constituency
Of each of the nineteen participating organizations. As a
method of study and as a basis for careful record keep—

ing, this volume should 'be Of value to all concerned with
the administration of recreation.

The Psychology of Making Life

Interesting

By Wendell White, Ph.D. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $2.50.

BUILT AROUND the want for variety in life, this book

deals with people in life situations in general, the
prevention of unwholesome behavior, and the furthering
of mental health. In Part Three the author discusses
methods of schring the variety which makes life more ,,
interesting, and here the importance of recreation is
stressed in a number of chapters. Of special interest is
the discussion on active and passive recreation, the
pursuit Of hobbies, of freedom in leisure hours, and of

enlarging experience through companionship, poetry,
visual art, and music.

Curtains Going Up

By Albert McCleery and Carl Glick. Pitman Publishing
Corporation, New York. $4.00.

THE AMERICAN THEATER beyond Broadway—the theater

Of the community groups created by the people them—
selves in hundreds of cities and towns the country over—
this is the theater presented in a volume by two men
who have had an important part in developing these
amateur groups of players who are establishing a true
American popular dnama. The book covers nearly two
hundred representative groups. It outlines their develop-
ment, explains how they have created their facilities and
staged their productions, and tells just what they have
done and are doing. There are 150 illustrations, many of

them showing community theater structures as well as
stage sets and scenes from plays.

Motion Pictures and Radio

Report of the Regents’ Inquiry. By Elizabeth Laine.
McGraw Hill Book Co., Inc. $1.75.

ONE OF THE values of the Inquiry into the Characters
and Cost of Public Education in the State of New
York study lies in the isolation of certain phases of the
study for release to the public. Such is this volume on
Motion Pictures and Radio. It is designed primarily
for school authorities and deals with the educational
values of these means of learning, and the technical
problems of adapting them to school use. Experiments
indicate that learning with the aid of motion pictures is
increased from 20% to 27%. The estimated power of
retention is increased by 38% and the pupil’s interest is

311

O

312

greatly stimulated. The most important contribution
of the radio, says the author, is “that of introducing
history in the making.” The book’s chief value is for
teachers and school administrators.

Spring Plays and Programs; Autumn Plays
and Programs; Winter Plays and Programs.

'Edited by Florence Hale: Educational Publishing
Corporation, Darien, Conn. 75¢ each; for set 3,

$2.00.

These volumes represent collections of entertainment
material for classroom and auditorium use, including
short plays, simple pageants, reci-tations, poems, SOngS.
T'hEy will be of particular help to the teacher or leader
responsible for holiday and special day programs.
Suggested stage settings and costumes are simple; direc-
tions are clear and easy to follow.

Quartz Family Minerals.

By H. C. Dake, Frank L. Fleener and Ben Hur
Wilson. Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill Book Com-
pany, Inc., New York. $2.50.
Here is a handbook for the collector of minerals who
will find all the information he needs for the pursuit of
a- fascinating hobby. Much of the material is not avail-

able elsewhere.

The Boys’ Club.

By R. K. Atkinson. Association Press, 347 Madison
Avenue, New York. $1.75.

The author, who has had long experience in the recrea-
tion movement and in boys’ club work, brings prac—
tical knowledge and experience to this presentation of
the history, objectives, activities, and practices Of the
boys’ club movement. The book is a story of the
development of the specialized techniques for helping
boys caught in bad social and economic environments.
It traces the task of forming clubs from gangs in order
to prevent delinquency and then opening the way for

more constructive work through the discovery of the.

interests and aptitudes of these boys.

How to Make Music on the Harmonica.

By P. V. Planta. Leisure League of America, New
York. $35.

A complete manual on harmonica playing is this book—
let which gives information on the subject ranging from
a brief history Of the mouth organ to methods of secur-
ing special effects and the arrangement of a number of
selections for the harmonica. It is an exceedingly
practical booklet for the would-be harmonica player.

Manual for Christian Leaders.

gouéIg Men’s Christian Association, Dayton, Ohio.
1.0 .

This book is the report of the 1938 Christian Leaders’
Institute ‘held last December at the Y.M.C.A. in Dayton,
Ohio, under the sponsorship of the Youth Program
Council of the Y.M.C.A.,' in cooperation with a number
of local agencies interested in youth. Among the sub—
jects discussed and demonstrations given were Banquet
and Supper Programs, Directing Amateur Dramatics,
Discussion Groups, Program Planning, Recreation Lead-
ing, and Song Leading. The manual records the pro-
ceedings of the meetings in a" volume of 120 pages.

The Museum and Popular Culture.

By T. R. Adam. American Association for Adult
Education, New York. $1.00.

Museums have long played a part in providing their
communities with facilities for adult education in the arts
and sciences. It is therefore appropriate that a booklet
summarizing the contribution of museums should be
included in the series of studies in the social significance
of adult education in the United States. The book is not
an appraisal of the museum movement in all its phases,
but is designed only to be an evaluation of the specific
types of museum activities which touch on the diffusion
of learning among the adult population.

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

“Understanding Youth—His Search
for a Way of Life."

By Dr. Roy A. Burkhart. The Abingdon Press, New
I York. $1.50.

A most practical and helpful book for workers in
church recreation. Dr. Burkhart has had wide experience
In work with young people and his own church is a
laboratory in which much of his program has been
developed. The final chapter entitled “A Program to
Meet the Needs of Youth” brings together something of
Dr. Burkhart’s philosophy and much of his program for
his own c‘hurch young people.

“Which Way America? Communism,
Fascism, Democracy.”

By Lyman Bryson. The Macmillan Company, 60
Fifth Avenue, New York City. $.60.

There are many unAmerican interests now using high
powered propaganda to gain the support of various
sections of the American people. Lyman Bryson in a
very interesting and effective way has written this little
volume describing in clear terms Communism, Fascism
and Democracy in order that people may have the facts
wherewith to understand and meet the forces of partisan
propaganda. It is written in conversation Style such as
Professor Bryson uses in his radio programs.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOIIN H. FINLEY, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President,
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS.

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTIIUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y. °
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N, H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

T. SUFFERN TAILER, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. W'ADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

