5—..-__

--————-

The Recreation Leader

HAT THE recreation leader is, the qualities a recreation leader
possesses have great influence over a long period of time on

the people who come to the recreation center. It is important that
the recreation leader have as wide as possible an experience of
living, a capacity to enjOy beauty and to recognize truth. No one
can give the kind of recreation leadership which modern life requires
who has not attained a very considerable measure of self—control, of
self-discipline. It goes without saying that the position of recreation
leader is not one for a man who is thought of as “too academic.”

It is hard for a community recreation “leader to do what he ought
for his neighborhood except as he at least understands what is taking
place in the civic and political life. \Vith the rapid increase in leisure,
with the likelihood that men will be retiring at an earlier age, it is
of the greatest importance that recreation leaders understand the
opportunities for civic and political life in their neighborhoods, that
they are able to think in terms of the problems of home life, that
they are able to foresee much of the planning that needs to be done
in the various neighborhoods of our cities.

It is hard to conceive of a recreation leader, successful and happy
in his work, who does not have a philosophy of life, who has not
himself studied the needs and wants of men and gained a vision as
to the possibilities of life for various kinds of men, who has not
also thought in terms of the needs of contemporary society.

Men and women are happy only as they continue to grow. The
recreation leader must be conscious of ways in which men and women
may for themselves find growth in home, neighborhood and com—
munity activities. Recreation leaders need to become masters of the
art of living.

LESTER K. ADE
Superintendent, Department of Public Instruction

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

4——

l

‘JULY, I939 

201

Courtesy Montclair, N. 1., Model Yacht Club

“The origin of model yachling is shrouded ’rhe sporl is a very old one. and here we
in myslery. lou’r ii is as old as sailboals ‘Flhd ifs grealesl following and highesl
of large size. In England and Scolland development" (See ar’ricle on page 203.)

 

Model
Yachting

HE ORIGIN of model
Tyachting is shrouded

in mystery, but it is
as old as sailboats of large
size. The museums in all
countries show historical
evidences of model
yachts. In England and
Scotland the sport is a very old one and here we
find its greatest following and highest development.
In America, New York and San Francisco com—
pete for the honor of having organized the first
model yacht club in the early seventies. One local
historian reports that the first model yacht club
was on Long Island and the members sailed on
Gowanus Bay in 1872. Another says the first
model yacht club sailed on a lake in Prospect
Park, Brooklyn about 1880. Central Park Lake
and the lakes on Staten Island lay claim to model
sailors about the same time.
It is easy to understand that wherever there. are

sailors and water there have always been model
sailing yachts. ‘

England can show records of model yachting
that antedate America. The sport in England is
not only older but much more extensive and bet—
ter organized than in this country. England is a
nation of sailors, and when sailors retire from the
sea they naturally become model yachtsmen. This
is true even of British

 

By CHARLES E. NORTH, M. D.
New York City

Philadelphia, Detroit, St. Louis, Boston, VVash—
ington, Grand Rapids, Port Washington, Long
Island, Berkeley, California, Worcester, Massa-
chusetts, and Charleston, South Carolina, had
built good yacht ponds.

Model Yacht Ponds

The basis of this whole sport is ponds and
winds. Development is hopeless without good
water and good wind. Both are necessary. In
many localities there is good water, but if this is
located in a place so sheltered by hills or banks or
trees and shrubs or houses that wind cannot get
at it, such water is not suitable for model yacht—
ing. Many clubs have struggled in vain to develop

interest on ponds with no

 

Admirals, several of whom
are today members of
British model yacht clubs.
" There are now over three
, hundred model yacht clubs
 in England and Scotland.
There is an active club in
' Calcutta and one in Cape
7 Town, Africa.

In 1932 there were only
three ponds in the United
States that could compare
' with those abroad. In 1938,

New York, Chicago,

"Model yachting is my hobby," writes the au-
thor. "And it would be the hobby of thousands
of other business and professional men it they
knew about it. In the very few places where
such sailing is being done the model yachts
act as magnets. Business men. old and young.
surround the yachts not only to satisfy their
curiosity regarding construction and rigging.
but to ask questions as to how they can get
yachts and how they can enter the sport.
At every regatta there is plain evidence of
great latent interest in the sport which needs
only to be awakened to cause a develop-
ment in this country which would give us
more than the three or four hundred clubs
which now exist in England and Scotland."

wind.

The dimension of a
model yacht pond as ap—
proved by most authori—
ties are from eight hun—
dred to one thousand feet
in length, two hundred to
three hundred feet in
width, and from three to
six feet in depth. Wooden
starting platforms or floats
from thirty to fifty feet in
width are desirable at each

end. The shore line of the '

203

204 MODEL YA CHTING

pond should be of sand gently sloping from the
water edge both ways atlan angle that will make

the depth of water eighteen inches within six feet -

of the edge. A pathway at least six feet wide
around the entire pond is desirable to accommo-
date yachtsmen following and launching yachts.
A shore line of stone or cement or wood is ob-
jectionable because of the damage caused to yachts
striking the shore. A sloping sandy beach fur-
nishes the best of conditions for both yachts and
yachtsmen. Yachts go aground in the soft sand
without damage. They can be handled by yachts-
men in rubber boots without bending too low or
getting down on knees as has to be done with
ponds surrounded by cement and stone and wood.

Need for Properly Constructed Ponds. The only
obstacle to a large development of this sport is the
lack of proper sailing ponds. The maps of the
city parks all over the United States show a sur-
plus of ponds. There are ponds enough so far as
numbers go. Practically all plans for parks new
and old include ponds either for decorative fea-
tures, for boating, for skating, and in a few cases
for swimming. Many of them are for the accom-
modation of ducks. There are several thousand
ponds in city parks, but out of all these at the
present time there are scarcely one dozen really
fit for a model yacht regatta. The defects are in
their dimensions, or their shape, or their shore
line, or in trees, shrubbery, hills, or houses which
shut off the wind.

It is urgently hoped that park commissions, in
making plans for new developments, will include
facilities for model yachting. Model yacht ponds
cost no more than other ponds. In some cases
they cost less because of their simplicity of con-
struction. In landscaping, in place of a fringe of
trees or shrubs which block off the wind, the pond

can have low sloping banks suitable for rock gar- _

dens or flower beds. There is no decorative fea-
ture to a park equal to a fleet of model yachts with
their sails of white and of many bright colors.

It is no argument to point out the comparative
spaces required for other recreations such as base-
ball, football, and tennis. All model yachtsmen
ask is the opportunity to make use of the water.
They do not offer model yachting as a substitute
for other sports. The space required is the space

now occupied or to be occupied by the ponds
which park commissions maintain.

In the case of plans for new parks ponds can
be planned so that they will be correctly designed

at the outset. In the case of old parks there are
many ponds which at comparatively small expense
can be remodelled. Shore lines can be made
straight, sand beaches can be filled in, nearby trees
and shrubs can be removed. If all of these things
cannot be done at once enough can be done to
furnish fairly good facilities for each city.

Boston has the most expensive and in some ree
spects the best yacht pond in the United States,
Its pool is a part of the costly development of the
esplanade on the bank of the Charles River. The
city is now building a first class club house where
the yachts of the Boston Model Yacht Club can

be kept and the yachtsmen can have club house
facilities.

Port Washington, Long Island, has an ideal
pond built several years ago. Because of this it“
has one of the strongest clubs of Class A boats
and stages many important regattas. A beautiful
pond has been built by the Park Commission at
Hempstead, Long Island, where one of the largest
clubs of M Class boats has been developed. The
Lincoln Pool at \Nashington is the home of a
model yacht club, but while the pond and sur-
rounding park are beautiful, the club finds sailing
conditions often unfavorable because trees and
shrubs shut off the wind. Detroit, Chicago, St.
Louis, and San Francisco have been supplied with
first class ponds by their Park Commissions and
have thriving clubs. Detroit has a very fine pond
and both men’s and women’s clubs.

One of the most thickly populated areas in the
United States is the North Eastern part of New
Jersey, which is part of the metropolitan district
near New York. Paterson, Newark, Elizabeth,
Jersey City, and a score of suburbs in Union
County, Hudson County, Essex County, and Pas-I
saic County have a population of over 2,000,000.
Here are scores of lakes and ponds, many of them
built by park commissions. Yet there is not a
single one of these which furnishes proper con-
ditions for model yachting. The large resources
of these park commissions and the numerous fine,
parks show that the cost of ponds is not an
obstacle.

The demand for model yachting is latent, and
cannot show itself before the pond is built. The
pond must come first. The response is immediate
wherever good ponds have been built. A model
yacht pond always creates a model yacht club. The
future of this sport depends entirely on the action
of park commissions. It can become as important

‘ MODEL YACHTING 205

i
' a sport in America as it is in England and Scot-

ilalid. If the park commissions will furnish the
v ponds the model yacht clubs will be immediately
icreated. Cooperation between organized recrea-
3‘tion and park commissions can easily make a
lmaj or sport of model yachting.

The Boats

' Class A Boats. The A Class are the largest size
boats used by model yachtsmen. They weigh
from forty to sixty-five pounds and are from six
to seven feet in length overall. The masts are
tseven feet in height and the lead fin keels have a
ldepth of from eleven to twelve and a half inches
‘below the water line. These are heavy and pow-
lerful boats for models. They have all the features
of the largest racing yachts. For designers and
builders this class of boats is of the most interest
because they must come within the, limits of rules
very similar to rules required for the large racing
yachts. These limits are indicated by mathema-
.ytical formula too complex for popular under-
»standing, but the limits restrict the length of wa-
'terlines, weights, sail areas, and other features.
These limits do not prevent wide variations in
size and in design, but prevent any excesses by
filnposing penalties.

To the keenest students of yacht design and of
'sailing the A class is the most interesting class.
The most modern theories of naval architecture
:an be successfully tested more quickly and more
ften in these models than in the larger boats.
The newest theory of design which makes a boat
[self—sailing has been applied to many of the newer
:zachts. Because of their size and the serious study
required for their design,
.zhis class appeals only to
.1 small number of model

 

 

  
   
  
   
  
 

rachtsmen. The cost of
_‘l’1€ materials and labor
"'equired in building a
nodel of the A Class is
:stimated to be at least
.ive hundred dollars. But
Jvhile the yachtsmen in
his A Class are small in
.lumbers, they have for
fears been the leaders in
he organization and de-
elopment of the sport.
t is their work that has
levated the game above
‘ e level of child’s play

"For whom has model yachting a special appeal?
! First—for that man who. loving the sea and
ships. yachts and yacht racing. cannot afford a
full-sized yacht of his own. Second—for the
yachtsman who is also artist or engineer. to try
out his ideas of form at minimum expense. or.
who. loving to fashion beautiful things with
tools. seeks to satisfy this craving through his
favorite sport. Third—for the very young sailor.
or very old. unfit to go to sea. And fourth—
for those students or instructors at manual train-
ing and engineering schools whose desires to
give practical expression to their acquired knowl-
edge holds this special form. Last—but by no
means least—for the many proficient model
yachtsmen from among the interested bystand-
ers who have fallen victims to this fascinating
game."—E. L. Cheney in the I938 Year Book of
the Model Yacht Racing Association of America.

and made designing and building matters of scien-
tific interest.

Class M Boats. The M Class is comparatively
new. It was originated by Mr. Roy Clough of
Marblehead, Massachusetts, and the M stands for
Marblehead. It is also called “the 50 - 800 class.”
This is because of the simple rule that all yachts
must be fifty inches in length overall and cannot
carry more than eight hundred square inches of
sail. There is no mathematical formula setting
limits to any other features of these yachts.

The M Class boats can be of any depth and any
shape. Their weight is not limited but the average
is from twelve to twenty pounds. There are some
outstanding advantages offered to the public by
this class of model yacht. They present no serious
difficulties in design. Anyone with shop facilities
can build a boat of this length after any design
that suits his fancy. The size and weight of such
a boat makes it easy to carry in an automobile.
The time required to build a boat of this class is
much less than the time necessary for building a
boat of the A Class. The cost of M boats in ma-
terials and labor is about $50. For all these rea-
sons the M Class. model yacht makes its appeal to
a much larger number of persons than the A
Class. Since the introduction of the M Class at
Marblehead the growth of this class has been re-
markable. In eight years nearly one thousand
boats have been built.

The simplicity and comparatively low cost and
the convenient size of class M yachts makes them
attractive to a much larger number of yachtsmen
than the class A boats. Full credit must be given
to the originator of the M Class for the great
increase which has taken
place in the number of
clubs and the number of
yachtsmen in recent
years. The influence of
the M Class on this in-
creasing interest still con-
tinues as is shown by the
growth in numbers from
year to year.

Refinements. Building
has progressed to a point
where there is much re-
hnement. White cotton
sails have now given
place to sails of oiled silk
in many bright colors.
Wooden masts and spars

206 MODEL YACHTING

have been succeeded by brightly polished stainless
steel. Clumsy brass fittings have been succeeded
by chromium plated fittings of beautiful design
made by specialists as skillful as jewelers. In
woodwork, metal work, and sails there is no finer
workmanship on display than many of the model
yachts of today. They represent arts and crafts
at their best.

Sailing

Each yacht requires two sailors. One is the
skipper or captain and the other the crew or mate.
Each of the two sailors handles the boat, one on
one side of the pond, the other presiding over
the opposite side of the pond. If there are ten
boats in a regatta there are twenty sailors.

There is something “uncanny” about the‘ be-
havior of a model sailing yacht. The rigging is
designed to make the wind move the sails and the
sails move the rudder. By the use of springs or
elastics the rudder is kept from moving out of a
straight position until it is pulled to the right or
left by the string (sheet) which attaches it to the
booms of the mast and jib. When the wind blows
the sails hard enough to turn the boat off its
course, the sails turn the rudder and the rudder
steers the boat to keep it on its course. An ad—
j ustment can be made by the skipper who knows
his boat so that the turning movement (moment)
created by the sails is exactly counter—balanced by
the turning movement (moment) created by the
rudder. To see a well designed boat struggle in a
strong wind to keep on a straight course is a great
thrill to a model yachtsman. To him the yacht is
a living creature. If it has been designed and built
by the skipper it is his own child.

Self-Sailing. Self-sailing to the majority of
model (yachtsmen means the control of the direc—
tionof the yacht by adjustments of the steering
gear and the sails. Both of them can be made to
change the direction of the course. On the other
hand, to the serious students of designing self—
sailing means much more than this. Good design-
ers know that the shape of the hull itself has a
big influence on the direction a yacht will take
when it heels over. Since much sailing is done
with yachts in a partly heeled position, it is obvi-
ously of great advantage to have a hull designed so
that the boat will run in a straight line at any
angle of heel. Admiral Turner of the British
Navy who is the most successful of all model
yacht designers has added greatly to the interest
of the sport by introducing principles of design

which, if followed, guarantee that a yacht will be
self—sailing. This means that she will hold a
straight course at any angle of heel when sails and
rudder are properly set. In this feature model
yachtsmen are a step in advance of the designers.
of big boats. If this same principle were used on
big boats they would also be “self-sailors” and the;
rudder would not be hghting against the sails and‘
the hull. The boat could be steered with the lit-

tle finger.

Model Yachting an Ideal Hobby for
Business Men

In cold or rainy weather there is endless work
to be done on the drawing board with new de—
signs, or in the shop with repairs to fittings, rig-
ging, sails, or the building of new boats requiring
metal work and woodwork. The majority of
model yachtsmen are equipped with shops in their
homes where they spend leisure hours in occupa-
tion which is a complete diversion from all other
business. On racing days the sport is out of doors.
The exertion required is much less violent than that.
of golf or tennis and yet calls for considerable
walking, running, and bending. In a racing day
on a pond one thousand feet long each heat to
leeward and windward the skipper travels two
thousand feet. If he races six other boats in a
regatta he has walked twelve thousand feet and
since there are many irregular steps he has travel--
ed two miles and a half and been outdoors from:
four to six hours. Such an amount of exercise is
well suited to the condition of the average busi-
ness man.

Other Candidates for the Sport

High school boys who work in high school;
shops are all embryo model yachtsmen. The draw-i
ing boards are just the place for drawing yachtl
designs. The metal shops have all the equipment!
for making all the metal and casting the lead keels.
The woodworking sh0ps are the right place for
making the wooden keels, the ribs, the planking,..
and the masts and spars. The paint shops furnish-s
all the supplies for finishing the yacht with coats.

'of varnish or paint. All boys and girls and men

and women who like to work with their hands onr‘
drawing boards and in metal shops, and in wood:
shops, would find the building of model yachts of
great interest. The existence of suitable sailing'
water in their neighborhood is a sure method of:
arousing their interest. ‘

MODEL YA CHTING 207

Public Interest

The fact that most automobile driving on holi—
days is aimless is shown by the speed with which
a large gallery of motorists c011ects when model
vachtsmen are sailing. The sport is attractive
i0 all classes of spectators not only because
sailing yachts are good to look at but because
people like to watch racing. With a good wind
competition is keen and exciting enough for any
sportsman. It is common for spectators to leave
their cars and crowd the shore line of ponds to
see the finishes of close contests.

W'omen, as well as men, are interested in the
sport. There is a thriving women’s model yacht
club in Detroit. In the eastern states girls are
acting as very efficient crews for the skippers of
several clubs. “7 omen make most of the sails for
model yachts. They preside at the lunch parties,
always a feature of regatta days. They help keep
the score books of the races and furnish much
expert advice to the skipper.

Organizations
The Model Yacht Racing Association of

.  .3? 

‘19  A.
. f I
J ,‘ I" j.

'.

 

America was organized in New York City, July
19th, 1921. Total membership of club sixty-eight,
(other clubs—twenty). Model yacht clubs having
a roster or not less than ten members are eligible
for membership. Annual dues of clubs $10.
Eugene L. Cheney, President, Box 582, \‘Vinter
Park, Florida; Charles H. Farley, Secretary, 87
Quincy Street, Medford, Massachusetts.

There are four divisions, Eastern, Mid-west-
ern, Pacific and Canadian. The number of clubs
in each division are: twenty-seven, Eastern Di-
vision; fourteen, Mid-western Division; seven,
Paciiic Division; and nine, Canadian Division.
Each division has its own officers and its own
regattas. There are national championship races
by winners from each division. .

In regattas all yachts start from scratch. They
sail in pairs—once to windward and once to lee-
ward. Each yacht meets each other yacht in turn.
The points for the winner are—a windward leg
three points and a leeward leg two points.

In the membership clubs there are 739 Marble-

(Cmitinm’d on. page 246)

 

..   9 ,I  r 
Photo by Irs’iv C. Lore

 

Model Boat Sailing in New York City's Parks

HE SAILING of model and
miniature boats still capti-
vates the interest of many
children and adults. Not only
do recreation executives make
provision for this activity in their recreation pro-
gram, but commercial organizations, department
stores and sporting goods companies, keenly alive
to business opportunities, have manufactured com-
ponent parts of models of large ocean liners and
famous yachts for assembly by both enthusiasts.
In New York City there are located 200 models
ranging from twelve to fifty inches at the Model
Boat House located at the peninsula of the large
lake, Prospect Park, Brooklyn. The opportunity
to engage in this type of leisure-time activity de-

208

By JAMES V. MULHOLLAND

Director of Recreation
Department of Parks

New York City

pends to a large extent upon
the facilities available for the
models constructed.

The sailing of model boats
is an activity in which the child
of parents who can afford to purchase boats rubs
shoulders with the child who makes his or her
own boat. we have found in New York City
that girls are also interested in this form of rec-
reational activity. Quite often, the homemade
boat has been victorious over the entries of the
children possessing more expensive and elaborate
craft. A special division for homemade boats is
included in the program of events to encomage
this particular hobby. The owner of a homemade

(Confirmed on page 247)

 

IVide World Photo

t

 

The Recreational Values of Water

HE NATION’S water re—
sources constitute a her-

itage of every Ameri-
can citizen, and part of that
heritage is the recreational
value of water along our
seashores, rivers, and lakes.
“e in the recreation field
feel that the recreational
value of water has been
largely ignored in the past
and that because it is so
vital and so essential it
should not be neglected in
the future.
Provision for recreational
use in the planning of water
developments produces

‘ slight, if any, interference

l with transportation, industry, or other such

 

projects. It is not necessary to give over our
rivers, harbors, streams, canals, lake shores,

l and seashores solely to commercial enterprise.

5
l
l
l

' There are miles and miles of shore line that

can be made attractive and very useful for rec-
reation, and I feel that those handling the plan-
ning of seashore, river, and harbor develop-
ments should consult with those trained in rec-
reational planning and make provision for
swimming, for boating (all the way from canoe-
ing to yachting), and for fishing for pleasure as
well as for commercial purposes. I can assure
you that it pays also not to overlook the scenic
aspect of water development projects. Often it
is less costly, and very seldom any more ex-
pensive, to develop our shore lines with an eye

‘ to beauty and recreational use than to develop
~ them without regard to those particular phases

of planning. \

There are, in fact, times when recreational
use is such an important aspect of water de—
velopment projects that it becomes a serious
factor in the economic justification of the un-
dertaking. So important was the recreational
aspect of the Boulder Dam project that man-
agement of the whole vast Lake Mead area for
recreational purposes was assigned to the Na-
tional Park Service. In the case of the pro-
posed Ohio Valley flood control project, in—

By CONRAD L. WIRTH

Supervisor of Recreation and Land Planning
National Park Service

We are presenting a few extracts from an
address given by Mr. Wirth at the meeting
of the American Shore and Beach Preserva-
tion Association held in Washington, D. C..
January llI I939. Mr. Wirth is a director
of the Association. representing the Dis-
trict of Columbia. Much of the discussion
at the meeting was concerned with the en-
gineering and legislative problems of beach
authorities. though most of the speakers
frequently mentioned the recreational value
of beaches as the dominant factor which
makes them so valuable. and the
reason why they must be protected from
erosion and made available for public use.

volving the construction
of some eighty-nine dams,
multiple use for recreation
offers much greater justi-
lication of the cost than
the flood control factor
alone. Floods of disas-
trous proportions in the
Ohio Valley are relatively
infrequent. At present only
fourteen of the proposed
eighty-nine dams are con—
sidered economically jus-
tihed for flood control
purposes. Although the
National Park Service has
made no specific recom-
mendations concerning
this proposed project, we
do point to the additional economic justifica-
tion which provision for recreational use in the
planning would offer. The Service is at present
concentrating with the Army on problems of
recreational development in this area, and it is
expected that definite conclusions will soon be
reached.

Our studies of the recreational use of parks
show that water is a leading attraction where
it exists, and that where it does not exist it
nevertheless stands well up on the list of pref-
erences of park users. A park use study was
undertaken last summer of 292 state and local
park and recreation areas throughout the
United States by National Park Service, Civil—
ian Conservation Corps, Works Progress Ad-
ministration, state and local personnel, in con—
nection with the Park, Parkway and Recrea-
tional-Area Study. The results of this study,
Which will be valuable in determining the ade-
quacy of present facilities and the need for ad-
ditional provisions, are now being tabulated
and analyzed, and it is expected the informa-
tion will be published at a later date.

A similar study was made in the summer of
1937 on eighty-six selected areas in the eastern
and southeastern states, which revealed that
scenic resources or exceptional opportunity for
swimming appear to be necessary to draw any
appreciable patronage from beyond a fifty

209

prime

210 THE RECREATIONAL VALUES OF WATER

mile radius of a park. Another item revealed in
this survey which may interest you was that
less than fifty per cent of bathers at park
beaches use bathhouse dressing facilities. It
was shown that in general the activities of
visitors to state park areas rank in the follow-
ing order: scenic use, picnicking, swimming,
hiking, boating, sports, camping, horseback
riding, fishing, and nature study. These state-
ments, while illuminating, cannot be consid-
ered conclusive since they are based upon in-
complete data taken over a relatively short
period of time.

I am happy to be able to report that from
our observations there appears to be a quick—
ening of interest of late in the recreational
value of water, and that several new projects
are under way both by the Federal government
and the state governments for the preservation
and development for recreation of several
valuable coast and inland water beach and
shore areas.

Millions of dollars are now being spent by
the Federal government in
cooperation with state and
local authorities on flood
control, water conservation,
and power projects. In con-

 

More and more communities are mak-
ing provision for swimming. Caze-
novia Pool in Buffalo. New ‘York, is one
of a number provided by that city.

nection with the development of these areas
the planning for recreational use is receiving
increasing recognition, especially in the more
arid sections of the country where water is at
a premium. The National Park Service has
been requested to advise on the recreational
planning and development for a number of.
these projects and in every case has endeavored,
to correlate proposed developments with the state
plan which is being developed under the Park,
Parkway and Recreational—Area Study. .1
With those responsible for planning park and
recreational facilities and programs, water.
must be kept in mind always as of paramount
importance. With those responsible for water-
way developments of any nature, the recrea-
tional value of water should be kept in mind
for the producing of plans which will provide
for the fullest use of this invaluable resource.

“Half the lure of sailing is adventure. Divide-
the rest between the two other universal human
qualities—the desire for freedom and the urge to
create—and you have that un-
shakable architecture that is
often puzzling to laymen: a
sailor's love of sailing.”

——.S'amuel Carter.

A Swimming Pool as a Recreation Center

 

Swimming Pool in North Sacra-

mento, California, was opened in the early
I summer of 1934. Designed under official A.A.U.
 regulations, the pool is 120’ by 50’ with a depth
lrunning from 3% to 9 feet. The pool contains
tabout 300,000 gallons of water sterilized by the
' chlorine ammonia process.

The pool was completely paid for at the com-
_' pletion of the 1936 season. The proceeds prior to
1937 were used for maintaining the pool as well
as paying off the indebtedness on it. The pool was
constructed with the cooperation of the County
,3 Road Construction Fund, the'Civil Works Ad—
' ministration, the State Emergency Relief Fund,
. and the National Youth Administration. Thus the
cost to the student body and the district was very
slight, consisting chiefly of the cost of filtering
and locker room housing equipment.

An interesting feature of the administration of
the pool is that at the completion of the second
semester of the school year in June it is turned
over to the Student Body
Association which manages
the pool for the benefit of
the student body during the
summer months. The Grant
Union High School, with
an enrollment of about 1,600 during
pupils, is one of the few

I
'0 THE GRANT Union High School

0

 

By J. R. HORAK

The North Sacramento High School is the
proud possessor of a swimming pool which
combines with aquatic sports many other
recreational features' including organ con-
certs. lt is also unique in the fact that
months it is man-

aged by the Student Body Association.

the summer

high schools is the country which does
not charge dues such as student body
fees. Consequently the only means of revenue for
the student body are the proceeds from charges at
football games, basketball games, and other sports,
and student card parties and dances. One of the
chief sources of revenue for the student body is
the money received from swimming pool charges.
Adults pay a fee of twenty—live cents which in-
cludes the suit and towel and also a large bath
towel used for sun baths. Children pay fifteen
cents for suit and towel. The pool is open from
10:00 A. M. to 10:00 P. M. throughout the sum—
mer. Free lessons are given in the mornings to
all patrons desiring them.

Swimming Plus!

For those who enjoy other forms of recrea—
tion with their swimming there are facilities
around the pool for table tennis, horseshoe courts,
tennis, badminton, and softball games. These
games are available to the public without charge
from the time the pool is
opened in the morning until
it is closed at night, and the
various game courts are
lighted in the evening. There
is no charge for spectators
who may come in at any
time to enjoy the cool re-

211

212 A SWIMMING POOL -45 A RECREATION CENTER

freshing atmosphere surrounding the pool. These
spectators are permitted to use the picnic tables

and chairs at no charge whatever.
Other recreational facilities include an annual

water carnival with clowns, water stunts, water
wrestling on a floating ring in the middle of the
pool. diving and swimming exhibitions, swimming
meets, and many other features.

Each day during the summer there are concerts
on our outdoor electric Hammond organ. At the
present time we are installing in our new cafeteria
which will open onto the pool a beautiful pipe
organ which will be played throughout the sum-
mer during the day and evening.

Another unique feature scheduled in the rec-
reation program at the pool are the radio
broadcasts given direct from the pool in many
different forms. One outstanding broadcast of
last season was an under—water broadcast ac-
complished through the means of a diving
helmet and numerous microphones which the
announcer took down to
the bottom of the pool.

The public. without chargeI may use the game
facilitiesI and the picnic tables and chairs

Regulations

In our locker rooms we use a hanger basket
system which is manufactured by the Ameri-
can Wire and Form Company. This system
has been very satisfactory, and it affords a very
clean and neat locker room set-up. We have
from twenty to thirty employees on duty on a
busy day, many of them students who have
attended or are attending the high school and
are working their way through high school or
college. We have on busy days from three tg.
four certified Red Cross life guards.

We maintain very strict regulations in re-
gard to the use of the pool by bathers with any
type of disease or skin irritation, and we are
careful to suppress any rowdyism and unneces-
sary roughness. We have made very strict
rules regarding the" use of soap and warn'
water in the nude in shower rooms. Footbaths
are provided which the patrons using the pool
must go through before entering the water o1
returning to the locker
rooms.

 

Calling All Landlubbersl

ROM 'I‘IIE GLEEFL‘L boy who sails a chip boat
down the gutter after a heavy rain to the world
traveler who thrills to see his ship plow from
the sullen green of the North Atlantic into the
‘ Gulf Stream’s blue, the moving waters of the
‘ earth lure us all.
The operations of a clipper ship are romantic
. mysteries to a landlubber. Even the passenger on
i a ferryboat, bewildered by bells and whistles and
‘Illen busy at coils of rope, dimly understands that
1 he is at the threshold of a strange, exciting new
world.
i It’s easy to step across that threshold. For any
' one who learns the language of the sea and under-
stands its etiquette, a ferry ride becomes a fas—
acinating expedition and a vacation cruise can never
be dull no matter how unpretentious the ship.
What is the language of the sea—of “ships that
:pass in the night and speak to each other in pass-
'ing"? In darkness they may speak silently. Every
— eagoing vessel carries a red light on its left or
:port side and a green light on its right or star-
tboard side. The arrangement of white lights can
-tell you the kind and size of boat, the direction in
- ‘which it is going and whether or not it is carrying
‘51 tow. The long strings of barges that plod up
and down our rivers in the wake of bustling tugs

  
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
  

 

“Paul Parker Photo"

Even though your craft may
be iust a simple model sail-
boat you'll want to know the
language oi the sea and to
understand its etiquette

By

OLIVE MCCORMICK

Mariner Adviser
Girl Scouts. Inc.

 

are clearly marked in the dark for the water-wise
observer. Each barge carries red and green run-
ning lights and a white light on the stern (with
the exception of the last barge which carries two
white lights on her stern arranged horizontally
five feet apart, four feet above her deck house,
and showing all around the horizon).

Signals and Their Meaning

The "rules of the road" will guide the vessels
in passing without the need of giving signals. A
boat (not a sailboat) approaching from the right,
unless she is more than two points abaft the beam
(which means well behind the middle of your
boat) has the right of way. \Vatch, next time you
are aboard a boat, and see how this works out.

Whistle signals at sea are much more accurate
than the honk of an automobile horn on land.
Listen to what the navigator says: One blast
means, “I am going to starboard.” Two blasts
mean, “I am going to port.” Three mean, “I am
backing," and four mean “Danger.”

Bell signals from the bridge direct the engine
room. When the engine is stopped, one bell means
“Ahead slow.” When running ahead slow, a jin-
gle means “Full speed ahead.” If you are running
full speed ahead, one bell means, “Slow down,”

213

214 CALLING ALL LANDLUBBERS!

and once you are running slowly, another bell
means, “Stop.” There is a beautiful economy
about the signals of the sea!

The road signs and silent policemen of the sea
are the buoys that mark the channel. The law of
the sea is courtesy and no seaman disregards the
warning of the markers. A mm buoy (red, with
an even number painted in black) says: “Leave
me to port when you are going out of the harbor.”
A can buoy (black with odd numbers) says:
“Leave me to starboard going out.” Buoys with
vertical stripes say: “Come close; we mark the
center of the channel.” White horizontal stripes
say, “Stay away; we are covering a wreck.” B e”
or whistling bUOys may mark the entrance to the
harbor or other important locations. They are
often lighted.

“Storm warnings are flying from Boston to
Hatteras.” \Vould you recognize one if you saw
it? The cautious owner of a small sailboat will
probably take you back to shore if he sees a red
pennant flying from the mast at the yacht club or
the Coast Guard station. The pennant is the small
craft warning and it has told him that a fairly
strong wind is expected.

The storm signal is a square red flag with a
square back center. Flown in combination with
the red pennant or a white one, it tells the sea-
farer not only that a wind is coming, but from
what direction. At night storm signals are given
by red and white lanterns.

And the dread hurricane warnings? Two storm
flags, one above the other, or three lanterns, red,
white, red. Hurricane, or whole gale warnings tell
of a wind traveling at mile a minute or better.

There are other flags that supply nautical con—
versation—flags for every letter of the alphabet
of the General Service Code (International
Morse), pennants for numerals, and those fas-
cinating yachtsman’s flags that say “Owner on
board,” “Crew at meals” and other interesting
gossip about the private lives of the vessel’s
inhabitants.

About the Weather

If you are water-wise you must be weather—
wise. Do you know where weather comes from?
That question is not as silly as it sounds. Weather
comes from the west, as a rule, in the United
States. Look at a map of the United States
Weather Bureau and see how the high and low
pressure areas travel across the country from the
Pacific coast to the Atlantic. (For twenty cents a

month the Weather Bureau in the nearest. city wil
send you a daily map; or look for it in you]
newspaper.) How fast does weather travel'
That’s not a silly question either. It averages abou
400 miles a day. Today’s weather in the country
400 miles west of you is likely to be your weathei
tomorrow, subject, as the train schedules say, tr
change without notice. To seamen, however, tht
weather does give notice and some of the sea-
man’s wisdom may be yours. Notice the wind anc
watch the western clouds!

Fair weather clouds are the cream-puff, 01
cumulus clouds. You can see them on bright sunn}
days, arranged in rows parallel to the westerr
horizon. They are thick, flattish 0n the bottom
and dome-shaped on top. On very hot, muggy
days they may bring showers in the afternoon
but nothing to alarm a sailor. The mackerel sky
with its tiny cloud flakes lined up like the ribbing
of sea sand or the scales of a fish, foretells winds
or warmer weather.

Seamen watch for the high-riding feathery
clouds called mares-tails. They are the cirrus
clouds that some people call weather breeders—-
their appearance usually means that the end of
fair weather is in sight; rain will fall within a
day or so.

The mares-tails are light and so they travel fast.
ahead of the storm. Close on their heels, some-
times overtaking them, are the puffy, often gray-
ish strato—cumulus clouds. They confirm the mes-
sage of the first couriers.

The thin milky sheet of clouds that sometimes
covers the sky in the morning means nothing, as a
rule, for the sun may burn through by noon. If
the clouds arrive in the afternoon or persist until
then, they mean rain within twenty-four hours.
Storm coming closer! ’

The low-lying cloud sheet whose rolling surl-
face covers the whole sky is made up of stratus
clouds. When they appear, get ready for rain in
seven hours or less.

Everyone quotes proverbs about the weather but‘

how many of the proverbs are true? Here are a.‘

few that the Girl Scout Mariners quote because!

they are borne out by fact: I

Mackerel skies and mares-tails
Make lofty ships carry low sails

Red sky at night, sailors’ delight
Red sky at morning, sailors’ warning.

When the sea. gulls fly inward uttering sharp, shrill
screams, a storm may be expected.

A ring around the moon is a sign of rain.
What weather do you predict for tomorrow?

' CALLING ALL LANDLUBBERS! 215

Identifying Boats

But there’s more than weather to interest you
aim the never ending pageant of the sea and sky.
When the moon rises over the water and a tall-
,masted ship sails silhouetted into the circle of
clight, do you say, “Oh, look at the boat”? Or do
you know (by her size and her three headsails)
:that this lofty beauty is a cutter, one of the fastest
‘modern sailing vessels? Can you tell a gaff-rigged
'.sloop from a jib—headed s100p. and would you
:mistake a ketch for a yawl in broad daylight? In
.;the words of a recent advertising campaign, “It’s
fun to be fooled but it’s more fun to know!” The
rigging of a ship can tell you a great deal about
the work she does, how far .and how fast she
l . . . .
travels. Her canvas spread in a high w1nd Wlll
'iell you something about the wisdom or the fool-

 

iardiness of her owner, too.
The fascinating terminology of boats is too long
,:0 go into here. But you might like to remember
:hat both yawls and ketchs are two—masters, hav-
ing one large mast forward and one small n1ast
1ft. The small or mizzen mast of the yawl is
: Farther back than that of the ketch—almost at «the
:nd of the boat (aft of helm is the technical way
 )f saying it).
I The little one-mast, one—sail boats that dot the
larbors of our seacoast and our inland waters are
"atboats. Their masts are stepped well forward
3 .nd they may be gaff—rigged, jib-headed, or some—
.imes, even smaller, with a lug sail or sliding gun-
er. Look at the pictures in a dic—
‘ionary or nautical reference work
i you want to see what these are.
Being able to recognize the type
' f boat your friend possesses is
lne of the finest courtesies a
I landlubber can pay an owner.
Lnd it doesn’t do you any harm
rith other landlubbers’ either!

   

Marvels of Marine Life

Mermaids, dolphins, Mother
'arey’s chickens, and Davey
'anes’ Locker have passed from
3a lore to every day conversa—
On. Some of them are real and
)me are not, and the amazing
ling about marine life is that

{zality is likely to be as unbeliev-
rle as legend.

What is the mysterious force
at makes clouds of gorgeous

0

 

Monarch butterflies gather at the shore and fly

' resolutely out to sea until they are destroyed by

wind and wave? Who could trust his own eyes
when he sees an animal that does not bother to
swallow his food, merely throws out his stomach
and surrounds it! (That’s the starfish.) Why
does the wood duck, which nests in a hollow tree,
always carry its young, one by one, to the nearest
lake or river? Once you have made friends with
the sea you can never escape it. The skeletal re-
mains of prehistoric fish have been found in the
mountains of Bavaria and in our own deserts.
Perhaps that is why sea lore is so fascinating. It
reaches back into the very beginnings of all life
and is touched with the glamour of a day when
all the world was new and infinitely mysterious.

New Interest Guaranteed!

There is no end to the new interests that will
come into your life if you take watermanship as
your hobby. It makes no difference what your age
or sex may be. Women and children first—and
not to the lifeboats either. They’re more likely to
man the halyards or holystone the deck. More
than 2,603 girls, for example, in the Girl Scout
Mariners are learning how to go down to the sea
in ships (including the items mentioned in this
article and many more). They are enjoying shan-
ties and stirring tales of yachtman’s exploits, the
world’s navies and merchant marines.

(Continued on page 247)

“Paul Parker Photo”

What They Say About Recreation

portunity for real pleasure than in the culti~

vation of one’s tastes for beauty and art. As
a matter of fact, no life seems quite complete, be
it ever so useful or successful, that has not felt
the thrill that comes with such appreciation or cre-
ation. Thousands of young people toil during the
day whose lives are unavoidably cast upon a back~
ground of routine and sameness—the world’s
work must be done—*to them should be offered
pastures where beauty and inspiration may he
gathered, places where rich and poor alike may
give expression to their finer emotions—play—
grounds for the soul.” , Samuel Fleislzer, Founder,

Philadelphia’s Graphic Sketch Club.

II I KNOW of no better way of expanding one’s op—

 

“The rootage of much that man has done and
thought is found in the field of the arts. Com~
merce itself and trade, whether national or inter-
national, depends on developments in these fields.
In a casual survey of the history of man there
seems to be ample evidence that developments in
these fields have gone hand in hand with the rise
of civilization; where creative genius in the arts
and crafts has been stagnant, civilization seems to
have made little progress.” —Dr. George M.
Wiley in School and Society.

“The best teachers, in my observation, are those
who contribute by a subtle process of contagion a
joyous attitude toward life.”—-Henry A. ll/allare,
Secretary of Agriculture.

“\V e are no longer so sure of “stocks and bonds,
but we are more sure than ever of the carry—
over values of reading, nature, hobbies, music,
art, drama, crafts, camping, and activities in the
fields of social recreation and sports. All of these,
with proper guidance, will aid greatly in round-
ing out the education of youth and in bringing
about a better interplay of leadership, facilities
and services, not only among individuals but also
among schools and municipal governments serv-
ing the people recreationally.”—G. W. Danielson,
Director of Recreation, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

216

“A full arsenal of recreational resources should:
contain more than one type and should furnish.
activities for different seasons. They might well;
come in pairs like animals into the ark, one for
summer and one for winter. Thus golf and bowl-
ing may lie down together, or tennis and skating

or swimming and volleyball.”—Dudley R. Reed,
M.D., in Keep Fit and Like It.

“Recreation is not merely amusement. It is ex—
pressing, creating, daring, adventuring. It is put-
ting life together in trial patterns and new de-
signs. It is subjecting imagination, courage, reso—
lution, and our whole range of skills and creative
capacities to the test. W’e don’t really live in the
things we must do. We live when released to fol-
low the beckonings, the lures and enticements of
freedom. That’s when life mounts to high tide.»
That’s the stuff we are dealing with in rec-
reation.”—V. K. Brown, Chicago.

“It is the community’s job to re-create the
spirit of the neighborhood, to see to it that»
individuals do not remain ‘lost souls' in the city.
Unless we are prepared to accept as desirable the
corporative State, which I trust we never shall,
where each individual is assigned a particular
function and station in life, we must restore to
society opportunities for voluntary association
where the instinct to want to be a neighbor and"
to have neighbors will be gratified.”-——Dr. Harold 

W. Dodds, President of Princeton University. g

l

“Those who are interested in directing the uses-
of leisure time into desirable channels are in-W;
creasingly interpreting the social objectives Off
leisure in terms of enriched personalities and-
abundant living. Personality enrichment includes
the development of the body. the equipment of
the mind, the control of the emotions, the growth
of character, the acquisition of skills and efficient
social expression, and the art of living together.”
—Martin H. Neumeyer.

Swimming Pool Construction and Operation

An intormal chat on aquatic rec-
‘reation and a Few suggestions For
the construction and etticient

-' administration ot swimming pools

 

 
 
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
   

By DAVID MCCARY

Superintendent of Recreation
Beverley Hills. California

HERE IS NO physical activity, sport or
recreation that can be compared with
swimming, nor one from which the
participant derives such benefit; and for
those who have enjoyed this sport, noth—
ing revives more pleasant memories.

The history of aquatic recreation goes
back beyond the time of the Roman Em-
pire, with some interesting relics such as
Assyrian carved stone tablets dated 800 B. C. show-
ing a soldier swimmnig toward a fort, and, sur-
‘ prisingly, with a well deflned “crawl” stroke.

The all-time aquatic record probably goes to
:he Roman Emperor Caracalla. This man has lit-
:le claim to fame except that he built a public
)ath which covered four hundred thousand square
.rards, required forty thousand workers in its con—
struction, and accommodated three thousand bath-
EI'S. Of these baths an encyclopedia says, “We
1ave only to gaze upon the ruins of Caracalla at
Rome to see how utterly words fail to describe
he vastness of this glorious and luxuriously
:dorned edifice.”

Be that as it may, it has been left to America
0 reach the greatest development of aquatic rec-
'eation. Today we construct an elaborate swim-
ning p001, press an electric button, set in motion

score of devices, flltration and sterilization
quipment, produce thousands of gallons of pure
parkling water, and accommodate thousands of
mmmers.

‘ Having brought the construction and operation

If pools to a point of technical perfection, the
uroblem now is: What shall we do to promote this
ascinating sport and make it a national recrea-

i " '  r,
. f. \ I, .

\

 

tion for the greatest number—a recreation that
will develop healthy bodies, clean minds, and save
lives ?

Among the most important things to be con-
sidered in the interest of patrons of swimming
are the following: the enforcement of regulations
dealing with public health and the particular needs
of the individual at both private and public pools,
and the development of a standard of aquatic eti-
quette to protect the swimmer from his own vio-
lation of personal cleanliness and give decent
preparation to the swimmer about to enter the
water of a public pool.

Compulsory shower lanes and antiseptic foot
baths are not the solution. While construction of
proper showers and other necessary sanitary con-
veniences are a beginning, other necessities in-
clude privacy combined with fairly luxurious con-
struction, proper heating, good ventilation and
supervision of the shower rooms.

The construction of a modern swimming pool
cannot be appraised in dollars and cents; it is a
matter of service. Today such an institution
should include rehnements and color schemes that
approach the inspirational.

217

218

The Beverley Hills P001

In planning and construction, the city of Bever-
ley Hills set a high standard in community effort
when it built its municipal pool at La Cienega
Park, cost of which was defrayed by an appro-
priation of $85,000 from the city’s general fund.
The pool, opened to the public in 1929, has been
improved from time to time, one interesting ad-
dition being a steel sash and glass surrounding
wall. Another improvement has been the creation
of a one hundred per cent slip—proof concrete
deck surrounding the pool.

Two pools are provided—a shallow pool for
small children, and the main pool, I 50’ X 45’, con-
taining 280,000 gallons of water, with a filtration
turn-over of 900 gallons per minute.

The pool is located at the entrance to a nine
acre recreation center developed by the city. This
playground is beautifully landscaped and pro-
vided with improvements such as thirteen stand-
ard championship concrete tennis courts, a lighted
softball field, putting greens, volley ball and cro-
quet courts and other recreational facilities as
well as beautiful picnic grounds.

Construction Features. The entire pool is en-
closed with a solid glass wall windbreak twelve
feet high connecting with the men and women’s
locker rooms, which are constructed parallel and
on Opposite sides of the pool. This attractive
glass enclosure prevents prevailing cool winds
from the ocean from chilling the bathers, and
debris from blowing into
the pool from the surround-

Arrangement of lobby. office and other

SWIMMING POOL CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION

ing park. It is a great factor in maintaining a
clean pool in such an open location.

In designing the main building and locker
rooms, a combination of Moorish and Spanish
architecture was followed, giving the pool the at-
mosphere of an estate or country club. It has
often been used by motion picture studios in the
production of pictures.

The second fioor is designed as an apartment
for the superintendent of recreation, who is re-
sponsible to the City Council for maintenance and
successful operation of the pool as well as other
recreational activities.

The doors and windows of the first fioor are
bordered with green, blue and gold glazed tile.
This color scheme and material is effectively con-
tinued in the lobby and along the locker room
walls and around the deck of the pool, and per-
mits a wainscot color scheme of sea green with
sky blue on the walls surrounding the entire pool.
Flooring in the main lobby is of twelve inch
square dark brown Spanish tile, with walls and
ceiling finished in a two-toned brown, and counter
of mahogany.

The bottom of the. pool is of smooth white.
medusa cement, with drains provided under ex-
pansion joints converging into an inspection pit
in the filtration room. The sides are part tile and
part a special smooth white plastic.

The deck of the pool has been made exception-
ally slip-proof. This feature has attracted much
attention and has' been used in the construction of
other pools. This slip-proof
deck has been produced by

service rooms greatly facilitates supervision

is = = i.

-_ T0
§?IQWéY Pool.
LAUNDRY STORAGE CASHIERS

'IJLIVM
99106

i To POOL ‘AND MENS
DRESSING Rooms

 

 

CO

Mama
Room
TIRST HAIR. DRYING

AID ROOM

UNTEFL

To POOL AND WOMENS I
DRESSING ROOMS

 

 

 

LOBBY

II - omcs

 

WOM ENS
REST ROOM 

l SWIMMING POOL CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION 219

 In this picture will
' be seen a section of
I the solid glass wall
I windshield which pro-
tects swimmers from
the prevailing winds

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

the use of a grinding
machine with a car-
borundum Wheel.
Cutting into the ce-
ment surface one-
sixteenth of an inch,
grooves three-six-
teenths of an inch
wide are produced
two and one—half in-
ches apart, parallel to
each other and at an
angle of forty-five
degrees to the edge
of the pool. In addition to its safety features it
is attractive in appearance, and accelerates drain—
age of the pool deck. a

The edges of the pool are bordered with one
inch square blue and white tile construction which
150 forms the gutter and continues two feet down
he side below the surface of the water. The bot-
om of the pool slopes very gradUally from a
depth of three to nine feet. This construction has
' proven satisfactory. It gives both the non-swim-
.ner and the beginner a large play area without
:he danger of suddenly stepping off into deep
.vater. It is also good for the purpose of instruc-
:ion in swimming.

Locker and Shower Rooms. Locker rooms are
lat roofed with massive beams and equipped with
500 individual steel lockers 36” x 18” x 10”. The
ockers are located in the center of the room with
)rivate dressing rooms along the walls. Rest
'ooms and showers are located at the exit from
he locker rooms to the pool, and are finished in
vhite and black tile with partitions of marble.
Fhe showers are thermostatically controlled by
Iressing the foot on a chromium button, and there
re individual liquid soap dispensers directly
under each shower.

In the construction of modern pools, greater
onsideration should be given to accommodations
the locker rooms and shower rooms. If proper

 

facilities are provided the requirements for a high
degree of personal cleanliness will be met by most
persons using a swimming pool. There should be
full-length lockers, with separately divided ac-
commodations for adults and children. Clean, dry,
sanitary floors, and air conditioning to the right
temperature are among the requirements of the
locker and shower rooms.

The Water Supply. The water used in the pool
is seCUred from the city’s water treatment plant
located 500 yards from the pool. This arrange-
ment is an ideal one, for in addition to furnishing
the pool with filtered water of high quality it
permits frequent bacteriological tests of the pool
water to be made in the laboratory of the plant.
At no time is green water added to the pool, all
water added to the pool being first filtered. The
importance of this cannot be overemphasized.

The circulation of the water in the modern pool
should be so arranged that the water will fiow into
the pool from the bottom upward, and out over
beautifully constructed gutters covered with ap-
propriate decorative grating, and back to the puri—
fication plant. Such a system of circulating the
water would revolutionize conditions in the swim-
ming pool, because all debris and other matter that
contaminates a swimming pool floats on top of

the water until it becomes water-logged, when it
seeks a lower level, mixing with the water until

220 SLVIJLMING POOL CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION

all bathers are out, then settles to the bottom
where it remains until vacuumed out.

Filters are the horizontal pressure type and are
backwashed by taking the water from the pool,
and in addition means are provided to add to the
backwash pressure of the domestic water supply,
if desired. This is arrived at safely, and in com-
pliance with the law, through the installation of
check valves and a vacuum breaker attached to
the water main before it connects with the filters.
It permits the operator to add make-up water,
fill the pool and frequently overflow the pool
through the filters.

The temperature of the pool water is thermo-
statically controlled. All other equipment, such as
heating units, pumps, chlorinators, alum and soda-
ash feeders, is automatic, or manually controlled.
The pool is vacuumed and brushed daily, thereby
eliminating the algae problem.

Notes on Facilities. Facilities provided should
include a laundry room, first aid room, and a
modern hair drying room equipped with six hair
dryers of original construction. The air is con-
trolled through flexible rubber tubing; all elec-
trical apparatus is placed out of the reach of wet
hands and hair. Make-up tables and mirrors sur-
round the room.

Life guard chairs in the modern pool should be
at least nine feet high, in order that the guards
not only be separated from the patrons, but to
facilitate observation of submerged persons and
more efficiently carry out necessary safety meas-
ures and supervision.

Some Hints in Administration

Sixteen employees are required for the opera-
tion of the pool: six life guards, four locker at-
tendants, two. cashiers, one operator, one laundry-
man, a bicycle checker and supervisor. Four or
five guards are on duty during busy hours, they
change their stations every fifteen minutes, ro-
tating clockwise around the pool deck. Discipline
is maintained through dignified, courteous service,
with familiarity between employee and patron
prohibited. Locker attendants lock and unlock
lockers for patrons and enforce necessary pre-
cautionary measures to insure compliance in con—
nection with all rules of health and conduct in the
locker rooms. These employees are selected upon
evidence that they have good judgment and
ability to handle a difficult situation.

Persons coming to the pool on bicycles are re-
quired to park them under the supervision of an

employee who devotes his time to caring for thes
prized steeds while their youthful owners are be
coming Helene Madisons 0r Johnny W eismuller'

Eating and smoking on the premises are not a'
lowed, and foodstuff cannot be sold, either 
rectly, or by slot machine on or near the premise:
Carefully selected bathing caps are sold to p2
trons, and all women and girls are required t
wear caps while swimming. Boys and men at
permitted to wear trunks only. .

The price of admission is fifteen cents for a
persons under sixteen years of age, and twent}
five cents for all persons over that age. A privat
dressing room costs ten cents additional, an
rental of a suit is ten cents. Reduced rates of ad
mission are allowed Boy Scout troops and othe
organizations attending the pool in groups.

Swimming hours are from 9:30 A. M. to 5:3
P. M. with a half-hour period of free instructio:
in swimming to boys and girls from eight 1
twelve years of age at 9:00 A. M. The first stej
in this instruction is a lecture. then a demonstra
tion which shows the meaning of all the term
used in swimming. The American Crawl is “takei
apart” for the beginners bit by bit, then recon
structed by the demonstrator, first showing thu
float, next the flutter kick, then the arm stroku
and breathing. The group is cautioned concern
ing the disadvantages and possible hazards 0
some activities which are really acrobatics, sucl
as walking on the hands in shallow water, jump
ing into water feet first, swimming under wate‘
and any unusual activities which might causl
water to be forced through the nose and into th:
inner ear.

It is surprising how quickly children from eigh
to twelve years of age will learn to swim througl
the method described, especially when the in
structor goes into the water and gives each Chik
individual attention during the first lesson. The
classes are limited to twenty pupils.

Swimming and playing in water are refreshing
and vitalizing for a certain length of time, varying
with the individual, but it is doubtful whether an)
child should be permitted to remain at a swim-
ming pool more than two hours under the usua
conditions, where rest periods in a wet suit are
followed by violent exercise with little supervision

Looking Ahead

The 1939 aquatic recreation center should he
built to fulfill a useful community purpose. Inli'

(Continued on page 248)

 

BLUE SKY, with gulls fiy-
ing overhead; a white,
sandy beach; rippling

vaves ; a breeze which filled the sails of countless

"allant yachts, and a horde of youngsters, clad for

1e most part in bathing trunks, with the light of

nquest in their eyes!

This was the picture presented at Mission

Heach, several miles from San Diego, California,

ne morning last June, when 750 boys ranging in

Inge from twelve to fifteen years, gathered to com—

   
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
 
   

iate for a series of silver trophies and certificates
f merit. The occasion was the fourteenth an-
.1al model yacht regatta sponsored by the Manual
raining Department of the San Diego Junior
-._'igh Schools. Boys from ten schools met for the
i'ent. ’
Every boat was designed and built by the boy
rho sailed it. The teachers gave instruction, su-
rvised and made suggestions, but all of the
itual work was done by the boys themselves.
loreover, if a boy had any original ideas regard—
g the construction of keel or sail which he
)Ught would make for greater speed or
Uunchness, he was permitted to try them out.
:r weeks the boys had spent all their Spare
:iments working on their yachts, adding little
tches here and there to increase the efficiency of
pair boats, and today, before a throng of several
vnusand admiring friends and relatives, came the
at test.

There were two general classes of boats, wooden
ad metal, with a great preponderance of the
timer type. The wooden boats were of two dif-
fient kinds: the hollowed out (cut from a single
1:lck of wood), and the built-up (after thefash-

J of the modern yacht). Each general class was

1

By WILLIAM BLISS STODDARD
Redondo, California

Courtesy Public Recreation Commission, Cincinnati, Ohio

l A Regatta of Their Own!

divided into four sub-classes
-——the one, two, three and
four footers. Competition in
the one foot yachts—and there were more of
these than in all the other classes together—was
limited to boys of the seventh grade. The course
was shorter lifty yards, while for the larger boats
it was seventy-five yards. The wooden and metal
boats did not compete against each other but ran
in separate classes.

The entire morning was taken up with the one-
foot class, as it was necessary to run sixteen heats
and four semi-finals before eliminations permitted
the sailing of the final race. And when the last
little fleet had sailed across the water, watched by
thousands of eager spectators including school-
mates of the entrants who formed enthusiastic
rooting bands, and the winners had been picked
up by the motor boats stationed just behind the
fifty yard line, it was found that a little Japanese
lad had outsailed all of his schoolmates and had
won the coveted prize. The young commodores
all along the shore cheered the winner and almost
overwheimed him with congratulations.

Although fewer in number, the two, three and
four foot entries commanded the keenest interest
of the spectators because of the impressive picture
they made, as with sails set to catch the rather
stiff breeze they glided majestically across the
water.

An innovation this year was the introduction of
power boats—a symbol of modernism to which
the manual training directors gave heed. These
boats were of two classes—the simpler boats
worked by rubber bands or clock springs, and
those with tiny electric motors. Interest ran high

(Continued on page 249)
221

Recreational Aspects of Stream Pollution

HE RECENT report of the

Water Resources Com-

mittee to the President
states that while public health
will always be the basic con-
sideration in pollution abate—
ment, nevertheless the rela-
tive importance of wild life,
recreational and aesthetic con-
siderations seems likely to
increase. Following a discus-
sion of the difficulty in evalu—
ating wild life losses on a regional or national
scale Mr. Abel Wolman, Chairman of the Com-
mittee, makes the following significant statement:

“Recreational values which have depreciated or
failed to materialize as a result of water pollution
are even more elusive to measurement. They are
affected by bacterial pollution which renders
water unfit for bathing, and by solid or dissolved
substances which cause obnoxious odors, taste,
and color and produce unsightly conditions that
make the water unattractive to the angler, swim—
mer, or summer cottager. Pollution has caused
the decline in recreational use of some water and
land areas, particularly in metropolitan districts.
It has been more influential in limiting new recre-
ational development in such districts and in forc-
ing public and private agencies to seek more dis-
tant locations for park and resort facilities. A
clear stream has aesthetic value which is real but
intangible, and its restoration or preservation may
yield large community benefits.

“The Committee wishes to emphasize the im-
portance and the intangible character of the wild
life and recreational effects of water pollution in
comparison with its other effects. As the public
health hazards are eliminated or minimized, and
as that abatement which patently is feasible from
the standpoint of reducing water treatment and
corrosion costs is accomplished, the justification
for a greater degree of abatement will rest in con-
siderable measure upon the values assigned to
wild life, recreation, and the aesthetics of clean
streams.”

In discussing the effect of pollution on recrea-
tion before the Rivers and Harbors Committee,
Mr. Bleecker Marquette, Executive Secretary of
the Public Health Federation of Cincinnati, filed

222

In connection with the bill now before
the Congress for the control of water
pollution through the creation of a Di-
vision of Water Pollution Control in the
United States Public Health Service.
Hudson Biery. Chairman of the Commit-
tee of the Chamber of Commerce of
Cincinnati having the subiect under con-
siderationI calls attention to some of the
implications for recreation which are in-
volved. We quote a number of extracts
from Mr. Biery's statement on the subject.

a series of photographic ex-
hibits’ relating to the problen
and made the following
statement:

“The condition of 0m
streams is a serious detri-
ment to recreation possibili-
ties in this area. In a climate
such as ours, with high hu-
midity and intense heat dur-
ing the summer months, wa-
ter sports, including swim;
ming, form an especially desirable form of
recreation.

“Unfortunately there are no natural lakes in the
Cincinnati area, the only bodies of water being
rivers. The excessive pollution of the Ohio River
makes it so dangerous for swimming that the
Board of Health has for several years had to
notify the inhabitants of this area of this danger
and warn them against swimming in the rivers.
The minor streams, now contaminated to a lesser
degree, are year by year becoming more danger—
ous for swimming. It is fully established by
medical science that there is great danger in swim-
ming in a polluted stream. Any of the raw water
may contain the bacilli of typhoid fever, dysen-
tery, or other diseases.

“Organizations conducting health camps in this
area have found it necessary at great expense to
construct pools, largely because of the fact that
the adjoining streams are unfit for swimming
purposes.

“The pollution of the Ohio and its tributarie§
to a larger degree restricts water sports. Even the
use of boats is rendered undesirable by the Od0r$
arising from filth constantly dumped into the
river. There is no fishing in the Ohio and little
in the smaller streams because fish cannot live in
highly polluted water.

“In communities adjoining rivers elsewhere in
the country the banks are developed for parks
and recreation purposes to the great advantage of
the health, comfort, and pleasure of the people Of
the community. Such a program is envisioned
for Cincinnati by the Cincinnati Planning Com}
mission and the Recreation Commission, but the
fulfillment of their hopes in this direction is

(Continued on page 250) l

I. ANY PEOPLE prefer to take their swimming

M “straight”; others like to introduce a little

sauce in the form of games and stunts. So

here are a few ftm provoking activities to give
your program added zest.

Games Adapted to Water Play

There are many games played on land which
may be readily adapted as water sports. A few
of them follow:

Cat and Rat. Cat and Rat is an activity for the
smaller children. Half of the grOUp grasp hands
and form a circle in water from waist deep to
:shoulder deep. One individual is selected to be
"‘it,” or in this case, the cat. A second individual,
' who is to be chased, is designated as the rat. The
.group holding hands will allow the rat to pass in

land out of the circle at will, but will impede the

 

progress of the cat at all times. When the rat is
caught by the cat, both may select other indi-
viduals from the group to take their places and
the game continues as before. A game of this
type is excellent in helping smaller children over—
‘eome fear of the water.

Bull in the Ring. Children
'hold hands, forming a circle
111 water about waist deep.
{One individual, known as the

bull, is chosen to stand in the

0

These water games and stunts have been
' assembled from a number of sources. A
bulletin on the subiect issued by the
Chicago Park District has been particu-
larly helpful in preparing the material.

 

Courtesy Hirs-Graf Studios

Games and Stunts for Water Play

center of the circle. He will charge the circle,
trying to break through or swim under or over
the hands of the players in the circle. If he suc-
ceeds in getting out of the enclosure, the entire
group will drop hands and swim after the bull.
The first one to tag him becomes the new bull in
the ring and the game proceeds as before.

Crows and Cranes. Choose two teams, one to be
known as Crows and the other as Cranes. Each
will have a safety zone in which they cannot be
tagged. The leader lines up the teams which face
each other at a distance of about six feet and
calls either “Crows” or “Cranes.” If the Crows
are called, the Cranes try to get to their safety
zone without being touched by the Crows, who
tag as many Cranes as possible. All of the Cranes
who are caught automatically become Crows and
must go to the opposite side. After playing the
game in this way two or three times have the
players, when they line up, turn their backs on
their opponents and then call either “Crows” or
“Cranes.”

Water Volleyball. Select two teams of equal
number. Designate an area in
the center of the pool as a
neutral zone. This corre-
sponds to the net in volley—
ball. Play starts with one
team tossing the water ball to

223

224 GAMES AND STUNTS FOR WATER PLAY

its opponents. If opponents catch the ball, they
receive one point for their team. The person
catching the ball then throws it back into the
opponents’ territory. He may pass it to another
member of his team who is closer to the neutral
zone than he is at the time. If the ball is dropped
by a member of his own team during the play,
the opponents receive one point. If the player in
trying to throw the ball into the opponents’ ter—
ritory fails to get it past the neutral zone and
into the opponents’ area, his opponents receive
one point. Twenty—one points usually constitute
a game.

Pom Pom Pullaway. This is one of several games
of the same type that can be used. The doggerel
for the game, Pom Pom Pullaway, is: “Pom Pom
Pullaway, Come away, come away.” Other games
of practically the same order are Hill Dill and
Red Rover. 1n playing the game one player (inn
ters the water while the others line up along the
bank. The player in the water shouts the dog-
gerel and all the players on the bank must dive in
and swim to the other side. If the player in the
water can tag any of the other players, those who
are tagged stay in the center and help catch the
rest of the players as the game continues.

Tag Games

There are many forms of tag games which may
be played in the water.
Under Wafer Tag. One player who is “it”
chases the other. A player must be under water
when he is tagged. “It” must also be under water

before the man he tags can be made “it.”

Cross Tag. The player who is “it” designates
one of the boys in the group and starts chasing
him. The player chased must keep out of his way,
for if he is tagged he becomes “it.” Should a
player dive between the boy being chased and the
one who is “it” he becomes the one to be chased.

Ostrich Tag. The players are bunched together
in one end of the pool, preferably the shallow end.
One player is designated to be “it.” He starts
chasing the others until someone is caught. To
keep from being caught a player must have one
of his arms under one of his legs and must be
holding his nose between his thumb and finger.
The player tagged becomes “it” and the game
progresses.

Ball Tag. This game is played in a limited area
in water waist deep for non-swimmers or in deep
water for swimmers. A player who is “it” tries

to tag someone by hitting him with the ball. The
player tagged becomes “it.”

Japanese Tag. The leader announces a certain
part of the body which must be tagged by “it.”
Those who are tagged must join “it,” and try to
tag the remaining players.

Third Frog in the Puddle. Players form in a
double circle with couples facing each other in
the shallow end of the pool. They choose one of
the players to be “it” and one to be chased. The
player who is to be chased may walk or swim
around or between the two players of any group.
“It” must try to tag the player toward whom the
chased player turns his back. The player tagged
becames “it” and should if possible tag the one
who caught him. Short and quick changes are
necessary to make the game exciting.

Tread Tag. One player is selected to be the
tagger; the others swim around the pool. TO
escape being tagged a player must tread water,
The tagger tries to touch a player before he can
stop swimming and begin to tread. A player who
is tagged changes places with the tagger.

Handicap Tag. From live to fifteen players may
take part in this game. The player who is “it”
tries to tag the other players as they swim around
the ,pool. He must, however, tag them about the
arms. or legs. When a player is tagged be con»
tinues to swim but cannot use the arm or leg
which was tagged. When he has been tagged sev—
eral times and can no longer swim at all he is out
of the game. The player keeping in motion long—
est wins.

“'

Hair Tag. The player who is it” must touch
another on the head who in turn becomes “it.”
Any number may play. Swimmers dive or jump
from sides and climb out on opposite side usuallyZ
“It” chases the players until he can touch another
on the hair. No one may run around the corners
of the pool but must jump or dive in the water
at every corner of the pool. After “it” has tagged
a player he cannot be tagged again until another
player has been made “it.”

Flashlight Tag. The pool is darkened and all the
players chase “it” who has a flashlight.

Games Which Introduce Floating

Log. From Five to twenty players may take part
in this game. A space is marked off at the 0p-
posite end of the pool for the two goals. One
player becomes the log and floats on his back inl

the center of the pool midway between the two;

GAMES AND STUNTS FOR WATER PLAY 225

goals. The other players swim in a circle around
the log. Without warning the log suddenly rolls
over and gives chase. The players try to reach
one of the goals without being tagged. Any player
caught becomes a log and floats in the center with
the first log. The last one to be caught is the log
for the next game.

Still Pond. There may be from twenty to fifty
playing this game. One player who is “it” stands
at one side of the pool and covers his eyes with
his hands. As soon as he is blindfolded, all the
other swimmers start to swim the length of the
pool. “It” counts from one to ten, then says
“Still Pond———no more moving,” and opens his
'- eyes. \Vhen he does this everyone must be fioating
imotionless. Anyone seen moving is sent back to
the starting point. The game is continued until
all have swum the length of the pool. The last
one who arrives becomes “it” for the next game.

Games Which Introduce Treading Water

Count Ten and Stop. Five to twenty players.
‘One player who is leader stands with his back
against the wall at one side of the pool, all other
.lplayers being lined up in the water at the op-
iposite side. The leader covers his eyes and counts
I aloud slowly from one to ten. He then says “Stop”
_ and looks up quickly. \Vhen he begins to count,
all the players start to swim toward him. When
She says “Stop” they stand up if in shallow water;
.iif in deep water they tread. Any who are still
'. swimming when the leader looks up are sent back
to the starting place. The game proceeds until all
have reached the side on which the, leader stands.

   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
   

Broncho. Any number of players must take
tpart. Players stand in couples with the one repre-
‘ senting the broncho
directly behind the
player who is to be
the rider. The rider
stands with his feet
wide apart. The
)I‘Ol’lChO bends his

Canoe tilting has
ong been a popu-
lar stunt. But be
we you're a good
.wimmer before you
attempt this stunt!

knees and places his head between the legs of the
rider. The broncho then straightens his body and
carries the rider up on his shoulders. \Nith a
toss, the broncho fiings the rider backward into
the water. Broncho and rider then change places.

Acrobatic Swim. Any number of players may
take part in this game. They start from the deep
end of the pool and finish in the shallow end. The
object of the game is to see how many stunts can
be executed while swimming the length of the
pool. The players begin with a fancy dive. F or
example, a player begins with a jackknife dive.
swims a few strokes under water, executes a por-
poise, then the rolling log sculls, and finishes by
standing on his hands in shallow water. The
player who presents the greatest variety of stunts
is the winner.

Swimmers’ Games

Follow the Leader. One player acts as leader and
the rest follow. The leader demonstrates all kinds
of strokes and does all kinds of stunts. The boys
following must do everything the leader sets for
them to do. When the majority of the crowd can
stay to the finish in a match of this sort they can
be rated in the human fish class!

Swimming the Duck. The teams are divided and
lined up on both ends of the tank. A wooden de-
coy duck is placed in the center of the tank. The
side designated starts for it on the signal to go.
The first who reaches it swims in toward the op-
ponents’ goal, and, if blocked, can pass it by hand-
ing it to a member of his team. The other team
is on defense and it counts a block when a mem-
ber of its team secures the duck. The first team
has three trials to swim the duck through the

 

226 GAMES AND STUNTS FOR WATER PLAY

enemy lines to safety and the other team takes the
duck. Should the duck be thrown into the air it
is called a “fly” and the opposing side wins a
point. It is a strenuous game and is good practice

for water polo.

Stunts, Races, and Relays

Crocodile Race. Two teams of even numbers
line up behind their captains, each keeping his
hands on the hips of the man in front, and, with
the exception of the first man, all swim with the
power of the leg kick. The person with the
strongest kick should be at the end so as to keep
the line unbroken, or each man can lock his legs
around the middle of the man behind him, and
then each can use the arms, either crawl or breast,
the last man using only the kick.

Scramble Ball. Twelve floating corks or balls are
required. Players are divided into two teams, with
team “A” on one side of pool, team “13” on other.
(It is advisable for players to be in water and
hang to side of pool.) The director stands on
spring board, tosses balls into water, and at com-
mand “Go” players try to get as many balls for
their team as possible. Balls are then collected and
teams are credited with number of balls obtained.
Games continue as above until one of the teams
has secured fifty balls or any other number
decided upon.

Potato Relay Race. Twelve floating corks or
balls are required. Equal teams lined up at end of
pool (as for shuttle relay). Floating corks thrown
in water to represent potatoes. At “Go” one
player from each team dives in, secures a potato,
returns and deposits same in gutter or box. then
next man goes, etc. Team through first wins.

Animal Race. Animal heads are cut out of wood
or cardboard and attached to sticks carried by
swimmer swimming under water.

Obstacle Swimming

Swimming in the Rain. Each player swims car-

rying an umbrella and using a side stroke with
one arm.

Prisoner. Each swimmer has his hands behind
his back or swims with both hands and feet tied
-——either hands in front or in back.

Towel Race. Players swim, crawl, or backstroke,
a large towel held in each hand by one corner.

Plate Swimming. Players swim with large platt
or shell in each hand. As a variation a paddle ma}
be strapped to forearms and hands.

Paddle Race. Swimmers paddle through watei
with regular size canoe paddle.

Obstacle Race. Various obstacles are arrange(
in the path of the swimmers and special difficul-
ties are prescribed. Canoes, boats, or logs hinge;
together are used. The swimmers go over 01
under as instructed.

Stunt and Comic Diving

Torpedo. With a running start, the swimniei
springs from dock or end of pool and plunge:
feet first into the water with arms extended over
head. He sculls with hands pushing body, feet
foremost under water, and then comes up feet
first together with toes pointed.

Diving for Accuracy. Player dives through in-

‘ Hated inner tube with body in different positions

such as plain dives, feet foremost dive, sailor dive
and jackknife. The valve stems should be taped to
avoid injury.

Chinese Dive. - The swimmer places his hands
together and moves them up and down as though
praying. He squats and rises, springs high into
the“ air with legs drawn up as in the frog kick

recovery, then plunges straight down. He comes
up holding pigtail in self-rescue attempt.

A Simple Carnival Program

The following program is suggested for a win-
ter carnival:

1. Burlesque style paraded—Craziest swimming suit wins.

2. Twenty yard free style—Boys 12 years and under.

3. Twenty yard free style—Girls 12 years and under.

4. Getting watermelon from greased pole—Boys must
stand on feet 6 minutes.

5. Girls obstacle race. Changing clothes (2 teams, 4 all
each shuttle).

6. Forty yard free style—Boys 14 and under.

7. Forty yard free style—Girls 14 and under.

8. Pie Eating—Eating While swimming—Girls (8 small
pies).

9. Pillow fight on greased pole. Boys (4 minutes).

10. Forty yard ’back stroke. Boys open division.

11. Forty yard breast stroke—Girls open division.

12. Chinese Life Saving.

13. Fancy Diving. Open division.

14. Obstacle race. Boys.

15. Tug of War. Boys.

16. Lighted Candle Relay. Girls.

17. Water Basketball Game. Boys.

18. Greased Watermelon Fight. Boys—15.

19. Sixty yard free style—Girls open division.

A City-Wide Swimming Program

By MAX FARRINGTON

’ THE MOST extensive public swimming program
l

ever staged inWashington, D.C.,was conducted
during the summer of 1938 when, for the first
time, the facilities of all organizations operating
pools in the District of Columbia were combined
l under a single authority. This program included
a large and very successful swimming instruction
and free-swim campaign; a series of city-wide
' competitive meets for both boys and girls in which
iparticular attention was paid to beginners; su-
i pervised activity for younger children in wading
I pools and street showers; a schedule of advanced
l life saving classes conducted by Red Cross ex-
- perts, and, finally, as an appropriate close to the
lentire program, a colorful water pageant which
featured the special work accomplished under each

.l of these details during the summer.

It is estimated that an aggregate of more than
" 600,000 persons were in attendance as participants
in this varied and extremely interesting program.
The oft-told story of Washington’s sweltering
summer heat is no fable, and last summer was
certainly no exception. During July and August,
those who are not able to escape the heat by leav-
ing the city, “dunk” themselves almost to a man
in one of the public pools! For this reason, the
.l coordinated swimming program put on by the
‘ Public Recreation Committee struck a most re-
sponsive chord. The newspapers and radio sta-
tions cooperated most generously, and news of the
program was kept before the public throughout
the summer. It was no

Facilities Available

Eight public pools, six for white persons and
two for colored, were used during the campaign.
Five of the eight, Anacostia, McKinley, Takoma,
Banneker and Francis, were operated by the Wel-
fare and Recreation Association for the National
Capital Parks Office. Two, Georgetown and Rose-
dale, were in charge of the Department of Play-
grounds. The eighth was the East Potomac Park
Pool, operated by the S. G. LoefHer Company. All
of these pools, except those at Rosedale and
Georgetown operated by the Department of Play-
grounds, charge an admission fee during their
regular hours from I to 10 P. M. Georgetown and
Rosedale, the municipal pools, Operate without
charge from 6 A. M. to 6 P. M. It was, therefore,
something of a concession for the other six pools
to be used from 9 A .M. until noon each day for
the swimming instruction and free-swim campaign.

A Learn-to-Swim Campaign

The “learn-to-swim” drive was opened on June
23rd and conducted for a period of ten weeks until
September 3rd. Instruction, supervised by the
Red Cross staff, was given without charge for
1,600 persons per week throughout this period.
New classes opened every Monday morning at
each pool. They were limited to 200 in each of
the eight classes and were open to boys and girls
and men and women of all ages. Official Red
Cross cards were provided at each of the eight
pools, and enrollees were required to register on

these cards the week

Ieffort to sell this pro—
gram; it sold itself. Once
under way, the swim-
ming, instruction and
free-swim campaign,

_ which of course had the
greatest popular appeal,
attracted more persons
leach week until late in
‘August the classes fairly
.bulged with those anxious
.to learn to swim or to
itake advantage of the
one and a half hours

lwhen the pools were open

lwithout charge.
l

In I938. for the first time. all water sports facili-
ties in Washington. D. C.. were unified under a
single head. For the first time all organizations
in the National Capital worked as a unit to pre-
sent an extensive program of swimming and water
sports. The Municipal Department of Playgrounds.
the National Capital Parks. the Welfare and Rec-
reation Association. the Community Center De-
partment of the Public Schools. the American Red
Cross and S. G. Loettler Company pooled their
resources under the Public Recreation Committee
to make the program an outstanding success. Each
agency was represented on a central committee.
Max Farrington. Executive Officer of the Men's
Physical Education Department of the George
Washington University. served as pool and swim-
ming supervisor for the Department of Playgrounds
and was in charge of the city-wide program.

prior to the start of in-
struction. No additions
or changes were made in
the classes for the week
after they were started
on Monday morning.
The classes were con-
ducted from 9 to 10:30
A. M., Monday through
Friday. Boys and girls
were instructed separate-
ly in three groups—be-
ginning, intermediate and
life saving — particular
attention being paid to
the first two groups. Fol-

227

228

lowing the instruction period
from 9 to 10:30, the period
from 10:30 until noon was
devoted to free swimming at
each pool. At this time the
pools were open to the pub-
lic as well as to the class
members. The latter were
given individual instruction and informal tests by
the instructors, who remained on duty until the
free swimming period closed at noon. In this way
considerable application of the lessons learned in
the early instruction period was at once available.
It was an ideal set-up. Public Recreation Com-
mittee officials estimated a total of over 400,000
visits to these pools during the free—swim period.

Meets for Boys and Girls

The program of meets was unusually success-
ful for both boys and girls, and 7,500 took part
in the individual p001, sectional and city-wide
meets. In the boys’ class, city champions were
selected in each of six weight divisions, starting
with the 70-p0und class and extending through the
unlimited divisions. The boys engaged in varied
and spirited competition. Teams from each play-
ground battled eagerly for pool honors. In the
girls’ class, however, competition was restricted
to individual pool and section meets. The girls
had colorful and interesting programs. They are
more restricted in their choice of events, but their
novelty races, such as the fan race, the balloon
race, the life preserver relay, as well as the night
shirt races, more than make up for these re—
strictions 1

Approximately 3,800 boys turned out for the
sectional qualifying meets which were held at
seven pools throughout the city. First, second,
and third-place winners in these meets advanced
to the city finals which were held August 5th in
the McKinley Pool. Each contestant was limited
to participation in one event and a relay, and each
playground to three entries in each event. About
375 survived the qualifying competition and be-
came eligible for the city championships.

A large, lively crowd was on 'hand for these
finals. The McKinley Pool was beautifully dec-
orated with American flags and with the pennants
and banners of the various playgrounds through-
out the city. It was a colorful occasion, and
there was great enthusiasm as the youngsters
splashed their way to various titles. Presentation
of awards was made at the conclusion of the meet,

Washington's experience last year con-
clusively demonstrated that by coordi-
nating their efforts the various agencies
concerned with the operation of public
swimming pools can vastly improve their
services. Our National Capital. deter-
mined to raise up a generation of swim-
mers. believes it has found the way.

A CITY-WIDE SWIMMING PROGRAM

with the winners receiving
“gold” medals for first place,
silver for second, bronze for

third.
The classes and events fol-
low: 70-pound class; 25-

yard free style, 25-yard side
stroke and loo-yard relay;
85-pound class: 25-yard free style, 25-yard side.
stroke and IOU-yard relay; loo—pound class: 25-
yard free style, 25-yard breast stroke and 100-
yard relay; I 35—pound class: 50-yard free style,‘_
50-yard breast stroke, 25-yard back stroke and.
100-yard relay; unlimited class: 50-yard free-

style, 50-yard breast stroke, 50-yard back stroke
and loo-yard relay.

Sectional Meets for Girls

The girls had no city-wide meet, but confined
their competition to individual pool sectional
meets. These were held at all eight pools, and
each was a decorative and competitive success.
The girls naturally go in for pageantry, and the
colorful decorations that surrounded each pool on
the day of the meet made each program a gay,
attractive affair. The list of events and exhibi-
tions was specially made up to demonstrate the
program of instruction carried on throughout the
summer, as well as to determine the oustanding
competitors in the orthodox swimming events.

As has been suggested, the novelty races drew.
great applause and proved most popular with the
contestants. The night shirt race, for example,.
held for the first time in Washington, proved a
quite popular innovation. In this unusual contest,
the swimmers donned large, white shirts, swam
the length of the pool, jumped out at the end and
exchanged shirts, then swam back, amid the"
laughter of the spectators. The feet-tied race inl‘
which the girls swim with both ankles securelyli
bound was also an interesting novelty. H:

The girls were limited to two events in the fol-'
lowing classes and events: 10 to 12 year class:
25-yard free style, floating demonstrations, fan_
race; I 3 and 14 year class: 25-yard side stroke,
feet-tied race, balloon race; I5 to 16 year class:
2 5-yard free style, life preserver relay, back stroke '
swim; 17 year and over class: 25-yard free style,
feet-tied race, butterfly breast stroke demonstra—l
tion, night shirt relay. .:

The girls’ swimming program was supervised!
by Miss Maude Nelson Parker, director of girls’
and women’s activities in the Department of Play-

A CI TY -l/V[DE .S‘l'VILlL’lrUNG PROGRAM 229

grounds, assisted by a capable corps of instructors
and playground officials.

Showers for the Tiny Tots

The facilities for keeping the younger children
cool and giving them an opportunity to swim were
provided in the large wading pool and street
shower program. Fourteen playground wading
pools were maintained under trained supervisors.
This gave the small children two hours of wel—
come play each morning and afternoon. In addi—
tion to combating the heat, the program eliminated
fear of the water, thus making it easier for the
children to learn to swim.

The Department of Playgrounds, in coopera—
tion with other recreation agencies, maintained
twelve street shower routes numbering about eighty

hour. Attendants turned on hydrants and the chil—
dren were allowed a half hour’s play at each
shower stop. This schedule, maintained during
July and August, and did much to provide recre-
ation and a cooling dip for those unable or too
small to attend pools. Playground officials re—
ported that an aggregate of over I 50,000 children
Visited the wading pools during the 1938 season,
and more than 200,000 visited the street showers.

And at the End, a Pageant

The summer swimming program was climaxed
in two beautifully staged, colorful water pageants
at the East Potomac and Banneker pools. Both
were open to the public and attracted capacity
crowds of more than 3,500 each. The East Po—
tomac pageant was titled “Navy Day.” It featured
formation swimming of more than a hundred Chil-

‘showers in all. With the cooperation of the Metro-
ipolitan Police Depart-
ment streets were
blocked off from traffic

each day at the same

dren from playgrounds
and pools throughout
Washington. There

(Continued on page 250)

This picture shows a section of the audience which
witnessed the pageant "Navy Day," presented at
East Potomac Pool. Washington. last August. A
team of expert swimmers maneuvered the giant star.

 

 

Romper Day's Silver Anniversary

Allentown’s playgrounds, and

the interest of Allentown’s
leading citizen, General Harry C.
Trexler, had been attracted to the program being
conducted for the little people and youth of his
city. Vt" hen an outing at the close of the play sea-
son was proposed to him, he agreed at once to
sponsor it and to assume the expenses connected

with it. The General himself set to work to
organize a staff of his friends and business asso-
ciates to carry out the idea and to take charge of
the many necessary details involved in providing
refreshments and in transporting and caring for
the children during the day.

That was twenty-five years ago. Our play-
grounds have grown from nine to twenty-one;
the number of children attending from 4,000 to
10,000. General Trexler was with us for twenty
of the twenty—five Romper Days, and Mrs. Trex-
ler for twenty—one of them. Throughout their
lifetime there was never any question about its
perpetuation. Years before they passed away, in
the preparation of their wills Romper Day seemed
to have been first in their thoughts in their long
list of charities. In fact, the General had ar-
ranged that should it happen that the earnings
were insufficient from the money set aside for
Romper Day, it can and must be replaced from
any other funds. Thus Romper Day will be the
last of his many bequests to disappear, because as
long as there is any money in the estate it must be
used for this purpose.

“Romper Day” got its name from the fact that
twenty—five years ago the children wore rompers
or bloomers in participating in the program. Each
playground had its own color, and the rompers
and caps were of the color of the playground.
Today the colors still remain, but shorts have
taken their place.

The affair immediately became a local city holi—
day. It was held at the Fair Grounds, with the
program conducted around the track. The grand-
stand seating 12,000 people, and
the paddock providing stand-
ing room for another 5,000,
were always filled to capacity.
It was reminiscent of Harvest
Days in Slovakia when the

230

IT was THE second season of

By IRENE WELTY

Superintendent of Recreation
Allentown' Pennsylvania

In August, AllentownI Pennsylvania.
will celebrate the twenty-fifth anni-
versary of Romper Day—a day which
is marked in'red on the calendars of
the playground children of that city!

land owner has a feast and party
for the entire population of his
city.

The children, with their play-
ground leaders, are transported in trolley cars to
the Fair Grounds. They assemble in the grove
and march to band music to their places on the
track. After all are assembled, the program be-
comes a mass exhibition of games, dances and
skills which had been learned during the summer
months. The program has always ended with the
May Pole dance by each playground, and the
spectacle is a colorful and beautiful one.

The first year that General Trexler was not
with us a memorial song was written, which is
sung by the entire assemblage of children and
spectators. The children face the west and sing:

Our Romper Day

1. Lehigh County, we salute thee
Land of hearts e’er brave and true
May thy hills and vales with beauty
Lead us on with hopes anew!

C hams:

So we’ll sing a song of good old Romper Day
Allentown we’ll love and praise

And we’ll ne’er forget our dear old school and home
No matter where we roam

And General Trexler’s memory
T 0 us shall ever sacred be

Sing all! Sing all! Proclaim our festal day
And cheer our Romper Day.

2. Ever forward! ever learning!
Let there be no word as “Fail”
Ever onward! ever yearning
God and country may prevail!

The singing is concluded with taps.

Usually about eighty children are selected from
each playground to participate in the program, but
every one enrolled on playgrounds receives free
transportation and tickets for refreshments.

After the program the eating begins! Food sta- ‘
tions are set up at six different houses on the Fair
Grounds. and two hundred school teachers volun-
teer their services to help
serve the food. The children
report to their places on the
ground and then proceed in. 5
single file to their stations.

(Continued on page 250)

l
l
l

l

l
l

i
l
.l

 

II

N RESPONSE to many requests
I received from community
residents and organizations
for suggestions and help in planning and handling
picnics, a number of recreation departments, park
departments. and other agencies have made pro-
vision for special picnic services which in most
cases may be had for the mere asking. Religious,
fraternal, social, employee and other community
organizations, are being helped through these ser—
vices. The addition of such services provides the
possibility of drawing in many people who may
not be fully acquainted with the recreation pro-
gram and strengthens ties already established.

Bulletins issued some years ago by the Cleve-
land Recreation Council contain interesting infor-
mation about their picnic services and plans for
handling picnic kits and programs for activities
which are appropriate for these special occasions.
We include a few of the suggestions as outlined
in material received from the Council.

Objectives
To take the “nick” out of picnic. Many picnics

are a failure because of the lack of an interesting

program and proper leadership.

To demonstrate the values of directed play.

There are still many people who do not believe
that leadership is essential. A

lgood time at a directed picnic

 

l

l

under qualified leadership and
a planned program is con—

vincing.
To effect a personal contact
between various groups of

 

Picnics do not run themselves! On
the other hand, careful planning is
necessary. 50 here are a few hints
on handling some of the preliminary

details which help make picnics so
much tun for everyone who attends.

Picnic Services 

By CLARK L. FREDRIKSON
National Recreation Association

adults and the recreation de-
partment. The interviews nec—
essary for the planning of the
picnic afford an excellent opportunity for the rep-
resentative of the recreation department to sell
his department to the group and to give to.its
members the objectives of the recreation move-
ment and problems, judiciously soliciting their
cooperation.

Publicity

Letters to churches, industrial concerns, lodges,
clubs and other community organizations. Lists of
many of the organizations can be obtained from
the city directory and the local Chamber of Com-
merce. A short, snappy letter explaining the offer
of assistance in planning and conducting picnics
is all that is necessary.

Newspaper articles.

Addresses. When making addresses, such as all
recreation leaders are called upon to make, do not
fail to mention the picnic service.

Picnic leader identihcation. Have the picnic
leader wear some insignia of the department, such
as an armband. It will attract attention, curiosity,
with resultant questions.

Council Assistance

Selecting a place for the picnic. Many organi-
zations have gone to the same
place for years, and wish ad-
vice on other possible places.
Arranging a program.
Providing data on prizes.
Loaning play material and
furnishing a list of play

231

232 PICNIC SERVICES

material to be bought by the picnic group.

Supplying play leader, if desired. If no play
leader is wanted, assistance is given the picnic
committee on how to plan and successfully con~
duct a picnic.

The Picnic Kit

Usually one of the more common services is
the picnic kit. It is one of the first necessities of a
picnic and is essential to a successful'program.
It usually includes baseballs and bats, volley balls
and nets, horseshoes and stakes, tug-of—war rope,
and other equipment needed for picnic races and
novelty events of all kinds. Additional equipment
which might be included is listed in a request form
which follows. Application
forms for the Use of kits
should include information as
to the individual and group
presenting the request, equip-
ment wanted, when received
and returned, and other rules
and special regulations relating
to the conditions of the loan.
Such an application might be
similar to the one outlined on
this page. The articles listed
are some of the more common
equipment included in picnic
kits.

In order that there shall be
a minimum loss and expense
in connection with the loan of
these kits, some person repre-
senting the organization, in

making the request, must Sign
for the articles borrowed. This person should be

authorized to assume every responsibility for the
replacement of equipment which is lost or un—
necessarily damaged.

In order that their limited amount of picnic
equipment is properly taken care of, the Depart—
ment of Recreation at Reading, Pennsylvania. re—
quires a deposit of $5.00 on the loaning of a kit,
one dollar of which is kept by the Department
for maintenance of the kit and its equipment, the
remainder being refunded when the kit is re-
turned. A tine of $1.00 is charged if it is not

returned at a designated time.
A satisfactory bag for carrying the equipment

and supplies can be made of heavy brown canvas,
about 3% feet high and 18 inches or more in

   

_.__._

diameter, with a draw string at the top. Boxes ‘

 

For transporting your picnic game
supplies you will tind it helpful
to have a heavy canvas bag or a
wooden "treasure" chestI which is
even more durable than the bag.

   

RECREATION

representing treasure chests also make excellent
containers and are often more durable than can-
vas bags. Hinged tops, locks. reinforced corners,
and leather handles for carrying. add to their at-
tractiveness and serviceability. Sides and tops can
be constructed from three-ply wood; the bottom
of one-inch material. The size of the kit will. of
course, depend upon the equipment one intends to
put in it. However, bear in mind that it should
be of a size that can be conveniently carried in an7
automobile and is not too clumsy to handle. The
name of the department supplying the kit could be
either stencilled or painted on the outside of the
canvas bag or wooden box.

Picnic Equipment Kit
To: (Stock Clerk, Caretaker, etc.)

o a o o o u a a o a o u . . . . u - - . - u . u . . . . . - - u - . u o a o a . u . o - - u u - u - - . o a - . a o o o o u u . u u a . o u . - . . - u I o u i

o o a o . . u . u u u . . . . u - - - u u . - u u . . . . . - - u - u - - u o u a u a o a o a a o a . . . u . . . . . u . . . . . . . . . u . . a o o.

. . - . . u g - . - . - . . . - . u - o . o u o a o . . o u o - . - u u o a a - a o a o o a o a a o a a . . a . u . u . o a . a u . . . . . u a o u o o I u o~

o o o a o a o o . o u . u u . o . c . u u a a . . . u . . . . . . . u . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . u u g . . g . . . . g . u . . g . . g - - - o c.

o - o a u - o o u - a . . . o a - o a o a o . . u o - . . - o o a - a a o u - - . . I o o - o a a - a a a a o - o o a - - - o u o u o - I - u g u - u q .-

 
 

(organization)
EEPARTNEHT -:——— ............................................................................. ..,
 Picnic Kit N0. ..................................... ...;
containing the following equip-
ment:
Number Number
Activity Article Value (Checked Out) (Checked In)
Baseball (regular)
Balls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ ( ) ( )
Bases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ( ) ( )-
Bats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )‘
Catchers’ Chest
Protectors . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )-
Catchers’ Masks . . . . . . ( ) ( 
Catchers’ Mits . . . . . . . ( ) ( t
Softball
Balls .............. .. ( ) ( )
Bases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )
Bats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )
Horseshoes
Shoes (large) . . . . . .. ( ) ( )
Shoes (small) . . . . . .. ( ) ( )
Small sledge . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )
Stakes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )’
Track and Field
Batons (relays) . . . . .. ( ) ( )
Start and Finish Tapes ( ) ( }
Stop Watches . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )
Tape Measures . . . . . .. ( ) ( t

PICNIC SERVICES

Number Number

Activity Article Value (Checked Out) (Checked In)
Volley Ball

Balls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )

Nets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )

Standards . . . . . . . . . . .. _ ( ) ( )
Equipment for Other Picnic Games

Basketballs . . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )

Bean Bags . . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )

Bean Boards . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )

Burlap Sacks .’ . . . . . . . ( ) ( )

Ca'geballs . . . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )
Paddle Tennis Kits . .. ( ) ( )
(4 paddles, 3 balls and net)
Quoits
Rope Quoits . . . . . .. ( ) ( 
Rubber Quoits . . . . . ( ) ( )
Standards . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )
Ropes for Tug-of-War ( ) ( )
Soccer Balls . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )
Miscellaneous
Alphabet Cards (2 sets) ( ) ( )
Balls (Rubber) . . . . . . ( ) ( )

Blocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )

Clotheslines . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )

Clothespins . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )

Hammers . . . . . . . . . . .. ( ) ( )

Jump Ropes . . . . . . . .. ( ) ( )

Lacing Needles . . . . .. ( ) ( )

Megaphones . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )
Pumps (InHation) . . . . ( ) ( )
Song Sheets . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )
Straps, Leather . . . . .. ( ) ( )
Swatters . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( ) ( )

The Stock Clerk will check the articles when the kit

_ is returned and list any missing articles. The depositor

will be charged with their value. Minimum deposit of

_    is required.
By .................................................................................................... ..
Picnic Bureau
MEMORANDUM
Equipment Received Equipment Returned
Date .............................................. .. Date ......................  ..................... ..
(Signed) .................................. .. (Signed) 
(Checker)
Deposit fee of $.........received Deposit fee of  ....returned
by .................................................... .. by ................................................. ..
(Checker)
Date Date 
NOTE: The kit may be picked up any week day be-
tween A. M. and  M. It should be returned

on the day after use if borrowed during the .week. If
borrowed on Saturday, return on Monday morning.

Responsibility for the pick-up and safe return of equip—
ment rests with the organization holding the picnic.

Picnic Leader
In some instances recreation departments have

'provisions whereby experienced directors are

available for large community picnic gatherings.
Sometimes these services are free but more often
it is imperative that a charge be made. The De-
partment of Playgrounds and Recreation, Los
Angeles, handles picnic programs at a nominal
cost of $2.00 for the first two hours, and $1.00
for each hour thereafter.

233

A suggested request card for picnic leadership
follows.

Request for Picnic Leader

Organization ........................................................................................... ..
(Name)

Address ................................................................ ..Telephone ................ ..
Time ..................................................................... ..Hours................. . 
Place

Type of Picnic ........................................................................................... ..
Estimated Attendance ........................................................................... ..
Ages and Sex of Participants .......................................................... ..
Requested by .............................................................................................. ..
Address .......................................................... .. Telephone ...................... ..

Picnic Leader Sent .................................................................................. ..

Estimated Attendance ............................................................................ ..

Remarks ......................................................................................... ., ............... ..

. . . . o - . . . . . . . . . . - u - - u u - u u u - . u . . - n u . . u - a . . . - . . . o . . . . . . . . . . . . - - - - - - - - . u . - - - - - u o n u a o a o I a . . o I . o . . . . . u - u u - . u - u u g - . u . . . g I u u o o o g . o o - I - .-

. . . . . . . . - - - - . . . u - . . . . . . . o . - . . . . . . . . . . . . . u - u - u - u . . u - - u . . . . . . . . . a - o - a o . o a o o a . . . n . . n . u u - u - u - u u u u - u - - u u - g . . . - - - - u o u . . a o a . . a o u - a - u u II

Where a specialist has been detailed to meet by
appointment with picnic chairmen or committees
a charge is generally not made, providing the
meeting is held at the leader’s office or some place
convenient for him.

In every case where help is given to individuals
and organizations, it is advisable that some record
should be made of any important conferences, and
if at all possible, copies of the final picnic pro-
gram should be secured. Such material will
always help in meeting similar requests. It may
also be studied to avoid certain duplications in ar-
ranging programs in future years for the same
organization.

If a picnic leader is assigned to an outing it is
highly important that he has an opportunity to see
the information on the leader request card. No
doubt he will want to call the picnic chairman for
further instructions and to check on certain de-
tails. When he has the needed information he can
then proceed in outlining the actual picnic pro-
gram, arranging for needed supplies and equip-
ment, including material that is to be bought by
the organization sponsoring the outing. A few
such supplies which are more widely used in pic-
nic programs are listed in the chart suggested
here.

(Continued on page 251)

uC)ld River"

HE NATIONAL Cash Reg-
Tister Company at Day—

ton, Ohio, has under way
a comprehensive recreational
project which will eventually provide facilities for
outdoor sports and recreation in an ideal setting
for thousands of the company’s employees and
their families. Situated immediately adjoining
the factory buildings, the deve10pment is taking
form on 205 acres of company-owned ground
called “Old River.”

The ultimate program calls for a gun club, for
trap and skeet, a rifle range, picnic groves, la—
goons for boating and canoeing, athletic fields for
baseball, recreation ball and tennis, a wading pool,
several playgrounds for children, a swimming
pool and a recreation building for winter actin-
ties. Ground work for most of these activities is
well under way, with the gun club already in use.

The company's purpose in clearing this land
is two-fold: to provide recreation for the thou—
sands of workers, and to beautify this unused
property which lies at the southern gateway to
the city of Dayton.

Although the company had been planning for
some years to make practical use of this extra
acreage, about a year ago conditions arose that
made it advisable to begin deveIOpment of the
tract. Patterson Boule-

By ANDY WEAVER

Recreation Director
The National Cash Register Company

erty, was to be widened,
parked, and corrected as to
curvature, thus beautifying
the entrance into Daytoii
from the south. The company felt that this would
be a highly economical time to clean up and beau-
tify their own “front yard" and at the same time
inaugurate their long planned recreational de—
velopment. '

Preliminary surveys supported the belief of the
ofhcials that this area of ground formed a natural
setup for a recreation center or park. A promi-
nent landscape architect was called in and, follow-
ing numerous conferences and surveys of the
“Old River” area, the company decided to begin
work.

lnitial activity involved clearing out the weeds
and underbrush in the area of the old channel of
the Great Miami River. The State and Federal
Highway Departments needed approximater
153,500 cubic yards of fill for the new Patterson
Boulevard construction, and the National Cash
Register Company consented to give them this,
provided it was scooped out of the old river chan-
nel. As a result, the company’s plan for a beau-
tiful lagoon entirely surrounding the “Old River?
park area, took form at little cost to the company
through this method of clearing out the channel.

The wooded areas
have been cleaned of

vard (otherwise known
as U. S. Highway 25)
adjacent to this prop—

In the center background a swimming pool is under
construction. The woodlands beyond will contain

the picnic groves. The small building in the ex-
treme background is the NCR Gun Club building.

undergrowth and road-
(Continued on page 252)

 

 

The Playground Newspaper

HE PLAYGROUND news—
I paper kills a number of

fine birds with one stone.
Not only does it stimulate
interest in playground ac-
tivities among playground
children and their families
and friends but — if the
paper is gotten out by the children themselves in
so far as possible—it gives them a variety of
highly valuable and enjoyable experiences.

The worst kind of a playground paper—the
kind prepared wholly by the directors—may be
the handsomest to look at. The best kind of a
playground paper may evidence occasional de-
partures from adult
standards, but if the true
playground spirit is
there, if the editorials
show that the children

are learning sportsman— RF" ‘2‘?" R'P'x'

ship and cooperation ; if Nags Nuts spas
_ send an“ Stud Em";
the news stories reveal Bataan sum-.1.

happiness and growth
in skills and sports—the
paper is a success.

Three Methods Possible

The playground paper may be handled in three.

ways: (I) it may be one general paper to which
the various playgrounds contribute their news;
(2) each playground may have its own paper on
which mimeographing or other typographic work
is done at a central office; (3) the entire produc-
tion of the paper may take place at the play-
ground itself.

One General Paper. By the first method, the
paper is usually issued weekly or bi-weekly. Some—
times it is a special sheet in one issue of a city
newspaper. This method requires a joint staff of
representatives from the different playgrounds.
There are various ways of appointing this staff.
One way is to have each playground represented
by a playground editor, with the office filled anew
every two weeks on the basis of highest amount
of accepted material. These playground editors
constitute the staff of the paper and are responsi-
ble for preparing c0py and' editing it. They meet
regularly in a central place. The general staff

A playground paper stimulates
interest in the activities of
the playground, gives child-
ren a variety of enjoyable ex-
periences, and is great fun!

Edt‘l'cv- .
Chief tOI'lal board or the pro-

Consult
Edt‘i’oc-

Egan-m1 Uzprl’yggf Business Dagnm't W
CAI-nets T

W

m-

One method which is sometimes followed in
organizing the staff of a playground paper

elects, every two weeks, its
editor-in-chief and assistant
editor. (In order to start
the season, the first play-
ground editors may be ap-
pointed by the directors.)
For this type of paper, i1-
lustrating by half-tones is
often possible. All playground children are in-
vited to contribute articles which go to the cur-
rent playground editors of the respective play-
grounds.

Paper Centrally Printed. By the second method
of publication, each playground may have its own
paper, on which mimeographing or other typo-
graphic work is done at
a central office. The edi-

duction department
from each playground
paper goes to the cen-
tral office, taking along
the stencils, and runs
off the copy on the ma-
chines there. This method
effects economies, in many
cases, which make it advis—

yéld' Markov-ti) rs

able to use it.

Each Paper Produced on Its Own Playground.
By the third method, the entire production of
the playground paper takes place at the play—
ground itself. This method — from both the edu-
cative and interest angles—is usually the most
worth while if it is at all practicable. It heightens
the children’s interest and understanding by en-
abling them to see each step of the entire project
and to participate in larger measure in the actual
work. There is time enough later on in life for
the efficiency that results from industrial mass
production. Creative experience through acquired
skills is what the children need now. Let them
have the fun of experimentation even if results
are not perfect. The home-grown paper may be
handwritten and posted on the bulletin board, or
it may be typewritten; or a secondhand, hand-
power mimeograph or a hectograph may be secured
inexpensively. Type printing will be, in most cases,
out of the question. But in playgrounds where
typesetting is a year-round activity, this method

235

236

may be employed. This rather informal play
ground paper will probably not come out very
often—twice a season is a good objective. Try to
have it come out on the occasion of some festival
or gala event at which parents and friends are
present. It can be passed around them.

Organization Hints

In organizing the board of editors it is a good
plan to designate a member of the playground
staff as consulting editor. He exercises the direc-
tional function and final authority. This indi-
vidual should use his power lightly and should not
quench the literary spark too readily even if it
seems to burn, at times, with a peculiar gleam. A
good consulting editor will try to preserve intact
the always precious spirit of a contribution. Don’t
blue-pencil too quickly such pleasant vagaries as
the following superscription to a poem by a Rome,
New YOrk, child:

written by Dominic Rossini
for the first time in his life

The consulting editor himself may prepare oc-
casional announcements, editorials and news

material.

Under the consulting editor comes the editor-
in-chief (elected by the playground members for
each issue of the paper), who presides over three
departments: editorial, business and production.
The names of the entire staff should be printed in
the paper if space permits.

In the editorial department are the reporters
and the art director, who may be appointed by a
committee consisting of the consulting editor, the
editor-in-chief and the assistant editor. General
contributors, too, are encouraged to write for the
paper. Their names are signed to contributions
and those who do outstanding work may become,
in the course of events, reporters. There should
be a special sports reporter; the rest of the re-
porters—and their number is determined by the
size of the playground—cover news, social events,
and sometimes editOrials. If desired, special re-
porters may be assigned to certain groups like the
'boys’ harmonica band, nature club, and girls’ dra-
matic club. Reporters may enjoy having press
badges. The art work, if any, of the home-grown
playground paper, will be confined to line draw-
ings which can be reproduced on the hectograph
or on the mimeograph. Children will enjoy mak-
ing amusing sketches of Bill Jones knocking a
homer or of Jim Bonczak in the pie-eating con-

THE PLAYGROUND NEIVSPAPER

test. They can also draw the ornamental headings
for columns such as Sports.

1'

l

The function of the business department of a '

playground paper is perhaps not so large as that,
of the other departments. It is not advisable to
try to make a playground paper self—supporting
by sending out children to solicit advertisements.
Nor is there a circulation to be built up, since the
paper should be distributed free. The expense of
the playground paper should be taken care of
along with other operational expenses. The busi—

ness department is really no more, then, than a;
distribution department, but it can do its work

efficiently. The business manager heads a corps
of carriers who distribute the papers at the en-
tertainment or festival, or stand at the playground
gates handing out the papers to children as they
leave the playground. Younger children may
serve in this department.

The production department sets the paper up in
type, if printing presses are used. Cutting a
mimeograph stencil, which is difficult work, is
probably beyond the ability of the average play-
ground child. The work will usually have to be
done by a staff member. The children may run
the copy off on the mimeographing machine. If a
hectograph is used, the entire production may be
done by the children, under supervision.

Helps for Editorial Staff

To help the editorial staff along its way to
glory we are adding a few suggestions adapted
from records of various playgrounds. The gen-
eral duties of the staff are as follows: Each edit
tor-in-chief makes assignments of stories to re-
porters: he keeps a record of all stories handed
in, with name of writer and title. The editor-in-
chief posts notices on bulletin boards inviting all
children to contribute material, telling where to
turn copy in, stating the dead line. He also has
charge of making up the paper. The assistant
editor aids in the above work and may take one
or more of the jobs under his charge. The editor-
in-chief and the assistant editor confer with the
consulting editor before copy goes to press. Re.-
porters gather news items, write them plainly and
correctly, putting a title or “head” of not more
than five words on each story and turning in copy
before the designated dead line. Have a dictionary
on hand, if possible. There’s nothing like edi-
torial responsibility to drive even a child to the
dictionary!

 

 

THE PLAYGROUND NEWSPAPER 237

Meetings are held of entire editorial staff once
when plans are talked over; once when the copy
is in and paper is being made up; oftener, if
desired.

The consulting editor at each meeting when a
new staff comes in may discuss the following

points:

I. What is news? Any unusual thing that hap-
pens that is of special interest to a large group.
In the case of a playground paper, news is con—
fined to subjects concerning the playground and
those who attend it.

2. Contents of paper: A playground paper will
have some or all of the following parts: calendar
of events; editorials; special news stories of com-
ing events, past events and other timely material;
sports; letters to editor; personal column (one-
sentence news items about members of the play-
ground. One playground paper titles this depart-
ment “The Snooper”) cartoons; humor and

riddles.

3. Headlines: They tell specifically one story. Use
the active voice, with strong verbs. Example
follows:

(weak) Szotak is First in Contest

(strong) Szotak \N ins Short Story Contest
The articles (a, an, the), the verb (be) and con-
junction (_ and) are omitted sometimes. Do not end
a line with a preposition or break a word at the
end of a line. Avoid negatives and repetition.

4. Reporting: The A B C’s of good reporting are
accuracy, brevity and clearness. Get all possible
information about your subject, then get it into
your story. Put the esssentials (who, when,
where and what) in first paragraph. In giving
names of children, use both first and second
names. Give two initials or first names of adults.
Write on one side of the paper only.

5. Editorials: Editorials can do four important
things: teach, attack, defend, and praise. Have
one at least in each issue and make it a good one.

'_ 6. Definitions of common reportorial terms: Story
—any news item. Lead —— first paragraph in a
story. Head—the title of a story as it appears in
. print. Copy—the written story as it comes from
the reporter. Deadline—the final time up to which
copy can be put in the paper. Dummy—a set of
,l PaSth-up sheets showing final arrangement for
printing.

7. Format: While a playground paper may be
produced in various styles, the most practicable is
usually the typewriter-size page with two columns

separated by a ruled line. Covers or entire paper
may be of tinted stock. Heavy enough stock is
selected that both sides of the paper may be utiliz-
ed. At the top of the front page is a decorative
heading with the title of the paper. At the bot-
tom of the heading is the volume number, date
and number. The copy is typed in the proper
width, then a dummy is made, pasting the typed
copy where it will look well (do not begin an
article too near the bottom of page) and allowing
spaces for drawings. The stencil is then cut by
the typist following the dummy. Sheets are
stapled together.

Visits to City Newspapers

A trip to one of the local newspapers will be
a treat in which the entire staff of the playground
paper should participate. Most city papers are pre-
pared for visits of this sort and make them very
enjoyable. Where a joint paper is published by all
playgrounds, or the paper is published as a part of
a city paper, a member of the newspaper staff will
sometimes meet with the children’s staff to assist
and instruct.

Getting Out a Paper Is Fun

The playground paper should be fun. It should
provide a major thrill to many a youngster in
whose veins the printers’ ink will begin to rise as
soon as he feels in his hand a stubby pencil and a
grimy sheet of ruled paper. Don’t mar this joy by
being too serious about things. There should be
no regrets over errors after everyone has done his
best.

The following poem by Anna Radliniski of Cran—
ford, New Jersey, shows perhaps certain lacks.
But do not famous poets lapse occasionally, too?
It’s the spirit that counts and we would say that
Anna has it. What do you think?

THE LINCOLN SCHOOL PLAYGROUND

A POEM

School is ended, happy are we

Now for Lincoln Playground we go free.
Now we are happy once more

For know of the fun we have in store.

Big John is ready for a game of tether ball.
Little Jane is thinking of building a sand wall.
Many are ready for the fun of flower making.
Everyone for a swing is waiting.

Why is that boy looking so happy.

Oh Boy! isn’t that home run snappy

The girls are making pocketbooks

Many there are that are snapped with hooks
Now for the tournaments, 1-2-3.

There are jack stones, horseshoes, hop scotch, see.
Miss Wheeler is our leader, the best yet.

She is always happy and for everything is set.

Larks in Latimer Street

SUCCESSFUL bazaar is
A not news. But a suc-
cessful bazaar that
has definite beauty and style is
news. And an open-air bazaar
held in the heart of a large city
is, at least, uncommon. So we consider the Larks in
Latimer Street, Philadelphia, worthy of mention.
Too, too often a bazaar or fair presents a me-
lange of palms, bunting and the inevitable crépe
paper—thrown together according to the fancies
of the chairmen of the various booths. This
hodge—podge is obviated, in the case of the Larks,
by the domination of one organization—the Cos-
mopolitan Club, whose membership bulks large in
artists, writers and such creative folk. It is a
committee of this club which dictates one general,
original scheme of decoration. Lest this be inter-
preted as usurpation of power (in view of there
being other cooperating groups) it should be
mentioned that this club assumes most of the
risks, does most of the work and in return takes
the gate receipts. The. other organizations in-
volved furnish
booths or spe-
cial features.
The set—up of
the Larks is
rather unique,
both as to back-
ground and par-
ticipants. First
you have Lati-
mer Street, a
charming nar-
row brick-pav-
ed street, lit at
night by the gas
lamps of old
Philadelphia.
On one side are
quaintold-fash-
ioned entrances,
high arched
(l o o r w a y s,
paned glass
windows; on
the. other side,

238

Experiments in sharing aesthetics
and in discovering neighborliness

By JULIA ANNE ROGERS

 

picturesque gateways and
brick-walled backyards.
These facades and back-
yards appertain to select clubs;
and to shops, studios and or~
ganizations of uniformly high
standard.

The idea of the Cosmopolitan Club to unite al‘]
of these groups in a street fair was a rather brave
one. The majority of bazaars of any importance
are held indoors or on the lawns of suburban
estates or public buildings. The club took a
chance on the weather, and a further chance in
plumping the fair right down in the center of
Philadelphia—among the apartment houses and
rows of brick dwellings, a stone’s throw from the
commercial arteries.

Tickets for the Larks were made available to
the public and charges were made for each special
attraction.

Success of the Larks may be attributed, conr
cretely, to the decorations and to the entertain—
ment. In 1035, the colors chosen were red and
white. Aides
were dressed as
Pierrots and
Columbines.
Barkers were
in pink hunting
coats. In 1936.
the Lark took
the form of a
Mexican fiesta.
The high, arché
ed doorways
were wreathed
in foliage and
flowers, in imi-
tation of the
decorations on
M e X i c a I}
churches. The
old iron ball—
conies were
h u n g w i t h
vines. One of

(Continued on
page 252)

Playground Beautification

ONE ARE THE DAYS in Long Beach when
i 6 children’s playgrounds were only
shadeless expanses of dusty ground
and the only grassy plots bore the sign
“Keep Off.” Playgrounds have come to
.mean far more than ball diamonds and athletic
fields, although these indispensable facilities for
modern youth have not been omitted. A four-
” year planting campaign is already showing notice-
i able results, and hundreds of trees and shrubs are
.growing luxuriantly in the typical California
. manner.
l Sheltered spots for table games and study,
'lshaded lawns where outdoor pageants and dra-
1 matic festivals may be held, arbors where lunches
’may be eaten under pleasant and restful condi-
ltions are provided. The lines of the beloved Long-
|fellow come to mind with a slightly new twist:
Beneath the spreading
chestnut tree the village
children play,” although
the tree is apt to be a
California pepper, syca-
more, or eucalyptus, and
perhaps .the word village
' should be changed to
avoid offending the dig-
nity of this community
of about 180,000!

The Long Beach Coun-
cil of Parents and Teach-
ers, which had previously

hsponsored several me-
morial tree—planting ex-
ercises on school prop-
erty, decided that school
playgrounds offered a
line held for a general
beautification p r o g r am .

I“

I

This picture, presenting
a view of a Long Beach
playground, shows a
number of newly plant-
ed trees and the way in
which they are protected

 

Long Beach is enthusiastic over the results
of its tour-year planting campaign, a suc-
cessful adventure in community c00peration

By LLOYD A. ROCHFORD

so this organization, in the spring of 1936, pur—
chased, planted and dedicated eighty-six trees.
The following year, encouraged by the success of
the first campaign, the P.T.A.’s enlarged their
program and planted almost two hundred trees
and many shrubs.

In 1938 interest in playground tree planting
reached a high point when trees planted On every
school ground in the system totaled 320—more
than the combined total of the two previous years.

(Continued on page 253)

i

2‘5

:li

.. _
h
u
n, - .
r— 1
n
- _ \
~ an L ‘ ' A .-.L-.-' ‘ -
.-. ‘ i . D,
" 'V‘r.‘ l
u I I -
_ ' A
. I. i F
- . ‘ -.
V ' It!” i
a ‘-
J >- I
{I
I ' n . o
t .

The Man Back of the Park Executives

ILL O. DOOLITTLE
Wis the Executive

Secretary of the
American Institute of
Park Executives and
the American Park So-
ciety. which will hold
its fortieth annual convention
September 18—21, in Philadelphia.

He is also the Managing Editor of that organiza—
tion’s monthly publication, Parks 8' Recreation.
This magazine has at all times conducted an ag-

gressive policy of constrUctive park

and outdoor recreation expansion 

and conservation of nature and
wild life. It has as its liter»
ary contributors many
of the leading profes—
sional men actively en-
gaged in park build-
ing and manage-
ment in all parts
of the country, em—
bracing all classi-
fications and
branches of park
administration.
During the twenty-
two years of its ex-
istence, Parks 8 Rec~
reation has been an in-
structive medium for the
exchange of ideas and ex-
periences among park men in
all phases of that large field of
public service, and its informative, in-
spiring, and beneficial influence may well be
credited in conjunction with other similar publi-
cations as being at least in good part responsible
for the progress accomplished in the park and
recreation movement which has made such tre~
nicndous advances during the past decade or two.
Mr. Doolittle was born in Painesville, Ohio,
and while absorbing the teachings of the local
public schools and special studies in forestry and
ornithology, his natural literary facility and in—
clinations found exercise and experience as the
young editor of a local daily newspaper. After
four years of service to his native commumty as

240

He serves parl< executives through their
professional organizations, edits their he

magazine, and helps them in innumerable
ways. We introduce Will 0. Doolittle!

By THEODORE WIRTH

   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 

City Forester and Su—
perintendent of Parks,
went to Northern
Michigan to pursue
further studies in for.-
estry and landscape
work. In 1913-14 he
taught silviculture, dendrology,
and economic ornithology in the
Forestry School—then located at Munising, Michi-

gan. We next find him in Minot, North Dakota,
where he established and administered that north.-

ern city’s well-conceived park system

 H from 1915 to 1925.

It was at the Louisville con.
 vention in 1920 that Mr,
'  Doolittle became identi-
 tied with what was at
3, that time the Ameri-

' can Association of
Park Superintend-
ents, and assumed
the duties of the
management of
the Association’s
quarterly publica-
tion. In 1921, at
the Detroit conven-
tion, a reorganiza-
tion was effected
changing the name to
the American Institute of
Park Executives and cre-.
ating the American Park So-j
ciety. Under his ambitious, effici-i
ent, and Untiring leadership and perse-.f

verance, Parks 8' Recreation has weathered many
storms and financial embarrassments — which
would have brought about a foundering under a
less experienced and optimistic helmsman. I
After resigning the Superintendency at Minot,
Mr. Doolittle was in Rockford, Illinois, where
Parks 8 Recreation has since been published:
From 1926 to 1937, he held the office of Super-
intendent of the Tulsa, Oklahoma, park system
from which he resigned to give full time to the
office of Executive Secretary of the Institute and
his editorial work. He has therefore been all

(Continued on' page 254)

Nation-Wide Interest
in the

National Recreation Congress

i ATION-WIDE INTEREST is now being centered
N on the coming National Recreation Congress

in Boston October 9-13. Seldom, if ever,
has there been such a deep sense of the import-
ance of dealing with the leisure of the American
people on an adequate local, state and national
Lbasis.

The cooperative nature of the Congress is

gclearly indicated by the individuals and organized
groups that are participating. A number of col-
lege presidents have agreed to share, in panel dis-
cussion, their concern and best thought on the
larger problems of a growing leisure. Recreation
Nexecutives from all parts of the country have sent
'questions for discussion and suggestions for
.Congress procedure.
u Industrial leaders, management and labor, are
'cooperating in enlarging this phase of the pro-
,gram. Three full periods will be devoted to in-
dustrial recreation. Publicists, government offi-
cials and educators have sent helpful suggestions.
A Youth Section will emphasize the needs of
youth and methods which they and others are
.1sing to meet those needs. A Model Yacht Re-
igatta in the Charles River Basin, put on by Con-
;gress enthusiasts, will be a novel event.

It is significant that such organizations as the
National Industrial Conference Board, the re—
search body for American industry, and the Office
‘)f the Kiwanis International will have special
*epresentatives in the Congress to study the whole
ield of recreation in relation to special new Cle-
'elopments within their own organizations.

Those expecting to attend the Congress should
give notice at the earliest possible date. Hotel ar—
‘angements should be made
lirect with hotel authorities and
.s soon as possible.

Topics for Group Discussion

The major subjects for dis-
:ussion in the Congress are in-
dicated in the following outline:

l

Topics and speakers for the gen-
eral sessions of the Congress will
be announced in a later issue of
Recreation. The August number of
the magazine will tell of some of
the many places of historic inter-
est which those attending may
visit in Boston and its environs.

From the point of view of subjects or problems

What are the foundations for belief in rec-
reation?

What is the relation of recreation to democracy?

Training recreation workers.

Use of Federal and state facilities and leader-
ship by local communities.

Agency relationships in serving community
recreation needs.

Clubs and their problems in the recreation
program.

Planning and designing recreation areas and
facilities.

Progress in the wider use of schools for
recreation.

Seminar on administrative problems in recrea-
tion.

Public relations in recreation.

Pet Ideas of 1939.

Recreation problems of smaller cities—5,000 to
30,000 population.

From the point of view of special groups
Recreation boards members look at their job.
\Vhat youth wants and how they can help to

get it.
Providing recreation for rural America.
How can we better meet the recreation needs
of girls and women.
Industry faces the recreation needs of workers.
Recreation and the churches.
Recreation planning and housing developments.

From the point of view of the recreation program
A series of meetings to discuss progress,
method, and plans for further enrichment of the
recreation program through:

Music Arts and Crafts
Drama \V inter Sports
Nature Co—Recreation
Gardening Day Camps
loating

Over forty different meetings
(Continued on. page 254)

241

You Asked for It!

Question: Will you give us suggestions for
events for special days on the playground, includ-
ing some novelty events which will attract outsid-
ers who may be reluctant to enter into the regular
playground prOgram? What preparation is neces-
sary for these events? '

Answer: On some playgrounds an entire day
is set aside for a major project. Often several
days or weeks are necessary for the preparatory
work; on the other hand, for some of the events
little or no preparation is needed. As far as pos-
sible the children on the playground should have
a share in the planning.

Pirate Day

Costume effects: eye patch, bandana for head,
belt sash, wooden sword.

Pictures of pirates and ships to cut out and
color.

Games and athletic contests between rival pirate
bands.

“Capture the Flag” may be played.

Treasure hunt.

Song such as those in Gilbert and Sullivan’s
“Pirates of Penzance” and sea chanteys.

Indian Day

Costume effects: feathered head-dress, bow and
arrows, inner tube moccasins, burlap outfit,
tomahawk, wigwams.

Parade with tom-toms beating (use gasoline
cans).

Selection of chief by skill contests.

Inter-tribal races, games.

Indian dances and songs.

Bow and arrow shoot at enlarged picture of
bear pinned to baseball backstop.

Bead making, basketry and pottery making by
handcraft classes in costume.

Tell Indian legends and dramatize them.

Wild West Show—Cowboy Day—Rodeo

Costume effects: chaps, spurs, hats, bandanas,
wooden guns, rubber holsters, covered wagons.
Parade with covered wagons.

Hobby horse races, roping, lassoing.

Cowboy songs. Each team or group of children
should have its own ranch name, brand and
song.

Activities to represent bulldogging, bronco bust-
ing, racmg.

Target Day

All sorts of targets—things to aim at, areas to
bat to, circles to throw at, and holes to roll balls
into—may be used in a Target Day. Each

242

child's score should be recorded for each event
and the scores be totaled to determine the high-
point winner of the day. A good target event
is a small alley where balls may be rolled to
knock down blocks of wood (as nine-pins) that
are dressed up like dolls.

Special Events (requiring little preparation)
Treasure Hunt

((1) Scatter papers of several colors. each color
with a different score value. The person
getting the highest score from the papers,
which he Ends, wins. Also scatter hve to,
ten special shapes of paper (as stars) to be
exchanged for treasure.

(b) Clues are posted at various locations. one
clue leading to another and finally to the
treasure. Have two teams, each following
a different line of clues if the group is
very large.

Peanut Hunt

While children are assembled in a room, pea-
nuts or colored papers are hidden about the
grounds. Children are divided into teams each
having an animal name, as cow, dog, etc. The
captain of each team is the only one who may
pick up the papers or peanuts but the team
members can fInd them and call the captain’s
attention to them by making the sound of their
animal. This creates much noise and keen ex-
citenient.

\

Girls' Newspaper Party

Provide plenty of pins and newspapers. Girls
work in pairs, one acting as model while the
other fashions a paper dress on her. Choose a
best costume.

Millinery fashion shown: each girl makes a hat"

out of newspaper and pins. Paper plumes,

flowers, ribbons may be made.

Games with newspaper:

(al Each child with a sheet of newspaper and
a pencil tries to find all letters of the alpha-
bet, circling them as she finds them.

(1)) Blindfolded, two girls sit on fioor grasping
right hands. Each has a roll of newspaper
with which she tries to swat the other girl.

Paper Turtle Race

Cardboard turtle figures, 12 x 8 inches. are
strung on separate pieces of string, 10 feet
long and attached at one end to the lowest rung
of a chair. The player tugs at the end of the
string which movement causes the turtle to ad—

vance along the string. The turtles are raced to
(Continued on page 254)

a!

A Library Service for

 

 

Picture by Evelyn Young in "Chinese Babies,” Tientsin Press

WORLD AT PLAY

THE Playground Lib-
brary Service of Har-
risburg, Pa., is co-
operating with the De-
partment of Parks and Public Property in offer-
ing to the children of the city as part of the sum—
mer playground program a book-loaning service.
Three visits weekly are made by a librarian with
a truck. Books may be borrowed by any child who
is a member of the library. Those who have not
joined before are able to do so at the playgrounds.
Notices telling when the library truck will visit

Playgrounds

the playgrounds are posted on the bulletin board.

WORD has been re-
ceived from William
Arthur Ward of
Liverpool that if “the
Access to Mountains Bill” becomes a law it will
bring to an end a half century of agitation and
struggle on the part of ramblers and other out-
door folk of Great Britain for the right to walk
on the uncultivated mountains and moorlands of
their native land. Many of the ramblers’ clubs
are greatly opposed to a clause in the bill which
makes it a criminal offense for people to be found
walking intentionally on land to which access has
not been granted, whether they commit any
damage or not. As the law now stands, a person

For the Hikers of
Great Britain

 

cannot be prosecuted for the mere act of trespass,
i. e., walking on someone else’s land “for air or
exercise” unless in the course of such trespass he
wittingly or unwittingly damages property such as
game preserves, crops, and hedges. In spite of
the new penal clause, which ramblers claim will
create a new criminal offense where none existed
before, the general feeling is that the bill repre-
sents the best possible compromise at present
available between the interests of the landed pro—

prietors and the general public.

 

THE dads’ and moth—
ers’ clubs, it was stated
in the 1938 annual re-
port of the Recreation
Commission of Alton, Illinois, did excellent work
last summer in making many improvements on the
playgrounds. Retaining walls, bleachers, Hood-
lights, score boards, shelters, and other facilities
were erected and special equipment was purchased
such as chairs, fans, and tables.

Dads’ and Mothers’
Clubs Are Helpful

 

ABOUT 250 bovs and
girls are receiving in-
struction in harmonica
playing through the
program of the Bureau of Recreation of Dayton,
Ohio. In addition to regular class instruction, the

243

Harmonicas Popular
in Dayton, Ohio

 

244 WORLD AT PLAY

Civic Harmonica Band has been enlarged to sev-
enty members. During the year this group gave
fifty-one concerts before local groups. Instru-
mental instruction has been broadened to include
ocarinas and celestephones. Students have been
taught to make these instruments. It has been
found that in casting 0carinas it is possible to
secure a very true tone. The celestephone, which
is a glass xylophone, is an experiment in which
the children have been greatly interested.

A Toy Loan Library at Wichita Falls—The
large second floor of a downtown building in
Wichita Falls, Texas, has been turned over to
\VPA, which is opening some of the rooms for
recreational activities and others as offices. The
space is also taking care of a new toy loan library
in operation for a number of months which has
the support of the various women’s clubs which
with the Boy Scouts helped to bring in about
1,800 toys. On April Ist 745 children had regis-
tered as borrowers.

British Youth Hostels—In the nine years of
its existence the Youth Hostel movement in Great
Britain has made remarkable progress, according
to Mr. William Arthur Ward of Liverpool. There
are now approximately three hundred hostels in
England and Wales and about sixty in Scotland,
with a smaller number in Ireland. The member-
ship has reached the 100,000 mark and is grow-
ing daily. The movement has its national head-
quarters, but the management is in the hands of
regional organizations with well defined areas
which cover the entire country. To meet the needs
of the constantly expanding membership, new
hostels are being opened in localities not already
provided with them whenever suitable sites can
be secured. The hostels are usually located in the
most picturesque parts of the country where walk-
ing can be freely indulged in, as well as at the
seaside and in cities with special historic associa-
tions such as Chester, Stratford—on-Avon, and
W inchester. Those in Scotland are located amid
the finest scenery of the Highlands, and in North
Wales there is a notable group of seven hostels

forming “the great mountain circle” round the
Snowdon massif.

In August an international conference and
youth rally will be held in Britain’s first national

forest park at the head of Loch Long on the Firth
of Clyde.

Career Museums—John \V. Higgins of Wor—
cester, Massachusetts, an honorary member of the
National Recreation Association, has suggested
that industries might well institute trade museums
in their plants which young people may visit who
are choosing their life careers as well as em-
ployees with their families. First-hand informa-
tion regarding trades and working conditions in,
factories, he points out, will raise the standard of
workmanship and pride on the part of both the
visitors and the factories of any community. Such
an industrial museum at the plant of the VVor-
cester Pressed Steel Company has attracted
10,000 visitors a year for the past decade.

Chicago’s Spring Festival of Music—On May
7th, six hundred children took part in the annual
spring festival of the Civic Music Association of
Chicago. All winter these children had been
studying folk songs and a festival cantata by
Mozart, and with but one joint rehearsal, ac-
companied by the Civic Orchestra, they sang the
entire program from memory. The festival pro-
gram is a concrete demonstration of what is be-
ing accomplished in the children’s singing classes
maintained by the association.

‘0-

Suggestions for Playground Scrap Books—

Friendship, memory or autograph book, picture
books.

A collection of drawings, paintings and mounted
cut-out pictures, jokes and funny stories.

The imaginary history of a friend told by the ar—
rangement of magazine pictures.

A model home made from magazine furniture
pictures.

Game books, cook book, animal book.

Nature book with mounted fiowers and leaves,
bird feathers, pictures.

The days we celebrate; sport clippings; interest
ing costumes.

From “Our 1939 Children”; Department of Parks
and Public Property, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

A Recreation Center for Wichita Falls——
Plans have been made for the construction of a?
community center in Wichita Falls, Texas, t0
cost $60,000. Of this amount $15,000 was raised I
by public subscription to serve as the city’s tribute.
to a W'PA project. Most of this money was:
given by one public—spirited citizen. I

3

WORLD AT PLAY

Some of America’s New Recreation Facili-
ties—From July. 1935 through June 30, 1938,
according to a report issued by WPA workers
enrolled in this department of the Federal gov-
ernment have through their labor made important
additions to many fields of recreation. They have
constructed 5,486 recreation buildings, built ad—
ditions to 296 more, and improved 3,546 existing
buildings. Of these new structures, 215 were
auditoriums. 974 stadiums and grandstands, 497
gymnasiums, and 3.800 miscellaneous in type such
as pavilions and bathhouses. A total of 1,787 new
athletic fields were built and 1,504 were improved.
No fewer than 1,067 new parks with a total
acreage of 32,559 were constructed; 4,232 exist-
ing parks were improved, and 110 were enlarged.
Playgrounds to the number of 1,594 were con—
structed, while 5,010 were improved.

Another important phase of the program was
the provision of safe and sanitary bathing facili—
ties. During this period WPA workers construct—
ed 471 new swimming pools and improved 225.
while for small children 440 wading pools were
built. and 60 more improved. For the golf en—
thusiasts VVPA crews built 143 new courses and
improved 214 existing courses. Other additions
to the nation's recreation facilities included 4,582
tennis courts. 728 handball courts, 1,142 horse——
shoe courts, 1,037 ice skating rinks, 41 ski jumps.
62 ski trails, 73 outdoor theaters, and 116 band
shells.

Junior Olympics at Norwalk, Connecticut—
Seven hundred boys and girls from the city play—
grounds took part in the Junior Olympics pro~
gram held last summer in N orwalk, Connecticut.
The program consisted of chinning the bar, slow

jump, potato races, dashes, target throwing, and
similar events.

Community Theaters in Austin, Texas—
T he plan evolved for the Community Theaters
embodied setting up organizations in each com—
munity of Austin where a sufficient interest was
displayed to give persons in the community an
opportunity to work in the field of drama. Each
Community Theater had a workshop division for
those interested in the technical angle of set build—
ing and design, lighting, make—up, properties and
costumes; an experimental division for those per-
sons who wanted to perform for their personal

' 245

   
     

  

EAGLE

R INGER
(Patented)

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DHTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND
line of horseshoes and accessories,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

0 Many Styles of Horseshoes

' Official Courts . Stakes

° Stake Holders 0 Carrying Cases
0 Rule Books 0 Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

 

the held of radio drama. Each Cormnunity
Theater elected the Board of Directors and select-
ed its own director from persons who were in—
terested in directing without salary. All of the
theaters sent three delegates to the Central Com—
munity Theaters Council which met once every
three months to give aid in solving problems
which arose and to schedule those activities of

the separate theaters so as to prevent conflict of
dates.

Church Recreation Institute—Over 500 Dal-
las County Baptists were enrolled for a Church
Recreation Leadership School held in Dallas,
Texas,“ January 30——February 3, 1939, under the
sponsorship of the Dallas Baptist Association, ac-
cording to Miss Uleta Ray Williams, a recreation
leader in that city. Ten courses covering a wide
range of recreational activities were offered at
each evening’s session, including such topics as

the planning, financing and promotion of church
recreation programs.

Camp Fe-ne-ho— Underprivileged children
of Toledo were given a chance to enjoy a real
camping experience last summer by the coopera-

246 A NEW ARBORETUM

tion of the Federation of Neighborhood Houses,
the Rotary Club, and the Works Progress Ad-
ministration recreation workers. The initiative
was taken by the WPA leaders. The Rotary Club
contributed $400 to make the camp possible. Each
of four participating neighborhood houses con-
tributed $20 toward the salary of the resident
VVPA worker who was also a trained nurse. Each
neighborhood house also agreed to pay 50¢ per
day for each camper and leader present in the
camp. Children who were able to do so paid $4.00
per week. Each participating organization pro-
vided its own transportation and leadership for
the groups it sponsored. Liability insurance for
campers and workers was shared by the various

organizations. The WPA provided two senior”

recreation instructors and two recreation attend-
ants. Very attractive camp awards were made by
camp instructors and campers from scraps of felt
fabric.

This was a unique form of cooperation made
possible by the line camping experience for a con-
siderable group of children who would otherwise
have been deprived of such experience.

A Strange Hobby!—One of the strangest
hobbies in the land is that of Paul Domke of
Ossineke, Michigan who, in his spare time, is
building a life—size menagerie of the monsters
that roamed this continent before the dawn of his-
tory. His “prehistoric garden” is located on U.S.
23, ten miles south of Alpena, on the shores of
Lake Huron. One of his “pets” on which he iS
now working is the Tyrranosaurus, a kind of
lizard, which lived 50,000,000 years ago and
measured fifty-three feet from his snout to his
tail. These creatures are being built in the midst
of a grove of hardwood trees and occupy only the
spare time of the creator. From I.M.A. News,
Flint, Michigan.

Students’ Hobbies Win School Credit—The
Superintendent of Schools in Dundee, Michigan,
states that with increasing leisure time for men
and women of the coming generation, instruction
in how to use this leisure becomes a function of
the school. “Accordingly,” says the Superintend-
ent, “we require that each student join some
school club—travel, camera, home economics.
handicraft, outdoor study, radio, dramatics, or
music study. Then each student is allowed about
a school hour a day to read about or practice his

hobby. The students are developing some worth-.

while interests which reflect in some cases in-

A New Arboretum

T HE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON is to have an
arboretum of 260 acres made possible by the
leasing of Washington Park to the University in
perpetuity by the city of Seattle. The city reserves
the right to the arboretum as a park and agrees as
funds are available to furnish water and lighting,
to police the area, and maintain the roadways.
The University has accepted administrative con-
trol and will have complete supervision of the
area, furnishing the technical staff for carrying
on scientific study and experiments. The Works
Progress Administration will furnish labor, a
Federal grant of approximately $800,000 having
been allotted as a relief measure. Fifteen per cent
of this sum will be used for necessary materials.
The Arboretum Foundation has been organized by
an advisory board appointed by the Governor, the
University of Washington, and the Mayor of
Seattle to promote the arboretum and to raise an
endowment, as well as funds for immediate use.
This is a nonprofit organization, state-wide in
scope, and open to all interested in the project.
Thus far over $11,000 has been furnished by the
Foundation to date.

Some of the outstanding features planned for
the arboretum include an Azalea Way, a sixteen
foot wide turf trail three-quarters of a mile long,
to be massed on either side with rhododendrons
and azaleas; alpine gardens consisting of ten acres
of ledges and alpine meadows; a two acre shady
dell comprising woodland gardens with a series of
small pools and cascades; a lilac collection and a
system of four lagoons which will afford an ex-
cellent opportunity for the development of water
gardens with an extensive collection of aquatic
plants. There will also be extensive collections of
magnolias, camellias, flowering cherries, and tree
peonies and exotics collected from Other lands. ‘

 

creased interest in other school studies, such as,
the study of chemistry with photography. Par-
ents are particularly interested in the fact that.
students amuse themselves at home with hobbies
instead of going out at night.” From Detroi‘l
Free Press. a I

Model Yachting

(Continued from page 207) II
head boats and two hundred A Class boats. 11;:

the boats in the twenty independent clubs an}
added, there are considerably over one thousanc

l

MODEL BOAT SAILING IN NEW YORK CITY’S PARKS

models. Over one hundred new boats are being
F built this year.

There is also an International Association of

iModel Yachtsmen called the “International Model

Yacht Racing Union.” It includes: Great Britain,
lFrance, Norway, Sweden, Belgium, Germany, and
‘the United States. The ofhcers are: President,
- John Black, 65 Pine Ridge Road, West Medford,
' Massachusetts; Secretary-Treasurer, William M.
éCarpenter, 65 Forest Road, Birkenhead, England.
. In New York City there is a Metropolitan As-
?sociation of nine clubs. The regattas are of sev-
i eral kinds:

I. Home club races between members of home
clubs for club championships; weekly, Sat-
urdays, and Sundays, and holidays. The
average is ten races in spring and ten in the
fall.

Interclub races between nearby clubs -— a

limited and equal number of boats from each

club. Special races.

3. Official regattas for championship of each
division at dates fixed by oflicials of division.

l 4. Invitation races—for special cups.

National championship regatta—yearly.

. International championship regatta yearly.

[0

CM."

Bibliography
“Year Book” of the Model Yacht Racing As-
-'sociation of America, Charles H. Farley, 87
Quincy Street, Medford, Massachusetts.
: “Sailing Rules,” John Black, 65 Pine Ridge
;Road, West Medford, Massachusetts.
j “Marblehead”—~— 50-800 class Rating Rules—
,John Black, 65 Pine Ridge Road, West Medford,
"Massachusetts.
“Marine Models,” 59 Fetter Leave, London,
lE. C., England.
i “Model Sailing Craft,” W. J. Daniels and H.

 

. Tucker, Marine Models, 52 Fetter Leave,
ondon, E. C., England.

("‘03

 

NOTE: Model yachting is to have an important place
at the Boston Recreation Congress. The Montclair Model
lYac‘ht Club in cooperation with the Boston Model Yacht
tClu’b will stage an invitation regatta on the Charles River
Basin, Thursday afternoon, October 12.

Hundreds of yachtsmen will sail their personally built
models in a special demonstration for Recreation Con-
.gress delegates. This is an unusual opportunity for model
yacht enthusiasts to demonstrate for recreation ofiicials a
fascinating leisure time activity that is rapidly developing
in America.

‘ A consultation service on model yachting will be avail—
‘able at the Congress.

 

 

247

—
BEN PEARSON

Bows AND ARROW!

DF EXCELLENCE

Used by leading universities and tournament
winners throughout America, Ben Pearson
Bows and Arrows are made by master crafts-
men, archers themselves, in America's largest
plant devoted exclusively to fine quality
archery equipment manufacture.

Get New Low Price Catalogue

Send for complete free interesting catalogue
and Manual of Archery on care of equip-
ment, correct shooting form, building targets,
tournament rules, etc.

BEN PEARSON. INC.

. Dept. R9

Pine Bluif. Ark.

Model Boat Sailing in New York
City’s Parks

(Continued from page 208)

boat, however, is permitted to compete in any one
of the other subdivisions of the contest, and often
triumphs over the more elaborate craft.

 

Another indication of the interest in model
boat sailing contests is the formation of children’s
clubs. In addition to these clubs there is an or-
ganization in Brooklyn for men from twenty-one
to seventy years of age whose chief hobby is the
sailing of model boats. Each day members of
this club can be found at the Prospect Park Lake
sailing their models. For these men a special con-
test is held annually at which prizes are awarded
to all winners. For successful model boat sailing,
the boy, girl or adult must consider wind condi-
tions and be able to properly adjust the helm and
set the sails to obtain the full value of the wind.
The events in the sail boat contests, which are
conducted in twenty designated locations in New
York City, include the following:

SAIL BOATS
Classes Classes
A—From 12” - 18” D—From 32” - 40”
B__ u 18” _ 25” E_ H 40” _ 50”
C——~ “ 25” - 32” F—Constructed models to 30”

MOTOR BOATS

Classes
G—Electric and spring powered
H—Steam and gasoline driven

Calling A—ll—ILandlubbers!

(Continued from page 215)

On their summer cruising the Mariners are fre-
quently offered the hospitality of friendly yacht
clubs or have the opportunity to visit on board
other boats. One of the first things they learn is

 

248 UNIVERSITY ATHLETICS

University Athletics

RESIDENT DODDs of Princeton, in speaking at
P the annual football banquet at the close of
this year’s season, made some pointed comments
on the place of athletics in the intercollegiate
world. As quoted in the New York Times,
he said:

“Athletics have a place in a university only
under two conditions. The first is that the oppor-
tunity to participate be extended on equal terms
to all undergraduates under scholarship require-
ments applying uniformly to all. This implies a
broad program of both intercollegiate and intra-
mural athletics. Every university which supports
an intercollegiate program is dealing unfairly with
the less gifted athletically unless it provides a
comprehensive intramural program as well.

“The second requisite which must be fulfilled
to justify intercollegiate athletics and football in
particular is complete absence of commercialism.
This condition is violated when athletes are sub-
sidized either by the university or by the mis-
guided supporters of the university. When subsi-
dies are paid the attempt is always made to keep
them secret. This fact alone is a confession that
something dishonorable has taken place. When
one is proud of such acts he does not go to such
' pains to cover them up.

“It is not necessary that our teams win all their
games. The Princeton family does not demand
undefeated seasons. Fundamentally they demand
that you play your games as intelligent sportsmen
and that places on the team shall always be won
in fair competition among amateurs playing not
for money but for sport.”—From New York
Times, December II, 1938.

the etiquette of such visits. Since even a casual
ferryboat rider may some day find himself a
visitor on a launch or yacht, it’s well to learn the
vocabulary and behavior of the perfect nautical
guest.

Suppose the hearty host exclaims, “Let’s go be-
low; stow your things in the starboard bunk. The
head doesn’t work very well. Then come topsides
and we’ll splice the main brace.”

A well-informed guest would go downstairs (a
phrase you’ll never use on shipboard), put his
things on the built-in bed at the right side of his
stateroom, and note that the door leading into
the bathroom (head) was closed. Then he’d go
into the main cabin and join his host in a drink
(splice the main brace).

If the party goes ashore in the dinghy, the
owner will direct the seating of his guests and
then get aboard himself. Landing, the guests
leave the boat first. And on your return, remem-
ber that owner and guests board the yacht from
the starboard side, crew use the port side.

If you can’t go a—sailing, you may take land
cruises in your imagination as the Girl Scout
Mariners do, planning your visits to strange port’s,
deciding what you’ll see and buy, and scudding
homeward at last in a spanking salty breeze (jf
your own conjuring. But you won’t stay. You’ll
be off again on another jaunt, real or fancied. The
spell of the moving waters will be upon you and
you’ll go !

Are you water-wise? Try your knowledge on

these true and false statements.
1. Dog Watch—the period in which the watch dog,
is the only member of the crew on deck. ’
Pipe down—keep quiet.
Dinghy—Ship’s mascot.
Charley Noble—Stove pipe.
Captain’s gig—is a dance aboard ship.
Painter—is a marine artist.
Brig—is the ship’s prison.
Galley—is the ship’s kitchen.
Foc’s’l—is the captain’s quarters.
10. Yawl—sailor’s southern accent.
A newer-s
1. False. A dog watch is one of two watches ex-
tending from 4 to 6 P. M. and from 6 to 8 P. M. II

PWNgsnewsv

2. True.

3. False. A dinghy is a small rowboat.

4. True.

5. False. A captain’s gig is the captain’s own boat. .
6. False. The painter is the rope in the bow of a '

boat for towing or making fast.
7. True.
8. True.

9. False. The foc’s’l is the raised deck of most
merchant steamers in the forward part of the. I

vessel.
10. False. A yawl is a kind of sailboat.

 

 

Swimming Pool Construction and
Operation '

(Continued from page 220) '
intelligently planned and conducted instruction.-

play, and healthful exercise and recreation shouli-l;
replace horseplay and rowdyism. With Americl
now leading the world in the number of pools:if
use, with federal funds making it possible f0.I
many municipalities to own and operate their 0W1
pools, it would seem an opportune time for ca;
tain educational institutions to add courses i
modern swimming pool operation and sanitation

to their curricula, thereby helping to ensure pr

 

 
 
 
 

 

A REGATTA OF THEIR OWN! 249

If You Remember

the story Grandma used to tell about Uncle Silas, who was
such a character, if you remember that story and love it . . .

Then You Should Read

YANKEE

the magazine for Yankees everywhere. We’ve heard it said
that New England is the only part of America where such

characters as Uncle Silas are left. If Uncle Silas and all like
him are dear to you—or if you are an Uncle Silas, you will
enjoy YANKEE, the magazine with the flavor of New England
sea captains, and Saturday afternoon in the general store.
Subscription price is three dollars a year.

Almanac . . . Swaps . . . Fiction

Pictures . . . Garden Talk . . . Leisure

Published by YANKEE, INCORPORATED, Dublin, N. H.

Advertising Offices
321 Park Square Building, Boston, Mass.

,per administration of pools, and maximum oppor-
.;tunity for the many thousands who lind in aquatic
irecreation great enjoyment and benefit.

' While the baths of Caracalla did not save Rome,
the modern pool undoubtedly will go a long way
toward disproving the ancient adage that history
repeats itself, and will aid materially in building
up rather than destroying this most enjoyable and
beneficial recreation.

(Continued from page 221)

l
i A Regatta of Their Own!

111 this latter class, especially. Among the crowd
massed in one spot on the shore was a family
: group, eagerly watching the entry of their son
land brother. “Bobby has been working on his
imotor boat for four months,” said his sister. “He
lcan’t think of anything else. And last night he
iactually said his prayers—a thing he hasn’t done
lfor months.” It is good to record that faith and
‘works were rewarded, for Bobby’s trim little
imotor boat darted out from the fleet that made
the start and shot through the waters, almost run—

lnmg down a competitor, to cross the line to win
second prize.

 

 

The making and sailing of boats gets into the
blood, and many 'who for several years have com-
peted in this big model yacht regatta were loath
to give up the sport. So a special open class was
held for boats built in previous years, and thus
high school boys were permitted to compete with
their old rivals. Only boats that won prizes in the
past were eligible to sail in this class, probably the
most keenly contested of any. These yachts.
mostly of the larger size, have had the benefit of
thorough seasoning. Schooled by their perform-
ance in previous races, correction of any minor
defects have been made. and it was a truly im-
pressive sight when the big, white sailed boats,
as though guided by the hand of the builder,
floated across the sunlit waters.

Doing their part to make it a perfect day, the
owners of the big bathhouse on the beach dis-
tributed to all of the 750 boys who had entered
boats tickets entitling them to ice cream cones.

Late in the afternoon, when all the heats had
been run, the crowd adjourned to the beach pa-
villion where the awards—sixty silver loving cups
—were given in the various classes.

After this came the inspection of all the prize
winners and runners-up to determine the best

250 RECREATIONAL ASPECTS OF STREAM POLLUTION

constructed boat in each class. For these addi-
tional trophies were awarded—a difficult task in-
deed, as all the shop instructors agreed. Last of
all, a group picture was taken, and as the sun sank
into the waters of the Pacific, carloads of tired,
happy and excited youngsters, most of them car—
rying their own yachts, boarded the electrics, or
were picked up by the family car, eagerly talking
of the events of the day and planning improve—
ments that would make their boat a winner in
next year’s regatta.

Recreational Aspects of Stream

PoHuHon
( Continued from page 222)
greatly retarded by the condition of the water.”

Another significant statement has been placed
in the public record by Representative A. Willis
Robertson of Virginia, Chairman of the Select
Committee on Conservation of Wild Life Re-
sources, in the report of his committee to the
Seventy-sixth Congress:

“Much is being said today of the strain under
which we are living in this age of high speed, and
the fact that people do not take necessary time to
rest and relax taut nerves; that our pleasures and
pastimes are too artificial and we are too depend-
ent upon mechanical devices for happiness. Much
unrest and unhappiness could be alleviated and
quiet, wholesome minds developed for more ef—
licient discharge of daily duties by a fuller knowl-
edge of and closer contact with the great outdoors
and nature’s children.”

Recreational benefits of a broad national pro—
gram of stream pollution abatement are so vast
and so far—reaching that they challenge imagina-
tion to the limit. When we think of the countless
thousands of miles of native streams into which
cities and industries dump their filth and wastes
and what it would mean to the people of America
to restore these streams to some semblance of
their natural beauty and usefulness, we begin to
visualize what pure streams would mean to this
country.

There is much misunderstanding about the
stream pollution problem. Many.people think that
it is necessary to reroute a river through some
mysterious process and purify its waters. Of
course, this is all wrong. The way to purify a
stream is to stop putting filth into it, and the
stream quickly clears. .The problem is largely one
of finance and education. Further scientific re-
search is necessary to enable certain industries to
deal with their wastes. Both cities and industries

need money to finance disposal works. And th
country needs education on the barbaric practic-
of dumping our'hlth into the water we use an:
drink. Friends of pure streams who want action a
the present session might well communicate thei

views to members of the Congress.

NOTE: A compact commission has been formed of rep
resentatives of the states of New York, Pennsylvanit
West Virginia, Kentucky, Ohio, and Indiana providin;
for cooDerative action on the part of these states i
cleaning up the Ohio and its tributaries. The West Vii
ginia and Indiana legislatures have already enacted th
necessary legislation to put the compact into effect. Chit
according to a statement recently received, will soon pas
the necessary legislation.

A City-Wide Swimming Program
(Continued from page 229)

were twelve acts depicting a day on board ship
Each group was colorfully attired in dress ant
uniforms that took full advantage of the great op
portunity to use color. The Banneker pagean
was a water circus featuring formation swimming
of boys and girls costumed as seals, beavers, ant
sea horses, in many interesting and difficult fig-
ures. Featured also were the colored A.A.U
fancy diving champions of the United States
Each act was presented by a different playgrount
or pool under the direction of Mrs. Katherine
Ladd of the Department of Playgrounds, in co-
operation with the \Velfare and Recreation As-
sociation and the Red Cross. '

The experience of last year demonstrated that
by coordinating their efforts the various agencies
concerned with operation of public swimming
pools can vastly improve their services. In \Vash-
ington we are determined to raise up a generation
of swimmers, and we think we have found the
way.

Romper Day's Silver Anniversary
(Continued from page 230)

This has been so thoroughly systematized and can
now be executed with such precision that the ten
thousand children and the adults present receive
in one hour’s time paper bag containers with a
delicious Trexler orchard apple, a hot dog, lolly-
pop and ice cream popsicle.

Many enterprising boys would scheme, as boys
always do, for extra refreshment tickets and the
General’s eyes would twinkle and he would
chuckle in amusement when he found a boy in
line the second time. His usual comment was,
“No one will have to take care of that fellow.i
He’ll take care of himself.”

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 251

A... _‘ a _

tribute to the joy of living and to the memory of
the man who cared about their happiness.

Picnic Services

(Continued from page 233)
l Supplies Needed

Articles Description Number

5
1 Balloons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

I Barrels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

,' Blindfolds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

4 Brooms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

- Candles . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . .' .............................. ..

‘ Candy kisses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Clothesline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 

Clothespins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Eggs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

l Fans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

- Hammers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

l Hoops . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Kiddie Cars. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Lemons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

, Marshmallows ........................... .. 
Match Boxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
j Nails . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Nipples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Old Clothes . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..' ......................... ..
Pans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Paper Bags . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Paper Cups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1' ..................... ..
Paper Plates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Rolling Pins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Scissors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Skipping Ropes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
tring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Tubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Umbrellas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Wooden Blocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
List prizes needed: 1.
2.
3.
etc.

Equipment needed for guessing contests: 1.
2.

3.

etc.

Treasures needed for hunts: 1.
2.
3

etc.

Information Files

Printed material, including books and bulletins
on games, stunts, other outdoor entertainments,
and sample picnic programs, are on tile in many
recreation department and other agency libraries.
These references are available to those planning
outing programs.

‘

As long as there are youths to play, so long will
the children of our city have one day of the sum-
mer set aside when they gather together to pay

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles )
of Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Public Management, April 1939

“Taking City Government Back to the People” by
Clarence 1E. Ridley and Orin F. Nolting

Camping World, April 1939
“Democracy in Camping” by Dr. Ira S. Wile

The Journal of Educational Sociology, April 1939

“Minorities, A Challenge to American Democracy”
by Maurice R. Davie

“Culture ConHicts and the Welfare of Youth” by
M. M. Chambers

“Culture ConHicts and Recent Intellectual Immi-
grants” 'by Clara W. Mayer

“Sharing Culture Values” by Rachel Davis-DuBois

School and Society, April 15, 1939

“Science Instruction in a Democracy” by Ordway
Tead

Playing F ields—The Quarterly Journal of the National

Playing Fields Association in London. Bound volume
has just been received covering issues from October

1936 to July 1938

School and Society, April 22, 1939

“Objectives of a Program of Extra-Curricular
Activities in High School”

Shore and Beach, April 1939

“Shores and Beaches in the National Scheme of
Recreation” by Conrad L. Wirth
“Model Forms of Bylaws as to Seashore”

Child Study, April 1939

“When the Family Vacations Together” by James
Lee Ellenrwood

Safety Education, May 1939

“How Safe is Swimming?” by F. C. Mills
“The Bicycle and the Law”

The Womans Press, May 1939

“Adolescence Sans Religion?” 'by Hedley S. Dimock
“Modern Trends in Camping” by Mary L. Northway

National Parent-Teacher, May 1939

“The President’s Message,” Frances S. Pettengill,
President, National Congress of Parents and

Teachers
“Straight Thinking versus Crooked” by Holland D.

Roberts
“qucation for Civic Responsibility” by Clarence A.
Dykstra

Journal of Physical Education, May-June 1939

“Suggested Minimum Desirable Practices in the
Operatlon and Maintenance of Swimming Pools”

Youth Leaders Digest, May 1939
“If I Had a Magic Wand” by Robert Moses

Parks and Recreation, May 1939
“Schools Aid in Combatting Park Vandalism”

National Municipal Review, May 1939

“Planning for Seven Million: Year One” by Phillip
B. Thurston

252 “OLD RIVER”

Beach and Pool, May 1939

“Modern Swimming Pools” by Walter J. Cartier
“Water Pageants and Stunts”

The American Observer, May 8, 1939
“Facts About Magazines—RECREATION”

School and Society, May 6, 1939

“Federal Aid to Education” by Charles H. Judd
“Democracy at Work in the Community” by W.
Carson Ryan

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, May 1939

“Health Factors in Attractiveness” by Anne Schley
Duggan
“How Is Your Professional Conduct?” by Harry A.

Scott .
“Planning an Elementary School Playday” by

Florence Owens

The Camping Magazine, May 1939
“Miscellaneous Campcraft Hints” 'by Barbara Ellen

Joy
“Fun in the Cnaft Shop” by Lester C. Smith

Scholastic Coach, May 1939

“The Country’s Schools are Lighting Up” (Play—
grounds) by Ralph A. Piper

PAM PH LETS

Community Recreation ProgrammSummary of 1938 Re—
port Recreation Committee, Anderson, Indiana

Spring-Summer Program and Guide—St. Paul Play-
grounds 1939 St. Paul, Minnesota

Report of Executive Secretary for the Year 1938, Annual
Report of the Rosemount Community Center, Seventh
Annual Report of the Community Garden League of
Greater Montreal, Annual Report of the Parks Com-

mittee to the Montreal Parks and Playgrounds As-
sociation Incorporated

Montreal Parks and Playgrounds Association, Mon—
treal, Quebec, Canada

Annual Report of Recreation Commission 1938
N orwalk, Connecticut

Annual Report of Recreation Commission 1938
City and County of Honolulu

Urban Government—Volume I of the Supplementary Re-
port of the Urbanism Committee to the National

Resources Committee, Superintendent of Docu-
ments, Washington, D. C. Price $.50

"Old River"

(Continued from page 234)

ways and footpaths have been completed. The
picnic groves are already invitingly beautiful.
Shelter houses and outdoor cooking facilities are
being completed.

The Lagoon will consist of approximately two
miles of waterways for boating and canoeing. It
will be from fifty to seventy-five feet wide and
will wind its way around the entire “Old River”
groves. The water will attain a depth of nine
feet, from a gradual slope on each side.

The dredging out of the 01d channel formed an
island consisting of about forty acres of ground.
Most of this island is wooded with sycamores,
willow, poplar and other trees. It is here that the

shelter houses, fireplaces and barbecue are 'being
provided, while benches, chairs and tables will be
scattered throughout the grounds. Practically all
the wooded section faces the lagoon.

Along with these projects the athletic fields are
being transformed. The plot of forty-five acres
of land now needs little more than the charting off
of the baseball and recreation ball diamonds.

One of the most popular spots for employees
and their families in years to come will be the
swimming pool, which consists of two units. One
unit consists of an elliptical pool 80’ x 120’ which
will provide enjoyment for smaller children. The
maximum depth of the water in this pool will be
eighteen inches. There will be a miniature play:
ground connected to this area which will be fenced
off so as to keep the little ones away from any
possible danger while their parents are enjoying
other parts of “Old River.”

The second unit will be a large elliptical pool
measuring 220’ x 280’ which will provide for
adult bathing, swimming and diving. This pool will
be divided into two section. One section, from
four to ten feet deep, will be used for swimming
and diving. This section will also contain a 220’
racing course. The second section, with depth
ranging from two to four feet, will be for the use
of those who do riot swim or who do not care to
enter the deeper water. Equipment of the most
modern design will be used in and around the
pool, and every precaution will be taken for the
safety of the users. Six diving boards will be
provided for those interested in this phase of
water sports. The dressing and locker room fa-
cilities will be large enough to permit of 5,000
persons being in the big pool at one time.

Colonel Deeds, President and Chairman of the
Board of the National Cash Register Company;
much of whose personal time has been spent in
the planning of this great unit, has this to say
about the development: “By making intelligent
use of everything nature and circumstances have
given us, a good beginning is being made toward
the creation of a beautiful and practical park at
minimum cost. We will begin to use it in the
rough. By adding improvements from time to
time as we can afford them, we shall see our pro-7
gram gradually become a beautiful reality.”

Larks in Latimer Street
(Continued from page 238)

these balconies formed a romantic setting for ar
singer in Spanish costume. And everywhere were’

l

' and a great yellow cellophane

g
g
l

.L-...-

 

 

LARKS IN LATIMER STREET

Spanish ladies, dons, and Mexican peons. The
1937 Lark was an Autumn festival, done in blue
and yellow. Screens with bold designs of sun-
flowers on a dark blue background made an un-
interrupted dado along the walls. Aides were in
yellow cellophane dresses and blue ruffs, with yel-
low crescent moons on their heads.
blue lights and paper pumpkins dangled from the
trees, braided corn stalks framed the doorways,
moon shone
beneficently.

Entertainment at the Larks has always been
plentiful and in unexceptionable taste. Guests
have been quickly initiated into the spirit of
revelry by street singers and dancers. These have
included costumed Irish singers with shillalaghs,
Hungarian dancers in colorful native dress, a
Spanish singer drawn in a donkey cart, and an
accordion player. In 1937 an organ grinder with
a talented monkey delighted the adults as well as
the children. In 1936 there was a small horse-
drawn merry-go-round for children. At the next
Lark it is planned to have a good orchestra for
street dancing.

Side shows offered by the various organizations
have been of a highly amusing nature: a marion~
ette show put on each year in Mr. Yarnall
Abbott’s studio; a variety show given by college
students in 1936, by entertainers with special acts
in 1937. At the Mexican fiesta, hot tamales were

’ warmly welcomed, while the Autumn Lark saw

brisk traffic in coffee, doughnuts and chestnuts.
There were. naturally, the ever—beloved fortune-
tellers’ booths, and tea booths. Walled gardens
were opened for tea or outdoor suppers. Some
organization always provides games — shuffle-

, board, darts and the like. Many of the groups

have booths with fascinating things to sell—

- among these, the fiower booth and the Russian

booth were especially colorful—and the social
service organizations present very fine handcraft

: exhibitions.

Difficulties of putting on a street fair in the
heart of a large city are not so numerous, we are
told, as might be supposed. There’s a certain
amount of red tape, to be gone through with with
city ofhcials. And of course the handling of ad—
missions is important; gates must be efficiently
manned and should admit one person at a time.
‘But on the whole, Latimer Street people have

found complications surprisingly few. The
“bouncer” in his high hat is seldom, if ever, called
into action. The worst obstacle is the chance of

 

Yellow and,

253

bad weather; it is possible to meet this—at least,
to some extent—by the purchase of rain insurance.

Creators of the Larks in Latimer Street men-
tion as one of the benefits of the affairs, the spirit
of neighborliness engendered between organiza—
tions. The Garden Club, for example, gets to
know the Print Club. The Women’s City Club,
Red Cross, Grenfell Association, the dentists’
group and the Colonial Dames join hands co-
operatively. All of which, Latimer Streeters agree,
is a marvellous thing.

Playground Beautification
(Continued from page 239)

This year the work was continued, and for the
first time the Board of Education purchased 218
trees, leaving to the P.T.A. only the work of
planting and dedication. The result was to bring
the grand total of planting for the four years to
814 trees and several hundred lineal feet of
shrubs.

The planting has been carried on in a systema-
tic manner. A technical committee on which the
school landscape architect, the Department of
Physical Education of the schools, the Recreation
Commission, and the Council of Parents and
Teachers were represented, provided tentative
planting charts for each school ground, which
were checked by the business office of the school
district from the standpoint of future building
construction plans.

The children of the several schools had an
active and important part in the dedication pro-
grams which were arranged in each instance by
the principal of the school, cooperating with the
Parent-Teacher Association and the central physi-
cal education office.

In addition to the natural pride and pleasure
which this beautification program brings to the
schools and the city as a whole, keen interest and
satisfaction is also felt by the Recreation Com-
mission, for in this city a coordinated plan is ef-
fective, with the supervisor of health and physical
education of the schools serving as director of
school and municipal recreation under charter
provision.

The planting project, which has added so much
of beauty, safety, and comfort to the schools, has
also enlarged and improved areas on which many
of the activities of the Recreation Commission’s
broad program will be conducted. As would be
expected, the entire achievement has had the
active support and inspiration of the city’s rec-

254 YOU ASKED FOR IT!

reation director who could foresee the great im-
portance of the project from the community rec—
reational standpoint quite apart from the element

of simple beauty.

Another project which has just been started on
the Long Beach elementary school playgrounds is
the surfacing of the large open areas with bitu-
muls, an emulsified asphalt paving recently de-

veloped for playground surfacing. Special activity
areas will also be treated with bitumuls in the
secondary schools. With this, in addition to the
trees and lawns, it will be “goodbye, dust and
grime” from now on—an improved condition
which will be a source of satisfaction not only to
the children using the grounds but to adjacent

residential areas as well.

The Man Back of the Park Executives

( C ontinucd from page 240)

active guiding head and spirit of the Institute
practically since he joined the organization. Mr.
Doolittle’s interest in the American Institute of
Park Executives and the American Park Society
is at par with his intense enthusiasm, constant
teaching, and advocacy for the conservation of
wild life. He is a most worthy, forceful disciple
of the late Dr. W. T. Hornaday, that noble, cou-
rageous hghter for the conservation of wild life,
whose intimate friendship he enjoyed for many
years and whose teachings he successfully
carries on.

Nation-Wide Interest in the National

Recreation Congress
( C oniinncd from page 241)

for discussion of these and related subjects will
be held. Each person planning to come will re-
ceive in advance the Question Pamphlet contain—
ing detailed questions listed under each topic. The
final programs giving time, place and personnel
for all meetings and arrangements will be avail-
able at registration desk.

You Asked For It!

(Continued from page 242)

the chair. A mat or rough floor prevents slip-
ping and makes a better race track. The back
heels of the turtle must remain in contact with
the floor throughout .the race, and the player
must stay in his starting position.

Special Contests

The challenge of competition creates much of
the excitement and interest in many special ac-
tivities. Although these events are being listed
under contests, many of them are fine, informal
activities that children enjoy playing again and
again with no thought of formal contests or
competition.

Jacks tournament

Top spinning contest

O’Leary tournament

Yo Yo contest

Marble tournament

Hopscotch tournament

Rope jumping contest

Pie eating contest

Seed planting or plant growing contest
Give each contestant a certain number of
seeds, or a slip to plant and tend. Judge re«
sults after a period of time. (Beans grow
rapidly.)

Fishing contest

Contest in sailing model boats

Ping pong tournament

Carrom tournament

Checkers and chess tournaments

T etherball tournament

Whistling contest
Each contestant is required to whistle a cer-

rtain piece of music which all must do, as well

as one which he selects for himself.

Soap bubble contest
Judge the largest bubble, prettiest bubble,
double or triple bubbles, longest floating bub-
ble. Add glycerine to soap suds to make
stronger bubbles. Besides the regular pipes,
soda straws or empty thread ,spools may be
used.

Model airplane and glider contests

Toy parachute contests

Tin can golf (9 holes)
Sink 9 one-pound coffee cans into the ground
various distances apart. Game is played ant
scored like golf, using a flat board or bat as

club, and a large soft indoor baseball for the
ball.

Other Special Activities

Signalling with flags by codes.

Rhythm band
Any number of things may be used to marl
a rhythm along with a melody instrumen'
such as a harmonica, piano, accordion, etc:
Wood blocks, railroad spikes, pot lids, tit
cans, and bottles partly hlled with water ma}
add to the sound of a rhythm band.

A sandy city. Build a miniature city in the sanc
box. Make cardboard or wooden houses, stores-
c1ty hall, street signs, trees, etc.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Swimming Pool Standards

By Frederick W. Luehring. Ph.D. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $5.00.

HIS BOOK 'has been written to provide guiding stand-
ards which will be helpful to those charged with the
' responsibility for the planning, construction, and ad-
ministration of swimming pools in educational institu-
; tions. In addition to the laws, rules and regulations
for swimming pools, criteria for judging standards are
offered as well as for the standards themselves as they
relate to site, location and environment and to construc-
I tion, equipment, and administration. There is an
interesting chapter reporting an historical survey of the
swimming pool made by Dr. Luehring, which in his
l judgment is the first time such an historical account has
' ever been published. The edition of this volume has been
-; limited to a thousand copies.

l. A Marblehead Model Sailing Yacht

" By Claude W. Horst. T’he Bruce Publishing Company,
‘Milwaukee, Wisconsin. $.50.

. COMPLETE DIRECTIONS and full-size station templates are

given for building a 50-inch sailing yacht with a sail

area of 800 square inches. Mr. Horst is known as the

author of “Model Sail and Power Boats,” and “Model

Boats for Juniors,” and he is an authority on boat
. building.

, Puppets-A Handbook of Marionettes

i By the Hamburg (N. Y.) Puppet Guild. Bacon and
Vincent Co., Inc., Buffalo, New York. $.50.

MANUAL OF PRACTICAL directions for the making of
stringed marionettes with suggestions for their cos-
tuming, stringing and operation. A short c'hapter on the
building of a stage, its lighting equipment, scenery and
properties is included. To assist the beginner there is
t given a “chOpping list” of all the materials needed in the
l construction of a single marionette. The authors describe
in some detail directions for the making of a puppet
head from craytonite, a new plastic modeling material de-
velopcd by the Guild. They suggest, however, that heads
can also be made in other ways—from wood, papier-
mziche', molded of clay, and cast in plaster of paris. The
book is illustrated.

l Sports for the Handicapped

BY George T. Stafford, »Ei(l.D. Prentice-Hall, Inc., New
York. $2.50.

UTnE NEWER TREND in many schools is away from the

correction of the physical defect by formal exercises
and toward the provision of the advantages and oppor-
tunities available through games and sport activities
. Properly supervised and adapted to the needs of the
atYpical student.” With this principle in mind, Dr.
Stafford has presented to the physioal educator, the
school nurse, the physician, the handicapped, the parent,

 

and all who are concerned with the education of the
handicapped, a method of teaching that will motivate the
atypical student to improve not only his physical condi-
tion, but also his outlook on life. The book is exceedingly
practical and makes definite suggestions for the activities
suitable for handicapped individuals with different types
of physical disabilities.

Photography as a Hobby

By Fred B. Barton. Harper and Brothers, New York
City. $2.00.

N AN INFORMAL, non-technical way the author discusses
composition, printing, deve10ping, enlarging equip-
ment and methods, and many other subjects which will
satisfy the veteran’s quest for new ideas and at the same

time help the beginner become a proficient and enthusiastic
camera fan.

Dances of the Hungarians

By Elizabeth C. Rearick. Bureau of Publications,

Teachers College, Columbia University, New York
City. $2.10.

IN PRESENTING the results of her careful research, the

author has given us not only authentic dances with
illustrated descriptions and music, but she has emphasized
the social significance of folk dancing in the life of

nations. Unusually attractive illustrations accompany the
text.

Group Instruction in Tennis

and Badminton

By Harry D. Edgren and Gilmer G. Robinson. A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York. $1.00.

WITH THE INCREASING popularity of tennis and bad-
minton has come the demand that these games be
taught to young peeple of school age. Limited equipment,
playing facilities, and thelnumbers involved make teach—
ing individual activities a difiicult task. Accordingly the
attempt is made in this book to aid teachers of physical
education and others in giving group instruction. Funda-
mentals of play in each sport are briefly described, and
the playing strategy and other aids to play are given.

Promenade

By Lloyd Shaw, SUperintendent of Cheyenne Mountain

Schools. Entertainment Department. Woman’s Home
Companion, New York. $.10.

ACOLLECTION 0F SEVEN western cowboy square dances

and variations with complete calls and full (lance
directions. Included are “Form a Star,” “Ladies to the
Center,” “Lady Round the Lady,” “Two Gents Swing
With the Elbow Swing,” “I’ll Swing Your Girl, You
Swing Mine,” “Forward Six and Fall Back Six,” and
“Forward Six and Fall Back Eight.” All of the dances
start in square formation, and their success, according to
Mr. Shaw, depends largely upon the caller, who must

be enthusiastic enOUgh to memorize the calls and to study

255

256 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

out the directions so that he can time them to the dance

steps. The pianist who plays a good persuasive marching
rhythm to such familiar tunes as “Turkey in the Straw,”
or “The Arkansas Traveler,” is needed to accompany the
dances. Music is not included in the pamphlet. Everyone
will want to “dosey-doe,” “allemande left” and "swing
their Opposites” to Mr. Shaw’s interesting calls. This is
a publication many will want to add to their recreation
libraries. It will help one in planning evenings of fun and
entertainment.

Know Your Community—Its Provision for
Health, Education, Safety, Welfare.

By Joanna C. Colcord. Russell Sage Foundation,
New York. $.85.

The expert “surveyor” of community life is warned by
the author that this book is not meant for him. Rather
it is designed to help local persons and organizations to
become familiar with the health, safety, education and
welfare of their communities. How and where to find the
information desired, how to record it for most effective
use, how to interpret the facts, and how *best to prepare
the material for public consumption are major phases of
treatment.

Chapter XII deals with recreation——unorganized, pub-
lic and private, commercial, and the planning of the com-
munity program. Other chapters of interest to recreation
workers will guide the student to information regarding
Foreign Born and Racial Groups, Clubs and Associations,
Agencies for Community Planning, etc. The book, a sub-
stantial volume of 250 pages, will be an excellent guide
to persons in the general social work field.

Silk Screen Stencil Craft as a Hobby.

By J. I. Biegeleisen. Harper and Bros., New York.
$2.00.

A book that introduces one to a fascinating hobby
through which a variety of colorful designs can be trans-
ferred in an interesting way onto paper, wood, textile,
glass, etc. In the process, a stencil of a decorative or
pictorial design is put on a silk or organdy “screen” that
is stretched over a wooden frame. Colors are forced
through the stencil onto the printing surface, thus giving
a facsimile of the original design. Suggestions have
been included for decorating such articles as lamp shades,
posters, greeting cards, handkerchiefs, scrap books, favors.
It is a practical handbook written in simple, non-technical
terms for the beginner. Instructions are specific and
illustrated with numerous diagrams and photographs. A
printing unit consists of the screen, a flat printing base,
and a squeege, which is a long narrow strip of sub-
stantial rubber belting sandwiched between two pieces of
wood. The investment in permanent equipment amounts
to less than five dollars.

Dances of Our Pioneers.

Collected by Grace L. Ryan. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $2.00.

With the return of the country dance have come a
number of practical books to aid the social recreation
leader in developing the art of old-time dancing. Miss
Ryan, in her version, has traced many of the pioneer
dances which are still found in the rural sections of our
country and has recorded them so that many peeple can
enjoy them. Directions are given with illustrations for
a number of quadrilles or square dances, for contra
dances, circle and couple dances. Music for the various
dances is reproduced.

Fundamentals of Leathercraft.

By Ross C. Cramlet. Bruce Publishing Co., Mil—
waukee, Wisconsin. $1.00.

The main purpose of the book as outlined in the
preface 15 “to give fundamental information and instruc-
tion to the beginner 1n leatherwork, placing emphasis

upon the types of materials to be selected for different
articles and the simple tool processes necessary to make
things desired.” This purpose has been fulfilled. Mr.
Cramlet tells very simply exactly what to do and how
to do it. Every step in the leatherworking process is so
clearly described and illustrated with clear-cut diagrams
and pictures that the beginner would have little, if any,
difficulty in following them. There are complete instruc-
tions for the making of eleven useful leather articles
including book marks, key cases, coin purses, comb case,
belts, book cover, and others. This is a publication that

should be helpful to both the beginner and the ex-
perienced craftsman.

Schools in Small Communities.

Seventeenth Yearbookt American Association of
School Administrators, 1201 Sixteenth Street, North-
west, Washington, D. C. $2.00.

The Seventeenth Yearbook of the American Associa-
tion of School Administrators of the National Education
Association is devoted to the problems of schools in
small communities. The book is the work of a special
committee of which Hobart M. Corning, Superintendent
of Schools, Colorado Springs, Colorado, was chairman
Practical treatment is given such prdblems as guidance.
curriculum, public relations. schoolhouse planning,
budgeting, Finance, and leadership.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. FINLEY, President

4- JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS. Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
HOWARD S. BRAUGIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS. Boston, Mass.
MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. \VILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT. Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F‘. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y. ,
JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y. j
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md. .
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vash. '
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass. ‘
MRS. MELVILLE II. HASKELL. Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CIIARLES V. Hrcxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON IIUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. If.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.
SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.
J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
\VALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me. {I
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
T. SUI-'FERN TAILER, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
MRS. JAMES W. W'ADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
h ,l. C. \VALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. 11.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

