Our America

MERICA MUST resolutely prepare for defense. The kind of America we are is most important now.
We must be an America that is worth giving all for.

An America that is good for a few will not do. "This country will n0t be very good for any
of us unless it is good for all of us.”

America has been a land of dreams. Now the frontiers are gone. Physical borders hem our youth in.
Dreams cannOt now be of the West. Even Alaska and the North are fairly limited.

Other frontiers there are and continue to be—frontiers worth dreaming about— frontiers of living,
of freedom of the spirit, of the pursuit of happiness.

More important than money in the pursuit of happiness is a measure of leadership of the right kind.
Such leadership needs to be very wise. It should be the kind that frees one, that makes it easier to do
what one deeply wishes to do. It ought not to be a leadership that restriCts, that makes it harder to
remain oneself.

Much of this leadership is volunteer, cooperative, but money is necessary for freeing the naturally
gifted few who care for the arts of living, who like to see men deeply satisfied, who belong to this
pioneer frontier field.

If we keep daily living free, rich, challenging, adventurous, deep, satisfying—then no matter how
many years come and go men cannOt willingly let go of life because they cannOt imagine another world
they would rather live in. Fill man’s world with satisfying activity, with comradeship, cooperation, with
chances to be one’s best, deepest self, to realize oneself, to share the activities one cares most about with

others—then we have a world worth fighting for, worth living for.
Now is the accepted, necessary, vital time for making life in America most meaningful.

I grant you that recreation is a poor word for all this. Recreation centers are life centers, are cen-
ters for comradeship, centers for cooperation, centers which help men to find themselves and to come to

know God.

Many men are n0t gifted in using the words of religion. Yet they do come out of the recreation
center with a warm feeling of human brotherhood and a measure of consciousness that all their comrades

are children of a common God who is like unto a Father.

What many have sought to find in fascism, nazism, communism, and. will never find there in the end,

they do find in part in the br0therhood of sharing their music, art, drama, sports, crafts, poetry, books——
.what they care most for. In the recreation movement men share their living without losing their individual

gfreedom, without losing their capacity to choose what they want to do.

It is dull that we are when we face living itself. We hesitate to provide the comparatively small

ileadership required. Making living itself richer and more fruitful seems so simple and so easy. If it
Qwere only more difiicult and more complicated and involved a ritual hard to understand!

_ It is not hard to think bombers, submarines, destroyers, battleships, tanks. It is harder to think what
are the ramparts we defend, what is contained in America’s so green valleys. In time of defense it 18
particularly important to keep alive the central life itself which we defend.

' So much of frustration, irritation, inner rebellion, disloyalty is due to the simple fact that we the
people do not eternally remember that satisfying living is just as essential to a man as eating, drinking,
breathing, and can no more be neglected without paying some form of penalty.

It was early in our history that we recorded our declaration as to the inalienable right to the pursuit of
:Iappiness. Much of America is built around this idea. Such a c0untry is worth defending to the uttermost.

jSEPTEMBER I940 W eWoéu/v

341

 

 

35:23 Ffmyfa E <u_~_m2< 02:0»

 

 

Lite needs make detinite demands
on Education. There is the need
for adventure and for novel exper-
iences; for recognition and social
status. How are the schools meeting
these varied needs and demands?

By V. K. BROWN

Director of Recreation
Chicago Park District

Courtesy Cincinnati Public Recreation Commission

The School Curriculum
and Lite Needs

HO KNOWS all the needs of life? Who can
W say which are most important among these
needs?

The Chicago Park District is at least one of the
best equipped recreation departments in existence,
onering services to a participant attendance of
over fifty million per year, besides uncounted
easual strollers in our more than I 30 parks. We
operate close to one hundred buildings, some of
which cost a half million dollars. Broadly speak—
‘ng, the people come to these parks to escape the
. onotony of work-a-day existence. Apparently,
:hey desire thrill and adventure, introduction 'of
aghallenge into life’s humdrum, novel experiences,
kindred-spirited companionship, social status and
recognition. They pursue sustained and sustain-
'ng interests, to lend life meaning and enthusiasm.
They desire the sense of mastery, the joy of richer
1nd more fruitful living, creative accomplishment,
lrama, color, poetry, movement,
melody. They want secular life

We have a peculiar opportunity to observe these
people when they are most unstudied, least posed,
most spontaneous, when they are relaxed, and do—
ing the things they choose to do., They are
absorbed in the exciting pursuit of the objects of
their enthusiasms, but are still responding signifi-
cantly to the codes of social conduct to which they
are pledged, sharing their skills with their neigh-
bors, joining neighborhood associations, working
for neighborhood improvement with sportsman—
ship and sociability. Such unstudied responses
indicate hungers which interpret essential needs
of life.

We are now ready to discuss the subject of the
School Curriculum and Life Needs. We should
have learned something about what people want
out of life. Their gropings do have significance.
There are life needs which remain unsatisfied.
Those needs make definite demands upon
Education.

The first life need we will discuss is the need of
better integrating an emotional with our intel—
lectual culture. We think humanity still suffers
from a sort of secular-spiritual Beri—beri. Beri—
beri, as you know, being a disease caused by un—
balanced diet, when the life germ has been re—
moved from the diet. We believe that subsisting
exclusively on an intellectual diet, divested of the
life germ of emotional content, contributes to a

loss in emotional discipline and
cultivation. Stephen Leacock, in

'0 have spiritual significance, to
;)e gaily gallant, to have dignity,
Jut with a sense of humor, lest
rts dignity be too solemn.

The extracts presented here were
taken from an address delivered
by Mr. Brown before a group of
educators at the University of
Kansas on April the sixth.

his "Too Much College” says,
“All that is best in education
can only be acquired by spon—
taneous interest.”

343

344 THE SCHOOL CURRICULUM AND LIFE NEEDS

My youngest son attends a school that has been
testing pupils to determine how much detail they
are getting out of their reading assignments. He
had the flu lately, and was to be alone in the house
all day, so wanted something to read. That eve-
ning he had almost finished reading the book. He
said, “It’s a line book, Dad, all but one chapter.
It’s the chapter we had in school, in reading as-
signment, and I hate that so that it almost spoiled
the book for me l” If the school had made a game
of close observation in reading, do you think the
result would have been the same? His school
made a contest of spelling, and he won the school’s
spelling bee. He puts more of himself into ob-
servation of detail in spelling, as a sport, than into
observation of detail in reading as a study.

The President of the University of Chicago
says that the purpose of education is to train stu-
dents to think, but is that the whole story? It
also has to provide experience integrating think—
ing with action. Do children run adventuring to
school as they do to a playground which operates
as a really exploratory center? I admit that many
a playground is no more vital than the tombs of
the Pharaohs, and many a school as electric with
power as a crackling dynamo. When either brings
people to it with eagerness, it is issuing a call to
the emotions. The emotions can be consciously
guided and disciplined. The planning of emo-
tional experience for the sake of developing emo—
tional controls has been started by the forces of
education, but it is still embryonic.

The art of propaganda makes cunning use of a
weakness in our defenses which education has too
long tolerated. We seem content in our educa-
tional system to let the emotions remain undis-
ciplined. That remains the most damning indict-
ment of our education, and the source of our
greatest danger.

We have been forced to give this subject atten—
tion in public recreation. Since there are no com-
pulsory attendance laws, we either attract or we
don’t get patrons. We have to make participation
adventurous, emotionally appealing.

I doubt that peOple fundamentally want life to
be too easy. They don’t object to difiiculty, so
long as it interprets itself as challenge rather than
as drudgery.

I don’t know why we should feel that we must
leave adventure behind to be scientinc. Physical
education solemnly tried to be scientific and
presently found itself dead. It began interpreting
actlvity not in measurements, but in sensations.

Posture came alive only when it was interpreted
in terms of beauty. Physical education took to
itself vital emotional motivations, and came to life
again.

Let’s look at this from another angle, that of
transfer of training. James Mursell observes that
the lack of transfer is a reproach to teaching. It
may be even an indictment of the degree of emo-
tional involvement. The competitive spirit—what.
we call the heart of the athlete—is something an-
athlete brings with him out of his past life ex-,
perience. It is a capacity for living intensely, and
it isn’t restricted solely to the area in which it has
been developed. It transfers; there’s no doubt of
it. But equally there’s no-doubt that it is an
emotional hook-up.

Near the end of the final game in a senior bas-
ketball league, the score stood at one point from a
tie. A forward stood under his goal ready to
throw the basket that would put his team in the
lead again. There were no opposing players near
at hand. Just then an opposing player, coming
fast, stumbled to crash against a wall nearby, and
fell. The forward called time instead of shooting,
and ran to the aid of his injured opponent. The .
crowd went into a frenzy of approval, and the
event is still talked of. Wasn’t that transfer? His
sporting conscience broke through both these
chemico-physical and counter-emotional barriers
to lay an arresting hand upon his actions. The
crowd reaction was even more significant. They
were carried along to be participant also in the
player’s gesture of self denial. Wasn’t the signifi-
cant vitalizing factor in both player and spectator
the emotional intensity which was involved?

Let me summarize. We need better integrating
of all the forces in the individUal. That is one of
the most fundamental of our life needs. The
present curriculum still fails to get in full measure

' such integration. To bring the curriculum into.

relation to life needs seems to require a further;
transfusion of the life element into the study pro-
gram. It implies vitalizing that program.

Other life needs come to mind, such as the
consciousness of selfhood, self respect, confidence,
and a social consciousness. The curriculum pretty
generally passes by on the other side.

I want you to think about other life needs.
PeOple need inter-acquaintance, friendlier under-
standing in this troubled world. We need humor
and relaxing. We need refinement. We need to
interpret democracy as an attitude, not an act. We
adults might set a pattern of example in law ob—

———_—— __4.—.._. _——-—— —__-——._..._—— A

THE SCHOOL CURRICULUM AND LIFE NEEDS

serving instead of bewailing juvenile delinquency.
We simply can’t get away with expecting the
child to be the only law abiding member of society.
\Ve need to get the flesh and blood of life itself
into more of our studies preparing for life. These
are just a few life needs.

There is another problem. The millions who
throng our parks seek adventurous variety in
novel experiences. Our leaders need to be inven-
tive. Plenty of us can teach the old stuff, but few
seem able to think up new devices.

Surely, there is more satisfaction in creating
than in repeating. In my home my daughter had
a doll rejoicing in'the name of Susy Polly; she
was a rag, without bone or hank of hair. My
father bought' her a marvelous doll, beautiful to
behold. For a day or two the newcomer held
sway, but then Susy Polly resumed her reign.
Possibly the perfect doll was too perfect, leaving
nothing to the imagination.

In Ollr toy play centers we provide no dominant
directing leadership. The law of the jungle is not
permitted to prevail; there is that much. of super—
vision. But we permit the children to evolve their
own patterns of activity; we are watching to see
what life itself does to them, without either par-
ental or pedagogical interference. Our toys lend
themselves to constructive uses. They are not too
complicated; they are not stubborn in resisting
adaptation to new purposes. We have no destruc-
tiveness at all, and incidentally, no theft. We find
that children have a universal vividness of crea-
tive imagination, and all possess the creative
faculty.

If the creative faculty is so universal in chil-
dren, and so rare in our mature leaders, where
was it lost along the line? How can we keep
learning exact and still preserve a vivid individu-
alism? There has been improvement, but there yet
remains a vast amount of improvement to be ac-
complished before education can establish itself
as an exercise effectively developing original in-
ventiveness.

M y whole department's in-service training insti-

! tute this year was taken over by Northwestern
' University. All are attending one course which
" attempts to combine Psychology, Sociology, and
' Education. We were subject to a true or false

examination. The results convinced us that that
form of testing in other than purely factual studies

; closes the door upon possibility of cultivating any

original thinking whatsoever, for a premium is

‘ Placed on stupid memorizing, and a penalty at-

345

tached to the forming of independent judgments.

It seems to me that education ought to do more
than it is doing in my daughter’s case. In her
senior year at college, she wanted this year to
write her honor thesis on the subject of the phi-
1050phy of our current youth movements. She
was vastly interested in the attitude toward life of
the youth with whom she came in contact abroad.
Her thinking has been termed mature. Her pro-
posed inquiry was in the field of ethics, as youth
movements interpret and apply ethics to their own
problems. But the philosophy department refuses
to permit her to think originally in a new field of
philosophical exploration because no one has yet
done so. There are no authorities to be quoted.

The world needs new but sound and trust-
worthy thinking in which there is a vital, a living
interest. We can’t expect much of courageOUS in-
tellectual independence unless the academic world
is generally concerned with intellectual pioneering.
I trust it is.

Those of us whose years are past the peak
realize that we have lived in the most interesting
single life span the world has yet seen. The proba-
bility is that the rising generation will see much
more happen than we have. It starts where inte-
gration is implicit in the needs of every day, in-
tegration of our knowledge and discovery into the
satisfying life, into a synthesized composite of
our intellectual with our spiritual forces. This
generation starts when an outworn economic
statesmanship has brought the world to an unholy
mess which nothing short of a new type of spirit-
ual and cultural statesmanship would appear able
to redeem. It starts when religious faiths in the
adequacy of personal and individual salvation are
being rudely shaken. Our prayers are a social,
not an individual, plea. We see a changing spirit-
ual horizon.

This generation starts at the time when de—
mocracy has been revealed not as a thing accom—
plished, but as a thing prophetic. Education must
prepare them to think originally, vitally, and with
a spiritual understanding and intensity, or it fails
us. The new generation faces conditions un-
dreamed of in the past. It will be necessary to
create their own adaptations to a changed, and
still continuously changing world. The thinking
of the past will not save us now. Somehow we
must find fresh inspiration to face the new day.
Education confronts again the challenge to which
it has never in the past successfully responded.

(Continued on page 397)

Some Noon l-lour Recreation Programs

School officials, from the principals of small consolidated schools to the
faculty of large city high schools, are becoming increasingly concerned
with the problem of providing noon hour recreation for the student
body. What facilities may be used effectively? What shall the program
be? How may leadership be arranged? llIany problems are being
presented. We report here on two successful experiments in the field.

Noon Hour Co-Educational

Recreation

By DUDLEY ASHTON

Theodore Ahrens Trade High School
Louisville. Kentucky

URING THE SCHOOL YEAR 1938-39, the faculty
D of the Theodore Ahrens Trade High School

was faced with an urgent and difficult noon
hour problem. The school is co-educational on the
senior high school level. Of the 1,200 students
enrolled, 850 to 900 were housed in the building
presenting this problem. The school is located in
the central business district where land values are
high and ground is at a premium. Due to the
generosity of a Louisville citizen and to PWA
assistance, an addition to the main building was
being erected on the site of our former play-
ground. This left us with the problem of having
hundreds of boys and girls at school all day whose
recreational needs had to be accommodated dur-
ing two noon hours of thirty minutes each. Since
classes were in session at the time of both noon
hours, it was decided that the only spaces avail—
able for use were the cafeteria and gymnasium,
and the corridors adjacent to these.

The physical plan of the building is such that
this plan proved feasible. Our cafeteria is located
one floor below the gym-
nasium, the two spaces
forming a unit to them—
selves. The gymnasium is
equipped with a large bal-
cony seating 250 people
comfortably. Moreover, the
gymnasium floor itself is
approximately thirty - eight
by seventy feet.

Since our student body

346

Mr. Ashton. in telling of his interesting
experiment in the September I939 issue of
the Journal of Health and Physical Eda-
cation, points out that no member of any
faculty. working alone. could accomplish the
desired results. The success of this pro]-
ect. he states. was due to the support of
the principal and the entire faculty. and
to the "spirit of helpfulness and eagerness
to enter all doors of opportunity present
in the hearts and minds of our students." of

was composed of both boys and girls, an experi-
ment in co-educational recreation seemed the best
solution. We decided to use the balcony for spec—
tators on days when scheduled games were being
played. Plans for the entire year were made and
submitted to the principal and to the supervisor of
physical education for approval. All activities
were taught to the girls during the regular phy—
sical education class periods. The boys were given
instruction during the noon hour in the time which
elapsed between the closing of one tournament
and the necessary organization for the next one.
As soon as the boys were skilled in each activity,
the girls joined them and tournament entries were
opened. Throughout the entire year, all participa—-
tion was voluntary, including the help of officials
needed for all tournaments.

When the yearly plan was evolved, it included
sixtournaments lasting from five to six weeks
each. Many of the games were of a net type.
Tournaments in aerial tennis, five man tenikoit,.
basket endball (this was the only activity in which
boys and girls played as separate units), volley-
ball, floor bowling, and paddle tennis were spon-
sored. These tournaments were played Monday
through Thursday of each week, with an audience-

in the balcony. On Friday, mixed social dancing, _

with a student accompanist and faculty super—

vision, was the scheduled activity. There were no 4

spectators on this day. So many boys expressed a.
desire to learn social danc-
ing that classes were or-
ganized for them on alter—
nate Fridays. Participation
in social dancing increased
after this need was cared
for.

Co-educational recreation
has become the order of the
day but the practical details
its administration are

SOME NOON HOUR RECREATION PROGRAMS 347

still vague. It is With the hope that this experi-
ment may prove helpful to others who are plan-
ning to embark upon this adventure that the above
information and the ensuing details are given.

There are many minor problems involved in
the major problem of co—educational recreation.
We found our situation no exception to this rule.
One of our first problems was that of teaching
the art of fine spectatorship. Our student body
had attended community games in basketball, soft-
ball, and other sports and had acquired by imita-
tion the knack of derisive disapproval for the
“duds” and equally embarrassing vocal approval
for the stars. During the early weeks of our ex-
periment we worked every day on the-problem of
locating the leaders and of educating them in the
ethics of becoming fine spectators. The faculty
cooperated by discussing the spectator plan for
noon hour with the students during the morning
assembly period. Gradually we found that the
situation improved until, by the end of the first
semester, we had practically no problem from
this source.

Another problem that rose shortly after the
tournaments began was that of time for lunch.
We found that if tournaments were scheduled for
the beginning of noon hour, interest in the play
was so high that a number of students would
watch instead of eating. To offset this difficulty,
we scheduled all tournaments for the second'half
of each noon hour. During the first half, free play
in each activity was offered for those students
who ran part-time schedules and who left the
building shortly after noon.

It was necessary that all students be appraised
of their time for tournament play. To that end,
large charts made by the commercial art depart—
ment were posted in the gymnasium. Scores were
recorded daily and dates for succeeding play as-
signed on the charts. Double play by means of
consolation and championship tournaments was
offered in aerial tennis, five man tenikoit, volley-
ball, and paddle tennis. In basket endball, each
team played every other team with tied scores re-
sulting in an extra game. A qualifying round was
used in bowling with a second round for all teams
qualifying. The winning team was determined by
cumulative score. Use of these charts necessitated
teaching the reading of three types of tourna-
ment play. This was an educational factor in
itself. All tournaments played to final winners
for each noon hour with the winners playing for
the championship of the school.

About the first week of the experiment we
realized that we must use student officials. Volun-
teer officials were constantly at hand, but we were
faced with the problem of providing score sheets
that would be impossible to misinterpret and
which would be easy to use. In bowling we used
standard type sheets, but we bowled only five
frames. In basket endball, high team score won.
This was not difficult to handle as the students
were familiar with the official duties of this game.
In paddle tennis, the points to be gained were
written in parallel columns, one side for each team.

Similar sheets, but with details changed, were
used for aerial tennis, live man tenikoit, and vol-
leyball. These score sheets were mimeographed
in our commercial department.

With the exception of paddle tennis, all equip-
ment was furnished out of our physical education
supplies. We used sponge rubber balls, and pad-
dles made by our cabinet—making department ac-
cording to the official guide.

There were a number of students who enjoyed
the quiet of the cafeteria after lunch. For their
benefit table games were on hand. Checkers and
Chinese checkers proved the most popular, with
anagrams running a close third.

Publicity as to high points in tournament play
was given to the student body in the student
newspaper. Finalists were always given an article.
The only other publicity accorded the experiment
was a finals match in aerial tennis played one
night at Open House. The purpose and plan of
our noon hour was explained to the parents
present on this occasion.

Did the students enjoy it? The total number of
individual participants for the year was 501 out
of a possible eight hundred. The total number
participating in all activities for the year was 1256.
Of course, this number includes the faithful who
participate in every activity throughout the year,
but the 501 is an actual count of individual activity.

What did we gain educationally? In order for
this to be a success it was necessary for every
department in the school to cooperate both in com-
ments to the student body, assistance with needed
materials and equipment, and in upholding the
standards and morale of the undertaking. For the
students, it meant, first, joy; second, ease in play-
ing together before an audience, and acquisition
of skills and participation in activities that could
be used in afterschool life. Many girls realized,

for the first time, that they must stick and play to
the end to be successful. The boys became more

348

aware of the courtesies of the game. These stu-
dents knew, by the end of the year, the impor-
tance of fair and accurate officiating. They knew
all the problems of checking and taking care of
equipment because they did all of this. They
knew that work is necessary for play because they
helped make all arrangements and they had the
grand experience of wholesome recreation with
the opposite sex under supervised conditions. N 0
one member of any faculty could bring this to
pass. The writer of this article wishes to state
that the success of this experiment was due to
the support of the principal and the entire faculty,
and to the spirit of helpfulness and eagerness to
. enter all doors of opportunity present in the hearts
and minds of our students.

In a Consolidated School

WHAT KIND of noon hour recreation can be
provided for pupils of small consolidated
schools? One superintendent, faced with the prob-
lem of entertainment for two hundred and fifty
students of all ages during lunch hour, found an
answer which may be helpful to other school
officials. I

The age distribution of the pupils concerned in
this experiment is shown by the school enroll-
ment: 200 pupils in the first to eighth grades, and
119 high school students. A large percentage
stayed for lunch. Various combinations of ath-
letics and music were tried, but there were always
many students who didn’t participate. Finally,
deciding on a schedule of planned recreation, the
superintendent appointed teachers to sponsor dif-
ferent activities instead of acting as policemen in
conserving property and preserving order. These
teachers worked out a plan of lunching in relays
in order to supervise the activities.

The schedule included a noon study hall from
12:10 to 12:50, and all those students failing
courses were required to stay in two days a week
for each course. Those doing unsatisfactory work
were asked to remain in study hall once a week.
As a result, some students
stayed in noon study hall be-
cause they wanted to, more
took advantage of other study
periods; and finally, the gen-
eral level of work was higher.

The athletic program fea-
tured sports for senior high

intendent

This statement is based on material
supplied by W. D. Jefferson. Super-
of Schools,
Iowa. which appeared in Schools in
Small Communities,
teenth Yearbook of the American As-
sociation of School Administrators.

SOME NOON HOUR RECREATION PROGRAMS

school boys under the direction of the coach. Co-
recreational games, in charge of the junior high
school coach, were badminton, deck tennis, kitten-
ball, horseshoes. The amount of loafing about the
building decreased considerably. Although it
seemed unusual for a school budget to include
tinker toys, erector sets, dolls, and children’s
games, such games and toys were placed in home
rooms for the younger children. By indulging in
these constructive pastimes, the children were
much quieter and furniture damage and quarrels
were virtually eliminated.

Musical interests were served by the junior and
senior band and a harmonica band. The fifteen
members of the junior or beginning band met
three noon hours a week, while the thirty-five or
forty members of the senior band practiced two
days weekly. The ha’rmonica band attracted many
students who were unable to join the regular band
because their families were tob poor to buy ex-
pensive instruments. The English-Music teacher
was in charge of the third, fourth, and fifth grade
boys and girls who gathered twice a week to learn
to play the harmonica. There were twenty inter-
ested at the beginning, but on the day the twenty-
five-cent harmonicas arrived, -the enrollment
jumped to thirty-two. The children were able to
play selections at the end of six weeks.

For twenty senior high school students of dra-
matic bent, a play production group was formed.
After a background has been built up by lectures,
the members of the group will produce one-act

plays.

Finally, for senior high school girls, the home ‘

economics teacher started handicraft work. The

least popular during the spring and fall, this ac- :

tivity is expected to gain more popularity when .

the weather becomes too cold for students to go
outdoors.

At the time of the superintendent’s report, the
program had functioned for only eight weeks, but
the faculty members feel that the old plan of one
or two activities is far inferior. Teachers are
obliged to bring their lunch or stay an extra hour,
but they all acclaim the worth of the plan. Stu-

dents admit that although this ’

way is harder work, they learn .

more and have more fun.

Dunkerton.

rally differ in various schools

the Seven- .
because of the interest of the

Noon hour programs natu- ‘

pupils and the facilities avail- I

l

SOME NOON HOUR RECREATION PROGRAMS 349

able, but all of them should be directed toward a
continued program for leisure education. Pupil
interests that are discovered by the instructor
should be referred back to the home room ad-
viser, physical education or shop teacher, libra-
rian, or any other individual who has a part in
developing the interests of the boy or girl. The
result will be a happy group of boys and girls
doing the things they have chosen to do.

At Norfolk, Virginia, according to a statement
in the September issue of The Nation’s Schools
by Kirk Montague, Director of the Physical Edu-
cation Department, a noon hour recess period is
set aside after lunch for organized play activities
of a non-strenuous nature.

At the outset of the program the physical edu-
cation teacher arranges a schedule and announces
the rules for games, their duration, the officials
and the awards. After a short organization period
,the prOgram is handled by the pupils. The prin—
cipal appoints a member of the faculty to act as
adviser to the pupils participating in the program
and to supervise directly the playing of the first
week's schedule.

 

A skeleton set of rules is followed in all con-
tests. The more complicated points in the games
are eliminated as far as possible. The fifth, sixth,
seventh, and eighth grades play volleyball, soft—
ball, newcomb, rubber heel toss, O’Leary, end ball,
hop scotch, shufHeboard, and bat ball.

As awards two banners have been provided for
each grade by the local Parent—Teacher Associa-
tion. These are awarded to the winning group of
boys and girls after each six week period. This
banner is hung in the classroom of the winning
team for six weeks.

Frequently, Mr. Montague points out, there are
difhculties involved in obtaining suitable officials
for a noon recess recreation program. In securing
the necessary leadership two plans may be fol-
lowed: ( I) A large number of boys and girls may
be trained in proper methods of officiating and of
play leadership, or (2) physical education squad

leaders may be called on to officiate.

NOTE: In connection with the subject of noon hour rec—
reation, may we remind our readers of the September and
October issues of RECREATION which were devoted to a
discussion of co-recreation. A number of the experiences
recorded in these two issues should have much to offer
school officials planning a prOgram of noon hour recreation.

-'..‘-— .— ‘- -_C.

Courtesy National Youth Administration

A New School and Community Center

N THE AFTERNOON of

September 9, 1939,

the Spaulding High
School was dedicated in the
city of Rochester, New Hampshire. This event
marked the day on which this New England com-
munity of 10,000 people not only received a line
six—year high school but came into possession of
a plant that will eventually become the center
about which the recreational life of the city will
revolve. Although the primary thought in the
planning and designing of the building was to
provide the pupils of this city with the type of
education necessary to lit them for life, one of
the main underlying thoughts was to furnish fa-
cilities that might also serve the adult population.

The Facilities

In order to provide suitable programs for child
education and adult recreation, the building com-
mittee decided that the plant should have the fol-
lowing facilities: Thirty-four rooms housing class-
rooms, laboratories and shops; a gymnasium with
two basketball courts; boys’ ,and girls’ visiting
team rooms; a health clinic; a cafeteria; an audi-
torium; a library; a music room with stage; and
an athletic field containing a quarter mile track,
football field, baseball field, girls’ field, general
play field, two tennis courts, a handball court, and
practice football and baseball fields.

It was decided that since the gymnasium, audi-
torium, and music room would be used the most
by the public, they should be located so that it
would be possible to shut them off from the rest
of the building.

Community Use of Facilities

Gymnasium and Visiting Team Rooms. The most
logical place to start an '
adult program seemed to
be in the Department of
Health and Physical Edu-
cation. On the principle
that these facilities should
be available to the public
except when needed for
the school program, it was
decided to offer an adult
program three nights a

350

By MAURICE J. O’LEARY

Director of Health and Physical Education
Rochester Board of Education

Spaulding High School in Rochester, New Hamp-
shire, named for the late Leon C. Spaulding,
was made possible through a gift of approxi-
mately $528,000 from the Spaulding families—
Mr. and Mrs. Huntley Spaulding, Mr. and Mrs.
Rolland Spaulding, Mrs. Marion Spaulding Pot-
ter, and Mrs. Leon C. Spaulding; a grant from
WPA amounting to forty-five per cent of the
cost of the proiectl and an appropriation of
$40,000 from the city of Rochester. The cost
of the entire plant was close to $l.000,000.

week. It is hard to justify
educationally the expense of
installing boys’ and girls’
visiting team rooms since
the philosophical trend of today is toward having
competitors fraternize in the same locker and
shower rooms. In our case the rooms should be
designated as community rooms since they are
used more by the adults of the city than by visi-
tors. The main object in including these rooms in
the physical education wing 'was to provide locker
and shower facilities separate from those used in
the school program. These facilities, along with
the gymnasium, are used twice a week by men
and once a week by women.

The program of recreation for adults is planned
and administered by the Department of Health
and Education, whose workers are in charge of'
the activities. The School Department equipment
is used, but to help defray expenses of heat, light
and leadership, a fee of twenty-live cents per
night is charged those attending the community
recreation classes. This fee, which is paid only
when the participant attends, entitles him to all.
privileges, including locker, shower, soap and.
towel.

In addition to this program the gymnasium is
used for community parties. This fall, seven hun-
dred people played bridge and whist at one party.
for the benefit of the Hospital Aid Association,
and at Christmas time a large number of under-
privileged children attended a Christmas tree
party in the gymnasium. At such affairs as these
the so—called visiting team rooms are used as
check rooms.

The Cafeteria. This room, with‘a seating ca- '
pacity of 225, is equipped with a modern up-to- ‘
date kitchen and provides an excellent place for?

large organization meet-
ings. An effort is made-7
not to compete with local
restaurants but to cater
only to groups that can-
not be handled otherwise.

Thus far this year the '

cafeteria has been used

for such events as a dis-
trict Boy Scout banquet
and rally, a dinner for‘

A NETV SCHOOL AND COMMUNITY CENTER 3.51

underprivileged children, and an organization din-
ner for a- hospital fund drive.

By the use of folding doors the kitchen and
dishwashing facilities may be closed off from the
dining room so that there is no noise or commo-
tion to interfere with after-dinner speakers.

The Auditorium. Rochester, like other cities of
its size, contains a group of citizens who are in—
terested in listening to outstanding lectures and
musical programs. In past years they have had to
go elsewhere to find this type of recreation. Now,
however, our beautiful auditorium with its ex-
cellent acoustics fills this long-felt need, and up
to the present time three outstanding programs
have been presented. The enthusiastic support
given the musical and lecture programs offered
indicates that there will be a demand for future
programs of this type. The programs were spon-
sored by civic organizations who paid a fixed

' charge for the use of the hall.

When this section of the building is in use,
steel gates are closed in the hallways bordering
the auditorium so that the remainder of the build-
ing will not be used.

The Music Room. This room and the gymnasium
are the two most extensively used spaces in the
whole plant, both being busy practically every
night in the week. Every afternoon, at the close
of school, one of the Girl
Scout troops holds a
meeting here. At night
the music room is taken
over by a community
orchestra, a city men’s
choral group, and a
county choral organiza—

‘ tion of mixed voices.

Future Use of Facilities

Since the first year in
this new plant has been
'one of experimentation,
' one must look to the
future to visualize the
great benefits it will
bring to this typical
‘American community.
Our enthusiasm, during
this period, has been sub-
jected to rigid control in
order that we might not
undertake a program
which would prove over-

ambitious. The success of the program to date
warrants a look into the future.

The groups now using the gymnasium should
form an excellent nucleus for starting an evening
program on our outdoor athletic facilities. It is
not hard to visualize our fields teeming with men
and women during the spring and fall engaged in
tennis, softball, (handball, archery, shuffleboard,
badminton, and horseshoes. Under proper guid—
ance this program has unlimited possibilities.

In looking to the future, adult education with
its vast contributions to the intellectual and social
life of the city, shares a large part of the picture.
The ideal place to start this prOgram would seem
to be the rooms provided for special vocational
subjects. There are a great number of men who
would appreciate using our well-equipped machine,
electrical, automotive, and wood working shops
under competent instruction.

The Domestic Arts Department, with its cook-
ing and sewing laboratories and its model suite,
could offer a program in cooking, sewing, and

homemaking adaptable to women of all ages.
(Continued on page 398)

The site on which Rochester's beauti-
ful new school is built covers thirty-

three and a third acres. The athletic
field alone contains twenty-five acres.

 

A Frolic for Teachers

teachers become so in—

volved in the multitudin-
ous affairs that plans for
their own recreation are push-
ed into that great limbo of
“when I have more time.”
Realizing that teachers need
recreation and physical ac-
tivity as much as shop girls,
factory workers, and tired
business men, the Teachers’
Council appointed a commit-
tee to “do something about
it.” This committee of five teachers, four women
and one man, met with the health education di-
rector of the'Y.W'.C.A. to plan a recreation time
for teachers. The Council approved the plan; the
teachers voted favorably for its adoption and
began to look up suitable play clothes.

Wednesdays from 3:30 until 11:00 P. M. was
chosen for the time. It was to be “ladies only”
from 3:30 until 7, then men teachers, husbands,
and escorts were invited to enter all activities. A
schedule giving time, events, and all necessary in-
formation was mimeographed and sent to each
teacher. School officials were cooperative in “call—
ing off” Wednesday after-school meetings; all
costs were paid by the Council for a period of
fourteen weeks, and all the teachers had to do was
to manage to get to the Y.

From 3 :30 until 8 there were badminton, darts,
and table tennis in the gym, shuffleboard in the
hall, and swimming in the Pool. At 4 o’clock and
at 7:15 came gym classes in the large, attractive
club room, with piano accompaniment to exercises
designed especially for teachers’ needs, and featur—
ing relaxation, reducing, and posture. Part of the
class period of forty—five minutes was given to the
discussion of diet, special exercises, and health
problems. At the same time, beginners’ swimming
classes were held in the pool.

At 8:00 P. M. there was country dancing in the
gym, when teachers, husbands, wives, i-and escorts
learned to do the graceful rye waltz, to polka, to
schottische, to do that Texas favorite “put your
little«foot,” to romp through the Virginia Reel.
A group always gathered around the piano to

352

l T OFTEN happens that school

By JANE DARLAND
Health Education Director
Young Women's Christian Association
San Antonio, Texas

We have all heard that there is nothing
new under the sunI and frequently recre-
ation workers wonder whether this is not
particularly true of co-recreational pro’
grams. But in San Antonio, Texas. the
Teachers' Council and theYou ng Women's
Christian Association have worked out
a plan which has some novel features.

obtain reference materialh—
the names and publishers of
music; books on dancing;
names of suitable victrola
records, so that they could
use these dances in their daily
teaching. They were not only
having a good time; they
were learning things that
would be of value in their
work.

All classes were taught and
all game leading done by the
two members of the Y.W.
C. A. health education staff. Members of the
Teachers’ Committee took turns. acting as hos-
tesses, one serving from 3:30 until 7; the other
from 7 o’clock on. Their duties were to see that
each teacher registered; that she learned the way
to the pool, the gym, or the club room; that she
had an opportunity to learn the game that she
wanted to play; that she met teachers from other

schools. As soon as a teacher learned a game she I

was enthusiastic about teaching it to someone else.
No one sat around, no one had to be urged to
enter into activity. They had come to play, and
play they did with undignified whoops and giggles!

The first week one hundred and twenty-one ad-
venturous souls came down to try it out; they
tried everything and liked it! The next day they
spread the word among their fellow teachers and
the idea was established. The plan received a
boost when one of the local papers, in its Sunday
edition, published pictures of teachers from dif-

’ferent schools playing table tennis and shuffleboard 5

and taking swimming lessons. The caption was
“They teach by learning to play.”

The first month quiet games were set out——
cards, Chinese checkers, jack straws, and others.
No one went near them. The teachers wanted to
bang at a badminton bird, to crawl under the ping-
pong table for a ball, to “swing that lady.” The
table games disappeared and no one missed them.

As a “special” just before the Christmas holi-
days the Teachers’ Committee furnished Christ-
mas tree name tags, Christmas games were played

and country-dancing was enjoyed in the club 1

(Continued on page 402)

l
I

- THE VALUES of recreational

The Recreational Life of Teachers

activity in the maintenance

of mental and emotional
health are being increasingly
recognized. Authorities agree
that such activity, indulged in
solely for the pleasure and
satisfaction derived from it,
is desirable and necessary for
every human being.

Since teachers are undeni-
ably human beings, they naturally require those
satisfying recreational experiences which all hu-
man beings need. Furthermore, since the teach-
ing profession involves certain fatiguing and dis-
integrating infiuences which constitute a definite
hazard to mental health, they particularly need
adequate recreational satisfactions to offset these
factors. Do they have these essential satisfac-
tions? Are they finding in their leisure hours
enough opportunities for full personal expres-
sion? Have teachers sufficient time, money, and
energy to insure an adequate recreational life?

It was in an attempt to contribute some infor-
mation in this field that an investigation into the
recreational life of teachers was initiated in the
fall of 1938. Information was gathered by means
of anonymous questionnaires, and supplemented
by diary records. Data were obtained as to time
allotments for leisure and non-leisure activities,
the variety and frequency of actual leisure activi—

' l ties, and the details of personal information nec-

l

excess of four years beyond

essary to an adequate interpretation of the data.
A brief description of the findings of this study

follows.

Description of the Group. A total of 734 mem-
bers of the teaching profession in the state of

'New Jersey comprised the group studied. Of

these, seventy per cent were
women. Sixty-nine per cent of
the women and thirty-two per
cent of the men were unmar-
ried. The average age was
thirty-five years. Education in

high school was reported by
forty-seven per cent of the
individuals. Large cities were

Some findings from a study
of the recreational life
and desires of teachers in
the state of New Jersey

By MARGARET MOLDASCHL
Elizabeth. N. J.

In the December issue of Recreation
there appeared an article on recrea-
tion for the public school teachers
of Kansas. CityI Missouri. Our read-
ers will find it interesting to com-
pare the findings of the study made
in that city of the recreational de-
sires and needs of teachers with this
report of the study made in Elizabeth
as presented here by Miss Moldaschl.

represented by fourteen per
cent of the group, small cities
by thirty-two per cent, towns
by forty-six. per cent, and
rural areas by eight per cent.
Supervisory or administrative
positions were held by four—
teen per cent of the group;
the remainder were actually
teaching. Thirty-nine per cent
were receiving salaries between
$1,500 and $2,000; almost one third were being
paid $2,000 or more. Thirteen years was the
average length pf experience in the profession.

Time Allotments. The average length of the
school day for the group was found to be 6.2
hours. The average time devoted to school work
after school hours was 9.9 hours weekly, or 1.4
hours daily. Maintenance time (that time de-
voted to eating, sleeping, care of self, care of
home, family, etc.) averaged 11.8 hours daily.
School day leisure averaged 3.1 hours; Saturday
leisure, 6.9 hours; and Sunday leisure, 8.3 hours.

Leisure Activities. A questionnaire check list was
used to obtain information regarding leisure ac-
tivities indulged in often, and once in a while.
When ranked according to the number of indi-
viduals who checked any participation, whether
frequent or infrequent, the following activities

led the list :

1. Reading the newspaper Checked by 95%
2. Attending the movies . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
3. Listening to radio news programs. . 89
4. Auto riding for pleasure . . . . . . . .. 87

5. Entertaining friends . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87

6. Reading non-fiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87

7. Writing letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84

8. Reading fiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 82

9. Attending church . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 81
10. Attending profes-
sional meetings . . . 81

When ranked with respect
to the number of individuals
who reported frequent partici-
pation, the high-ranking ac-
tivities were:

1. Reading the newspaper 89%

2. Listening to radio
news programs . . . . . 72

353

354 THE RECREATION/1L LIFE OF TEACHERS

3. Reading non~fiction Checked by 50%

4. Attending church . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 47
5. Reading fiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
6. Auto riding for pleasure . . . . . . . . . 44
7. Listening to radio classical music. . . 43
8. Listening to radio popular music. .. 41
9. Swimming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 41

IO. Listening to radio comedy and skits 35

Activities enjoyed by the greatest number of
individuals were: reading fiction, auto riding,
swimming, dancing, and legitimate theater. Ac-
tivities not enjoyed, but participated in to main—
tain social or professional status were: profes-
sional meetings (disliked by twenty-one per cent
of those individuals who reported them), exten-
sion courses, bridge, and club or lodge meetings.

Sex and age differences were apparent. Men of
the group showed a wider range of frequent ac-
tivities than did the women. A larger percentage
of men than women reported both active and
spectator sports. The activities of individuals
from twenty to thirty years of age differed dis-
tinctly from those of the older individuals. This
twenty to thirty year group was social and active
(visiting, dancing, swimming, walking) ; the
thirty to forty year group was serious minded
(newspaper and non-fiction reading, extension
course work, and professional meetings) ; the
group over forty was civic and welfare conscious
(church, civic, and welfare activities). There was
evidence, with each increasing age level, of a nar-
rowing down of the number and variety of differ-
ent activities taken part in often.

Only thirty per cent of the group reported that
their companions in leisure activities were for the
most part other teachers; sixty~five per cent indi—
cated that their companions were persons other
than teachers; five per cent said that they were
about equally divided between teachers and other
persons. Although the majority of the group in-

large number of these cases, the “facilities” were
limited to an occasional party or picnic. There was
some indication of desire for provision of recrea-
tional facilities, but in the main the tenor of ex-
pressed feeling was that there were sufficient other
recreational opportunities and companions outside,
which were preferred.

In response to a question as to activities de-
sired, but not participated in often now, I41
different activities were named. When ranked
according to the number of individuals who ex-
pressed such a desire, these ten activities led
the list:

I. Travel Named by 40%
2. Legitimate theater . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29

3. Golf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 20

4. Dancing -. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

5. Horseback riding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I7

6. Playing a musical instrument . . . . .. I6

7. Opera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I4

8. Creative writing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9

9. Serious study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9

IO. Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9

The reasons most often named for not partici-
pating in these desired activities were: lack of
money, lack of time, and lack of facilities.

Dissatisfaction with lack of recreational life was
quite general throughout the group. Most of the
complaints were that recreation was inadequate in
amount because of lack of time, which, in the
majority of instances was due to the pressure of
outside school work. Another complaint was that
those activities which were really enjoyed and
desired could not be participated in because of
insufficient money. A third complaint was that
fatigue, directly due to the nerve-wrackng char—
acter of teaching, prevented either undertaking or
enjoying recreational activities. Fatigue seems to
have been partly responsible, also, for the passive
character of many of the high-ranking activities; j

repeated comments pointed out that many of these 
individuals were habitually too tired to attempt ;
anything other than reading or listening to the 
radio. I

dicated relatively frequent association with the
opposite sex in recreational life, as high as twenty-
three per cent reported only very infrequent, if
any, such association.

The majority of school systems represented by
the teachers of this study do not provide recrea-
tional facilities for their
teachers. Seventy per cent
reported no facilities at all;
thirty per cent reported some
facilities provided by either
the school system or the local
Teachers’ Association, but
comments indicated that in a

Summary and Conclusions. Reading was by far
the outstanding leisure activity of this group; all
types of reading ranked high.
Fiction reading ranked first
among those activities re—
ported as most enjoyed; non-
fiction reading ranked first
among those activities named
as consuming much time.

(Continued on page 394)

"Once the potentialities of recreation
for personal development and satisfac-
tion are fully recognized by the teach-
ing profession' and imagination and in-
itiative in trying out new ventures are
brought into play. the possibilities in
recreational life should prove unlimited."

Play Schools for the Preschool Child

 

schools are operating for children of preschool
age. These units are a part of the Community
and Work Projects Administration recreation
f program. They had their initial beginning in the
lrequest from parents for suitable activities fori
[smaller children. Recreational services through-
] out the state offered many desirable activities for
l1 individuals from “six to sixty,” but few activities
.l were available for the preschool child except story-
! telling, sand play, juvenile playground apparatus
and some special activity features which were all
limo‘re or less a part of the summer playground
lprograms and in the main extended only over a
jperiod of nine to twelve weeks. From the recog—
inized need for activities for boys andgirls of the
’ preschool level emerged the state-wide play schools.
l
l

l IN THE STATE OF UTAH, fifty-two units of play

 

 

I
l
Under operation procedure, W-I.6 of the Rec-
reation Project of the Work Projects Adminis-
tration authorization of play centers for preschool
;children was established. The operating proced-
'j|ure set up standards which formed the nucleus.
i The major standards were:
I Play centers were to be set up for boys and

l,girls between the ages of three to six, who were
I ' . . . . . . .
not attending either public or private institutions.
' The centers were to be established in public
l

buildings which were sanitary, well lighted and

By
VERNE B. THORiiE

and

J ENA V. HOLLAND

Mr. Thorpe is State Director
of Recreation, Mrs. Holland.

Field Supervisor, Work Proj-
ects Administration of Utah
under whose auspices this ex-
periment in the development

of play schools is being con-
ducted throughout the state.

ventilated, with sufficient area to accommodate
various play activities.

Drinking water and toilet facilities were to be
available at the center.

The daily program was to consist of play ac-
tivities, with provisions for rest periods and lunch-
eon periods if considered desirable.

Leaders for recreation centers for the preschool
child would be selected from the personnel of the
Work Projects Administration files.

From this meager set of standards developed
the state-wide play school system. It was set into
operation by the following procedure:

The Work Projects Administration projects
were combed for persons who, through academic
training or practical training, might be developed
into eflicient leaders of the play school. The per-
sons selected for play school leadership then began
an intensive four-week training course at the
State University which consisted of child psy-
chology, mental health, recreational leadership,
dancing, rhythmics, craft, games, music, health
and storytelling for the preschool child. This pre-
liminary training was only the nucleus of the
training of the play school leaders. It was fol-
lowed by continuous, intensive, and effective in-
service training following the opening of the

play school.
355

356 PLAY SCHOOLS FOR THE PRESCHOOL CHILD

Uurmg the training of the leaders state news—
paper publicity of the proposed preschool set-up
brought many requests for play schools from pub—
lic agencies from many communities throughout
the state, and the organization proceeded in ac—
cordance with the requests.

Committee Organization

The organization began with a meeting of all
mothers in the community who had children who
would be eligible for play schools. At this initial
meeting policies of the play school were discussed
regarding adequate building facilities, supplies and
equipment, entrance regulations, program activi-
ties and the importance of an organization for the
mothers. Emphasis was placed upon the signifi-
cance of the mothers’ organization as the spon-
soring unit and as a regular unit for study pur-
poses. Offtcers of the mothers’ organization were
elected consisting of a president, vice-president
and secretary and the following committees:

Building Committee, Supply and Equipment Com-.

mittee, Finance Committee, Home and School Co-
ordination Committee and a Publicity Committee.

T hrOUgh the conscientious efforts of the local
3uilding Committee of the Mothers’ Club, ninety-
live per cent of play school facilities in the state
were provided by school boards in elementary
grade school buildings, or in junior high school
buildings if the elementary schools were over-
crowded. The remainder of the facilities were
provided in the children’s division of the new li-
braries throughout the state which had been built
recently under the Work Projects Administra-
tion construction pr0gram and were not yet equip—
ped for library use. In a few cases American
Legion rooms and other municipally owned build-
ings were used, but these were so few in number
that they were practically negligible. In only one
community in the state was the mothers’ organi-
zation obliged to raise money to pay for rental on
a play school building. The members of the
Building Committee of the mothers’ organization
got results!

The Supply and Equipment Committee was
furnished with informational material from the
W'PA State Recreation Office regarding the selec-
tion of suitable play equipment and materials for
the preschool child, and in addition to this. service
consultants were available from the state staff to
assist them with their selections. These commit—
tees not only had the responsibility of the selec—
tion of materials such as modeling clay, educa-

tional toys, crayons, story books, toys, and paper,
but were also responsible for the standard play
school equipment consisting of sand boxes, aquari-
ums, tables, chairs, library tables, easels', lockers,
and outside playground equipment.

The Finance Committee assumed the responsi-
bility of meeting the expenses of the play schools.
This was done in many ways, the various plans
being adopted by the entire membershipof the
mothers’ organizations. The type of community
was an important factor in determining the pro-
cedure. In the well-to-do communities, the moth-
ers preferred contributing a dollar a month, and ,
in addition donated many interesting things to the
play school. However, wherever the mothers pre-
ferred to contribute to cover the expenses, there
was a definite understanding that no child would
be eliminated if his parents were unable to con-
tribute. No such problem arose, however, under
the plan followed, as one dollar per year is suf-
ficient for play school materials and supplies once
the equipment has been purchased.

In other communities the Finance Committee
sponsored money raising entertainments such as
bazaars, teas, variety shows. In one community
arrangements were made for a special Saturday
morning movie matinee showing a good children’s
picture. Forty dollars was raised from this proj-
ect. In other communities child welfare organi-
zations, city recreation departments, parent-
teachers’ associations, civic clubs, local school
boards and various public agencies furnished
funds for the operation of the play school. In
many instances, in rural communities the fathers
of the preschool children made the tables, sand
boxes, easels and other play equipment according
to specifications sent out from the state office.

The financing of the play school was not a
difficult problem because of the unique and ap-
propriate procedures which were used that were
typically individualistic and applicable to the spe-
ciiic community which adopted them.

The Social Committee cooperated well with the
Finance Committee in communities where money
raising entertainments were the means of obtain-
ing finance. In addition to working with the Fi-
nance Committee, the Social Committee was re-
sponsible for all socials of the parents, parents
and children, and children’s entertainments. Many
mothers became more interested in the organiza-
tion through attending the sewing bees, candy
pulls, toy making hours and other socials which
were planned by the Social Committee.

PLAY SCHOOLS FOR THE PRESCHOOL CHILD

The Home and School Coordination Commit-
tee was one whose functions were of paramount
importance, as home and school cooperation is
indispensable in the play school program. The
responsibilities of the Home and School Coordi-
nation Committee consisted of the planning and
development of study conferences which were
scheduled regularly once a month. The commit—
tee was responsible for scheduling the dates,
places of meetings, topics and selecting group
leaders. Specialists in the Field of child develop-
ment were often used as discussion leaders and
such topics were discussed 'as: Wise Selections
of Toys for the Preschool Child; Habit Training
in Play; Guiding Emotional Development in Play
Situations. The Home and School Coordination

“Committee influenced parents to visit the play

school at least twice each month to see their chil-

' dren in play situations under leadership. The
"Icommittee was responsible for having the mother

' when called in to approve

t of play schools through-

,of each child attending play school attend every
study session and visit the play school at least
twice each month.

The Publicity Committee kept the community
'informed of play school developments, of study
conferences which were open to the public, of
socials, and of changes in policies of the school.

All committees consisted of a chairman and two
members, except the Finance Committee and
Home and School Coordination Committee each
of which had a chairman and three committee
members. All committees functioned through the
entire year. This organization made it possible to

I use every mother in each play school unit.

\Vith this local organization functioning effec—

t tively there was little need for state recreation

1 officials to spend much time
in the community, except

ivarious developments.
Consequently organization

out the state developed at
an amazingly rapid prog—
ress, and as a result fifty-
two units were established

in the period of a few
weeks.

The Program

At the outset it was evi-
dent that the limited num—
ber of trained leaders

357

could not handle adequately the number of pre-
school children whose parents wished to send
them to the play schools. In order to have a play
school which would be conducive to good whole-
some personality development and would have
proper facilities and leadership, a state ruling was
made which allowed the twenty children nearest
school age in the community to attend each unit
of the play school. The regular attendance of
twenty children was maintained by a state-wide
regulation which stated that if a child was absent
more than three days in succession without an
excuse, he would be replaced by a child who was
next in line on the waiting list. Whenever a child
moved from the community or, for any other rea—
son was replaced by another child, both the new
child and his mother be'came members of the play
schooL

One play school leader conducted two unitsof
play school each day. The units were set up from
9:00 A. M. to 12:00, and from I :30 P. M. to 4:00
P. M. In some communities the opening and the
closing time was adjusted to meet school bus
schedules or to coincide with the public .school
hours so that the small children could accompany
their elder brothers and sisters to and from play
school. But in all instances the centers through-
out the state operated not less than two and one-
half hours per session.

The activities carried on at the play school are
most intriguing to the preschool child. Before the
child can participate in the activities he is given a
daily health inspection by the play school leader
before entering group activities. Play school

(Continued on page 398)

 

Caurtesy Journal of Health and Physical Education

Preparation for Recreational Leadership

AVE YOU, as a faculty

member, ever been

asked to help conduct
a party for a group of junior
or senior high school stu—
dents? Well, if not a party,
perhaps you assisted with
the entertainment at a so-
cial hour, an evening meet—
ing of the parent-teachers
association, or just a get- .
together of the faculty. If you have been called
upon for this type of extra—teaching duty, the
perplexing problem of how to make the event
enjoyable for all has arisen.

Do You ever sit with your head in your hands
pondering what to do with the students during
the noon hour? How do' you provide wholesome
activity for the rural students awaiting the arrival
of the bus after school has been dismissed? Have
you been asked to act as an adviser for a group
interested in organizing a club? Would you like
to extend the services of the school to include
rich and varied recreational activities for the en-
tire community? Are you planning a summer
playground? What will constitute the activities
on the all school picnic?

These are some of the problems dealt with in
the course in recreational leadership at Colorado
State College of Education. Obviously the fun-
damental objective is training for recreational
leadership. A second objective is to discover
means of providing the facilities necessary for a
functional recreation program. In so far as it is
expedient, the emphasis is upon activity, since we
hold that in this instance at
least experience is the best

When an educational institution
subscribes to the belief that
experience is the best teacher

By PERCY O. CLAPP

Associate Professor

Physical Education
Colorado State College of Education

cation is made. Half of the
class time, one hour a day,
is given to laboratory work,
leadership in social activi-
ties. The other period is de- ‘
voted to class discussion
and lecture. '

On every hand we hear
agreement with the phi-
losophy of recreation
leaders. “Yes,” it is said,‘i
“everyone needs wholesome recreation, but we I,
simply haven’t enough funds to provide it.” Since
the lack of money is the first excuse offered for
failing to provide such programs, we attack the"
problem from this angle and prove, through actual
practice on the campus, that recreation can be had
at nominal or no expense. Embryonic recreation
leaders learn to make the necessary equipment
and to find new uses for old facilities. A by-
product of the course is the enjoyment students
find in creating the gadgets and devices used in
games. Elaborate equipment is oftentimes impos- _
sible to secure without community support. How-
ever, if the initial recreational program is favor-
ably received, funds for its enlargement will be
forthcoming.

How It Is Done

This experimental course is steadily groping
toward a larger and more specialized work in the
recreation field. At the present time, two more
specialized courses are offered on the campus. '
Even though the summer session of eight weeks
is not sufficient time to develop experts in recre— '

ational leadership, each of 'l
the approximately one hun-

teacher.

The school is often ac-
cused of teaching impracti-
cal theory. Too frequently
this is a just criticism. In
an attempt to prove our
particular theory, that rec-
reational leadership can be
developed only thrOUgh ex—
perience in leading social
groups in activities, provi-
sion for its practical appli-

358

The training techniques enumerated in this
articleI Mr. Clapp points out. are not ade-
quate for the development of recreation
directors or specialistsl but they suffice for
a cursory view of the recreation field. The
purpose is to spread the philosophy of rec-
reation for all. in the school and the com-
munity. An attempt is made to inculcate the
belief that everyone is entitled to recrea-
tion regardless of age or economic levels.
Beginning with an altruistic motive the rec-
reation worker learns as he proceeds that his
work helps him gain the same satisfactions
and happiness he is trying to bring to others.

dred students is given the;
experience of conducting a t
large group engaged in social .
activities. The class is di- "
vided into six committees
headed by student chairmen.
In addition to the daily ‘
laboratory period, the en-
tire class meets on Wednes-
day evenings each week of
the quarter for a social
hour. Other interested

PREPARATION FOR RECREATIONAL LEADERSHIP

students attend, often swelling the number of
participants to four hundred or more. The first
social hour is conducted by the instructor. In
turn each of the six committees is responsible for
the following six programs, all cooperating on
the last night. The instructor is available for
consultation and is in attendance at the Wednes—l
day night meetings, though the students of the
committees are encouraged to solve their problems
without his help.

To insure variety and experience in more than
a limited number of activities, the committees fol-
low a general outline in planning their programs.
The first forty minutes of the evening tax the
ingenuity of the committee members. They must
plan a progressive party, using only homemade
’equipment which might be accessible in any com—
munity. Each succeeding committee must pro-
vide a different set of games and stunts. This
results in novel and interesting activities un-
dreamed of by the unimaginative. For the re—
maining fifty minutes, everyone joins in simple
dance rhythms.

At least four of the five following types of
rhythms are used each week. For an ice—
breaker, circle dances such as the Sche-
bogar, the Rueben, or Captain Jinks serve
admirably. To the swing of popular music
the students dance the couple dances, the
Schottische, Polka, La Varsovienne, and
the Rye \Valtz. Once the ice has been broken
the square dances are favorites with all.
'The W'altz Promenade, Divide the Ring,
Birdie in the Cage, Fall Back Six, Hinkey
Dinkey Parley Voo, and numerous others
i are enjoyed. The Virginia Reel and the Paw
.Paw Patch, among other double line for-
‘mation dances, help to establish rapport
{among the dancers. Particular emphasis
'is placed upon rhythms in which three

“individuals make up the dancing group,
'either two girls and one boy or two boys
,and one girl dancing the Crested Hen,
'Come Let Us Be Joyful and the Old Gray
Mare. This formation successfully accom-
modates unequal distribution of the sexes.

Two stringent rules govern the con-
:luct of the party: The committee must
:ompel dancing couples to change part-
aers at frequent intervals and non-par-
:icipants are invited to join in the activi-
‘iies. “In the activities, or out of the
way,” is the motto.

359

Within the same general pattern previously
outlined, four of the nights are set aside for group
activities in which one or all the groups play the
same game or dance the same rhythm simultan—
eously. To prepare for their night in conducting
the party, each committee holds several meetings
outside of the regular class period. In these meet—
ings each member of the committee receives in-
struction in various rhythms and games and is
given an opportunity to conduct the group in one
or more activities. Since more than half of the
members of the class have not had any experi—
ence in this type of recreational leadership and
may be majors in social studies, or music, or ele-
mentary education, or school administration and
the like, detailed instruction is absolutely neces—

sary. Many are entirely without experience even
in social dancing.

In keeping with the statement made earlier, that
the entertainment should cost very little, the music

Increasingly schools are training their
students for the wise use of leisure time

 

Courtesy Los Angeles Public Schools

360 PREPARATION FOR RECREATIONAL LEADERSHIP

for these parties is furnished by a single piano.
In this instance a professional is paid for his
services, but in small communities even,this ex-
pense may not be necessary. Occasionally one of
the students provides an accompaniment to the
piano. Since it is our theory that good entertain-
ment may be had at nominal expense, we place
emphasis upon activity rather than passivity.
Hence students tend to develop an interest in en-
tertaining others with types of activities free from

the expense of elaborate equipment. The ma—-

jority of students find these weekly socials a source
of wholesome fun. TrUants from socials are few.

Laboratory Work

A part of the class lecture period is devoted to
the discussion of constructing the necessary equip-
ment for these parties preliminary to laboratory
work. In the laboratory students are required to
construct at least one game, either a manipulative
puzzle, a throwing game or a paddle game; and
in addition each student makes a puppet, some
archery equipment, an airplane or any other article
requiring the practice of handicrafts; they learn
how to make useful articles from discarded
materials. As Miss Dorothy Enderis, Assistant
Superintendent of Schools in Charge of Recre—
ation at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, has said: “Rub-
bish is material misplaced.” That is, many useful
articles can be salvaged from discarded ma-
terials. With very limited equipment no attempt
is made to create specialists in manual arts or
handicrafts. Rather, the aim is served if the stu-
dents learn that equipment for parties can be
made with little expense and a great deal of
pleasure. Each committee is required to construct
a puppet set and enact a short drama before the
class.

During one week of the laboratory period,
every available table game and puzzle is played
by the entire class. Games suitable for various
age groups such as mill, wari, ruma, go, caroms,
chess, anagrams and card games receive special
instructional attention. Each member of the class
‘ is required to become familiar enough with each
game to be able to explain to others how it is
played. The value of these games to actual school
programs is brought out in several examples. Any
or all of these games are' readily available for noon
hour programs at school. Some games are ex-
cellent devices for the teaching of subject matter.
For example, anagrams give splendid practice in
spelling; dominoes and cards may serve to teach

arithmetic; and geography can be made more
interesting with the aid of map puzzles. As each
student constructs at least one game from inex-
pensive materials, the program is exceptionally‘
practical for small school systems limited in pro—.
viding recreational facilities by inadequate funds.

One week of the daily lecture period deals with.
highly organized games for co-recreational groups.‘
An hour in the late afternoon is set aside for prac-',.
tice of these games, and although students are not;
required to attend, a majority of the members of“
the class do. The program is conducted by the.
instructor. Teams are organized to compete in a,
tournament for the purpose of instruction in con—i.
ducting competitive play. In addition to the team,
games of volleyball, cage ball, cork ball, and.
Indian ball, dual and individual games are played.
Badminton, archery, pateca, paddle tennis, jali, and,
boccie are the most popular individual games..
Most of the games can be constructed by anyone.
from inexpensive materials. '

Games of low organization require less skill and,
are governed by simpler rules than highly organized.
games. As students are not familiar with the,»
range of offerings in this area, a full week of class,
time is delegated to their study. Thirty to forty
games and stunts with their variations are studied,-

. played and appraised through tournament play.

Among these games are the vigorous and active
dare base, and relays. Less active games, such-
as stride ball, dodge ball and duck on the rocks
are taught.

The quiet games like buzz, and beast, bird,
fish are illustrated. Games requiring little room:
and small numbers for their play are particularly"
important because their activity is adaptable to‘
small party groups. Among these are darts, ring:
toss and box hockey.

The group receives instruction in the use of 
council ring as well as storytelling, dramatizing
and group singing. Within the committees each;
member tells a story. The committee also presents
a drama to the class, more often than not the pup--
pet show mentioned earlier. On the annual class
picnic several students take turns in leading group.-
singing. Throughout the course, methods in recre--
ational leadership are applied in the many activi---
ties. Schools and other organizations in the sur-
rounding community provide at least thirty oppor--
tunities for experience in leading recreation groups: ‘
outside of the class. After the first experience in?
conducting a party, the student gains confidence
and a genuine interest in leading recreation.

Objectives of a Program
of

Extra-Curricular Activities in High School

By EUGENIE C. HAUSLE

James Monroe High School
New York City

H

can reach a large number of pu-
pils, while interscholastic sports
are restricted to comparatively
few. Clubs, the activity most
frequently thought of when extra-curricular ac-

HOULD THERE be a system of
8 awards? Should all pupils
be required to participate
' in extra—curricular activities?
Should extra-curricular activities be counted to—

ward graduation? Should there be faculty super-
_vision? If so, should the teacher receive this as
an assignment or should it be voluntary? These
and many similar questions form the basis for a
philosophy underlying an extra-curricular pro-
‘grain in a high school.

When a subject is introduced into the curricu-
lum the aims and objectives are set forth and then
'procedures are established whereby it is hoped

I that the aims and objectives can be best realized.

We have introduced extra—curricular activities into
. the secondary schools; but have we clearly defined
our aims and objectives? Extra-curricular activi-

‘ ties exist in every school, but are the teachers

I

l

aware of the aims and objectives and do they
makes their pupils conscious of the aims?

The author sets forth character training for
.decent living in a democracy as the broad purpose
of extra-curricular activities, with special empha-
sis on two of the seven cardinal principles, namely,
'worthy Use of leisure and training for citizenship
as two specific objectives.

Let us see how we can organize a program with
these objectives in mind. All extra-curricular ac-
tivities can be put into four main divisions: (1)
Athletics —inte1‘scholastic and intramural; (2)

l
| clubs—subject, hobby, welfare, hon‘orary; (3)

l

l

semi-curricular—those for which a school may
-' grant subject credit; (4) citizenship—service.
' Athletics, while fulfilling a health objective, can

i also be made a lesson in

worthy use of leisure and
decent living by placing
the emphasis not on mus-
cle building or the winning
'of an event but on sports-
manship and fair play. In-
gtramural sports become far
more important because they

When

extra-curricular
the approbation of administrators and are
properly organized and centralizedI they
will become an important means of achiev-
ing the goal of education as set forth by
the Commission on the Reorganization of
Secondary Education. This is the thesis
of this article. which is reprinted from

School and Society, April 22,

tivities are mentioned, do not always receive the
proper attention. Frequently a teacher is assigned
to a club as an additional task, and instead of using
the club to carry out an objective, it becomes a
burden. A faculty adviser should herself be so en-
grossed in the purpose that it will be a pleasure to
meet the group. However, the teacher’s enthusiasm
must not make her dominate the c1ub,but she should
be a source of inspiration to the pupil members.

Types of Clubs

Clubs do not all fulfill the same purpose in the
entire setup. For this reason the author has
divided clubs into four types: (1) Those which
grow out of the curriculum and return to enrich
it—these are the “subject” clubs, such as lan-
guage clubs, history clubs, mathematics clubs;
(2) those which are not directly connected with
any curricular subject but nevertheless are neces-
sary for proper enjoyment of leisure time—these
are the “hobby” clubs, such as stamp collecting,
radio, and many others, for one needs an avoca—
tion as well as a vocation in order to live a full
life; (3) those which are planned to develop a
charitable and altruistic attitude—these are the
“welfare” clubs, such as Junior Red Cross, on
which greater emphasis should be placed in order
to develop in the pupils a better understanding of
brotherly love and sympathetic aid in distress; and
(4) those in which membership is restricted to
pupils who have fulfilled
certain prerequisites. These
are the “honorary” clubs,
such as Arista, and Service
League, to which only quali-
fied pupils are elected. It
should be noted that social
clubs as such were omitted,
for social graces and ameni-

361

activities receive

I939.

3b2 OBJECTIVES OF A PROGRAM OF EX TRA—CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES

ties should be a part
of every club. All
clubs should have
occasional parties,
and similar events
to help in person-
ality development.

From the descrip-
tions of the various
types of clubs it is
evident that differ-
ent types of teach-
ers are necessary if
the program is to
be carried out with
the best results. A
teacher may be will-
ing to assist but she
may not be suited'
by temperament to
run a particular
club or she may not
have a sufficient
fund of knowledge
to be an inspira-
tional leader. For
this reason teachers
should not be as-
signed at random
but rather invited to
conduct a club, and then a
teacher should be permitted to
sponsor a club only if she is
wholeheartedly willing to do
so. A sponsor of a club should be an “adviser”
to whom the members may go for advice; one
who has a wholesome effect upon the pupils by
way of character building. In all types of clubs
the sponsor must not lose sight of the main ob—
jectives of an activity program.

Semi-curricular activities afford a very im—
portant means of carrying out the'_main objective
—decent living in a democracy. The author USES
the name “semi-curricular” because in some
schools the activity is entirely extra-curricular,
with no credit toward graduation, and in others
the activity receives partial or full credit toward
graduation. However, even in the latter case,
much more time is devoted to the activity than is
required of a prepared subject. This group in—
cludes such activities as orchestra, band, glee club,
the school newspaper and school magazine.

These activities, besides providing enjoyment to

 

Hobbies are important int-the school's
program of extra-curricular activities

the members, should
be used to empha-
size the main objec-
tive. Here the spon—
sors have a wonder-
ful opportunity to
show the pupils the
necessity for team—
work and coopera—
tion; to demonstrate
the fact that they
cannot be individ—
ualistic, but all must
work together to
produce something
worthwhile. Fur-
thermore, worthy
use of leisure is real—
ized by instilling a
love for beautiful
music and a desire
to read good litera-
ture. With the em-
phasis on the beau-
tiful there must be
a carry-over into
decent living.

The fourth group
is of activities that
are called “citizen-
ship” activities because through
them we can realize the second
of the specific objectives men-
tioned. What a wonderful op-
portunity to teach democratic ideals through this
grOUp! Here we can develop Within the pupil
those responsibilities and powers whereby he can
find his place in the world so that he can help
make it a better place to live in. Surely here the ‘
pupils need able advisers to help them reach this
goal which they of themselves cannot fully un—
derstand without the mature experiences of their
teachers.

This group includes all service activities and
elective or appointive positions of the governing
bodies of the students. Here we find all types of
service—clerical in departmental and administra-
tive offices, patrol and traffic, lunch room, besides
service as ofiicers of the senior class, general or- ’
ganization and other executive student groups.

Pupils must be shown that it is necessary to
work together for the common 'good of all and

(Continued on page 339)

Courtesy WPA, New York City

A Children’s Theater Takes to the Road

NLY THE covered
0 wagon is missing

from the pioneer
efforts of the Junior
Leagues’ children’s theater. If we can substitute
for the picturesque covered wagon an ice truck
or station wagon or trailer, even the visible sign
is very much in evidence. There are now about
forty—seven groups of itinerant players, composed
of young women whose volunteer work for their
communities is the producing of plays, trouped to
schools in every section of a city, to rural class
rooms, to settlements and hospitals, with a total
audience during the past season of over three
hundred and fifty thousand children.

For almost twenty years Junior Leagues have
been very busy at the job of providing theater for
children. They have constantly endeavored to
demonstrate to other organizations and individuals
the vital part that theater can play in the develop-
ment of the child. Today the
picture is vastly different
from the‘ early twenties.

By VIRGINIA LEE COMER
Children's Theater Department
Association of the Junior Leagues of America. Inc.

Children of Philadelphia's Jackson School

watch a League performance of "Cinderella"

There are now a scat-
tering of civicand uni—
versity theaters giving
heed to the child audi-
ence. W ithin the last few years the resources for
professional entertainments which can be imported
have widely increased. Series programs of operas,
plays and ballets have been set up, and while in
many places these remain the responsibility of the
local Leagues, there is an increasing number of
community boards formed to administer the} pro-
grams, boards composed of representatives from
schools, recreation departments, parents’ groups,
and others. Although trouping programs cover
only about one third of the total scope of chil-
dren’s theater activities of one hundred and forty
Leagues, trouping is typical of the pioneer spirit
and is certainly the most unique contribution in
the field.
In the early years plays produced for a child
- audience were by no means
a part of the Junior League
community service program,

 

363

364 A CHILDREN’S THEATER TAKES TO THE ROAD

but were used as a method of raising money for
the support of welfare projects. Those handsome
and massive productions of The Blue Bird, Peter
Pan and the 02: stories in Chicago Loop’theaters,
at the Copley in Boston, in Cleveland’s Severance
Hall, brought in a large amount of money. Their
real significance, however, lay in the fact that they
served to open the eyes of League members to
the real need of their own children for such en-
tertainment. Finding that the plays not only pro~
vided an afternoon’s wholesome entertainment but
also stirred the imagination and created lasting im-
pressions, the members began to seek ways in
which a greater number of children could share
in this experience. Although it was possible to
bring children from institutions and distribute
free tickets through welfare agencies for special
performances, still there was no way of reaching
the great majority of a community’s children.

The Trouping Program

Slowly and pragmatically, through increasing
experience with audiences, League volunteers de-
ve10ped their philosophy of children’s theater,
based on the conviction that all children should
have the delight of dramatic entertainment and
should be given the opportunity to know and
understand the theater as a part of their cultural
inheritance. This attitude created the drive which
has led to the development of the trouping program.

The principle of trouping rests on the fact that
a great many more children can see a play if it is
taken to already assembled audiences than when
children come from many sections of a community
to a centrally located auditorium or theater. How-
ever, there is great variety in the programs
planned since the needs and facilities vary from
one community to another. It has been the sincere
effort of each League to avoid duplication of
effort and program and to investigate its com-
munity in order to determine the best program to
meet the greatest need. In this they have been
assisted by the professional staff of the Children’s
Theater Department of the Association of the
Junior Leagues of America. In certain instances
help has.been derived from existing surveys of
recreation programs, studies of delinquency, and
similar sources. Always the advice and coopera—
tion of educators and recreation workers is sought.

It has been found that by far the largest field
for trouping is in the public schools. In certain
cities full length plays are given after school hours
in elementary school auditoriums or high school

auditoriums to which teachers in nearby elemen-
tary schools bring their classes. Other programs
consist of a forty or fifty minute play performed
during assembly periods. Often it is necessary to
give two or three performances in one school in
order that all the children can see the play. 
some schools principals prefer plays planned for;
and seen only by selected grades. "

The question of whether admission will be
charged or performances will be free is left fore}
answer to the superintendent of schools. Where,
it is believed that children’s appreciation is in-‘;
creased by having to pay even a few pennies for:
entertainment, often the tickets are sold by the
teachers or the Parent-Teacher Association, the
proceeds going all or in part back to the schools:
for a milk fund, books or other equipment. Where
it is believed there should be no charges for enter-i
tainment, since the schools are tax supported, per-‘-
formances are free and are usually held during'
school hours. In either case the financial respon-E.
sibility is assumed by the League as a part of its
community service program.

A trouping program is particularly effective in),
a city such as Newark with its tremendous in—
dustrial population. The Newark League has just
completed its fourth year of trouping one play a
season with from thirty—five to fifty performances
of each play. The audience for the play has totaled
between twenty—five and thirty-five thousand each'
year and consists of children who had never seen'
a play other than one produced by their own-
efforts and few of whom can go to the movies.
The play has become a high point in the year for;
these children and a recent study of thousands of
letters shows that it leaves lasting impressions
because of the innumerable references to former
productions.

Similar programs are carried out in other large'
cities, among them Cincinnati, Chicago and Phila-J
delphia. In Los Angeles hundreds of miles of:t
traveling is necessary to cover the outlying sections!
of the city, from which it would be impossible forI
children to come to a centrally located theater.
1n smaller towns, such as Elmira and Little Rock,,
ten or twelve performances are sufficient to reach*'
every child in the elementary schools.

Where a series has been established to give seve-
eral programs a year to an audience usually limited,
to fifteen hundred or two thousand, the League is.
supplementing this by trOuping plays to those)
schools from which children do not attend the,"
series. This has led in a few instances to troup- q

A CHILDREN’S THEATER TAKES TO THE ROAD 365

ing to rural schools and the
trend seems to indicate that
Leagues will in future devote
considerable thought to the
problem of bringing enter-
tainment to the village and
country school, since children
“here have even less than those
in the large cities.

\Vhere it is possible, free
| performances are given in settlements. Illustrative
I of this is the New York program which consists
l of two plays a season, each given in six settle-

' I nents.

 

' Production Problems

; There is a general dearth of good plays for
if:hildren’s theater, but particularly hard to hnd
Hire scripts adaptable to trouping. This situation
ls leading more and more League members,
fhoroughly familiar with the problems of troup-
ing, to try their hands at playwriting. The results
I.re encouraging, and the manuscript library main-
.ained by the Children’s Theater Department of
rhe Association now includes some very workable
|cripts which are available for use in all the
,-.cagues, as well as to any other producing groups.
,Zharlotte Chorpenning of the Goodman Theater

.as been unfailing in her interest in the League
lnrogram and has adapted some of her long plays,
,ach as Cinderella, The Indian Captive and Alice
l '1 Wonderland, to meet the demands of trouping.
' "he trouping play must have a relatively small

’gst, since playing space on many stages is very
limited. More than two sets makes for difficulties,
lccause of lack-of storage space.

The technical problems involved in trouping
cave been manifold and although solutions have
ren forthcoming it is still a challenge to keep the
ftistic standard high in spite of _ fantastic
lifticulties.

I The same show must appear on one stage with
I 50 foot proscenium opening and the choice of an
‘ foot depth or a whole basketball court, and on
mother stage that is a curtainless small platform.

:lthough a portable cyclorama has been used with
time degree of success, the most popular and
ilaptable type of scenery consists of free standing
lreens. Screens take care of both the large and
'inall stage, since it is possible to vary the number
 units used, and they also overcome the problem
" hardwood floors where it is practically a
I'iminal offense to set a stage screw. In a few

 

 

 

In I938 plays were presented by ninety-
tour Leagues, while thirty-four worked
in the field of puppetry and titty-seven
gave radio programs. There were 826
performances of ninety-two productions
which played to audiences of more than
350.000. Players in forty-eight cities
trouped from school to school, and pro-
ductions were also given in hospitals
and settlements in a number of cities.

cities where by some miracle
all stages are equipped with
curtains, set pieces are used
to advantage. A survey is
made of all stages before the
production is planned, and
most groups have discovered
the advantage of having blue-
prints of each stage. They
have been made in many
cases by high school students in mechanical draw-
ing courses.

Lighting for a production presents real diffi-
culties because of the lack of equipment in the
majority of schools. Even in new auditoriums
that have been expensiver equipped, the layout is
apt to be indexible and the instruments inefficient.
The old-timers in trouping now have portable
equipment, usually consisting of two floods and
four spots, which is effective even where there is
no permanent equipment.

Ingenuity must be exerted in the construction
of large props, since few stages are planned with
off stage storage space.

Because few props can be used, these must be
carefully designed so that each contributes the
maximum in effect to the total stage picture.

Costumes, not being affected by the limitations
of trouping, become the most dominant element in
the production.

Commercial hauling of the show is almost
always prohibitive in cost and this has resulted in
the use of trailers, station wagons, and U-Driv-It
trucks. Sometimes inexpensive hauling is possible
by employing an iceman, whose truck is available
after early morning hours.

Since the technical problems are now thoroughly
familiar and can be foreseen and the organiza-
tional routine has been perfected, it has been pos-
sible, in the last two years, for groups beginning a
trouping program to assume long schedules at the
outset. Where once a block of ten or twelve per-
formances was arduous, now Leagues can begin
with schedules of twenty or thirty performances.

The Advantages of Trouping

The trouping of plays to children demonstrates
the unique place which volunteers can take in a
recreation program by supplying a service it would
be impossible to provide otherwise. The trouping
program offers certain advantages both in the
field of children’s theater and to the volunteers.

(Continued on page 402)

What They Say About Recreation

a place where boys and girls enjoy a long

and successful experience in democratic
living. . . . Will you tell the children what is good
or will you help them develop the power to dis-
tinguish between good and bad? Will you make
their decisions for them, or guide them in the
practice of making their own decisions wisely?
Will you be satisfied with helping them learn what
the book says, or will you, as Emerson said, help
them ‘learn to detect and watch that gleam of light
which flashes across the mind from within’ i”—
From School and Society, November, 1939.

” A s TEACHERS our function is to make the school

“Teachers and parents are realizing today the
fertile fields of teaching inherent in 'the spontan—
eous play of the child. Psychiatrists are laying
stress on play as a balancing element contributing
to sane and more effective living. The new ap-
proach, however, is not so much concerned with
big muscle building; rather it aims to create
wholesome personalities, living and livable human
beings, people who can find relaxation and rest
from the growing complexities of an increasingly
tense milieu, people who really know how to live.”
—John E. Davis in Hygiene.

“Certainly the most important change that is
coming into the new world is that work is going
to take a secondary place; and in so far as our
children’s education assumes that work is the chief
thing in our life, it will fail. . . .”—John Landon
Hughes.

“Often the best way to improve the contribu-
tion of the teacher is to raise the teacher’s own
level of satisfaction in living. Some teachers are
so unselfisth devoted to their work that they lose
out a little bit as persons. That is penny wise,
pound foolish. Let me advise that you get out
and have enough fun on your own. Keep up your
own sense of zest and adventure. Build up warm
personal relationships with other human beings.
. . . Take time to read what you want to read, to
enjoy some forms of art, and to associate with
the springtime. The river of personality guidance
cannot flow higher than its source.” Goodwin Wat-
son in Journal of Health and Physical Education.

366

“To ‘reshape reality’ is the true function of the
teacher. To leave the community a little better
than one finds it, to breathe a new spirit into the
school, to remould the life of a child started on an
unfortunate course —- this is the work of the
teacher confident of himself and of his aim.”—
From The Purposes of Education in American
Democracy.

“Education must meet the practical needs of.
the developing world of today as they come into,
view, and the meeting of these practical needs will
be a significant accomplishment in itself. But,‘
after all, more than that must be kept in mindl
Education is not merely a meeting of these prac-
tical situations in themselves, but is a develop-
ment of the personality of the child in such a way
as to make him able, on the one hand, to get the
richest possible' experience out of life as an indié
vidual, and, on the other hand, to take part suc-‘
cessfully in the life of the community.”—From'
Safety Education, Eighteenth Yearbook of the
American Association of School Administrators.-

“Provide experiences which give pupils worth:
while Opportunities to feel the thrill of creating
things with their own fingers, of applying ari
principles to everyday life situations and of in;
terpreting the beauty in the culture of other lands
as well as our own. . . . The love of beauty is a
basic value that comes from participation in im
teresting and worthwhile activities rather that.
from listening to lectures about it.”——Agne.'
Samuelson in “Every Teacher an Art Teacher,’

School and Society. ‘

f

“The higher aim of education today is the de-i
velopment to the fullest extent of the growth oi!I
the individual, based upon a scientific understand- I
ing of all his needs and capacities. In so doing Wt 
,try to attune 011r own thinking to harmonize \Vltli
the student’s particular interests because we real.-
ize that in his interests lies the key to his needs anc
capacities. Education cannot supply individua I
capacities—these must be inborn; but it can stimu .
late and aid in their growth; it can educate thc
student by .giving him the opportunity to deveIO]
himself.”———From Dance, a Creative Art Experi

ence by Margaret H ’Doubler.

barrassingly popular -—- embarrassing be—

‘ UR TRAVELING marionette shows proved em-
' cause all the playgrounds wanted to “do

 

duction at ten centers was a greater time-consum—
3 ing job than the summer schedule permitted. We
- were racking our brains for a substitute when the
 bulletin of the National Recreation Association on
; shadow puppets came in the mail. It was provi-
dential and proved the solution of our problem.
Shadow puppets, of course, meant an indoor
performance, but as most of our playgrounds were
operated on school yards a show inside was pos—
sible. Auditoriums, stages and artificial lighting
were not available, so a classroom with a teach—
er’s desk on which to rest the screen, placed be-

"fore a day-lit window had to be our substitutes.

I These facilities were surprisingly effective, in
)lfact quite satisfactory. The screen had to be
demountab'le but this proved an advantage for it
could be easily transported in a rumble or a stor-
age compartment; and as it was designed to tie in
l place it could mar no one’s desk.

!
l

 

 

The Frame

’ The frame for the screen is made of 1% x %
linch pine, the inside opening measuring 36 inches
yhigh by 38% inches wide. The top of the frame
is 56 inches long; this allows an overhang of
seven inches at each side to carry the curtain when
.tit is pulled open. The curtain, hung on a heavy
{[wire which is run through three screw eyes, is
3 pulled open or closed across the front. It should

I i

them.” and to do them from creation through pro—-

 

By DOROTHY HEROY

Chairman
Board of Public Recreation
Stamford. Connecticut

be made of material heavy enough not to be trans-
parent.

The bottom piece of the frame is notched in
two places eight inches from each end. Into these
notches are fitted, and then bolted, two pieces of
1% x % pine 29 inches long. These are the braces
that extend across the desk to help hold the frame
in place. In the front end of each brace is a screw
eye. Into each of these is knotted a heavy cord.
These cords extend under the top of the desk to
the back where each is run through another screw
eye in the back of the frame and firmly tied. A
heavy piece of cloth (we used imitation black
suede made at a local factory) 14% inches deep
is first tacked across the back at the bottom of the
frame. This helps hide the cast which, even with
this aid, must be seated on a very low bench or on
kindergarten chairs. Back of this cloth dado is
stretched and tacked tightly a piece of cheap, thin
unbleached muslin. Straight across the back, 12%
inches from the bottom so that it runs flush with
the top of the black cloth, a piece of lattice one
inch wide is laid and held in place at each side of
the frame with small screws. The thin edge of
this slat gives a “floor” for the stage, a ledge for

367

368 I’UPPET SHADOW/S IVITH SUNSHINE

the puppets to walk on. Clear
across the front of the screen,
so that it projects a half inch
above the top line of the black
cloth, is placed a half round
(34), tacked at the ends with
brads. The space thus created
between the lattice or cleat
and the half round serves as a slot to hold the
pasteboard scenery and properties in place. The
curtains, to hide the cast, were made, because they
were a gift, of old bed sheets. These were cut
in half on their worn fold, then dipped the de-

sired color. .
A screw eye was put in the back of the frame

at each erid near the top; corresponding screw
eyes were put in the window frame behind, a
stout cord was run between these sets of screw
eyes and the curtains were thrown over the cords
and fastened in place. The daylight coming
through the window behind cast a very good
shadow. We chose, where Possible, a window
that did not have a tree or some other object just
outside, because we found such objects showed
through the muslin when they were too near.
Lastly, across the front of the table or desk was
draped a piece of crepe paper to match our color
scheme and to hide the feet of the cast.

The Plays and the Puppets

We were now ready to plan the plays and the
puppets. These had to be very simple for we were
novices with little ability to draw. For our pup-
pets we bought cut-outs from Milton Bradley
Company, 399 Codwise Avenue, New Brunswick,
New Jersey, dealers in school supplies. We pur-
chased one of each of the sets that contained the
characters we wanted to use. These served as pat-
terns for the children to trace, cut out and deco-
rate. Except for the heavy outlining of all edges the
decorations did not help the shadow, but it pleased
the small artists to make them.

Patterns for the properties such as trees, a well,
- and furniture were of homemade design on a
scale to fit the characters. The list of plays in—
cluded “Goldilocks and the Three Bears” and
certain Mother Goose rhymes
that offered a dramatic inci—
dent, such as “Jack and Jill,”
“Humpty Dumpty,” “The Five
Little Pigs,” “Little Miss Muf-
fet,” “Hickory, Dickory, Dock,”
these last two posing technical

No auditorium. no stage. no artifi-
cial lighting—just a. classroom. a
screen. ’a teacher's desk on which to
rest the screen. a day-lit window.
and you have an amazingly adequate
and satisfactory setting for these
ever-popular shadow puppet shows.

The bulletin on shadow puppets which
is referred to in this article is entitled
"Shadow Puppets ———Their Construc- '
tion. Operation. and Stage.” Copies
may be secured from the National Rec-
reation Association at ten cents each.

problems in the manipulation
of the spider and the mouse
that intrigued us and the chil-
dren. For each nursery rhyme
used we found a musical set-
ting. At the performance this
was first played by the rhythm
band, then sung by the play-
ground chorus.

The shadow puppet bulletin already referred to
and a copy of “Shadow Plays and How to Produce
Them” by Mills and Dunn were very helpful in
showing the construction and operation of the
figures, and as we met our own problems we de—,.
vised short cuts and niceties to suit the situation".
We used “oak tag” sheets 9 x I2, also purchased
from Milton Bradley Company, for the puppets!
and many of the properties. It is strong enough
to stand a good deal of wear, can be easily cut, an:
advantage for small fingers, and is inexpensive]
The larger properties had to be cut from card-
board. Pieces returned with the laundry served
nicely, and when they were not big enough they
were glued together.

In hanging a piece of property-“such as a moon
——on the screen, we fastened the head of a “T”
pin with a piece of adhesive tape on the back of.
each point of the moon, then bent the pins over
the front so they could catch and hang on the
muslin. The large flat head of the “T” pin oEers
more of a purchase for the tape than the head of

la dressmaker’s pin, usually suggested.

The sticks on which the puppets were mounted“.
were foot rules originally bought for the hand—"
craft program at 75 cents a gross, and which were I
just the right size when split in half. This was 1
done at the local W PA work shop of the Toy [
Lending Library. The sticks were fastened to the. -
puppets with adhesive or preferably Scotch tape. 9
For -wire we used heavy weight florist wire which '.
we purchased from a local shop, twelve pounds .i
for $2.25. 'This wire was already cut in 18-inchi'
lengths, saving us no end of time and trouble.

The shows “went over big” and played to such
capacity houses that a second show was often
necessary. While we shall not abandon marion-
ettes, we have discovered that
for .quick production on' a
large, inexpensive scale, the
shadow puppet offers a de-;
lightful medium with a
strangely fascinating appeal to
all ages.

PUPPET SHADOl/VS WITH SUNSHINE 369

 

The screen which fransforms a desk im‘o a sfage
where shadow puppefs delighf young and old alike

Antioch's Truck -Trel<s

NTIOCH COLLEGE has, in recent years, been
A operating tours for its students during
spring and summer vacation periods which
are unique and so simple and inexpensive as to
interest anyone who believes in “education by
travel.” These trips, in specially constructed
camping trucks, not only provide the means for
students of both sexes to see the country, but af-
ford an unusual experience in social living which
deserves particular notice. l
The expedition in the summer of I939 carried
nine boys and eleven girls over 8,000 miles of
western United States and Canada. It lasted for
ten weeks, and cost each student only $115—or
$11.50 per week—which is about what it would
Cost to remain at home. They drove through
eighteen states and two provinces of Canada,
visited ten national parks. and twenty industries;
attended the rodeo at Cody, Wyoming, the World’s
Fair in San Francisco, and spent a week cruising
on a sailing yacht in Puget Sound. Add to these
adventures sevehty—seven days of good fellow-
ship, the fun of campfires on mountains or beach,
the thrill that comes from carefree vagabonding,
the joy of healthful outdoor life, and you have a
“tremendous” summer.

They Travel in Comfort .

But what about the hardships of such an ad-
venture? Isn’t it necessarily limited to the most
rugged students? Not at all. The ingenuity of

 

370

\

Antioch is proud of its summer adventures
and is convinced they have unique educa-
tional values. To help promote the bene-
fits of this type of travelI the College
will be glad to provide other educational
institutions interested in initiating sim-
ilar proiects with information regarding
trucksI itineraries' and other details.

By SAMUEL HARBY
Assistant Professor

Health and Physical Education

_man has devised a new kind of magic carpet calledl
a Thorne-Loomis truck, whichenables any nor-‘.

mal young man or woman to travel in relative;
comfort and safety. It is truly a remarkable con-l

traption. Built on a heavy duty Chevrolet chassis,
it combines the features of luxury bus, comfort
sleeper, and dining car. When rolling this outfit

is compact and streamlined, permitting travel at a'
steady speed of fifty miles per hour. When set up]
for camping, it provides shelter, has ten steel;
spring bunks, with mattresses, attached to the:
truck frame so that wet weather and roughl
ground do not prevent sleep, a fully-equippedi

kitchen with two gas pressure stoves, a larder

cabinet, and an ice box. Tent canvas may be put;
up over all, and there is plenty of room for living;
under cover when the.

weather is bad. Canvas'
may also be put around::
the sides, but it rarely is,- I
because of the fun of:‘?
sleeping in the open.,
Even the roof is left offli
in clear weather and the. '

Backing the truck be-
comes a fine art. and
every available inch
of space is utilized .
as the campers pre- l
pare to move on to
the next stopping place

. ful places. You have

-_A'-' ‘— ‘—-

ANTIOCH’S TRUCK-TREKS

Paradise Valley and
Mt. Ranier with its

snow-clad peaks are
not too far away for
these travelers

group sleeps under a
canopy of stars.
This traveling
hotel can be set up in
fifteen minutes, and
in the most wonder-

only to choose your
spot—on the moun—
tain slopes of Para—
dise Valley, the soft
grass of Stagg Field
in the heart of Chicago, the back yard of Chateau
Lake Louise of the Canadian Rockies,“ or in a
vacant lot across from any city garage. You don’t
even need level ground, for it is easy to jack up

one side of the truck to put the outfit on an even
keel.

The high point of last summer’s trip was the
Puget Sound cruise. The trucks were set up on
one of the San Juan Islands, where they served
as a base camp from which our party took daily
cruises in a beautiful hfty-foot sailing ketch, the
“Ulanah,” chartered for a full week and paid for
out of the general budget. Usually half of the
party went on each cruise, and the rest remained

i" on shore eXploring the islands, washing clothes,
;.i swimming, writing diaries, and preparing fancy

meals for the others who were cruising. How—
Iever, the entire party of twenty piled on board
I for one three-day cruise to Victoria, B. C. The
two nights were spent on uninhabited-and almost
inaccessible islands, so that the party experienced
the thrill of exploration and discovery in the
adventure.

Industrial Visits

Industrial visits were a very.important part of
the tour, as is indicated by the name, “Antioch
Industrial Tours.” These guide trips through im-
portant plants in all parts of the country were ar-
ranged before we left Yellow Springs, and were
painstakingly carried out by cooperative local of-

371

 

hcials. In every case our group was given a better
point of view and a more comprehensive insight
into the industry visited than would have been
possible for any of us individually. Our indus-
trial visits included: '

U. S. Steel Mills, Gary, Indiana

Armour Packing Company, Chicago, Illinois

Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota

Leonard Copper Mine, Butte, Montana

Anaconda Reduction Plant, Anaconda, Montana

Grand Coulee Dam, Washington State

Navy Yards, Bremerton, Washington

Boeing Aircraft, Seattle, Washington

Rocky Mountain Canning Company, Salt Lake City,Utah
U. S. Mint, Denver, Colorado

—-and many other highly interesting and informa-
tive visits.

An Experiment in Community Living

From the standpoint of education and training,
perhaps the most valuable experiences of the tour
had to do with the ordinary daily events of group
living. It is not easy for twenty students to live .
together in close contact for ten weeks without
“getting in each other’s hair.” Unless every mem-
ber of the group. is willing to put himself out to
avoid little annoyances and to cooperate in the
work and play of camp life, it cannot be,done.
Here is simple community living, under controlled
circumstances, with an excellent opportunity to
condition the outcomes for good or bad. If a

(Continued on page 393)

 

A uHang Out” Room for Sioux City Youth

HAT DOES the term
W“hang out” room
mean to you?

To the Sioux City Junior League it is coming
to mean a fascinating new project which threatens
to grow out of all proportion to the modest start
planned for it.

It was Ferdinand A. Bahr, Director of the
Sioux City Recreation Department, who first
realized the necessity for a hang out place for
boys and girls of high school age and beyond, in
districts where homes are crowded and there is no
opportunity for them to get together in large
groups and play games, or just sit and talk them-
selves out about anything that may come into their
restless heads. A place where it would cost them
nothing to go and stay as long as they wished was
°the need. These young people, Mr. Bahr discov-
ered, would gather outdoors in the evening and
sit 0n the curb talking together when the weather
permitted; talking at random about all the things
which crowd the restless, searching minds of
young folks of the Mickey Rooney-Judy Garland
age.

The primary object of the hang out room is to
create for young people a home-like background
where they can work off their excess mental ener-
gies in a natural way, with no financial expenditure.

372

By LAURA CHILTON REYNOLDS
Sioux Ci’ryI Iowa

Looking about for help in
making this idea a reality,
the Recreation Department ‘
approached the placement chairman of the Sioux
City Junior League, who found the proper per-
sons for the job. The result is the hang out room
at Woodrow Wilson Junior High School, open on
Monday, Wednesday and Thursday evenings from
seven to nine-thirty. Chairs, a davenport, tables,
lamps, cardhtables, a radio, victrola, records, cards,
games and magazines were collected by the Junior
League and then arranged to the best advantage.
One member spent an entire week making drapes. ‘
A magazine committee was appointed whose func- -‘
tion it is to keep the magazines up to date each
week.

Of course it was not alone the Recreation De-
partment and the Junior League. There were
many sources of outside help. For instance, there
was Chester, custodian of the Woodrow Wilson
Junior High School building, who was a real
friend, capable of taking care of many of the in-
numerable odd jobs which always accompany
work on such a project.

Woodrow Wilson Junior High School is the
recreation center for its particular district of
Sioux City. The fact that the hang out room is

(Continued on page 395)

p
v

t

’ l

A Teachers’ Exchange Club

ITH THE assistance of the

Associate Superintend-

ent of Schools, Dr. Gerson, the name of
Teachers’ Exchange Club was selected for an or-
ganization designed to widen the interests of our
retired, disabled teachers. The professional status
which means so much to all of them was stressed.
The word “exchange” is intended to indicate the
nature of the activities, in which each person may
contribute according to her gifts. Exchange of
ideas and suggestions must be the first step. Later
special services may be made available, and ma-
terial gifts may be exchanged, beginning with
newspaper clippings and articles. To make trinkets
and favors, boxes of small seashells have been

. brought to the central office by a man living on a

' Florida beach; a woman living in the Pocono

Mountains is collecting hemlock cones to decor-
ate place cards and make other novelties; a
woman, bedfast because of arthritis and who can
move her hands only to the extent of wielding a
scissors, is making two scrapbooks for two other
shut—ins with the same disease. One teacher living
at a distance, as a thank offering because her pul-

.-monary tuberculosis is yielding to treatment, has

given us a subscription to Life magazine. The
word “club” is still only a suggestion; we are too
loosely knit to be able to depend upon officers
from among the group, although a well-adjusted
.blind teacher has been named honorary president.

Circulating Library

A gift of twenty new and talked about books
iWElS the nucleus of a free lending library. We
ltake advantage of the new low rate for mailing

:books when wrapped and
labeled according to the pre-
lscribed method —— only one
{and a half cent per pound.
{One of the patients, need-
ing useful occupation, has
catalogued the library and
sends out the books accord—
’ng to postcard requests
[from twenty—one of the
teachers circularized. A do-
nation of about a hundred

l . . .
)ooks in good condition but

By DOROTHY CHILD, M.D.

In an article appearing in the June |940 is-
sue of School Life, Dr. Child. Special As-
sistant. Philadelphia Board of Education. who
for fifteen years has certified for the State
School Employees' Retirement Fund all of
the Philadelphia teachers receiving disability
pensions. tells of an unusually interesting
venture. The club she describes grew out of
the need for widening the interests of these
retired teachers. many of whom Dr. Child
found to be lonely and unhappyand in need of
social adjustment. We present extracts from
the article used by courtesy of School Life.

old was politely but firmly re-
fused. Our books must be the
most up-to-date possible. The club members must
not be patronized, but if possible must be envied.
A considerable number of retired teachers were
situated where they had access to good libraries
and so declined our offer. These persons were
asked in what way they thought the club could be

useful, and many wanted suggestions for simple
handicraft instruction.

Handicraft Catalogues and Museum

of Specimens

One teacher, who had taught handicraft before
he became deaf, made a collection of catalogues
and price lists of materials for handwork; a few
books of simple instructions in some of the crafts;
and specimens of things made with shells, corn
husks, crochet cotton, jam jars, old postage stamps,
and paper napkins. Also a sample of finger paint-
ing. No hope is held out for adding to income—
only the chance to make attractive gifts and re-
membrances while experiencing the joy of crea-
tive activity. A section of an office bookshelf is
still large enough to house the collection. It would
appear that much of our future work will be along
this line.

Inter-visitation and Meetings

An effort was made to promote inter-visitation;
names and addresses were given to the ten deaf
teachers on the active list of all the others, simi-
larly the eight sufferers from severe arthritis.
This was done in time for exchange of Christmas
cards; perhaps one-third of these suggestions
were followed. Sick people
have great trouble bringing
themselves to do anything
out of the ordinary and are
especially apt to delay an-
swering letters and to feel
unhappy and guilty about it.
About ten women were
asked to pay some friendly
calls, and the first name on
the visiting list was invari-
ably the blind woman already
alluded to. She is a tonic

373

374

to anyone, sick or well. She
keeps her pretty house im-
maculate, does most of her
own work including iron-
ing, and loves to entertain
callers in a way so radi-
antly happy that none could
be sorry for her.

After about six months
of mimeographed letters

with descriptions of the activities here outlined,

A TEACHERS” EXCHANGE CLUB

"One of our bedfast members who has made
her adjustment despite handicaps which
would make you and me quit. writes: 'I
sew. crochet. write bits of poetry. enter-
tain friends. and read western and ad-
venture stories (for vicarious activity).
In short. I just live. and enjoy spring
stretching into summer. and summer shrink-
ing into winter—and try to get the
best from this old and lovely world."l

requests began to come in for a meeting. In order

to have the first meeting as informal as possible,
an invitation was secured from a blind teacher
living on a beautiful hillside in Valley Forge, and
an outdoor supper was planned. Sixteen disabled
teachers and five others were present. Two were
blind, five hard of hearing, two were heart cases.
One healed tuberculosis case was recovering
strength to return, and the rest were nervous
patients. The weather was perfect, and the sim-
ple refreshments seemed to please the guests. No
formal program was given, only quiet conversation.
A remarkable note of affection and understanding
was prevalent before the day was over.

Our second meeting was held on November 4,
1939, using the drawing room of the Women’s
University Club. There was an eagerness for this
reunion on the part .of all but one of the teachers
who attended the first meeting. The one excep-
tion was a teacher who wrote that she had “never
gotten over the sight of all those poor sufferers”
and could not possibly attend another gathering.
This invalid will eventually join with us as soon I
as she rediscovers the service motive.
meeting we chose a setting as beautiful and
sophisticated as possible. The club furnishings are "1 _‘
suitably sumptuous, and all the guests sat in easy'x-l

chairs while motion pic-
tures were shown of a trip
to the West Coast. There
was also'a reel giving an
interesting description of
the technique of soap
sculpture. The blind mem-
bers enjoyed the. running
account of the pictures
given by their neighbors.
Afterwards tea was served
with party sandwiches and
candy from a candle-lit
table. The expenses of
this party were largely

When they appreciate her and even depend
upon her for contributions she can still ma

   

I
For this 

"As a medical worker in the field of teacher
health. .I am interested not only in increas-
ing the quantity or the span of life but in
improving life's quality. so that whether it
be longer or shorter it may have been happier
and more worth while. The tangled emotions

of the disabled teacher who has been officially
pronounced unfit to continue her life work

can be at least partly untangled in helping -

her to understand herself. By discovering for
herself the positive gifts with which she can
go on. she may actually assist her fellows.

e. it
brings joy the able-bodied can scarcelyfathom.'I

covered by a donation of
money from two disabled
teachers who would have
liked to entertain us at their
homes but lacked the
strength. The number at-
tending was twenty-two.
Written greetings came
from thirty-two others. The
next meeting was held at

the Christmas season and was around a fireplace.

A True Exchange

Dues for carrying on this activity could be‘
small, but any assessment might drive away the
teachers who most need the services of the club.
The idea of barter must be worked into our corre-
spondence so that it will be understood that one of
our poets can contribute a few lines that can serve I
as one full year’s dues if used for our joint greet-
ing card, while another may contribute lessons in
art or some craft. The bedfast may fill scrap-
books with clippings of sermons or jokes, or cross-
word puzzles to be used by other members.

Since the very nature of our clientele precludes
chances of being self-sustaining, it will be neces-
sary to obtain sponsorship from either the school
authorities with paid secretarial assistance or an
existing group of organized active teachers, or we
may join forces with another neglected group, the
teachers who are “superannuated.”
have often terminated their services with reluct-
ance, though less abruptly, to be sure. Many per-

, sons retired on age would be able and willing to
unite with their disabled fellow teachers. The two:
groups would have common problems of adjusting, .
to a change in ways of living, and in many cases ‘
would be personally acquainted with each other. I

They, too, -

The president of the State :
Retired Teachers’ Associa- 
tion has attended our meet-’f
ings and thinks the con- |
nection would be suitable. I
The common purpose of»

the enlarged organization;

would be “re-education for:

leisure.”

“Capacity for the full3
enjoyment of life has to
be developed. It involves
attitudes, appreciations, in-
terests and skills.”

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap’n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

OMB Nature-Grams from State Parks. Gar—
rett G. Eppley, Associate Recreational Plan-

ner, Region Two, National Park Service, sends
some interesting information regarding progress
in the park naturalist program.

Individuals assigned to supervise state park nat-
uralist programs in Region Two include G. E.
Moore, Missouri; M. L. Jones, Iowa; the Rever—
end George 0. Link, Illinois; Howard H. Mich-
aud, Indiana; and Charles F. Welch, Michigan.
Iowa and Michigan are providing supervisors for

a the first time. Missouri begins this year to em-

ploy its supervisors on a year-round basis.
Part of the salary of A. T. Cross, State Park
Naturalist at Palisades-Kepler State Park, Mount

7 Vernon, Iowa, is paid by the Cedar Rapids Play—

ground Commission of which Nevin Nichols is
Superintendent of Recreation.

Richard F. Trump, high school instructor of
Keokuk, Iowa, and park naturalist during the
summer months at Lacey-Keosauqua State Park,
Iowa (forty-live miles from Keokuk) has had a
nature column entitled “Nature Notebook” ap-
pearing in the Keosauqua County Recorder each
week during the past year.

The salary and expenses of M. L. Jones, Chief
Naturalist for Iowa, are paid by the Community
Service Division of the State W PA, directed by
Elston Wagner.

The services of Howard H. Michaud and
Charles F. VVelch of Indiana and Michigan re-
spectively are furnished by the Education Divi-
sion of the State Conservation Department.

According to George Kribs, Area Supervisor
for WPA, nature tours have been conducted
every Sunday afternoon during the past year at
Ludington State Park, Michigan. During the cold
months coffee, furnished by local merchants, was

served at stations along the tour.

According to E. A. Mayes of the Missouri
State Park Board, this Board is working toward
the goal of having a naturalist and museum in
every state park of Missouri.

Publications entitled “Nature Notes,” prepared
by the various park naturalists of Iowa, are
mimeographed by the Extension Department of
Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa.

Binoculars for the park naturalists of Missouri
are provided by the Wildlife Division of Missouri

University under the direction of Dr. Rudolf
Bennitt.

Recreational M ap of the United S tates—-—24” by
36”——showing natural areas in color can be secured

free on application to the National Park Service,
Washington, D. C.

Garbage Fed Bears and Feeding Platforms in
national parks are gradually being eliminated. The
bears are said to be unsanitary! Incidentally, it

may take some time to teach park visitors once
more to enjoy bears in their natural surroundings.

“Actions S peak Louder Than Words!” Camp
d1rectors are beginning to realize that the way

nature leaders act is just as important as what
they say.

Rietzrlei Sanctuary is the most recent and
largest South African nature sanctuary.

The Natural History Society in Worcester,
ll-fassachnsetts, is planning a Conservation Con-
gress for Worcester County for October 18th and

19th.

Canadian Nature is a bimonthly magazine de-
voted to nature and its conservation. It advocates
wholesome living and right thin-king. Exceedingly
well illustrated, it suggests nature lore projects
equally well suited for the home or playground.
The Chief Inspector of Public and Separate
Schools for the Province of Ontario has recom-
mended it for the use of teachers and pupils.
$1.00 a year (32 pages). Editorial oflice, I77
Jarvis 'Street, Toronto.

Flower Calendar for 1940 in color. Secure

from Garden Beautiful, Ltd., 1821 Marine Build-
ing, Vancouver, B. C. $.50.

What Is Your State Tree? “Hemlock, the
State Tree of Pennsylvania.” Bulletin 52 of the
Department of Forests and 'Waters, Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, extols the virtues of the hemlock
in Pennsylvania’s woods.

Publications on Indians and Their Lore:
“Navajo Native Dyes,” their preparation and
use. Publication of the Education Division,

.(Continued on page 390)
375

\n.
URING THE Recrea-
D tion Congress to be
held in Cleveland,
Ohio, next October many
delegates will visit the
settlement houses, Y.M.
C. A., Y. W. C. A., and
other private organiza-

tions, as well as the cen-
ters maintained by the

Youth Serves Youth

When you attend the Cleveland Recreation Con-
gress this month. you will see many young people
assisting in the recreational activities of settle-
ments and municipal recreation centers. helping
in nursery schools. learning stagecraft at little
theaters. and doing janitorial and clerical work.
They are workers from the NYA who are serving
their city in various capacities. Sydney B. Markey.
head of the Friendly lnn Settlement. tells of
the work these young people are doing and
says: "Under careful supervision they learn work
habits and skills. and make possible considerable

It is recognized that the:
youth assigned to settle-
ment houses are not
trained social workers}
For many of them this is
the first job they have.
had since graduating f rom,
high school. It is very}

valuable training as ‘Al',
bert M. Brown, NYA.

Division of Recreation
and other public depart-
ments of the city. These
delegates will be interested in knowing of the help
which National Youth Administration workers
are giving these agencies. About 100 of these
young people are doing recreation work; 75 are
in homemaking departments, helping in the kit-
chens and with household work at settlement
houses; 75 others are assisting in nursery schools,
aiding in the care of children; 100 are serving as
engineer assistants, helping the janitorial care of
the buildings; 75 are doing clerical work, While
the remaining 50 are in the arts and crafts depart-
ments or serving as stagecraft assistants.

It is as stagecraft assistants that Negro youth
are acquiring technical knowledge in a growing
Held, the Negro theater, according to Mrs. Rowena
W. Jelliffe, as-
sociate director
of Playhouse
Settlement and
director of the
Gilpin Players.
“They are not
only learning
technical details
of design, build-
in g o f s e ts,
painting, and
backstage work
during the act-
ual perform-
ance, but they
are having the
experience of

trips to other
theaters.”

376

extension of our work in the settlements."

 

supervisor in charge of,

the Recreation Project,

points out. “For general;
all-around training and work habits, associating;
with people, learning the value of Working with.
children and what it means to a community, meet-:
ing a certain type of culture and education, and-
understanding the importance of leisure-time ac-
tivity and recreation —these factors are worth a:
great deal to any youth just beginning to learn
how to support himself.”

As a further means of training youth to be rec-
reation assistants, a series of courses was intro-
duced by Mr. Brown. Meeting at different settle-
ment houses, these young people have learned how:
to play more highly organized games, and they
are taught the methods and techniques of gym-1
nasium and club activities and of community.
singing, as well i
as a general un-
derstanding of .
recreation work

in agencies. _
Many oppor- "
tunities are of-fi
fered for their”
own recreation.1|
At the Play--l
house Settle- 
ment twenty-
five young peo-
ple organized
their own club
under the lead.
ership of a stafl
assistant. The)

(Continued on
page 398)

.The Recreation Congress and National Defense

i this special importance because the movement of
. which it is the annual clearing house must now

l

T l

\

Twenty-Fifth National

Recreation Congress in
Cleveland, September 30-
October 4, will be of strik-
ing importance. It may
prove to be even historic
for recreation.

The Congress will have

IT Is CERTAIN that the

: meet the unprecedented challenge of swiftly mov-
.‘ ing national and international events. Whatever
 the outcome of the present struggle in Europe. the
[i United States will face seri-

ous problems.

Recreation like every other

institution in the United
States must face the search-
ing tests imposed by the nec-

= essities of the great national

defense program. Therefore
this is a time for putting the
recreational house in order

land for looking with the

greatest thoroughness to its

, = efficiency. The American pub—

lic will be in no mood to to]-
erate superhcial or inept per-
formance of recreational

L functions.
I  It appears now that recre-

l

ation leaders are called on to

i do three things. First, to ex-

plore new ways of making
more efficient What they are
i now doing; second, to inter-

} pret the meaning for national defense of existing
‘recreation service; third, to redirect their efforts
to fit the needs of the present emergency.

The program of general addresses and the
,numerous section meetings of the Cleveland Con-
‘ gress directly lends itself to these three purposes.
‘ The addresses of Mayor LaGuardia at the open-

ing session Monday evening, of Arthur S. Flem—
ming, Commissioner, U. S. Civil Service Commis-
Sion, on Tuesday evening, and of Dr. Henry Noble
MacCracken, President of Vassar College, on

The Twenty-Fifth National Recreation Con-
gress is meeting at a time when the coun-

try is putting forth every effort toward
adequate national defense. Delegates to
the Congress will seek to interpret the
meaning for national defense of existing
recreation servicesI and will consider in
what ways their efforts may be redirected
to meet the needs of the present emergency.

 

WINTHROP ROCKEFELLER

Mr. Rockefeller will speak at the
Recreation Congress at Cleveland.

a"
Wednesday, will stir our
thinking on the role of rec—
reation in the building of
public morale. The exchange
of thinking and experience
in the section meetings and
several special meetings on
new themes will show how
administrative and program

services may be strengthened and in What direc-
tion recreational planning should proceed so as
best to meet suddenly created new needs.

Among the section meetings just referred to
will be the following: evaluation of a city’s rec-

reation service, practical
methods for improving rec-
reation personnel, two meet-
ings for lay members of
local boards addressed to rec—
reation during the present
emergency, fundamental fi-
nancial problems affecting
recreation, training recreation
leaders, correlation of the

' work of public and private

agencies, methods of inter—
preting recreation, and vol-
unteers in public recreation.

The large advance regis-
tration. and the letters re-
ceived from prospective dele-
gates indicate how seriously
recreation leaders are weigh-
ing the relation of their work
to the defense program now
overshadowing everything
taking place in the United

States. No thoughtful person considers that any
less recreation is needed. The real concern is over
the peculiar relationship recreation bears to the
common effort for defense. The American people
need but to be reminded of the World War to
recollect that recreation was then proved neces—
sary to the preparation of both fighting men and
unified loyal communities. It was not enough to
teach soldiers and sailors how to handle weapons
properly, to equip them and feed them adequately.
They needed and got something more—leisure

377

378 THE RECREATION CONGRESS AND NATIONAL DEFENSE

experiences when off duty
that contributed to their
moral discipline and to a
conviction that the ideals
which as fighters they were
expected to champion were
worth fighting, and if nec-
essary, worth dying for.
Every recreation worker
is aware that American de-
fense will not be made
more easy by a low morale
among a generation severely
punished by the depression.
Congress has voted billions
of dollars for ships, guns
and planes. Yet it takes
more than these to build a
stout defense. The real de—
fense of the country rests
in the deep conviction of the
young people who may have
to fight and the citizens
that our democratic institu-
tions are supremely worth
while. As the American
Youth Commission has
pointed out: “Democracy
will not be aided and the
civilization of this country
will not ‘be advanced by the
conscription of life that is
underprivileged and unhope-
ful. This country can only
be defended successfully by
peOple who expect just
treatment from it.”

The morale of American
youth will not be stimulated
by diverting recreational
funds, already all too mea—
ger, to other uses. A rea—
sonable amount of recrea-
tion is a fundamental need
of every individual and is
an essential in our demo—
cratic way of life.

The positive disciplinary
values of recreation often
overlooked will be reviewed
at the Congress. The phy-
sical and emotional disci-
plining in games, sports and

 

Jacob CraneI who is Assistant Adminis-
trator of the U. 5. Housing Authority'
will speak on the subiectl "Recreation
and Housing in Community Planning."

 

Arthur S. Fleming. Commissioner. U. 5.

Civil Service CommissionI will be pres-
ent at the Recreation Congress and
will discuss "Leadership for Leisure."

 

nature recreation, the uni-
fying influences of music, ’
social recreation and clubs, l
and the contribution that
community recreation makes. 1
to community feeling and
civic consciousness will be
interpreted. 
Thus the urgent impor-.
tance of not only holding,
but extending the notable
gains of recreation during
the last generation will be
on the minds of all at the
Congress. For the voluntary
American system of recrea-,
tion which stands opposed
to totalitarian ideas and
methods is one of the most
precious possessions of our
democracy. It represents the;
things which dictatorships

.tend to crush, human broth-

erhood, the principle of
equality among men, the
dignity of the individual.
human being, freedom from
religious and racial bigotry
and a striving for cultural
values and the well—rounded
development of human per-
sonality.

These are some of the:
issues which give a special
meaning to the Cleveland”
Congress. The leaders and:
friends of recreation will‘
meet to pool their thinking
at a critical time when
thoughtless and hasty pub-r
lic action may overlook thepl
necessity of utilizing to the
full the great service which’
the recreation movement is.
prepared to contribute to’
the maintenance of Ameri-
can morale.

Among the many men and:
women both familiar and“
new who will preside and,
take part in the Cleveland
program are the following:‘

(Continued on page 397)

Leadership in Recreation

By DWIGHT D. W. DAVIS, Ph.D.

NB OF THE firSt Chal' Eastern Oregon School of Education Play Theories

lenges that ought to be

thrown in the direction The Surplus-Energy Theory.

' ' In essence it maintains that

of the person interested in ' o
. . f -
becoming a leader In the field Those who would be leaders a ter prov1ding for the neces

of recreation is this: develop in the field of recreation must glues 0f hie we Still have SO

. , h _
for yourself some working develop a sound philosophy muc pent up energy stored

_ . away within us that we sim-
philosophy, an attitude, to- tow d h F I . . o

. . ar t e area 0 ensure- I 1 t k - -
ward the area of leisure-time l: me p y Canno eeP 5U“: there

pursuits. pursuits, and take the initia- fore W6 expend it in superflu-

. . . . . . ous and useless exercise —
I do not feel that too much tlve In Indiwdual preparation. blow 63 Steam 2
emphasis can be placed upon -

the imperative necessity for The Preparation for Life
i doing this. Why? Because at a given time and a Philosophy of Play. This concept assumes that all
" given place, the prevailing conception held toward forms of play engaged in by children and youth
i’ play determines in large measure the position and are but a definite preparation for the pursuit of
j function of recreational activities within that the more serious things of life.3

society.

Recapitulation Theory. Every child, according
to G. Stanley Hall, an exponent of this philoso-
phy, re-lives the history of the race; each activity
engaged in during one’s life corresponds to the
activities engaged in by the race during the vari-
ous stages of evolution. For this reason it is
called, often, the inheritance theory of play. 4

Play was given an important role in the national
life of the Greeks and the Romans. The mind and
the body were considered to be inextricably inter-

> related; each exerted its influence upon the other.
' The goal for these people seemed to have been a
I sound mind in a sound body.

‘ During the Middle Ages, and persisting down
to the very recent past, the body of man was re-
, garded as something evil. To abash the flesh Was
to attain s'pirituality since the spirit was thereby

left untrammeled. It is needless to say that such

, a conception of the human body relegated play after a rolling-ball. All-811111316 active games . . .
activities into the background involve imitation, hunting, fighting, rivalry, ac-
i _ “ quisitiveness, and construction, combined in vari—

Dr' Stemer has Stated that the hard Struggle ous ways; their special rules are habits, discovered

to conquer the wilderness and provide the neces- by accident, selected by intelligence, and propa_

i . . . .
. Sities of life was too severe to give much atten- gated by tradition; but unless they were founded

l'tion to play . . - under SUCh conditions It was in automatic impulses, games would lose most of
I natural to develop a philosophy of llfe that would their zest” 5

exalt labor and look askance at unproductive .
i activities)” Relaxation Theory. Because of the stress and

strain of modern life upon the human body, man
needs to play for relaxation, renewal and refresh-
ment. “We have learned that it is not excitement
that we seek in play, but release from those

Instinctive Theory. What is meant by this is best
expressed by William James. “A boy can no more
help running after another boy who runs provok-
ingly near him, than a kitten can help running

The close of the nineteenth century and the
.beginning of the twentieth witnessed, for the first
time in nearly a thousand long years, the institu-
tion of recreation exerting itself for an increas-
,ingly more important role in contemporary life.

 

1 Steiner, Jesse F., Americans at Play, p. 11.

' ' ° ' , 2For an extended discussion of this theory, see summaries of
Because its status was insecure, various theories Bowen and Mitchell, ghlgoryhof Organized Play; also Herbert
I i i . LII'C- Spencer’s Princi [es 0 syc o ogy.
Of  were developed In Jusnlicatlon 0:] 161:1 3 For a more compete dis‘fiission, see Carl Groos, Play of Am'.
i i I C t 601" mats; also his Play 0 cm. .
lime pursults. BIOS? promlnent among t 4 See Hall, G. Stanley, Adolescence, Vol. 2, pp. 202, 223.
165 were the followmg: 5 James, William, Psychology, Vol. 2, p. 427.

i 379

380 LEADERSHIP IN RECREATION

forms of mental activity which are fatigued in
our daily life of grind.” 6 I

The Recreation Theory. This philosophy needs
very little comment for to us it is perhaps the best
known of all. The term “recreation,” itself means
“re-creation.” Through play activities something
happens to the body and mind so that we feel re-
freshed for further work, responsibility, and com-
panionableness, as the case might be.

The foregoing theories of play might prove
helpful to the recreation leader who is seeking to
construct an attitude of his own toward the field
of leisure-time eXpenditures. A word of caution
might, however, be given. Taken alone, each of
the theories advanced is incomplete; each has its
weaknesses. Play is too complex a phenomenon
to be explained by any one formula. Perhaps an
amalgamation and synthesis of all the theories of
' recreation would be a closer approximation to the
truth.

The Challenge to Leadership

Now that man has achieved hours for leisure
that half a century ago were undreamed of, the
universal question is what to do with it. The
problem confronting leaders in the field of recre-
ation is the enigma of wise and effective human
utilization rather than one of foolish and reckless
dissipation. The high-tide energies of youth and
adult alike must be directed toward an embrace-
ment of intelligent living. The whole area of lei-
sure must be revealed to them as a golden oppor-
tunity for communal, and hence world inspiration
and elevation.

But if this would be achieved, the prospective
leader of recreation must be willing to accept an-
other challenge; it is the challenge to become
cognizant of the truism that initiative in individual
preparation is a cardinal element of leadership.

Too often this point is overlooked by those who
possess potential leadership capacity. Somehow
these people must be con-
vinced that inherited po-
tentialities in themselves
are not enough; they must
be developed to the maxi-
mum. But maximum de-
velopment of skills is
neither a gift of the gods
nor an incidental by-prod-

ePatrick, G. T., “The Play of a
Nation," The Scientific Monthly,
Vol. 13, (1921), p. 353. See
also his book, The Psychology
of Relaxation.

 

"No longer need play activities be justified.
Indeed, recreation has become so thoroughly
entrenched in the folkways of modern society.
and so insistent has been this institution. that
man has demanded and received more time
for recreational pursuits. The development
of this movement has been concomitant with
the urbanization and
age. Complete appreciation of this point by
the recreation leader will enable him to dis-
cern more understandingly the present prob-
lems arising out of this field of activity."

ind ustrialism of this

uct; it is a goal realized only through the con-
tinuous application of one’s self to the Opportuni-
ties at hand.

Leadership in the field of recreation is costly.
Its exacting price is that of continuous prepara-
tion. This preparation must be extensive as well
as intensive, for prophetic leadership demands not
only specialization but also diversification. If the
latter is sketchy it becomes well nigh impossible
for the leader to see all important relationships.
Variety of experience is essential. Without it,
progressive leadership becomes difficult.

Many need to develop a broader concept of
experience than they now entertain. It includes
not only the knowledge derived from one’s own
action, practice, perception, enjoyment, or suf-
fering, but it also embraces the knowledge de-
rived by others from similar~sources. For this
reason we need to be impressed with the fact that
the racial experiences of civilization are more
significant than those of any one person. If we
would move forward in the field of recreation,
those within the area must become acquainted
with past leadership program experiences as well
as familiarizing themselves with universal con-
temporary play activities.

Qualify yourselves for a more creative leader-
ship! This is the challenge that comes to those
who would serve in the field of recreation. Only
as we take the initiative in individual preparation
and develop for ourselves a constructive philoso-
phy about play can that challenge be answered.

“As in the vocational field we are finding that
training may be too specialized, with the result
that workers cannot adapt themselves to rapidly
changing processes, so in the field of leisure-time
activity we are learning that attitudes, interests,
and capabilities are of even greater importance
than technical skill in directing activities. No
worker should be accepted for the least responsi-
ble position where dealing
with people is the prime
concern without careful
consideration of his broad
cultural background and
potentialities for growth
and deveIOpment in the
major qualifications.” -—
F rom“Standards of Train-
ing, Experience, and Com-
pensation in Community
Recreation Work.”

.,the City of

» studios, a jewelry and metal-
I craft shOp, sewing and home-

. ' and library have

N OLD house
A i n t h e
heart of

west side Cleve-
land, once the
home of Lieu—
tenant Gover-
nor, has become
the first recre—
ation center de-
voted to arts

and crafts in

Cleveland. Its
living room,
dining room

' b e e n t r a n s -

formed into lecture and ex-
hibition rooms, while the upper
rooms have been made into art

crafts rooms, and dark rooms

lfor photography classes. A

station library specializing in books dealing with

, arts and crafts, gardening and nature has been

established by the Cleveland Public Library for
he convenience of class members.

Plans for the remodeling of the two—story barn
n the rear of the dwelling are now nearing com-
)letion. Woodcraft, ceramics and metalcraft
:lasses which are being housed temporarily in
he dwelling Will move to the Craft Shop, as the
arm is to be called, as soon as accommodations
tire completed.

t The property was acquired by the city through
he purchase of a life estate. It is allarge piece of
and well suited to the plans on foot for establish-
1g the grounds as a trial gardening center for
:arden clubs on the West Side. The Garden
Tenter of Cleveland has agreed to aid financially
nd in other ways in establishing it as the West
lide Garden Center of Cleveland. -

The first center of this type in the city, it is
apidly gaining in popularity. Since its opening in
ilctober, a weekly average of two hundred per-
ons have attended the classes which are held from
:00-5 :00 P. M. and 7:00-10:00 P. M. daily except

 

By MARGARET E. MULAC
Supervisor
Women's and Girls' Activities
Division of Recreation

ClevelandI Ohio

Saturdays and
Sundays. Sat—
urday mornings
are devoted to
children’s clas—
5 e s, w h e n i n-
s t r u c t i o n in
drawing, paint-
ing, woodcraft,
photography,
model airplane
building and
c e r a mic s a re

offered.

At the begin—
ning of the year
a course in na-
ture study was
worked out with the Natural
History Museum and plans
made for regular lectures on
winter birds, astronomy, rocks
and minerals and spring wild
flowers. The nature course is
to be coordinated with the
other interests of the child. If the child likes to
draw, he will carry ideas gleaned from the lec-
tures back to his other classes and work them out
there. The plans included, too, the establishment
of a nature room where cases prepared by the
museum are displayed.

Up to this point the reader may have the mis-
taken idea that the going has been very smooth!
Those who have worked with similar develop-
ments know that every new project presents its
problems, but when the project must proceed with
very limited funds the difhculties sometimes seem
insurmountable. At the beginning, when plans
were being‘made for the opening, many times the
despair—thought came: “How will we ever find
enough people to fill these rooms?” And just as
many times and equally despairingly: “There will
never be enough space here to fill the needs.” In
these days, with the trend toward hobbies taking
a decided up-turn, we felt that there would be
some interest, but with the project without prece-
dent we did not know whether we would be
swamped with registrations or simply ignored.

Registrations the first week ran well over 500,

381

382 ART FOR EVERYMAN

but after the classes started about 250 persons
started coming regularly. Week after week new
members were added to the rolls, some to come
regularly, others occasionally.

The Eternal Problem—Money!

The problem of tools and supplies was an acute
one. We had a few woodcraft tools, linoleum
tools and enough tools to start a jewelry and
metalcraft class. The house, though well built,
was old-fashioned and the lighting in many of the
rooms inadequate. To adapt the living quarters
into class rooms has been quite a problem, espe—
cially with limited funds. Many little things
needed could not be secured through the regular
channels of city purchasing. Funds had to be
raised somehow to buy necessary items for the
building and tools for classes. To ask for dona-
tions for a project so new was unthinkable. Some-
how the money must come from the people who
were benefiting from the centere—and the needs
were far greater than their ability to pay.

Because of city regulations there could be no
charge for instruction, but voluntary contributions
could be accepted, so this plan was devised: Every
person who registered was acquainted with the
facts and asked to become a member of the
Crafts and Arts Club of the Center. Memberships
were to be $2.00 annually for adults, payable in
two installments, and 25¢ for children. Through
this method over $140 was raised in the first four
months. This
was used to buy
small tools,
meet immediate
needs and lay
in supplies used
in the classes.
While every
class member
must supply his
own arts and
crafts supplies
it is a conveni-
ence and a sav-—
ing in time and
money to be
able to pur-
chase the nec—
essary supplies
in the build-
ing. Lumber,
art supplies, sil-

 

ver and sets for jewelry, and clay are all avail-
able at slightly above wholesale prices.

A house council consisting of representatives of
the various classes was organized in December.
This group, after electing a chairman, secretary
and treasurer, drew up a constitution governing
its activities and agreed to act in advisory capacity
to the director of the center and the headquarters
supervisor. Problems of the center are discussed,
and expenditures sanctioned. Members make ef— 
forts to get donations either in money, supplies, 3
or tools needed for the center. Details of the I-J
meeting are taken back to class members and the
needs made known to them. As a result, dona-
tions of tools, magazines for the library and sup-'.
plies of all kinds are coming in. 

The house council, in an effort to raise funds.
needed to supply the photography classes with
expensive equipment, is planning a benefit. When-i
ever possible, skilled instructors make the equip-
ment for the center. Through this medium print
boxes for photography, easels and racks for the
art classes, book shelves for the library, display}
cases for the Museum of Natural History ex-i
hibits, bulletin boards, benches and tables and;
office desks are being made in and for the center,‘

the cost being only for materials, since the lead-"
ership is supplied by WPA.

. Furnishing the Building

Plans for replacing the furniture (which in the}
beginning was”,
d o n a t e d b
storage come
p a n i e s a n d
renovated by
t h e c e n t e r --
workers) and

, the rugs (given;
by a local hotel):-
are now being,
contemplatedil
A furniture dew
signer with the .
Ohio Art Proj; 
ect has designed I
suitable f urnitf
ture in keeping «
with the nature .
of the building ‘
and that proji

(Continued on .
’11an 393)

Introduction to Community Recreation

_ CHOOL AUTHORITIES are aware of the increas-
S ingly close relationships between the fields of

education and recreation. In a number of
respects, community recreation problems have a
direct bearing upon school programs and admin-
istration. Introduction to Community Recreation,
recently compiled for the National Recreation
Association by George D. Butler and published by
McGraw—Hill Book Company, contains much
material of interest and value to school people.
This book is a comprehensive volume interpreting
community recreation, its significance, functions,
objectives, program content, methods of operation,
and relationships.

The subject matter of the book, as shown in

‘ ;he table of contents, is as follows:
l

[Part I. Recreation—“Its Nature, Extent, and
Significance

I. What is Recreation?
Dennitions—Essential Characteristics—Theo-
retical Explanations—The Recreation Move-
ment.

II. The Importance of Recreation
Recreation, a Fundamental Human Need—
Recent Changes Affecting Recreation—Recre-
ation’s Contribution to Other Community
Forces

III. Agencies
Individual and Home Recreation—Govern-
mental Agencies: Federal, State, County, and
Municipal —- Semipu’blic Agencies — Private
Agencies — Commercial Agencies —- The Need
for COOperative Planning

IV. ReCreation—A Municipal Function
The Expansion of Municipal Services—Rec-
reation Is Recognized as a Function of Gov-
ernment—Reasons for Municipal Recreation—
l Local Government Cannot Do the Entire Job

I V. The History of Municipal Recreation in the
United States '

| Signincant Events in the Recreation Move-

ment —- Early De—
‘: velopments—The
Playground Associa-
tion of America Is
Organized —- Subse—

quent Developments—
l Recreation in the reation tield that it has seemed worth
' Depression

E’art 11. Leadership

VI. Recreation Leadership
\Vhy Play Leader-

The new and comprehensive volume. In—
troduction to Community Recreation,
has been welcomed as such an important
contribution to the literature in the rec-

while. .in an issue of Recreation devoted

to schools and recreation, to
detailed outline of the contents. The book

may be secured through the National
Recreation Association for $3.50 per copy.

ship?——Leadership Objectives and Methods-—
Recreation Leadership for Youth and Adults
—-Other Aspects of Recreation Leadership

VII. Leaders in the Recreation Department
General Qualincations for All Leaders—Types
of Leadership Positions—Duties. and Special
Qualifications—Conditions vs. Standards

VIII.,Training Recreation Leaders
Preliminary Training—Training for Executive
Leadership—Training for Activity Leadership
—-In-service Training _
IX. Selecting and Maintaining the Leadership Staff
Essential Factors in Selecting Workers—

Sources of Workers—Selecting Workers—

Examinations —- Appointments —- Maintaining
Standards of Emciency ‘

X. Volunteer Service in the Recreation Department
Types of Volunteer Service—Procedures in
Developing Volunteer Service—Citizen Groups

Part III. Areas and Facilities

XI. City Planning for Recreation
Recreation a Factor in City Planning—Types
of Recreation Ar‘eas——H0w Much Space for
Recreation ?—City Parks and Playgrounds vs.
School Areas—Methods of Acquiring Land
for Recreation

XII. The Design and Equipment of Recreation Areas
. Types of Outdoor Recreation Facilities —-
Principles in Planning Recreation Areas—.
Essential Factors in Developing Recreation
Areas—Equipment and Game Facilities—The
Design and Equipment of Speciiic Types of

Areas '

XIII. Planning Special Areas and Structures

Special Recreation Areas: the Bathing Beach,
the Golf Course, the Camp, the Athletic Field
or Stadium, the Swimming Pool, Boating Fa-
cilities, Picnic Centers, Others—Facilities for
Indoor Recreation—Planning the Recreation
Building —— General Recreation Buildings —-
Special Recreation Buildings—Indoor Rec-
reation Centers

Part IV. Activities and Program Planning

XIV. Recreation Activities
Satisfactions the Fun-
damental Test—Sat-
isfactions a Basis of
Classifying Activi-
ties—Nineteen Rec-
reation Principles—
A Classified List of
Recreation Activities

XV. Program Planning
Principles and Methods
Criteria for a Com-

383

present a

munity Recreation Program — Important
Factors in Program Planning—A Few Plan—

ning Suggestions

XVI. Organizing and Conducting Recreation

Activities

Starting a Program in a City—Conducting
Activities on the Playground—Conducting

Indoor Center Activities —

Organizing

Sports Programs — Hiking — Special Com-

r'nunity Events

Part V. The Operation of Areas and Facilities

XVII. The Operation of Playgrounds
The Function of the

Playground — City-

wide Playground Organization—The Play-
ground Staff — Program Planning — Play-
ground Programsd—«Other Aspects of Play-

ground Operation

XVIII. The Operation of Recreation Buildings and

Indoor Centers

City—wide Administration — The _ General
Recreation Building: Staff, Finance, Uses,
and Program—The Community House—

The School Center

XIX. The Operation of Recreation Facilities

The Bathing Beach and Swimming Pool—

Golf Courses — Winter Sports Facilities —
The Stadium—The Municipal Camp

Part VI. Program Features and Services

XX. Arts and Crafts

On the Playground—In the Indoor Recrea-
tion Center—Special Arts and Crafts Cen-

ters—Other Features
XXI. Athletics and Sports

A Municipal Sports Program—City-wide
Sports Organization—Water- and Winter

Sports—Women’s and Girls’ Athletics—

Athletics on the Playground
XXII. Drama

On the Playgrounds—In the Indoor Centers
City-wide Services and Organizations

XXIII. Music

Types of Music Service—Music for Chil—

dren—Music for Young People

and Adults

—Opportunities for Listening to Music—A
Clearinghouse for Music Projects ~

XXIV. Nature Gardening, and Outing Activities
Nature Activities for Children—Nature Ac-
tivities for Community Groups—Gardening
—Outing Activities: Hiking Clubs, Horse-
back Riding, Bicycling, Day Outing, Camp-

ing, Fishing, Picnics
XXV. Other Program Features

Social Recreation — Dancing — Hobbies —

Study Groups and Forums—Holiday Cele—

-brations—Community Festivals
XXVI. Service to Special Groups

Home and Family Recreation—Industries—

Churches—Institutions—Nationality Groups
— Recreation for Negroes — Other Services :

Preschool Children, Tourists,
Transients — Emergency Service

Servicemen,

INTRODUCTION TO COMMUNITY RECREATION

XXVII. Typical Municipal Recreation Programs
A Summary of Recreation Facilities, Pro—
grams, and Services in Oakland, California
—Hartford, Connecticut—Sioux City, Iowa
—Hastings on Hudson, New York—Two
Rivers, Wisconsin

Part VII. Organization and Administration
Problems

XXVIII. The Legal Aspects of Municipal Recreation
How Recreation Legislation Developed—
State Recreation Enabling Acts—Local Rec—
reation Legislation—Legal Liability of Mu-
nicipalities — Recreation a Governmental
Function

XXIX. Municipal Organization for Recreation _
Suggested Organization Methods — How.
Municipal Recreation is Conducted—Organi-r
zation Trends—A Comparison of Services,
Rendered by Different Authorities—Cm,
operation—General Organization Principles

XXX. Organization of the Recreation Department
The Recreation Board or Commission—The.
Recreation Executive—Other Managing Au-
thorities—Departmental Organization—De—
partmental Organization in Several Cities

XXXI. Financing Recreation
Sources of Funds for Land and Improve-g-
ments—Sources of Funds for Current Oper-
ation—Fees and Charges—Recreation Exm
penditures—Recreation Budgets and Finan-z
cial Reports

XXXII. Records, Reports, and Research
Types of Records—Record Forms—Measur-
ing Recreation Service—The Annual De-'
partment Report—Research in the Recrea-_
tion Department—The Recreation Survey

XXXIII. Publicity for Recreation
Importance—Purposes—Content—Mediums ;, I
Newspapers, Radio, Meetings, Exhibits and:
Demonstrations, Motion Pictures, Publicae
tions, the Recreation Trial—Methods in

Special Campaigns

XXXIV. Cooperation and Relationships ‘
Cooperation with Public Departments;-t
School, Park, Library, Housing, and Others

—Cooperation with Private Agencies—An}
Example of Community Cooperation

The following topics discussed in Introduction '
to Community Recreation suggest the inter—rela;:
tionships of recreation and education. 5 I

Administration of community recreation by school
departments. Introduction to Community Recrccn
tion contains detailed accounts of community mo” 1
reation programs provided by the school authorie I
ties in Milwaukee and Sioux City. '

(Continued on page 391)

Adventuring With Food

y OSSIBLY this is-a form of di-
’ Pversion we have almost over-

looked, but remember always
that eating is one of the oldest forms of recrea-
tion and “simple food eaten with friends is often
longer remembered than the most expensive
banquet.”

Under the guidance of a teacher of Home Eco—

. nomics, the students of Malden High School are

l finding opportunities for exciting adventures with

food. .The girls, through a club, are given a

' chance to discover what our community has to

offer in the way of leisure time opportunities.

They are surprised to find out how much there is

l to enjoy, and they show real interest and partici-
 pation in the life around them.

This club, called “Food Adventurers,” was or—
- ganized over a year ago, and the members have
j found food adventuring a fascinating hobby be-
cause its newness creates an element of adventure
l. and romance, and it offers unlimited opportunities
. to enrich the use of leisure time. It is a practical
hobby, too, because it is suited to the interests and
‘ abilities of girls.
j
I

How did this club originate? Merely from an
idea! An enjoyable experience in being inter-
viewed on an educational radio program from a
Boston studio gave me food for thought. I de-
cided immediately to organize a club of our high
school girls. Imagine my surprise when one hun—
dred girls signed up the first day! Membership,
which was not limited, included girls from the
‘general, commercial, and college courses, for every

.. girl should realize that cookery is a fine art.
l The Food Adventurers are my pride and joy!
"Through this group we are finding happiness
ltright where we are, and we are discovering that
’hobbies in which all the group can take part are
jan excellent device for having fun together.

The aims of the club are to
develop a finer appreciation of
the home, to create a desire for
good food, to enrich leisure time,
'to arouse vocational interests, and
‘,.:o stimulate an interest in Home
Economics. Our colors are green
and white—green, for growth,
and white meaning joy. ficial

By RACHEL GORDON
Malden, Massachusetts

"The deepest joy in life is to be
creative. To find an undevelop-
ed situation. to see the possibili-
tiesI to identify yourself with
something worth doing. put
yourself into itI and stand for
it—that is a satisfaction in
comparison with which super-
pleasures

Food is my vocation and also
my avocation. As a hobby for
high school girls, food adventur-
ing seems to me ideal, for it means forming new
friendships in school, adventuring in good eating,
corresponding with girls in foreign lands, collect-
ing menus from all over the world, enjoying fas—
cinating educational tours and listening to foreign
travelers and artists in the food world.

Various departments in the school have been
very helpful. The boys in the Print ShOp have.
made our membership cards and tickets; several
girls from the Art Department have designed
postors, and other students are writing radio
scripts. Outstanding talent has been found in this
club. One member received national honors in
music, and another girl is featured several times
a week over one of the radio stations. The daily
newspaper and the editor of the school paper have

been very generous and given the club splendid
publicity.

Special Events

Each month two or three events are planned: a
tour through a candy factory, a delightful travel
lecture and dinner at a place internationally known
for its food and hospitality; a talk by a stewardess
from one of the Airlines; a tour through the kit-
chen of a large hotel, with supper at a little for—
eign restaurant; or a talk by the superintendent of
dining cars, a tour through a publishing house;
the experience of seeing a daily newspaper go to
press, afternoon tea and a tour through a well-
known museum. These are a few examples of our
club activities, but they give a glimpse of the
variety of our interests.

One Saturday morning, four of the girls repre-
sented the club on a radio food quiz as guests of
a well-known culinary authority. Each contestant
emerged victorious with a per-
fect score! A few weeks ago the
club enjoyed a demonstration of
making scrapbooks with Chinese
binding, which is the oldest form
of bookbinding known today.

Last October I had the oppor-
tunity to attend several sessions

are trivial." (Contimtrd on page 390)

385

WORLD AT PLAY

ON Sunday afternoon,
June 9th, Cincinnati’s
third annual Negro
Music Festival was
presented under the direction of Clarence Cameron
White of the staff of the National Recreation As-
sociation and with the sponsorship of the Mu-
nicipal Music Advisory Council and the Public
Recreation Commission. There were three hun-
dred members in the chorus, which sang a num-
ber of classical selections and a group of spirituals
arranged by Dr. White. One of the members of
the chorus who attended every rehearsal was
ninety-nine years of age.

Cincinnati’s Annual
Negro Festival

THIS year marks the
twentieth season of
municipal camping
promoted by the city
of Oakland, California. The project, which be-
gan with-one camp, now embraces five summer
vacation camps operated on a cost basis. Four of
these camps—two family camps, one for boys,
and another for girls adjacent to the family camps
-—are within national forests. Outdoor and moun-
tain sports, evening campfires, and dramatics have
a place on the program of the family camps. Ac-
tivities at the supervised children’s camps include
games, horseback riding, swimming, hshing, and
handcraft. There is another camp for girls twelve
miles from the city on municipal golf course pro—
perty, which provides camping experience for
those girls unable to go to a mountain camp. The
cities of Berkeley, Los Angeles, Sacramento,
Stockton, and San Francisco also maintain camps
within national forests.

Municipal Camps
for Oakland

A GROUP of twenty
singers selected from
the IOO-voice commu-
nity choir of the Wind-
sor COmmunity Center, Greensboro, North Caro-
lina, took part in the seventh annual National
Folk Festival held in Washington, April 25—27,
1940. There were many favorable comments on
the group’s dramatization of a camp meeting
scene in which traditional old-time spirituals were
sung in their natural old-time way. Mrs. Franklin
D. Roosevelt sent-a note of congratulations to

386

Greensboro Has Part
in Folk Festival

Harry K. Parker, Director of Negro Recreation
of the Windsor Community Center.

THE Department of
Public Recreation of
Bethlehem, Pennsyl-
vania, is helping to
promote hshing as a hobby by publishing a list of
the streams stocked for 1940 by the State Fish
Commission and by promoting bait and fly casting
tournaments. '

A City Promotes
Fishing

THE twenty-third an-
niversary of Children’s
Book Week will be
observed- this year
November 10th to 16th. The theme for the week,
“Good books—good friends,” offers opportunity
for a variety of interpretations. During this week
programs, projects, exhibits, and other types of
community observance will be developed by libra-
rians, teachers, club leaders, and all leaders of
boys and girls. A manual of suggestions with

Children’s Book
Week—1940

 

pictures, publicity releases, and other promotion '

aids is being prepared. In addition to suggestions
for planning Book Week programs, the manual
will contain information regarding the history and
signihcance of the week. Further information
may be secured from Miss Marion L. Woodburn,
Assistant Director, Book Week Headquarters, 62
West 45th Street, New York City.

 

THE Lansing, Michi-
gan, Recreation De-
partment, with the en-

An Interchurch
Drama Festival

dorsement of the I
Lansing Ministerial Association, in April con- '
ducted an interchurch drama festival for the pur- «

pose of encouraging religious drama in as many I.

churches as possible and of promoting a spirit of
goodfellowship among churches of all denomina—
tions and creeds. Four churches entered the
festival. ‘

A PUBLIC-SPIRITED‘

A New Peter Pan

Playground Cltlzen of Hamllton,

Ontario, Canada, has
presented the city with

a plot of land 300’ by 160’ for use as a younger

WORLD AT PLAY 387

children's playground. The unknown donor will
pay the expense of having the plot graded and
equipped with apparatus, and will maintain it
without expense to the city. At the request of
the donor it will be known as the “Peter Pan
Playground.”

A Model Boat Regatta in Essex County—In
May, the Montclair, New Jersey, Model Yacht
Club was host at the dedicatory Class A regatta
held at the new Verona Yacht Basin constructed
by the Essex County, New Jersey, Recreation
Commission. There were contestants present from
as far south as Washington and as far north as
Boston, ranging from mechanics to wealthy re-
tired business men. The boats sailed were valued

' at between $500 and $600 apiece, although to a
man who can build his own boat the cost does not
run very. much over $100. These 50-inch boats
must be built and sailed under as exacting mathe-

, matical regulations as are the large international
cup sloops.

First National Paddle Tennis Tournament—
The first national paddle tennis tournament under
the auspices of the United States Paddle Tennis
Association is being conducted by the Manhattan
Beach Athletic Club at Manhattan Beach, Brook—
lyn, New York. The tournament began August
26th and will continue until September 14th. Clas-
sitications will include tournaments for boys and
girls who have not reached their twelfth birthdays
(August 26th to 3Ist); junior tournaments for
boys and girls who have not reached their six-

,teenth birthdays (September 2nd to 7th) ;' and
open tournaments for men and women, amateur
or professional (September 8th to 14th). The
. entry fee is ten cents for boys, girls, and juniors;

(twenty-five cents for the Open tournaments.
l

. Teachers at Play—1940 marks the fourteenth
l'birthday of the Los Angeles Faculty Sports
{League composed of teachers from all of the city’s
t‘schools. There is competition in eight sports:
golf, volleyball, handball, pistol shooting, badmin—
ton, tennis, bowling, baseball. A trOphy for vol-
leyball and another for baseball are presented by
the school which acts as host for the Annual
Faculty Sports League Banquet, the climax of the
|year’s activities.

Milby Park Club House—On July 17%1 the
{Milby Park Club House was dedicated in Hous—
.'ton, Texas. This beautiful new park was given to
the city by Mr. and Mrs. George Hamman.

 

 

FRANK PEER BEAL—tather ot Paddle Tennis
announces three new games tor the
Recreation Center tor I940

I, M|N|_GOLF—A new idea that teaches the rudi-

ments of golf and affords lots of
pleasure to both youngsters and
oldsters.

2. SHUFL_OFF—A variation of Shuffleboard that

can be played in the gym, the play-
ground or the street.

3. PADM'NTON—Badminton with a Paddle—Low

upkeep cost and all the sport and
fun of badminton.

These games are priced to meet your budget
—write for descriptlve circulars

BEAL'S GAMES. INC.
277 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY, N. Y.

Louise Price Bell's

Party Books

make the task of enter-
taining actually tun

J usi‘ Out

SUCCESSFUL
PARTIES

Illustrated. $1.50

 

“Louise Price Bell has gone to no end in party varieties.
Included in her well-planned book are menus as well as
recipes. Table decorations as well as invitation suggestions.
Special Days parties such as Valentine's Day, Hallowe'en,
Washington‘s and St. Patrick's. Suitable games for all
occasions. How to make doodads for decorations, and what
to use. For any housewife who plays hostess to her guests,
to the Y.W.C.A. director, to the entertainment committee of

any church. Community Center or school, and to any eager
to entertain guests successfully, this is the exact book

you've been looking for."—Pittsburgh Courier.

HAVING A PARTY

By LOUISE PRICE BELL

Fun, Frolic and Feasting for all sorts of occasions
Illustrated. $1.50

FLEMING H. REVELL COMPANY

158 FIFTH AVENUE. NEW YORK

388 YOU ASKED FOR IT!

Here’s the
New

« , z'wiro‘“ ‘ c. ' 

J_ -

 

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
made! Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance

drop forged from special analysis. heat-
frea’red steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
men’r shoe. Write for comple’re infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHDE CU.

4b|0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTHI MINN.

 

World’s Fair at Bethlehem—The final play—
ground pageant of last year’s summer playground
program in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, was the
World’s Fair presented by all the playgrounds
during the ninth week of the season. Special
features of the pageant were dances and games
of different countries, and dramatizations by three
playgrounds.” Exhibits included the Court of
Sports, flowers, hobbies, handicrafts, and the
Community Activity Courts.

 
 

BASEBALL
BATS

Exhibition Space 23

 

 
 

You Asked for It!

UES TI ON : We are having a great deal of
Q difficulty in our centers in getting the more
timid boys to dance with the girls. Can you sug-
gest any solution for our problem?

Answer: Many communities are facing this
problem. In some communities the surroundings
and conditions are all favorable. There is a line
WPA orchestra playing the best tunes. There is a
lighted gymnasium with plenty of room, and there
is also a chattering mob of adolescent boys and
girls standing on the side lines. In this picture
four things seem to stand out most clearly. First,
we see one girl dancing with" another. They dance
together because both girls know how to dance.
There are no inhibitions as those which come into
play when they dance with boys. The girls know
each other well; the subconsciotls fear of the op-
posite sex is not functioning. Finally, both the
girls are good at dancing.

Again in the picture we see many boys standing
on the side lines. They would like to dance but
they don’t for a number of reasonsi (I) They do,
not know how to dance. (2) They don’t know
how to ask a girl to dance. (3) There arises in,
their minds the fear that the girls whom they ask.
cannot dance. (4) They dread the razzing from
their pals. (5) They hate the idea of being:
“stuck.” (6) Some are very self-conscious about;
the correctness of their clothing.

Another reason for the difficulty is the fact that}
there are many girls on the side lines waiting to.
be asked to dance. They aren’t invited, and if'
they were many of them would not dance. Some ,
are “choosy” about the boys with whom they
dance, and some actually fear the possibility of
getting a roughneck boy.

  
   
 
 

Come and see us

and the “Old Timer” Display of Louisville Sluggers Used 50 Years Ago by Pop Anson, 
Willie Keeler and others. I

 

OBJECTIVES OF A PROGRAM OF EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES 389

Finally, even the brave boys who do make the
effort are made fun of when they attempt to dance.

These, in brief, are some of the things which
cause headaches for the community center di-
rector. But here they are, hundreds of them, suf—
fering from social inertia. \Vhy are they here?

Five reasons might be mentioned: (I) They
desire to socialize, to see others and be a part of
the group. (2) They enjoy listening and keeping
time to the beat of the music. (3) The dance
serves as a meeting place for friends and acquain-
tances. (4) They would like to experience the thrill
of dancing with the opposite sex. (5) Finally,
they respond to the opportunity to express them-
selves through rhythm.

W’hat can be done?

Before the dance a few of the boys and girls
who are recognized as leaders might be persuaded
to lead off. Someone has suggested that clever name
cards be given to each person as he or she enters
the building. A number of directors have sug-
gested to the girls that it is their responsibility to
make the advances in a subtle way. If dancing
classes are organized, a number of leaders feel,
the boys and girls should be taught social dancing
etiquette. Another suggestion is that in order to
eliminate side lines a certain section be set aside
for those who want only to watch and that they be
confined to this area. Finally, dance mixers might
be introduced every third dance. — Dat'id M.
Brastt'ell, 111, Reading, Pennsylvania.

Obiectives of a Program of Extra-

Curricular Activities in High School
‘ (Continued from page 362)

hat one must suppress one’s own individual opin-
on if it works harm to others. They must learn
<10t only how to govern others but also how to
govern themselves. In services to their commu—

,lity. the school, they learn that in a democracy .

lociety may not exploit the individual nor may
he individual disregard the interests of society.
n service work the emphasis should be on
houghtfulness and consideration for others.

The successful operation of such a program as
.ere described requires careful organization and
dministration. It is not suflicient to have the
ight type of teacher for each activity, but it is
150 necessary to conduct a campaign to enlighten
upils in order to attract them to the activities so
hat they may derive the benefits of an activity
:rogram. This naturally raises a series of ques-
Ions, some of which were propounded in the be-
.inning. If we think these activities important

SONS "
CINCINNATI. 0.

THE P. GOLDSMITH

JOHN AND FINDLAY STS..

 

enough to consider them worthy of a place in at-
taining the goal of education in a democracy, and
if We hold as our objectives those previously men-
tioned, then every pupil ought to be appealed to
to enter some activity.

Organization in One School

In the James Monroe High School, New York
City, with an enrollment of about 10,000 pUpils,
the extra-curricular program has been organized
in the following manner:

At the beginning of each semester pupils are

PLAY SAFE

WITH

SAFEBAT
PREVENT ACCIDENTS WITH THIS
RUBBER COVERED
SOFTBALL BAT

Safe . . Durable .
Write for Information

SAFEBAT COMPANY, Castile, New York

       
        

. N oiseless .

   

. Popular

    
   

390

WINTARK

Molded . . . Fabric Lined . . . *Cordura
Wound . . . Composition Covered—

Basket Balls
* ‘k *.
Volley Balls
* ‘k *
Footballs
* ‘k *
Soccer Balls

your * * *
ball problem i Water Polo

*

The

economical

answer to

See our display at the

National Recreation Congress

* Registered trade—mark of the du Pont Co.

 

familiarized with the extra-curricular activity pro-
gram through an assembly in which the oppor—
tunities are explained, posters in the school cor-
ridors, the school newspaper, and occasionally
through a questionnaire asking them what activi-
ties they’d like. During the fifth week of the term
the school’s activity opportunities are again em-
phasized, and during the tenth week of the term
all pupils submit to the central activity office a
complete list of all their current extra-curricular
activities. A selected group of students evaluates

the activities according to a point system. No pupil'

may carrry more than a certain number of points
per term and no pupil may participate in more
than two sports or two clubs per term except in
rare cases.

At the end of the term each faculty adviser
of an extra-curricular activity submits to the cen—
tral office ratings for all pupils in his or her activity.
In rating, teachers are urged to consider the prog-
ress made by the pupil in the activity and the
regularity of attendance. These ratings are re-
corded on an activity card as a fraction, the num-
erator indicating what the pupil actually earned
and the denominator indicating the maximum
possible for that activity. The completed activity
cards are given to the home room teacher or sec-

ADVENTURING WITH FOOD

tion officer, who transcribes the entire card to the

pupil’s permanent record sheet. Thus his activity
record takes its place next to his scholastic record,
and guidance has a new avenue of approach and
becomes more meaningful.

Adventuring With Food _

(Continued from page 385)

of the National Recreation Congress at the Hotel
Statler in Boston, and to my delight I learned that
I could obtain membership for my club. The
Food Adventurers are very happy to be members
of such an organization, and we look forward to
the monthly copy of RECREATION.

Our latest activity includes a Food Adventurers
Club for boys. Plans for the new organization
were discussed at a supper party. The highlight
of the evening came when the four male chefs
were ushered into the kitchenette and given reci-
pes. They displayed their culinary art by pr‘epar-
ing supper, while a group of girls from the Food
Adventurers Club were on- hand to enjoy the
masculine menu. Although there were four cooks
the broth wasn’t spoiled; in fact the supper tasted
grand to all of us. Inviting a group to your home
does not mean that you have to plan for weeks
ahead, as half the fun. of a supper party of this
kind is its impromptu character.

A few weeks ago a group of boys enjoyed a:
very delicious luncheon at a well—known restaur

rant and a secretary from the Boston Y.M.C.A.
was their guest speaker.

Food adventuring has educational and recrea-
tional values, and it is my ambition to make this
club a feature that will be of interest to the teen
age and maybe even the adults.

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation I

(Continued from page 375)

United States Office of Indian Affairs, Wash-

ington, D. C. Now that it is increasingly diffi-
cult to go abroad, here is an opportunity to gain
an idea of native art expressions of “pagan”
( ?) origin.

“Quill and Beadwork of the Western Sioux.“
Excellent illustrations. May be secured from
address given above. $. 50.

“Pottery of the Southwestern Indians,” “The;

Indians of Manhattan Island and Vicinity,” and
“Indian Beadwork” compose the three valuable'
guide leaflet series issued by the American Mu-
seum of Natural History, New York City.
“How to Talk in the Indian Sign Language”

J

IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

is a booklet published by the B. F. Goodrich
Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio.

Vanishing Species of American Wild Life.
This book with colored plates is nearing comple-
tion‘and will be published by the National Park

Service.

Camp Greentop, Catoctin Recreation Demon-
stration Area. This area in Maryland, which is
sponsored by the Maryland League for Crippled
Children, has a highly developed nature program.
One feature is a 3 :30 A. M. sunrise walk and bird
hunt. The camp is co-recreational. Miss Mary E.
Church is secretary of the League; Mr. Ernest
Marx, director of the camp.

Know Stars. Tank commanders in the United
,States Army, just like pilots at sea, have to know
the stars for steering purposes.

Fish and Wild Life Service is the new name for
the combined Bureau of Fisheries and Bureau of
Biological Survey. Formerly the black bears were
under one bureau, the white bears under another,
.and brown bears under a third. The new plan will
‘be less confusing to recreationally-minded folks
'since bears are still the center of attraction to park
visitors. The greatest problem is with visitors
who insist on feeding the bears rather than with
the bears who have been taught to beg for food.
If there are “hold-up” bears it is the fault of the
public!

Camping in the State of Georgia. The United
States Park Service announces this report, the
=irst in an eastern state. It is a part of the national
study of camping being made in connection with
:he Park, Parkway and Recreational-Area Study.

Pymatiming Park on the Ohio-Pennsylvania
Estate line covers a greater area than any other
)ody of water within the state of Pennsylvania. A
ive-page report issued by the Department of F or-
t-sts and waters tells about its recreational possi-
|iilities and regulations.

Friends of the Land is the name of a new con-
pervation association. Russell Lord has been
named editor of the association’s magazine, which
'vill appear under the title, “The Land.”

“The National Recreation institute held in New-
irk in 1936,” writes L. C. Wilsey, Supervisor of
-{ecreation, Essex County Park Commission.
nvas the inspiration for our nature program.
grhich has boasted a full-time ranger during July
nd August since 1937, and a program of nature
gxploration on the playgrounds which is growing
1 extent each year. The ranger’s services are

      
  

,‘ NEW
“J CATALOG ANNOUNCED

The most complete and comprehensive catalog on
leather and all allied accessories for handicraft
work is just off the press.

Write today for your FREE copy of this 84 page
manual of Leathercratt showing leathers, tools,
accessories, Fleetwood Moccasin Kits, plans, pat-
terns. and instructions. Also new elk-tan WHITE
MOCCASINS—very popular!

ASK FOR CATALOG lZ-R

OSBORN BROS. SUPPLY CO.
223 W. Jackson Blvd. Chicago, Ill.

 

 

available the year round to groups of twenty or.
more desiring to hike over the reservation trails.

Last year twenty—four such trips were conducted
serving 912 persons.”

Introduction to Community Recreation
(Continued from page 384)

Cooperation of the school with the city. Local
recreation commissions often contain representa-
tives from the school board and in this way the
schools share responsibility for recreation plan-

INTRODUCTION TO

COMMUNITY
RECREATION

Edited for the

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
by GEORGE D. BUTLER

537 pages, 6 x 9, $3.50

THE PURPOSE of this important new book is
to fill the need for a comprehensive volume
interpreting community recreation, its signifi-
cance, functions, Objectives, program content,
methods of operation, and relationships. Spe-
cial consideration is given to those forms Of
recreation which require a large degree of
organization and leadership, and in which
participation plays an important part.

There is a description of recreation programs
in several representative cities giving a well-
rounded picture Of the service of local govern-
ment in the recreation field.

Send for a copy an approval

McGRAW-HILI. BOOK COMPANY. Inc.
330 West 42nd Street. New York. N. Y.

 

392

INTRODUCTION TO COMMUNITY RECREATION

THE AMERICAN CITIZEN,
MAGAZINE

brings each month stories of what indi-
viduals and community organizations
and agencies are doing

To build good character

To lay the foundations for good

citizenship
To solve community problems
To safeguard and enhance democratic

4"

institutions.

Dr. Francis L. Bacon, Principal of the
Evanston, Illinois, Township High

School, says:

"Permit me to express my apprecia-
tion of the increasing value of this
unique periodical. I could ardently
wish that every school library possess
one or more subscriptions. It would
seem, too, that civics and guidance
teachers might well utilize the maga-
zine as reference material for students.

"'The overview which your magazine
gives to the work of the various social
agencies and the emphasis on the de-
sirable coordination of school and com—
munity social agencies constitute a
superior service. More power to your
efforts!"

Mr. Clarence W. Sumner, Chief Li-
brarian, The Youngstown, Ohio, Public
Library, writes: "The American Citizen
is serving a vital need of the times and
should be in every public, college and
school library in the country.”

Mr. E. R. Selleck, Superintendent of
Schools, Des Plaines, 111., says: "I
greatly appreciate the way in which
The American Citizen is serving our
educational needs in advancing a better
understanding and appreciation of true
Americanism. The movement to recog-
nize the importance of becoming twen-
ty-one years of age and the growing
sentiment which puts the community in
the position of sharing in the celebra—
tion of these twenty—first birthdays,
makes it imperative .that we have a
magazine that clears the experience of
these communities.”

Send your name and address to

THE'AMERICAN CITIZEN

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

and a sample copy and subscription
blank will be sent you.

 

ning and activity programs. The book discusses
the school administration of the community recre—
ation system; organization charts indicate the re-
lation of school officials to the recreation depart-
ment.

Use of schools for community centers versus
special recreation buildings. There is, in this vol—
ume, a list of the activities carried on in various
school rooms in Newark, New Jersey, and a dis-
cussion of the whole question of school centers
and their operation.

Service rendered to the schools by the recreation
department. Throughout the book there are state-
ments and descriptions of‘ the ways in which
school groups are furnished recreation services by
recreation authorities. Recreation activities in lei-
sure time and extracurricular programs. The
chapters on activities and special program features
are particularly helpful in understanding the
values and methods of organizing variOUS forms
of recreation activity.

City planning for recreation and school planning.
Consideration is given to the place of school plant
planning in city planning.

Training courses for paid and volunteer leaders.
School authorities should be familiar with the
content of college courses necessary to train work-
ers for the recreation field and also the methods
used in training volunteer leaders.

Outside agencies competing with the school for
the children's time. The school people should be
aware of the diversified agencies that are furl
nishing recreation to school children—their activi-
ties, standards, etc. In Introduction to C ommzmity
Recreation there is a review of these varied com-
munity agencies.

This book has been adopted as a text and has;
been Used in training and recreation courses ir.’
various colleges, among them are the University
of Georgia, Chautauqua Institute, Illinois State;
Normal University, University of Minnesota
Ohio State University, Pennsylvania State Col-C
lege, Purdue University, Springfield (Massachue‘i
setts) College, Syracuse University, Teachers’ Colj ,
lege, Columbia University, and University 03
Illinois.

As text, manual, or source book, I ntroductim
to Community Recreation is informative, useful
and almost indispensible to school authorities it
their close‘relationships with the allied field 0
recreation.

ART FOR EVERYMAN 393

Ari: for Everyman

(Continued from page 382)
ect will make the furniture. Another project will
weave rugs for their entire building. The rugs
will cost only the price of the warp as the other
materials are salvaged from the sewing project
which makes clothing for relief clients.

Art exhibits are furnished regularly by the
Ohio Art Project for two of the exhibition rooms;
the other is already filled with the work of the
members.

The project is less than six months old. While
satisfactory progress has been made, there is still
much to be done. As the classes progress and

j become _more advanced, their needs increase pro—
laportionately, and there is a constant cry for en-
. larged quarters, new equipment, more tools.
“Luckily, interest increases in proportion to the

I .
,needs, and a few dollars come in for dues for

“new members and old members make gifts. The
:lbuilding, homelike in atmosphere, charming in its
puniqueness, arouses in the members an affection
:gwhich overlooks inconveniences and problems that
ircannot be immediately remedied.

The longer the classes meet the closer they
'ligrow. Strangers to each other before, common
.interest and frequent associations have welded the
members into friendly groups. It is upon these
groups that the future and growth of the center

rests. Through concentrated efforts the funds
'tan be raised to meet the needs of the center to
[make it one of the best equipped and most unusual

.arts and crafts centers anywhere.

'  Antioch's Truck-Treks

(Continued from page 371)

I Istudent succeeds in this experience he has taken a
I big step forward in his social education. “Learn-
I 3ng by doing" is daily routine on the Antioch
I gtOUI‘S, and the presence of both girls and boys on
' .‘these trips broadens considerably the value of the
Lesson in social living.

In the modern world we are apt to forget the
,‘solid pleasures and enduring benefits which result
’.from a life close to Nature, even from the small
hardships we encounter daily while “roughing it.”
Spending a summer in this fashion has a marked
jeffect upon one’s ability to adjust to new situa—
i-ions, and this adaptability is an extremely useful
huality for life.

I

‘ The Matter of Finances

A word is in order now about how the Antioch

BE SAFE WITH UNIVERSAL
FIRST QUALITY BLEACHERS

You may be able to save a
few dollars of initial cost
by accepting second quality
bleachers, but in the long
run they will cost more
than first quality, for main-
tenance and depreciation
will be high. Universal
Bleachers are top quality,
properly designed and care-
fully made from select ma-
terials, assuring a longer
useful life at lower cost.

 

Write today for informa-
tive bulletins and price
estimate to meet your need.

 

 

STEEL FOLDING BLEACHERS UNIVERSAL BLEACHER 80_

FOR PERMANENT USE
mnoons. CHAMPAIGII, ILLINOIS

trips are run, and particularly about how they are
financed. The Thorne-Loomis Foundation of
New York lent Antioch College tWo trucks for
industrial tours in 1931, but shortly after, because
of’ the depression, discontinued its tour projects.
The trucks were then given to the College to
carry on industrial tours in whatever manner it
could work out. These original trucks were given
hard use and have long since worn out, but their
successors, purchased jointly by the College and
Thorne-Loomis, have carried on with greater in-
terest and more ambitious trips each year. The
Antioch Tours are now on a self-supporting basis
and a proper rental is charged to take care of de-
preciation and provide for replacements.

The leader—usually one of the faculty but in
some cases an older student—is selected in the
fall of the year, and he outlines the itinerary,
promotes the trip, and assembles a party before
summer. The leader’s expenses are paid, but to
date no salary has been provided for his services.
A budget is made up in advance and the members
of the party are assessed a per capita share of the
estimated total expense. In addition, each one
deposits with the College bursar ten per cent more

394 THE RECREATIONAL LIFE OF TEACHERS

  

The Influencing
of Character.

"authoritative, practical”

      

for all

RECREATIONAL LEADERS

BY

HUBER WILLIAM HURT. Ph.D.
51/2” x 81/2”—223 pages—$1.65

"THE MECHANICS OF
HUMAN RELATIONS"
32 pages, 4” x6”—45c

"LIFE PLANNING
ANALYSIS CHART"

for analyzing personal
data in Guidance Work

Also

"VOCATIONAL
COMPARISON CHART"

for weighing vocations
Each —- 25c

"U. S. HISTORY IN
GRAPHIC OUTLINE"

a 28” x 42” chart in
two colors ——- 50c

  
   
      
   
    
 

  

 
    
    
 

  

 
   
    
   

  

 
    
    
     
   
     
 

0
THE 1939 COLLEGE BLUE BOOK

756 pages analyzes nearly
4,000 institutions — $4.75

  
     
    
 

  
  

Address

THE COLLEGE BLUE BOOK

404 RIVERSIDE DRIVE

    
    

     

to serve as a reserve fund, used only in emergen-
cies. The leader takes charge of funds and also
directs the trip. However, the individual students
are assigned special tasks and responsibilities so
that there is a definite division of labor with each
one doing those things he is best suited to do.
The average cost of the summer trip is $1 35 per
person. This covers, usually, a ten week’s tour.
Two years ago, one of the Antioch trucks went,
to Europe and toured England, France, Italy and
Germany. The truck was put on shipboard with
the party, and ferried across for $250 round trip.‘
This and passenger fare ran up the cost of the
tour, but only to the extent of about $150 per.
person in excess of the usual costs. ‘
The summer’s trip in 1940 will be to Mexico
and the plans are for a mixed group, 'with two
trucks. Though this trip will be to a foreign
country no boat fare is involved and costs proba-
bly will not exceed the usual rate. "
Antioch is proud of these summer adventures
and is convinced that they have unique educa~
tional value. In order to spread the benefits she
will be glad to provide information about the
trucks and the tours to other colleges or institu-
tions interested in establishing a like plan of their
own. It is within reach of all, and should take on.

The Recreational Life OF Teachers
(Continued from page 354)

Reading even appeared srgmhcantly on the list of
recreational desires.

In general, the activities in which the majority,«
of this group participated frequently represented;
diminution of effort, rather than altered direction
of effort, as compared to the usual day’s work in:
teaching; and they were outstandingly of a soli’
tary rather than social nature.

The recreational desires expressed by the group
were activities largely of an expensive type, re-:
quiring considerable leisure, and facilities and?
organization quite beyond the ability of the indi-
vidual to provide for himself. There was definite
evidence of a serious gap between the desires of:
the group and their capacity to fulfill these de*
sires; thus the dissatisfaction which was general.
throughout the group.

In terms of the desires of the group, then, it?
must be concluded that the recreational activities:
reported were inadequate and unsatisfying. How‘-

  

ever, it must be recognized that psychological!
wants are never really satisfied, particularly with. '
a relatively highly educated group such as this, 

]

 
 

NEW YORK CITY

A “HANG OUT” ROOM FOR SIOUX CITY YOUTH 395

and so to base judgment of adequacy and satis-

faction solely upon such wants would be futile.

From the point of view of criteria of desirable
recreation, the activities of this group appear in a
much more favorable light. They do meet, in

' general, these criteria: that 'is, the outstanding
1 activities do have their incentive and fulfillment
in the individual himself rather than in external

coercions; they are activities of a type relatively
l permanently interesting, they do offer contrast to

the daily work of teaching, and, in general, they

are at least compatible with physical and mental

l well-being. At certain points questions may be
raised. It is possible, for instance, that somewhat

more of the outdoor and active type of recreation
‘would enhance physical well-being; it is also pos-
sible that somewhat more of the social and less of
the solitary type of activity would augment mental
",well-being. These, however, are problems which
' lldepend largely upon the individual and upon that
individual’s adjustment to life as a whole. Rec-
i 'reation is such an individual matter that it is im-
possible to say that some activities are desirable
[because they are active or social, and that others
hare undesirable because, they are passive or soli-
r' tary, when, for certain individuals, a passive or
solitary activity may provide those lasting satis-
factions which no amount of active or social

recreation could possibly supply.

I The recreation of teachers is affected directly
.by some of these same conditions which constitute
,a hazard to their mental health, i.e., overwork, the
ifatiguing character of the work, poor pay, in-
;security, etc. This very iield of life, which should
the functioning to counteract these hazards, is
{being curtailed instead, through their influences.
IAmelioration of these conditions would unques-
lltionably affect favorably both the adequacy and
“satisfaction of teachers’ recreation, as well as
litheir physical, mental, social, and economic status.
This, most certainly, is the end really to be de-
;. sired and the goal earnestly to be worked for by
 lall those interested in teacher welfare.
 In the meantime, however, it does not seem
.Lanreasonable to believe that real recreational
' Tvalues may be found even in types of activities
“which are relatively inexpensive and which do not
lifequire large amounts of leisure. It is true that
.iL'he development of such interests does require
'iimagination and initiative, but this should not
[Drove a serious obstacle for a group such as
' constitutes the teaching profession.

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

As Originally
Developed by. . .

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University or Kansas

wrence. Kansas

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating

exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

\ WRITE FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Under Exclusive LicenseIAgreoment)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
3524 DeKalb Street a s s s a

so St. Louis. Mo.
Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

 

 

A "Hang Out" Room for Sioux City
' Youth

( C ontiimed from page 372)

only one of a number of different activities eni-
phasizes the significance of its popularity. There
are arts and crafts classes once a week, a hobby
shop, gym classes for men and women, archery,
dancing in the gym; twice a week there is a dra-
matic club; three times weekly the game room is
open for any sort of card game or novelty game.
The table tennis room, too, is available three
nights weekly. Twice a month an all-center party
is held when the other rooms close. So, on the
nights the hang out room is open, you will find
Woodrow \Nilson school full of activities of many
sorts. But in spite of other attractions, the hang
out room has thus far been extremely popular,
and it is usually full of young folks who come
and go from the other rooms or stay the entire
evening.

The Junior League is supplying volunteer help,
and on each night the hang out room is open,

.396

   

Subscription
Price

$2.00

A “HANG OUT” ROOM FOR SIOUX CITY YOUTH

a! ‘ §c hooll Activate»

HARRY C. McKOWN. Editor
C. R. VAN NICE. Managing Editor

  
 
  
  

A Journal of Ideas and Projects for the School as a;

CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP LABORATORY

in. which

Student Council, Clubs, Home Rooms, Athletics,
Music, Debate, Publications, Trips, Dramatics,
Assembly, Financing Activities, and Social
Functions make democratic settings and life
situations typical of the American way of living

and working together.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING co.

1515 LANE STREET — -

TOPEKA, KANSAS

 

 

three Junior League members are there to act as
hostesses. They make no attempt to direct activi-
ties but merely make friends and join in the
games and conversation when they are approached.
Sometimes the young men and women are a little
reticent with them at first, but after the hostesses
have shown a genuine desire to be friendly the
response is entirely satisfactory. Presently they
1in that the “hang outers” are talking to them
eagerly about all their many and varied ideas,
ambitions and problems.

So far we have not had the slightest difficulty
,getting our members to go to the center. Those
who do go seem to feel that the contacts are every
bit as interesting to them as they could possibly
be beneficial to the “hang outers.” Entering the
room is a great deal like walking into someone’s
living room. The chances are that Bobby and
Frank and Dave will be playing bridge with one
of the hostesses while Vince and Joe, the heart
throb, do a bit of kibitzing. Mike will be in a
corner reading, Al and Bobby, the clowns of the
gang, may be grouped about the radio with Mary
and Helen listening to their favorite program, and
there will be many small groups, oblivious to

everything, just talking. If you try to iind out.
about what, you’ll find it may be anything from

personalities to religion.

A casual survey of the magazine committee
shows that the picture magazines, Life, Look,
Click, and others in this class, are much the most
popular. Popularity of radio programs is more
varied. Perhaps Major Bowes is the general
favorite. As one of our workers puts it, probably
this magic vista which pictures young people get-

ting a break for something “reallybig” has a par- 

ticular appeal for them.

Suggestions from the committee in charge:

were: larger qUarters,
chairs or davenports, many lamps, and if possible,

a branch lending library.

additional comfortable...

So far as we know, we are the only Junior -

League doing this type of work. At any rate,
what started out as an innocent little bit of con- _
structive work has turned into an unUSUally in-'
teresting project, and expansion is to be consid-
ered. Recently there have been visiting groups
from other recreation centers wanting to know
why they, too, can’t have a hang out room.

THE RECREATION CONGRESS AND NATIONAL DEFENSE 397

i The Recreation Congress and

National Deiense
(Continued from page 378)

\V. A. Stinchcomb, Director, Cleveland Metro-
nipolitan Park District; George Hjelte, Superin-
tendent, Department of Playgrounds and Recrea-
tion, Los Angeles; Clarence E. Ridley, Director,
[The International City Manager’s Association,
’ Chicago; V. K. Brown, Director of Recreation,
Chicago Park District; Dorothy C. Enderis, De—
partment of Municipal Recreation and Adult Edu-
ication, Milwaukee; G. Ott Romney, Director Rec-
l»reation Section, Federal Works Agency; Jacob
;Crane, Assistant Administrator, U. S. Housing
. Authority; Mark McCloskey, Director of Recre-
Eational and Community Activities, Board of Edu-
,cation, Brooklyn, N .Y.; Elmer D. Mitchell, Chair-
l'man, Department of Physical Education, School
nof Education, University of Michigan; Clyde
lDoyle, President, Long Beach Recreation Com-
Jmission; William E. Mosher, Dean, Maxwell
{Graduate School of Citizenship and Public AEair's,
iSyracuse University; C.E. Brewer, Commissioner
lot Recreation, Detroit; Dora E. Dodge, Director,
JWorcester Girls’ Club; E. O. Harbin, Young
People’s Division, General Board of Christian
’Education, Methodist Episcopal Church, South,
Nashville; Benson Y. Landis, Executive Secre-
g':ary, American Country Life Association; James
:A. Garrison, Superintendent, Austin Recreation
rDepartment; Lebert H. Weir of National Recre-
[lltion Association; C. W. Tillinghast, Regional
Director, Pennsylvania Economy League, Inc.,
HE‘hiladelphia; A. D. Taylor, President, American
Society of Landscape Architects; E. Dana Caul-
kins, Superintendent, Westchester County Rec-
i'eation Commission; Oscar A. Kirkham, Execu-
‘ ive Secretary, Young Men’s Mutual Improve-
lnent Association, Salt Lake City; Ellen Eddy
l‘ihaw, Curator of Elementary Instruction, Brook-
ryn Botanic Garden; Harold M. Gore, Head,
|)epartment of Physical Education for Men, Mas-
!Iachusetts State College; Philip L. Seman, Chair-
inan, Chicago Recreation Commission; George A.
llellamy, Director, The Hiram House, Cleveland;
,.eyton E. Carter, Director, The Cleveland Foun-
j‘lation; Garry C. Myers, Editor-in-Chief, “Chil-
,ren’s Activities,” Chicago; Frank Cozzoline,
‘l’resident, Board of Education, Newark; H. C.
1tamsower, Director, College of Agriculture, Ex-
pnsion Service, Ohio State University; Tam
l’eering, Director, Public Recreation Commission,

 

 

on the genuine world-famous

"JUNGLEGYM"

CLIMBING STRUCTURE

The "perfect playground device”—as authori-
ties the world over have called the "Iunglegym"
Climbing Structure—is now available at new
prices more than 50 per cent below the former
level. Mass production, made possible by the
ever-growing demand for this item, has enabled
us to make these drastic price reductions. Write
for our descriptive booklet telling why the "Jun-
glegym" Climbing Structure is the safest, most
economical, most educational, most all-around

desirable play apparatus you can buy. New
prices are quoted with the booklet.

Send for our beautiful new Recreation Equipment
Catalog. just oil the press!

11
THE In E.  CORPORATION

ILLINOIS

OTTAWA ‘lr

 

Manufacturers of the famous "London." "Chicago" and "Spalding"
lines of playground. swimming pool and gymnasium equipment

 

 

Cincinnati; Mrs. Eugene Meyer, Seven Springs
Farm, Mt. Kisco; C. L. Brownell, Professor of
Physical Education, Teachers College, Columbia
University ; Floyd A. Rowe, Directing SUpervisor,
Bureau of Physical Welfare, Board of Education,
Cleveland; C. H. English, Executive Secretary,
Playground and Recreation Association of Phila-
delphia; the Honorable Ira W. Jayne, Judge of
the Circuit Court for the Third Judicial Circuit
of Michigan, Detroit; and  Noble Richards,
Commissioner of Recreation, Department of Parks
and Public Property, Cleveland.

The School Curriculum and Life Needs

(Continued from page 345)

You who bear the proud title of educators—I
congratulate you on your privilege in days like
these—the privilege of writing a new page in the
history of inspiring the minds of youth, to develop
their own original genius, and originally think
their own way through their own problems. If

you meet the challenge, you can say at the end,
“I lived through the Great Days in Education!"

398 A NEW SCHOOL AND COll/IMUNITY CENTER

Fold-O-Leg Tables serve many needs in recre-
ation centers—seat more people in comfort—-
are easily handled and require 300% less stor-
age space. They are sturdily built for lifetime
service at low cost. Write for booklet with

complete details.

Visit the [Mitchell Exhibit Booth No. 27
at the Recreation Congress at Cleveland

Also Manufacturers of

Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment.
Folding Stands for Band and Choral Groups

MITCHELL MFG. CO.

3034 W. FOREST HOME AVE. MILWAUKEE. WIS.

 

 

What makes you think so?

How do you know you’re right?

WHAT MAKES LIVES

224 pages, silk cloth, $1.50

EXPLAINS—how the world has been brought to its
present sorry state—at least it’s an attempt.

EXAMINES—how personalities are shaped or misc
shaped by our changing environment, by persons
of the past and present, seen and unseen, by mis-
leading propaganda and teaching—resulting in
maladjustment, hate, waste, and war.

INTERPRETs—domestic and foreign affairs —— much
previously unpublished, not generally known—in
terms of human motives of the chief actors, per-
haps violating some proprieties and tabus.

Divinities that shape our rough-hewn
ends may he malevolent

Table of Contents and Circular of
comments from some of the
world’s great thinkers on request

PORTER SARGENT
11 BEACON STREET BOSTON

.—

Youth Serves Youth
(Continued from page 376)

have had a series of sightseeing trips to points of
of interest in and around Cleveland; they have
gone on overnight camping trips, started a news:
paper, and have held discussions on many
problems.

A New School and Community Center
(Continued from page 351) -‘

The art and clay modeling rooms provide the
opportunity for a much valued use of leisure time
by those who are fortunate enough to possess
artistic ability. 

As one thinks of the facilities available and of
this community, one must visualize publiciorumg
sponsored by the Social Science Department held
in the auditorium; the meetings of adult boolg
clubs in the library; music appreciation and little
theater groups in the music room; and a movié
appreciation group in the visual education room.

Add to these the use of the physics, chemistry;
and biology laboratories and you have a progran;
which the Spaulding families must have had it.
mind when they presented this magnificent plant
to the city with the understanding that “the pun
pose and desires of the donors for this building
can be realized only as it is- used to the fulles;
extent possible to meet the educational and recre'

ational needs of all the citizens of Rochester.” :

Play Schools for the Preschool Child‘

(Continued from page 357)

leaders are trained to detect any irregularity whicl
may prove a health hazard to the individual 05‘
group, since the preschool age is one which i‘.
most fertile for communicable diseases. J

A suggested activity schedule, set up in 
Organization and Programming Bulletin for P131;
Schools which is used by all play school leader
throughout the state, offers the following plaj
schedule:

8:45- 9:10 Health inspection; wrap removal; toilel
rinse hands; drink of water; go to 1313
room.

9:10- 9:20 Discussion period: a period offering 01
portunity for the enjoyment of conversatiot

9:20- 9:50 Indoor activity period: easel painting, crai

ons, woodwork, playhouse, clay, block”.
books, toys and various play activities.

 

SCHOOL - COMMUNITY RELATIONSHIPS 399

:- 9:50—10:10 Cultural period: music, rhythmics, art ex-

pressions.

:10:10-10:30 Luncheon period: toilet; wash hands; have

, luncheon.
i 10 :30-10 :45 Rest period: relaxation.

.- 10:45-11 :00 Literature period: telling, reading, and dra—
matization of stories; poetry, picture study.

;
511:00-11145- Outside activity period: playground appa-
l

ratus play; games, sand box, excursion.
‘11:45-12:00 Closing period: children leave.

, This schedule is merely suggestive. However,
the luncheon period, rest period and health in-
;spection occur at the same time every day. Each
Lday’s program includes indoor and outdoor activi-
ities, health inspection, luncheon and rest periods.
iEach day's program should also contain two or
lmore of the following activities: group discussion,
jmusic, rhythm, art, stories, or an excursion. The
‘ play school leader keeps a balance between active

[and quiet play by having a well planned daily
|program.

Over a period of a few weeks a multitude of
{ nteresting recreational activities are enjoyed.
jHikes and excursions have been most exhilarat-
ing; children’s birthdays have been appropriately
jcelebrated; visiting days for younger brothers and
}.sisters have been interesting; mothers’ and chil-
,jlren’s “get-togethers” have been “such fun”;
ly)icnics, and outdoor play and games have been
.nost enjoyable; stories, conversation experiences,
I 'lramatization and “make-believe” with costumes
[lave been most exciting; creative activities with
lpvet sand, plasticine, clay, paper, papier-maché,
itarch paint, water colors, wood, crayons, string,
huzzles, educational toys, blocks, and many other
“materials which preschool children like have been
appin engaged in; play houses, farms, houses

 

 

“or pets, gardens, have been satisfactory major
jinits. Music experiences, consisting of singing
'or the joy of singing, rhythm bands, and creative
'hythmics have satisfied the urge for music par—
Hicipation, and luncheon periods have proven a gay
.ocial experience as well as provided situations
or the development of fine social training. The
ntire program of interesting activities lends itself
award the development of a well-rounded per-
lionality.
' Under trained leadership the preschool child in
dis important formative period is assisted in de-
veloping his abilities to his individual capacity,
.nd in the process. of the development enjoys
'hildhood experiences in situations conducive to
be joy of living!

III

School - Community
Relationships

FOLLOWING A DISCUSSION of school-community
relationships in the field of recreation at the
1939 National Recreation Congress, it was sug-
gested that there would be value in making a
study of these relationships in a number of cities.
In the spring of 1940 one of the field workers of
the National Recreation Association visited eleven
Ohio cities for the purpose of gathering informa-
tion as to the community recreation services fur-
nished by school authorities and as to the extent
to which schools were cooperating with other local
agencies in making possible a community recrea-
tion program.

In six of the cities the community recreation
service is furnished by a recreation commission on
which the school board is officially represented.
In three of the cities, school authorities themselves
conduct a community recreation program, where-
as in two cities the program is carried on entirely
by municipal agencies.

The following are a few of the major findings
revealed by the study:

I I. There is a great diversity in the nature and
extent of school board relationships to pub-
lic recreation in different. cities.

2. The use of school. facilities for recreation by
community groups is increasing.

3. Most school authorities feel some responsi-
bility for the leisure hours of out-of-school
youth but very little responsibility for adult
recreation programs.

4. The extent to which local school authorities
furnish community recreation service is gen-
erally the result of an opportunistic approach
to the recreation problem in the locality.

5. To a considerable extent the schools’ attitude
toward recreation in a city reflects the atti-
tude of the superintendent of schools or in-
dividual school board members.

6. In only two of the eleven cities is a majority
of the summer playground or school center
staff chosen from the regular teaching staff.

7. In eight of the eleven cities there is a consid-
erable dependence upon VVPA for recreation

leadership.
(Continued on page 400)

400

 

In a field as crowded and demand-

 ing as the teaching profession.

how can one be sure of success?

By using JUNIOR ARTS AND AC-

Answer:TIVITIES. the most helpful magazine

for the teacher who wants to get ahead.

According to thousands of successful teachers who
use it, JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES now ranks as
the best-liked, the most useful and helpful magazine
published in the interest of teacher and pupil.

Its popularity is due to the wealth of full-page (9x12
inches) project illustrations, accurate and up-to~date
work material, creative activities. units, practical
- ideas and suggestions that fill every issue—to its
usable source material and construction work corre—
lating with regular school subjects.

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES adds new features

as teachers ask for them, presents worth-while con-
temporary events in a way that can be used in the
classroom. Such a recent feature is the Admiral Byrd-
Antarctic material that started in the January issue.

And here's an exclusive feature of JUNIOR ARTS
AND ACTIVITIES: Teachers can obtain the same

project material shown in each issue. printed on one
side of the sheet only. This service enables a
teacher to give individual work sheets to each child
—-a big time saver for the busy teacher.

You can be the iudge. Send in your subscription on
the coupon provided. If, after examining the first

issue, you are not entirely satisfied that JUNIOR
ARTS AND ACTIVITIES will definitely help you and

your pupils, you may cancel your subscription order
by notifying us within ten days.

Subscribe Now!

10 BIG ISSUES
FOR ONLY ................  

JUN I03 ARTS
AND ACTIVITIES

740 Rush Street Chicago. Illinois

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES
740 Rush Street. Chicago. Illinois

Please enter my subscription to JUNIOR ARTS AND
ACTIVITIES for one year (10 issues), to start with

. ....... .. I am enclosing $2.00
.......... ..Bill me for $2.00

Name ........................................................................ ..

 

SCHOOL - COMMUNITY RELATIONSHIPS

8. In working out plans for the joint use of
facilities and joint responsibility the recrea-
tion commission with board of education
representation has been found most satis-

factory.

9. There is a surprising lack of coordination;
. between school programs in avocational sub-J.
jects and recreation programs except in
athletics. '

IO. Remarkably little criticism was met on the
part of recreation or school authorities and}
relationships between the two groups are un-'
doubtedly much better than in the past.

II. There is a great variation in the degree of:
adequacy of school outdoor recreation space.
and indoor facilities in different cities, but-
practically all new school buildings have some.
provision for indoor recreation facilities and]
many new sites provide outdoor facilities. '

12. Less than half of the total school sites have
play areas of two acres or more. Only 28%
of all school sites are used for summer play.
activities.

I3. Except for gymnasiums and indoor pools
little use is made of indoor school facilities
for recreation.

14. Few school authorities have adopted definite
policies and procedures governing the com;
munity use of school buildings or have fixed
a definite scale of charges. In only four of
the eleven cities have definite rules for such

use been adopted and printed. '

15. Charging for the recreation use of school!
buildings is common. In only four cities isl
the recreation authority, which in two of:
these cases is directly under the school board, 7:
granted free use of facilities for its programs:
although in some other cities it is charged a:
lower rate than other agencies. I

16. No school system keeps a record of the num- 
ber of hours school building facilities are use:te
for extracurricular activities, by semi-public
agencies, or by other community groups. Thig
indicates a lack of appreciation by school aus
thorities of the importance of such uses.

17. Summer playground programs sponsored by
school and other authorities include a variety
of activities but recreation programs f0?
adults in school buildings include largely
physical activities.

l

RECREATION AND THE SCHOOLS

Recreation and the Schools

HE SCHOOLS of the U. S. have made a great
Tcontribution to recreation.

This contribution has been made under difficulty.

The school budget is often the biggest and most
outstanding single local expenditure. \Vith each
economy wave this budget is under vigorous at-
tack. It is gone over and over to find possible cuts.

Playgrounds and recreation centers and recrea-
tion programs for school children are discovered
in the school budget. Here is a place to cut. Over
and over again when the total school budget is to
be reduced here is the place the cut is made. A
list of cities could be cited.

That recreation should be stricken from the
school budget is not the desire of the school su—
perintendent. the school principal or the teacher,
yet the cut is made here.

One reason the park budget is not reduced is
that if recreation is taken out of the local park
budget, not much is left, for practically all that is
done by the park board relates to the leisure time
of the people. The school system, however, has
heavy fixed charges for scholastic training and for
preparing students to earn a living, responsibili-
ties regarded by the public at least as without re-
lation to recreation. Recreation in the school
budget seems to many not to be related to the
central objective of the schools. Likewise music,
art. drama, discussion groups are often listed with
playgrounds and recreation centers as “fads and
frills" which can be cut off without too serious

loss to the central school purpose.

How may we build up such an understanding
of recreation in relation to schools that citizens

lwill not leave school playgrounds fenced and

locked after school hours and for°the long sum-

‘mer months while children are being killed by

autos as they play in the streets; that it will be
impossible to have school gymnasiums. and school
auditoriums dark, closed, left spic and span, un-
used much of the time while energy-driven young-
sters who want only adventure and activity are
being arrested because they had no recreation
:enters?

Recreation in the locality usually has so many
sides that many agencies must help—the churches,
he private agencies as well as the park boards and
special recreation boards, but surely no commu—
lity can afford to leave its school lands, buildings,
facilities, leadership idle when our recreation needs

(Continued on page 402)

 

,LjonRQBETTER
Arnie r I   u l PM E N 'r
I l ‘ Whatever-  Sport
 .   There-hie .
 magmas goo-imam

..  vast Game

 

nnwnmcs manurac'runmc COMPANY

SAINT LOUIS

The New Book

MISSOURI

 

THE ADMINISTRATION
OF PUBLIC RECREHTION

 

 

 

provides the hrst comprehensive,
up-to-date textbook on a subject
of basic importance in the modern

training of recreational workers.

VVRITTEN by George IIjelte, Superintendent of
Recreation for the City of Los Angeles. this
book contains a complete discussion of the ad—
ministrative problems involved in local commu—
nity recreation, whether conducted under city.
county, or public school auspices. It covers all
such matters as the. organization and financing
of municipal or county recreation departments,
the acquisition of recreation properties, the co—
ordination of various agencies for recreation
work, and the many details of personnel, bud-
geting, record-keeping, program planning, etc.
Illus., $3.00 (probable).

The Macmillan Company, New York

402 A CHILDREN’S THEATER TAKES TO THE ROAD

Recreation and the Schools
(Continued from page 401)
in the local community are so very great. We
cannot be proud of locked school playgrounds.
All our great national organizations which have
branches in our localities may well face giving
backing to our school leaders in spending part of
their funds on a more adequate use of school
properties for community recreation.
—Howard Brancher

A Children's Theater Takes to the Road

(Continued from page 365)

I

There is no question but what trouping takes
theater to an audience in need of it. A letter
received by the Los Angeles Junior League illus-
trates the attitude of educators all over the

country :

“We do want you to know how very much we at
Saticoy appreciated your kindness in bringing ‘Cinder-
ella’ to us. It was an excellent performance, and you
are indeed to be complimented. We particularly appre-
ciated your bringing such an artistic creation to a com-
munity that is so devoid of cultural opportunities, be—
cause of its isolation and financial insecurity. I think
during a good deal of this depression much has been
done for the physical needs of people by philanthropic
organizations, and that is indeed essential, but I am glad
to know of one organization that is cognizant of the
hunger for beauty and art which has necessarily been
curtailed throughout all stratas of society. The old
Persian quotation that states, ‘If I had two loaves of
bread, I would sell one to buy hyacinths for my soul,’
seems to us to be particularly potent.

Yours very sincerely,
EUGENIA H. O’BRIEN,
Principal Salim;I School”

Not only can trouping select the audiences
where the greatest need exists, but it forms the
easiest pattern for schools to make use of educa—
tional activities related to the theater experience.
Schools have been quick to use the play as a focal
point for numerous types of activities in the class-
room. The choice of play is often determined by
the schools according to what is being studied in
history or English, since a dramatization can make
more vivid historical events and well known char-
acters and can introduce children in a lively way
to different periods and countries. Plays with a
musical background, such as Hansel and Gretel,
offer excellent material to music teachers. In art
classes drawings are made both before and after
seeing the performance of a well known story.
Both the drawings and letters which contain spon-
taneous reactions and criticisms are invaluable to

the theater groups in a study of audiences and an
increasing knowledge of the best techniques in
producing for children.

Volunteer service in children’s theater offers a
direct means of fulfilling the purpose of the Junior
League, which is to educate its members to better
citizenship through a knowledge of the community
and its problems. The trouping type of program
in particular offers the volunteer an opportunity to
become familiar with the educational and recrea- -
tional programs of her community and enables her
to recognize existing needs and future possibilities ’
in this phase of community life. With the tech-
niques of trouping more completely grasped it is
possible to look forward to the use of children’s
theater not only as a community service but as a
channel by which volunteers can be made aware
of the social and economic backgrounds and prob-
lems of the community through a more intimate ’
knowledge of child audiences.

A Frolic for Teachers

(Continued from page 352)

room, which was beautifully decorated with ‘
Christmas greens and a sparkling tree. At the
close of the evening refreshments were served.

- The season closed in January with a barn dance
in the gym attended by over a hundred teachers”
and their friends. The faithful and enthusiastic
committee, with the aid of members from their
home rooms, converted the gym into a bucolic.‘
scene with ears of corn, corn stalks, borrowed .
bales of hay for seats, two dozen lanterns for ,
lights, and a ten gallon crock for the punch that :
was served to thirsty dancers throughout the even— §
ing. Everyone came in costume, and what a gay {
crowd it was! .Each newcomer was greeted with l
shouts of approval from farm hands, country gals, 4
cowboys, cow girls, belles and beaux of the nine- {'-
ties. It was a program dance with the dances
(those that had been learned during the fourteen {‘
weeks) listed in hand-painted programs. "It was i:
a successful evening from the first schottische t0 ;
the last plea of “let’s put our little foot just once 3|
more.” I

The Council had planned to finance the project
for only fourteen weeks, but the group “had the
habit,” so at the barn dance they voted to con-
tinue the activities until May, each person paying 
a very small fee.

As a happy, worthwhile plan we gladly recom- i
mend a Teachers’ Y.VV.C.A. co-recreation night.

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Education in the Forty-Eight States

By Payson Smith, Frank W. Wright and Associates.
5 Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C. $.30.

IN SEPTEMBER, 1936 the President appointed the Advisory
Committee on Education to make a study of the ex-
l perience under the existing program Of Federal aid for
: vocational education, the relation of such training to gen-
l, eral education, and the extent Of the need for an ex-
“ panded program Of Federal aid. Floyd W. Reeves, served
! as chairman of the committee. Paul T. David as secre-
! tary. The report submitted by the committee makes a
‘. number of recommendations regarding the services which
should be universally available. Regarding recreation the
l report states: “Community recreation on a year-round
basis and under expert leadership is the program best
suited to meet the needs of youth.” It also recommends:
i “In larger communities consideration should be given to
the desirability of organizing in the government a de-
partment of recreation with a separate budget.”

I

l

 

 

l.
i
H Plays of America's Achievements
' By Samuel S. Ullman. Dodd, Mead and Company, New

York. 

jl HERE ARE SIx'rEEN PLAYS of approximately fifteen min-
’| utes’ playing time which present a picture of Ameri-
' can invention and achievements. Robert Fulton and the
lsteamboat, Eli \Vhitney and the cotton gin. Andrew
Carnegie and steel, Edison and the incandescent light,
are a few of the subjects which have been dramatized.
.; All of the plays are simple enough in properties, cos-
lltumes, and dialogue for production by amateurs from
' about twelve years up.

 

Safety Education

Eighteenth Yearbook. American Association of School
Administrators, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N. W., Wash-
ington, D. C. $2.00.

N HE ExECUTIVE COMMITTEE Of the American Associa'
tion of School Administrators, feeling that the time

had come for the teaching profession to take a more
positive stand on the safety movement, decided to make
Safety Education the topic of the 1940 Yearbook. A
Commission on Safety Education was appointed of which

i Henry H. Hill. Superintendent of Schools, Lexington,

Kentucky, was Chairman. The Yearbook prepared by the
liCommission is now available in the form of a volume of

approximately 550 pages. It is in no sense, the Commis-
lsion on Safety Education points out, a national curricu-
,1um in safety education and is not concerned with all
’phases Of the subject. Almost exclusive emphasis has
been placed upon procedures and activities carried out in
:the school or under the immediate direction of educators.
The Yearbook, however, contains a fund Of information

Iof value to all who are concerned with the field of safety
education.

 

Guide to Guidance

Volume. II. Compiled by Elizabeth Broad. National As-
soc1at10n of Deans of Women of the National Educa-

tion Association, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N. W., Wash-
ington, D. C. $.50.

HERE ARE ALMOST four hundred titles in this annotated

bibliography of 1939 publications Of interest to deans,
counselors, and advisers. Of special interest to recreation
workers are the sections dealing with Extracurricular
Activities, Social Life, and Leisure and Recreation.

The Sociology of Childhood

By Francis J. Brown, Ph.DI Prentice-Hall, Inc., New
York. $2.25.

DR. BROWN’S BOOK is based on the thesis that in the past

books on child welfare have been written to a large
extent from the point Of view of social pathology. There
is need, he believes, for greater study Of the sociology of
the normal child in order that processes which shape the
lives of most children may be better understood. After
considering the social processes involved, Dr. Brown
looks at the child in a number Of settings—in his relation
to his family group, to his play group, to his school, and
to the state. One section of the book is devoted to the
child and his leisure, and noncommercial and commercial
agencies are considered.

The Development of Certain Motor
Skills and Play Activities in
Young Children

By Theresa Dower Jones, Ph.D. Bureau of Publications,
Teachers College, Columbia University, New York.

$1.85.

HE AUTHOR PRESENTS in this volume the results Of a

genetic study Of the motor development Of preschool
children as revealed in their use of wheel play materials,
including wagon, doll carriage, kiddie kar, and dump
truck.

Philosophical Bases for

Physical Education

By Charles Harold McCloy. F. S. Crofts and Company,
New York. $2.50.

ALEADER IN THE PHYSICAL education field presents in
this volume his philosophy based on his experience.
He discusses fundamental issues in principles, objectives
and methods, and in the final chapter he essays the role
Of prophet and predicts developments and changes which
he believes will occur within the next ten years. The
book should be a very stimulating one for physical

educators.

403

404 NEIV PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

A Study of the Leisure Activities of Certain
Elementary School Teachers of Long Island.

By Lucile Allard, Ph.D. Bureau of Publications,
gegchers College, Columbia University, New York.
1. 0.

This study grew out of a desire to discover what cul-
tural and recreational activities were available to ele-
mentary school teachers on Long Island, and to learn if
possible what constitutes the leisure behavior patterns of
a selected group of teachers. Data were gathered through
a questionnaire prepared especially for the study and dis-
tributed through five areas on Long Island. A large per-
centage of teachers responded, and 490 participated in
the study. The study showed that there is no such indi-
vidual as the “typical” Long Island school teacher so far
as a leisure pattern of activities is concerned. The Long
Island group, as compared with other groups when ana-
lyzed for degree of participation in certain leisure activi-
ties, shows similarity in relative frequency of activities
carried on often. The activities which appeared most
frequently in every study are reading, radio, movies, visit-
ing friends, entertaining friends, and swimming. Physical
activities except walking are only slightly more popular
with Long Island teachers than with other groups. Par-
ticipation in activities in the order of their popularity is
as follows: reading newspapers, radio, automobiling, read-
ing fiction, visiting friends, reading nonhction, playing
musical instruments, attending movies, playing bridge,
and swimming.

“Leisure behavior patterns of individuals and groups of
today,” says the author in her conclusions, “are infiu-
enced by cost and availability as well as by technological
development, and perhaps even more |by education of the
individual in his early years. Also, participation of the
teacher group in leisure activities may be limited by the
number of hours or type of work expected in a particular
school or community.”

Tests and Measurements in Health
and Physical Education.

By Charles Harold McCloy. F. S. Crofts and Com—
pany, New York. $3.00.

An authority in the field of tests and measurements,
Mr. McCloy records in this volume the results of recent
research and teaching experience, including up-to-date
material, some of it hitherto unpublished. The descrip-
tions of tests are detailed and specific, and they are sup-
plemented where necessary with reproductions of forms,
tables, working drawings, and laboratory suggestions. A
classified bibliography is included.

Subject Index to Children’s Plays.

Compiled by Sub-Committee of the American Li—
brary Board on Library Service to Children and

Young People. American Library Association, Chi-
cago, Illinois. $3.50.

A handbook prepared to simplify one’s task of finding
plays suitable for every occasion—plays based on science,
civics, arts and crafts, music, thrift, health, animals, for-
eign countries, history, and many other subjects. The
2,200 plays listed are especially suitable for presentation
by pupils up through the eighth grade. Plays have been
indexed and may be located either by title or subject,
with their source, the grades for which they are suited,
the number of characters required, and other pertinent
information given. A very definite contribution to drama
leaders and teachers in need of an intelligent classifica-
tion of plays under many subjects.

Standards for College Buildings.

By E. S. Evenden, G. D. Strayer and N. L. Engel—
hardt. Bureau of Publications, Teachers College,
Columbia University, New York. $2.25.

The set of standards for college 'buildings proposed in
this volume is the fifth set of standards for school build-
ings published at Teachers College. The selection of the
set of standards given in this volume represents the com-

posite judgment of nearly three hundred persons wrlo am
familiar from many different angles with college buildings
and the purposes they must serve. The Evenden-Strayer-
Engelhardt Score Card for College Buildings is used in
connection with the standards which have 'been set up in
order that educational authorities may determine the units
most in need of improvement or which have been neg-
lected in the physical equipment of the institution. Units
of special interest to recreation workers include the ath—
letic fields and outdoor recreational facilities discussed,
the auditorium and music, boxing room, bowling alleys,
held houses, gymnasium, stadium, swimming pool, puppet
studio, theaters, and wood-working shop.

Successful Parties.

By Louise Price Bell. Fleming H. Revell Company,
New York. $1.50.

Based on the theory that successful parties never “just
happen,” Successful Parties contains detailed descriptions
of forty parties complete from invitations to recipes for
refreshments. Whether the hostess prefers informal hos-
pitality or formal entertaining, she will find here sugges-
tions for holidays and special occasions as well as un—
usual parties for any day or season of the year. In addi—
tion to planning parties, dinners, and dances for adults
in small groups, the author provides ideas for community
entertainments and the social functions of organizations,
clubs, and church groups. A section is also devoted to

parties for children.
I

 

 

Oflicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBr, Treasurer

HOWARD BRAUCHER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORRETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
llARRv P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. l.ANIER, Greenwich. Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass. .
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, AugIISIa, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. W'ADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

