Make Way for Progress

We’re in a hurry. Really in a dither. A five year plan—a ten year plan. We’ve made a schedule
for progress. The trains of progress must run regularly and on time. It is like a war. W e
have settled it.

It’s too bad if pe0ple don’t want to march that fast. Discard the old model. On with the new.
No time'to consult with the people affected. We’re building democracy. The people would
like it if we had time to tell them about it.

Speed up. Speed up. We’re in a machine age. No more time for “horse and buggy” in human
progress. A whole generation might miss the blessings we feel should be bestowed upon
them. We must fly. We’re in a hurry. Ding dong. Ding dong. Out of the way for progress.

Would the majority want it? Are they ready for it? Rather, can we slip it by? The pe0ple will
like it when they know it. We cannot wait.

Ride our horses before they are foaled. Eat our bread before it is baked. Put on our roof be-
fore we have dug the foundation. We are in a hurry.

How come? How have we become so wondrous wise, so inspired, so infallible?
How do we know we are so right?
Suppose the people don’t like it, don’t want it. Suppose the pe0ple have an instinctive feeling as
to what is good for them.
’ The way of education is slow.

Discussion back and forth is tedious.
The dream is lost before it is consummated.
We are bored.

Rush. Hurry. Turn on the heat. Bring pressure to bear.
, A little force here, a little force there.
‘ It’s all in the name of democracy.

The end justifies the means.

Progress cannot wait.

We know. We are sure. We are the people.

. Man made the machines.

Man’s machine world hypnotizes him.

Food, clothes, shelter come from machines.

Let progress be machine-made too.

Speed. Speed. Speed up the machine. Speed up progress.
- We are on our way—we are on the march.

Why should man—the ordinary man have any part in progress, in his own progress?

That’s too slow. ‘

We can’t wait.

We gallop fast on a treadmill. We get nowhere. The light is not in us. Nothing permanent
abides. Only dust and ashes.

Only abides What grows in the hearts and lives of the common men.

Life is in the living of it.

Life is in the working of it out.

Growth and education are slow.

So slow we must be careful not to make it slower.

. But men are not forever machines.
Progress cannot be secured by treating them as if they were.

Men instinctively reject progress which they have had no share in creating for themselves.

Better live poor, threadbare, working one’s own progress upward, than have rich garments, rare
foods and see much greater progress passed out to one by wise men above who wished
quickly to build a culture they had decided would 'be good for all men.

Better progress be slow than so fast that men concerned have no part in it.
We shall go faster and arrive sooner if we don’t go too fast, if we all go together, if we take
time to think, to pray, to grow together, and welcome gladly self-education for others as well

as for ourselves.
W Gwoéuvl/

 

‘ MAY I940

 

 

 

 

x.
.Wusstitt!

   

VS a

.3.. . a. 5 _
_\
a. .
iv QQKH*U‘§ HUD‘U

m

‘_

    

_ "

 

P’IIIIIIllll'llnllllllt|llllIIUUl-Ill|l

  

 

N. >31wa «$30

4 4"}? W?! L” .1 Hit «Nu.
m...  ...
J. a.“ L 55.8. n . .
. wuuxknwxuN §a§$nm
E. ,

 

‘

 

\ .
n
O
.
.
“ H‘t‘u

 QINM\.K Q1L§hn

VMQQ . QQQ

 

1‘ w - .
_ . _ g . . 5
5.: .eMA." xxx a?“ _ 41;..82" 57.x ..

             

\«k\.U \(QQX \‘NKK \
tC\|h “\L‘RQPUIVQ VQtQFK‘t
LMNL kn. uq\u\.. \
.xoshou .II \‘U\§L\Qub\ll\v .

INK\H \KU\\_\\QU.QE.\.UD\ \

_ I, knwwq QQQ§Q9Q§$MQ
_ ca Kxxhkxné .3ka . .ax .\R§k\;.

§LNQ§ \

 

Preparation for Acquiring Recreation Areas

' By F. ELLWOOD ALLEN

Specialist in Recreation Facilities
National Recreation Association

HERE IS nothing unusual in
Ta municipality” acquiring

land for recreation use by
direct purchase. It is rather sig-
nificant, however, when a town explores the full
possibilities of a piece of land and prepares a plan
for its development before the purchase is con-
summated. The'Town of Greenwich, Connecti-
cut. well known for its line recreation facilities,
has just demonstrated the feasibility of such
procedure.

Citizens of the town at a recent town meeting
voted unanimously to acquire eight and one-half
acres of land in the Pemberwick section of the
town and to develop this area as a neighborhood
park. To the casual observer the Pemberwick
acres might seem wholly unsuited for playground
purposes. The tOpography 0f the land is exceed-
ingly irregular. A cliff thirty feet high rises
abruptly in the center of the property, forming a
heavily wooded ridge broken by intermittent ra-
vines. At one extremity a spring feeds a brook
which flows across the property. It is no wonder
that a layman finds it difficult to visualize a play—
ground in an area cut in two by a brook and
composed of cliffs, ravines, and woods—especially
if he thinks in terms of football, baseball, and

similar types of outdoor activities. A trained rec- ‘

reation leader, however, could see Where many
features of the area, apparently obstacles in the

path of development, could be put to good recrea-
tional use.

For a long time the Recreation Board of Green-
wich had believed that
the Pemberwick prop-

enjoyment,’ and here was an-
other piece of property compar-
able in beauty to the existing
parks in the city which the Rec-
reation Board judged, could be developed to meet
the demands of a diversified program for all age
groups.

Before advocating the purchase of the area, the
Board asked the National Recreation Association
for assistance. After a careful study of the prop-
erty, the Association confirmed their opinion of its
recreation potentialities. In order to show the peo-
ple of Greenwich What could be done with the
Pemberwick acreage-—-—should the town desire to
acquire it—the Association prepared a plan, and
the results more than justified the belief of the
Recreation Board. The plan was exhibited in
various neighborhood commercial establishments
where people could study it and examine the full
possibilities. That they approved was shown by
their unanimous vote for acquisition of the
property.

The plan prepared by the National Recreation
Association is shown on the opposite page. It will
be noted from the plan that facilities are provided
for all age groups and that opportunities are af-
forded for cultural as well as physical activities.

The section of the site facing Pemberwick
Road is graded to provide many types of facilities
requiring a level area. At the south end of the
property the plan suggests a softball diamond with
overhanging backstop and also a large level sec-

tion for various types of field games such as
football and soccer.

This section would be

erty had unusual possi-
bilities. “'ell located
from the standpoint of
population distribution
and easily accessible, it
was situated in a section
of the town that was
deficient in play space.
The parks of Green-
wich are unusual in nat-
ural beauty and their
accompanying develop-
ment for human use and

Wise planning interprets a recreation program in
terms of facilities. Too often the reverse has
been true and many a program has had to adapt it-
self to existing _facilities. Before land is ac-
quired for recreation purposes its full possibili-
ties should be explored. The plan followed in
Greenwich. Connecticut. proves such procedure not
only feasible but necessary if recreation areas
are to be planned for the best advantage of all
who are to use them. Commenting on the plan for
Greenwich. James Stevens. Superintendent of Rec-
reation. says: "If Mr. Allen's plans are followed.
Greenwich will have a most practical memorial to
the intelligent services rendered by the National
Recreation Association -through its specialists."

devoted primarily to ac—
tivities for boys. An
adjacent section has
been reserved for girls’
activities, including
softball and field games
such as field hockey and
soccer. The softball dia-
mond has a forty-five
foot baseline.

The main entrance to
the area is slightly to

(Continued on. page 114)
67

Now Thal: Day Camping Has Come of Age '

Day camping is the happy experience more and more children
are enjoying in being transported in the morning to a care-
fully chosen beauty spot not far from the city, and brought
home in the evening after a day of satisfying play. Begin-
ning as an experiment, it has become a highly successful
method of introducing boys and girls to the out of doors.

We Look at: Day Camping

By MAUDE L. DRYDEN

HE MORE URBAN our population becomes, the

more apparent is the need for many varieties

of camps. Day camping is the most recent
type of camping to find a place for itself in the
program. and it is proving successful in filling in
the gaps which exist in many camp projects.

News of day camping experiments come from
large metropolitan areas and small towns; from
densely populated regions to rural districts in the
Middle \Vest; from the Northwest, the South,
and from nearly every state in the Union. Ad—
vocates of the plan represent varied interests, and
groups include private schools, private service
agencies, municipal and county departments, pub-
lic schools, and many semi-public agencies. Vari-
ous combinations of groups are to be found‘ pool-
ing their resources. In Houston, Texas, for
example, there is a day camp committee composed
of representatives of all agencies conducting day
camps—the Y.W.C.A., Y.M.C.A., Settlement As-
sociation, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, and City Rec-
reation Department. The committee meets once a
month from February until the day camp season
begins in June. Meetings
are held again at the end of
the season to discuss the
program.

Day camp sites are to be
found in usual and in unex-
pected places—on private
camp properties and private
estates, in restricted sum-
mer colonies, in yards of
suburban blocks, in lots and
crowded cities, in play-
grounds and parks, and On

68

Mrs. Dryden. the author of the booklet on
Day Camping, issued in I939 by the Na-
tional Recreation Association. states that
information received in answer to inquiries _ o .
sent cities reporting on organized recrea- ing, and With addltlonal
tion programs shows that while approxi-
mately a quarter of the communities reply-
ing do not have day camps. the remaining
three quarters are either conducting such
camps. and are proud of their accomplish-
ments. or are planning soon to initiate a
program. The tone of the responses. Mrs.
Dryden reports. was uniformly enthusiastic.

roof tops. One camp in Lakewood, Ohio, is known
as the day camp on wheels.

To reach these sites day campers are bound by
no one procedure. They may ride luxuriously in
station wagons or busses, or they may go to their
destinations by using public conveyances. Lacking
any of these facilities, they may go afoot!

Day camping, then, is the essence of resource-
fulness, and it is this element which as in other
types of camping makes it valuable in the edu-
cation-for-life process. Day camping, following
week-end camping, designed to help retain the
values of summer camps has come into being to
offer opportunities to those who cannot go to or-
ganized camps and to make possible the advantages
of camping during all seasons of the year. Many
leaders are looking forward to the time when
camping will be included in the school curriculum
in order that all children may have the rich and
vitalizing experience camping offers.

Training Leaders

Training for camp leadership has for many
years been offered in a number of colleges and
universities. Teachers College, Columbia Uni-
versity, is credited with having given the first
college course in camp leadership. Other institu-
tions later offered similar
courses, with Syracuse Uni-
versity giving a four year
course leading to a degree
of BS. in Organized Camp-

study, to a degree of Master
of Science in Organized
Camping or Master of Rec—
reational Engineering.

At Columbia, Dr. Fred-
erick Maroney, director of
the course in camp leader-

NOW THAT DAY CAMPING HAS COME OF AGE 69

ship, a few years
ago included a
section on day
camping. re—
peating it the
following year
with greatly in-
creased attend-
ance. Dr. L. B.
Sharp at New
York Universi-
ty and Dr. Wil—
liam Vinal at
Massachusetts
State College
each devoted a
session of his
training course ‘ . I v
to the topic. 2  .   . -
VVPA in‘ New

York City has

conducted a fifteen-weeks’ course each year for
the past six years. The \Vestchester County, New
York, Recreation Commission has for several
years held a session on day camping. Other or—
ganizations giving attention to this subject have
included the New York Section of the American
Camping Association, the Camp Directors’ Pow-
VVows in New York City, the Y.M.H.A. and
Y.\V.H.A. state organizations in New Jersey, and
many other organizations. Sessions on day camp-
ing at the National Recreation Congresses have
attracted large attendance.

At the time day camping was beginning to
receive consideration, a group of day camp lead—
ers in New York began a series of informal yearly
discussions for the purpose of establishing basic
principles and of setting some simple but con-
crete standards. These leaders represented pri—
vate and public groups in widely divergent parts
of the country. A few of the points of agree-
ment and conclusions reached may be briefly
stated: °

It is the responsibility of day camping to en—
courage greater familiarity with forms of recre-
ation available in the open country and to give
this program a place of equal importance with
city planned activities.

Fundamentally day camping is a nature recrea-
tion program with a variety of activities relating
themselves intimately to this conception. No bet-
ter means has been discovered to accomplish this
purpose than has been built up in organized camp

 

programs; con-
sequently day
camps must ad-
here as stead-
fastly as possi-
bl e t o c a m p
i d e al 5, a n (1
every effort
should be made
to adapt and
apply these
practices in
whatever cir-
cumstances and
at whatever
season the day
camp program
is in operation.

As the day
camping move-
ment continues
its quiet and unobtrusive growth, the one thing
essential is the careful, wise cultivation of the
possibilities inherent in it. Day camping must
have the sound nurture it deserves to make it an
increasingly important ally of existing established
camps.

o .’
DJ» 9"

I .. , , -‘ 9*
Courtesy WPA, New York City

We Experimentin Day Camping

By PAT ABERNETHY

Recreation Commission
Raleigh, North Carolina

THE GIRLS who attended our day camp last sum-
mer were a real cross section of Raleigh—~—
from college professors’ children to habitues of
the Juvenile Court——and they all got along beau-
tifully. We worked jointly with the Girl Scouts
and the Y.VV.C.A., under the sponsorship of the
Wake County Council of Social Agencies, and
produced a day camp for a month in early sum-
mer. Monday was reserved for weekly staff
training meetings, and the camp was held four
days a week (Tuesday through Friday) from 9 :30
to 3 :30. For health’s sake, the Wake County
Health Department sent a nurse to pay a brief
daily visit. We never needed her, but it was a
comfortable feeling to know that she was avail-
able if we wanted her.

In reality we conducted two camps, one for
white girls and one for Negroes. The camp for

70 NOW THAT DAY CAMPING HAS COME OF AGE

white children was held at Pullen Park and the
adjacent City Armory. The Armory is surrounded
by a huge grassy area of two or three acres, and
there are plenty of big shade trees—magnolias,
water oaks, and others—with branches that bend
almost to the ground. making fine little “houses”
where our various units could meet.

The leadership for the camp was supplied by
the Scouts, the Y.W.C.A., and the Raleigh Recrea-
tion Commission, plus two WPA recreation lead—
ers from the playgrounds. The other staff mem-
bers were volunteers—Junior Leaguers, college
girls on vacation, and Scout troop leaders.

The campers were divided by age into three
general groups: seven to ten years of age, ten to
fourteen, and fourteen to eighteen. These groups
were redivided into smaller activity units of ten
members, with a counselor for each group. There
were more girls in the ten to fourteen age group
than in the other two, so that this class comprised
about half of the entire enrollment.

Each morning, at assembly, we started the day
off with singing and some kind of folk dance such
as “Captain Jinks,” “Oh, Susanna,” or “Ach Ia.”
and made whatever announcements were neces-
sary. Then we divided into the unit groups for
the day’s program. We had a similar closing as-
sembly the last thing in the afternoon. The folk
dancing and music were an integral part of the
program and well liked by the girls.

We tried to make the programs as varied as
possible, including land and water sports, arts and
crafts, music and folk dancing, storytelling and
dramatics. The most popular activity was, of
course, the water program. \Ve had three Red
Cross instructors in charge at all times, assisted
by two or three Junior and Senior life savers.
Non-swimmers were taught to swim, and the more
advanced swimmers were coached in form and
speed or given life saving instruction. The City
Commissioner of Public Works was cooperative in
our water program. He reduced the swimming
rate at the pool to five cents per swim, and the
campers brought their own towels. He gave us
free use of the boats on the park lake for boating;
occasionally the Park Superintendent would invite
the whole crew down for a free ride on the merry-
go-round! Boating, however, was given only to
the older girls, since the smaller ones were hardly
strong enough to handle the boats. The younger
campers were taken for rides by the water front
staff by way of compensation.

We had an outdoor archery range in the park
which we used in fair weather. Archery also was
reserved for the teen-age girls, and it proved very
popular with them. So much interest and pro-
ficiency was shown in archery that a Junior Arch—
ery Association is being formed. The day camp
archery group is the nucleus, and the activity will
be sponsored by the Raleigh Archery Association,
formed by the Raleigh Recreation Commission.

The only disadvantage about these three sports
—swimming, boating, and archery—was that they.
entailed a quarter~mile hike from the camp site,
but at least we got plenty of hiking without label—
ing it as such!

We had paddle tennis, badminton, and volley-
ball courts laid out in shady spins, and a ping-
pong table was placed under a big elm. Other
games such as horseshoes, dodge ball, various re-
lays, and circle games proved popular, and deck
tennis took like wild fire. The adjoining softball
field could be used by the girls, but we did not
play softball, prefering other games and activities.

Various types of handcraft were offered to the
girls at no cost to them, for the expense was borne
jointly by the three agencies. There was no ex—
pensive work, but it was enjoyed just as much as
if it had cost a lot. We made plaster. of Paris
plaques, and painted vases from mustard jars and
other containers which the children supplied: Some
one gave the Commission two barrels of scrap
leather, so we did leather work, making belts,
pocketbooks, and caps.

A leader from the WPA Art Center came out
twice a week and conducted sketch groups in pen-
cil and water color. Some interesting results were
obtained, and some of the work was quite good.
The art groups also did clay modeling.

Our nature study project contained the identi-
fication and labeling of the trees in the park, and
picnickers will now know whether they are dining
under a magnolia, a sweet gum, or some other
kind of tree. The actual signs were made as a
handcraft project, out of tin, with little “roofs”
to protect the lettering from the weather. Hand—
craft was combined with nature study in another
form, a bird study game. The younger girls made
cardboard birds, colored like birds they had seen
and identified, fastened them to sticks and sailed
them through the air. Some of the plaque work
was done with leaf patterns, as an additional
alignment of handcraft and nature study.

NOW THAT DAY CAMPING HAS COME OF AGE . 71

\Ve had storytelling periods two times a week.
Miss Lucy Cobb, who has written several books of
children’s stories, came out to the camp whenever
we asked her, and told the children some of her
stories, the old, familiar ones as well as newer
tales. This feature was especially enjoyed by the
younger children.

Of course dramatics was a popular pastime,
and the girls were given ample Opportunity to
work out their own ideas. They acted out fairy
stories, songs, and simple playlets. Their version
of “Ferdinand the Bull” was a gem, and “Cin-
c1ere11a” was lovely. Most of the dramatic pro-
duction was done out of doors, with good results.

Another interesting feature was the class in
First Aid and Home Hygiene given by the local
Red "Cross nurse. It was taught in a practical way,
and we thought it one of the best things offered
the older girls.

For indoor activities the Armory proved ideal
for our purpose. It is big and cool, with a stage
at one end (designed for a dance orchestra), and
a piano. We could use an indoor archery range
downstairs in the pistol range, and the lavatory
facilities are well arranged. On rainy days we had
room enough to do anything indoors that we could
have done outdoors, although we worked outside
as much as possible. The “weather man” was most
cooperative about slating bad weather for days
when the camp did not meet. Except for exces-
sive heat on a few days, the weather was fine.

For camp closing we had camp all day, inviting
the families of the girls to come out for a late
afternoon swim or boat ride, a picnic supper, and
a campfire program. About one hundred pai'ents
and younger brothers and sisters came to enjoy a
day at camp.

In general, the same program had been carried
out at the Negro camp. The City Commissioner
of Public Works made the same arrangements at
the City Park for Negroes as he had made at
Pullen Park. The Negro girls enjoyed the same
activities, with the exception of boating, for there
is no lake at their park. There is, however, a
beautiful shaded spring near the athletic field, so
on a flat bank just by the spring the girls did
their outdoor cooking, with all the comforts of
home, including running water. The director re-
ported that outdoor cooking
was so popular with the girls
that some of them asked to
cook in preference‘to swim- "
ming!

Jqu as a reminder! Copies of a book-
lef. Day Camping, by Maude L. Dryden,
are available from fhe Nafional Recrea-
fion Associafion af fwenfy-five cenfs.

The Negro staff was exceptional. The wife of
the principal of the Negro High School was the
director, aided by a fine volunteer staff of teachers
and other Negro leaders who served as regular
counselors.

The Negro camp was built around an Indian
theme, with handcraft, archery, music, and other
activities appropriately included. We had only a
few bows, so it was necessary to haul them back
and forth across town to do duty at both camps,
but it was worth the effort. This sport fitted per-
fectly into the Indian theme, and most of the girls
had never had a chance to enjoy archery. They
took to it like ducks to water.

The final day of the Negro camp was similar to
that at Pullen Park. It was an all day affair, with
a campfire program at the close. It was indeed a
joyful sight to see all those Negro children
dressed in the Indian costumes they had designed,
dancing around a fire in front of a handmade
tepee and singing, “Certn’y Lawd”!

We ran the camps for a month, from June 20th
to July I_4th. We had decided not to try the proj-
ect for too long a period of time the first year,
since it was still in the experimental stage. At the
end of the season we considered the camp success—
ful in every way but numerically. We had about
150 registered at the camp for white girls, and
about 300 at the Negro camp. These figures may
be satisfactory enough for the first year of camp,
but we did not reach the number of girls in the
district who could have been interested. Of course
we never had a hundred per cent attendance of
the'registration. Some girls attended each day
through the entire time, some came frequently,
and others came for weekly intervals spaced
around family vacations and regular camping
periods. Attendance at the white camp varied
from sixty to one hundred per day, and 175 to
200 at the Negro camp.

The newspaper gave us. good publicity, both
in news stories and pictures. The radio stations
scheduled several talks by prominent individuals,
and also plugged the camp at frequent intervals
with “spot announcements.” By these means we
were able to reach a large number of girls who
were interested in our program.

The best indication of the success of the day
camp came from the com-

ments of the girls who at-
tended and their parents.
They said that they wished
the camp could have continued

72 NOW THAT DAY CAMPING HAS COME OF AGE

for a month longer. Sweet music indeed to our
ears! Because of their enthusiasm, next year we
intend to plan the camp for a period of at least

two months.

Madison’s Day Camp

By DON CHRISTY
Boys' Program Director

Madison Y.M.C.A.

ACATION TIME is close upon us. In a few days
Vthousands of boys and girls throughout this
land of ours will be leaving the school rooms for
the three summer months. What will they do?
Have they been trained to use their leisure time
wisely? Can dad afford to send Johnny to camp
for even a one-week period, or must he spend his
summer playing ball in the heavy trafficked
streets of the city with one eye on the ball and
the other on the approaching car?
The children from the well-to-do families have
an opportunity to go to camp, or spend their time
at a resort with Mom and Dad. Children from
the “less chance” homes quite frequently can at-
tend the “fresh air” or “sunshine camps” spon—
sored by social service organizations or service
clubs. What about the boy and girl from the
average home? Their parents cannot afford to
send them away and the service organization
seems to neglect them entirely.
In Madison, “7isconsin, the Y.M.C.A. is mak-
ing it possible‘for every boy between the ages of
nine and twelve to have an opportunity to have
the benefit of a camp experience this summer, at
a low cost, through the day camp program. The
camp will be operated in Y.M.C.A. property on
beautiful Lake Mendota just eleven miles from
the heart of the city. There ninety boys each day
may participate in a wholesome outdoor program
under competent leadership. There they may live
close to nature, enjoy a well-balanced camp pro-
gram in a happy and healthful atmosphere.
Consider a typical day at Camp Wakanda, our
day camp. .
8:00- 8:30——Pick-up time. The boys are picked up in
groups at their school playgrounds.

8:30- 9:00—En route to camp—singing as we go.

9:00- 9:30—Clean-up time. Cabins and grounds are
cleaned by the 'boys.

9130- 9 :40—Flag raising—announcements.

9:40-10:15r-Free play period (crafts. archery, campus
games, etc.)

10:15—11 :OO—Organized activities by tribes (hikes, crafts,
baseball, boating, etc).

11 100-12 :OO—Swimming.

12:00- 1:00—Lunch period—songs—announcements.

1:00— 2:00—Rest period.

2 :00— 3 :OO—Organized sports.

3:00- 3:45—Free play (crafts, games, archery, boating,
fishing).

3 :45- 4:30—Swimming.

4:30- 5:00—Dress—pack up.

5:00— 5:30—En route home.

The program is elastic enough to meet almost
any situation that might arise. Several all-day
indoor programs are prepared in advance for cold
or rainy .days. These programs might consist of
indoor track meets, stories, stunt hours, progres-
sive games, and the like. The “rainy day” pro-
grams proved so popular last year that many of
the boys actually looked forward to a cold or
rainy day so that they might participate in the
indoor events. Breaks in the routine scheduled

added zest and pep to the program.

Special events were conducted throughout the
camping period to give variety to the program.
Some of these are listed below.

Trip to Chicago—zoo and Big League baseball
game. (Free tickets were secured.)

A day at Ringling Brothers circus.

Campers’ Day———~boys acted as counselors, in—
structors, and Camp Director.

Paul Bunyan Day.°
Overnight camping every Friday night.
Canoe trips around the lakes.

The Olympics—msports events of all kinds.
Athletic contests of all kinds with nearby camps.

The boys are picked up in groups at their school
playgrounds and taken to camp in an all—steel school
bus which is well insured. The song leader keeps the
boys busy singing the eleven miles to camp. Each
boy is welcomed by a song as he boards the bus.

On arrival at camp, every camper goes to his
cabin, makes up his bunk, and helps clean the
cabin and grounds. At 9 :30, the call is given for
the flag raising, the tribe with the cleanest cabin-
and grounds have the honor of raising and lower-
ing the flag for the day. The boys consider this a
real honor and do their best to win it.

During the next period the boys may participate
in a variety of activities. Archery, boating, fish-
ing, horseshoes, and crafts and nature hikes
prove the most popular. The boys are encouraged
to participate in these activities as tribes and to
vary their activities from day to day.

NOW THAT DAY CAMPING HAS COME OF AGE 73

Eleven o’clock is swim time and all campers are
carefully graded according to aquatic skill. Special
areas are roped off for the swimmer as well as the
non-swimmer. Each group is supervised by Red
Cross life guards. Every precaution is taken to
promote safety. Instruction is given to every boy
during this morning swim and a carefully worked
out system of testing is used to measure progress.

Youthful appetites soon dispose of the home-
made lunches. The camp provides a pint of milk
for each boy. After the lunches are devoured the
remaining thirty minutes is used in the singing of
camp songs and announcements regarding the
afternoon program. At this time mock trials are
also held to handle any disciplinary problems that
can be handled by the boys themselves. Other
problems are handled individually by the counse-
lors or camp director.

‘ After lunch the boys go to their cabins and rest
upon their bunks. This is a good time for story-
telling, quiz contests, and planning tribal activities.
At first the boys objected to this forced rest period,
but after a few days in camp they began to realize
they could enjoy the afternoon program more
fully when fortified by this after lunch rest.

From two o’clock to three organized sports com-
prised the program. Here inter-tribe contests of
all kinds were held, and occasionally softball,
tennis, and swimming contests were held with

boys from nearby camps.

Free play followed the organized activities and
again the boys had opportunity to choose from
many activities.

The afternoon swimming period is as carefully
supervised as the morning session. However, no
instruction is given, and more water games and
free play is permitted. Swimmers always check
in and out of the water, by placing their names
on the check board in the proper position. The
“buddy system” of checking is also used, and sev-
eral times during each swim period the Whistle is
blown and each boy holds his hand in the air with
his buddy. This double check plus adequate su-
pervision of the rOped off swimming area practi-
cally guarantee against any serious accident.

Time has come now to pack up and get ready
for the trip home. Each boy packs up his belong-
ings, straightens up his bunk, and reports at the
flag pole. The flag is lowered, roll is called, and
we are off again for the city. The song leader
starts off with a peppy song and the boys sing
lustin until the last fellow is off the bus.

The Madison “Y” day camp differs from the
ordinary day camp in several respects. We use
our private grounds, lodge and cabins as head-
quarters. The cabins are not necessary but they
do aid in the program. We also give the boys an
opportunity to stay over night 'on Friday night if
they so desire. The boys that want to go back to
the city are taken home in private cars by a group
of parents.

The camp is not run for profit. Charges are
made only for actual cost of running the camp
plus a small amount for maintenance and repairs.
The fee is fifteen dollars for the entire six-week
period, or sixty cents a day for shorter periods.
This fee pays for transportation, leadership,
maintenance, milk, and program supplies.

Success in the day camp program depends upon
the extent of preparations made. A number of
eXperiments and adjustments will be found nec-
essary, but in general you must have pretty well
in mind your objectives and just how you plan to
achieve them.

Leadership is of prime importance. The COUn-
selors should be carefully selected and trained.
This type of camping is not just a poor substitute
for the regular camp, but rather a new pioneering
summer program that can be of extreme value to
the development of child life in your community.
It is actually harder, in my estimation, to conduct
a program of this type than to conduct a regular
camp over the same period of time. If you are
thinking of experimenting in this field, keep the
following principles in mind:

Secure a suitable site. One that has safe, clean
water for drinking and bathing, suitable playing
fields, good play apparatus, sanitary facilities, a
pavilion for shade and protection in inclement
weather. The site should be accessible, but not
too close to the city. It is important to have that
“away from home” atmosphere. It should give the
appearance of being wild and natural.

Secure safe fransportafion. Use all-steel busses
rather than trucks. They may cost more, but the
liability risk is less. Make certain you have ade-
quate insurance. Use good drivers and drive as
cautiously as possible. Start early so it is not
necessary to speed to your destination.

Secure good leadership. Train your COUnselors
so that they can contribute something worth while
to the campers. Have one counselor for at least

ten campers.

74 NOIV THAT DAY CAMPING HAS COME OF AGE

Make safety one of your main obiectives. Have
a nurse or doctor available on short notice. Watch
out for natural hazards. Snakes, poison ivy,
rough waters, and swamps are dangerous. [You
can avoid many accidents by close supervision.
Have first aid equipment available at all times. It
is wise to have each camper examined by a phy-
sician before he enters camp.

There is a great need for a continued well—in-
tegrated program of education throughout the
year. A child’s education does not end when school
closes in the spring. There is need for a well-
planned educational and recreational program

during the summer months. The day camp should '

offer a well-integrated program of science, wood
craft, nature study, skill acquirement and body

development in the best of nature’s surroundings.
Camping is definitely a necessary supplement to
the life of the city boy if he is to enjoy the full-
ness of life.

The day camp can make a great contribution to
the goal of a well-balanced educational program
when properly conducted by competent trained

directors.

Nature Camps and Problems

By CHARLES A. HOUSE

0R MANY YEARS the secrets of nature were con-
F cealed from the eyes of our youth. Hazards
of variOUS kinds stood in the way, and lack of in-
spiration on the part of leaders resulted in years
of wasted time. Today many of these old obstacles
have been removed and day camps, long recog-
nized as valuable, are being enjoyed. It is still
true, however, that there are many problems to be
solved, and it is with a few of these that this dis-
cussion is concerned.

Some of the Problems

One of the first problems in the organization of
a nature camp is that of transportation. It is un-
fortunately true that the ma-
jority of good sites for a
camp are far removed from
accessible points. The desir-
able big woods are usually
outside the city limits. Where
this is the case, there is an
even more unfortunate fact
to be reckoned with. Readily

"Children will not tire of watching tiny
miracles untoldI nor will they be bored
by a meaningful drama stocked with
every artifice known to the theater and
with many that are not. It is a true say-
ing that 'all the world's a stage.’ and it
is equally true to say that a good
nature leader supplies the ticket of ad-
mission to the 'greatest show on earth!’ "

accessible woods are all to often hopelessly van-
dalized. Birds have long since been frightened
away; flowers have been picked indiscriminately;
trees have been girdled and hacked by hatchet-
wielding brethren, and other acts of vandalism
have been performed. As a result, the; distant
fields are more desirable, and the transporting of

lively children to these spots is a problem.
The Recreation Department of the Milwaukee,

\Visconsin, School Board, has been fortunate in
its solution of this problem. Since Milwaukee can
boast of three nature camps it is possible for each
playground in the city to offer its children at least
one trip to a camp during the summer. Each play—
ground for this purpose is an “A” playground, a
“B” playground, or a “C” playground. The chil-
dren from the “A” playground pay ten cents and
assemble at their ground at 8:00 A. M. A bus
chartered from the local transport company picks
them up and delivers them within a half hour to
the camp. This bus then goes directly to the “B”
playground where the children have assembled,
pay their ten cents, and are ready to leave at 9 :00
o’clock. The children are taken to another day
camp, arriving between 9:00 and 9:30. The bus
then goes to the “C” playground, picking up the
children who have been ready to leave before
10 :00 o’clock and taking them to the third or last
day camp.

The return home is accomplished in much the
same way. The “A” group is met by the bus at
4:00 o’clock; the “B” group at 5 :00 o’clock at the
latest; and the “C” grOUp at 6:00 o’clock. The
ten cent fee paid by the children helps defray the
otherwise prohibitive cost of transportation and
of the bottle of milk given each child at dinner
time.

A “chaperone” rides to and from the camp with
the group and spends the entire day with the
children. She is of tremendous help to the nat-
uralist in charge of the camp, who meets the
children as they arrive.

A second problem concerns the actual dissemi-
nation of information of nature lore. The amount
of information to be given a
group is a question depend-
ing entirely upon the qualifi—
cations of the naturalist. In
past years many tours through
beautiful woods were con-
ducted by guides with .unsee-
ing eyes. Good naturalists

(Continued on page 116)

Pageantry on the Playground

OME PEOPLE feel that there
can be nothing new in the
way of a pageant; the old

ideas have been worked and
reworked so many times they
have gone stale. Still others
are firmly convinced that origi-
nal productions are bound to
be amateurish and not worth
the time and training. Many,
however, believe that children’s
pageants on the playgrounds can be original, un-
usual, effective—and the pageants produced by
these individuals prove their belief. The stories
provide interesting continuity, and are effective in
showing summer playground activities. The pag-
eants emerge as entertainment combined with a
demonstration of what children have been doing
on the playgrounds.

That others may learn of these interesting pag—
eants and how they were produced, here are the
stories of a few of the pageants given on last

summer’s playgrounds.

Historical Pageants
One type of pageant which can be produced on
the playground centers about the historical back—
ground of the community, a phase of national his-
tory, or an important contemporary event.

Panorama of Nebraska

For example, Lincoln, Nebraska, determined to
reproduce the history of the state of Nebraska
from prehistoric to modern times for the finale of
the playground season in that community. '

Story. Huge reptiles were presented against
dense tropical vegetation, enhanced by blue light-
ing effects, to portray the prehistoric period. The
next scene was an Indian village .and the arrival
of the Spanish Coronado. Then came an episode
showing the pioneer period, including the entrance
of Lewis'and Clark into the territory, followed
by trappers, the pony express, cattlemen, and stage
coaches. The cast then pictured the era of sod
houses, homesteaders and the coming of the rail-
road. After this came a dance of various nation-
alities which settled in Nebraska, showing folk
dances and flags of many nations. The impres-
sive concluding words of the narrator were:

The pageants outlined here represent
only a few examples and cover merely
two types of playground pageants. but
they may serve to provide ideas for
. The National Recre-
ation Association will be glad to re-
ceive details of other pageants given
on playgrounds so that these experi-
ences in writing and production may
be shared through the medium of
the magazine or the bulletin service.

some community

“The arts, the colorful costumes,
the visions—the very blood of all
these people have been fused to-
gether here on the prairies. Though
our forefathers came from the for-
ests of central Europe. from Mer-
rie England, from the fjords of
Scandinavia, the sunlit shores of
Italy, the steppes of Russia, the
mountains of Mexico, or the depths
of Asia—today, tonight, we are all
Nebraskans.”

The grand finale was the
singing of “My Nebraska” by the cast against a
background of a miniature capitol bathed in white
light.

Backstage Notes. More than 3,000 persons en-' '
tered into the production of this panorama: chil-
dren, directors and leaders from the Lincoln play-
grounds; adult aides and actors from clubs, busi-
ness organizations, the Chamber of Commerce,
schools and colleges. ‘The script-writers consulted
the Superintendent of the State Historical Society
for accuracy in historical details. The stage in
Pioneer Park, where the pageant was given, was
lighted by eighteen 1,500 watt Hoodlights, taken
temporarily from the community baseball dia- ,
monds.

Royalty Visits Springtield.

Springfield, Massachusetts, built a pageant about
the general interest in the visit of the King and
Queen of England. All playground special day
acts were combined as though they were arranged
in honor of the King and Queen. Their Royal
Majesties in this case were the King and Queen
of the Springfield Playgrounds.

Story. The pageant began with the embarking
of the King and Queen on the cruiser-stage. The
rest of the program followed as entertainment
planned for the King and Queen while on board.
To represent passage of time, the ship’s bell rang
at intervals, the watch was changed, taps were
sounded. A comedy scene centered about a mop
brigade scrubbing the decks to the tune of “Nola.”
Inspection came in the form of a military tap
dance, and Training Period was represented by
tumblers and fencers performing to music. Rec-
reation Hour brought the stewards and steward-
esses together in a tap dance. After an informal

75

76 PAGEANTRY ON THE PLAYGROUND

sing, a pantomime ballad, “The Arkansas Travel—
er,” and an eccentric dance by Raggedy Anne and
Andy, the Recreation Hour ended with a grand
promenade.

Next pirates came aboard. took possession of the
ship, and did a dance. After the sailors regained
control, there followed a hornpipe, ballroom se-
quence, Virginia reel, and a stately minuet. The
pageant ended as the watch reported “Land O”
and the ship arrived at (lock in a closing chorus of
“God Bless America.”

Backstage Notes. The stage was a ship, 125
feet long, built by placing four grandstands and
several other platforms together. The front of
the boat was painted an aluminum grey and let-
tered in black. Flags were strung from the top
of the 45-foot mast to the bow and stern. A
movable gangplank connected the field and the
boat; it was removed by a ground crew immedi-
ately after the opening scenes. Runways served
as entrances and exits for the various acts. A
chorus of .125 persons, seated on the bleachers in
the stern, carried the theme of the pageant with
their songs; two Federal Orchestra Units from
the W PA Music Project supplied the music from
their position on the stage. A Log Book, four
feet high and three, feet wide, was made on one
city playground by the children. Two sailors
turned the pages, and the book illustrated each
act and served as a means of announcing the
numbers. Aside from the calls by the sailors on
watch, there was no speaking of lines in the pag-
eant. The flags, the ship’s bells and whistles served
to give a gala setting for the royal program. Over
5 50 children participated.

Fantasy and Fairy Tales

Fantasy and fairy tales provide a theme for a
charming pageant, one which the children really
will enjoy producing.

Underseas Ballet

Oak Park, Illinois, presented a whimsical pan-
tomime which included dances by snails, lantern
fish, frogs, tadpoles, and seahorses in an “under—
water” pageant. .

Story. The setting was an enchanted garden
under the sea where lived the Queen and the Mer-
maids who had stolen the memory of Robin, a
little boy lost under the seas. Inky, the Octopus,
brought Robin a playmate (Susan) from above
the ocean to console him. Susan persuaded him
to try to escape, and they went in search of
Robin’s memory, for without it he could not re-

member how to swim. They visited the Sea
Witch’s Grotto, and the Sea Witch finally told
them that Robin’s memory was hidden in a shell
guarded by the Shell Maidens. They found it, and
with Inky’s help they escaped from the Queen and
the Mermaids.

Rip Van Winkle

Kenosha, Wisconsin, gave the story of Rip Van
Winkle an interesting twist in its production on
Kenosha playgrounds.

Story. The story of Rip Van Winkle’s un-
fortunate sleep was faithfully portrayed in a play-
pageant. Van Winkle was characterized as a man
who loved to teach children games. When he re-

turned from his adventure, he told the children:

“While I was asleep on the mountain top, I had the
most wonderful dream! I dreamt that in every town,
every hamlet over this land . . . even in the country, play—
grounds would be laid out for the children, and there
would be leaders everywhere to show them how to play
wisely and well. I dreamt in particular of one play-
ground—way out West where the Indians are now roam-
ing—and this is how it looked to me. . . ”

After this speech, the lights on the background
faded, and in the foreground the children from
various playgrounds danced, sang, did stunts, and
played games to demonstrate how the playground
program is carried on in Kenosha.

The Woman in a Shoe

Cleveland, Ohio, used a nursery rhyme to show
community playground activities and the two
speaking characters—the Playground Leader and
the Old Woman Who Lived in a Shoe—told the
story in verse.

Story. The Playground Leader acted as master
of ceremonies and introduced the pageant. He
explained that he happened past the Shoe in which
the Old woman in a Shoe lived. She was dis-
traught because the children were mischievous

and wouldn’t behave. She said:

“They simply won’t behave at all.
They won’t go to bed, nor come when I call.
This happens regularly every day. . . .”

The Leader advised: “My dear lady, what they
need is organized play.”

Then the Leader gathered the children together
for singing games, folk dancing, line games, and
active games. He demonstrated playground activi—
ties by calling out groups of children for tap
dancing, a jug band, and choric speaking. The
Old Woman was delighted with the Playground
Leader's suggestions, and the pageant ended as the
children assembled for a grand finale and closing
song.

PAGEANTRY ON THE PLAYGROUND 77

The Kidnapped Captain

The pageant presented in York, Pennsylvania,
is reminiscent of a Gilbert and Sullivan operetta
told in verse and mixed up with a modern comic
strip character.

Story. Captain Sour Puss of the Ship Smile-
No-More would “have no nonsense.” After he
stopped the crew from dancing and put them to
work, Popeye entered and persuaded the crew to
“kidnap the Captain” and elect him commander
of the ship. The crew clapped the Captain in a
pickle barrél. Popeye suggested that they take “a
trip to the good old U.S.A. just to see how folks
live and play the American way.” He reviewed
the story of “how us Americans learned to get so
much fun out of life.” In this way Indian dances
and games, pioneer dances, a cowboy comedy
rodeo, a parade of 1890 bathing beauties, a cycl-
ing parade, and a mock baseball game were
brought on the stage.

The Captain decided to reform; he rechristened
the ship “Smile-Some-More,” and the pageant
ended with a playground theme song written by a
junior high school boy.

Backstage Notes. The stage represented a sail-
ing vessel, constructed so it could be rocked up
and down by pulling a string. The effect was
bizarre for the part of the ship below Water line
was painted to show strange fish, mermaids, an
octOpus or two, and seaweed.

Claire and the Nutcracker

Oppenheimer Playground in Sunbury, Penn-
sylvania, produced an Unusual pageant written
around the brief story and interesting music of
the Nutcracker Suite by Tchaikovsky.

Story. The sequence was related by a mother
who sat with a group of children at the front of
the stage. To the original story, which involved
only the grandmother, little Claire, and the nut-
cracker who became {a prince, were added many
other characters. Claire, a maid of Brittany, re-
ceived the nutcracker from her grandmother for
a Christmas present. During the night the Mouse
King and his followers battled with the lead
soldiers which had prevented them from raiding
the kitchen. The mice were routed when Claire
threw her slipper at the King. The nutcracker
turned into a prince, for he had been cast under a
spell by the Mouse King, to be released only by
his death. Claire and the Prince went to the king—
dom of Queen Flora (the prince’s mother), but
misfortune overtook them. While the Sugar Plum

Fairy entertained them with a dance, two black
mice kidnapped Claire. The rest of the story con-
cerned the Prince’s search for Claire in the lands
of Siberia, Araby, and China. The pageant con-
cluded with their reunion and the appearance of
Queen Flora, who welcomed Claire into her
kingdom.

Backstage Notes. The shift from narrator to
play was accomplished by a blackout. The stage
was built at one end of a tennis court, with four
platforms arranged at different levels -—two on
each side, forming a wide V with a smaller plat-
form at the apex. By this arrangement, the action
could be shifted rapidly from one part of the stage
to another. A blue cyclorama was used as a back—
drop. The scenery was constructed by both young
and older boys in the wood—working department.
The problem of costumes was easily solved. Some
young teen age girls showed an interest in sew-
ing, so they rented a sewing machine, organized
into groups, and assisted the younger children in
making costumes for the pageant.

The original decision to center a pageant about
the Nutcracker Suite resulted from a desire to
stimulate a greater interest in good music. The
children became so interested in listening to the
music long before actual rehearsal began that it
was necessary to buy a duplicate set of recordings.

A Storytelling Festival in Salt Lake City

Each summer for the past twenty years there
has been a storytelling festival in Salt Lake City,
and it is an annual feature eagerly awaited by
children throughout the city.

The 1939 festival was held the middle of July at
sunset on the large center lawn at Liberty Park,
the city’s largest park. Here is the picture the
visitor sees which is typical of the setting and
action characterizing the festival each year.

Twenty-five storytellers dressed in costume are~
seated around the four sides of the large broad
lawn. Each tells a different type of story. A large
banner made of cambric and painted announces
the type of story to be told. For fairy tales, for
example, there is a picture of a fairy and under-
neath it the word “fairy.”

The children come from all parts of the city
with their parents, and it is a thrilling sight to see
the thousands of people flocking from all direc-
tions through the park to the center lawn. ~On
arrival, the children select the type of story they
wish to hear and join this group, sitting on the

78 PAGEANTRY ON THE PLAYGROUND

lawn in front of the storyteller, listening with rapt
attention to the story.

The festival starts promptly at seven o’clock
and lasts an hour. A bugle announces the begin-
ning of the festival, and every ten minutes the
bugle is blown to tell the listeners that it is time
for them to move to another story group. This
procedure continues during the entire hour.

At eight o’clock a story suitable for adults and
of interest to all is told. Since the entire group
assembles for this, loud speakers are necessary
and a platform high enough to make it possible
for all to see. During the past two years the Rec-
reation Department staged a puppet show instead
of telling adult stories.

A great variety of stories are told-——Indian,
pioneer, western, jungle tales, fairy tales, Arabian
Nights, Peter Rabbit, sea stories, Irish and Chin-
ese folk tales, and many others. The entire gamut
of children’s interests is represented in the stories
selected. The Recreation Department checks on
the stories in order to avoid duplication.

The storytellers are the best available, and
school teachers and playground leaders are invited
to tell the stories. After twenty years along list
of storytellers has been built up. _

No one, of course, can hear all of the stories,
but with such a wide variety told there is some—
thing of interest to every child—to boys, girls,
and older children. Parents, too, seem to get as
much enjoyment from listening to the stories as
they do from watching the pleasure of the children.

The Recreation Department provides the cos-
tumes, the banners, and the stories for the story-
tellers, and is in charge of all of the details of this

delightful festival in which 3,000 children take
part.

Philadelphia’s Festival Projects

For the past four years the Playground and
Recreation Association of Philadelphia has closed
its summer season with a festival depicting the
settlement of Philadelphia, chronologically shown.
Last summer the festival, called “Play Marches
On,” was a review of cultural and athletic recrea-
tion during the hundred year. period. All the cos—
tumes and properties were made by the children
on the individual playgrounds, and an exhibit of
them was held on each playground prior to the
festival. Seven playgrounds and tot lots took part
in the festival.

Before the final presentation in the open air
theater at Pastorious Park on August 23rd each

playground put on its episode for the neighbor-
hood in which it was situated. Because of the fact
that baseball was celebrating its one hundredth
anniversary last year, of particular interest was a
baseball game at Friends Select Playground in
which the players were costumed in the period of
a hundred years ago and the present, the team
from Quaker Playground representing the modern
group and Friends Select Playground, the first
one organized. This episode proved a highly en-
tertaining one and one which newspaper photog-
raphers found of special interest. -

On August 23rd the following program was
given under the direction of Elizabeth H. Hanley:

Part One—Folk Festival

Songs—Dances—Playlets
Procession and Entrance
Salutation Song—God Bless America

1. Ridgeway Playground
Indian Games and Dances; Italian Dance—“Ta-
rantelle”; American Dance-—“Southern Melodies”

2. Ethical Culture Tot Lot
Punch and Judy Skit; Bohemian Dance-—“Stra-

sak”; Slavic Dance; Polish Dance—“Crocovaca”;
Scotch Dance—Highland Fling

3. Blankenburg Tot. Lot
Virginia Reel; Mountain March

4. Quaker- Playground
Three Finnish Dances: “Runtiben,” “Stigare,”
“Schottiche”

5. Kensington Tot Lot
Singing Bee: “Cape Cod Chantey” (then); “Let’s
Sing Again” (now). Dances: Old French Qua-
drille; Morris Jig—“Greensleeves”; American
, Square Dance; Swedish Folk Dance; Windmills;
Les Chanx, French Singing Games

6. Elinore Tot Lot

Irish Dance; German Dance; England Singing
Game; Solo—Polish Polka

7. Friends Select Playground
Danish Dance of Greeting; ,Robin Hood Play

Part Two—Sports and Games
Friends Select Playground

Then: Boxing; Wrestling; Bowling; Baseball
Quaker Playground

Now: Boxing, Wrestling; Baseball
Blankenburg Tot Lot
Now: Boxing

Ethical Culture Tot Lot
Now: Boxing; Wrestling
Part Three—Finale
Elinore Kohn Tot Lot

Play of St. George and the Dragon
Kensington Tot Lot

Pantomime—Pierrette and Pierrot
Recessional March

(Continued on page 122)

A Tribute Through Play

0 NE DAY next summer, July

26th, parents and chil-

ren will gather at the
nation’s playgrounds to pay
tribute to a man who built his
life about one theme: children
must have a place to play. They
honor Joseph Lee, who could
say modestly (even as .he viewed the growth of
playgrounds in the quarter century in which he
spread his philos0phy of play as a leader in the
recreation movement) : “I didn’t start playgrounds.
. . . I was surprised to find that they were not
used, and I worked to secure leadership for them.”
That others did not esteem his service so lightly
was shown during his lifetime and also in the im-
mediate response to the establishment of National
Joseph Lee Day two years ago.

General public recognition of Joseph Lee’s
contribution to American life is increasing stead-
ily The most striking evidence of this is an article
“Godfather of Play” from the Christian Science
Monitor which appeared in Reader’s Digest in
January 1940. The article, excellently written, re-
ceived unusually wide recognition. In addition, a
radio address by Dr. Frank Kingdon, President
of Newark College, had a wide hearing over sta-
tion WOR and the Mutual Broadcasting System.

The celebration of Joseph Lee Day last year
proved one of the great days on the playgrounds.
Observances varied from simple stories to elabor-
ate pageants. Salt Lake City, Utah, conducted
special services on its playgrounds and depicted
the life of Joseph Lee by pageant and play. The
girls of Elmwood Park in East Orange, New
Jersey, presented a pageant of playgrounds as
they used to be and playgrounds as they are to-
day. York, Pennsylvania, had a traveling story-
teller who took a story play to each play area.
Lafayette, Louisiana, concluded the day with a
demonstration of playground activities at the com-
munity center. Mt. Vernon, New York, con-
ducted a play day, and the participating children
came from Yonkers, New Rochelle, White Plains,
Port Chester, and other communities of the county.

One of the most unique Observances was held
by the Union County, New Jersey, Park Com-
mission. During the day there were pageants,
plays, and storytelling based on the life of Joseph

For the past two years the play-
grounds of America have observed
Joseph Lee Day. This year July
26th has been designated as the
day on which the memory of the
I "Godfather of Play". will be hon-

ored in cities large and small.

Lee which were “most impres-
sive and of a real character-
building nature.” As a climax
485 children simultaneously re-
leased colored balloons from the
playgrounds. Each of the 485
balloons carried a return post-
card containing the‘ name of the
child, the object of the celebration, and spaCe for
the name of the tinder, the date, and the location
in which the balloon fell. Seventy-two balloons
were returned to playgrounds, some carrying
friendly messages to the children and the depart-
ment. The longest flight was 71.5 miles.

The Lions Club sponsored the balloon flight and
supplied the gas with which playground workers
filled the balloons. Each child paid three cents for
balloon and postcard.

This simple but striking activity can be dupli-
cated on almost any playground.* Movie news
photographers will probably be interested in tak-
ing pictures of the display, and the balloons them-
selves will carry the message of Joseph Lee Day

' far beyond the city or county limits.

From these scattered examples can be drawn
a picture of the celebration from coast to coast in
hundreds of cities. Letters from recreation ex-
ecutives and their recent annual reports describe in
enthusiastic terms some of the experiences of the
day and their plans for this year’s commemoration.

Los Angeles voted early in the year to observe
Joseph Lee Day and Recreation Week, and plans
are now under way.

Mr. Alfred 0. Anderson, Director of Physical
Education and Recreation in the St. Louis Schools,
states : “For the past two years we have celebrated
Joseph Lee Day on all of our seventy playgrounds
and as far as we are concerned it has become a
fixture. It is the only program during the sum-
mer to which we invite some outstanding speaker
from the community to speak to the group on the
playground. It has meant that the playgrounds
have gotten some line publicity and it has meant
that some of our leading citizens have had a close-
up view of what happens around the playgrounds.
. . . You may count on St. Louis to give extensive

 

* Details are available from the National Reoreation Association
or the Union County, New Jersey, Park Commission.

79

80 A TRIBUTE THROUGH PLAY

cooperation in the observance of Joseph Lee
Day.”

Josephine D. Randall, Superintendent of Rec-
reation in San Francisco, writes of Joseph Lee
Day in that city: “Major activities for the'com-
ing year will center in the stadium adjoining the
recreation building on Treasure Island. Last year
almost one thousand representatives from San
Francisco’s various playgrounds participated in
games and folk dances that Joseph Lee enjoyed.
It was an inspiring and fitting observance. Since
this is the last time we shall have an opportunity
to observe the day on Treasure Island our com-
mittee wishes to duplicate last year’s activities
there.”

Tentative plans for the celebration in San Fran-
cisco also include radio talks over local stations,
memorial windows in department stores, posters
at playgrounds and recreation centers, and indi-
vidual playground Observances. The Recreation
Commission will publish a memorial issue of the
Recreation Bulletin, which has a circulation of over
i,450 copies. Arrangements are being made to
dedicate the Sunday symphony concert scheduled
for July 28th to the memory of Joseph Lee.

Suggestions for Joseph Lee Day

Those communities which have made no definite
plans for the celebration of National Joseph Lee
Day on their playgrounds will find the following
activity suggestions helpful.

Exercises

A community night dedicated to Mr. Lee,
demonstrating activities that he liked—folk
dances, games, and songs. There could be a
brief tribute to him and a talk on the develop—
ment of local recreation.

Exercises at the naming of playgrounds or other
facilities for Mr. Lee.

Special exercises on the playgrounds.

Exhibits

Framed tributes to Mr. Lee.

Material by and about Joseph Lee and com-
munity recreation in libraries before and dur-
ing the day of the celebration.

Model of first playground built in local
community.

Photographs of Mr. Lee displayed in offices,
community centers, and schools.

Festivals

Favorite games, songs, drama, folk dances, and
sports of Mr. Lee. (See helps available.)

Pageants and Plays
Fashion show displaying sports costumes of
earlier days in contrast to those of today.
Pageants depicting steps in the playground
movement or in Mr. Lee’s life. .
Playlets or skits featuring episodes in Mr. Lee’s
life—such as his starting Columbus Avenue
Playground in Boston because he felt that
children were being “arrested for living.”
Story hour on playground or in library devoted
to Joseph Lee.

Playground Activities

Essays about local playground needs.

Essays or poems about Mr. Lee.

Model of first playground of community.

Poster contest on Joseph Lee Day.

Projects, possibly competitions, in painting or
drawing objects or scenes on the playground
or in the center.

Permanent Memorial

The greatest tribute to the father of the play-
ground movement is a permanent memorial
to him in every community—some play or
recreation area named for Joseph Lee. Take
up this suggestion early with the proper
authorities.

Possible dedicatory areas and structures:

Auditoriums, gymnasiums, Park Gardens
etc., in fieldhouses and Playtields
community centers - Playgrounds

Beaches Public Schools

Community Centers Swimming Pools

Fieldhouses Tot-Lots

Golf Courses. Trees

Parks V’Vading Pools
Publicity

Plan the publicity for three periods—the build-
up, the day itself, and the follow—up. Types of
publicity are given below.

IIandbill or mimeographed statement about Joseph
Lee Day for children to take home. In addition
to relating plans for the day, it should explain
who Joseph Lee was and why the day is set
aside in his honor.

Newspaper features, editorials and straight news
stories about the local celebrations, incorporat—
ing data about Mr. Lee and the recreation
movement. The occasion may be used to re-
view the progress of local recreation.

Pictures of commemoratory exercises.

Pictures of laymen who have served the local rec-
reation movement.

(Continued on page 120)

Doing it: the Joseph Lee Way

By SUSAN LEE

N LOOKING OVER the material for
Joseph Lee Day and thinking over
the various plans which are being made, I have
tried to keep in mind what my father would have
liked to see, himself, and what ceremonies seem to
best express him and his philosophy.

I think a simple, spontaneous, local expression
of play, in its various manifestations, is the best
kind of material. That activities and ceremonies
should be real and first—hand. from the point of
view of the children taking part, seems to me'of
first importance, and as a corollary to this, that
each community should work out its own pro-
gram so that it expresses that particular group or
locality, and not somebody else’s conception—a
vital point, both from the point of view of the
creative, or play spirit and that of democracy.
The songs and dances, plays and pageants should
llaver‘joy, simplicity, and beauty for both partici—
pants and onlookers. Anything which is forced, or
artificial, or secondary should be avoided. One of
my father's characteristic sayings, used with an—
other connotation, but equally applicable here, was,
“Don’t tie on the flowers, water the plant.”

As to the more personal and direct memorial
aspect. my father believed in the value of sym-
bolism, of making our national heroes and ideals
visible, although he would have declined the hero
role for himself. But even here, it was the spirit—
ual and true value behind the man or the ideal
which seemed to him important, as witness the
pageants put on by Community Service on Bos—
ton Common, for the Fourth of July which some—
times had no direct connection with the Declara—
tion of Independence. He always went, although
he was never living in town at that time, and in
these pageants took the keenest pleasure and de-
light, rejoicing in the beauty of the setting, with
the lights reflected in the brimming Frog Pond.
Perhaps in this connection it is only fair to state
that I think he believed, also,
in the more direct form of
civic ceremony, provided it
avoided what he called “eagle
screamingf’ and “123% per
cent Americanism.”

My father loved and be—
lieved in parties and “occa—

Miss Lee' a member of the Board of Di-
rectors of the National Recreation As-
sociation. shares with us these memories
of her father in the hope that they
may contribute something of Mr. Lee's
spirit and philosophy to the planning of
the programs ton Joseph Lee Day.

sions.” In our own family we cele-

brated all the festal days and holidays,
or most of them. May Day, important in his
youth, was one of them, when rising at six we
crept downstairs to decorate the family breakfast
table with fruit boughs and early violets, and
hang May-baskets on neighboring door bells. On
VVashington’s birthday we stood in line to shake
hands with the Governor in the Hall of Flags at
the State House. On Decoration Day, as Me-
morial Day was always called in our Boston child-
hood, we watched the G.A.R. decorate the Soldiers’
Monument on the Common (when we were older
following them to the services in Tremont Temple
where the Gettysburg address was read) and laid
our own bunches of buttercups and daisies on the
St. Guaden’s monument of Robert Gould Shawn
leading the First Colored Regiment. Decoration
Day meant much to my father, who remembered
as a Small child having black bows pinned on his
shoulders on the day Lincoln was shot.

One year we want to Concord on the 19th of
April to see “the rude bridge that arched the
fiood” and remember “the shot heard round the
world.” And the red letter day of the year, almost
more exciting than Christmas, was Thanksgiving
Day, when we all gathered, our family clan of
one hundred or more, at the house of a great—aunt,
and old and young played games, the same rollick-
ing, breath—taking games they had played from
time immemorial, when my father was a boy,
climaxed by Going to Jerusalem, a special family
brand of that well—known trip, which consisted in
going all over the house, from attic to cellar, in a
long “snail” led by an old gentleman with white
side—whiskers, and a cane, who had been the
leader for fifty years or so, shrieking as we
whizzed through the long dim corridors, skidded
around the corners, and ran down the steep kit—
chen stairs—«when the line had broken—to catch
up to the line in front, and
finally emerging in the great
hall where we joined hands
and danced around in one
huge circle. In between Whiles,
there were birthdays, and
Sunday picnics, and singing

(Continued on page 121)

81

An "All-Purpose” Dance Costume

HE RECREATION DEPARTMENT of the Mem-
phis Park Commission embraces in its year
round program weekly, or bi-weekly dancing

classes for girls of all ages. These classes are held '

on the playgrounds during the summer season. In
the fall, winter and spring, the classes are held at
the various community centers, and in playground
neighborhoods where no community center is
available, the school facilities are used for after
school recreation.

A feature of these dancing classes is the “all-
purpose” dancing costume, “the chief assets of
which are color and price. Color is placed first,
as the distinct turquoise -b1ue shade not only makes
the costume different from the usual pinks and
blues, and identifies every wearer as a member of
the recreation dancing class, but it blends nicely
with both interior and exterior scenes. The price
of the costume is under fifty cents.

The material is a fast broadcloth, which a
neighborhood store in each community is glad to
handle, obtaining their stock from a Memphis
wholesale house, which, in turn,- makes a special
order of the lovely blue shade of broadcloth for
the Recreation Department. The material retails
for about fifteen cents a yard, and two or three

yards are sufficient for a costume. The pattern is
simple—a fitted bodice with square neck and short
puffed sleeves, a circular skirt eight inches above
the knee, and matching bloomers.

A mimeographed letter, with pictures of the
costume, a sample of the material, and directions
for making, is given each child. In addition a
newspaper pattern is supplied on request. This
pattern, in sizes 6, 8, Io, 12, I4, 16 years, is sent
out from the Recreation Office to each community
center director who issues it to the mother of the
children, either as a loan or as a pattern base from
which the mother cuts her own pattern, or ma—
terial, in the center.

The costume is worn by the children in their
regular afternoon dancing classes. It has the
added advantages of being entirely presentable on
the street or playground, thus enabling the child

to dress at home and avoid making a change in.

the crowded community center dressing rooms. In
addition to improving the appearance of the class,
its psychological value is evident. The children
feel the added prestige of a uniform dancing class
and strive for perfection in their dances and
exercises.

(Continued on page 124)

 

The picture at the
left shows a little
girl of Memphis at-
tired in one of the
"all-purpose" dance
costumes designed
by the Recreation
Department. The
same young lady ap-
pears at the right
dressed in the same
costume. but now a
sash. a cap with sltull
and bonesI and a
pair of boots have
completely changed
the simple costume.
and it is the dashing
ensemble of a pirate
bold! lt mayI with
equal ease. become
an Indian costume.

 

That July Party!

Perhaps you have never thought oi July as

a party month.

IF this is the case, you will

be surprised to learn of its possibilities.

ULY IS A jolly month for par-
J ties with so many possibili-

ties: July Fourth, Dominion
(of Canada) Day, Pied Piper Fun, Scrambled
Birthdays, Nature Lovers’ Fiesta, and Favorite
Games. \Vhy not try a little of each?

Choose the loveliest, shadiest spot you can find
outdoors, and plan for games that will not require
too much effort, for the weather is liable to be
hot. Ask each guest to be ready on call to direct
the playing of a favorite game.

. Some Appropriate Games

When your friends arrive, pass a tray of leaves
cut from green and white paper. Use a real
oak, tulip, or maple leaf for a pattern and num-
ber each color alike from-one to the number of
half your guests. W hen all leaves have been
drawn, ask whites and greens to work in pairs on
contests as you announce them.

Patriotic Contest—The Battle of Yorktown.
Announce that the last battle of the Revolutionary
War is now to be fought. Pass each guest four
paper sacks graduated in size: quarter-pound,
half, one, and two-pound. Call two or three
couples at a time, depending on the size of your
group._ They are to stand in pairs, blow and
burst the sacks in the order of size, beginning with
the smallest. Give them two minutes. All pairs
that succeed in bursting all sacks in order within
time limit may mark score on leaf : A-8. A couple
that blows only five sacks will score A- 5, and so on.

Dominion Day. Announce: “Canada was born
July I, 1867. We are are about to celebrate the
birthday of our great neighbor. Players will please
sit in circle. Green I beside White I, and so on.”
Pass pencils, sheet of paper, and shingle or chip-
board for paper rest. Give time limit for an-

swering the following :

1. Which is older, Canada or the United States?
'2. Exactly how much older?

3. Which is larger, Canada or the United States?
4. What is the name of Canada’s flag?

By LISBETH HIBARGER
Normal, Illinois

5. What is the capital city of the
Dominion?

6. What is the largest city?

7. What large river belongs to both
countries ?

8. \Vhat grain makes Canada famous?

9. What two languages are spoken chiefly?

10. For what clothing product is Canada famous?
Answers for your checking: 1. United States. 2. 90

years, 11 months, 27 days. 3. Canada if we do not count

Alaska. 4. The Union Jack. 5. Ottawa. 6. Montreal.

7. St. Lawrence. 8. Wheat. 9. English and French.
10. Fur.

The score is marked B-IO if all are correct.
The first three to finish are given honor ranks.
For example, if a couple finishes first with eight
right, the score is B-8-I.

Pied Piper Fun. On July 22, I 376, we are told,
the Pied Piper drove all the rats from Hamelin
Town in Brunswick. Then, because the mayor
and the councilmen went back on their promise, he
piped another tune which led all the children but
one little lame boy away beyond the hills where
they were never seen again. You or some friend
who reads well and plays a Hue, harmonica, or
other mouth instrument may read or tell Brown-
ing’s story of the Pied Piper. Then let your
players, hand in hand, line up and follow the piper
who performs funny antics as he leads them
about. All who are caught failing to do as he does
are called and must drop out. Every couple left at
the end of a timed march scores C40. The Piper
should change actions often and make it difficult
to follow. The host may appoint judges and give
them the score for their service. If the Piper can
wear a hat with a tall feather, it will add to the fun.

Poppy Fun. Some say that the poppy is July’s
flower, others, the water lily. Pass papers, and
announce a designated amount of time to see
which pair can write the most words beginning
with pop: as, popeye, population, popular. When
time is up have the longest list read. Give honor
ratings. If Pair No. 3 had longest list, 20 words,
the score is D-20-I. If the next highest is 16, the
score is D-I6-2.

83

84 THAT JULY PARTY!

Scrambled Birthdays. Many famous people were
born in July. The name in the first column is
followed by the reason for fame which is num-
bered in the second column. But the numbers
with careers are badly scrambled. Rembrandt was
not President of United States; he was a Dutch
painter. See who can put the proper career num-
ber in front of the name, as 4a, Rembrandt.

a. Rembrandt . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1. President U. S.

b. Elias Howe . . . . . . . . . . . . 2. Novelist

c. Sir Joshua Reynolds.. . . 3. Folk—song writer
d. David Farragut . . . . . . .. 4. Dutch painter

e. John Paul Jones . . . . . . .. 5. Naturalist

f. John D. Rockefeller. . . . . 6. Roman general

9. Nathaniel Hawthorne... 7. Oil kinrg

h. Isaac Watts . . . . . . . . . . .. 8. Auto manufacturer

1'. Calvin Coolidge . . . . . . .. 9. Hymn writer

1'. Henry Ford . . . . . . . . . ..10. Dutch ruler

[2. Simon Bolivar . . . . . . . ..11. Sea captain

1. Jean Baptist Corot . . . . ..12. Landscape painter

m. Henry David Thoreau...l3. American admiral

1:. Julius Caesar . . . . . . . . l. .14. Inventor, sewing machine
0. Stephen F. Foster . . . . ..15. South American patriot
p. Wilhelmina . . . . . . . . . . . .16. English painter

Answers: 40. 14b. 166. 130'. lle. 71‘. 29. 9h. 11'. 81'. 15k.
12!. SM. 611. 30. 101:.

Score: number right and honor point, as E-I4-I.
means first through with 14 out of 16 right.

Mother Nature Quiz. Read the question. Those
who answer with one correct word score. Pairs
take turns beginning with I and forfeit chance to
try again in case of failing until questions have
gone the rounds. Pair must stand together to
answer while others sit.

1. The flower that gives Opium (P0ppy)
2. A bird that rules and angles (Kingfisher)
3. A berry that names a fowl (Gooseberry)
4. A nut that is found in a dairy (Butternut)
5. A tree good for all kinds of weather (Umbrella)
6. The flower for tea time (Four o’clock)
7. A 'berry that names a race (Blackberry)
8. The tree that is good for chewing (Sweet gum)
9. A tree that is neat and trim (Spruce)
10. A wild flower that names a month and a blossom

a (Mayflower)
11. A flower that names two girls (Rosemary)

12. A water plant that means not sour and a

patriotic emblem (Sweet flag)
13. The mathematical tree (Plane tree)

14. A plant that is part of the eye (Iris)
15. An evergreen that names part of dress and

part of door (Hemlock)
16. A tree that names a state and a beverage

(Kentucky co flee)
(Bittersweet)
( Blue Jay)

17. A vine that contradicts itself
18. A bird that names a color and a letter

19. A flower that is part of a wedding outfit
(Bridal Wreath)

20. An herb that names a small coin and is kingly
(Pennyroyal)
Each correct answer rates two points. A couple
with three right scores F-6. If you prefer, hand
out this list written or typed for all and score as
in B. Now have players add scores, each sign
name, and write his favorite game on leaf under
name. Collect and have committee check while
refreshments are served.

Refreshments

Serve angel food or other white cake with
vanilla ice cream on blue plates with red mints
and loganberry punch. Use patriotic motif in
napkins.

After serving, present favor5°to winners (you
will have fun selecting favors at the Five and
Dime) : 1. Picture showing summer scene or copy
from July artist. 2. Box of firecrackers. 3. Choco-
late rat. 4. Booby prize to lowest score—fancy
balloon to be launched at once. 5. Consolation
prize—candy corn or small mints to all.

Announce leader who directs the favorite game
as time allows. You might close with a song-fest.

Planting a Garden. In another interesting guess-
ing game similar to the Mother Nature Quiz pre-
viously described, the leader prefaces each of the
following with the query: “I planted a . . . . . . . ..
\Vhat came up ?” In each instance the answer
must be the name of a plant or flower.

1. An angry wise man (Sage)
. Cupid’s arrow (Bleeding Heart)
. Days, months, and years (Tyme)

(Star of Bethlehem)
(Bridal Wreath)

2

3

4. Christmas Eve
5. Orange blossoms
6. Contentment (Heart’s Ease) ,
7. Star-Spangled Banner and Union Jack (Flags)
8. Cinderella at midnight (Lady’s Slipper)
9. What a married man never has (Batchelor’s Buttons)
10. Sad beauties (Blue Bells)
1]. Claws and a roar (Tiger Lilies)

12. The flower of Flanders Field (Poppies)
13. Cathedral bells (Canterbury Bells)
14. A box of candy (Candytuft)

15. 'Grief (Weeping Willow)

16. A sermon (Jack in the Pulpit)
17. A Richmond caterpillar (Virginia Creeper)

18. What you find on the top of a mountain
(Snow on the Mountain)

19. A cuff on the ear (Box)

20. A kitten (Pussywillow)

Safety Versus Lawsuits

OVERNMENTS engage
6 in two principal types

of activity: govern-
mental and proprietary.
Under the head of govern-
mental activities are those
functions incident to sov—
s ereignty: making and en-
forcing police regulations;
prevention of crime; preser-
vation of the public health;
prevention of fires; care of
the poor; and education of the young. The build-
ings and instrumentalities necessarily used in con-
nection with the performance of these functions
are likewise classed as governmental.

Proprietary functions may be generally de-
scribed as those of a private or business nature.
An example of proprietary activity is the manu—
facture, distribution, and sale of gas to the public.
Another example is the maintenance of an audi-
torium rented out at a price to private groups for
dances, meetings, and the like.

Recreation, publicly supported, organized, and
directed, is obviously a governmental function.
Its intimate relation to the public health is self-
evident. That it is likewise closely identified with
public moral and political health seems, upon re-
flection, equally clear.

Originally all governmental functions were car-
ried on under the maxim: “The King Can Do No
Wrong.” It was argued that this doctrine was an
essential and integral attribute of sovereignty.
That he should be held answerable to his subjects
for injury suffered by them because of his acts
was considered unthinkable. It was fine if he
governed wisely and well. But if he did not,
nevertheless'it was his “right divine . . . to govern
wrong.”

This doctrine still persists
in the United States, but not
in its full original vigor. De—
fenders of the doctrine in this
country so far as it applied
to municipalities, at least,
evolved the ingenious argu-
ment that government should
not be held liable for injury

Satety has ceased to be a purely
moral obligation and is a legal
duty, breach ot which is attend-
ed by liability For damages. So
will you have safety in your rec-
reation program or lawsuits?

By WAHLFRED J ACOBSON

Because the subject of liability for ac-
cidents is an exceedingly important one
on which comparatively little literature
is available, we are very glad of the
opportunity to publish this paper, which
was presented by Mr. Jacobson. an at-
torney of Long Beach, California. before
a group of California recreation workers.

to its citizens because pay-
ment of damages worked a
misapplication of public
moneys. Answering this, the
proponents of a liberalized
attitude answered that it
was logically unjust to re-
quire the burden of govern—
mental activity causing in—
jury to fall on one person,
or group of persons, instead
of being shared by all ; espe-
cially in those activities such as road laying-out
and road building where great benefit resulted to
the public at large.

The Constitution of the United States made this
answer: “ . private property (shall not) be
taken for public use, without just compensation.”

The Constitution of California followed this
principle, later being amended to provide that com-
pensation should be paid not only for the “taking”
of private property, but also for the “damaging”
of private property for public use.

The next step in this chain of legal develop-
ment soon followed. Judges, law writers, and
lawyers began asking this question : Isn’t it absurd
to provide that the government can’t take or
damage the property of a citizen for public use
without just compensation, but, on the other hand,
can injure his person or destroy his life without
liability to justly compensate him or his heirs
therefor?

By 1911 the question had become important
enough in California to command the attention
and consideration of the legislature. The result
was inevitable: the maxim “The King Can Do
No Wrong” was restricted in its application by
statutory enactment. It would serve no useful

purpose to trace the history of this legislation.
For practical purposes the

year 1923 may be taken as
the starting point in this dis—
cussion and the year in which
safety ceased to be a purely
moral obligation, but became,
as well, a legal one.

The 1923 statute provides
that cities, counties, school

85

86 SAFETY VERSUS LAl/VSUITS

districts, etc., shall be liable in damages for injury
to person or property caused by the dangerous or
defective condition of its public streets, buildings,
property, etc., in those cases where the governing

board or body having authority to remedy such
condition had notice or knowledge thereof and

failed, within a reasonable time after acquiring
such knowledge or receiving such notice, to either
remedy the condition or to take steps to protect

the public from injury therefrom.
This is the basic statute under which most di—

rectors and leaders operate. There are also cer-
tain provisions in the School Code particularly
applicable to teachers, but time will not permit a
discussion of them. Suffice it to say that their
purpose is to make playgrounds and play activities
safe.

You will observe that the liability thus imposed
is a restricted one. But for practical purposes
you would do well not to rely upon the restricted
nature of the liability, but to treat it as unre-
stricted. This, for two reasons: there is a ten-
dency on the part of the legislature to move
toward greater liability; and the attitude of courts
and juries is, generally speaking, to take a broad,
liberal view of the matter—that is to say, the
attitude of most people is that there should be
liability, not that there should not be, and that this
liability should be as broad as individual, private
liability.

One obstacle that must be overcome in safety
work is the lack of knowledge on the part of rec—
reation executives and directors, of the existence
of this statutory liability. Most of them learned
their profession and served their apprenticeship
when there was no liability. They must first ac-
quaint themselves with this altered situation before
any measureable progress can be made in safety
work.

There is a very practical situation in connection
with safety. If recreational functions are not car-
ried on safely, lawsuits will result; if lawsuits
result, money that could, and perhaps would, be
spent for recreation purposes, will be expended in
defense of these suits and in payment of judg-
ments; if the amount of such payments and ex—
penditures becomes large, two results follow: the
impairment of the recreation program, since
money spent in litigation is, of course, not avail—
able for recreation; the possible abolishment of
the recreation program.

To people engaged professionally in this type of
activity it often comes as a great shock that the

general public is not completely convinced of the
necessity of organized public recreation, publicly
financed by tax moneys. A considerable number
of people regard recreation activity as pleasant,
but not necessary—at least not one for which they
would willingly make a real financial sacrifice.
Another grOUp, by no means inconsiderable, feel
that it is a form of modern folly, a device by
means of which many well-intentioned but im-
practical and perhaps lazy people get pleasant jobs
at good salaries. In this group are officials, as well
as private citizens whose voice and vote carry
weight. . . . So long as recreation does not become
burdensome financially their opposition remains
more or less inactive; but let recreation become
burdensome financially and thishopposition will be
galvanized into action. And it will be an intelli-
gent, focused opposition by men who know what
they want and how to get it. '

If you are to do safety work on a scale com—
mensurate with your activities you must have a
definite program. The job can’t be done at odd
times by overworked executives and directors; it
can’t be done grudgingly; it can’t be done sporadi—
cally; it can’t be done by some person unfit to do
anything else and therefore assigned to do safety
work. It’s a big job, an important one. Regard it
otherwise and you invite disaster.

The problem of safety starts with personnel.
Roughly speaking, you have two classes of per—
sonnel: professional and non-professional. The
professional personnel is comprised of executives,
directors, SUpervisors, activity leaders and teach-
ers. The non-professional includes mechanics,
repairmen, janitors, watchmen, sign painters, and
caretakers.

Professional Personnel Must Set Example

Obviously, you must start with the professional
personnel. A janitor is not likely to be impressed
by safety talks given by a careless director. The
professional personnel must provide both the ex—
ample and the leadership in safety. So start at
the top. A considerable acquaintance in the past
five years with recreation executives and directors,
led the writer to evolve this axiom: that recreation
executives and directors are safety-minded in
inverse proportion to their ability as directors.
Why?

In the first place, many of the present—day
executives and directors learned their profession
in the pre—1923 liability period. Hence, their pro-
fessional training did not include a study of the

SAFETY VERSUS LAWSUITS 87

liability situation nor of
safety in its relation to the
liability problem.

Those who learned their
profession subsequent to
1923 and prior to 1932 were duct
likewise not taught liability.
The reason was that the
public as a whole were in-
different. Business was
good; wages were high; the
full force of the business
collapse of October 1929 had not yet been felt.
Consequently the individual citizen bore the ex-
pense of injury to himself or his family out of his
own pocket.

All that is now changed. It is a real tragedy for
the average family to have one of its members
suffer injury on a public recreation ground. Doc—
tor and hospital bills become major financial dis-
asters. So people after 1932 began to inquire of
lawyers whether there was not some redress for
them. And they found out that there was. So
the suits started coming in and tens of thousands
of dollars have since been paid out in claims
settled out of court, attorneys’ fees, court costs and
judgments. Students now qualifying themselves
professionally for public recreation work are
doubtless now being adequately trained in the lia-
bility aspects of their profession. If not, they
should be. And those not in school, must get that
training now. The liability is here; and the public
is aware of it; it is an invitation to disaster to
ignore it. I

Another reason why there is a lack of safety—
mindedness on the part of executors and directors,
is that the more skillful one is in his vocation or
profession, the less he fears injury therefrom.
Skilled steel workers walk with sure tread on nar-
row beams hundreds of feet in the air. To the
unskilled and untrained such conduct would be
suicidal. Directors and leaders of recreation
activity are usually highly skilled; they have the
sureness and confidence that goes with the posses-
sion of such skill; they likewise often fail to ap-
preciate that a public recreation prOgram is for all
the people, not just the trained athlete.

Here is an example: during the recent extremely
hot weather in Los Angeles County when hun-
dreds of people were made ill and many died be-
cause Of the unbearable heat, it was reported that
a certain coach put his men through a hard foot-
ball practice, including scrimmage. If that is so,

"You may rest assured of this: either the
law will make you safe, or you will make
yourself safe. The law will do it by im-
posing greater and greater liability upon
you. with consequent ever-mounting costs.
You can do it yourself by resolving to con-
your activities safely. lf safety is
achieved by law. you face the possibility of
the destruction of your program: if safety
is voluntarily achieved, you disarm your
enemies. convert the indifferent and fortify
your friends in their support of your work."

the question immediately
arises: why would a coach
subject his young charges
to such an ordeal? Well, in
the first place, the superior
physical condition and ma—
turity of the coach might
well cause him to fail to ap-
preciate the inferior physi—
cal condition and immaturity
of his charges. In the second
place, the coach would have
additional protection in his greater maturity. If
he experienced sensations that warned him of im-
pending danger, he would stop——-but would the
young'men? Probably not. They .would feel that
it was not manly to quit, so, Spartan-like, they
they would carry on until permanent injury
resulted.

Suppose for a moment, it was your son who
came home- on a stretcher, his heart permanently
damaged, and perhaps his whole future career
blighted by overexertion in the hot sun? Would
you inquire as to whether or not there was some
redress in law for you and your son? You know
the answer: you most certainly would; and not
because of any belief that your son was inten-
tionally injured. Not at all. But you would feel
that the injury caused by the thoughtlessness of
the activity leader should be compensated, if such
be legally possible. I

Among the professional personnel, try to cre-
ate a safety personnel. In any large group you
are almost sure to find one person who is naturally
safety-minded. If you have such a person in your
organization, relieve him, as much as possible,
from regular recreation activity duties. Create a
safety position for him. You will be better off
with such a man than with some outside safety
man, because he fully understands your problem.
He talks your language and understands and
shares your aims and purposes. An outsider is
apt to require impossible things.

So much for your professional personnel. Later
the non-professional personnel will be briefly dis-
cussed, but at this point the writer believes the
question of equipment should be considered.

After you have appointed your safety man,
give immediate attention to equipment.

Next, Equipment

First, purchase the best equipment obtainable
and then keep it in good working condition. The

38 SAFETY VERSUS LAWSUITS

big manufacturers of playground equipment gen-
erally make good equipment. They have had a
wide experience and have a reputation to main-
tain. If you are involved in a lawsuit they will
come to your aid with expert testimony.

If you build your own equipment, make a care-
ful study of standard equipment, check its results
in actual operation, and then construct it, carefully
and well. Then observe it in actual operation on
your own playgrounds. If any defects show up,
correct them, even to the extent of dismantling
the equipment and redesigning and rebuilding it.
Don’t take anyone’s word that it is suitableu—
actual operation is the best test and it is the one
the courts will be most interested in. You will
find it impossible to convince a court or jury that
a playground device is safe when injuries are
proved to have occurred frequently upon it.

Second, after you have purchased good equip-
ment, check its operation to see if it is really safe.
Be slow to change standard equipment. It is a
good idea to consult the manufacturer before
making a change. Be sure to consult your safety
man. If there is an attorney assigned to advise
you on legal problems, consult him. He will be
liability conscious and may see liability factors
that the rest of you have overlooked.

Sometimes standard equipment can be im-
proved by slight changes. Manufacturers are not
infallible. In Long Beach an open link swing was
greatly improved by welding the links so that
dresses and shorts could not be caught in the open
portion of the links. The' improvement came
about after a little girl broke her arm on one of
these swings and, in the lawsuit which followed,
the Court commented that these open links con-
stituted a defective and dangerous condition, since
they tended to open wider with use.

Long Beach had another favorable experience
along this line. Certain playgrOUnd equipment
had bolts and nuts to hold the seats in place. In
the new equipment heavy coats of paint obscured
the fact that the end of each bolt extended beyond
the nut. Head injuries occurred for which there
seemed to be no adequate explanation. But as the
paint wore off the answer became apparent. The
threaded ends of the bolts extended as much as a
half inch beyond the nut. The nut was a collection
of fiat surfaces with sharp edges. It was these
jagged protuberances which were causing the head
injuries. In addition, as time went on a “ragged”
effect occurred, causing tears in clothing and
hands. The remedy was simple. Mechanics made

a “half-dome” installation so that the nut and
bolt hugged the object closely and the rounding
of the bolt and nut and the cutting off of the pro-
truding bolt made a smooth, snug-fitting job. Torn
clothing and hands were at once eliminated. as
were also lacerated scalps. An occasional bump
on the head still resulted, but this was not due
to the equipment but rather to carelessness of the
child in raising his head against the under side of
the seat.

On the other hand, a change was made in one
city in a playground device which made it dan-
gerous. There was a device known as the “Ocean
Wave.” It can best be described as being a merry-
go-round with an undulating up and down circu-
lar motion. Without consulting the manufacturer,
this device was changed into a standard merry—
go-round. To accomplish this a mechanic put an
iron collar on the upright center pole, fastening_
the same with a bolted protuberance about four
inches thick. A little boy got his leg down between
the center pole and the iron band to which the
seats were attached. When the merry-go-round
came to the protuberance, it kept on going and the
little boy sustained severe fractures of the leg.
The case was settled out of court, but everybody
was the loser: the city, because of the money it
paid, and the boy because he will always have one
leg shorter than the other. So be careful of
changes.

When your equipment problem has been solved
by either buying or making good, safe equipment,
the problem of keeping it that way arises. It can
best be accomplished by an adequate system of
inspection, including prompt repairing or disman-
tling of defective or dangerous equipment.

Your safety man should make a good inspector.
However, the mechanic who makes the repairs
can usually be trained to do this, if the system is
properly designed.

There should be a set routine of inspections.
Certain devices should be inspected weekly, others
bi—weekly, others monthly. A printed inspection
and repair form should be prepared, with each
sheet containing the inspection rules. That serves
a double purpose: first, it is an ever-present re-
minder to the inspector-repairman as to what is
required of him; second, if you get to court you
don’t have to find a rule book and then prove that
the inspector was familiar with it and followed it.

Grade your equipment conditions into' four clas-
sifications: “A”, “B”, “C”, and “D.” Then on

the bottom of each sheet print your definition of

SAFETY VERSUS LA WSUITS

those terms. For example, “A” means “excellent.”
By excellent is meant practically perfect. “B”
means “very good.” By very good is meant in
good workable condition, needs no repair now but
will in a month. “C” means “poor.” By poor is
meant that the equipment is on the borderline—
it needs immediate repair. “D” means “bad.” By
bad is meant that the equipment is unfit for use.
Immobilize it until further orders. By SUCl’l a
system you put responsibility on the inspector and
you know whom to hold at fault if the inspection

has not been properly made.
On this report should be a space for the in-

spector to state what he did and what the condi-
tion was when he finished making the repairs.

Next, repeatedly switch your inspectors, if you
have more than one. Also inaugurate a system of
“spot” check-up inspections. These devices will
prevent “routineness” from creeping into the
work. That is an ever—present danger in inspec—
tion work. Here is an example. In the swing
case referred to previously, the inspector had in-
spected the swing twenty-four hours prior to the
accident and his report showed all links com-
pletely closed. Yet twenty—four hours later the
little girl broke her arm when her shorts caught
in an open link as she prepared to alight from the
standing-up position in the swing. Evidence
showed that the link was only slightly less than
three-eighths of an inch. Did the COUrt believe
the inspector? It did not—holding, and properly
so, that a steel link the thickness of a pencil would
not open that much in twenty-four hours of
ordinary use.

The N on-Professional Personnel

Now, for the non-professional personnel—jani-
tors and caretakers chiefly. Here is a great source
of liability. These workers lack the professional
training your professional
personnel has had; like-
wise they lack interest in
the work being carried
on by the professional-
personnel. Their work is
usually monotonous and
there is a tendency for
them to become intro-
verts. The job, unfor-
tunately, attracts intro-
verts and the work, so
often done alone, in-
creases the natural ten—

To provide protection for young men engaged in
vigorous athletic schedules on the Los Angeles
playgrounds. a plan for accident insurance has
been worked out by the Playground and Recrea-
tion Department which gives protection for the
duration of the athletic season. In event of an
injury incurred while participating in regu-
Iarly organized schedules of competition. hos-
pitalization and medical service are provided.
The cost of this protection is $|.25 for most
sports' and $2.50 for football and baseball.
The Municipal Athletic Federation administers
the plan. It is thought that eventually more
than l5.000 young men will share in the plan.

89

dency to introversion. That means that your pro-
fessional personnel must watch them closely and
insist upon safety.

Janitors and caretakers often feel that their
work is unappreciated. One remedy for that is to
point out the many ways in which their work is
important. When they leave rakes on the ground
with the tines up, point out to them that someone
may step on the tines, receiving a cut on the foot,
and a head injury from the slamming of the rake
handle.

\Nhen they clean toilets they can be reminded
that a wet soapy Floor is dangerous. That it is
important can be shown them by collecting sta—
tistics as to accidents that have occurred by rea—
son thereof. In one year, one city had claims and
damage suits totalling some fifty thousand dollars
due to falls on wet, slippery toilet floors. You
will usually obtain a most gratifying response
from those employees once they feel that their
work is appreciated and that they occupy a vital
part inthe safety program of your department.

The trash burning problem is in their hands.
They must not leave burning trash until it is dead,
unless the trash is so completely insulated from
the playground area that it is well-nigh impossible
for anyone to get hurt. And that condition rarely
obtains. In Los Angeles County a few years ago
a little girls dress caught fire from a “dead trash
fire,” severely injuring her, and causing heavy
damages to be awarded against the school dis-
trict. On appeal the Court said that it required
no argument to show that the burning of trash
while little children were playing in the vicinity
was of itself and without any further evidence,
negligence.

Then there is the upkeep of playgrounds. A
tennis court should be smooth, or play forbidden
thereon. A tennis player is not obliged to look at

the court constantly to

see that chuck holes and
obstructions do not trip
him and break his leg.
Many times a caretaker
will keep the court in
good shape, but disre-
gard the adjacent areas.
A tennis player running
to the service line to re-
turn a ball certainly does
not go into a no—man’s-
land of danger when he
does that. So watch the

90 SAFETY VERSUS LA WSUITS

outside areas into which play-
ers can reasonably be ex-
pected to go in playing the
game.

Then there are grass areas.
such as the outfield of a soft-
ball or baseball diamond. To
keep the grass watered is a
big job. To facilitate doing
this job janitors and caretakers frequently get a
city mechanic to install sprinkler pipe connections.
These are submerged in cup-like depressions. The
difficulty is that a player running to field a ball
steps into the cup, is thrown to the ground, and
breaks his leg. Yet the problem is simple of solu-
tion. The cup should be completely closed when
the sprinkler is not in use. Such an installation
will not increase the cost of the plumbing very
much and will reduce, if not entirely eliminate,

accidents of this type.
Now as to playground areas in which janitors

and caretakers are not primarily in charge.

Additional Sources of Liability

Swimming pools are a source of liability. In
one California city there was a lake in a park used
for swimming. The banks of this lake were steep
and slippery, the water varying in depth from six
to fifteen feet. The approach to the banks was
smooth and grassy. A little boy seven years old
was found at the bottom of the lake in fourteen
feet of water. There were no barriers or fences
to keep him out of the water. The Court took
the view that the lake was an invitation to the boy
—that he wasn’t expected to know its depth or
that the banks were steep and slippery and that if
he fell in there wasn’t any human way in which
he could pull himself out. The Court further
said that this condition was totally unnecessary,
was very careless, and there was no justification
for its existence.

Then there is the situation of a playground
safe enough in itself, but made unsafe by neglect-
ful supervision. The trash burning incident has
been adverted to. Recently a case arose where the
playground teacher permitted boys to ride bicycles
where little children were playing. One day a
bicycle struck a little girl and broke her leg. A
judgment was given to the little girl for damages
and an appeal taken. The judgment was affirmed.
To the contention of the school district that the
child didn’t have to play there, the Court answered
that the child had a right to play there; that that

"Of course no safety program can be
devised that will produce an accident-
tree playground. But a good safety pro-
gram will reduce accidents to a minimum
and should entirely eliminate those caus-
ed loy any defective or dangerous equip-
mentI propertyl playgrounds and the
like. And this much you must achieve!‘'

was what the playground was
for, not for bicycle riding;
that if the person in charge
saw fit to allow such a dan-
gerous situation to develop,
then the district would have
to answer in damages for
such carelessness. So it is
clear that a playground safe
in itself can become dangerous and unsafe by
reason of permitting it to be improperly used.
Another source of liability is that caused by
other departments of the city. Repairs must fre-
quently be made by a department other than your
own. These employees sometimes act as though
another department of the city government is a
foreign country, with whose problem they have no
concern. Therefore you must watch these people
closely and, if you find unsafe practices being fol-
lowed, make a written protest to the executive
head of the city, and, in addition, point out to the
foreman or other person in charge, why you feel
that the work is being done in an unsafe manner.

For example, suppose repairs or improvements
are being constructed which require the use of an
extremely hot viscous liquid. If the work is being
done in areas over which you have jurisdiction,
check the work to see what protection is being
given children. Is the container put as far as pos-
sible out of the reach of small children? Do the
workmen keep a sharp outlook for children who
may be attracted to the container and its contents?
\Nhen the day’s work is done, is there a securely
fastened lid on the container? Is there a night
watchman on the job? Is the container so barri-
caded that it would be difficult for any but a most
persistent child to get to it?

Now the men who work with these materials
will tell you that your insistence on safety hampers
them in their work; they will tell you it is “im-
practical” which is the historic retort of non-pro-
fessional people to professional people. It is sup-
posed to be a most devastating argument. Usually
it has not real meaning other than as a confession
of inability to think in other than set patterns.
Such a situation occurred in Long Beach. The
writer had repeatedly urged that the hot stuff
containers be provided with hinged covers with
padlocking arrangements on them so that, when
not in use, the contents could be reached only by
breaking the lock and prying open the lid. Assur-
ance was solemnly given the writer that such an
arrangement was “impractical,” “wouldn’t work,”

SAFETY VERSUS LAWSUITS 91

and “would raise the cost of the work to such
heights that a city would be unable to operate.”

One day a boy eleven years old stuck his right
hand in the uncovered, or loosely board-covered
(there was a conHict of evidence on this point)
container. He did this after work for the day had
ceased. Terrible burns resulted and a permanent
injury in the form of a “talon” hand (because of
its resemblance to ,a bird’s__claw) resulted. This
boy was intending to be a surgeon and his educa-
tion for that profession had been assured by a
wealthy lady who had taken a liking to him. He
will never be a surgeon, thanks to his injury. Nor
will he ever be able to follow any other occupa-
tion requiring manual skill and dexterity.

What did the Court think of this situation? It
is a pity the thorough tongue-lashing given the
city for its negligence and disregard of duty to
the public cannot. be printed and distributed to
every city employee in the state. The Court in-
cluded in its analysis of the situation a statement
that the very least that should have been done was
to put permanent hinged and padlocked covers on
the containers. Result: a hinged and padlocked
cover was designed and installed on all hot-stuff
containers. Inquiry as to the effect of the same
upon the efficiency of operations elicited the reply
that no appreciable lessening of efficiency could

be observed.
So, where repairs are made, insist that' safety

rules and practices be observed. If you cannot
compel your suggestions to be followed, protect
yourself by an immediate written report to the
executive head of the city or district by whom
you are employed. If it is very urgent, telephone
your report and follow it immediately with a
written one. Action such as this will save you
much trouble and grief, will bring safety to the
attention of the executive head of the city, and,
best of all, will save the lives and careers of some
fine boys and girls. '

Signs Are Importaht!

Then there is the matter of signs. When the
making and installing of signs is suggested, two
stock suggestions for their wording are invariably
made: (1) “NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ACCIDENTS”;
(2) “USE AT YOUR OWN RISK.”

Of course such signs are absurd. They are
valueless insofar as children under the age of
twelve are concerned. Again, they do not ac—
curater state the law and consequently breed con-
tempt and disregard for all signs. The law defines

your duty and your liability. How absurd it
would be if you could escape your legal duty by a
sign saying, in effect, that you choose not to be
thus obligated!

Your signs should be worded with great care
so that they are easily understood. They should
be placed where they will be seen. Where an area
is dangerous to small children it should, if possi-
ble, be made inaccessible to them. The signs should
be directed to the parents and guardians of chil-
dren, warning them of the dangerous nature of
the area, insofar as its use by small children is
concerned. And. finally, close watch of the area
should be maintained by the recreation personnel.

As to children old enough to understand, and
as to adults, signs should be. erected apprising
them as to what may not de done with safety.
That is to say, an area may be perfectly safe
when used one way and very dangerous when
used another.

For example, there was an epidemic of broken
necks and injured backs in Alamitos Bay in Long
Beach. It was found that they were caused by
persons diving from and into improper areas. One
type of improper area was that in which the
water was of insufficient depth for diving. An—
other type of area was that in which the depth
was proper, but bathers and swimmers in such
area had no reason to believe that there would be
diving therein. For example, divers would climb
upon the top of the fence or rail of a walk leading
to a diving platform and dive off. The swimmers
in the area adjacent to such walk had no reason
to expect divers to descend upon them, with the
result that collisions occurred and injuries re-
sulted. A few signs, plus a little enforcement of
their contents, soon ended all this. These signs
called attention to the fact that diving was dan-
gerous because of insufficient water depth. They
pointed out that diving could be done only from
diving platforms.

Some storm drains in Long Beach discharge in
the Pacific Ocean and in Alamitos Bay. At high
tide they are frequently covered by high water.
Swimmers collided with them, sustaining severe
injuries. A suggestion that signs be erected visi-
ble. above high tide was met with the answer that
it was “impractical,” that you couldn’t put up a
sign that would stay in place 'any appreciable
length of time. Then one day a bad accident oc-
curred—a young lady losing several teeth and
suffering considerable facial disfigurement. It was

(Continued on page 122)

 

NCE A YEAR, at Christodora House all ac—
O tivities and all departments combine to
stage our “greatest show on earth.” This
year our amateur cir‘cus was held several weeks
prior to Barnum and Bailey’s Madison Square
Garden Circus, whose posters helped make our
neighborhood even more “circus conscious.” The
circus was a great success, attracting capacity
crowds at all three performances and leaving a
feeling of satisfaction among spectators and per-
formers alike. .
It was an excellent opportunity for our staff to
establish closer relationships with our members,
their parents, the neighborhood; to make it pos—
sible for many boys and girls to enjoy a variety of
experiences, and develop and correlate a multi—
tude of skills. Seventy-five stage performers and
175 workers of one type or another all united to
raise the roof of the big top!
Our circus is a combination event consisting of
a carnival and a main show. The carnival is set
up in the gymnasium and adjoining games room,
and is made up of a variety of sideshows, booths
and games of skill. The main show was held in
our auditorium, which has a well-equipped stage.
Admission to children was two cents, to older
persons, ten cents. This included the main show,
refreshments and ten $500 bills to be used in lieu
of currency. High scores at the booths were given
coupons which could be redeemed for inexpensive
articles. Cost of playing at each booth was $500,
and money flowed freely.
Refreshments available
were peanuts, popcorn and
pink lemonade. The over-
whelming activity at this

92

Mr. Mandel. who has supplied us with
this interesting and practical material.
is Director of Physical Education at
Christodora House in New York City.

As everyone will admit. a real
circus must have an elephant.
And so, because of the uni-
versal appeal of this animal,
it was the "theme song" of all
of the publicity for the circus
at Christodora House. It is
hoped that the details of the
circus as given in this article
will be helpful to recreation
groups planning similar events
for this summer's program.

scene necessitated a memo for next year; more
space—lots of it!

The circus gave three performances in two suc-
cessive days, each performance being prefaced by
the “carnival.” Approximate running time—car—
nival, two hours; “Great Show,” two hours.
Throughout the carnival and show, a background
of appropriate recorded music was maintained to
insure the proper Carnival atmosphere.

Preliminary Preparations

Five weeks before the circus, objectives, poli—
cies and procedures were thoroughly discussed
against the background of our 1939 circus. Staff
members then selected a particular committee
responsibility and proceeded to organize working
bodies which acted as their own “nuclear groups,”
often enlarged upon through voluntary and in—
vited cooperation.

The groups included the following: costumes;
art and painting; construction (wood); music;
refreshments; clay ; publicity; photography; make—
up and dressing rooms; main show.

The director of the circus acted as coordinator
of all groups, handled all correspondence and set
all procedures. To avoid conflict with regular
activities, and to schedule places and times with
the performers, a list of all available rehearsal
space was charted and reserved—an area compris—
ing twelve rooms and three large halls. A call for
actors, dancers, tumblers, artists, and technicians,
was posted, and the circus
began rolling along!

Most of the costumes
needed were made by the
costume committee (sewing

HIST, THE BIG TOP! 93

class) at low cost. Clown suits were made of un-
bleached muslin and spots were put on by stencil-
ing. Indian dresses and loin cloths were made
and decorated in a similar manner. Skeleton out-
fits were made of white cloth bones on black suits.
Old vests were recovered with gay colored ma-
terials and used by the barkers. A group of girls
age eight to ten years old made all the buttons
for costumes and strings of beads for the Indians.
The entire cost of ten clown suits, eight Indian
costumes, six skeleton suits, ten toy soldier suits,
and twenty vests was $18.00.

The Groups Go into Action

The younger art groups, made up of eight to
twelve year old children, painted about a hundred
clown faces and animals as decorations, while the
older group painted posters, scenery, stage proper-
ties and accessories, designed publicity bulletins,
and tickets, and in general handled hundreds of
items. A member of this group prepared and
operated the shadowgraph for the silhouette por-

trait booth.

The construction group (woodwork class) made
stage sets and props, game material for the car-
nival, Indian rattles, entrance turnstiles, and a
great number of sundries.

The music group trudged many a street in
search of suitable recordings for our needs; nine
records were used in the stage show and ten for
the background music. A stage sound booth was
constructed and operated with its horns, whistles,
drums, crashes, xylophone, cymbals, tom-toms,
piano, recording ouht, and microphone. A har-
monica act was another contribution of this group.
During the entire four hours of the carnival and
show, there was no period of more than ten min-
utes without music in some form or another.

The refreshments committee (cooking class)
made and served lemonade and popcorn balls to
over 1,200 people.

“Jeepers Creepers” and “Donald Duck,” two
star performers, owe their existence to the clay
group, who created them out of newspapers, glue,
clay and paint.

The photography group took many pictures of
all phases of the circus and these were later made
available to our members. A booth operated by
this group the only one that required real cur-
rency) proved very popular. High organization
was needed here for the pictUres were taken,
developed, and delivered at the same performance.

The make-up group was headed by a competent
make-up artist who, in preparation for the circus,
instructed and advised his various assistants.
Each performer’s make-up was created to suit his
individual character and costume, and designs of
each were made and placed on the walls of the
make-up' room for reference. Each performer
was given a large box and a dressing room as-
signment for costumes and accessories, and the
person in charge of the rooms required that each
item be properly replaced after each performance.
This procedure was a result of the 1939 circus
when pre-performance time was a constant game
of “who’s got my costume?” This facilitated a.
difficult schedule with so many of our perform-
ers coming up for their make-up almost immedi-
ately before their stage entrance.

The Carnival

Each club in the house accepted a booth and
chose some activity as the atraction. To avoid
duplication, the selection of booths was cleared
through the chairman of this committee. The re-
sponsibility for setting up and maintaining the
booths was entirely the club’s. For posters, game
materials and other necessities, the clubs went to
the appropriate departments. Each booth was pro-
vided with necessary construction material, with
derbies, vests, megaphones and canes. The col-
ored derbies and canes were purchased at a novelty
house at seven cents each; the vests and mega—
phones were our own handiwork. These acces-
sories were most effective in accelerating our
“barkers” to extreme vocal activity! The booths
vied with each other for customers, and dis—
tributed prize coupons to the more skillful play—
ers. A section presided over by a staff member
was set aside for a display of the prizes.

A general decorating committee put up clown
faces, colored lights and dags, balloons, bunting,
crepe paper, and defined the area for each booth.
Recordings were played throughout the carnival.
Appropriate popular numbers were: Come to the
Fair; Music Goes Round; Merry-Go-Round
Broke Down; Peanut Vendor; Popcorn Man;
“Schnickelfritz” records.

Among the booths were the following: dart
throwing; shooting gallery (archery, rifle, pistol) ;
weight guessing; nail driving; odditorium; ring
toss; candle bowling (blowing); Japanese balls;
fortune telling; shadowgraph ; and photography.

94 HIST, THE BIG TOP!

The Big Show

The word “circus” follows its Latin derivative
very closely, allowing any variety of activity, and
consequently our show was in a constant state of
fermentation (of type as well as quality). MOSt
of the acts called for creativeness and ingenuity
on the part of performers as well as director. Not
one of our many acts was completely created at
the first rehearsal. The finished act was the result
of combined thinking and experimenting on the
part of performer and director, in many cases, 'of

performers alone.
Our main show revolved around a framework

of ten specialty acts freely interspersed with clown
numbers. Barnum said “clowns are the pegs on
which to hang a circus.” Any circus director will
readily appreciate this. A versatile clown is a
great asset, when a circus program confronts
stage waits or other unforeseen difficulties which
will crop up willy—nilly! As far as possible, circus
tradition was followed. The clowns confined
themselves to pantomime only, the curtain clos-
ings were reduced to the lowest possible number,
and the traditional extravagant circus phraseology
was very much in evidence.

The main acts included: tumblers, tap dancers,
Indians, folk dancers, sharpshooter, tight rope
walker, Jeepers Creepers, magician, March of
Toys, and Dance of Death.

The tumblers opened the show with a bang by
diving through drum heads adorned with clown
faces. The act was composed of a continuity of
stunts with perpetual action. The tumblers were
dressed in clown suits and this more than com-
pensated for any lack of form or skill. A very
small boy was part of'the act and his antics kept
the audience roaring. ‘

Pyramid building was done smartly and with
snap to the beat of a tom-tom. The act ended with
a mock “tank” tight in which Hashing lights and
sound effects were used. The “tank” was made
up of one boy on his knees and two boys inter—
locked, rolling backward and forward. This act
started the show off on the right foot by its
quick tempo.

The tap dancers acted as prologues to several
of the larger acts. A military tap opened the
March of the Toys and an eccentric tap started
the Dance of Death. An attempt was made to in-
clude popular music from recent movies in the
show hence March of the Toys from the Great
Victor Herbert, and a soft shoe tap dance to
Swanee River from the picture of the same name.

The Indian act was executed by twelve to four—
teen year old boys and girls, who did the “Corn
Dance,” accompanying it with singing and tom-
toms. The feature of the act was the Hopi Hoop
Dance by a girl fourteen years old. This is very
spectacular and demands great dexterity and
agility in twisting in and out of the hoops. It was
done around a tire on the stage.

The sharpshooter was, of course, a farcical mis-
statement of the real thing, consisting of a series
of mUSical, blindfolded, and slow motion shots.
The “tight rope” was a “two by four” beam cov-
ered with cloth., It looked quite realistic when the
“artiste’s” weight was on it. Before the end of
the show the dancing horse and all the clowns
were walking the “tight rope.” Jeepers Creepers
was our educated horse who amazed the audience
with his intelligence. Pockets were sewn into the
sides of the body so that a variety of articles could
be stored and displayed. The high spot of the‘ act
was the jitterbug number danced by the two boys
in the horse. The magician was one of our mem—
bers who practiced sleight of hand as a hobby.
Some simple chemical formulas were used for
magical color changes, and these were a great
delight. The March of Toys was a precision dance
done by the youngers boys and girls in appropriate
dress. '

The inale

Sticking close to traditional lines, a finale-—
super—production number involving a co-ed group
—was vitally essential. The theme of this year’s
circus being that of “spooks,” Saint Saens “Danse
Macabre,” with all its imaginative possibilities,
readily came to mind. This tone poem, so rich in
pictorial detail, suggested a scene in a graveyard
with an attendant plot. The skeleton of the num-
ber was worked out in an unorthodox type of in-
terpretative dance technique. The company was
then assembled, made familiar with the music and
the story, and after close collaboration of director
and performers, evolved into a Macabre Dance
Drama—dependent for its effectiveness not at all
on the usual dance standard—hbut completely a
web design of rhythm, drama, and most of all,
free range of imagination.

Playing to a diversity of audience age presented
a ticklish problem. For instance the Danse Ma-
cabre would hardly serve as a suitable number for
the children’s audience. We therefore substituted
something lighter, The March of the Toys. This,

( Continued on page 126)

. "Last Summer on Our Playgrounds.

I,

If you listen, you will hear this phrase repeated many times in
cities where enthusiastic playground workers are exchanging experi.
ences and planning for the 1940 summer playground program on the
basis of activities which proved particularly successful last sum-
mer. W'e wish we could pass on to you all of the interesting ideas
which were put into operation in many cities. Here are just a few.

A Playground Goes to the Fair

By ROBERT L. HORNEY
Director of Recreation
Davenport' Iowa. Park Board

WORLD’S FAIR in all its panoply and glory
seemed a “natural” for the 1939 Davenport,

Iowa, playground review, and doubtless the
same idea was used by other cities. For mid-west-
erners far from New York, magazines, papers
and posters evoked great interest in the Fair.

Our review was held on the night of August
4th at the LeClaire Park Band Shell on the banks
of the Mississippi before an estimated crowd of
5,000 persons, a larger attendance than at any
previous park program in Davenport. More than
250 children appeared in the review and a local
radio announcer acted as narrator. Massive gates,
the gates to the “World of Tomorrow,” were con-
structed on the stage of the band shell. As the
lights went up the fanfare of trumpeters an-
nounced the opening of the children’s own crea-
tion of “Democracity’s Model Playground.” Back
of the uproar and fireworks at the New York
World’s Fair is a sincere attempt to portray the
future by showing the accomplishments of sci-
ence, industry and art, and our “Democracity”
was derived from the Perisphere display showing
the metropolis of tomorrow.

Part One of our review was a pint—size replica
of the playgrounds of to—
morrow, including demon-
strations of physical, dra-
matic, rhythmic, musical,
creative and intellectural
- activities. As the lights
dimmed the'narrator com-
mented:

“Play is a life interest with

Last summer Davenport adapted tot the clos-
ing event of its playground season a number
of ideas from the World's Fair. An outline
of the plan is given here as a suggestion
for a playground. community center or club
program. Mr. Horney states that such a pro-
gram may be as simple or elaborate as the

occasion demands, depending on the origi-
nality used in costuming, lighting and music.

its primary application in youth but with an important
application through life. Joy in childhood lays a basis
for life. For unless youth he golden, old age is dross.”

Part Two opened the gate on_ Recital Hall,
bringing the joys of music and the theater. Scene
One presented a chorus of forty men and women
singing melodies from familiar light operas. Sev-
eral popular soloists were featured. Scene Two
revealed the Children’s Little Theater group in
skits from “The Fairy in the Witches’ Dell.” The
final scene of this act presented an adult dance
group in “Impressions of the Modern Dance.”
The lighting effects and the scarlet costumes of
the dancers, coupled with the music of Sebelius,
made this scene one of the highlights of the review.

“Laff Land,” with the “stupendous, collossal
and terrific” attractions of the midway, was the
title of Part Three. Ma, Pa, Gramp, Aunt Minnie
and the City Slicker, amid scores of other comic
characters swarming across the midway, gaped at
the miracles of the side shows and were enthralled
with the “windy spieling” of the barker. Then
followed the Laff Land entertainment—a troup of
twenty acrobats who excited bursts of applause
for the difficult feats they had practiced all sum-
mer on the playground, a human puppet show
originated and produced by the children, comic

tight rope walkers, and tap dancers performing
on roller skates.

We called the fourth part of our review the
“Parade Ground of the Nations,” selecting, from
more than sixty nations represented at the World’s
Fair, folk dances from
England, Sweden, Russia,
Ireland, Switzerland, Scot-
land and Denmark. The
gaiety and charm of each
dance was accentuated by
bright paper costumes.
many of them made by
the playground children in

95

96 “LAST SUMMER ON OUR PLA YGROUNDS.”’

their crafts classes. As a prelude to the finale
(Part Five), from back stage drifted the soft
strains of children’s voices singing “God Bless
America.” The narrator commented:

“So the world of tomorrow brings the citizens of to-’

morrow. Yet in its respective analysis, the Fair is a
great peace time project devoted to the cause of peace
and good will to men. These children, representing the
people of the nations, are interested in life, the world.
themselves and in making a better world . . . and in
working toward a vision of what the world of tomorrow
can mean to everyone.”

The gates opened on the final scene and all the
performers reappeared, this time divided into
groups representing their respective playgrounds.
Each group was identified by different colored
caps and shoulder capes. When the stage was
filled the audience arose, joining with the children
in singing the national anthem.

Summer Opera in Springfield

HE PRODUCTION of Victor Herbert’s “Sweet—-

hearts” at the Illinois State Fair Grounds last
summer marked another step toward the civic
ambition of Springfield—the establishment of a
summer opera season similar to that of the neigh-
boring city of St. Louis. “Sweethearts” was
the second in the annual series of summer
operas.

The operas are the fulfillment of the hope
of the director, E. Carl Lundgren, that Spring—-
field will provide a cultural outlet in music
for talented young people. As musical director
of the high school, he is unwilling to have com-
mencement bring a forced halt to the enjoy-
ment of music as an avocation. An outgrowth
of several attempts to maintain an “alumni
choir,” the present municipal choir which pro—-
duced the operetta is sponsored by the Play-
ground and Recreation Commission of the city,
without whose help the work of the chorus
and the production of “Sweethearts” would
have been impossible. The ninety-one mem-
bers of the choral group spend an evening
each week in practice and attend daily re—
hearsals for five weeks preceding a production.

The presentation of “Sweethearts” has
earned a permanent niche in the cultural his—-
tory of Springfield, aside from its achieve-
ment of furnishing the thousand citizens who
attended each of the two nights of the operetta

an Opportunity to enjoy an opera at little more
than the cost of a movie ticket.

The director believes that the Operas produced
at the dedication of Lake Springfield, and the
Victor Herbert production, prove that an abund~
ance of first class musical talent is available for
a more ambitious program of summer opera.

History Comes Alive

By RUSSELL J. FOVAL
Superintendent of Recreation
Alton. Illinois

l-AST JUNE, when we were completing plans for
special events during the summer playground
season we asked the question: “What can we
plan which has never been tried before?” “What
type of event will carry over into the child’s ex-
periences even after the playgrounds are closed?”

Someone made the suggestion: “Why not have
an ‘Alton Day’ which would deal with the history
of our community?” We discussed it, and decided
that it met our first requirement, for nothing of
the sort had been tried be fore. In regard to the sec-
ond requirement, we felt that in preparing for the
day we could instill in young minds an
interest in the history and progress of
their own city. We talked with John

Summer opera is 0
which the Springtie
Commission provi:

 

“LAST SUMMER ON OUR PLAYGROUNDS!”

I). McAdams, business Inana-
ger of the Alton Evening
Telegraph and a recognized
authority on the early history
of Alton and Indian lore of
Illinois. He heartily agreed
that our idea was excellent
if it could be carried out. We replied that it could
be done, if he would help on the historical infor-
mation. He consented to help, joined the play-
ground staff at the weekly meeting and discussed
what he considered some of the outstanding “high-
lights in the history of Alton.” Among these were
two great Indian legends: “Lovers’ Leap” and the
“Piasa Bird,” a replica of which is painted on a
bluff overlooking the Mississippi. One is a charm—
ing Indian love story, and the other a legend of
bravery.

Other subjects Mr. McAdams discussed were:
"The Old Penitentiary”; Lovejoy, the young man
who heeded the call to “Go W'est”; Lovejoy’s
printing press and his monument, now both pre—
served by the city; the Lincoln—Douglas debate,
and the marker which stands on the square in
Alton; the Lincoln-Shields episode;
the Illinois Glass Company, Alton’s
oldest manufactory and the largest of

ce 55.

the

after

 

fthe many activities
ound and Recreation
city-wide program

 

Courtesy Springfield, Illinois, Playground and Recreation Commission

As a special event on the playgrounds
of Alton, "Alton Day"
It was novel and different from
any previous program. and it carried
over in the children's memory long
celebration

97

its kind in the world; the
Confederate Soliders’ Ceme-
tery; and the Government
Dam, Number 26, across the
Mississippi at Alton.

In addition to relating these
interesting facts, Mr. Mc-
Adams typed a short account of each story which
we made into a booklet to be distributed to every
playground director for reference. By this time

the directors were thoroughly enthusiastic over
the idea.

was a great suc-

had passed.

At each playground a storyteller told these
legends and tales to the children during the story
period. We named the following week “Excur-
sion W eek.” Through the cooperation of the Citi-
zens Coach Company we chartered buses “and
took the playground children on a two and a half
hour tour of the points of historical interest. In
all. a total of nine bus loads or 450 children made
the pilgrimage at the low rate of six cents per
child. At each place playground directors acted
as guides. Using the information supplied by Mr.
McAdams they gave brief historical sketches and
told interesting facts to the children.

At the next staff meeting, final plans were com-
pleted for “Alton Day,” to be celebrated on
August 11th. A special “Parent Night” was
scheduled on the same date, so that by story,
song, handcraft or skit, the children might
impart to parents and visitors the stories they
had learned about their own city.

Then came “Alton Day”! The history of
Alton was interpreted in almost as many ways
as there are playgrounds in the city—by his-
torical exhibits, displays of handcraft depict-
ing early life in Alton, Indian encampments,
industrial exhibits, and other stunts and dis—
plays. These exhibits were displayed during
the day, but the special programs which were
to have been held in the evening at each play-
ground had to be called off because of rain.

Outstanding Was the display from the
Horace Mann playground—an Indian tepee
with pottery made by the children. Under
supervision of a director, Indian costumes
were designed and decorated by several girls.
Hellrung playgrounders built an encampment
of six tepees and staged skits based on Indian
stories for visitors throughout the day. A
group of Indian braves presented the green
corn ceremonial dance. Washington children
had constructed a model of early Alton as it

98 “LAST SUMMER ON OUR PLAYGROUNDS!”

appeared from the river. The realistic set was

made of earth and rock and peopled with minia-
ture Indians and pioneers. Other handcraft work,
including bead work and portraits of the Piasa
Bird, was exhibited.

\Nater Tower displayed a collection of Alton
relics. Northside boasted a comprehensive history
of Alton contained in its shoe box exhibit. Using
firebrick and cardboard for materials and shoe
boxes as display windows, the children had re—
constructed historical scenes and places. In the
exhibit were brief essays of explanation and
poems written by the children. Milton children
had prepared an industrial exhibit with samples

from nearly every industry in the city.

Tell More Myths and Legends

By FREDERICK WAHL
San Francisco' California

ONTRARY To THE BELIEF that legends are con-
C stantly passed on by word of mouth from

mother to child, the modern age seems to be
characterized by the discontinuance of such a
practice. Not realizing this fact, we have been
prone to believe that the average child has a gen-
eral knowledge of mythology.

Having conducted a few summers of story
hours on San Francisco playgrounds with “Polly

of the Playgrounds” (Mrs. Polly McGuire), I.

found myself facing the problem of what stories
to tell next. We decided one day to take stock of
the story situation. It would be impossible for
several storytellers to cover the city playgrounds
thoroughly, so we attempted to glean a general
estimate of “story knowledge” from a series of
groups comprising a cross section of the cosmo-
politan population of San Francisco. After ques-
tioning the childrbn on these
playgrounds, we discovered
that some of them had had
a slight introduction to
mythology in school Eng-
lish classes, but in most in-
stances they had an aversion
to the subject. We learned
that few of the playground
children had heard of Jason,
Hercules, Zeus, and the
gods; Siegfried and Roland
were meaningless names;
Beowulf and Grendal they

Last summer Mr: Wahl told stories at vari-
ous San Francisco playgrounds and put on ers. After the child con-
a number of plays at the Recreation Build-
ing at the Fair. Clad in monk's garbl he
told Spanish tales tor the treasure hunt of
tour hundred playground children at the
Fair' while Mrs. Polly McGuirel President
of the Golden Gate Story League. dressed
as a Navaio Indian girl' took the children
through the Indian exhibit at the Fed-
eral Building and to other buildings. A
number of the members of the League told
stories at the Recreation Building on al-
ternate Sundays and discovered that adults
were often more interested than children.

did not recognize. Our findings surprised Us. In
a complex population where a blending of many
nationalities is found on the playiields, folklore
and mythology might be expected to prove a live
subject.

We had avoided the use of legends, fearing
that we might be offering “old stuff” adequately
covered in home and school. Even with the re-
sults of the study we hesitated to introduce my-
thology in the story hour. After observing the
children's keen interest in Buck Rogers, Flash
Gordon, the Lone Ranger, Super Man, and simi-
lar characters, we were inclined to feel that Gren-
dal, a monster which could devour only a score
of warriors at a meal, would prove a bit tame!

One day, when I reached the point of repertoire
exhaustion, I told the story of Beowulf. The
effect on the children was tremendous. The fol-
lowing week I told them of the feats of Hercules
and the seven deeds of Maui. The reward was
increased attendance. When we offered the chil-
dren the usual contemporary story, they raised a
noisy protest in favor of the legends. Then it was
that I ventured on a doubtful experiment The
children followed a serial religiously at the local
movie house; why not in the playground story
hour? I expected failure in this undertaking, but
the idea was intriguing, and I was determined to
try it out.

The epic of Siegfried and the Fall of Nibelungs
were chosen for the experiment. After many
hours of condensation, this huge work was sim-
plified and divided into six episodes of forty-five
minutes each. Illustrations from the Wagner
operas, lantern slides and mounted pictures, were
obtained.

At the opening of each meeting a child briefly
reviewed the events in the story of the preceding
week. By this means we were able to gain a fair
idea of what portions of the
story impressed the listen-

cluded, I added the points
which had been missed. Such
additions were seldom nec-
essary. Regularly increased.
attendance bére evidence of
the popularity of the serial.
For six weeks that group
of youngsters assembled
voluntarily to hear the Fall
of the Nibelungs. For six
weeks they came to prove

V

“LAST SUfl-IA/IER ON OUR PLAYGROUNDS!” 99

that myths and legends are not museum pieces
reserved for the use of the research scholar.

Of course the serial story cannot be successfully
told in all groups, but our experience shows that
legends can be used. \Vhen the home and school
have failed to make them familiar, the storyteller
should step in, for it is part of his task to pre-
serve the great epics. ‘They are in print, but
legendary characters should be friends, as real to
the children as the boys and girls with whom
they play. Legends learned by word of mouth are
not forgotten; they are retained because of the
interestthey create in the listener. If only one
legend is included in each story hour, the nar-
rator may feel that his time has been well spent.

A‘ Few Suggestions to the Legend-Teller

Use legends on the playground, but do not con—
tent yourself with the stories of Greece, Rome,
and the Teutons. Investigate Oriental mythology,
American Indian folklore, and the legends of the
ancient civilizations of Mexico and South America.
Polynesian mythology alone holds treasures for
the storyteller’s repertoire. Consult the Russian
‘and Serbian legends. Delve into the fantastic in—
tricacies of Babylon, Persia, Assyria, and Egypt.
Remember, however, that it is a good plan to
select the legends according to the nationalities in
your group. Frequently this method stirs interest
' in the home. Mothers have attended classes be-
cause of this stimulus. From adults one can some—
times obtain short, interesting tales which have
escaped the printing press. '

Do not be content to accept the diluted versions
of legends to be found in children’s libraries. The

l storyteller should have a more intimate acquain-.

tance with his subject. Read the full length trans—
lations, or, if you are fortunate enough to possess
the knowledge, read the originals.

Make your own condensations. Do not fear to
change the stories; remember that they have sur-
vived thousands of years of transmission by word
of mouth, so your version will do them no harm.
If a legend does not interest you to the utmost,
do not tell it. Only with personal enthusiasm
behind a story is it possible to sustain interest.

Simplify names with a clear conscience! A
good rule is to reduce a name to its simplest forms
in single-voweled syllables. Shorten it to two or
three syllables; keep it musical and pleasant in
sound. A name with smooth sounds arouses
interest, while one in which the vowel music is

choked by harsh internal consonants goes in one
ear and out the other. I

As the storyteller delves into legendary ma-
terial, he begins to realize the value of the knowl—
edge of legends for himself, aside from his task
of telling an interesting tale at story hour. Often
adults consider mythology as unworthy of their
attention, but there are few more complex, inter-
locking fields of study. The mythology of Babylon
is sufficient proof of this fact. Here we find one
civilization built upon the ruins of a former one;
we can trace a legendary character back through
an intricate evolution. Even a smattering of my-
thology gives us a better understanding of racial
traits and trends of thought. The social struggles
of today have their roots in the ancient customs
and beliefs of a legendary past. All too often the
failure of a nationalistic movement is due largely
to a misunderstanding of racial trails which 'can
be revealed by a search into forgotten legends.
The mental pulse‘of a nation is in its mythology.

Because they are old, legends are not musty.
The universal appeal of epics has caused them to
withstand centuries of retelling and translation.
Legends are as alive today as they were a thou-
sand years ago, and boys and girls on the play-
grounds will find them so. It remains only for
the modern storyteller to clothe the legends in
the words of today. The gauntlet of mythology
lies awaiting a champion. Storytellers, take it up!

Outdoor Matinees for
Children

HE DEPARTMENT of Playground and Recrea-

tion of Los Angeles, California, has for years
presented a series of children’s outdoor matinees
in playhouse centers on the municipal playgrounds.
Last summer eight- outdoor centers were main-
tained at strategic points in order that participating
grounds of the system might be served to the best
advantage in the many programs scheduled by
fifty—eight children’s dramatic groups. In the
summer of 1938 approximately 1,500 children
took part in these weekly matinees, but in 1939
this number was exceeded.

In addition to the presentation of plays, activi-
ties related to dramatics such as rhythmics, sing-
ing, storytelling, percussion rhythm bands, chil-
dren’s orchestras, and many others are included
in the matinee program. An innovation recently

100 “LAST SUMMER ON OUR PLAYGROUNDS!”

introduced to precede the
play was community sing-
ing which helped greatly
in creating in participants
and audiences alike a
greater spirit of friendli-
ness. The program is also
supplemented by special
dancing groups and by
chorus and orchestra units, and choric speech.

There are stories by the gypsy storyteller in cos-
tume, the stories selected with great care never

failing to keep the children spellbound with in-
terest. Other features are included in the well-
rounded program which the hostess director in
charge of each playhouse center seeks to attain
for the current matinee. Men directors also co-
operate in the matinee program, contributing to
the general interest by leading

the community singing and as-

sisting in many
other ways in
making the pro-
gram successful
and enjoyable.

Outdoor Sets

Last summer
novel outdoor
sets, both use-
ful as a stage
and highly dec—
orative, were
installed. These
included lattice
screens, arbors
a n d p o t t e (1
plants, each set
in turn suggest-
ing an appro-
priate name for
the playhouses
a s f o l 1 o w s :
T h e M a g i c
Bird House ;
t h e S y IV a n
Theater ; the
R o s e T r e e
Nook; the En-
chanted Forest :
the Strawberry
P a t c h ; t h e
Fairy Castle;

The participation. last summer. of more than
I500 Los Angeles children in outdoor matinees
proved the eagerness of both boys and girls
to take part throughout the year in plays and
musical events of the type provided during
the summer. It was therefore decided to pre-
sent similar matinee programs during the tall

and winter months at six community center
buildings designated as I'Little Theaters."

One of the attractive sets used for
the outdoor matinees in Los Angeles

 

the Amazing Sprinkling
Can ;the Circus Playhouse.
These sets have met
with the enthusiastic ap-
proval of the children tak-
ing part in the matinee
programs, as well as par-
ents and others making up
the large audiences.
it has been very gratifying to the Department
to note in each succeeding matinee the ever in-
creasing eagerness of the children to portray the
parts assigned to them in the plays. Parents, too,
are finding much enjoyment in attending the
matinees, not entirely for the interest in seeing
their children participating but because it is their
own community program in which their friends
and neighbors are the audience. Children’s
matinees represent a very im-'
portant part in the dramatic
program of the
Department,
having as they
do so many
values and add-
ing immeasur-
a b l y t 0 t h e
children’s en-
joyment and
happiness.

 

“Among child-
hood’s happiest
hours are those
spent in a land
of make-believe,
a realm of elves
and of fairies,
queens, princes,
and enchanted
castles. Drama
is a year-round

activity at Los
Angeles munici-

pal playgrounds.
Festivals and
pageants, t ab -
leaux, plays and
pantomimes en-
r o 11 thousands
of eager young-
sters.” —— From
Annual Report.

' A Symposium on Playground Activities

A few quick "flashes" from last summer’s play-

ground activities—here, there, and everywhere

MIDSUMMER FESTIVAL. Milwaukee’s mid-
A summer festival has become a city institu-

tion. Last year the committee in charge ar-
ranged again for children over eight years of age
to make pilgrimages to the festival grounds.
Featured in story hours, crafts and bulletin board
announcements, the festival provided interesting
material for playground discussion both before
and after the excursion. The wearing of insignia
created a playground spirit, aided in keeping track
of the members of each group, and provided hand-
craft projects.

In organizing the playground groups the
“buddy” system was used. Each child selected a
partner, and the directors impressed upon the chil--
dren that each one should constantly keep an eye
on his or her “buddy” during the day at the fes-
tival. A man and a woman playground director
accompanied each group of thirty children. One
of the children in every group of ten was made
patrol leader and helped the leaders keep order.
Among the attractions for the boys and girls were
Wisconsin in Milwau-
kee, a forestry, conser-
vation and agricultural
exhibit with live ani-
mals from forest and
farm; an aviation ex-
hibit; United States
Government forestry
exhibit; wonders of
modern electricity, a
demonstration and lec-
ture by the Milwaukee
School of Engineering: '
the amusement row;
and the “Playhouse on
the Green,” which
featured three children’s
dramatic plays. A spe-
cial feature for adults
and children was the
Festival of Nations, a
program of folk dances

 

a
’ “as”; s  Wendi » r d
 do M»-

Courtesy Birmingham Park Department

followed by fireworks. The 1,200 participants in
costumes represented thirty-four nationality
groups. One hundred thousand spectators crowded
into the arena and stood on the hillside at Juneau
Park to watch the program.

Fireplace Suppers. A unique feature of the East
Orange, New Jersey, recreation program last sum-
mer was a series of fireplace suppers in which all
the playgrounds shared. The procedure varied
somewhat on the individual playground. At Elm-
wood Park, for example, parents were invited to
attend on a share-the-cost basis, and supper was
served by the woman supervisor and a volunteer
corps of young men cooks. Staff workers and
some players on the softball team ate with the
parents and children. At other playgrounds the

‘groups were composed mainly of children or boys

and girls in their teens. The average attendance
at each supper was twenty-live.

Sand Modeling. Sand modeling has always been
one of the most popular activities for old and
young in the Birmingham, Alabama, parks. By
giving very young chil-
dren the means to in-
dulge their natural in-
stinct' of using their»
hands, many boys and
girls as well as adults
are getting their first
training in the art of
modeling clay and other
materials into many ar-
tistic and clever objects.
As an example of the
fascinating art of sand
modeling, a Birming-
ham boy is shown fash-
ioning the head of
Abraham Lincoln in a
contest for honors at
Harrison Park in Bir-
mingham. George is now
seventeen years of age
but began sand model—

101

102 A SYMPOSIUM ON PLAYGROUND ACTIVITIES

 

Courtesy East Orange, N. I., Board of Recreation Commissioners

ing at the park when a small boy. His modeling
won first prize among a number of very good
models. .

Safety. That playgrounds shall be safe as well
as happy places is the aim of. every playground
director, and so devices of all kinds were used
last summer to inculcate safety principles in the
minds of the children.

To help stress the need for safety the Kiwanis
Club of Salt Lake City furnished each playground
with two flags—«one white, the other black. The
white flag was flown each day until an accident
occurred. The black flag, which fortunately was
seldom seen, was Hown after an accident had
happened. i

The Ontario, Canada, Playground Commission
organized clubs on the playground whose require-
ment for membership was the careful observance
of rules specifically~ relating to safety on the play-
ground. Bulletin boards, the junior police force
with membership based on safety observance, and
special awards helped materially in making the
children safety conscious. Playground leaders
found that explaining to children the “whys” of
the rules was an important factor in promoting
safety. In addition, almost. 1,200 children were
enrolled in first aid classes conducted on the play-

ground.
Springfield, Massachusetts, is one of the cities

which carries on well-organized safety programs.

Last summer’s
program conduct-
ed under the aus-
pices of the
Springfield Safety
Council included
safety plays, pos-
ter contests, in-
spection of play-
ground apparatus a
for hazards, the .
formation of play-
ground safety pa-
trols, the erection
of. bicycle racks,
and bicycle regis-
tration. Steps were
taken to prevent
the riding of bi-
cycles on the play-
ground or directly
out into the street.
Children were
asked to wheel their bicycles to the street and'
mount them there.

W ith a growing army of bicyclers it is natural
that the safety program everywhere should be
deeply concerned with safety precautions in bi-
cycle riding. Dayton, Ohio, made its All—Wheels
Week the medium for education in the safe use
not only of bicycles but of roller skates, coaster
wagons, scooters, and homemade automobiles.
Races were conducted during the week with any-
thing that would roll!

In order to offer every opportunity for bicyclers
in Cincinnati, Ohio, and to insure their safety, the
city has provided a bicycle trail three and a half
miles in length at one playfield and a~ quarter mile
trail at another. The Public Recreation Commis-
sion furnishes the bicycles used, and no one is
permitted to ride his bicycle to the areas for the
reason that the Commission is unwilling to assume
the risk of accidents occurring while bicyclers are
on their way to the areas. In an effort to insure a
maximum amount of safety the trails have been so
constructed that there is no possibility of bicyclers
coming in contact with automobiles.

Community Play Days. Many cities last summer
conducted community play days. The Cincinnati
Public Recreation Commission extended a special
invitation to parents to attend these events which
brought the children from two to four playgrounds

A SYMPOSIUM ON PLAYGROUND ACTIVITIES 103

together at a central point. Band concerts were a
part of the program, together with some entertain—
ment from units provided by the Federal Theater

Project.

Aviary Day in Salt Lake City. One day last sum-
mer was set aside in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Aviary Day, and children from every playground
gathered at Liberty Park for a visit to the aviary.
Each group was taken on a guided tour through
the aviary, and the habits of the various birds
were explained to them. At the same time a pro-
gressive game program was held on the, center
lawn. After lunch a program was presented at
the bandstand, followed by races. It was esti-
mated that over 3,000 children visited the aviary

on that day.

Special Celebrations in Ann Arbor. Musical ac-
tivities—an important part of the program of the
parks and playgrounds of Ann Arbor, Michigan—
culminated last summer in a public concert. The
program opened with selections by the combined
rhythm bands and continued with numbers by a
clarinet trio, string ensemble, wind instrument
group, and the recreation summer band.

Over 200 children who participated in the reg-
ular supervised program of Ann Arbor’s parks
and playgrounds demonstrated the training they
had received by taking part in the annual pageant
sponsored by city recreation leaders. The pageant
was entitled “An Immigrant Sees America” and
was told by a nar-
rator, with one
boy taking a fea-
tured role as the
child about whom
the pageant re-
volved. The chil-
dren presented na-
tional dances in-
cluding the Irish,
Italian, German,
Scottish, Russian,
Czech, and Indian.

A Sidewalk Ex-
hibition. The play-
ground season at
Reading, Pennsyl-
vania, was brought
to a close last sum-
mer by an exhibit
of myriad multi-
colored articles

made by children of the city’s thirty-two play-
grounds. A unique feature about the exhibit was
the fact that the more than 3,000 articles were
displayed on a long line of tables along the curb
with a sign on each table to indicate the play-
ground where the articles had been made. There
were brightly colored birdhouses, a lifelike plaster ~
of Paris mask, a hooked rug, a patchwork quilt, a
pair of carved wooden shoes, an end table, a
coffee table, and a sewing table on display. Each
playground also exhibited quantities of shoe but-
ton jewelry, articles made from old store boxes

and orange crates, and toys fashioned from inner
tubes..

Model Boat Building. The model boat shop of
Long Beach, California, housed one of the most
popular activities sponsored by the Recreation
Commission last summer. Free instruction was
provided. and boys‘of all ages built boats for the
cost of material. The aggregate attendance at
classes was almost 9,000. Weekly races were held
in the Colorado Lagoon, and the winners received
points which were applied on the all-city
championship.

Street Showers. Still ranking high in popularity
is the street shower, which on a hot day in a con-
gested neighborhood is a welcome gift indeed!
Last year- the Bureau of Recreation in Pittsburgh
placed shower sprays in forty-six different loca-

(Continued on page 125)

 

Dancers—three hundred of them

—will perform over three city

blocks of newly scrubbed pave-.
ment. This is a part of the street '
scrubbing ceremony that will open

"Tulip Time" in Hollandl Michi-g
gan. This year the event will be ‘
held May l8-25. A committee of r
twenty members has been at worlr l
for months in preparation for the ‘
festival. This article describing ‘
the festival is based on material ,

submitted by S. H. Hou’rman.§

 

uTulip Time"

I 5,000 on the shore of Lake Michigan sug-

gested that the citizens adopt a community
flower to be placed in mass plantings over the
city. This town was Holland, Michigan, and as
the name might indicate, ninety per cent of the in-
habitants are of Dutch descent. As the idea
spread, these Hollanders naturally chose the tulip
as their fiower. In 1928 the Common Council
voted an appropriation for 100,000 bulbs to be
imported from thenNetherlandS and planted about
the community under the direction of the munici-
pal park superintendent.

“Tulip Time,” the official date to see the tulips
in full bloom, was announced for May 1929. The
townspeople were delighted with the spectacle and
wanted to make tulip planting a permanent com-
munity institution, so a Tulip Time Committee
was appointed. Through the years there gradu—
ally emerged’a festival centered about the tulips—
a festival including wooden shoes, Dutch cos-
tumes, and the revival of old Netherlands customS.
A former shoe carver was found; he SOOn re-

104

BACK IN 1927 a teacher in a small town of

established his business, ahd now
he is kept busy all the year round
cutting wooden shoes from pop-

lar logs.
As the festival grew from one

to establish a business office. In

manager was engaged, the attend- ’

ance at the festival had increased to over a. half a
million, and the tulip plantings in parks, yards,
and lanes totaled more than three million bulbs.
Tulip Time is conducted by a committee of
twenty chosen by the President of the Chamber
of Commerce and the Mayor. Its members repre-
sent many municipal boards and civic organiza-
tions. Because of Tulip Time’s educational nature,
the school supplies a large part of the leadership
for the various events of the celebration. Service
clubs originate their own projects or carry out as-
signments from the general committee. Because
public interest is high and commercialism re—
mains low, Tulip Time is freely publicized by

newspapers, magazines, and radio. All participa— -
tion is on a volunteer basis, thus expense is kept '

at a minimum. Funds are drawn from several
sources: the city management and the Chamber
of Commerce have included an advertising item
in their annual budget for the festival; the bal—
ance from gate receipts at Tulip Time applies to
general expenses; merchants contribute by the
purchase of colored Tulip Time Poster Stamps,
which they place on outgoing letters and shipments.

The celebration, for which veritable year-round
preparations are carried on, begins on the Satur-
day nearest the iifteenth of May and continues
for eight days. So that every one of the 750,000

to eight days, it became necessary 3
i

1939, when a special Tulip Time ‘

l

“ T UL I P TIME ”

visitors expected this year may be properly enter-
"tained, the leading citizens of Holland have formed
a Dutch Hospitality Club. This group lists all the
residents of the community who have spare rooms
for guests, and at the club depots scattered
throughout the town, overnight visitors may ar-

"range for accommodation in private homes. Three

of the spacious passenger steamboats of the Chi—

‘ cago-Duluth and Georgian Bay Line will be docked

in Holland’s harbor to serve as hotels, providing

' additional housing and eating facilities.

The Celebration Begins

Although the festival exhibits open at nine
o’clock on the first Saturday of the celebration,
Tulip Time is oHicially ushered in at 2 :30 in the
afternoon, when the Mayor calls for volunteer
scrubbers to take part in the traditional street
washing ceremony. Citizens rush out into the

" streets clad in the costumes and klompen (wooden

shoes) of their forefathers and carrying brooms
and brushes. Water is provided in buckets hung
from shoulder yokes. Scrubbing the pavements
with soap and water may seem a bit farfetched
to the most meticulous American housewife, but
many of these housewives were trained in the
Netherlands, where the good “huisvrouw” scrub-
bed not only the doorstep but the entire front of
the house and the bricks of the street as well.

At the signal to cease scrubbing, the workers
step aside to make way for the town “dignitaries.
As from a Rembrandt canvas, the Burgemeester
and the Gemeenteraad (Common Council) ap-
pear for their inspection tour. Then three hun—
dred young people gather in the street. The klomp
klomp .of their marching wooden shoes increases
its tempo and rhythm to that of old Dutch folk
tunes as the “meisjes” and “jongens” go into
their dance.

These girls are high school students trained by
the physical education director. Half of them are
dressed in the vivid blouses, wide trousers, and
stubby-visored caps such as Dutch bOyS wear, and
the others appear in the costumes of the girls of

Volendam, Marken, and Middleburg back in the

Netherlands. The girls begin their training in
January and by May they have perfected their
street dance (which sometimes spreads out over a
quarter of a mile) to the point where they can
dance without music. Small. groups also develop
specialty numbers, for when the dancers have no
scheduled evening performance, they gather be-
fore the Post Office for street dances.

105

After the wooden shoe dancers comes the Volks
Parade, led by the Dutch Delegates (the two most
appealing youngsters of pre-school age selected by
community competition). Next come the city of—
hcials in their authentic seventeenth century cos-
tumes, the scrubbers with brooms slung over their
shoulders, women’s clubs, floats, and bands. Dog-
drawn milk carts, milk maids, and old-style
wagons add to the traditional Dutch atmosphere.

The Tale of the Tulips

Saturday night (and also on two other nights
of the festival) “Tulip Tales” is presented. This
is the big dramatic spectacle produced at_ River-
view Athletic Park under the Hoodlights. The
pageant reveals the interesting history of the tulip,
and in the first scene against the setting of a
forest clearing, Elves—of-the-Wood tell the heroine
of the miracle of a drab bulb developing into the
beautiful tulip. An immense book forms the
background for the next scene as Father Knowl-
edge reveals the history of the tulip. Out of the
pages of the book step the characters who intro-
duced the tulip into EurOpe—«the botany professor
of Leyden University and the thieves who stole
his precious bulbs. As the pages turn, they show
how the Dutchmen became involved in the tulip
mania that threw their nation into near bank-
ruptcy ; they describe the part the tulip played in
the court life of Louis XV of France and how the
tulip’s fame increased in England during Charles
Dickens’ time. The American scene is climaxed
by another appearance of the wooden shoe danc—
ers. This pageant was presented for the first time
in 1939, and it met with such acclaim that it has
been made a permanent part of Tulip Time.

Sunday Vespers

The religious spirit of the Dutchman is so
strong that the inhabitants of Holland frown upon
the Sunday operation of the special attractions of
the festival. At four o’clock Hope College Me-
morial Chapel reverberates to the voices of hun-
dreds of Dutchmen singing the Psalms of the
Fatherland in their native language. A carillon
program on the tower chimes also forms a part
of these vesper services. In the evening is sched—
uled a performance of the high school A Cappella
Choir and Orchestra. Young people’s groups are
now joining forces to arrange for a Community
Hymn Sing for this Sunday evening.

106 “TULI'P TIME”

Little Netherlands

On Monday the exhibits are open again,_ and
throughout the week visitors may find an almost
exact facsimile of the old Holland at Little Neth-
erlands, complete with dykes, windmills, and
canals. In one section is a canal boat just passing
under a hand-operated drawbridge. The bridge
tender is holding out a child’s wooden shoe
suspended from a stick; into it the boatman must
drop a few coppers as toll. From the Delftshaven
Church (a reproductiOn of the famous church
where the Pilgrim Fathers held a farewell wor-
ship service in 1620 ) issues the mufiied sound of
Dutch Psalms. Scattered about the exhibit are a
row of small Dutch houses, a typical Dutch farm,
and a replica of the Rembrandt house. Beyond
this house is a street market where cheese, food

and flowers, pigs and pottery and almost anything
else is sold. All of the animals, human figUres,
and woodcraft in Little Netherlands were con-
structed by these first and second generation Hol-

landers in Michigan.

The Netherlands Museum is another stopping
place for tourists. This folk-museum was founded
three years ago by Holland Americans to preserve
the history of the Dutch people in America. Among
the 5,000 exhibits in the Museum are many legal
and historical documents and several primitive,
handmade farm implements of the pioneers.

The Festival Continues

The featured attraction on Tuesday is the first

appearance in Holland of the West Shore Sym-
phony Orchestra. This orchestra is made up of
leading musicians chosen from several towns along
the shores of Lake Michigan.

School’s Day is on Wednesday, and on this 0c—
casion 3,000 Dutch-costumed and wooden-sliced
children march through the streets of Holland.
Heading the School’s Parade is Tyl Uilenspiegel
with his donkey. In the native folklore of the
Hollander, Tyl is cast in two roles: a roving fool
who makes a laughing stock of the town digni-
taries who attempt to restrain his antics, and a
hero who saved his country during war. The chil-
dren follow him, representing their various schools
in floats which depict activities of the native Hol-
landers. The parade comes to a halt in Riverview
Athletic Park, where the children join in the Volk—
Spel, the games of their Dutch forefathers.

Agrarian Day

Agrarian Day or 4—H Day will be held for the
first time this year. It has long been the dream of
cattle men to hold a Black and White Show—a
“home coming” for the Friesian-Holstein cattle,
a breed that originated in the Netherlands. As
cattle judging is one of the major 4-H accom-
plishments, the Black and White Show serves as
an adjunct to the 4-H Achievement Day. The
program includes demonstrations, meetings, and a
parade by 4-H members. The climax of the day
is a ball game played in native costumes by The
F lying Dutchmen, the crack Holland team.

Music at the Festival

Music is as much a part of Tulip Time as the
tulips and costumes. The outstanding musical
event is the Friday evening concert by the Uni-
versity of Michigan Concert Band, with a review
of five hundred uniformed bandsmen under the
fioodlights at Riverview Athletic Field. The grand
Band Review on Saturday also has an important '
place in the celebration. The three-hour program
is packed with color, action, and music, as 1200
men join in precision maneuvers.

At the conclusion of the Band Review on this
last Saturday of the celebration, 1500 uniformed
young people take part in the climactic costume
and band parade which brings Tulip Time to a
close for another year. Then the citizens of this I
small Holland American town in Michigan put
away their Dutch costumes and wooden shoes—
returning to ordinary life until bulb planting time
signifies the beginning of preparations for another
festival to honor their national flower.

In an article in the March issue of The Ameri-
can Citizen Frank Koskuba describes the scene:

The homes are beautiful ; the yards are groomed
to perfection and everywhere stately tulips nod
a friendly welcome. Masses of vari-colored tulips
along the curbs of streets and parkways beckon
to you. Beautiful deep.purples, a whole block of
them, make a lane for you—deep reds for an-
other block—crimson, pink, white, yellow, gold,
all colors—eight miles of tulip lanes. These lanes,
laid out and planted'especially for festival tours
fairly glow with colors, while in the background,
private homes and even factories vie with each
other for beauty in landscaping and tulip plantings.

|
t O C O
: Summer Recreation In Prlnceton

N 1930 THE Parent-Teacher Association of

I Princeton realized the need for playgrounds in
Princeton Borough and Township, with a
population of 11,000 people, and raised funds for
the maintenance of a centrally located ground by
sponsoring activities such as card parties and cake
sales. Because of the work they accomplished,
civic, religious, and fraternal organizations came
forward with VOIUntary contributions for the fol-
lowing season. The Y.M.C.A. gave the services
of a trained recreation director, and the Y.VV.C.A.
was active in both sponsoring and maintaining the

playground.

The Program Expands

In 1933, just three years from the opening of
the first playground, the generous financial assist-
ance of many organizations and individuals made
it possible to plan for two more playground cen-
ters. The borough and township school boards
extended the use of the school grounds, and the
sites were carefully chosen.

Three years later, borough and township of-
ficials offered to contribute substantially toward
the amount needed to conduct a playground pro-
gram. Although this action eliminated the neces-
sity of large contributions from organizations and
individuals, the supporters continued to give dona-
tions and full coOperation. Each year the borough

and township
councils have
recognized the
constructive
force of the play-
grounds and have
increased the ap-
propriation to
allow for expan-
sion of the pro-

Princeton is one
of the many com-
munities which.
in the past few
years. has become
"swim conscious"

\

By HARRISON MYERS, JR.

Recreation Director

Princeton. New Jersey

gram. With the initiation of a community chest
fund, the organizations were relieved of any re-
sponsibility for contributions, but several groups
continued to send money. This fact clearly demon-
strates how much the people of Princeton appre-
ciate the recreation program for their children.

Two of the areas are located in the borough,
and the third is in the township. One borough
playground is for colored children, and it has an
attendance of 375. Mrs. Edgar Palmer, an inter-
ested citizen, granted the use of part of her prop-
erty for‘these children. The other borough area
is on the grounds of the Elementary School, and
the township playground is also located on school
property. All of the areas are open Monday
through Friday from 1:30 until 5:30 and from
6:30 to 8:30. Their registers list a total of ap-
proximately 700 children, ranging in age from
four up to twenty-one years:

Leadership

Each playground has a director and an assist-
ant. A trained crafts director is assisted by a corp

 

107

108 SUJl/IMER RECREATION IN PRINCETON

of high school students; several adults in the com-
munity give their time to the supervision of other
activities. Revolving committees of boys and girls
assume some of the responsibilities of maintaining
an adequate and well kept play area, although a
carpenter is employed on a full-time basis to
repair the equipment. We have been fortunate in
having the assistance of the WPA, which sup-
plies the carpenter and one of the playground
directors. The program is supervised by the
Y.M.C.A. recreation director and his assistant.

The Activities

Every year, as our experience with playgrounds
_increases, we see more clearly the need for the
right kind of leadership. More responsibility for
an activity program rests upon the director if' a
minimum of slides, see-saws, and swings is pro-
vided. Small equipment and crafts materials are
highly valuable for a well directed playground.
At directors’ meetings the week’s problems are
discussed and plans for the coming week pre-
pared. The sports activities of the past season
included: softball league competition, quoits, zel—
ball, tennis, golf, soccer, badminton, deck tennis.

boxing, and ring toss. Tournaments were held in'

tennis, track and golf. Each playground selected
its champion through elimination contests, and a
day was set when the champions all met on one of
the areas. This practice was continued until each
playground had played host. Then the individual
and playground champions were selected. The
playground scoring the most points was given an
ice cream feed. We plan to include competition
with the Trenton, New Jersey, Playgrounds in
our All-Sports Day next year. Friendly rivalry
has been aroused by the game between the Tren-
ton all-star playground softball team and the all-
star team from the Princeton playgrounds.

A few of the special activities included treasure
and scavenger hunts, picnics, bicycle hikes, and
swimming. On hot afternoons a fire hydrant
sprinkler system was thoroughly enjoyed by the
children. Craft work, storytelling, and dancing
proved popular. Several times during the season
children from nearby communities came to our
playgrounds and spent the day enjoying directed
play and the companionship of other children.

Camping. One of the features of the Princeton
recreation program is the integrated camp pro-
gram carried on at a site five miles from the town.
The community camp committee sponsors it; the
Y.1\l.C.A. contributes the salary of a trained di-

rector whose staff is composed of boys experi-
enced in camping. A small fee (which is waived
in some cases) enables a boy who cannot afford
an expensive camp to receive the benefits of camp-
ing. Girls have the use of the camp late in the

season under the sponsorship of the Y.W.C.A. '

The colored girls go to camp during the last two
weeks under the leadership of the colored
Y.W.C.A.

The Community Swimming Program. Each sum-
mer a six-weeks swimming program is conducted
through the cooperation of Princeton University,

which permits the use of the University swim- .

ming pool. The program is sponsored by the
Y.M.C.A., directed by an executive committee of
townspeople and supervised by the Y.M.C.A. rec-
reation director and two assistants. Each year the
directors select a trained lifeguard crew from the
successful candidates of the life saving classes.

In the past season approximately 300 boys and 
girls PartiCiPated, setting a daily average attend- ii

ance of 175. Because of carefully scheduled
classes instructors were able to direct many age
groups with varying abilities, but there are not

more than thirty-five boys and girls in the pool 

at one time. This year sixty-two children, rang-
ing in age from five to twelve, registered as non-
swimmers. Of this group, fifty-four learned to
swim and entered the large pool. The life-saving
phase of the program received great emphasis, and
the classes were completely filled.

A swimming carnival climaxed the season. The
boys and girls sold tickets, the receipts being
placed in the swimming fund. All outside exhibi-
tions were barred this past year in order to permit
larger participation of the local swimmers. About
I 50 children entered the races and novelty events,
and one of the highlights of the evening was a
swimming demonstration by the young beginners.

Princeton seems to have become “swimming
conscious,” judged by the interest expressed by
parents. Here again is evidence of the complete
community cooperation in the recreation program.
Because of the support of individuals and agen—
cies, swimming was made partially self-support-
ing. “The one dollar fee paid by children for the
period included instructional and recreational
swimming. (A doctor’s certificate was required,
but the doctors gave free examinations when
children were unable to pay.) The adult season
charge of three dollars helped carry the cost of

the children’s program.
(Continued on page 125)

4 _ .u._=.

 

HE GAME OF MARBLES is so old that nobody
knows where or when it began.

In the earthen monuments of the Mound
builders. the mysterious race that peopled America
long before the Indians, flint and clay marbles.
beautifully carved and decorated, were found.
Stone Age remains in Europe,” Asia, and Africa
have yielded marbles rudely rolled of clay or
roughly clipped from pebbles. The British Mu-
seum contains marbles used by Egyptian and
Roman children.

Daniel Defoe, who wrote Robinson Crusoe in

1720. had the following to say about marbles:

"Marbles, which he used to call children’s playing at
bowls, yielded him a mighty diversion, and he was so
dexterous an artist at shooting that little alabaster globe
from between the end of his forefinger and knuckle of
his thumb that he seldom missed hitting plum'b, as the
boys call it, the marble he aimed at. though at a distance
of two or three yards.”

Marbles used to be made out of alabaster. That.
believe it or not, is how they came to be called.
“taws.” This is the way it happened:

Trying to say “alabaster”

children said “alley tor,”
and then just “alley” or
“taw.” The word “commie”

!

comes from “commoney’

which was the “common

clay" or baked marble. The
word “mibs” represents
much the same shortening
of the word “marbles.”

*» ' .nk'

Hirz-Graf Studios

Last February Mr. Kern. who is Supervisor
of Playgrounds and Community Centers in
Cleveland. sent a questionnaire to recrea-
tion directors asking for information re-
garding the playing of marbles—the type
of game used. participation in tournaments
and other matters of interest. Through the
courtesy of Mr. Kern we are presenting a
summary of the study. together with some
interesting and possibly little-known facts
about the game of marbles and its history.

G. I. KERN
Cleveland. Ohio

 

Marbles Today

In more modern times—at least during the past
eighteen years—the increased interest in marbles
caused the development of the National Marbles
Tournament in which 3,000,000 children of the
country participate each year. The game of ringer
is used which, according to the encyclopedias, is
an adaptation of the oldest marble game played.
Sectional finals are conducted in Detroit, Michi-
gan, Cedar Point, Ohio, the POconos in Pennsyl-
vania, Greensboro, North Carolina, and Wild-
wood, New Jersey. This year national finals will
be conducted in Wildwood, New Jersey, on Fri-

day, June 28th.

Although in England marble playing is a sport
of old age as well as youth, in this country the
game is confined to-children fourteen years of
age or younger. With the first warm days of
spring, millions of boys throughout the country
will be around playing some type of marbles along
the curb, in vacant lots, or on playgrounds.

Some cities provide per-
manent marble rings in
school playgrounds or city
playgrounds where the
ground is so level and
smooth that a stiff breeze
will move a marble across
the marble ring. This is true
of the Roanoke, Virginia,
marble rings under the di-
rection of K. Mark Cowen.

109

110 MARBLES—AN OLD GAME

But in most cities a stony and rough playground
must suffice for marble playing. This has caused
some sections of the country to develop an arch
shot whereby the marble is shot thrOUgh the air
and hits plumb instead of being rolled across the
ground to the object to be hit.

‘ The game of ringer is a tremendously skillful
game. Very few boys are capable of putting an
English on the shooters, thus producing a back-
spin, keeping the shooter in the ring for addi—
tional shots. But as marble players near the top
of their respective city tournaments, the skillful
shots of marbles are learned, and in national tour-
nament play a crack shot can often clean the ring
without a miss.

There is great need today for improving the
conditions of play and giving the youth of the
country an opportunity to deveIOp skill in playing
marbles.

Results of a Nation—Wide Study

Of the 212 cities that replied to a recent ques—
tionnaire on marbles, 96 per cent reported that
children play marbles in their towns, and 4 per
cent that they do not.

Seventy-five per cent reported they play ringer,
and 25 per cent are divided among the thirty-one
other games of marbles.

Sixty-seven per cent reported the game organ-
ized on competitive play, with 23 per cent un-
organized.

City recreation departments conducted 54 per
cent of the tournaments; boards of education, 23
per cent; and other organizations, 23 per cent.

Medals ranked first place in local awards with
44 per cent; ribbons'second, with 23 per cent;
merchandise with I 5 per cent; trips, 16 per cent;
and cash, 2 per cent.

Financing of marble tournaments rated: news~
papers, 28 per cent; city, 28 per cent; board of
education, 12 per cent; civic groups, 10 per cent;
and others, 22 per cent.

Of the towns which play ringer, 80 per cent
use a 10—foot ring, with 20 per cent using a ring
varying in size from 4 to I 5 feet.

A list of the many games of marbles played
throughout the country follows:

Ringer Baby in the hole
Fish ' Shootus

Pug Miggles

5 and 10 Mibs

Bing ring Canoe

Hole Bull

In the fat Long shot

Roller holley Ping eye

Lag Knucks

Tow line Keeps

Pooning Pini in the hole
Bunny in the Monk Chase

Pot Boston

Chinese Roro

Pitch to line Roto

Bowling Sin—sin

The Program in Cleveland

In Cleveland the game of ringer is played in
the various schools during April and May. The
boys use a ring 10 feet in diameter, while the
girls use a 7 foot ring. A games committee of
pupils is organized in each elementary school, and
a tournament is planned to determine the room
champion. The room champions then meet to de-
termine the school champion. The schools are
grouped into districts, and the third round of play
results in designating the district winners who
finally meet to decide the city championship.

The tournament is sponsored by the Cleveland
Press, a local newspaper, and the following awards
are made: room champions receive a bronze
medal; school champions, a silver medal; district
champions, a gold medal. City champions, a girl
and boy, are taken to the national tournament.
Throughout the county approximately 60,000
boys and girls participate in match play. A special
effort is made to improve the playing space by
sweeping and rolling.

This year demonstrations will be planned for
the various districts.

“The game of marbles must have been played
by boys of ancient lands in the earliest times, prob-
ably as soon as it was discovered that round peb—
bles would roll along the ground. It is likely that
the boys in the first colonial settlements of
America played some form of marbles. There is
warrant for the assumption that the youngsters of
colonial New England contrived marbles of baked
clay and taught their youthful Indian playmates
the game in exchange for instruction in shooting
the bow and arrow. ,

“Many kinds of marble games have been
played in different countries and different periods
of time. The game, like all other recreational ac—
tivities that have survived through the passing of
time, has been developed and perfected from what
must have been a simple, primitive form. The
fertile mind of eager youth was doubtless quick
to invent new forms of play from generation to
generation.”——From Parks and Recreation.

 
 

established place in the playground move-

ment, and methods of teaching can be had
free of charge from the leading manufacturers.
W'hen getting material for our band in Dayton,
we do not pick boys and girls who already play;
for once they are on their way, there are plenty of
outside agencies to take care of their advance-
ment. Remembering that our purpose in this field
is to interest boys and girls in music, we start
from scratch and select boys and girls, ten years
of age and older, who cannot play.

These children furnish their own harmonicas
in a standard key. After completing a short course
in elementary music, they are encouraged to take
up an advanced type of instrument, the chro-
matic harmonica. If successful after a period of
training on this harmonica, they are admitted into
the membership of the Dayton Civic Harmonica
Band.

They serve an apprenticeship in this band for a
period of six months before they are permitted to
make public appearances with the group. During
this time, the instructor is endeavoring to obtain
uniforms for them. In the Civic Band, they are
encouraged to form friendships, and the first duty
of the instructor himself is to make friends with
the students. They have an opportunity to group
together in sextettes, thus giving,” separate per-
formances on their own occasionally.

The set-up of the band is built upon an ideal—
the wish of providing every possible advantage
for these boys and girls with a minimum amount
of expenditure on the part of the individual or his
family. The child is encouraged to earn his own
harmonica rather than asking Dad to buy it for
him. The band, with a total membership of sixty,
earns money by performing in churches, schools,
and civic clubs. In the event a concert is given in

I IARMONICA PLAYING and study has a definite,

Dayton's
Harmonica

Band

By NORMAN SULLIVAN
Director of Music
Dayton, Ohio

O "f
. if
f
tI
{m
J 'i
l.-

a school, it is usually sponsored by the P.T.A. or
a similar organization, which does the advertising
and ticket—selling and shares in the proceeds. The
prices are fixed according to the approximate
standard of living in the neighborhood, and play-
ground performances are naturally free to the

public.

The band has its own president, secretary, and
treasurer. What do they do with the money?
Take a look at the picture. .These are special har-
monicas used for certain effects. The girl on the
left holds a professional model. Ten of these are
used in a band of sixty, and they retail at six
dollars. The boy on the left has a double—bass,
which takes the place of a bass violin. Fourteen
double-basses are required for the band. The cen-
ter boy has a professional model. The boy on the
right has a chord harmonica, whose length makes
it a rarity in the United States. This harmonica
has forty-eight ditferent chords, consisting of '

'major, minor, augmented, and diminished. It

was purchased by money earned by the band for

the sum of forty-two dollars. It replaces the
piano when we are-unfortunate enough to appear
where a piano is not tuned to standard pitch. The
chord is practically indispensable in sextette work.
The girl on the extreme right holds a number
eight Polyphonia. The polyphonia is the har-
monica that is used for the runs or 51115 that give
background and color to any harmonica selection.

The harmonica band fills a place in our musical
picture that is needed in any community. The
children learn the fundamentals of music and
playing with a group. Then they 'may graduate to
standard orchestral instruments. It is interesting
to note that the only ones who dropped out of the
original band, which was formed two years ago,
have taken up standard instruments.

111

WORLD AT PLAY

BECAUSE of a “labora-
tory experiment with
evaluation of city prop-
erty',” the City of
Royal Oak, Michigan, has found it profitable to
continue the development of parks and play-
grounds on tax-delinquent lands. The experi-
ment: The city increased a park area around a
school and improved streets and utilities in the
surrounding district. Result: Adjacent property
values rose and home building in those sections
boomed. At present, Royal Oak is preparing to
lay out eight new parks and twenty-six neighbor-
hood playgrounds on tax-delinquent areas.

As another example of what is happening with
tax delinquent land, the City Council of Dear-
born, Michigan, withheld 350 acres from tax sale
as possibly being useful for recreation or school
purposes. The Recreation Commission is study-
ing the situation with the City Plan Commission,

Recreation and Tax-
Delinquent Land

and it is possible that part of Dearborn which has
been subdivided but little built upon will have
adequate play space.

WHEN the Director
of Recreation in Lin-
den, New Jersey, Mr.
Frank Krysiak, de-
cided that a garden club might be a desirable ad-
dition to the community’s recreation program, he
was faced with the problem of finding the people
who might be interested in the activity. In a
search for “prospects,” he went to the building
inspector and secured a list of all the new homes
built within the past eighteen months. There were
over three hundred. Next he talked with the li-
brarian, an unusually social-minded woman, and
she prepared for him a list of people who had
taken out garden books in the past year. To these
lists of people Mr. Krysiak sent a letter regarding _
the organization of a garden club.

Digging Up Garden _
“Prospects”

Twenty-fifth National
lleereetien Congress
Cleveland, Mia

The Congress
is America’s medium
for exchanging in-
formation and expe-
rience on recreation

September 30 - - October 4

Nineteen Hundred and Forty
Headquarters: STATLER HOTEL

(I You are cordially invited to share in this national symposium
of ideas. Share in preparation. Share through participation.

(I Come and make your experience available. Come and get
ideas and inspiration for your work. Volunteer or professional
worker; public or private agency—all are welcome!

(I The Congress is the meeting place for all who desire to
confer on any phase of recreation.

Further Information :

112

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue

New York City

 

WORLD AT PLAY

Annual Meeting of the American Associa-
tion for Adult Education—The American As-
sociation for Adult Education will hold its fif-
teenth annual meeting at the Hotel Astor, New
York City, May 20—23, 1940. Among the speak-
ers will be Charles A. Beard, the historian,
Dorothy Canfield Fisher and Louis Adamic, au—
thors, Robert M. Hutchins, President of the Uni-
versity of Chicago, Mildred McAfee, President of

VVellesley College, and Harry Overstreet, author
and philosopher. The general theme is to be “The
Democratic Way—~an Educational Process,” and
the four days will be filled With nine general ses-
sions, forty-five section meetings, two luncheons,
and a banquet. There will be no registration fee.

Among the meetings of special interest to rec-
reation workers will be one scheduled for Mon-
day afternoon, May 20th, on “Recreation in
Adult Life,” at which Mrs. EVa Whiting White
of Boston, Reynold Carlson of the staff of the
National Recreation Association, E. Dana Caul-

kins, Superintendent of the Westchester County
Recreation Commission, and Mark A. McCloskey
of the New York City Board of Education will
speak. There will also be a meeting on Monday
afternoon on “Planning the Community School.”

New Streamlined Horseshoe Announced—

The age old game of horseshoe pitching is being
streamlined, and it is in the shoes themselves that
the modern touch is most noticeable. The Diamond
Super Ringer Horseshoe, manufactured by the

Diamond Calk Horseshoe Company of Duluth,
Minnesota, is the most recent accomplishment of
the Diamond designers. The cadmium and cop—
per plating finish is an exclusive Diamond finish
which makes the Super Ringer outstanding in ap-
pearance as well as in performance. According to
the company, horseshoe pitching fans report that
the new shoe is productive of more ringers and
fewer of the hit-and-run shoes which twirl the
stake for a few revolutions and then depart in
other directions. Furthermore, the manufacturers
state, the Super Ringer is drop forged from a
specially developed tool steel, which means a de-
finite improvement not only in lengthening the life
of the shoes, but in affecting the way they act
when thrown. Other items manufactured by the
Diamond Calk Horseshoe Company include many
styles and models of pitching shoes, official courts,

stakes, stake holders, score pads, rule books, 311d
instruction booklets.

. “w... ...

 

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of

l I- *3." .
a. a, ., .

THE; P. GOLDSMITH SONS," Inc.

JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., CINCINNATI, OHIO

Here’s the

New '
DIND

 

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
madel Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe. with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
treated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who lmow the value of a good tourna-
ment shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE 00.

46|O GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

1 1.3

 

 

'114 WORLD AT PLAY

Public Recreation in Toledo—Public recrea-
tion in Toledo, Ohio, according to Gordon Jef-
fery, Director of Public Welfare, does not cost
more than one-tenth per cent per capita. The city
now has 23 public parks with 1,569 acres of land
which are a permanent investment in recreation.
In the past few years many improvements and
additions have been made, among them a new
swimming pool and bathhouse in Scott Park, four
rubble stone park shelter houses, four comfort
stations, and a new athletic field. One of the park
golf courses has been enlarged, and a number of
small lakes have been constructed for fly casting
and skating. Fifty new concrete tennis courts
have been constructed in a dozen parks. An am-
phitheater has been built for outdoor concerts in
Ottawa Park, and picnic facilities have been mul-
tiplied. A new skating rink has made possible ice
hockey.

“Recreation is making Toledo a much better
place in which to live.”

A Tribute to Jefferson F. Meagher—At the
first annual dinner of the Binghamton, New York,
Junior Chamber of Commerce held in January,
the first distinguished service award of the Junior
Chamber of Commerce was presented to Jefferson
F. Meagher, attorney, for his outstanding work
in connection with the Binghamton Recreation
Association and its drive for the inauguration of
a city-wide public recreation program. “At a time
when economy is a large word and when there is
a tendency for competent administration to be
hampered by political consideration,” said .Mr. C.
M. McLean, chairman of the committee selected
to name the recipent of the award, “Mr. Meagher
did so skillfully and convincingly present the
needs for supervised playground activity that
through the joint effort of the city and the De-
partment of Education a beginning was made for
a creditable program under a supervised plan."

Preparation for Acquiring Recreation

Areas
(Continued from page 67 )

the north of the center of the property on Pem-
berwick Road. Convenient to 'the entrance and to
the proposed playground shelter is a special sec—
tion for pre-school children. This area is enclosed
by a hedge and should be equipped with benches
for mothers, junior apparatus, and similar equip-
ment, and open space should be provided for in-
formal games.

A shelter house is suggested, with toilet facili-
ties, an activities room, a director’s office, and
adequate storage space. On the axis of the build-
ing a wading pool 30’ x 50’ has been indicated on
the plan. When drained, this pool can be used
for many other activities. Close to the shelter
house a shaded area for crafts and quite games
has been suggested.

Immediately in front of the shelter house the
plan shows a fenced, hard—surfaced area. This is
a particularly valuable facility because of its mul—
tiple use possibilities. Here various game courts
such as badminton, paddle tennis, volleyball, bas-
ketball, softball, and hopscotch, can be set up. The
area can also be used for roller skating, social
dancing, and many other types of activities re-
quiring a surface of this nature. A section also
provides a fenced area for informal games and
apparatus for older children. In the extreme north
corner of the property facilities have been intro-
duced for boccie and horseshoes. A path extends
to the tennis courts located in the northeast sec-
tion of the property.

The various ledges and natural hillsides of the
area have been developed into a series of picnic
sites connected by numerous trails. On the highest
point an overlook can be used for a picnic shelter
in case of rain. This point offers an excellent
view of the surrounding territory. .

The cultural phases of recreation have been
considered by the introduction of an amphitheater
located on the west boundary of the land. The
treatment of the amphitheater conforms to the
natural features of the area; even the stage wall
and wings are designed in an irregular pattern.
N o permanent seating is suggested as the natural
turf bank can be used for the auditorium. The
stage floor is also of turf.

The fine spring and brook on the property have
been carefully preserved, arrangements having
been made to cap the brook as it flows through
the field game area. A reflecting pool has been
constructed in the wooded area to increase the
aesthetic appeal. A council ring is provided "on
the upper level for fireside activities.

The winter sports aspect has not been forgot-
ten, and a ski-slide and coasting area have been
suggested. The level section can be fiooded for
skating.

Splendid opportunities for recreation are often
overlooked by municipalities because on first ob-
servation the land in a proposed development
seems utterly unsuitable; careful study alone dis-
closes the full possibilities of an area.

«'here’s no excuse for dust
when you can use

iiULF SANI-SOIL-SET

HE MODERN DUST ALLAYER

I
I

ERE’S an ideal product for dust allaying pur-

 

oses on earth surfaces. Gulf Sani-Soil-Set —

  
 

 

another sensational development by Gulf’s re.

search technologists — offers a practical solution
to the dust problem on playgrounds, tennis
courts, athletic fields, parking lots, etc.

One application of Gulf Sani-Soil-Set per sea-
son Will usually do the job. Properly applied,
it Will not track or harm shoes or clothing.

Don’t let another season pass Without getting

the benefit of this inexpensive dust allayer.

GULF OIL CORPORATION

GULF BUILDING ' PITTSBURGH. PA.

_——-—_—_—.——_————_——n——o__——u——_——

GULF OIL CORPORATION ' GULF REFINING COMPANY
Gulf Building, Pittsburgh. Pa. R

Please send me without obligation a copy of the booklet “Gulf Sani-
Soil-Set for Treating Playgrounds."

 . . . . . . g . n u u . - . - n . u u g u u c c o o o c I '0' o c o o o o c o o o o o o o o u o o 00.0.0.

I

Title . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

I...'..__._.____.|

116 NOW THAT DAY CAMPING HAS COME OF AGE

 

EVERWEAR Playground Apparatus
Economy Payground Apparatus}

EVERWEAR Swimming Pool Equipment
EVERWEAR Basketball Baokstops

Write for FREE Catalog No. 32

Address Dept. R

EVE? Wear

Manufacturing Company

SPRINGFIELD, OHIO

9137!“?
Will)”. 15

Thrilling, Inexpensive Game
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR

PLAYGROUNDS

Playground Directors Report Enthusiastic
Reception of the “K” Baseball Target Game

Boys everywhere go for this exciting game in a big
way. This game develops strength and skill and is
ideal for “Ball-throwing Contests.” Any number of
boys can play. Minimum supervision required. Tar-
get made of extra-heavy canvas with attractive red-
stenciled design. Frame made of heavy galvanized
pipe. Easy to move. Give the boys in your city a real
treat by equipping every one of your playgrounds
with at least one target. Get ready for the coming
season—write today for free descriptive folder and
special playgron prices.

The “K” SHOP - Manufacturers

P.O.Box 702 - CEDAR RAPIDS - IOWA

 

Now That Day Camping Has Come
of Age

( Continued from page 74)
were not readily obtainable and, as a consequence,

thousands of eager children were led among trees
which had no names, no identity; past plants
which had no uses or significance for them; over
hills and into valleys which had no explanation
for existence, and by rocks and stones devoid of
fascinating history! Today, however, this need
not be true. A good naturalist necessarily adapts
his methods to the children._How many stories a
good naturalist can tell interestingly and without
embellishment !

A child cares less than nothing about jewel
weed (“touch-me-not”) until he is shown how the
remarkable seed pod “explodes” upon being
touched. Suddenly he is interested, and then the
leader may tell exactly what happens to cause the
phenomenon. That is education. A broad-leaved
plantain may not be remembered by children until
they are shown that little game, “How many love
me P” The leader illustrates by asking this ques-
tion, then stoops to pluck the leaf oftc close to the
ground. He stands erect and displays the result.
Several tiny hairlike strands are to be seen, and
equally evident is the interest in the faces of the
children! Now they will remember and recognize
the broad-leaved plantain. A basswood tree may
remain forever nothing but a tree to children until
they are shown the extraordinary strength of the
inner bark and perhaps permitted to weave a strand
of rope “like the Indians used to do.” The com-
mon mullein plant may prove to be of amazing
educational value if the leader uses some of the
leaves to make a delicious tea at the dinner period.
Children are delighted with this, and the good
leader takes advantage of their attention to point
out many valuable or edible plants.

The plant called “stinging nettle” will be an
excellent opening for a valuable discussion on poi-
sonous plants. Calling for a volunteer from the 1
group (boys are always willing if assured the ‘
pain is only short-lived), the leader suggests that
he permit himself to be “stung.” After this the
children will be eager to listen to tales about poi-
son sumac and poison ivy, and the scientific con-
clusions are welcomed by them.

If a leader discusses a fossil cephalopod or
brachiopod or trilobite, or whatever kind of fossil '
animal he may have previously found, by calling it
“Oscar,” he will find the children anxious to see

(Continued on page 120)

    

The difference in cost between really good
equipment and mediocre equipment is insignifi-

cant when measured in terms of performance and
enjoyment. . . . Genuine Autographed Louisville Slugger
Bats are the finest made—fashioned by master craftsmen ac-
cording to Big League standards. Give your team a chance with the
best, by supplying them with the “Bat of Champions.” . . . Your
Sporting Goods Dealer has them in a wide variety of models to suit

the style of every type of hitter.

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY CO., Inc., Louisville, Kentucky

Also manufacturers of Louiwille Slugger Softball Bats; Louisville Grand Slam Golf Club:
I and Louisville Lo‘Skore Golf Clubs.

LOUISVILLE SLUGGER BATS *

117

 

118

ELLA STRONG DENISON

The American Citizen——
His Character and Citizenship

brings each month to its readers a story
of what community organizations, insti-
tutions, and agencies are doing — or
not doing —

'l'o lay the foundation for good citizenship

To build good character

To develop personality

To solve community problem:

To safeguard democratic institutions
To improve family life

To promote recreation and good health
To encourage cooperative activities

The magazine is the medium of expres-
sion for the National Council on Char-
acter and Citizenship. It is of particular
value to:

School and Church Leaders
YMCA and Y.W.C.A. Secretaries and
Directors

Boy and Girl Scout Executives

Parent-Teacher Association Officers
Leaders of Youth Club: and Activities
Directors of Recreation

Dr. Francis L. Bacon. Principal of the Evanston.
Illinois, Township High School says, "The current
issue of your magazine came to my desk this
week. I carried it home and pleasantly. I believe
profitably, too, spent an evening reading the
entire contents.

"Permit me to express my appreciation of the
increasing value of this unique periodical. I could
ardently wish that every school library possess
one or more subscriptions. It would seem, too, that
civics and guidance teachers might well utilize
the magazine as reference material for students.

"The overview which your periodical gives to
the work of the various social agencies and the
emphasis afforded to the desirable coordination
of school and community social agencies consti-

tute a superior service. More power to your
eiiorisl"

Send your order to

THE AMERICAN CITIZEN

5132 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

"I...-----------

o
9 Please record my name as a sub-

scriber to THE AMERICAN CITIZEN
as checked below.

[I One year subscription at $2.00

N AME ............................................................................ ..
Annnsss ........................................................................ ..

Cm .......................................... .. STAT]: .................... ..
Nat. Rec.

 

Ella Strong Denison

 

N MARCH 13, 1940, the recreation movement

lost one of its early friends and one of its
pioneer workers in the death of Mrs. Ella Strong
Denison of Denver, Colorado, and San Diego,
California. Mrs. Denison was interested in the
local recreation movement in Denver, Colorado.
She attended the Richmond, Virginia, Recreation

Congress in 1913. She was elected a member of
the Denver School Board in 1921.

In memory of her son, Dr. Henry Strong Deni— '1

son, who studied at Cornell University, Mrs. Den-
ison established a $50,000 Trust Fund, the income

from which is used to meet the cost of apprentice .

fellows gaining experience and training in the rec-
reation field.

Mrs. Denison was for years a regular contribu-
tor to the Association and one who took a personal
interest in its work, visiting the office of the As-
sociation to talk about recreation problems. Mrs.
Denison believed particularly in making govern—
ment work in recreation effective.

Mrs. Ella Strong Denison’s daughter, Mrs.
John D. Jameson, is a member of the Board of -
Directors of the National Recreation Association.

l

. I tank for the DBT...it identities
- _ .m.genumemsm.ean.m.
P itated-whut never duplicated!

Vait Official Sat; Ball hits a Home Run in value foryau.
,,Kapok center is uniformly wound with high quality latex.

. ' impregnated cotton yam by exclusive gumawincling process,

then vulcanized to tough, scuff-proof rubber cover that has

no stitches to rip or wear out. Cannat loosen, slip, or lose its

shape. Weather-water—proaf. Will neither take an nor, lose

weight, crack, dry out or "

harden. Pure white,wash-

able, perfect for night

play. Sizes from 9" to

16". See your Sporting

Goods Dealer. Write to-

day for new catalog.

Voit Sports Equipment also includes Enduro and
AIIHRubher Athletic Balls, Baseballs, Inflated
Playground Balls, Tennis Balls, and other items.

‘7

.UU'SPORTS
EQUIPMENT

Mid. by W. l. Voit Rubber Corp., 1600 E. 25th St., Los Angeles, Calif. - Branch: 180 N. Wacker Dr., Chicago, Ill.

 

119

120 A TRIBUTE THROUGH PLAY

  

Subscription
Price

$2.00

A Journal of Ideas and Projects for the School as a

CHARACTER AND CITIZENSHIP LABORATORY

in which

Student Council, Clubs, Home Rooms, Athletics,
Music, Debate, Publications, Trips, Dramatics,
Assembly, Financing Activities, and Social
Functions make democratic settings and life
situations typical of the American way of living
and Working together.

§ch00Q chtlottiea

HARRY C. McKOWN. Editor
C. R. VAN NICE. Managing Editor

    
   
  

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING Co.

Now That: Day Camping Has Come of Age
(Continued from page 116)
it. Having finally seen the fossil they want to
know all about it, and the entire field of geology
is opened for them by the leader.

Thus Mother Nature gives us a beautiful lan-
guage. And when this language is well interpreted
and wisely used, the question of how much infor-
mation on nature lore to give the children becomes
“how much time is available?”

A Tribute Through Play

(Continued from page 80)
Proclamation by the mayor.
Radio talks, skits, dialogues, or music.
Sermons.
Talks before service clubs, P.T.A.’s, Chamber of
Commerce, and in neighborhood groups.

General Suggestions .

These suggestions relate to planning and carry-
ing out the day’s program.
Organize local committee to plan the program of
activities.

1515 LANE STREET

TOPEKA, KANSAS

Send plans to National Joseph Lee Day Commit-
tee. Any information available that might be
helpful will be forwarded to local committees.

Keep all plans simple and joyous.

Record what is done. Send full reports and pic-
tures to National Joseph Lee Day Committee.
Use the occasion to focus community attention
upon the present and future needs of the city.

Helps Available Through the National
Recreation Association

Brochure giving biographical sketch of Joseph
Lee, suggestons for commemorating the day,
characteristic ideas, ways, and sayings of Joseph
Lee in addition to incidents from his life. Limited
supply.

Copies of Reader’s Digest article “Godfather of
Play.”

Pageant—“The Pursuit of Joy.”

Pictures—a few photographs and reprints from
RECREATION showing Mr. Lee in sitting and
standing positions.

“The Ballad of Joseph Lee”—a pageant in two
episodes with short sequences which will make it
possible for local groups to make omissions or

DOING IT THE JOSEPH LEE W'AY 121

substitutions. A speaker and small chorus are

‘- used.

Special issue of RECREAT10N* devoted to

1' Joseph Lee. The main facts about his life and
’ work as well as many comments by his friends

make this the most valuable source of information.

NOTE: These materials should be ordered as soon as
possible from the National Recreation Association, 315
Fourth Avenue, New York City.

Doing It the Joseph Lee Way

(Continued from page 81)

under the stars, and dancing on the moonlit beach,
when the tide was out and the sand was as smooth
and hard (almost) as a ballroom floor.

My father would not have objected to stories of
a hero but he would have abhorred any idea which
created a bloodless, sentimental stereotype, or any
method of forcing a form of expression on the
children. In this connection, Washington is a case
in point. My father admired Washington tre-
mendously, but realized his low visibility as a
hero, especially as presented to children. Once
when I was teaching, he helped me to pick out
incidents from \Vashington’s early life which
would appeal to the dramatic imagination of chil-

  

As Originally
Developed by . . .

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity

Basketball Coach
University at Kansas
Lawrence, Kansas

 

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating
exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG

(Manufactured Under Exclusive Licenselllgreement)

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
3524 DeKalb Street a a a a a a. St. Louis, Mo.

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

dren, and thus help Washington to come alive;
as, for example, the time when he carried a mes-

 

sage through the trackless forest to the French
Fort on the Ohio, swimming a river and spending
the night on an island Without a fire, for fear of
the Indians. He knew that the cherry tree story
was not only untrue, but would carry little or no
appeal to the normal red-blooded child. He felt
that Parson Weems had a lot to answer for.

. Once, when I was in Normal School, my father
made an address to the class. Afterwards several
of my classmates spoke to me saying how sur-
prised they had been at the way he looked. “Why,”
they said, “we had pictured him as looking sort of
like Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, with a long
white beard l”

And so I say, don’t let him grow into a Depart-
ment Store Santa Claus, with nothing but a white
beard and a reputation for benevolence to recom-
mend him, nor yet into the “cherry tree” type of
childish hero. He liked people who were “fierce”

> and “sassy” and had “punch,” pictures and dances

that had “zip,” and jokes that “caught you under
the Fifth rib” and woke you up laughing in the
middle of the night. I have never known anybody

 

‘ RECREATION, December 1937, price 50c.

#

farther from the traditional stereotype of the
“dear old gentleman.” I can’t remember a period
when he didn’t go upstairs two steps at a time.
Let us not lose sight of his own bite and humor
and joie de w'we, his belief in the “jugular vein.”
For the spark of the Irish was in his blood, and
the tang of the New Englander.

The other day, I was at a party where many
waltzes—mthe gay Viennese sort—were played
with real spirit by a Polish orchestra. Afterwards
a friend of mine and I sat bemoaning the fact
that our partners could not really waltz. “Well,
you see,” she said, “we compare it to those won-
derful parties at Camp, when we all went wild,
waltzing. And of course nobody could waltz like

your father l”

One of my father’s favorite expressions about a
speech, a conversation, and the like, was “a song
and dance.” It seems to me somehow symbolic of

his attitude towards life.

Let us make of Joseph Lee Day a “song and
dance.”

122 PAGEANTRY ON THE PLAYGROUND

~ UN l-GOAL

outline included for story of Rip Van Winkle.

Start Y our Planning N ow for the Summer Closing
Festival. June 1935.

l/V hen the Finale Is a Pageant. May 1938.
This is an article summarizing a number of play-
ground pageants presented by recreation departments
throughout the country. Includes brief description of
pageant “Recreation, Ancient and Modern” presented
;by Union County, N. J., Park System; a folk pageant
telling history of Reading, Pa.; a musical review,
“King’s Court,” put on by Artists’ Club of the St.
Paul, Minn, Parks and Playgrounds; Cinderella pag-
eants produced at Kenosha, Wis., and Lansing, Mich,
and others. All adaptable for production in other

Here is your answer to the outdoor bas-
ketball problem.

It is inexpensive, requires little space,
and provides a type of recreation that is
pOpular with almost every boy or girl.

For particulars, write

SGHUTT MANUFACTURING COMPANY

W. Union Avenue Litchfield, Illinois

Pageantry on the Playground
(Continued from page 78)

This year the festival will be called “Americans

All.” The climax Of the series, it will show the
process of making many peoples into one.

Bibliography
Below are listed articles on pageants and festi—

vals and their production which have appeared in

RECREATION from time tO time.

Boston Revives the Medieval Pageant Wagon by Mar-
garet Caswell. July 1934.

Heigh-Ho for a Merry Spring by Augustus D. Zanzig.
April 1935. (Also available in reprint form from
National Recreation Association for 15¢.)

Suggestions for a simple pageant.

The Magic Dell. April 1938.

A festival in Los Angeles, California, which brings
to a close a season of playground events by making
use of the abilities developed through plays, dances,
music, handcraft, and other activities conducted regu-
larly at municipal playgrounds. '

Plays and Pageants for the Playground by Helen Board.
July 1933.

Producing the Playground Pageant by Jack Stuart
Knapp. August 1936.

Offers practical suggestions on how to plan, write.
organize and produce a playground pageant. Pageant

 

localities.
You Asked For It! March 1939.

Advice and suggestions sent to a Recreation Depart-
ment asking for help with a playground pageant.

Bulletins issued by the National Recreation As—

sociation on this subject include the following:

A List of Plays for Children from Five to Fifteen.

Free on request. A bibliography including formal
plays, pageants, and festivals.

Lists of Pageants, M asks and Festivals—PVith Organiza-
tion Material. 15¢. Includes listing of pageants. Also
offers an outline to be followed in the writing and

' preparation of a pageant.

Safety Versus Lawsuits
(Continued from page 91)

then discovered that by wrapping an iron band
around the storm drain and extending this iron
band about ten feet in the air, a sufficiently strong
structure resulted, so that the sign would stay in
place several years. Of course, the signs them-
selves will, and do, require occasional repainting.
But that is true of signs everywhere.

“It can’t be done”—“It’s impractical”——“Kids
are bound to get hurt" — these are a few Of the
standard answers you get when you try to put
over a safety program. Pay no attention to them.
Be convinced in your own mind that it is practical
to do these things, and that it is, on the contrary,
the height Of impracticality not to.

As to signs, there are generally speaking four
distinct types: first, those which are a plain state-
ment Of fact, such as “WATER ONLY TWO FEET
DEEP”; second, those which are opinions, such as
“THIS AREA SAFE FOR SWIMMING BUT UNSAFE
FOR DIVING”; third, those which call attention to
the law, such as “DIVING FROM THIS WALK
PROHIBITED BY LAW. ORD X—5 54”; fourth, those
Of a general advisory or exhortatory nature, such
as “BE CAREFUL,” “DON’T SPOIL YOUR VACATION
BY GETTING HURT,” “IF IN DOUBT CONSULT
YOUR DIRECTOR,” “SEE THE DIRECTOR, HE Is
HERE To HELP YOU.”

.
I

f

L.

ii

ll

MACAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 123

  
    

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
2 Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 2

  
    

MAGAZINES

The American City, January 1940
“Designing a Swimming Pool” by Arthur A. Cassell

Beach and Pool, January 1940

"Swimming Pools for Organized Camps”
“Pool Facilities are Public Necessities” by L. F.
Vockenson, F. W. Kerr and G. F. Wright

The Camping Magazine, January 1940

“A Survey of'Camp Problems” by Paul Schuman

“Even Rocks Tell Their Story" by Cornelia Cameron
The place of geology in camp

“Making Molehills Out of Mountains” by Frances
Marie Tappan. Mountain climbing in the camp
program

“Caring for Boats in Camp” by Marjorie Camp

“Nocturnal Hunting” by Frank S. Oehr. Hunting
with flashlight and camera '

' Character and Citizenship, January 1940

"Recreation in Church and Community” by Charles
D. Giaque, Raymond W. Porter and H. D. Edgren
——an appraisal by Dr. Philip L. Seman

? The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
January 1940

"Music in the Gymnasium” by Norman Lloyd
“Reducing Health Hazards in the Swimming Pool”
by Wallace A. Manheimer

“Snow or Straw—We Ski l” by Luell A. Weed

“Co-Recreation in Physical Education Programs” by
G. M. Gloss

“Skating as a Physical Education Activity” by
Carita Robertson

“A List of Films on Skiing” prepared by Lawrence
E. Briggs

Journal of Physical Education, January-February 1940

“We Need a New Diving Board.” Discussion of
selection, installation and maintenance of diving
boards, here related to Y.M.C.A. swimming pools

The Nation’s Schools, January 1940

“Basketball Ethics for Coaches” by John J. Gallagher
10-p01nt program recommended by the Coaching

Ethics Committee. National Association of Bas-
ketball Coaches

“Technic for Mimeograph Paper” ‘by John I. Russell.
A helpful article on mimeographed papers

Parks and Recreation, January 1940
“Winter Sports in Southern Cities” by” Harold Mott

The Red Cross Courier, January 1940

“Skiing—How Patrols Protect the Devotees” by L.
M. Thompson, M.D.

Safety Education, January 1940

“Play Safe.” Safety related to the school gymnasium
and pool

Scholastic Coach, January 1940

“Planning a New Lighting System” by John T.
Bailey

"Building a Cinder Running Track” by John J.
Mundinger

“Floodlighting Survey” by Ralph A. Piper

“Kansas Basketball Evaluation Study” by V. W.
Lapp, F. C. Allen and E. R. Elbel. A systematic

     
 

No child weighs 54,000 pounds! Yet——
LOUDEN Playground Equipment lit-
tings have a guaranteed tensile
strength of 54,000 pounds per
square inch! . . . Why? Because
LOUDEN Playground Equipment must
be safe—just as it must be faultless
in design, materials, workmanship—in
every detail which insures perfect
performance! . . . That’s why
LOUDEN equipment is in praise-win-
ning use on plaY'

grounds all over the

world.

Write for our Catalogs on (I) Playground Equipment
(2) Swimming Pool Equipment (3) Tennis and Badminton
Posts, Reels, Nets and Markers! Address Dept. R-Z.

- 11
run I. E. PORTER conponarron

 

OTTAWA ir ILLINOIS

Manufacturers of the famous 'Iouden." "Chicago" and
"Spalding" lines of playground. swimming pool and gym-
nasium equipment: and of "Iunglogym" Climbing Structures.

 

 

method of rating the all-around ability of individual
players

School Activities, January 1940

“An Experiment in Creative Dramatics” by Beryl
M. Simpson

“Plan a Play Festival” by J. J. VerBeek

“Hand Puppets Enlarged” by W. M. Viola _

“A Valet Club” by Ann Ruth J. Houston. An article

on a boys’ personality clu-b

Service Bulletin, January 1940. National Section on
Women’s Athletics of the American Association for
Health, Physical Education and Recreation

“Introducing Boys and Girls to Co-Recreation” by
Eleanor W. Chamberlin

PAM PH LETS ~

Per Pupil Costs in City Schools, 1937-38, by Lula Mae
Comstock. Pamphlet No. 86. Odice of Education,
United States Department of the Interior, United
States Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.

Community Living in a Low-rent Housing Project by

Howard L. White. Federal Works Agency, United
States Housing Authority, Washington, D. C., Febru-
ary 1940

Community Theaters. Reprinted from Building Types
Section, Architectural Record

Winter Sports Round Up. United States Travel Bureau,
New York City
ANNUAL REPORTS

Bureau of Recreation, Department of Public Works.
Pittsburgh, Pa.

124 AN “ALL-PURPOSE” DANCE COSTUME

  

The Influencing
of Character

“authoritative, practical”
for all

RECREATIONAL LEADERS

BY

HUBER WILLIAM HURT. Ph.D.
5%” x 81/2 "—223 pages—$1.65

"THE MECHANICS OF
HUMAN RELATIONS"
32 pages, 4” x 6”—45c

  
   
     
    
    
 

  

 
    
 

"LIFE PLANNING
ANALYSIS CHART"

for analyzing personal
data in Guidance Work

Also

"VOCATIONAL
COMPARISON CHART"

for weighing vocations
Each —- 25c

. .
"U. S. HISTORY IN

GRAPHIC OUTLINE"
a 28” x 42" chart in
two colors ——- 50c

  
  

  

 
   
    
 

     
     
    
       
     
    
    

0
THE 1939 COLLEGE BLUE BOOK

756 pages analyzes nearly
4,000 institutions — $4.75

  
    
   
   

   

Address

THE COLLEGE BLUE BOOK

404 RIVERSIDE DRIVE
NEW YORK CITY

      
 

 
      

Long Beach, California, Recreation Commission

Playground Division, Chicago, Illinois

Mount Vernon. New York, Recreation Commission

Recreation Department, Belleville, New Jersey

Milwaukee Municipal Athletic Association

City Manager, Berkeley, California (contains report of
Recreation Department)

Bureau of Recreation, Irvington, New Jersey

Board of Recreation Commissioners. East Orange, New

Jersey . . . . . .
Public Recreation Commrssron, Cmcmnati, Ohio
Board of Park Commissioners, Hartford, Conn. (con-

tains report of Division of Recreation)

An "All-Purpose" Dance Costume

(Continued from page 82)
The same costume, by the addition of simple

accessories, is also worn in playground pageants,
pantomimes and season recitals. Does your pro—
gram call for an Indian costume? Have the chil-
dren who will represent the Indians sew red and
orange paper fringe on the bottom of the skirt
and down the sides, using big stitches that may be
quickly removed. Corn, acorns and seed make
excellent “beads”; an elaborate “feather” head-
dress is fashioned from paper and lip stick “paint”
———and there you are with a big “Whoop.” A little
Dutch girl? Just a paper apron with paper tulips
pasted on a Dutch cap of paper, and perhaps
yellow paper braids. Old Spain? A bolero of
cambric, a cardboard comb with flowers, a fan of
paper and a bright sash from some cherished scarf
at home.

Any number of ideas will be suggested by the
children and may be easily adopted for any char-
acter or occasion.

In the spring fairy tale pantomime tournament
held in Memphis last May, over 1,000 of these
costumes were worn by the children. They repre-
sented every known character in Fairyland, and
the Memphis playgrounds were truly enchanted
places with bees, butterflies, Bowers, witches,
angels, goblins, elves, dwarfs, raindrops, wind,
fire and dragons scattered about the green. But
the nicest part of the “Make Believe” was the 
fact that all the accessories had been made by the
children themselves under the supervision of the "
directors. Each child furnished the necessary
material for her own accessories, and the com-
pleted articles became her property. Many a back-
yard theater developed from this, and for weeks .
after the community center or playground pro-
gram is a thing of the past one may encounter
characters from Fairyland in almost any locality
for the children take with them into their home
the best of that which they receive on the
playground.

A SYMPOSIUM ON PLAYGROUND ACTIVITIES

A Symposium on Playground Activities
(Continued from page 103)

tions in the city. Any group may make applica-
tion to the Bureau for a 'street shower. After in—
vestigation of the site permission is given. The
Fire Department cooperates by passing judgment
as to the use of the hydrants and by demonstrat-
ing how the sprays are attached. Responsibility
for the loan is taken by one person of the peti-
tioning group; he fixes the shower and reducer on
the fire hydrant and later removes it.

Permits were issued last year by the Bureau of
Recreation of Philadelphia for the operation of
1,403 sprinklers for two one-hour periods daily
during the summer months. This involved the use
of approximately 2,800 hydrants each day. The
street showers were operated by \VPA workers,
private agencies, and private individuals.

Here Comes the Parade! The Recreation De-
partment of Salt Lake City last summer cooper-
ated with the Covered Wagon Day Committee by
conducting a children’s parade. Inaugurating the
four day celebration, children from every part of
the city presented “Around the Year with the
Playground Child.” Each playground depicted all
the activities that occurred during one particular
month. The result was novel and impressive.

A parade was again featured in the closing
event of the city’s summer playgrounds—a chil-
dren’s \Vorld Fair held at one of the parks. Each
playground had a side show of its own and
charged a penny admission. The side shows
opened at 6 :00 o’clock; at 7 :15 came the parade of
performers followed by a performance in three
rings.

The city playgrounds of Lansing, Michigan vied
with each other in providing interesting and un-
usual Hoats for their annual playground parade
last summer. The parade, sponsored by the City
Recreation Department and the Board of Educa-
tion assisted by the W PA, was over a mile in
length. It was instituted as publicity to arouse
interest in the annual playground circus the fol-
lowing week. The youngsters’ offerings in circus
and Mother Goose themes, patriotic displays, and
comedy drew laughter and favorable comments
from the thousands of spectators. Following the
high school band came the city playground “jal-
lopy,” “the craziest thing on wheels.” Floats pat-
terned on the circus theme displayed a galaxy of
clowns, elephants. a bull, a live bear and live

125

Live While You Learn
at SILVER BAY SUMMER SCHOOL

on beautiful LAKE GEORGE, N. Y.

Professional — Cultural — Recreational Courses in
Group Work. Administration, Community Analysis

Recreation laboratories include: country and folk danc-
ing; arts and crafts; marionettes; the block flute,
shepherds’ pipes; parties; swimming; archery; music.

Two Convenient Terms: July 11-31; August 1-21
For Bulletin, Address

PROF. L. K. HALL, Director
263 Alden Street, Springfield, Massachusetts

 

monkeys, and a mounted tiger with a crew of
“African” huntsmen. There was an old-fashioned
barn dance on one float; a Noah’s Ark scene,
Spanish sefioritas, a boxing scene, and a Maypole
on others. Mother Goose was represented by Old
King Cole, Little Miss Muffet, and the Pied Piper.
One playground produced an impressive entry
labeled the “peace truck” which showed the fruits
of war and peace.

Summer Recreation in Princeton
(Continued from page 108)

Community Nights. About midway in the sea—
son each playground presented a community night
program, attended by parents and friends of the
children. Many times the parents as well as the
children contributed special entertainment. The
eight-week playground season was informally
ended with picnics for all registrants. A final
community night program, held on the grounds
of the Princeton University Baseball Field, for-
mally closed the season. The three playgrounds
provided the entertainment, which consisted of
dancing, singing, and puppet shows. An exhibit
of the playground craft work was on display.
Speakers representing borough and township were
presented, and the American Legion Junior Drum
and Bugle Corps paraded. The attendance was so
great that the use of an amplifying system was
necessary.

Looking to the Future

Knowing that we must do more in the future to
meet the needs of the young men and women and
adults of the community, we are constantly trying
to improve our program. At present adults par-
ticipate in swimming and a softball league com-

 

 

 

126 HIST, THE BIG TOP!

  

   

1940 EDITION

The I940 edition contains articles and illustrations about
some of the most unusual features in the swimming pool

industry.

You'll read about artificial wave-making facilities for
swimming pools. both indoor and outdoor. large and small.

 
   
 

  

You can read "Planning The Recreational Swimming
Pool." based on the experience gained in the construction
and operation of 22 pools by a single municipality. This
ariicle has such informative chapters as "Administration
Building. Year-Around Use": "Below and Above-Ground
Pools": "Competitive Pools"; "Checking Systems": Indoor
Pools": "Ladders and Stairways": "Locating the Pool":
"General Pool Area": "Painting the Pool"; "Night Light-
ing": "Pool Guard Instructions": "Rates and Changes":
"Salary Scale": "Type of Pool": "Various Shapes": "Wa’rer
Cleaning Plant": "Maintenance": "Deck Drainage": and

other 'equally educational chapters.

Thomas K. Cureion. the foremost Aquatic writer in
America. gives a Digest of the Standards for‘ Progressive

   
  
   
  

 

 

 

  

SWIMMING POOL DATA
& REFERENCE ANNUAL

(VOLUME VIII)~

Tests in Beginning Swimming. and a Ten-Year Review of
Scien‘lii’ic Aquatic Studies.

Nathan Kaufman. Recreation Supervisor. Allegheny
County Parlzs. tells you how ‘Io s‘Iage Water Pageants.
Diving Meets. etc. He tells you what has been done. and
gives you details. with illustrations. about some of the
most successful water-pageant staging ever accomplished.
He also gives you guidance on water Games.

E. P. Wagner. whose consiruc‘lion company has built
more pools ‘Ihan any other one firm. describes "Construc-
tion of Swimming Pools."

Leo Parker. for more than ‘Iweniy years a legal authority
on the subiec‘ls. explains "How Swimming Pool Owners
May Arrange to Avoid Liability for Iniuries ‘Io Baihers."

These are iusI a few of the subiec‘ls in the I940 Edition.
You'll find it crammed with information. from cover to

    
   

   

 
 

 

  

$3.00

FORE'GN= $4-°° 425 Fourth Avenue

posed of eight teams sponsored by the Y.M.C.A.
The Board of Education has granted the use of
the eight tennis courts of the Princeton High
School as well as the school area for softball. We
are planning to use part of the field for badmin-
ton, quoits, and horseshoes, games which are pop-
ular and which afford exercise and opportunities
for social contact.

A petition for another playground was re-
ceived at the close of the past season. A survey
was taken of the district, and the results will be
studied by the playground committee.

General Summary

Our program, we believe, is based on demo-'

cratic principles, because of the active interest of
many organizations and individuals in Princeton.
If we have obtained a measure of success, it is
almost entirely due to their willingness to co-
operate. Full credit for the work belongs to these
local bodies: Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., Princeton
Borough, Princeton Township, Princeton Uni-
versity, and Princeton and Township Boards of
Education, and about twenty-Five religious, social
and fraternal organizations. The recreation pro-

'EARL K. COLLINS. Editor

Make all checks. money orders. e’rc.. payable to

SWIMMING POOL DATA

 

cover. Order today -——-Now!

FOREIGN: $4.00

     

New York. N. Y.

  

gram of playgrounds and swimming comprises the
major summer activity of the Y.M.C.A. and the
Y.W.C.A. The executive committee is composed
of members of the above organizations.

Each year we have endeavored to enlarge and
extend the scope of activities to include more
varied age groups. However, the program is not
perfect and we hope that in the future it will
continue to grow in usefulness and merit the sup—
port of the parents who say, “My children didn’t
want to leave Princeton this summer because of
the playground and swimming activities they
would miss.” '

Hist, the Big Top!

(Continued from page 94)
by the way, proved such a success that we in—
cluded it in our final evening performance. Other

numbers perhaps too subtle for children, too sim-
ple for adults were treated accordingly. In every

‘case the “punishment always fit the crime.”

The plan of the circus to summarize, was a
complete cross-section of settlement work and
settlement membership, a complete development
of individuality for the benefit of the whole.

    
 

   

Favorite Songs and Play Party Games .

From the Ritchie Family, Viper, Perry County, Ken-

tucky. Cooperative Recreation Service, Delaware,
Ohio. $.10.

THERE ARE six songs and six games with music in this
booklet which has berm made possible through the
efforts of the Ritchie family. Each evening “at the edge
Of dark” this family gathered to sing the songs Of the
Kentucky mountains. As young people Mr. and Mrs.
Ritchie loved to go to “plays” where everyone joined in
singing games. That is why this “singing family” has
helped tO preserve so many Of the traditional songs and
games of the Southern Highlands.

_ Children and the Theater

By Caroline .E. Fisher and Hazel. Glaister Robertson.
Appendix by Edith W. Ramstad. Stanford University
Press. Stanford University, California. $3.00.

THIS VOLUME, based on eight years of experience in
Palo Alto Children’s Theater, is concerned with perform-
ances by child actors for child audiences and not adult
acting for children. For this reason it has a much wider
application in educational and recreational fields and
will be Of great interest to recreation workers. It pre-
sents the technique of play participation at the level of
the child and is a practical handbook for selecting, cast-
ing. and rehearsing the play, including dressing the child
and the set, with the attendant problems. The book with
its attractive illustrations is an important contribution to
the literature on children’s theaters.

Circle Left!

Collected by Marion Holcomb Skean. Homeplace, Ary,
Kentucky. $.50.

RECREATION WORKERS will welcome this new contribu-
tion to folk play lore from the Kentucky mountains,
the purpose of which is to record a bit Of the rich folk
culture of the Kentucky mountain people—“the quaint
teasing, the boisterous chasing, the make-believing, and
the happy singing Of yOuth.” The games described by
Miss Skean have been played for generations in the
region. Some are familiar throughout the whole country;
some are peculiar to this setting. Many are definitely of
old English origin. while others are pure American folk
play. All are games Of whose origin even the old folks
know little or nothing.

More Than Mere Living

By H. Thompson Rich. Whittlesey HOuse. McGraw-
Hill Book Company, New York. $1.75. '

IN THIS BOOK the author tells how he and his family for

years have lived on a scale two or three "times their
income and have kept their bills paid. The formula?
“Ease Off on many Of the things that really don’t matter,
and bear down on a few that do.” And what has this

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

formula brought Mr. Rich and his family? Life in the
country; vagaibond vacations; a European trip; a yacht,
though not streamlined; armchair traveling, and all the.
other delightful adventures that are possible if one knows
how to get a lot out Of life on a little.

Pottery of the American Indians

By Helen E. Stiles. E. P. Dutton and Company, Inc.,
New York. $2.50.

IN THIS VOLUME the author teaches the history Of a
people through an examination Of their pottery, show-
ing how all the materials used are those most easily Ob-
tainable and how the designs interpret symbolically the
emotions, ideas, and religion of the people. She tells how
pottery is made, the tools employed, and the objects, ani-
mals, and ideas that inspire the designs. The fascinating
photographs which accompany the text cannot fail to

capture the imagination of the school children-for whom
the book is intended. '

How to Play Winning Checkers

Byis ls/Iéllard Hopper. Simon and Schuster. New York.
1. .

How MANY PEOPLE know that the game Of checkers
dates back tO the year 4000 B. C. and that the earliest
modern book on the subject was published in Valencia in
1547? These and other interesting facts about the game
appear in Mr. Hopper’s latest book written to guide the
checker amateur in the fine points of the game and to
challenge the expert to still higher strategy. As a special
feature the book contains a series of checker problems
which are puzzles in themselves. There are more than .
eighty diagrams in this interesting 'bOOk.

Bowling for Beginners

By Dorothy Sumption. Available from author, Pomerene
Hall, Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. $.40

postpaid.

.THERE IS “PRACTICAL HELP in this booklet on bowling

techniques, scoring, and the recording Of individual
scores. An enumeration Of the faults tO which beginners
are prone and a glossary of terms add to the value of the
booklet.

Recreational Research

By G. M. Gloss. O-btaina-ble from.author at Louisiana
State University, University, Louisiana. $1.00.

HE AUTHOR, rwho is Associate Professor, School of

Health, Physical Education and Recreation. Louisiana
State University, states in his preface that the material in
this book follows as the result first, of his hobby Of ob-
serving and studying various recreational projects; sec-
ond, of research done as part of the requirement for a
Doctorate project; and third, as an attempt to combine

127

128 NEW” PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

these two with extracts of the latest available materials
on the subject. The completion of his work came in con—
sequence of an invitation from Dr. Walter Monroe to
write a chapter on Recreational Research for the En—
cyclopedia of Educational Research, edited by Dr. ’Mon-
roe. Dr. Gloss has grouped his material under the fol-
lowing headings: History and Recent Trends; General
Sociological Effects: Youth and Leisure; Recreation and
Education: Public Recreation: Economic Effects: Pro-
fessional Aspects; Personal Health and Recreation.
Throughout the book he refers to a vast amount of ma-
terial—books, magazines, pamphlets, and theses. All
these references, representing a comprehensive bibliog-
raphy. are given in the final section of the Ibook. Recrea-
tion workers will find this publication of interest.

Taking the Stage.

By Charlotte Crocker. Victor A. Fields, and Will
Broomall. Pitman Publishing Corporation, New
York City. $2.50.

A book which utilizes solo acting in many fascinating
forms—elocution, storytelling, play reading, poetry por-
trayal, and lecture recital to develop personality and to
teach the techniques of acting. In the final section of this
book will be found a wealth and variety of material on
the fundamental dialects. The authors provide rich prac-

tice material and resources both for mono-acting and
dialect.

Fees and Charges for Public Recreation.

Prepared by James B. Williams and Ian Forbes.
U. S. Department of the Interior. National Park

Service. Government Printing Office, Washington,
D. C. $.40.

The National Park Service has presented in this book
a national study of policies and practices regarding the
charging of fees prepared at the request of the Ameri—
can Institute of Park Executives and with the advice of
the National Recreation Association. The findings of this
studv will be of keen interest to recreation and park
workers and all concerned with the administration of
public parks and recreation areas since this question
affects so vitally the participation of all citizens in the
benefits of recreation services.

Report of Second National Conference on the
College Training of Recreation Leaders.

FarnhamPrinting and Stationery Company, Minne-
apolIs, Minnesota. $.55.

. The Second National Conference on the College Train-
mg of Recreation Leaders was held at the University of
_North Carolina from April 27 to 29, 1939. The proceed-
Ings of the Conference, issued in printed form, contain
the reports of seven committees. The report as a whole
combines a wide variety of thinking in the field of rec-
reation Itself with a consideration of trends in the field of
college curricula for the training of recreation leaders.

American Planning and Civic Annual.

Edited by Harlean James. American Planning and
Civ1c Association. 901 UniOn Trust Building, Wash-
Ington, D. C. Free to members of the American
Planning and Civic Association; for non-members,

$3.00.

' The proceedings of a number of organizations are pth-
lished In this book: The National Conference on Plan-
ning at Boston, May, 1939; the National Conference on
State Parks at Itasca State Park, Minnesota. June, 1939;
and the Third National Park Conference of the Ameri-
can Planning and Civic Association with the National
Park OfTIcials at Santa Fe. New Mexico, in October,
1939. The papers, which record recent civic advance,
have been classified under three main headings—Plan-
ning; State Parks, and National Parks. Emphasis is

laid in'rrany of the papers on recreation as a vital con-
SIderatIon In planning.

The Administration of Health and Physical Education.
By Jesse Feiring Williams, M.D., and Clifford Lee
Brownell, Ph.D. W. B. Saunders Company, Phila-
delphia. $3.00.

Two eminent authorities show in this ‘book 'how the
administrative duties related to health and physical edu-
cation may be eerctively coordinated into a unified pro-
gram. Advice is given on many present-day problems, in-
cluding the activities for handicapped children, gym-
nasium facilities and equipment, the care and maintenance
of playgrounds and athletic fields, and intramural and

interscholastic athletics. '
To the second edition of this well-known book new

material has been added, a number of chapters have been
revised, and the entire text brought up to date.

Modern Pantomime Entertainments.
By Ef‘fa R. Preston. T. S. Denison & Company,
Chicago, Illinois. $.60.

A collection of pantomime plays and readings, shadow
picture plays and readings, and a number of pantomime

songs. Included are burlesques in prose and verse, serious

melodramas, plays and songs for holidays and special
days, and a few song and dance pantomime numbers.
Full directions for staging included. This interesting
collection would be of great help to those in need of
entertainment specialties.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIs, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlislc, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind. ,
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. MCCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTII, \Vashington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

