Recreation and Crime Prevention

OF COURSE it is not possible to prove in any exact and definite way

that the provision of playgrounds and recreation centers causes a

decrease in delinquency.

Many careful judges, probation oHicers, chiefs of police, policemen on
the beat, give it as their opinion that the establishment of playgrounds has
been followed by a decrease in delinquency. This, however, is an expres-
sion of opinion.

Many storekeepers, fruit peddlers, fathers and mothers in the home,
have said that their problems with reference to children have been les-
sened when playgrounds have been established. This, too, is a matter of

opinion rather than of scientific proof.

It is perfectly clear that any normal father or mother or school principal
interested in boys and girls, knowing how active youngsters must be, would
plan to provide space and leadership for normal play activity and would
expect disaster if no such provision were made. This is just a matter of

ordinary common sense.

Of course you cannot prove that a straight line is the shortest distance
between two points. You can cite instances where the longest way around
is the shortest way home. Yet in general we still recognize that a straight

line is the shortest distance between two points.

Even though you cannot prove mathematically that playgrounds reduce
delinquency, yet always the men and women who care most for children
will want to provide good, decent playgrounds with leadership because they
know the nature of boys and girls and that you cannot keep boys and girls
still or not provide the kind of environment they require without disaster.

Of course the real reason for playgrounds and recreation is not pre-

venting crime, disease, vice. Nearly everyone recognlzes now that 1t 1s

important to live at least a little before you die.

Fishes do better in water and birds are not quite normal when they do
not have plenty of air in which to fly, and children are that kind of animal

which must have a place and opportunity for play.

W @WW

 

F E B R U A R Y, l9 40 a, up; .   

 

593

February

Por’rland's golf course in win’rer will be
converl'ed info a lively spor’rs cen’rer
when ’rhe Park Commission erec’rs a
’roboggan slide and provides a ska’r-
ing pond. The rolling lerrain
makes skiing possible.

  
 
 
  

hr ,,- d...

Courtesy Portland, Mai-Me, Municipal Activities, 1938

594

And Now It’s Winter Sports Time Again!

“So let it snow, let it blow! Let it be cold and crisp! Six months of winter
with its three feet of snow hold no terror for us now. It means lots of fun,
exercise and recreation. No longer do we Americans have to take our recre-
ation ‘sitting down’—unless it be while skating on the ice or skiing on the
snow!” This year, as for the past few years, skiing has been very much to the
fore,so in the articles presented here emphasis is laid on this challenging sport.

The Growth oi Winter Sports

By MILO F. CHRISTIANSEN

ter sports facilities, attention must be focused

on the work of the National Park Service, the
United States Forest Service, the Civilian Conser—
vation Corps, and other federal agencies. In the
western sections of the United States, many of
the most desirable places for outdoor activity are
on federal land. In many places, too, otherwise
suitable areas are inaccessible or too far removed
from the using public.
Thus a more careful

I N TAKING STOCK of existing and potential win-

The plate. glass fronted lodge at the base of the
ski run. Hyde State Park. near Santa Fe. New Mexico

study had to be made to determine which of the
desirable areas would be used, if developed.
Probably the two most popular forms of win-
ter sports are skiing and skating. Both have be—
come exceedingly popular within the last six or
seven years. Organized skiing as a sport in this
country is about hfty years old, but it never had
general popular appeal until about six or seven
years ago. It was limited naturally on the one
hand by terrain and climate; and it was limited
also by an indifferent public. Previously jumping
and tournament events were the newsreel camera-
men’s delight, but the breath-taking nature of
jumping left John Public with the impression that
skis were dangerous im-
plements. There were

 

Courtesy National Park Service

595

THE GROWTH OF WINTER SPORTS

numerous skiers in the mountains of New Eng-
land, the hilly regions of the North Middlewest,
and the high snow fields of the West. But the
beginning of the new ski era in this country can
be set at about 1931-32, the year of the winter
Olympics at Lake Placid, New York. In the fol.-
lowing years skiing and other winter sports won
thousands of converts. These new converts de-
manded and got increased sports facilities. Many
summer hotels in the mountains began to stay
open throughout the winter. Winter inns and
hotels were constructed. Snow train and snow

plane services were started.

The number of ski addicts in the United States‘

is unknown, but those numbers can be imagined
from the fact that in Seattle alone there are re-
ported to be between twenty and thirty thousand.
Many of our skiers may be only “meadow ski-

ing,” or you may see them

turn around on, rural boys and girls have felt the
joy of gliding along, with winter winds a-blow-
ing. In some cities, youths have used garden hose
to flood vacant lots and fields, and then waited for
freezing weather. Cities like Minneapolis, St.
Paul, Milwaukee, and Newton, Massachusetts,
have for many years done much to provide skat-
ing rinks in their parks and on the playgrounds.
Skating. and ski tournaments and contests have
played an integral part in numerous winter sports
carnivals conducted through the Midwest during
the past twenty years.

Many Americans have never seen an ice rink,
nor owned a pair of ice skates. They may have
heard Grandad, who was reared “back east,” or “up
north,” tell of the fun he had as a boy; of some
of his adventures on “rubber,” or thin ice. But
times have changed since Grandpa’s heyday.

Mechanical refrigeration,

at some more hazardous
place, poised to leap off a
bank or short slope. If
there are hills within easy
distance, these skiers may
spend a weekend in the
country, stopping in a
farmhouse, tourist home,
or cabin. If they have bet-
ter than average economic
resources, they may go to
more remote and expen-

We are presenting extracts from an arti- -

cle appearing in the January I940 issue
of the Quarterly published in Santa FeI
New Mexico. by Region III of the National
Park Service. Mr. ChristiansenI who has
had experience in conducting recreation
programs in New York. Minnesota. and
other large centers. is now Supervisor of
the Recreational Area Planning Division of
Region III of the National Park Service
embracing the states of Arizona. Arkansas.
New Mexico. Oklahoma. Texas. and the south-
ern parts of Colorado. Nevada and Utah.

the movies, and the much-
publicized ice shows have
made the entire country
skating conscious. New
contrivances have made
skating rinks possible in
any climate at any time of
the year. Ice hockey, which
has been called the fastest
game in the world, has also
done considerable to stim-
ulate interest in skating.

sive winter resorts: From

the East, to Lake Placid and the inns of the Adir-
ondacks, Berkshires, and White Mountains; from
the Middle West, to the Rockies; and from the
West coast, to Mount Rainier, Lassen, and Y0-
semite National Parks. There are ski or winter
sports clubs in almost every western college and
in many cities and towns. Many employers and
employes vacation in winter instead of in summer.
You will find stenographers, clerks, lawyers, busi-
nessmen and housewives “bitten by the bug.” For
many years, New York State’s Bear Mountain
Park, one of the most popular public areas in the
East, has provided facilities and equipment for
thousands of winter sports addicts.

Until the last few years there have been more
skaters than skiers. Skating, in a sense, is like
swimming or riding a bicycle; once you acquire
the technique, you never forget it. On the frozen
ponds and rivers of New England; on the lakes
and bays of the north Midwestern states, or
wherever there is a body of ice large enough to

It is estimated that about
17,000 pairs of rocker, or figure skates, were sold
in this country in 1938, in addition to about a
quarter of a million tube skates.

Thousands of persons neither skate nor ski yet
derive enjoyment from tobogganing, coasting,
snowshoeing, ice boating, or possibly hiking in
the snow. The most significant fact is that the
individual derives a certain satisfaction from
whatever he or she does. This effort, in many
cases, is for exercise, but generally it is for good
wholesome fun. Those who plan winter sports
facilities for this new group of recreationists must
recognize that everyone does not like to do the
same thing. A variety of winter sports, recreation
opportunities and facilities multiplies the indi-
vidual’s interest and participation.

The Southwest has shown increased interest in
winter sports activity. Winter sports clubs and
other forms of group organizations have sprung
up in many communities. Membership in these
groups is usually open to the public, upon pay-

THE GROWTH OF WINTER SPORTS 597

ment of a small fee. Meetings are held to
promote interest in development of new
facilities, raising funds for ski tows, mak-
ing areas more accessible by improving
and keeping roads cleared of snow, or
organizing contests and tournaments. Oc—
casional parties and other social events
are planned. In the Santa Fe of four
years ago there was no winter sports
club; there were no skiing or coasting
facilities except on a very small scale. At-
tempts had been made periodically to con-
struct a skating rink. A handful of ski
enthusiasts organized a winter sports club.
Interest spread. The National Park Ser—
vice and the State Park Board developed
a ski run and ski held in Hyde State Park,
seven miles from Santa Fe, in the Sangre
de Cristo Mountains. The work was done
by the Civilian Conservation Corps. Use
became so extensive that the field was
extended. The CCC now is completing a
plate glass fronted lodge, facing the ski
area. The lodge has three lounges, each
with fireplace. There are toilets, lockers,
a lunch room, and a combination room
that can be used for first aid and for ski—
waxing. There is a flagstone terrace immediately
in front of the building, with seating accommoda—
tions for 200 people. This terrace is enclosed by a
guardrail, at the base of the ski run. The lodge
will be for year—round use.

A permanent ski tow also is being installed.
The \Vinter Sports Club contributed approxi-
mately $1,300 to the State Park Board toward the
purchase and installation of this equipment. The
tow, like all other facilities in the park, is for
general public use.

Only sixty miles away, in Albuquerque, is an-
other enthusiastic winter sports organization. Ex-
cellent skiing facilities have been developed by
the United States Forest Service in the nearby
Sandia Mountains. The Forest Service also has
developed winter sports facilities in other New
Mexico areas, such as near Taos, Ruidoso, and
Las Vegas; and near Flagstaff, Arizona. Less
than 300 miles south of Flagstaff, and only six
hours away by automobile, are hundreds of sea—
sonal residents and tourists who spend the winter
“summering” near Tucson and Phoenix where
oranges and grapefruit are being harvested. This

short distance between the irrigated desert coun-
try, with its citrus fruits, and the snow covered

 

Courtesy U. 5'. Forest Service

mountain area with its winter sports, provides an
interesting contrast to Southwest life.

The idea of snow sports in California comes to
many recreation enthusiasts with a bit of surprise.
This “Sunshine State” does not, in one’s imagina—
tion, lend itself to such developments as ski huts,
snow trains, and an American St. Moritz. But
there are snow covered mountain ranges over a mile
high in both Northern and Southern California,
and many winter sports areas have been developed.

Skiing in the Rockies

By RAYMOND E. PHILLIPS

Regional Recreation Planner
Rocky Mountain Region
U. 5. Forest Service

xnxo Dowx the slopes of the Rockies has
S taken its place as one of the major attractions
to recreationists. N 0 longer are these great moun-
tains to be viewed and enjoyed only by summer
visitors, campers, and sportsmen, for now “King
“7 inter” has found a medium by which he too can

598 SKIING IN THE ROCKIES

lure many thousands to the peaks and slopes after
they have taken on a mantle of white.

Ski courses, ski trails, ski runs and all the at-
tendant developments and facilities have had
mushroom growth in the past three years, and the
peak is not yet in sight, for new converts, enthu-
siasts or by whatever name one chooses to corre-
late this type of user, are being made every week
of the five month or more winter sports season.

Three years ago one could count the winter rec-
reation centers of this vicinity on the fingers of
one hand; today these areas are available at sites
only influenced by slope, texture of snow and ac-
cessibility. Railroads have found it a profitable
business to run ski trains to more distant points.
And surely no one will deny the boom this activity
has been to clothiers and sports equipment
establishments.

All of the important ski areas in the Rocky
Mountain Region are in national forests, and con-
siderable work has been done by the Forest Ser-
vice in planning out, improving and assisting in
the organization of ski patrols who have the re-
sponsibility of keeping order and rendering first
aid when necessary on the areas. Shelters, sani—
tary facilities, ski tows have been installed as
rapidly as opportunity and finances permit.
Weekly reports of snow conditions on the several
ski areas are sent to Denver by local forest rang-
ers, there assembled and presented as public in—
formation by radio and newspapers. The public is
thus informed of the amount and character of the
snow, and of temperature, wind, and road
conditions.

While everything possible is being done by pub-
lic agencies to provide recreational outlets for the
public, they, in turn, have not always contributed
their proportional share in assisting the orderly
maintenance of facilities. This is no new prob—
lem, but one in which every user can contribute
by practicing consideration for his fellow in sport.
In respect to scarring of public property there is
one good factor in favor of the winter sports, and
that is the heavier clothing and mittens makes
carving of initials practically negligible.

Skiing and other winter
sports add much to the well-
being of our people, for en-
vironment, fresh air and stimu-
lating exertion rebuild the in-
dividual in one of the most
normal and satisfactory ways
yet evolved. Skiing down the

Miss Schofield tells of the activities
of the Ski Patrols who. through rescue
caches and with toboggans equipped
with first aid supplies, are constantly
on the alert to protect the thousands
of winter sports enthusiasts who each
day hie to the mountains for their fun.

slopes of the Continental Divide contributes its
share to the rehabilitation of American citizens
and furnishes an experience to be repeated as
often as opportunity permits and to be long
remembered.

Ski Patrols

By JESSIE SCHOFIELD
Superintendent of Public Recreation

Salt Lake City. Utah

IIEN THE “Ski Heils” are heard floating down

Utah’s ski slopes this winter, and the moun-
tians are filled with enthusiasts gliding over pow—
dery slopes on two slats of wood, skiers will be
happy in the knowledge that the Salt Lake Ski
Patrol will be active once again. Organized last
year with members of various ski clubs, the
Patrol is affiliated with the Rocky Mountain Di—
vision and the National Ski Patrol.

The National Ski Patrol is an organization of
skiers, for skiers. It does not mean the policing
of hills or of winter sport enthusiasts in their
ever increasing numbers; nor does it mean a band
of grim, silent stretcher bearers waiting for some-
one to be hurt. It isn’t a badge whose pink—
faced wearer prophesies dire misfortune to non-
stemmers.

It is a national organization of skiers, headed
by a national committee of skiers, all of whom are
thoroughly trained in first aid, picked for their
ability as skiers, as competent men in an emer-
gency, and thoroughly imbued with the desire to
advance skiing in safety. These men are Na—
tional Ski Patrolmen——the men one meets on the
ski slopes whose advice can be trusted, whether
on the danger of snowslides or prevention of
sunburn.

Competitive skiers for some time have been
well taken care of. Organized ski meets have
safety units but little has been done for the aver-
age skierd-for you and me—for the great mass
of enthusiasts who have given
rise to the increased interest
in winter sports throughout
the country and for whom
recreational skiing has come
into being.

Ski Patrols are well known

(Continued on page 638)

What About the Bulletin Board?

BULLETIN board
A adds materially

to the efficiency
of the modern phy-
sical education de-
partment. A well-kept
and timely bulletin
board is a medium
for interesting stu-
dents, for attracting
and keeping their at-
tention. Used con-
structively, it is a
positive aid to teach-
ing. The following
outline presents sug-
gestions for its general appear-
ance, content, and construction.

General Appearance—
Mechanical Details of
Arrangement

The bulletin board should be attractive enough
to hold the attention.

It should not have too much on it. Many ideas
at once are not grasped.

The material should be arranged according to
some definite plan. The bulletin board should not
contain just a number of unrelated articles; it
should be treated as a unit.

While the bulletin board serves a utilitarian pur-
pose, a definite effort should be made to keep it
artistic.

Not too many colors should be used at once;

'those selected should harmonize.

Keep a balance of emphasis.

The margin at the bottom of the board should
be larger than that at the top. Equal margins re—
sult in a top-heavy feeling.

All lettering or printing
should be large enough so that
its message can be read easily.
Lettering should be correct,
simple and neat.

Content

An exhibit of sketches rep-
resenting the different activi-

 

By AILEENE LOCKHART
Mary Hardin-Baylor College

Belton, Texas

This article has been reprinted from
"Service Bulletin," periodical publica-
tion of the National Section on Wom- For
en's Athleticsl November I939. Al-
though the suggestions have been pre-
pared primarily for the use of physi-
cal directorsI they will be equally
helpful to recreation workers for use
in the construction of bulletin boards
at recreation centers and playgrounds.

ties included in the
physical education
program makes an
attractive bulletin
board. This is one
way of broadening
students’ recreational
interests and stimu—
lating interest in the
intramural program.

An attractive board
can be centered
around a single ac-
tivity, for example,
folk dancing. The
costumes of various
dances make a colorful display.
A paper doll collection may
show national and historic cos-
tumes. Paper dolls dressed to
represent the various countries
are unusual; students enjoy
making these for the bulletin board.

Action stick figures may be drawn to illustrate
points of sport technique. Stick figures may also
be used to show dance design.

Miniature fields correctly marked off attract at-
tention. For example, a small soccer field can be
 lined off on green blotter paper; adhesive tape

makes good lines. Different colored thumb tacks
may be used to represent the two teams. The
l teams are then correctly lined up for a given play,
i e. g. the corner kick. A brief typed eXplanation is
i used to point out points of technique. The forma-

 

 

tions and explanations can be changed from day

to day. Miniature fields posted on the bulletin
F board may also be used for other sports in this
L same manner at the appropriate times.

The opportunities provided
by occasional events and holi-
days should not be overlooked.
example, the visit of
Helen Wills to a city presents
an opportunity for a bulletin
board on tennis. When other
school departments are stress-
ing internationalism, the phy—
sical education bulletin board

599

600 W'HAT ABOUT THE BULLETIN BOARD?

might illustrate “Sports in Other Lands,” “Folk
Dances Around the World,” or similar themes.
A series of posters and articles might represent
“Sports and Dances of England,” “Sports and
Dances of the Scandinavian Countries.”

A series of brief articles on “Who’s Who in the
Sports \Vorld” acquaints its readers with the out-
standing personalities in the various sports. A
“VVho’s Who in Physical Education” can be used
if the students are sufficiently advanced for this.

An attractive bulletin board can be made in the
following way. The entire board is covered with
black construction paper. A design, e. g. a dance
figure, is drawn on the paper in White. Material
on some phase of rhythms is then posted on the
board, the dance figure serving merely as an in-
teresting background. A board devoted to sports
could be made in a similar manner by using a
sports figure on a colored background.

Hints

Change the material on the bulletin board often.

Use the artistic ability of the students. They
have a great deal of interest in something which
is actually to be used.

The time and trouble that it takes to make a
sort of budget or schedule for bulletin boards, is
well repaid. Such forethought makes possible a
series of bulletin boards which are informative
because of their continuity. The boards are
changed more regularly if a definite plan has been
made.

Sports should be given prominence in season;
timeliness means a great deal.

Use student suggestions. If there is a poster
committee in each class, a fair distribution of the
work and benefits derived from Working on the
bulletin board will result. Different classes can be
responsible for the board for different weeks.
Competition between classes adds to the interest
when students are in charge but this stimulation is
not usually necessary.

If the bulletin board is cleared for a day before
it is arranged again, interest in it is heightened.
If it is arranged While the majority of students
are away, interest is keener.

A question such as “Have you read this?” or

“Have you seen this?” above an article or picture
focusses attention on it.

Construction

Three ply wood covered with neutral colored
blotter paper makes an inexpensive board and one

that will not warp. The blotter paper can be
changed thereby changing the color of the bulletin

board.
Other boards can be made of celotex and bea-

verboard.
A cork base board is excellent but more

expensive.

Burlap weighted at the top and bottom with a
one inch board can be hung like an unrolled scroll.
Material has to be pinned to the burlap. Such a
bulletin board can be made very artistic.

A very useful board can be made by glueing
two thicknesses of heavy corrugated cardboard
together. The ribs of one piece should run hori-
zontally while those of the other run vertically;
this produces a stronger board. After these pieces
have been glued, the front of the board is cov—
ered with blotter paper and the edges are bound
with paper, gummed tape or oilcloth.

If an old picture frame of the proper size is
available, another bulletin board can be improvised.
Sometimes these frames can be obtained at a
nominal sum from a second hand dealer. A back-
ing of beaverboard, pine board, or cardboard (as
suggested above) is inserted into the frame. The
frame when polished and hung makes an attrac-
tive bulletin board.

An inexpensive board can be made of mason—
ite. A half-inch thickness is recommended. Its
appearance is improved if the masonite is framed
or if its edges are bound.

A wood-backed cork linoleum bulletin board
makes a more permanent piece of equipment. Its
initial cost however is more.

A useful size for the bulletin board is three by
tive feet.

A smaller one should be in each game room.
Perhaps movable boards are the most desirable
for a physical education department.

A recreation worker writes: “Every park, play-
ground and other type of recreation center should
have a bulletin board, and this board must reach
the audience for which it is prepared if it is to
have any value. The location of the board is im—
portant. It should be at the center of the traffic
flow or activities of the group to which it is
addressed. It should be timely, advertising pres-
ent and coming events, and it must be kept up
to date. Another factor, that of interest, is in
reality a combination of timeliness along with a
review of past events to which has been added
Showmanship and color.”

Turn Conventions Inside Out!

EAP YEAR happens only once in four
L years, and it’s a grand occasion
for a unique party in which
everything is topsy turvy. It might be
planned for any day of any month,
but the twenty—ninth of February is
especially appropriate, since that’s the
date responsible for Leap Year and
its customs.

Invitations That Are Different

Sending out invitations is a more complicated
matter than for the usual party. Give each girl a
verbal invitation and ask her to name the man she
would like to escort. Then send out written invi-
tations to the girls and to the men they have
chosen. The men’s invitation might read like this:

To turn conventions inside out is Leap Year’s one
command

For at this time young ladies all may ask the boy
friend’s hand.

\Vhen everything is turned about and backwards on
this date,

Come celebrate one night with us in topsy turvy
state.

It is the girl’s prerOgative to take a man that night,
So you must wait at home until your escort comes
in sight.
By changing the last line, the rest of the verse
is appropriate for the girls, too. Their last line
would say:

“So call for him when you start out if you
would do it right.”

By using this method of inviting the guests, a
man won’t know who his escort is until the girl
rings his door bell.

The verse could be written on a white card,
backwards or upside down if you choose, and i1-
lustrated by a stick figure girl proposing to a stick
figure man.

Decorations, Too, Are Topsy Turvy

The party decorations are left up to your in-
genuity. Cha’irs may be turned facing the wall
and pictures may be hung backwards, but other
effects are less obvious and at the same time fun-
nier. Imagine a guest’s surprise when he dis-
covers that the supposed bowl of flowers on a
table is a small saucepan containing artistically
arranged parsley! String lines of pots and pans

Once more Leap Year is with
us! Many time-honored con-
ventions will be cast aside
and old customs turned topsy
turvy. Make the most of it
when you plan a party!

By MARION E. GODSHALL
National Recreation Association

   

and kitchen uten-
sils in conspicuous
places. The dustpan
and brush will make
a fetching decora-
tion for the man-
tel. More sugges-
tions for ludicrous
effects are included under the game, Topsy
Turvy Hunt.

Some of the men undoubtedly will really get
into the swing of the party before it starts. They
and their slightly disgruntled “escorts” will ar-
rive a bit late, the girls relating that they waited
fifteen minutes while the gentlemen of their choice
linished dressing! Remind them that turn about’s
fair play!

Then the girls go to their dressing room and
find only a man’s brush and comb on the dresser
and a small mirror hung over it. These instruc-
tions are prominently displayed:

Be very polite to the gentlemen
Get chairs for them

See that they do not sit in draughts
Fan them frequently

In every way show them deference and care

The men, on the other hand, have found a room
with a dressing table and several mirrors. On the
table are powder puffs, cosmetics, beauty aids,
brushes, combs, and other toilet articles. These
are their rules for the evening:

Do not go to any trouble for any lady present
Sit on any chair you see a girl planning to take
Ask your partner to bring you a glass of water
Ask her to pick up your handkerchief

Give her every possible opportunity to wait on you

The Party Is On

After leaving the dressing rooms, everyone
joins in the first game, a pencil and paper game

601

602 TURN CONVENTIONS INSIDE OUT!

which newcomers can enter as they arrive. Place
enough pencils and paper on a table and tell the
girls that they must get pencils and paper for
themselves and for their escorts, in accordance

with the rules for the evening.

Look and See. If possible, it would be a good'

idea to incorporate the items mentioned in this
game in the decorative scheme. The guests may
work in couples; in this case the girls would hunt
for the articles while the men sit back in comfort,
giving directions and writing out answers. The
only rule is that the searchers must not give away
the location of the articles (all in plain sight);
instead, as the girls discover them, they tell their
partners, who write down the answers. These are
the items which the amateur sleuths are to detect:

Hidden tears: onion

Her first beau: hair ribbon

A drive through the wood: a nail partially driven
into a small block of wood

The flower of the family: flour

A broken heart: broken candy heart

A worn traveler: an old shoe

An ancient water carrier: a broken pitcher

My own native land: box of dirt

Light of other days: candle

Swimming match: match in pan of water

Four seasons: salt, pepper, mustard, cinnamon
Ruins of China: broken dish

The party theme makes it appropriate to give
the prizes intended for women to men, and vice
versa. At the end of the party, in a grand barter
session, the prize winners trade back and forth in
order to get the articles they want.

Partner Finders. It should be as obvious as pos-
sible that the girls are the “hunters” for the eve-
ning, so partner finders are all important. The
guests might match torn hearts, old sayings, or
famous lovers, but the girls must always look for
their partners while the men remain seated.

Verses may be used for matching partners.
Give red hearts to the men and white to the girls.
On each red heart is written a letter of the alpha—
bet, and on the white a corresponding verse, such
as one of the following:

Don’t wait for him, go while ’tis day, go search him out:
he has an A.

A B with pretty waving hair is buzzing for you every-
where.

His smiling eyes your charm will be. His heart contains
the letter C.

If he is homely don’t blame me. I’ve marked his heart
with letter D.

He’s nothing to brag of as you will see. I’ve tagged him
with the letter E.

He is not foolish; he has some sense left. He holds a
heart with letter F.

He may frighten you as he did me; his homely majesty
I’ve marked with G.

Now, my young girl, don’t pass him by, he’s a fine young
man with the letter I.

To the pretty boy please don’t say nay, he’s looking for
the letter J.

Go find his lordship, homage pay, he has a heart marked
with a K.*

Spinning for partners is another method. Write
the names of the men on the outer edge of a card-
board circle, and place an arrow on a pin in the
center. Each girl spins the arrow and claims her
partner by the name at which the arrow stops. If
the man has already been claimed, she spins again.

If the girls are to go flshing for a partner, cut
out celluloid hearts and punch a small hole in each
one. Each heart bears the name of a man on the
under side. The girls fish with rod, line, and pin
hook for these hearts as they float on the sur-
face of the water in a tub. The heart contains the
name of their partner for the next game.

The Games

Now for the games.

Beauty Contest. Provide cream, face powder,
powder puff, rouge, lipstick, and eyebrow pencils
on a central table. Keep two couples out of the
contest to act as judges. Allow ten minutes for

each man to make up his partner as he thinks it
should be done.

I'll Marry You It You Can. . . Give each person a
numbered slip bearing the name of some occupa-
tion. A number is called, and the person holding it
stands up. If it is a man, the girls chorus “I’ll
marry you if you can. . .” and the man completes
the sentence according to the occupation written
on his paper, “. . . Mix bread.” He demonstrates
for the approval of the group whether or not he can
mix bread by pantomime actions. When a girl is
called, the men repeat the key words, and the girl
shows in pantomime how well she can do some—
thing, such as mow the lawn. Men might be
called upon to wash clothes, iron, embroider, knit,
sweep, cook. Ask the ladies to tie a necktie, make
a furnace fire, repair a radio, saw wood.

 

* Bulletin Leap Year Parties by Ruth Trappc and AliCc Hunter
Haffcy. Washington Bureau, Washington, D. C.

TURN CONVENTIONS INSIDE OUT! 603

My Sweetheart. Seat all
of the guests but one girl in
a circle. The extra player
goes to a man and kneels
before him saying, “I love
you.” The man thus ad-
dressed must stroke the
head of the kneeling girl
and say, “My sweetheart,”
without smiling or laugh-
ing. If the humor in the
situation is too much for
him, the two must change places, and the man
must find a girl to tell of his love. If he does
not smile, however, the kneeler may repeat the
statement twice, requiring an answer and a pat on
the head each time. Then he must try elsewhere.
A bit of dramatic supplication and a love-lorn
expression will usually bring a smile, especially
when the others in the circle are convulsed with
laughter.

Hide in Sight. Instead of finding a place to hide
about the house, the players sit quietly in their
chairs and mentally hide anywhere in the room.
The person who is It selects a place to hide—in
the flowerpot on the table, for example—and by
questions which can be answered ,by “Yes” or
“No,” the others try to discover where he is hid-
ing. The one who guesses correctly becomes It,

and the game continues.

Topsy Turvy Blind Man's Buff. Every player ex-
cept one is blindfolded. The job of that player is
to stay out of the way of the blindfolded players
who wander about the room, challenging any-
one they touch. They say, “Blindfolded ?” and
if the player replies in the affirmative, he is freed.
If the extra player is caught and challenged, he is
blindfolded in place of the one who caught him.

Black Art. By the end of the last game, the play-
ers will be used to being in the dark. Give each of
them a pencil, paper, and support on which to
write. Turn out the lights, and ask them to draw
a seated stick figure man. After the artists have
lifted their pencils, have them draw the figure of
a girl proposing to the man. When they have
lifted the pencils the second time, ask them to add
a blue bird for happiness, a good luck sign, and
what the man said. If you don’t think this is a
topsy turvy game, just look at the “artistic”

endeavors !

What's Wrong With This Picture? It wouldn’t
be a topsy turvy party without a pointless game.

 

Each player receives a clean
sheet of paper and writes
on it all the things that are
wrong in the picture dis-
played before him. After
the guests have written
down all of the errors, tell

them the truth. Noth-
a U ing is wrong with the
f" ' a  picture at all!

Topsy Turvy Hunt.
On another piece of
paper the guests write down any topsy turvy thing
about the room. These things, of course, are really
part of the decorations. The hunting could be done
in couples as in “Look and See,” after each girl
has selected a new partner. The searchers might
find a tape measure tying back a window curtain,
a cook book among the books on a shelf, a scrap
basket holding a plant, a rubber bathroom mat for

a rug, candlesticks for bookends, a tea towel for
a table runner.

Leap Year Message. Each girl finds a new part-
ner, and two couples volunteer to act as judges.
Every twosome receives a white envelope contain-
ing a pair of small scissors and six magazine ads.
\Nith this equipment, each couple forms a love
letter or telegram, using only such words as can
be cut from the advertisement. No mutilation of
words is allowed. The chosen words are pasted
on the envelope after paste pots have been dis-
tributed, and the judges have the last say.

PrOposaI Relay. Of course the girls must have
a chance to propose during Leap Year. The girls
and men each form separate lines, side by side,
facing two sheets of paper at the other end of the
room. The leader of each team runs up to his or
her sheet of paper. The girl writes down the first
word of a proposal, and the man writes down the
first word of a sentence which is to be an ac-
ceptance. The second player adds another word
to his or her sentence. The last player in each
line completes the sentence by adding one word,
and the first team finished is the winner.

Sir Walter Raleigh Race. Again the girls select
new partners. The men line up behind a starting
line or in two teams if the group is large. At the
starting signal, each lady places two pieces of
cardboard on the ground where she expects her
partner to step. At each step forward, she re-
moves the rear cardboard and places it in front
of him. In this manner, the man advances to the

604 TURN CONVENTIONS INSIDE OUT!

goal line. The first man or first line finished is the
winner. The cardboard pieces should be about
10 x12 and the man is not allowed to step off
them.

Elopement Relay. Two rows of couples are
formed. Each line has an umbrella and a suitcase
in which are a loose coat and a woman’s hat. At
the word “Go,” the head girls put up the um—
brella, pick up the suitcase, and, sheltering them—
selves and their partners, run to the other end of
the room. The girls close the umbrella, open the
suitcase, and help the men into the hats and coats.
Then they help them take off these garments, re—
place them in the suitcase and pick up the closed
umbrella and suitcase. They return to touch off
the second couples. The first row finished is the
Winner.

Stealing a Heart. This is a relay race, and the
first person in each line receives a clothespin and
a small heart cut out of heavy red paper. He
balances the “stolen heart” on the top of the
clothespin, as he runs to the goal line—but he
must run backwards. If he drops the heart, he
must stop, pick it up, and replace it on the clothes-
pin before he can continue. When he reaches the
goal, he takes the heart off the clothespin and runs
back to give it to the second person in line. The
team to finish first will be elated—until they learn
that because this is a topsy turvy party, the ones
who finish last are the winners!

Matrimonial Qualifications. Announce that the
girls will take no chances in this open season to
snare the elusive male. They want to pick a good
husband, so the men at the party must go through
a qualifications test. Give every man a needle,
thread, and a small patch. He must take off his
coat, thread the needle, and sew the patch to his
coat sleeve with at least ten stitches. The women
judge the man with the “best qualifications.” After
the decision has been made, the men must have a
chance to criticize, too. Give each girl a block of
wood, a nail, and a hammer. She is to hammer the
nail straight through the block of wood, and this
time the men judge.

Whirling Dervish. The couple winning the last
game must demonstrate their qualifications more
fully by testing their “stability.” The man receives
an ordinary clothes hanger, which he holds in his
left hand. He crosses his arms with his left arm
over his right. He grasps his left ear with his
right hand. Holding the hanger by one end, he
places the other end on the floor. The girl re-

ceives a clothes hanger and makes the same prepa-
rations. At the signal, the players whirl the hang-
ers around fifteen times, not allowing the one end
to leave the floor. They then stand erect, walk
rapidly toward each other and shake hands. If
they succeed in getting together immediately, it
will be amazing.

A Matter of Balance. Ask for a volunteer to
take this test. Place a handkerchief on the floor,
standing in as much of a cone shape as possible.
A pie tin is placed on the head of the player, rim
facing down, and an orange is balanced on the tin.
The demonstrator then gets down on his knees,
picks up the handkerchief with his teeth and bal-
ances the orange on the pie tin at the same time.

Name It. During Leap Year especially, every-
one should be able to classify hearts at a glance.
Let your guests try it in this “before refresh—
ments” pencil and paper game. Ask them to name

the different kinds of hearts displayed on a table:

Heart cut from sandpaper: tough heart

Card-board heart covered with cotton batting: soft heart

Heart cut from red flannel: warm heart

Heart cut from metal: hard heart

Tissue paper heart with feather pasted down on it: light
heart ‘

Huge paper heart: big heart

Blue cardboard heart: sad heart

Candy heart: sweetheart

Leap Year Auction Sale. Cover the men one by
one with a large sheet thrown over their head and
covering their feet. Bring them in one at a time
to be sold as partners for refreshments. Each
girl has been given a quantity of little paper
hearts before the auction and she bids as high
as she cares for a covered figure.

A novel way to serve refreshments is to pack
enough for two in a small box. Wrap each article
in waxed paper and tie the box with red ribbon.
Let each set of partners sit together and eat the
refreshments picnic fashion. Each box might
contain two minced ham sandwiches, two cheese
sandwiches, four small sweet pickles, bananas, '
fancy cakes, and some salted peanuts and mints.
If ice cream is served, insist that the partners eat
with spoons tied together with a string nine inches

long.

Then, after bartering unwelcome prizes, the
guests will be ready to leave. And probably, al-
though both men and girls enjoyed gathering to I
“celebrate one night in topsy turvy state,” each
one will be glad to get back to his or her normal
role!

H mumw_-— ._——- —_
-w.- .“ - -J—p—nq—VH—m

A Lasting Spring

0U WOULD expect an April

festival to celebrate the

Spring. Even in the crowded
sections of a city there are signs.
in backyards and alleys if no-
where else, of fresh, expanding
life new as anything can be, yet
as old as the first sun. There it
is, blooming again and brightly and generously as
ever. And it stirs in us also, even in the oldest of
us, and has blossomed in song, dance, poetry,
play-acting and in as varied a creation of shapes
and colors on canvas and in wood, clay, textiles
and other materials as nature herself has brought
into being. We feel close kinship to her in the
Springtime, as though this life in nature and in
ourselves Were one. That such signs of fresh,
expanding vitality in us are not confined to the
Springtime, but are seasonable at all times of the
year, only practices and deepens the more this
feeling of kinship.

It is quite appropriate, therefore, that when a
large group of workers from Boston’s settlements
were gathered recently to consider having a Spring
festival, they decided to celebrate these year—round
blossomings of human nature as well as the
Springtime blooms of nature. The group in—
cluded specialists in music, folk dancing, drama
and crafts as well as more general workers. Three
purposes were stated. One, to give opportunity
to participants in these activities to vfind keener
enjoyment and fuller social meaning in them by
bringing them into a significant festival; that is,
primarily, to enjoy still more what they are al-
ready doing. Secondly, to have the festival so
designed as to serve as an incentive for carrying
on the beloved activities with a more ardent care
for doing them very well, and for entering into
additional or more substantial and rewarding
songs, dances and craft or
dramatic activities than might
otherwise be done. Thirdly,
to attract more people into
such activities. There is
special interest in attracting
more adolescents into the set-
tlement program.

In each Spring of the pre-
ceding five years the settle—

Some suggestionstor an
April or May Festival

By A. D. ZANZIG

National Recreation Association

At the risk of seeming prematureI as Feb-
ruary's snows fall and its winds howll we
are publishing the outline of the Spring
Festival which is being planned for pre-
sentation by twenty-six settlement houses
of Boston. It is our hope that its publi-
cation at this early date will make it pos—
sible for other organizations which may be
planning similar events to profit by the
suggestions offered by the Boston group.

ments had had a gratifying song
festival, and the music special—
ists themselves who had been in
charge of these festivals wanted
these broader purposes because
of the opportunities they give to
enrich the musical interest by
integrating it more fully into
the whole program of settlement activities. They
also wanted more of the festive spirit through
having the audience participate also.

During the two morning hours of the meeting
we had tried out two other ideas for the festival.
One was the giving of a musical play or operetta
which would call for the various kinds of activi-
ties. Another was a typical Spring festival em-
phasizing the Springtime customs of the various
national groups represented in the settlements.
But the idea of having a setting like that of a fair
within which all could take part in celebrating the
everlasting Spring of human creativeness won the
most adherents. A list of the various activity
groups in each of the twenty—six settlements had
been mimeographed and distributed, and long lists
of suggestions by individuals at the meeting, of
songs, dances and other features suited to such a
festival, were written down by the secretary of
the gathering.

A smaller number of the group met again in the
afternoon to deal somewhat more thoroughly with
the idea and suggestions, and a still smaller num—
ber of specialists including one skilled in pub—
licity, meeting in the evening, by midnight fin—
ished working out the following program, still
tentative in some of its detail:

The Program

Upon entering Jordan Hall for the festival at
about three o’clock on Sunday, April I4, the peo—
ple attending will be greeted
in the lobby by some strolling
singers and players. Invited
to go to the large stage bor-
dered with Spring greenery
and flowers, they will find
there a colorful exhibit of
several crafts and painting
and sculpture. Flower girls
will be there also and per—

605

606 A LASTING SPRING

haps a Gypsy fortune teller, balloon man and
other romantic characters including additional, or
else the same. strolling or seated singers and play-
ers. As the visitors move past the exhibit and go
to their seats, they will find in each one a printed
program of Spring-colored pages containing the
words of many songs which have been learned
during the preceding three months by groups of
parents and other adults from the settlement
neighborhoods as well as by the children. It will
also contain in simple language a statement of the
happy purpose of the affair and an invitation to
join in. The combined chorus of several hundred
children and older girls—a completely treble
chorus for the sake of unity and balance—will be
seated in the front and center of the hall, the rest
of the audience around. back and above them.

At about three-thirty a group of bell-ringers
using scale-tuned Swiss hand bells, will play at
the back of the hall a fine gay tune that will have
the effect of a fanfare. Then will follow a pro-
cession of the craftsmen and artworkers, each
bearing additional products of their skills, while
the whole audience sings the Beethoven Ode to
J oy,1 the words as well as the music of which are
just right for the essential meaning of the whole
affair. Here they are:

Hail thee, Joy!

All hail, divinest Daughter of Elysium!
We approach thy light so cheering,

To thy altar now we come.

Thou hast pow’r to bind together

\Vhat the world would rend apart.

And wherc'er thy light wings flutter,
Love and peace are in the heart.

Joy, ’tis Joy from heav’n descended,
Turns unseen the wheel of life,

Joy by love and hope attended,
Leading hearts from worldly strife:
Draws the stream from hidden sources,
Stirs the seed in earth confined,

Rolls the stars along their courses,
Moves the hearts of all mankind.

.-\n orchestra of players from two nmsic school
settlements will accompany this singing.

\\’hile the craftsmen and artworkers are set-
ting up the additional products in the booths and
preparing to work at their respective arts and
crafts in them, the audience will sing Come to the
Fair.2 Then will come a succession of special
groups and individuals in simple costume to the
fair, the first group dancing down the aisles and
up to the stage to the general singing of the
Cornish M ay Song.3 The second half of this sim-

ple dance, with its round hgure, is not done until
after the stage is reached. Each of the dozen or
sixteen dancers in this group will carry a sprig of
green or of flowers. In the village of Helston in
Cornwall, England, from which this dance and
song come, each May eighth is Furry Day (Fair
Day, the “furry” coming from the Latin feria as
“fair” has come.) Young people go before the
(lawn into the outskirts of the village to gather'
greenery and Howers, and return singing. They
then dance as our Boston young people will do,
but down the village street, the dance being known
as the Helston Furry Day Processional. They go
into each house along the way to bring the be—
nign infiuence into every household. '

To our fair will then come strolling briskly a
group of the city’s many Italian-Americans, one
or two of them with be-ribboned guitars, as we
all sing the Italian song, The Serenaders.“ The
song done, they will dance an especially gay
Tarentella to instrumental music.

Each of these dancing groups will stay at the
fair to enjoy the exhibits and good company. so
that when a forlornly dressed young soldier comes
along with a life and drum, a young woman
among the dancers who, we hope, has known him
a long time takes advantage of leap year as she
addresses him in the song 0 Soldier, Soldier, Which
appears on the .opposite page. She sings her part
and he sings his answer, which a man must be
lieve is intended not to deceive but to put the girl
off her question. The audience sings the phrases
telling what happens after each of his answers.
When she discovers that he already has a wife,
she may be angry or just shocked and embarrassed
and she may make him give back every bit of
clothing she gave him.

Now a trio or quartet of Negroes among the
craftsmen will sing one of their work songs or a
spiritual as they continue working. Then a 'small
chorus gathered in the wings will sing the gay old
four or six part round Summer Is A—Coming In,”
as a company of children come tripping in to its
dancing rhythm and while some break into a sing-
ing game, a few others who have brought the re
quired instruments accompany them in a rhythm
band along with the piano. That done. a group

1 111 Songs for Informal Singing, Set I, published by National
Recreation Association. 10c.

2 Published only separately by Boosey and Co., N. Y. 50c.-. Get
it in the key of G.

:3 8 .me as for 1.

III: Folk Songs and Ballads Set III. E. C. Schirmer Music
Co., Boston. 20c postpaid.

5 ln Folk Songs and Ballads, Set I. E. C. Schirmer Music Co..

Boston. 20c postpaid.

 

 

ww'r“.

A LASTING SPRING 607

0 Soldier. Soldier

of adolescent boys will come with the re-
quired equipment for a brief spell of
good tumbling. Following their acrobatics.
one of the craft workers or other persons
at the fair will start playing on his or her
guitar, preferably his, and sing one of the
loveliest of all the American folk ballads,
The Tit-'0 Sisters,“ The Nightingale,7 At
the Foot of Yonders jllourztain,8 or Pretty
Sally,8 or Stephen Foster’s Jeannie, With
the Light Brown Hair.9 If there is time,
the amusing Deaf Woman’s Courtship,8
sung and acted out, the woman being a
weaver at the fair, could be enjoyed very
much also.

Now a marionette theater will be rolled
into the scene and a suitable short play
given, after which a family group that ee=========
have been at work in one of the booths And
will sing as they continue their craft of
decorating their shepherd pipes. their song
being Belie-z'e III e, If All Those Endear-
ing Young Charms to be sung in four
parts, the second verse being joined in by
the whole audience with a small group of
sopranos singing a lovely descant10 to it
in the balcony. .

This lovely bit of music will be our cue for
having about a half hour' of general and special
group singing commencing with the gay Morning
Comes Early,5 sung also as a two-part Canon (like
a round, the second part commencing as the first
part reaches the word “early” in the second
measure) and the beautiful Springtime Lark in
the M orn,5 sung in two parts. For contrast and 3.
as token of the closing moments of the festival,
Sweet and Law9 will be sung by everyone, and
then without announcement we will hear from
the family group again, this time playing on their
shepherd pipes the children’s Prayer from Hansel
and Gretel.11 \Vhen they have reached the end
of the fourth phrase they will stop while the 4_
pianist will modulate from that chord to the
dominant. taking two measures within which to
do so and to hold the dominant chord for at least

 

 

With your mus ~ ket,

 

can- not mar- ry thee, For I

 

chest,

grand ~ fa - ther's

     

sol—dier put it

2. “O soldier, soldier, won’t you marry me
With your musket, life and drum ?”
“Oh, no. sweet maid. I cannot marry thee,
For I have no hat to put on.”
Then up she went to her grandfather’s chest,
And got him a hat of the very, very best,
She got him a hat of the very, very best,
And the soldier put it on.

“O soldier, soldier, 'won’t you marry me

W'ith your musket, life and drum ?”
“Oh, no, sweet maid, I cannot marry thee,

For I have no gloves to put on.”

Then up she went to her grandfather’s chest,
And got him some gloves of the very. very best,
She got him some gloves of the very, very best.
And the soldier put them on.

“O soldier, soldier, won’t you marry me

With your musket, life and drum ?”

“Oh, no, sweet maid, I cannot marry thee,

For I have no boots to put on.”

Then up she went to her grandfather's chest,
And got him some boots of the very, very best,

ell/lore Songs of the Hill-Folk, J. J. Niles. G. Schirmer, N. Y. She got him some boots of the very, very, best.

50c. .
7 Lonesome Tunes, VVyman and Brockway. H. W. Gray Co., 159 And the 501(1161' Imt them 011°
East 48th St., New York. $2.00. “ . . ,
5. O soldier, soldier, won t you marry me

8 Music Higlm'ays and Byways, Silver Burdett Co., N. Y. $1.98.

9 Golden Gate Song and Chorus Book, C. C. Birchard and Co.,
Boston. 25c. In many other books also.

10 In Songs for Informal Singing, Set III. National Recreation
Association. 10c.

11 In edition of the opera arranged for children. C. C. Birchard
and (‘0., Boston. $1.50. Also obtainable separately at musm

stores.

With your musket, life and drum?”
“Oh, no, sweet maid, I cannot marry thee,
For I have a wife of my own.”

The above song is from Dramatized Ballads by Tohitt and White.
Used by courtesy of E. P. Dutton & Co., New York.

608 A LASTING SPRING

two of the eight beats, while the leader will then
beckon the combined chorus of children to sing
the whole song, from the beginning, in two parts
accompanied by the orchestra and the pipes.

Now everyone will sing with the orchestra the
fine, big Alleluia 5 with its perfect expression of
the high enthusiasm of “Mother Earth,” and ap—
parently“ of sun,-‘moon and stars also, in the
Spring. The soprano group in the balcony will
sing a descant 12 to the second and fourth stanzas.
Finally, as the craftsmen and other special per—
formers walk up the aisles in a recessional we will
all sing America, the Beautiful, again with a
descant for its second and fourth stanzas.

Organization

A general Festival Committee has been formed,.

comprised of the specialists and a representative
of each of the settlements. Within this group are
a small executive committee and subcommittees
on music, crafts. staging and lighting, costuming,
personnel and publicity.

The personnel committee or manager has the
task of seeing to it that each special group of par-
ticipants and each individual in it are properly
provided with a place to obtain and put on cos-
tumes, With seating before performing and with
clear instructions as to when and where they enter
the scene, what they do while in it, and when and
how each individual will leave it. As each special
group finishes its performance it will remain at
the fair, as previously said about the first group
of dancers. But as the number at the fair grows
as large as an attractive stage arrangement will
permit, some will have to return to their seats,
doing so as casually and unobtrusively as possible.
Since the variety of costumes adds to the pleasure
of the scene, at no time after any kind of group
costume appears should it disappear entirely. For
example, if at the entrance of the children a cer-
tain number of the preceding performers should
leave, let it be decided and known beforehand
which members, not all, of the Cornish and Ital-
ian groups will do so at that time. It will be nec—
essary to make a chart beforehand of the stage
and of the seats in the hall that are to be re—
served for participants, and to mark on it the seat
ing of all special participants, including those who
are only to sing in the chorus, and the route of
entrance into the scene which each stage-perform—
ing group or individual is to take. These routes
should be interestingly varied. This well planned,

 

12 This descant ‘may he had without cost by applying to the writer
of this article.

a typed set of directions for each group or in-
dividual performer should be given to the person
responsible for that group or individual.

The Music Committee will need to arrange at
once for opportunities to help the singing groups
of children and of adults at each settlement to
learn the songs. That will call also for a mimeo-
graphing of the songs—at least the words of them
a—and the provision of piano accompaniments of
them for leaders that can use accompaniments.
The songs could be learned without accompani-
ments, if that were necessary.

Further Possibilities

Some of the leaders are wishing that a small
chorus be formed by themselves, borrowing a few
men singers from other fields in the settlements
to join in singing some suitable four-part music
in the festival. A similar chorus might be formed
of young people from the settlement clubs or
neighborhoods. But we think that the whole fes—
tival program starting with the Ode to Joy should
not take more than ninety minutes. It has so
much variety, however, that it might be five or
ten minutes longer to provide opportunity for such
a chorus‘at some good point along the way.

Where Swiss hand—bells are not available a
good duo, trio or quartet of brass instruments
might very suitably give the opening fanfare. The
songs, dances and other features of this festival
could all be changed without lessening the pleas-
ure and value of it. We would like to know of
similar festivals in other communities. They could
serve very well the purposes of a demonstration
of the whole program of recreational activities in

a community or in a single center or neighbor-
hood.

For additional material regarding spring cele-
brations appearing in this magazine we refer our
readers to another article by Mr. Zanzig entitled
“Heigh-Ho for a Merry Spring!” which was pub—
lished originally in RECREATION and later re-
printed. Reprints of the article may be secured
from the National Recreation Association at fif-
teen cents each. The April 1939 issue of RECRE-
ATION contains, under the title “May Day Cele—
brations,” not only suggestions for festivities for
this gala day but also references to source ma—
terial on music, drama, dancing, and other activi-
ties which would be exceedingly helpful to indi—
viduals or groups planning spring festivals of
any type.

Trends in Public Recreation

of the fact that our citi-

zens have had the vision to develop recrea-
tion systems—north, east, south and west in this
country—which are unequalled in the world.

a S A PEOPLE we can be proud

During the last generation the leisure time
movement has grown to include playgrounds, com-
munity centers, lecture coursés, forums, and all
the values included in so-called Adult Education.
All ages and both sexes are served, and by pro-
grams that sweep from physical activities to hand—
craft. music, dramatics, socials. Furthermore,
cities, towns and rural areas receive appropria-
tions from tax funds. All this—t0 say nothing of
the opening up of the great out of doors by
virtue of our National Park Service, maintained
by public appropriations.

Many private agencies have their following but
it is to national and local public recreation sys-
tems that we look for the most comprehensive
listing of opportunities. Public agencies, however,
will serve efficiently only in so far as they are
manned by a high grade of personnel. There—
fore, before this professional group of recreation
workers a few thoughts as to personnel will be
in point.

If one refers to VVebster’s Dictionary, the defi—
nition of the word “profession” will be found to
be “A calling or vocation, especially one that re-
quires a learned education.” Note the word
“learned” which modifies the word “education.”
Further, the dictionary states that the word “pro-
fession” is not applied to an occupation that is
merely mechanical.

So, if recreation workers are banded together
in a body which is called professional, it is essen-
tial that the membership be true to its assumption
by being made up of those who are not only skilled
in the practices involved but have a body of
knowledge which enables them to give reasons
why they do thus and so, and
which makes it possible for
those who are admitted to play
their part in the intertwined
relationships that exist among
all professional groups, as well
as to be able to win the accep—
tance of the community.

By EVA WHITING WHITE

At a meeting of the Society
reation Workers of America held in
connection with the National Recre-
ation Congress in Boston. Mrs. White.
who is headworker at Elizabeth Pea-
body HouseI BostonI spoke on trends
in public recreation from the point
of view of the social worker.

In other words, a profession
demands both intellectual
power and technical ability. It is not enough to
be steeped in the philosophy of one’s calling.
Principles must be applied, tested, varied by ex-
perience. Neither is it enough to be able to act
without knowing the significance of the goals to-
ward which action should tend.

Now participation in the demands of the leisure
life is in the sphere of the humanities. This is
important because human beings cannot be treated
like cogs in a machine without causing them to
react negatively. Their needs and desires present
an infinite variety which must be met with sub-
tlety and insight.

Certain dangers assail most professions—dan-
gers which, it would seem, can be guarded against
since the professionalizing of recreation is in its
foundation stage.

First as to technique: Great intelligence needs
to be used to overcome the stumbling block of
technique. There are teachers so bound by peda-
gogy that they are ineffective; social workers so
involved in the steps of procedure that they lose
sight of human nature.

Second comes the matter of language, phrase-
ology, which can be either a help or a barrier in
welding people to a cause. There can be no doubt
but that phrases used by social workers——cold and
uninterpretative as they often are—have led to
many a misunderstanding on the part of the pub-
lic, the very public from whom' support is either
won or lost. Metallic language may get to the
press and newspapers will be shunted off. It will
take a great deal of clever publicity to overcome
handicaps so created.

Take the phrase “case work.” W'liat does it
mean? The constant repetition of such a term
tends to build a fence between those who are
endeavoring to meet the desires of men and
women, boys and girls and the
community that instinctively
demands to be told what is
being done in sympathetic,
human writing and speaking.
it is well, therefore, to with—
stand the attempt to be im—
pressive by using cumbersome

609

of Rec-

610 TRENDS IN PUBLIC RECREATION

or convenient rubber stamp terms. Those rubber
stamp terms throw many-sided efforts into a kind
of hash. One would think on reading some of the
current material that surgical operations should
be performed on the normal affiliations of folks.
It can be stated with some assurance that the
moment the public senses too great a formalizing
of effort in the leisure time field, the public will
move away. In the field of pathology people must
get assistance so it is accepted on whatever terms.
“'ith normal life the situation is quite different.
Then all ages accept or refuse most independently.
Point three: Care should be taken to see that
pathological conditions in
society are not over-em-

”Their needs and desires present an infinite vari-

phasized as a justification for recreation. For
some reason it seems to be easier to talk or to
write about difficulties to be overcome than to
present the infinite challenge of furthering the
higher qualities. Instead of bringing out what
recreation prevents people from doing, what it
enables people to achieve should be its basic asset.

Of course directors of public systems and their
staff workers should develop an understanding of
how to study communities. They should be fa—
miliar with racial characteristics and customs, with
political organizations, with measures for better-
ing environmental conditions, with the factors in

industry. with the bear—
(C‘onfimwd on. page 638)

ety which must be met with subtlety and insight"

I 10701; t. ,' Id‘c 

 

(‘nm'tesy Massachusetts WPA

Planning for the Future

N INCREASINGLY large
A number of people are
becoming interested
either as spectators or con-
testants in some form of out-
door recreation. To fulfill the
growing demand for the fa-
cilities necessary for the pur-
suit of outdoor recreations,
new recreational areas are be-
ing developed continually.
Some of these are commercial projects and many of
them are public projects fostered by municipalities.
A second way of meeting this ever increasing
demand for additional facilities is to make the
facilities available for longer periods of time
through the use of light. This method is gaining
increasing favor, a fact which is evidenced by a
report that there are at the present time approxi-
mately 2,000 lighted recreational areas in the
United States.

If plans for recreational areas are made with
the thought in mind of lighting~them at some
future date, proper precautions can be taken so
that they will be readily adaptable to fiood lighting.
If this possibility is not kept in mind it may be
found that lighting will be expensive and even
then not particularly satisfactory.

This is especially true in areas where two or
three sports are played on the same plot of
ground. For instance, if a baseball field, football
field, and a softball field are all laid out on the
same plot with an eye to the future, they can each
be well lighted from the same set of lights and with
no further adjustments or readjustments. How-
ever, if no thought is given to the future it is usu—
ally found that more lights and continuous read-
justment, resulting in a more expensive job, are
required and that one sport or another must suffer.

In order to demonstrate how to properly lay
out a recreational area with the thought in mind
of lighting at some future date, several of the
more common combinations are shown in diagram
form and discussed briefly.

General Nunicipal Athletic Field for
Baseball, Football and Softball

In the layout shown in Figure 1, page 613, it
can be seen that the same floodlight locations are

By GLENN G. BOBST
General Electric Company

The primary purpose of this article
is to point out to officials promot-
ing or planning recreational areas
how they can. through proper plan-
ning. readily adapt their facilities
for lighting at such time as growing
demands warrant such action.

used regardless of which sport
is to be played. In any case the
resulting lighting job will be
satisfactory for the sport
which is being played. Base-
ball, being a much faster game
than softball and involving a
larger playing area, will re-
quire a greater quantity of
light. Football and softball re-
quirements are adequately sat-
isfied by baseball lighting. When softball is to be
played on the same area, some of the lights which
are used for baseball can be turned off. The
change from one to the other involves only a
means of electrical control which can be made not
only convenient but also inexpensive.

If the fields were laid out in a different relation
to each other than that shown in Figure I, the
same poles would not serve for all three applica-
tions and much additional equipment would be
required to accomplish the same result. The tabu-
lated recommendations at the end of this article
indicate how many fioodlights should be used for
each type of sport and other basic information.

Successful play under fioodlights demands a
high level of illumination so distributed that the
field itself and the ball, as it travels through the
air, can be seen clearly from all positions. Great
care must be taken that objectionable glare does
not rob the players of their skill and spectators of
their pleasure. The selection of proper equipment.
the installation of that equipment in the correct
locations, and the observance of recommended
mounting heights all contribute toward giving
both the spectator and the player the maximum of
visibility and enjoyment. The information con-
tained in this tabulation is based on experience
gained through many installations and if followed
should result in a well lighted field.

Because of the relatively few burning hours per
season, it is usually economical to operate lamps
at about 10% over their rated voltage. This in-
creases the light output of the lamp about 35%
with an increased power consumption of only
about 16%. The lamp life is reduced to approxi-
mately 30% of normal but on the average should
l.e Sufficient for at least one or more seasons
of operation. The economy of over voltage opera-

611

612 PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE

tion is based on the hours used per year of the
system. It is generally found that when a system
is to be in use from 50 hours to 200 hours a year
it is economical to operate the system at 10% over
voltage, and from 200 to 500 hours at 5%. From
500 on up the lamps should be operated at rated
voltage.

On sports lighting applications either open or
enclosed fioodlights may be used. The enclosed
type is recommended to prevent lamp breakage
from rain. The only alternative to the use of door
glasses is the use of hard glass lamps to avoid
lamp breakage. Door glasses not only protect the
lamps but also prevent accumulations of dust and
dirt on the lamps and refiectors.

General Municipal Athletic Field for
Football and Softball

In recreational areas where space is at a pre-
mium, it is sometimes found to be advantageous
to locate the softball fields directly on the football
field. This is shown in Figure 2. Two softball
fields can be easily accommodated on one football
field and the same lights used for either sport with
the exception of locations 9 and 10 which are not
needed for playing football. The relation of the
softball diamonds to the football field is the im-
portant thing to be considered, as proper location
permits the satisfactory use of the same lights for
either sport.

If softball is played only on diamond A, loca-
tions 1, 2, 5, 6 and 9 will be the only ones used.
Likewise, if played only on diamond B, locations
3, 4, 7, 8 and 10 will be used.

General Municipal Athletic Field for
Softball and Six-Man Football

Once again the same general layout is followed.
(See Figure 3.) The main purpose of showing
this plan is to indicate where the fioodlights should
be placed when this particular combination is
used and the relation of the diamond to the foot-
ball field. When either softball or football are

being played in this combination all of the lights
are used.

College, School or Municipal Stadiums for
Football, Track and Field Events

In stadiums the Hoodlights are generally
mounted back of the seating facilities. The num-
ber of Hoodlights used varies depending on the
class of football played. Floodlights are placed
in locations as indicated in the layout in Figure

4 and the number varies from a minimum of
twelve in each position up to twenty. If the area
in the stadium is to be used for track or field
events, it is generally found necessary to readjust
as many fioodlights as are needed for the events
to be run off. It is obvious that control of the
projected light (the photometric characteristics of
the Hoodlights) is of vital importance particularly
where the poles or towers are behind the seating
facilities.

Municipal Park Tennis Courts

A little planning at the time of laying out
tennis courts generally results in the ability to
light twice as many courts with the same amount
of light and expense. If the courts are made up
in blocks of two with a space between each block,

'as in Figure 5, fioodlights placed as indicated will

light both courts very satisfactorily. The same
number of Hoodlights and poles would be re-
quired to light a single court but is not sufficient
for three courts. By dividing the courts up into
groups of two each. it is not necessary to illumi-
nate three or four in order to play on one and the
center courts of a group of three, four or more
do not suffer by contrast with those nearer the
fioodlight poles. The number of lighted tennis
courts is increasing rapidly and the playing of
this sport after dark is finding public favor.

Municipal Swimming Pools (Outdoor)

The lighting plan indicated in Figure 6 is in-
cluded because of the constant trend toward larger
and larger pools. The conventional pools running
up to 60-70 feet wide can be lighted by modern
underwater methods very nicely from outside
edges. However, with the modern trend toward
pools 100 feet to 200 feet wide, the distances
involved are too great to span the area from one
side to the other even With the largest of lamps
and the most efficient projecting equipment. In
pools of this type it is recommended that an
island such as that indicated in the diagram be
installed in the pool. By locating light niches in
the island complete coverage can be obtained.
The island also has an additional safety feature
which cannot be overlooked. It affords a resting
place 01' a haven for inexperienced swimmers who
get halfway across the pool and become ex-
hausted. With a pool 100 feet or more wide, a
person in the middle underwater is not readily
discernible because of the failure of sidewall

613

anemnaob 9233mm E...»th .cemumamQ 33M Era—Emu ~33 aneuuuoauu a???

«.0?—

 

 

..ooa ozizim .
«000.. :o 0-9....

mhmnoo m_zzuk

    

Cam...—
Jqdohoou om<oz¢hm

oz<4m_

q
.2._1.n_4_1.9.rnLJn_+.2

mkxaoo _
1.4203501

men :uaum

 

mw_._._.:0<.._ oz_._.<um

 
      

PLJINNING FOR THE FUTURE

   
  

Engage-IE
lag-alligan
EEEEIHIE

    
 

   

 3:. 5:33
C - J<POF mum 20:36an
3.2: 32:
c n .on u _
0.... will? 0.1 od-
niT' oo_l.+l.oo_lll+l..lu.oo_lruo+on

($14 I’LAAUVING FOR THE FUTURE

lights to maintain an adequate level across the
pool. The island would aHord an excellent place
for a lifeguard station to forestall such a condi—
tion. It must be remembered that the attractive-
ness of a pool illuminated by underwater Hood-
lights and the safety afforded are the chief claims
of success of this method of illumination.

Miscellaneous Minor Sports

The composite chart represented in Figure 7 is
included to indicate how some of the games which

   
  
   

I
:

'+}+ eo‘ +l+GO'—>-l lwo'

l

I0+1 ’rs—GO

ICE HOCKEY

   

TIMES IHE MOUNTING HEIGHT

SPACING NOT TO EXCEED 4

are popular with the unskilled can be lighted.
These games are easier to light as they do not re-
quire as much illumination as the games involv-
ing a high degree of skill. These types of recrea-
tion are the ones most popular with the general
public because they can actually participate in
them with a great amount of enjoyment. To en-
courage the average man to be a contestant and
benefit by such participation, the lighting of these
minor sports should be kept in mind when a
lighting program is inaugurated.

 

   
 

'

 
  

SKATING POND BOWLING GREEN

300 TO+ 400 FT.

  

/

   
  

 
  

HORSE SHOE PITCHING

  
 
  
  
 

 

SKI JUMP SKI SLOPE

 

 

 

    

SHUFFLEBOARD PING PONG

 

FIG-7

Courtesy Laboratory and Lighting Sales Division, General Electric Company

PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE ()15

TABLE OF RECOMMENDATIONS

as practices may, of course, vary the levels of
lighting and to some extent the methods of
application but they should be adhered to as
closely as possible.

This table of recommendations is made up
based on data collected over a period of years and

if followed will result in a satisfactory lighting
application. Local conditions, preferences as well

 

 

 

 

No. of Mounting No. of Load Kw.
Sport Fig. Locations Height Floodlights Type of Floodlight R.V.* O.V.**

Baseball 1 8 60-70' 100-1500 W. 150 174.0

Softball 1 4 60-70' 60-1500 W. 90 1040

Football 1 8 60-70’ 100-1500 W. 150 174.0

Football 2 8 50' 52-1500 w. Both open or enclosed 78 90.5
_ , Alzak finished alumi-

Softball (2 diamonds) 2 10 50 40-1500 W. mum Hoodlights should 60 69.6

(1diamond) 2 5 50' 20-1500 W- be used. These are 30 34.8

Softball 3 8 _ 50. 324500 W. available in both polish- 48 55.7
ed and etched reHectors.

6 Man Football 3 8 40’   Most open Hoodlights  

Football 4 6 100-130' 84-120-1500 W. can be COTmeCth into 126 146.0
, . enclosed units by the

Track 4 6 100-130 Readiust as addition Of‘ a door glass 180 209.0

. many and retaining ring.

Field Events 4 4 (Ends) 100-130' as needed. _ o o . . . .

Tennis Courts 5 4 (2 Courts) 30-35' 8-1500 W. 12 13.9

Tennis Courts 5 6 (4 Courts) 3035' 16-1500 w. J 24 27.9

Swimming Pool 6 The relative spacing and location of lighting niches shown on Fig. 6 should be main-

tained irrespective of size of pool. Underwater equipment rated 1000 and 1500 W.
should be used for this application. From 2 to 3 watts per square foot of pool (bottom
surface) are recommended.

Badminton 7 2 30' 4-1000 W. Etched Alzak Aluminum 4 4.6
or Porcelain Enamel

Basketball 7 4 30' 8-1500 W. Etched Alzak Aluminum 12 13.9

Boxing Ring 7 4 18’ 8-1000 W. Etched Alzak Aluminum 8 9.28

Bowling Green 7 12 25’ 12-1500 W. Etched Alzak Aluminum 18 20.9
or Porcelain Enamel

Croquet Court 7 4 20' 4-1000 W. Etched Alzak Aluminum 4 4.6
or Porcelain Enamel

Horseshoe 7 2 20' 2- 750 W. Etched Alzak Aluminum 1.5 1.7
or Porcelain Enamel

Ice Hockey 7 8 35' 12-1500 W. Etched Alzak Aluminum 18 20.9

Shuffieboard 7 1 20’ 2- 200 W. Handy Type .4

Skating Pond 7 Spacing and location of Hoodlights should be adhered to as closely as possible. The

Ski Slope 7 watts per square foot recommended are : skating pond .5 watts, ski slope .1 watt.

Ski Jump 7 6 30’ 6-1500 W. Etched Alzak Aluminum 9 10.4

Ping-Pong 7 l 15’ 1- 200 W. Handy Type ,2

 

 

*R.V.--Rated voltage
**O.V.—Over voltage 10%

What They Say About Recreation

N x- LEISURE we repair and rebuild our energies
I of body and soul. We expand to the release
that comes from the excitement of sport,

the concentration and enlargement of devotion to
a hobby, the joy of following the adventures,
comic or tragic, of the heroes of drama and fic-
tion. We emotionally respond to great painting
and thrill to great music. The time of leisUre is
the time of recreation, and re-creation means the
rebuilding of the wasted fibres of brain and body
and heart.”—From Hours 01? by Daniel A. Lord.

“Perhaps in the soul-satisfying beauties of our
national parks and other sacred regions we shall
find that we can regain something of that poise of
outlook and courage in action which contact with
unspoiled Nature may confer on human beings,
and so ensure a continuance of our civilization on
the lands which were so lately conquered by our
ancestors.”——Harlean James in Romance of the
National Parks.

“A dominant note in the ever—expanding proc—
esses of education in the future will be happiness.
To this end more liberal space for play and rec-
reation will be provided for children, youth and
adults. The entire community will participate in
the development and enjOyment of school gar-
dens. Pageants and outdoor theater activities will
be a part of the program both day and evening.
Swimming pools, sun rooms, attractive auditori-
ums, healthful gymnasiums and other like facili-
ties will be found in these newer schools. Educa-
tional trips, more extensive travel, visits to cul-
tural centers, attendance at large scale exhibits,
will be enjoyed.”—From Expanding Functions of
Education for Pennsylvania, “Public Education
Bulletin,” April 1938.

“Leisure means opportunity to rediscover na-
ture. We are living in a society which becomes
more and more artificial. Machines are gradually
pulling us away from nature. Yet, in this great
nation we have for every man, woman and child
one and seven-tenths acres of free public land in
the form of parks and waters. We need to spend
more time in these parks and learn about birds,
trees, and flowers.”—Eduard C. Lindeman.

616

“\’\"e in the United States are amazingly rich in
the elements from which to weave a culture. We
have the best of man’s past on which to draw,
brought to us by our native folk and by folk from
all parts of the world. In binding these elements
into a national fabric of beauty and strength, let
us keep the original fibers so intact that the fine-
ness of each will show in the complete handi-
\\'ork.”————Franklin D. Roosevelt.

 

“There are some things one never forgets. One
is the sight of trees at their best—the primeval
grandeur of a great forest tract. Trees in all their
grace and beauty and majesty, forest giants that
have seen the generations come and go, climbing
higher and higher into the upper air. There is a
fascinating feeling of awe in an ancient wood. Its
silence and tranquility does something to the
spirit. One does not understand it, but here is
something great and august and permanent.”

“It is not how many activities, or how many
pe0ple, or how extensive the program, or how
much money is spent on it, but how well it is
being done, how permanent it is, how well it is
received by the people and what is happening to
our community as a result of our coordinated
effort.”—Alonao G. Grace, Commissioner of
Education, Connecticut.

“If our powers are to be effectively applied in
sustaining the forms and achieving the ends of
popular government, the humane spirit must be
cherished and quickened, and ever brought to
bear as a dynamic element in the enrichment of
life. Knowledge is not enOUgh. Science is not
enOUgh. Both may be employed to kill as well as
to heal. Accumulated facts, though high as moun-
tains, give us no instruction in human values and
the choices of application. It is the humane spirit
that points the way to the good life.”——Charles A.
Beard in Education for Democracy.

“Is it not remarkable that the only distinctive
American music has come from the Negro folk
songs, the ballads of the Mountaineers, and the
songs of the Western cowboys—from the work
songs of the common people”——Dwight Sanderson.

Institutes as Valuable In-Service Training

OME YEARS AGO billboards
S carried an illustration

showing a satisfied look-
ing gentleman puffing a cigarette
and declaring, “I’d walk a mile
for a Camel.”

A picture that probably will
never be displayed along the
highways is that of a Methodist
clergyman in Texas who was
prepared to do and did an even
more significant thing. For a month he drove
forty-seven miles a day to attend a National Rec-
reation Association institute at Fort Worth. Be-
sides his arduous work as a pastor in the town of
Chelsea, Rev. C. Clyde Hoggard is district director
of work for young people. That perhaps accounts
for the special interest he has in recreation.

Interviewed by a local newspaper, Mr. Hog-
gard said, “I believe the recreation approach is
vital to the whole church program and I’m learn—
ing lots of new things from the institute. . . . I
enrolled because I was anxious personally to con—
tact these particular leaders for_ their point of
view and to acquire new skills. I think their lead-
ership is excellent.”

Though the great majority of the nearly 10,000
men and women who have attended such insti-
tutes have not been obliged to drive forty—seven
miles a day, some have traveled even farther.
For example, a recent course in North Carolina,
after thorough publicizing, drew from through-
out the state. It might be thought that to carry

out a regular job
and in addition at-
tended an institute
several hours a day
would prove too
great a physical
strain. On the con-
trary, however, the
“students” have
proved quite equal
to the challenge. So
much so, that in
ten of the forty
cities where since -
September 1935
the institutes have

Atlanta. Ga.
Baltimore. Md.
Berkeley. CaI.

*Cincinnati. Ohio

*CIeveIand. Ohio
Denver. Colo.
Detroit. Mich.
Durham. N. C.

Houston. Texas

By WEAVER W. PANGBURN
National Recreation Association

CITIES WHERE INSTITUTES HAVE BEEN HELD

*IndianapoIis. Ind.
*Kansas City. Mo.

Knoxville. Tenn.

Birmingham. Ala. *Los Angeles. Cal.
*Boston. Mass.

Butian. N. Y.

Chicago. Ill.

Louisville. Ky.

Milwaukee. Wis.
Minneapolis. Minn. *San Antonio. Texas
Newark. N.J.

New Orleans. La.

New York. N. Y.
*Philadelphia. Pa.
*Pittsburgh. Pa.
Fort Worth. Texas *Providence. R. I.
Roanoke. Va.

* City having first and second year institute.

 

been held, a second and ad-
vanced or different course has
been conducted.

Since the tall oi |935
the National Recreation
Association has conduct-
ed recreation training in-
stitutes in torty cities

Nature of the Institutes

What, in brief, is the pur—
pose of these institutes? Who
sponsors them? How are they
financed? Who may attend?
What is the subject matter?

Looking, for example, at the
attractive announcement of the Birmingham
course which is going on as this is written, it is
seen that the institute’s aim is many-sided. That

announcement reads as follows:

“Its purpose is to bring to the organization of leisure
new inspiration and a new interpretation of objectives;
to establish high standards of excellence in recreation; to
bring a fresh point of view to paid and volunteer work-
ers and to help them increase their skill in conducting
activities; to give to board members and civic leaders a
new understanding of the significance of the present op-
portunity offered in the leisure time field in relation to
home, church, school, industry, and public and private
recreational agencies; to encourage effective cooperative
planning and action. and to harness the potential skills
of leaders in the interests of peaceful and democratic

living.”

While the National Recreation Association pro-
vides the faculty for the institutes, the sponsor-
ship is in the hands of local agencies. In Birming-
ham these are Jefferson County Coordinating
Council of Social Forces, Birmingham Park and
Recreation Board, Community Chest, Negro Ad-
visory Board of Community Chest with the co-
operation of Bir-
mingham-Southern
College, Howard
College, and Miles
Memorial College.
In other cities more
or fewer agencies
have accepted re-
sponsibility. Among
them are: service
clubs, councils of
social agencies,
Christian associa-
tions, and Federal
agencies including
the Works Progress-

617

Rochester. N. Y.
Sacramento. Cal.

St. Louis. Mo.

St. Paul. Minn.

Salt Lake City and
Provo. Utah

San Francisco. Cal.
Springfield. Mass.
Syracuse. N. Y.
Tampa. Fla.

Tulsa. Okla.
Worcester. Mass.

618 INSTITUTES AS VALUABLE LIV-SERVICE TRAINING

 

Photo by Lambert Martin, I-I’orId-News Photographer, Roanoke. Va.

Administration and the National Youth Adminis—
tration. Even individuals have come forward as
co—sponsors.

For the financing of the courses these sponsors
combine to underwrite a given amount which rep—
resents a portion of the cost of the institute. They
are reimbursed from the fees of the students. So
far the highest fee for the entire course has been
$15, obviously a very moderate sum. Charges for
individual subjects or
combinations of subjects
:are fixed in accordance
with a scale appropriate
[to the charge for the en—
tire course.

Admission to the in-
stitutes is open to “all
persons interested in rec—
reation leadership or in
the subject announced,”
as the Birmingham pros—
pectus states. Profes—
sional leaders from pub—
lie and semi—public rec—

In the drama courses
instruction is given
in the techniques of
producing a play

Students taking the
music courses at an

institute play on the
pipes they have made

reation agencies, mem-
bers of Parent-Teacher
Associations. teachers,
program chairmen of
clubs, clergymen, church
school teachers, adult ed-
ucation and physical edu—
cation directors, workers
in institutions, volunteers
from many types of
agencies, and case work- ~
ers among many others
are eligible. Usually a
committee on admissions passes on their quali-
tications.

The subject matter depends upon the wishes of
the sponsoring and participating agencies. In Bir-
mingham 'classes in arts and crafts, music, and
social recreation. each subject presented in thirty
class hours, are offered. In other cities the com-
bination of three major courses has included

drama and nature study.
( C ontimwd on page 639)

 

 

Introducing the Snow Artist!

HE SNOWMAN in the front yard has under-
Tgone considerable change in the last few years.

His unwieldly, proportionless figure has be-
come svelte and sculptured; he has been outfitted
with armatures to prevent him from toppling
over; he has even been dressed Up in natural
color. He has been crowded almost out of the
yard, however, by a host of seals, dogs, cats, ele-
phants, alligators, prominent personages, build—
ings, and comic strip characters executed in ice.
All this has occurred as a result of widespread in-
terest in the art of snow modeling. Children en-
joy it; in addition, they learn about color, design,
and manipulation. Snow modeling and the art of
sculpture seem on entirely different planes, but the
modeler learns the principles by which the sculp-
tor works. Crude self—expression thus can be
turned into real creative activity.

The Snow Artist Makes a Statue

One method of snow modeling is to pack snow
into a large pile and freeze it. The figure is carved
or chipped out with a hatchet. The evident defect
in this method is the problem of weight distribu-
tion. Since the statue must support its own weight,
the variety of subjects which can be modeled ac—
cording to this plan is limited.

The second method employs slush (made by
filling a pail of water with snow) and armatures
of boards and wire to support legs and arms for
better weight distribution. Since the modeler
shapes the form on a frame, this method is simi-
lar to that of the clay sculptor. Slush is similar
to plaster of paris or clay in its pliability, but
slush can be chipped, carved, and smoothed even
after it is frozen.

The sculptor first chooses his subject and draws
a picture of the proposed statue. (At Dartmouth
College modelers reproduce their subjects in clay

to make sure of correct placing of armatures and
proper distribution of Weight.) By drawing lines
on the picture, measurements are taken for con-
structing the model in proportionate size. The
beginner should be cautioned against selecting a
subject which requires an intricate armature of
boards, sticks, and. wire. Buildings, reclining fig-
ures or figures which can be erected around sturdy
supports are practical. Experienced modelers re—
late that it is easier to make life size statues than
small ones.

After deciding upon a model and cutting the
armatures, the sculptor selects his tools. He must -
have the armatures ready to put together and wire
or nails to fasten them. He must have a large
bucket and a sprinkling can or a hose in order to
make slush. He must have a dipper to remove the
5111in from the bucket to the framework, a shovel
to make a platform for the model, and a paddle,
trowel. knife, hatchet, and wood raSp (for hair
effects) to shape the snow into the desired form.
If he wants to give color to his work of art, he
also will need Kalsomine and a two-inch brush
to apply it.

The hrst step in the actual modeling is making
a bank of snow two or three feet high. The model
will be erected upon this platform. The place
where the statue is built is of great importance.
If possible it should be displayed against a dark
surface or building so it will show up to greater
advantage.

The boards chosen for the legs should be cut a
foot longer than the actual measmments so they
can be sunk into the base as extra support for the
model. The sculptor piles slush or snow about the
leg boards and then pours water over the entire
structure so it will freeze and become solid.

The rest of the framework is erected and wired
or nailed together. A large box can be placed in

619

620

 

INTRODUCING THE SNOW ARTIST!

the center of the body of the figure as a part of the arma-
ture. This will lessen the gross weight of the finished model
and will decrease the possibility of its toppling over.

Now the actual modeling begins. The constructor applies
the slush to the armature, building and shaping with paddle
or trowel as he goes. Even after the slush has frozen he can
change the figure by chipping it with a hatchet. He will be
able to experiment, for if the weather stays cold he can con-
tinue remodeling over a period of several days.

He views the statue from all sides to assure correct pro-
portion. When it is satisfactory, he may decide that outlining
is necessary. In this case, oil paint can be applied with a
brush. Kalsomine, in a pasty consistency, is used to color
the model. The water freezes, leaving the color in the ice.
For some models at Dartmouth ice cakes have been dyed to
use as a colorful background or for the base of a panel in
relief.

After the finished statue is sprayed on a cold night it looks
like a carving in ice—and it won’t melt easily.

If the modeler wants to display his work at night, lighting
by small spotlights is very effective. Care must be taken in
placing the lights to achieve the best possible effects; the
placing depends on the size and shape of the model. The
strength of the lights is governed by the size of the subject.

Contests in Snow Modeling

When carrying on a community snow modeling contest, it
is well to limit the age of the participants or to arrange for
various age divisions. The contestants should be encouraged
to attempt models other than snowmen. Modeling in indi—
vidual front yards is preferable to modeling in a central park
because of the difficulties with transportation of materials
and the expense involved in the spring clean up. Moreover,
the models don’t show up as well as when they are displayed
individually. It is wise to set a deadline for the construction
work and to ask that the contestants submit pictures of their
models as they finish them. When all the pictures are in, the
judges make their selections.

Minneapolis has held snow modeling contests for a number
of years, using two methods. A city-wide contest has been
held at a centrally located park. The disadvantage lies in the
tremendous amount of necessary hauling of materials and
equipment to one area. When the models melt in the spring,
all the boards, sticks, and Wires must be cleared away by the
city. The second type of contest tried out was on the basis
of districts. The children modeled at neighborhood parks,
and a final contest among district winners determined the
city snow modeling champion. Inexpensive medals and cups
were given as awards. The Recreation Department suggests
that groups as well as individuals should be encouraged to
cuter the COHtESt- (Continued on page 640)

Nora: The two cuts reproduced here are used by courtesy of the
Union County, New Jersey, Park Commission.

Golf and Country Clubs
for Winter Sports

By CHESTER C. CONANT

REVELATION to the increasing number of ardent winter
A sports enthusiasts in Massachusetts is the fact that
slowly but surely golf and country clubs of the state
are opening their grounds for winter use to their members
and, in some instances, to the public at large. This awaken-
ing is credited to the tremendous popularity of winter sports
throughout the country and to the fact that the more active
clubs realize that their grounds provide ideal opportunities
for winter activities.

The golfer who has himself been affected by the winter
sports “bug” is quick to realize that his favorite fourteen
hole which drops almost a mile to the green would make a
fine location for a mile-a-minute toboggan chute; or that
tough, uphill third with its smooth, even fairway would be a
much better practice slope for skiing than Si Brown’s rock-
ribbed pasture. Directors are discovering that a well or—
ganized winter program promotes interest and fellowship
within the club, which does not detract a bit from member—
ship for the following year. A winter sports program also
solves the ever-present problem of keeping the head greens-
keeper and his aides busy during what was formerly the
off season.

A Few Conclusions

That interest in a year—round program for golf courses is
on an upward trend has been brought out by the results of a
questionnaire sent out by the writer to many of the golf
organizations throughout the state. Pertinent conclusions
obtained from a study of the returns might well be:

That nearly half of the clubs encourage winter sports on
their c011rses.

That skiing, skating, and winter golf are the most popular
activities, with ski jumping, tobogganing, and carnivals sec—
ond in importance.

That an average of twenty per cent of the memberships
of the various clubs use the facilities.

That the greater majority of the clubs were not located
near the private or state winter sports development.

Most of the clubs heard from were open to the public for
recreational purposes during the winter months and claimed
a suitable, topography for nearly all. of the various winter

sports.

 

 

 

622 ‘ GOLF AND COUNTRY CLUBS FOR WINTER SPORTS

The question, “Do you believe that a winter
sports program is becoming increasingly im-
portant in the year-round schedule of golf and
country clubs?" was answered unanimously in the

afiirmative.

Weather Conditions

The prime requisite in considering and promot-
ing a winter sports program of any kind is a
definite idea of the type of weather to expect. It
would be folly to construct a permanent and ex-
pensive ski jump or downhill trail in a section
where the average snowfall is less than thirty
inches and the average winter temperature over
thirty-five degrees. From a brochure by E. 
Domina, “Snowfall Survey for Massachusetts,”
written for the Massachusetts State Planning
Board from data secured from the United States
Weather Bureau in Boston, there is sufficient evi-
dence to establish sound general conclusions war—
ranting investment in winter sports facilities and
promotion in ninety per cent of the state of Mas-
sachusetts. It will perhaps be sUrprising for old
timers who claim that our winters today are mild
compared to those of past seasons to learn that
the average snowfall statistics and the mean tem-
perature data collected from 1926-1936 at stations
in a number of cities throughout the state vary by
less than ten per cent from data which had been
collected at six of these stations over a period of
forty years. Inasmuch as these stations cover an
area representative of the greater part of the
state, the amount of snowfall and mean tempera-
ture for each section may be reliably interpreted
by means of maps and graphs.

From statistics available there seems to be jus—
tification for the development of all winter sports
activities in all sections of‘the state west of Bos-
ton over a long period of years. This statement
does not mean, however, that a lighter program
is not justified in the southeastern part of the
state, but that the reliability of good conditions is
uncertain. Thus a short-time or simplified pro-

gram in relation to existing conditions might
prove more favorable.

Financing

Very important in carrying out an organized
winter sports program is the problem of finances,
since on this may hinge either the development of
a better group of facilities or the closing of the

club to all winter sports activities as a result of
financial reverses.

It has seemed advisable for most of the private
clubs to charge a certain fee for the season, show-
ing preference to year-round members over non-
members.

The following program card was devised by the
\Veston Golf Club, a leader in the winter sports
field:

“The rates for membership in winter sports are

as follows :

Family membership . . . . . . . . . . $20.00
Husband and wife . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Individual . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
junior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00

“The usual rebates to members in the event of
there being less than fifty days of skating and
coasting combined will be in effect. The complete
list of rebates is posted in the club office.

“Membership cards for winter sports are avail-
able to non-members of the club who have been
approved by this committee. Rates for such mem-
bers are fifty per cent higher than for club
members.

“The charge for guests is seventy-five cents
per day.

“Your cooperation is asked in signing all guests
either with the attendant or at the club office or
in the book provided for this purpose at the pond.

“Arrangements will be made with a profes-
sional ski instructor for beginners and experienced
skiers if a sufficient number are interested. Infor—
mation about classes will be mailed.

“Please list on the enclosed post card the mem-
bers of your family who may wish to take Ski
lessons. Names of those who are not members of
the club but who would like to take these may
be given to the chairman.

“The rink will be used most of the time for in—
formal hockey. Occasional reservations Will be
made for games. Will those interested in forming
a club team communicate with Mr. Alexander
\Vinsor? A junior team will be organized during
vacation.

“Meadowbrook School will have the use of the
pond Mondays through Thursdays until four
o’clock except during holidays. As in past years,
winter sports members may use the pond during
these hours if confiicting in no way with the school.

“The Winter Carnival-will be Friday, Decem—
ber 30th, weather permitting.

“Our committee welcomes suggestions.”

Facilities
The problem of facilities, natural and artificial,
holds an important place.

GOLF AND COUNTRY CLUBS FOR WINTER SPORTS 623

Since skiing is our most popular winter sport,
we are first concerned with that activity. Its
prime prerequisite is a wide open slope, with a
grade of fifteen per cent or more. Golf courses
are happily adapted to this activity because of
their rugged topography and the smoothness of
their fairways, conditions which make it possible
to ski on as little as four inches of snow. (Some
ski instructors have intimated that all that is
needed to ski on golf terrain is a good heavy
frost.) Welcome additions to those who are un—
able to find the time to ski during the day time
the fioodlights on the slopes. This factor works
out particularly well on municipal courses where
there are apt to be large crowds on hand during
the evening sessions.

Ski Safety

A necessary precaution that must be taken is
the reservation of open slopes for skiing only.
An article from the Springfield Republican calls
attention to the danger of permitting skis and to-
boggans on the same slopes, and the importance
of park department supervision or a division of
the area with separate zones for each type of
winter sport.

Hockey and Curling ~

Throughout the country, ice skating and hockey
are giving its chief competitor, skiing, a real run
for being the most popular of our winter sports.
Since the weather conditions in Massachusetts
are favorable for the pursuit of this activity from
December through March, it should be of prime
importance in the winter programs of golf and
country clubs. While many of our courses pos—
sess natural water hazards, which may very con-
veniently be converted into skating rinks during
the winter, it has been found practical to tiood
tennis courts or level fairways to provide areas
for ice skating. Curling, a fine sport somewhat simi-
lar to that of bowling, should be encouraged and
instituted for those who have passed the summer
of their lives yet who wish to enjoy an afternoon
of brisk, invigorating exercise.

Tobogganing
Tobogganing and ski jump-
ing are winter recreations of
the thrill type and require arti-
ficial facilities and considerable
upkeep. Most tobogganing is
done in chutes which are con-

The material presented in this arti-
cle has been taken from a term paper
submitted by Mr. Conant in a Special
Problems Course in the Department
of Physical Education for MenI Massa-
chusetts State College. June I939.

structed so as to follow the contour of the hills
upon which they are laid. Some slides have highly
elevated trestles to gain their start, especially
where the topography is fairly level. Such a one
is found on the Northfield Golf Course, North—
field, Massachusetts.

The following is a short description of the lo-
cation and design of toboggan chutes from a paper
by Samuel P. Snow as published in the American
School and University:

“The toboggan slide often provides the incen-
tive which draws from the fireside those who lack
the enthusiasm necessary to participate in more
active sports.

“The first thing to look for in laying out any
sort of toboggan facility is a gently sloping hill
having a maximum gradient of not more than
forty per cent at its brow. Secondly, this hill
should preferably face to the north or the north-
east so that the ice in the chute will melt as little
as possible.

“The third requirement is at least a four inch
snowfall for the outrun of the chute. If there are
not four inches of snow on the ground at all times
there must be at least enough snowfall to main-
tain a course forty yards wide and four inches
deep at the end of the chute.

“The entire slide should be built straight. Al-
though topography tends to govern the location of
a chute, curves even though carefully designed by
an engineer make it possible for the toboggan to
go over the sides through carelessness or reck-
lessness.

“The chute should follow the natural contour
of the ground, including a few secondary places
to add variety and speed, thereby avoiding ugly
scaffolding and an accompanying increase in con-
struction costs. Some designers advocate building
a sudden drop or two on a toboggan chute, but
this is thought by the writer to be a poor policy.
The chute in general should be clear of trees and
other obstructions to prevent serious accidents in
case the toboggan should overturn.”

Ski Jumps
Unless the location is naturally situated and
unless the golf club desires to
go into the venture for profit,
no ski jump should exceed
thirty meters in size. Although
there is no definite limit or
size that might be said to be

(Continued on page 642)

A Shelf Show for Community Craftsmen

it is not too much to hope that a

Shelf Show may,some day, become a
community's permanent art exhibit

EOPLE USING their leisure hours in arts and

handicrafts work need conditions favorable

for increasing skills and knowledge; they
need appreciation and encouragement. It is not
always enough stimulus to continued effort for
them to display their work even once a year. More
frequent displays will not only arouse the com—
petitive “spurt,” but they will encourage a steady
effort to excel in skills, as well as supplying
greater satisfactions to the artisans and the local
citizens.

A Shelf Show is one means of displaying the
handiwork of a select group of eight to twelve
persons. The entire exhibit should be composed
of an arrangement of shelves with one shelf as-
signed to each individual exhibiting.

The purposes of a Shelf Show are many. It
provides a constant display of selected arts and
crafts articles, stimulating the interest of partici-
pants and observers. It encourages fine workman-
ship, promotes originality and creative skills, and
gives recognition to advanced students in the field.

The Shelf Show may be set up in a town of
5,000 or more population. Such an activity is an
excellent means of reaching persons in the com-
munity who are not directly served by the recrea—
tion centers and its leaders. Of course, the recrea-
tion supervisor and leaders, in cooperation with
the city council, should initiate the exhibit, work-
ing with a local art club, other organized clubs,
or a group of interested persons.

The first step is to inform the “key” persons of
the town—whether potential exhibitors o'r onlook-
ers—of the purpose of the Shelf Show. Next, the
leaders must find a group which is willing to
sponsor the show.

In arranging for the pre-
liminary exhibit (from which
the best craftsmen are chosen
for the Shelf Show), they
must select a centrally lo-
cated spot: the town library,
a store window, community
club room, or recreation cen-

624

Miss Sherburn. who has had a number of
years of experience as art and music in-
structor in the Emergency Adult Educa-
tion Project and as specialized super-
visor ot Arts and Crafts for WPA Rec-
reation Projects at Hastings. Nebraska.
is now specialized supervisor of the
state-wide crafts project in Nebraska.

By CORA SHERBURN
Lincoln. Nebraska

ter. The preliminary display may be a Shelf Show
contest, or a city-wide exhibit. The award basis
for the contest would be admittance to the Shelf
Show proper.

The next step is the construction of the shelves,
which may be of varying depth and height. They
should, however, accommodate at least twelve
articles, with background space and attached rods
for hanging textiles. They may be modernistic
cabinets, or set-back shelves in a group. Ivory or
French gray paint is generally preferred as a neu-
tral background for varied shapes, colors, and
textures. Often the shadows cast by the articles
add much to the display.

All through the preparation, publicity should be
circulated concerning the project. The leaders
must arrange for posters and news stories, prepare
a group of rules and qualifications and suitable
legends to explain the exhibits, as well as compile
a list of probable exhibitors who should receive
invitations to enter the Shelf Show preliminaries.
Possible channels for publicity are: newspaper
stories; folders 0r invitations announcing each
new group of Shelf Show exhibitors; lessons,
lectures, and illustrative material at the recreation
center, which will aid in increasing knowledge and
interest in various elements of the show.

In Lincoln, Nebraska, the criteria by which the .
craftsmen were judged were: native Nebraska }
craft media; Nebraska design motifs; originality I;
in model, design, and sketch (this eliminated copy
and pattern work); excellence of workmanship,
design, usefulness, beauty, and application of idea
to the art subject. The judging can be done by a .
selection committee. The members of this com--
mittee should have a thorough
knowledge of arts and crafts,
and skill in encouraging ex-
hibitors to greater effort.

After the final selections.
have been made for the first
Shelf Show, there should be
other contests at stated in-

(Continued on page 643)

Child Development Through Play and Recreation

“Play is the natural impulse of the child. It is the center of all interests and
activities to which other interests, even eating and sleeping, are often subordi- .
nate. When we speak of play, therefore, as a need of children, we speak about
that which to them is most important and most necessary, if they are to develop as
normal, healthy individuals.” This is the opening paragraph of a report from the
White House Conference on Children in a Democracy which allfriends of rec-
reation will be interested in seeing. It is possible here to present only a résumé.

eth, public spirited citizens from all parts of

the country gathered to hear and discuss re—
ports on various phases of child Welfare. An
earlier preliminary conference had been held on
April twenty—sixth, 1939. At one of the section
meetings a report on child development through
play and recreation was discussed by the dele-
gates present who had been invited to attend this
particular session, and a few changes were sug-
gested. At the main session of the Conference a
brief summary of this report was presented.

IN WASHINGTON, January eighteenth to twenti—

The Importance of Play

The report itself emphasized the importance of
play in the life of the child. “Recreation for chil-
dren in a democracy should reflect in its program,
organization, and operations those values which
are implicit in the democratic way of life. This
means, among other things, a program that
emerges from the life of the people; a leadership
that represents and releases the deepest needs and
interests of persons; a relationship with people in
the community that involves them in responsible
participation, both in planning and in manage-
ment; a form of administration that is democra-
tic, not autocratic; a method that utilizes group
experience and group channels in the total
process.”

Such an interpretation of recreation must rec-
ognize the importance of the family unit and of
facilities and services designed to meet the lei-
sure time needs of whole families. It must realize
the universality of the need for recreation and
the requirements of people of low as well as high
income, of all ages, of both sexes, of all sections
of the ccuntry, of occupational groups, and of
racial and ethnic backgrounds.

The Play and Recreation Needs of Children

The Conference recorded its recognition of the
significance of leisure. Paralleling the importance
of housing, health, and formal education are the
uses of free time. These include not only the per-
sonal and social values of play and recreation but
also the far reaching individual and group out-
comes of informal education programs for chil-
dren and youth in our democracy.

“All children and youth need experience through
which their elemental desire for friendship, rec-
ognition, adventure, creative expression, and
group acceptance can be realized. Normal family
life contributes much toward meeting these basic
emotional needs. Voluntary participation in in-
formal education and recreation under favorable
conditions also contributes greatly toward this
same result. They help to meet certain develop-
mental needs, the need of congenial companion-
ship with both sexes, the need for emotional de—
velopment and a healthy independence, as well as
other needs that arise at different stages in the
individual’s passage toward maturity. They fur-
nish, finally, an important means whereby the
child can express his functional need for the de-
velopment of motor, manual, and artistic skills,
for contact with nature, for creative contempla-
tion, for nonvocational learning, for the socializ—
ing experience of group life, and for responsible
participation in community life.”

If these important needs are to be met, Certain
basic instruments are necessary.

The Committee lists among these requirements
time for play; places in which children can move
freely and safely; play areas and play materials
which they can use by themselves; and opportuni-
ties for self-expression and spontaneous play.

625

626 CHILD DEVELOPMENT THROUGH PLAY AND RECREATION

In spite of the progress which has been made in
the multiplication of facilities, in the enactment of
enabling legislation, in the enrichment of the rec-
reation program, and in the training of leaders,
there are still many unmet needs and‘ there are
groups of children who have fewer than average
opportunities for participation in a recreation pro—
gram. The Committee cites the needs still exist—
ing among children of families of low income
groups; the lack of adequate facilities and lead—
ership for Negro children especially in the south—
ern states; the failure to provide more effectively
for children in rural areas particularly in non-
farm rural areas, in migratory families, and in
families living in depressed rural communities.
Children in slum areas in large cities are suffer-
ing from lack of playground and park areas.

The Committee also points to the needs of chil-
dren in certain age groups—of the pre—school
child for whom programs are the exception rather
than the rule; of young people leaving school for
whom social contacts and recreation are essential;
of girls who do not yet have recreational advan-
tages comparable with those accorded boys; and
of children with special problems whose needs
call for an expanded and concerted effort and
planning among welfare and educational and rec—
reational agencies. “The needs of these groups
constitute a challenge to our democracy. Play is
as vital to the child’s developing personality as
food is to his growing body. Children are chil—
dren but once. Their time is play time.”

Recreation for All

Communities desiring to give specific attention
to existing inequalities of play and recreational
opportunities for children are urged in the Com—
mittee’s report to take stock of their own situa-
tions and to give consideration to careful plan—
ning along a number of lines.

Playground areas of primary schools and the
buildings and grounds of
secondary and consolidated
schools should be open and
under supervision for com—
munity use after school
hours, at week—ends, on
holidays, in summer and
winter.

Legislative action should
be sought by agencies of all
kinds which will make pos-
sible cooperative action be-

"Play and recreation in and of themselves
have values for the individual. To empha-
size recreation as a means of reducing or
preventing juvenile delinquencyl of devel-
oping character and citizenship. or achiev-
ing some other worthy end. is to slur over
its essential characterI its developmental
and creative role as playI tun, relaxation.
release, ioy. Play and recreation are part of
the soil in which personality grows. Their cen-
tral significance lies in the fact that it is dur-
ing leisure one is most free to be himself.’l

tween school and recreation agencies. Joint plan-
ning groups in which city and county agencies
participate might well be set up, in the opinion of
the Committee, to help provide for children out—
side city limits and in adjacent rural areas and to
give consideration to long—range planning.

All recreation programs for children should in—
corporate in their programs the active use of
libraries, museums, health agencies, schools, parks.
art schools and galleries, and social recreation fa-
cilities in'the furtherance of a total community
recreation program.

Children should have access to book collections
so essential to the fostering of good reading
habits and the exploration of individual interest
and hobbies. “All recreation agencies will enrich
their programs by establishing close associations
with public libraries.”

Municipal and county parks and forest agen—
cies, in collaboration with similar national and
state agencies, should provide park and camping

.areas especially for low—income and minority

groups.

Housing development should be encouraged to
enter into cooperative agreement with local com—
munities so that established standards of recrea—
tion facilities will become effective for housing
residents and the entire neighborhood. Methods
of providing garden plots for people living in
crowded areas should be explored.

Recreational activities should be planned and
carried out to meet the physical and psychological
needs of children of all age groups.

It is further suggested that special emphasis be
given to public education in the value and im—
portance of leisure time through farm journals,
the press, and radio; to parent education in the
fields of mental hygiene and the play needs of '
children at various age levels; to school recreation
programs and their extension to recent gradu-
ates; and to general training in the principles and '

programs of recreation for I

all rural workers in child
welfare, teachers, extension
workers, ministers, health ‘
officials, volunteers, librari-
ans, and social service work-
ers. Civic orchestras, peo-
ple’s theaters, and art mu—
seums should be' organized
and maintained fcpr the en-
joyment of all.

F

CHILD DEI’ELOPJl/ENT THROUGH PLAY AND RECREATION

Education in the Selection
of Leisure Pursuits

In the opinion of the Com-
mittee, public and private
leisure-time agencies would
profit by reconsidering their
attitude toward various kinds
of commercial recreation,
adopting a positive approach
in which a sustained effort
should be made to assist all consumers in their
choice of play and leisure activities.

The Committee further stresses the value of a
leisure-time information service directed to fami-
lies, which would cover the following fields:

Current motion pictures, radio prOgrams, maga-
zines, books, periodicals, lectures, concerts, plays,
and exhibits.

Standards for selecting toys for children and
information on inexpensive game equipment for
home use.

Places of interest to visit; low—cost vacation
places for week-ends and holidays; interesting
drives and excursions, picnic spots, trails, nature
museums, and sports areas.

Location and programs of community centers,
sports areas, nursery schools, childrenfs play cen-
ters, parent education classes, workshops, com—
munity festivals and play days, settlement houses,
and educational and recreation centers.

Formation of groups for listening to radio pro-
grams and discussing movies; formation of com-
mittees of parents to advise with operators of
commercial amusements.

The directing of children and parents to public
libraries and inexpensive juvenile book depart-
ments ; encouraging the public library to establish
browsing libraries in recreation centers; and the
creation of toy lending libraries.

Formation of and leadership assistance to vol-
unteer groups who undertake some responsibility
in supplying information to the central service.-

Qualified Leadership

“The key to a. successful play and recreation
program is leadership,” states the report. “The
leadership of volunteer play and recreation groups
requires persons of rich background and experi-
ence sensitive to individual as well as group needs
and proficient in several recreation skills.” Ac-
cordingly, the maintenance of standards which
have been established is of primary importance. The
Committee urges that preparation for all leaders

"Recreational activities should be de-
signed to stimulate cooperative en-
deavor, to give immediate satisfying ex-
periences. to utilize local resources. and
to build interests which can be enjoyed
further in later years, such as music'
drama. art. discussion and reading. as
well as active games and sports. They
should offer many opportunities for boys
and girls to work and play together.”

627

in community play and rec-
reation “should be generally
comparable in amount and
thoroughness to that required
for the profession most
closely related to it—namely,
public education.”

As rapidly as possible, rec-
reation positions paid by pub-
lic funds should be placed
under a merit system. Training for recreation
workers and in~service training should be en-
couraged.

Planning for the Play and Recreation
Needs of Children

“Recreation requires planning on a national,
regional, state. and community basis, and such
planning to be effective calls for the collaboration
of public, private, non-profit, and commercial
agencies.” While urging the recognition of the
development of recreation and the constructive
use of leisure time as a public responsibility on a
par with responsibility for education and health,
the Committee acknowledges the contribution
made by voluntary associations and organizations
and their continued functioning. “Groups of citi-
zens also acting through private agencies should
assume a part of this responsibility, because of
the historic role of private agencies in experimen—
tation and the development of standards, and in
order to provide a continuous channel for the
voluntary participation characteristic of a demo—
cratic society.”

The distinctions between public and private
agencies in the field of recreation are becoming
less important, the report further points out. “Of
greater concern is the provision of opportunities
for the entire population and cooperative intelli-
gent planning for them. The particular importance
of private agencies lies in the fact that they pro-
vide a medium through which groups of citizens
through voluntary effort can identify, interpret,
and seek to meet some specialized community
need. Particularly is this the case in relation to
areas of activity which are resisted or as yet are
unrecognized by the larger community. Private
agencies also play a vital role because they have
emphasized responsibility and participation on the
part of volunteers, have provided joint policy and
program planning on a continuous basis, and have
brought volunteer and professional leaders into

( C ontiimed on page 643)

A Ten -Year Park Program

5 A RESULT of the 1938
A election, and in ac-
cordance with in-
structions of the City
Council, the Planning
Commission of Portland,
Oregon, was authorized to
review the findings of a
park report prepared in
1936. It was also author-
ized to work with the Fed-
erated Community Clubs
in studying the program. The Federated Com-
munity Clubs had sponsored a referendum on the
charter amendment authorizing a .4 mill tax levy
for park purposes, designed to yield approxi-
mately $100,000 a year for ten years.

On May 3rd the Federated Community Clubs
presented its report to the Planning Commission.
This was followed by a series of hearings at
which the various zone chairmen working under
this central committee were heard. Then followed
a thorough field inspection on the part of the
members of the Parks Committee of the Planning
Commission and a careful study of land values,
population distribution, present land usage and
other factors affecting the various sites by the
staff of the Planning Commission.

After a check of the report of the Community
‘ Clubs, the City Planning Commission’s Parks
Committee presented its finding to the Community
Clubs group for re-study in the light of obtaining
certain refinements in the plan in order to secure
an even spread of recreational areas in the city-
wide plan and in order to secure the most eco-
nomical plan by avoiding any duplication of ser-
vice. This process of re-planning the plan in-
volved a series of nine meetings with the Com-
munity Clubs Committee on Parks.

ning of programs.

Principles Involved in the City-Wide Plan

I. The elementary school grounds and existing
park playgrounds should form the backbone of
the recreational system for children of elementary
age. It anticipates the coordination of all school
grounds and park playgrounds in a unified sys-
tem. This will make it possible to obtain an eco-
nomical spread of service throughout the city with

628

The City Planning Commission of Portland.
Oregon, has issued a recommended ten-year
park program proposed under authority of land
charter amendment and approved by refer- '
endum vote November 3. I938. The methods
of procedurel the principles involved in the
selection of sites' and the policy of finan-
cial disbursements are of interest to execu-
tives and officials concerned with the plan-
Further information in
regard to the plan may be secured from

Charles McKinleyI City Planning Commission.

savings of many thousands
of dollars in acquisition of

2. The plans would em-
brace the entire urban area
and provide units of suit-
able location and size for
all age groups.

3. Neighborhood parks
as well as playgrounds for
children should be located
in connection with the ele-
mentary schools in order to have in addition to
basic playground facilities other features for all
age groups within half a mile. The school house
can thus be used as a community house without
expensive duplication of buildings.

4. In addition to the primary playground sys-
tem there is need for additional playgrounds to
supplement the primary playgrounds, particularly
in areas of dense population. These are especially
valuable in summer months and will have a basic
service radius of a quarter mile.

Playfields serving youth of high school age and
adults are based on a one-mile service area. These
provide space for the various sports. The basis
for a system of playfields is the high school plant.
However, extra playfields on special sites are
sometimes needed to provide extra service. By
judicious arrangement in the city-wide plant a
complete service for all age groups can be ob-
tained. In this plan certain sites will be single
duty (playground); double duty (playground- -
neighborhood park) or triple duty (playground-
playfield-neighborhood park).

The income from the .4 mill tax levy, approxi-
mately $100,000 each year for ten years, is to be
spent primarily for the acquisition of sites. This
includes the purchase of new sites, the extension
of school sites, and other features. This phase of
policy represents some departure from the original
plan that was made in 1936.

A complete list of the proposed new sites with
descriptions and location is given. The document
contains maps indicating the location of the exist-
ing and proposed sites.

(Continued on page 644)

I
t
i

 

Square Dancing

Some very practical advice
for those seeking the best
possible way to get a maxi-
mum of enjoyment from the
old-time square dances so

I popular in earlier days

l 1’ PLAY PARTY” games are neither barn dances

nor square dances. Highly enjoyable as

they are, they are not the type of dance that
was danced throughout America when this coun-
try was in the process of settling down.

After you have danced the simple circle-type
dances, you may feel the desire to enter the field
of real old-time square dancing. If it is a new
experience for you, you will be carried away with
the pure fun of doing the various figures. Every-
one, from nine years up, likes square dancing——
provided the dances are pr0perly taught. Young
people take readily to this form of dance when
they have been carefully instructed. Square danc-
ing is an activity that can be used frequently in
planning recreation for them. As a mixer it is
ideal. It serves to break down the reserve so
often present in the modern “social” dances, and
tends to eliminate “wall Howers.” If there is an
excess number of girls, they can dance together
and enjoy the unusual experience of learning the
girls’ and the boys’ parts.

Probably the best way to become eXperienced
in calling square dances is to attend square dances

.until you become familiar with the calls and know

how to teach the various movements. If no such
opportunity presents itself in your community,
you will find a great deal of help in the literature
on square dancing. For a start. Kit T of the
Handy II series, which costs twenty—five cents
and is published by the Cooperative Recreation
Service, Delaware, Ohio, will be helpful. You
may be able to find reference material on your
library’s shelves, or you may be fortunate enough
to discover an “old-timer” who can be of assist—
ance to you.

Start with a small group and teach the dances
thoroughly. If you can get about eight persons,
or at the most sixteen, who will agree to meet for

ls Fun, But--
Teach an Easy One First!

By HOMER F. DAVIS
George Williams College
ChicagoI Illinois

two or three nights, you all can learn enough for
safe teaching of larger groups. The process grows
on itself, for each learner in turn becomes a
teacher.

I recall that I was not particularly fond of
square dancing when a boy on the farm, because
I rarely understood the caller and seldom knew
what to do when I did understand him. There
were no teachers, as we understand teaching. One
learned by experience. and when we continually
became confused, much to the disgust of the older
people, we gradually gave up square dancing. For
this reason, every call should be given loudly and
clearly. Avoid fancy language and jingles until
your group is well enough along to appreciate the
little “nonsense” that creeps into the various calls
and adds color to the calling. But above all, be
sure your group knows what each call means and
can execute the figure promptly. Otherwise the
dancers will become confused, and, if they do
manage to complete the figure, they will not be
ready for the next one at the proper time.

The art of imitation must be used in teaching
the square. Take the dance apart, bit by bit, and
have the group walk through the parts until they
know them each by name, and they will gain the
thrill that comes with doing the dances correctly
in the proper time. You must be careful not to
keep the dancers so long on drill that they become
tired and disinterested, but at the same time you
should avoid leaving a dance too soon. It is an—
noying to the dancers to spend time learning a
dance. only to have the instructor switch to some—
thing else just as they would cnjoy practicing
what they have learned.

Once again, I advise you to teach each figure
so that the dancers will understand it thoroughly
and can go through it quickly and correctly when
the call is given. Some of the more difficult figures

629

630 SQUARE DANCING 1S FUN, BUT-—TEACH AN EASY ONE FIRST!

can be omitted until your group can do the easier
dances fairly well. If they enjoy the easier ones
they will probably ask for the more difficult ones
as they progress. A good practice is to repeat the
dances you have taught, adding one new one
each time.

“Allemande left” is a figure that seems to bother
the beginner, yet I have taught a large group to
do this figure in a short time. It is really simple
to execute, but it can be quite confusing, and no
one can do what he does not understand. There-
fore, take five or ten minutes at the start of the
dance to have the group walk through the move—
ment until everyone has a good understanding of
it and can move into it quickly when “allemande
left” is called. This is a call which is used so
much, particularly in the middle west, that it
should be learned so well that it becomes an auto—
matic movement. Then, of course, your dancers
must learn the grand march, or “grand right and
left.” This should not be hard, especially if the
group has been dancing the circle dances where
the figure is used often.

A few minutes’ instruction in the proper way
to swing will be helpful. There are two ways to
swing, and the chances are that if your dancers
are left to themselves they will use both ways—
some swinging on the inner foot as a pivot, and
some using both feet to take quick little steps as
they move around in a small circle. In teaching
the first method, I instruct the girls to bend
slightly backward and to keep the inner foot as
still as possible. using it as a pivot. This will add
grace and ease to the swing. It should be freely
executed, with no hopping or stiffness. But do
not worry if the swinging is a little “hoppy” at
first. As the dancers gain more experience, many
of the rough spotsr will automatically disappear. I
find that two or three complete turns are enough
in the swings of the average dance, although in
some communities they swing and swing.

Later on “right and left through,” “do-si-do”
(really a beautiful figure), and other calls can be
learned, but avoid attempting these figures at the
beginning.

Bear in mind that many of the squares can be
modified to fit the experience of
the group. A swing may be
eliminated here, a “circle four”
there and so on. With further
experience your group will ex—
pect these more difficult figures,
and will have built up adequate

"Try this easy square dance first."
is Mr. Davis' advice. "Your group
will love it. If you are a begin-
ner or an advanced square dancer.
one who knows his Ido-si-dos.I
you will find if a lot of fun."

preparation. The first square you try should be
an easy one. I know of no easier yet no more ‘
popular square than “Bow a little, jig a little,
swing a little.” which has been a favorite wher-
ever I have used it. It involves no difficult figure
and includes “allemande left” and “grand right ‘
and left.” Its ease of execution and the enjoy— '
ment derived from it will give the dancers con-
fidence and make them ask for more.
Here are the calls:

Introduction and Chorus

I. All eight balance and all eight swing.

2. Allemande left, right hand to your partner, r
and a grand right and left. ,

3. Meet your honey and promenade eight till you
come straight.

Change Call

4. First couple balance and first couple swing.
5. First gent lead out to the right of the ring.
6. Now bow a little, jig a little, swing a little.
7. On to the next. .

8. Now bow a little, jig a little, swing a little.
9. On to the next.
10. Now bow a little, jig a little, swing a little.
11. Home you go and everybody swing.

Then (2) and (3) are called, after which the
second couple balances and swings and the second
gent goes around in the ring in the same manner
as the first gent did. After all the men have gone
around, it is the ladies’ turn, beginning with the
first lady. The dance is ended with the chorus call.

Explanation of the calls:

( 1) Partners back away from each other a step
or two and bow, after which they swing for two
or three complete turns in place.

(2) Each gentleman turns to the lady on his
left, takes her left hand in his left hand, and turns
her completely around in place, counter-clockwise,
so that he comes back face to face with his own
partner, who meanwhile has been turned by the
gentleman on her right. He then takes his part— .
11er’s right hand in his right hand, passes her, gives
the next lady his left hand, the next his right, and
so on, until he meets his own partner half way
around the ring.

One way to help the men
with this call is to interpret it
to them as “all the men left.”
In spite of this, some will stick
out the right hand and get all

(Continued on, page 646)

i
i
i

: A s A GREEK I feel I can speak

"Places of Children's Joy”

freely of a subject near

to my heart—training for
physical fitness ' via children’s
playgrounds in my native land.
The ancient “glory that was
Greece” has lived thrOUgh the
ages in the minds of the world
as a three-fold symbol of civi-
lization representing highly developed forms of
government, art and sports. Words such as
“Olympic” and “Marathon” had their origin in
Greece. Perfect physical development was an
ideal in those days. The word “Spartan,” which
refers to the heroic mothers of Sparta in ancient
Greece, still stands for the epitome of physical
endurance. We Greeks indeed have a heritage of
physical fitness.

In order to understand what has happened to
that heritage it is necessary to know what has been
occurring in Greece and the Near Eastern coun-
tries during the last five hundred years, and more
particularly during the years since the beginning
of this century. Ottoman supremacy‘ swept over
the Near East conquering as it went and subju-
gating as it stayed. All the countries of the
Eastern Mediterranean, from the Balkans to
Egypt, became subject to Islam, and under
that rule native civilizations became atrophied.
Then revolts began, and one by one the countries
fought for independence and won. Greece gained
her independence in 1830 and since then has been
struggling to gain something of her former
strength. It was an uphill struggle, for she was
very poor and had to start

By DEMITRIOS Lezos

"It is heart-warming indeed to
hear our refugee mothers refer
to the playgrounds as 'places

of children's joy."

At that time the Near East-
ern countries presented a pic-
ture unparalleled in the world’s
history. They were a seething
mass of shifting peoples. Nearly
everyone was a refugee. Greece.
with a population of live mil-
lions, Opened her doors to re-
ceive 1,500,000 of the Heeing
hordes. It was a tremendous undertaking to ac-
cept and assimilate into the national life of the
country a group of poverty-stricken pe0ple num-
bering one-fourth of her normal population. \Vith-
out outside aid such as was given by the Refugee
Settlement Commission and various charitable or-
ganizations, it never could have been done.

Foremost among these organizations was the
American Near East Relief, later becoming the
Near East Foundation, which cared for the refu-
gees in Greece and seven other Near Eastern
countries and set up orphanages in Greece for
17,000 of its huge family of 132,000 orphan chil-
dren. Later, when the orphanages were liquidated
and the children were outplaced into industry or
home life, the Americans turned their energies to
working with the refugee people in their desper-
ate endeavor to make a living in a new environ—
ment and to aid the governments, through demon-
stration projects, to improve the health and social
and economic status of the people. This is being
done through more than thirty projects in hygiene,
agriculture,-sanitation, malaria control, child and
home welfare, youth training, village culture and
recreation, which have greatly aided these people.
Physical education has

from the beginning to_or-
ganize educational, social
and economic life for her
people. Early in this cen-
tury matters were compli-
cated by inter-Balkan
strife over boundaries.
Then came the World
War, which persisted long
after 1918 in the Greco-
Turkish conflict, which
was not ended until 1922
with the sacking of
Smyrna.

The author, a refugee from Turkey, has worked
for the welfare of Greek children since I922
when, a student at Roberts College. he was em-
ployed by the Near East Relief to help convoy
22,000 children from American orphanages in
the war-torn interior of Asia Minor to places
of safety, following the close of the Greco-
Turkish War. A great believer in the vital part
play has in promoting health and happiness,
Mr. Lezos has worked tirelessly to establish
playgrounds and to persuade a government
preoccupied with caring for a million and a
half refugees to include in its educational pro-
gram provision for playgrounds. He is now

serving as director of the first playground set
up in Athens by the Near East Foundation.

been of paramoum impor-
tance in the programs of
both the N ear East Relief
and the Near East Foun-
dation. The first play—
grounds seen in modern
Greece were those in the
compounds of the Ameri—
can orphanages. I recall
those children, literally
thousands of them, strong
and joyous in their or—
ganized play. It was not
long, once they had recov—

631

632 “PLACES OF CHILDREN’S JOY”

ered from the long trek from Asia Minor, before
they were the healthiest Children in all Greece.

The government viewed these playgrounds with
interest. In the minds of many officials there was
undoubtedly the wish that some of the money
which had to be used too sparingly in the practi-
cal jobs of settling the refugees and building up
the economic and educational life of the country
could be diverted to the health-promoting, joy-
provoking work of recreation.

\Vhen a demonstration in tuberculosis control
was started in the city of Athens ten years ago, a
playground was attached to and made part of that
demonstration. Eighteen acres of land at the foot
of Mt. Hymettus and facing the Acropolis were
contributed by the government. The property was
adjacent to the great Kessariani refugee camp
where 45,000 persons were living in the utmost
squalor in a community of tents, shacks and con—
verted barracks. The plight of the children was
particularly pitiful. They were in rags. Natur-
ally, with parents working from dawn till dark
to earn a few pennies for food, they were ne-
glected. There was no place for them to play
except in the muddy alleys between the shacks
where sanitation conditions were unspeakable.

The equipment of the playground was made
possible through the generosity of an American,
A. A. Hyde of Kansas City, Kansas, and it was
opened with impressive ceremonies. The children
streamed in, thousands of them, enchanted with
their first sight of the swings, slides, giant strides,
traveling rings, sand boxes and all the other para-
phernalia. The older girls and boys were equally
delighted with the playfields for soccer, volley-
ball, basketball, paddle tennis and deck tennis.
The showers fascinated everybody, parents in-
cluded, and as the program, which included not
only the calisthenics and games, but dances,
drama, music, lectures, movies and handcrafts,
continued, the playground become a true com-
munity center for the entire neighborhood.

On the playing fields young athletes prepare
for the modern Balkan Olympics, and they are
fast winning a place for Greece that is reminiscent
of ancient times. Working boys and girls from
the centers established by the Near East Founda-
tion come there for the re—
laxation necessary to offset
their long hours in factories
and ShOpS.

It has been my good for-
tune to be attached to this

Last year Mr. Lezos spent six months
traveling about this country observ-
ing American playgrounds and familiar-
izing himself with American methods of
organizing and administering recreation.

epoch-making project since its inception and to
have been trained for the work under the able
leadership of its former director, A. Asthalter of
Scarsdale, N. Y., formerly American indoor ten-
nis champion. Under his tutelage I received my
first instruction in modern methods of physical
instruction.

There are a few activities connected with our
work in Athens that I would like to mention par-
ticularly. One is a kindergarten for 250 of 0m
tiniest children, which the children love and which
is also a great boon to the mothers who must go
out to work all day and who are comforted by
the security of their little ones. Our summer
camps for some 3,000 working boys and girls,
by the sea not far from Old Phaleron, has saved
many a work—weary and lonely young person
from ill health and unhappiness. Last year, for
the first time, we gathered up eighty-five of our
smallest and poorest children and took them away
for a few weeks from the pitiless dust and heat
of Athens to the cool, clean breezes of the sea.
These children were not big enough to go into the
camps for the older boys and girls and we had no
equipment to care for them, nor any funds at all
for the experiment. It was only the desperate
need of the children that made us attempt it. When
they saw what we were trying to do, the older
camps lent us a little equipment, and friends came
forward with small sums of money, so that we
got through the experience without mishap. And
our reward was in the glowing health and high
spirits of those little tots when we finally got them
back to Athens. If we can possibly raise the
money we hope to give this privilege next sum-
mer to I50 of our neediest children.

The initial endeavor on the part of our Ameri-
can friends is bearing fruit. There are now twelve
municipal playgrounds in Athens patterned after
the original one in Kessariani, and others are in
prospect. The summer camps have proved so
beneficial to the young workers that employers
are now helping financially so that more boys and
girls may enjoy the privilege.

In June, after his return to Athens, Mr. Lezos
wrote the National Recreation Association that
plans were under way for a
playground exhibition in
which 2500 girls and boys
would take part in a pro—
gram of gymnastics, games '
and national dances.

WORLD AT PLAY

Stx BIRD feeding sta-
tions, each measuring
about eight feet square,
have been installed in
Watchung Reservation of the Union County
(N Park Commission. The feeding stations,
constructed in the form of a small coop, are about
eighteen inches high and have a peaked roof with
a three to five inch overhang to keep rain and
snow off the food supplies. The roof is con.-
structed so that grain may be poured into a hop-
per which supplies the feeding pans by gravity.
In addition to the grain various kinds of greens
donated by local stores are scattered near the feed-
ing stations. Volunteer help through Boy and
Girl Scout troops, 4-H Clubs, and garden and
nature clubs simplify winter feeding. In the
December 8 issue of Our Parks an appeal is made
for anyone wishing to assist by donating and dis-
tributing foods for birds and animals to get in
touch with the Park Commission’s office.

Feeding Stations
for Birds

THE DETROIT, Michi-
gan, Department of
Recreation will con-
struct seventy large
ice skating rinks this winter on its own and school
property, eliminating small rinks on private prop-
erty. The rinks will be approximately 150 by 300
feet and will be situated in the center of one-mile
areas.

Ice Skating Rinks
for Detroit

THE BOARD of Edu-
cation in Lancaster,
Pennsylvania, deter-
mined recently tO dis-
cover how the social agencies affect the boys and
girls of the community. In order to secure sta-
tistics for the executives and board members of
the character building agencies of the Welfare
Federation, they distributed check cards to all of
the school children. The total number of cards
turned in was 6,391. The use of playgrounds was
checked on 4,546; 2,206 showed daily use, 1,392
twice a week, and 930 once a week. Of 5,537
cards (excluding the returns from the 854 pa-
rochial school children), 4,833 denoted Sunday
School attendance. The weekly attendance out of

For the Children
of Lancaster

this total was 4,103 a fact which has a great sig-
nificance and many implications as to the character
of family life in Lancaster.

 

IN THE fall of 1937,
according to the an-
nual report issued by
the South Bend, In-
diana, Department of Public Recreation, a num-
ber of boys requested the organization of a
taxidermy club whose purpose would be to interest
boys in the various phases of animal life. Since
that time the club has grown from eight to thirty
members. Nature study hikes are conducted, and
different types of insects and animals are cap-
tured and brought to the center where the mem-
bers, who are quite skilled, mount them.

Taxidermy Club
for Boys

DAY CAMPING is a
form of recreation
that lends itself to ex-
isting circumstances,
and, from reports, promises to grow more rapidly
in the future. Seven hundred and forty-one let-
ters were sent over the United States inquiring
into day camping projects, and replies disclosed
that eighty-one cities have one or several day
camps operated by various organizations, as com-
pared to forty—one cities with no such plans. The
Girl Scouts report that they have 435 day camps
throughout the country with an attendance of
42,577 Scouts and 6,511 non-Scouts, making a
total of 49,088 girls at their camps. From Pro-
ceedings of the Sixth Annual 'Oufdoor Recreation
Conference.

Day Camping Grows
in Popularity

AT T1112 \Villowwood
Community House in
Birmingham, Ala-
bama, there is a D0-
As-You-Please Club which in its brief existence
has recruited twenty—four grandmothers — and
being a grandmother is the only requirement for
membership. Here grandmothers chat, crochet,
knit, play cards and other games, sing, or do any-
thing they wish whenever they wish.

Why not more clubs of this kind in our muni-
cipal recreation systems?

Only Grandmothers
May Join I

633

634 WORLD A T PLA Y

   

    
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
 
   
 

Gardening
School-Community-Home

0 The newest publication of the
National Recreation Association
is devoted to the subject of gar—
dening. It discusses gardening
in schools and by community
organizations other than the
schools, demonstration, group
and tract gardens for children,
and children's home gardens;
gardening indoors, adult gar-
dens, and elementary garden
practice. A number of sample
programs are given, and sources
-of help are listed. The booklet is

attractively illustrated.

Price $.50

NATIONAL RECREATION
A S S O C I A T I O N

   

315 Fourth Avenue

New York City

A Play Writing Contest — The Religious
Drama Council of the Greater New York Federa-
tion of Churches announces its annual play writ-
ing contest which began December I 5, 1939 and
will close April 15, I940. The plays submitted
must be one-act plays not exceeding one hour’s
playing time. The plays must be especially de-
signed for church production by children, young
people, or adults. They may be Biblical, historical
(based on the lives of the saints or heroes), or
modern plays, but “they must give expression to
Christian conviction and faith in the face of
modern problems.” Suggested themes for topics
are “The Spirit of Christ in the World Today,”
“Peace,” “Christian Unity,” and “Christianity and
Democracy.” Further information may be se-
cured from the Play Writing Contest Committee,
Religious Drama Council of the Greater New
York Federation of Churches, 71 \Vest 23rd
Street, New York: City.

Hobby Classes in Colleges ~l)r. Samuel N.
Stevens. dean of University College at North-
western University, has recommended that courses
in the selection and pursuit of hobbies be made a

part of the nation’s college curricula. “A hobby
may keep a man broke,” he said, “but it will also
keep him mentally alive. It drains off dammed up
energies which could not be released in the busi-
ness world, stimulates him socially by contact with
other enthusiasts, and increases his mental alert-
ness as more and more helds of knowledge are
involved.” Dr. Stevens, whose own hobby is
reading photostatic copies of old Greek and Latin
manuscripts, made his recommendations after
making a survey of the recreational interests of
1,500 university students. The study disclosed
that 633, or nearly half, have no hobbies.

-A Community Center Assured for Centralia
-——-On November 14, 1939, a $40,000 bond issue for
a community center in Centralia, Illinois, was
passed with the majority of live to one. The bond
issue augments a WPA allocation of $55,000 in
labor and materials for construction.

Libraries That Travel About—By an ingen-
ious system North Carolina is providing books for
many people in the state. The North Carolina
Library Commission started a demonstration
“bookmobile”——1ibrary on wheels—in July, 1936.
Since then this Ford truck, with a special unit
built to carry books on outside shelving, has
traveled 40,000 miles in twenty-six counties. It
shares the work with twenty-eight other book-
mobiles, some of them renovated school buses,
which cover the roads of North Carolina. The
present problem is providing enough books, al-
though each bookmobile carries several hundred
books on the shelves, with extra books stored in—
side to answer special requests and to refill the
shelves. Regular trips, announced in advance, are
scheduled, and the units stop at country stores,
cross roads filling stations, homes, schools, and
libraries to distribute the free books to eager bor-
rowers. Often collections of books are left so
farmers may exchange with each other until every
one has read them, and each trip of the book-
mobile brings a fresh supply. In a state with a
predominance of rural people, the most economie
cal and satisfactory plan for library service is by
means of bookmobiles and county stations. The
cost of operation, twenty dollars a month for each
unit, is met through the appropriation for county
library service. From Popular Government.

Will We Go for “Go”?——Go, the oldest in-
tellectual game in the world and the favorite pas-

 

WORLD AT PLAY 535

time of the Japanese, may become a popular

American game, according to chess experts who

attended the demonstration and general playing

period at the Japan Institute in New York City.
This recent exhibition attracted more than a hun-
dred American devotes of this intricate, 4,000—
year-old game. Go is played on a large board,
eighteen blocks square, with black and white
counters.

Hiking in Union County, New Jersey—The

Union County Hiking Club, sponsored by the
Union County, New Jersey, Park Commission,
has scheduled a series of hikes from early Octo-
ber until the middle of December. The objective
of the first hike on October 3rd was a broad
plateau almost 1.400 feet high in Bergen County.
The hike involved nine miles of walking, for the
most part on a mountain top along picttlresque
winding paths linking abandoned farms. Trans—
portation was provided for hikers without cars, all
of Whom brought their lunches. Residents of
Union County may secure advance notices of each
hike on request from the Park Commission.

Favorite Italian Pastime—Bocce is a Roman
game which was played long before the time of
Nero, who had terraces built especially for this
game. Today, the older Italian residents of Phila-
delphia still name bocce as their favorite sport,
and they sometimes play from early morning until
dusk. There are two to four men on a bocce team,
and the rival leaders pick sides by throwing hn-
gers. They often use a belt to measure balls near
the object ball. In one section of Philadelphia,
Italian interest in bocce is so high that players
have formed an Italian bocce club.

A Camp in a National Forest—Camp Oua-
chita, Arkansas. in the national forest of that
name, is forty-two miles west of Little Rock in
the Perry County section of the Ozark foothills.
The camp overlooks the pine clad banks of man-
made Lake Sylvia of twenty-two acres. created
from the dammed up waters of a mountain
stream. The Great Hall for recreation and din-
ing service, with its cypress beamed roof and large
natural l'lCld stone hreplaces. has proved an ideal
center for leadership training in social recreation,
folk dancing. and other activities. Twenty-four
permanent screened cabins of field stone and
cypress construction, together with four shower
houses, unit shelter houses. ice house, hospital

  

As Originally
Developed by . . .

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity

Basketball Coach
University 0] Kansas
Lawrence, Kansas

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
round indoor and outdoogglay-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be play by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating
exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG

(Manufactured Under Exclusive License_Agreemont)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
 DeKalb Street D I. D a -

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

 

 

unit. and a caretaker’s lodge, are located on a
thirty acre tract in the forest. The camp has been
used during the past season for leadership train-
ing by a number of groups. including the Recre—
ation Section, Division of Professional and Ser-
vice Projects, VVPA of Arkansas, and the Girl
Scouts, Inc.. Dixie Region. There were summer
camping periods for 172 Girl Scouts, and during
the last three weeks of August a cooperative camp
was operated for seventy-hive less privileged girls,
sponsored by the Little Rock Council of Social
Agencies. The program consisted of waterfront
activities. hiking. outdoor cooking. horseback rid-
ing. handcraft. folk dancing, dramatics. and
nature study.

Safety Convention to Be Held—The Greater
New York Safety Convention and Exhibition will
be htld at the Hotel Pennsylvania and Governor
Clinton Hotel. New York City, on April 16, I7
and 18. 1940. This will be the eleventh annual
convention held by the Greater New York Safety
Council. Last year there were forty-eight sessions

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

a St. Louis. Mo.

636 CHARLES NAGEL

Charles Nagel

 

Copyright by Harris Ewing

HARLES N.\GEI.. Secretary of Commerce and
Labor in President Taft’s cabinet, died in St.
Louis, Missouri, on January 5th.

Charles Nagel was one of the pioneers in the
playground and recreation movement, serving for
many years as an honorary member of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. He helped in rais-
ing funds for its work. Charles Nagel and Joseph
Lee had been friends for years.

Mr. Nagel was often called the father of the
Chamber of Commerce of the United States, be—
cause an address which he delivered at Boston in
1912 had much to do with the establishment of
that organization.

The national recreation movement through the
years has been fortunate in having the active sup-

port of so many leaders of the type of Charles
Nagel.

—_—________________________—
—____________________

with 200 speakers and presiding officers, a regis-
tration of over 5,000 and an attendance of more
than 11,000. Each year the convention has grown
in participation and attendance. Further informa—

tion may be secured from the Council at 60 East
42nd Street, New York City.

The Root Memorial Hall—The Boys’ Club
of Wilmington, Delaware, is the possessor of a
building to be used for summer and Winter ac-
tivities which will be known as the Root Memorial
Hall, dedicated to C. B. Root, late superintend—
ent of the Boys’ Club of Wilmington. The build-
ing, located at the boys’ camp, has two large tire—
places, one in each of the rooms. The assembly
room, 48’ by 28’, is the largest part of the build-
ing. Adjoining it is the reading room occupying
a space 19’ by 20’. The stone for both fireplaces
was taken from the old White Horse Tavern near
Philadelphia and built into a replica of the famous
tavern’s fireplace. The hearthstone in front of
the assembly room fireplace is more than two
hundred years old. Fronting the building is a
long covered terrace 12’ by 32’ with flagstone
flooring. About fifty yards north of the clubhouse
is a concrete pool 35’ by 90’. The building pro-
vides facilities for overnight camping.

Mr. Root was at one time a member of the staff
of the National Recreation Association.

An Archery Round-Up—On December 9, the
New Yark Archers with headquarters at 254
Seaman Avenue, New York City, held an Archery
Round—up, designed to acquaint people “with what
the sport is all about, just what made Robin Hood
so famous, and just what archery has that fasci-
nates over 500,000 archers in this conntry.” Color—
ful archery demonstrations were put on at the
indoor archery range and technical instruction was
given on how to shoot correctly.

The Safety Education Association—The or-
ganization of an association to be known as the
Safety Education Association has been announced.
Miss H. Louise Cottrell is President, and Howard
G. Danford of 20 Washington Square North,
New York City, is Secretary-Treasurer. The as-
sociation will hold its first annual conference on
safety education at St. Louis on February 28th.

Further information may be secured from Mr.
Danford.

A Silver Anniversary—On January 22, 1940,
Kiwanis International celebrated at Detroit its
twenty-fifth anniversary, commemorating a quar—
ter of century of service to community, state, and
nation. The service activities of Kiwanis Inter-
national are many and varied. Not the least of

WORLD AT PLAY 637

these are the achievements of the organization
along recreational lines. At the present time 1,881
Kiwanis clubs are engaged in playground, recrea-
tion, and athletic activities.

A booklet entitled “Kiwanis Helps in Print”
issued by Kiwanis International, 520 North Michi-
gan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, tells of the litera-
ture available.

Golf Course Becomes Winter Sports Center
—Portland, Maine, has a beautiful 18-hole golf
course which serves the city the year round
through the action of the Park Commission in
converting this I 33-acre property into a winter
sports center. The Commission has taken advan-
tage of the fact that the topography of the land
makes it usable for skiing, coasting, snowshoeing,
and tobogganing. What is a golf water hazard
adjoining the seventh fairway has been trans-
formed into a very satisfactory winter skating
area. The tower toboggan chute provided by the
Commission, which is shown in the reproduction
of the photograph on page 594, is a two-lane chute
with steel frame bents. The chute is 100 feet long
from the tower take-off. The chute proper and
the “run-off,” which has been made to conform
with the shape of the slide trough, extend far
enough to give approximately a 300-yard tobog-
gan run. The slide is erected at the tenth tee at
the end of the golfing season and is dismantled
in late March.

All winter sports facilities are free to the pub-
lic, and the Riverside golf course is a Mecca for
thousands of participants when weather condi-
tions permit of winter sports.

Winter Sports in New York City—The De-
partment of Parks, New York City, announces an
extensive program of winter sports activities, in-
cluding carnivals, skiing, ice skating and coasting.
In addition to twenty-one lakes used for ice skat-
ing in the larger parks, 127 wading pools and
twenty-two other suitable surfaces in various play-
grounds will be Hooded. Fifteen tennis courts will
be sprayed. Thirty hills have been set aside in the
parks of the live boroughs for coasting and thir-
teen locations have been designated for skiing.
As a climax to the borough carnivals a monster
winter sports carnival was scheduled to be held
on Sunday, January 14, in Central Park. Last
winter 3,000 competed in a novel contest in snow
sculpture and snow architecture at the carnival.

 

in Praise-Winning Use All Over the World

LOUDEN playground equipment is honor-

built from only highest grade materials

by master craftsmen; it is designed by experi-

enced engineers who know what playground

equipment mm: be; it is backed by the 72-

year-old reputation for quality manufactur-

ing and fair-dealing behind the J. E. Porter

Corporation. And yet—it costs the leasr be-

s e e O u r cause it outwears ordinary equipment by far.

EXHIBIT «3* “‘9 Write for Our Catalog

Address: Dept. 13-]

11
THE 1. E. PORTER conpoannon

ILLINOIS

N.E.A. CON-
V E N T l O N

   
 

OTTAWA *

Manufacturers oftho famous "Louden." “Chicago” and "Spalding"
lines of playground, gymnasium and swimming pool equipment

 

 

A Winter Carnival—The sports events of
the annual Winter Carnival at St. Paul, Minne-
sota, held in January centered about a toboggan
slide, believed to be the longest and fastest in
North America, and a ski slide modeled after that
of the 1936 Olympics in Germany. An important
feature of the festival was a gigantic ice palace
constructed of 20,000 huge blocks of ice contain-
ing colored lights. There were masked balls, fire-
works displays, a horse show, and a parade of
30,000 marchers and seventy-five drum corps and
bands. St. Paul presented its first Carnival in
1886.-—U. 8. Travel Bureau Oj?icial Bulletin,
December 25, 1939. ’

Leopold Stokowski’s All-American Youth
Orchestra—National Youth Administration of-
ftces are receiving applications for positions in
Leopold Stokowski’s All-American Youth Orches-
tra of 109 pieces. This musical organization, rep-
resenting the whole of the United States, is being
organized to carry a message of good will to the
Latin American countries. General requirements
are that the players be within the age range of

638 J" A SKI PA TROLS

about 16 to 25. While previous orchestral experi-
ence is not required, such experience is valuable.
Great ability and good technique are essential. The
orchestra will play modern as well as classical
music.

Preliminary auditions under N YA auspices will
be held from January 15 to March 15. Local
committees of qualified musicians will do the pre-
liminary judging. Regional auditions will be con—
ducted by agents of Mr. Stokowski. The famous
conductor will hold his nnal auditions in April.

He will be entirely responsible for all arrange-
ments incident to the tour itself, a good will trip
through Latin American countries this summer

and fall.

Seguin Establishes 3. Recreation System—
Seguin, Texas, has a population of 7,112 people
within the city limits and 1,259 outside the city
limits, 21.7 per cent of the total population
being Mexicans and 20.5 per cent colored citi-
zens. The majority of the white people are of
German extraction.

The movement to establish a year-round
recreation system was started in 1936 when
the citizens realized the need for a recreation
center and a golf course. On April 1, 1938
a year-round recreation executive was put in
charge of the program. In addition to the
playgrounds and other play areas, he is in
charge of the parks and all activities conducted
in them and is directly responsible to the City
Council. The department devoted to recrea—
tion spent about $6,000 during the first year
of operation and will have about $8,000 at its
disposal for the second year. Part of the funds
are received from fees; the remainder from the
city-owned utilities fund.

Ski Patrols

(Continued from page 598)

in Europe but were started in the United States
only four years ago by various ski clubs in New
England. In 1938, Roger Langley, President of
the National Ski Association of America, ap-
pointed Mr. Charles M. Dole as Chairman of the
National Ski Patrol Committee to form a nation-
wide organization to be known as the National
Ski Patrol. All local patrols then in existence and
those formed since have become units of the
National group.

The objectives of the National Ski Patrol are:
to prevent accidents and injuries; to work for
safety in skiing; to develop a common sense at-
titude of the skiing public toward the risk 'of
skiing; and to teach that skiing is no more dan—
gerous than any other sport if one stays within
his capabilities. Since secondary accident preven-
tion is first aid, all Ski Patrolmen must complete
the standard twenty hour first aid course given
through the courtesy and cooperation of the
American Red Cross. He must be acquainted
with modern techniques applicable to winter con-
ditions, for frequently serious ski accidents occur
far from shelter, medical aid and plowed auto
roads.

A Ski Patrolman is not a policeman on skis.
Rather he is a friend of the skier, giving his time
on and off the ski slopes to make skiing safer and
better for all skiers. He is not expected to give
up his own recreational skiing, but with his ap—
pointment as a Ski Patrolman he does assume a
responsibility to the skiing public. Therefore he
must be a picked man over eighteen years of age,
intelligent, dependable, tactful, trained in first aid
and rescue work, a good skier, familiar with the
ski terrain and rescue facilities.

Through the cooperation of the Forest Service
and CCC, the Salt Lake City Patrol has placed
ten rescue caches at vantage points on ski trails
near Salt Lake. These rescue caches, (nick-
named “birdhouses” by skiers) were designed by
G. M. O’Neill, Chairman for the Rocky Moun-
tain Division of the National Ski Patrol. Each
cache consists of a stout pole erected on a spot
chosen for its emergency rescue advantages. Atop
the pole is a roof to shed rain and snow. A fully
equipped toboggan is fastened upright to the pole.
A first aid kit is fitted in the front of the tobog-
gan, and pads, blankets or newspapers are fast—
ened to the back. Wood for splints are included
in the equipment. A canvas, tied down over the
ends, protects all from weather and rodents.
Ample rope is provided at each cache to facilitate
handling of the toboggan on its mercy errands on
steep side hills. Rope is also provided to fasten
the injured skier to the toboggan and to tie on the
injured one’s skis and poles.

Trends in Public Recreation
(Continued from page 610)

ing that recreation has on other fields of effort.
They should know the best ways of launching

INSTITUTES AS VAL UABLE IN-SERVICE TRAIA‘U

activities and of carrying them on and how to
test the values in programs offered. Questions of
Hnance. recording, interpretation must be grasped.

Finally, the recreation worker is working with
forces which are in many an instance the deciding
forces of the individual life as they develop grow-
ing interests and develop points of view and at-
titudes that have everything to do with associative
living.

In leisure men have the chance to offset daily
compulsions. Since this is so, spontaneity must be
the characteristic of the recreation field. If rec-
reation becomes too hidebound or too intricately
elaborate, many of its values will be lost. There-
fore, the art of widening and intensifying rela-
tionships and the freedom of individual action
should be zealously guarded.

Institutes as Valuable In-Service
Training
(Continued from page 618)

Of interest to some participants is the question
of credits given by nearby colleges and universi-
ties. Such credit is frequently available. For ex-
ample, the successful completion of the course in
Birmingham will qualify individuals‘for credits
from Birmingham-Southern College, Howard
College, Miles Memorial College for Negros, and
Payne University.

The Association’s institute staff includes the fol-
lowing highly trained and widely experienced
persons:

For music, Augustus D. Zanzig and Siebolt H.
Frieswyk

For social recreation, Ethel M. Bowers
For arts and crafts, Frank A. Staples

For drama, Jack Stuart Knapp

For nature recreation, Reynold E. Carlson

Institutes Have Lasting Value

Not only are the institutes an excellent type of
in-service training conducted at slight cost to the
participating agencies, since the students pay the
fees, but they are first-rate instruments of public
education for recreation. They create new friends
for community recreation and they cement the in-
terest of old ones. The attendant publicity pro-
duces values beyond securing adequate enrollments.
The Birmingham course was preceded by an ex-
tensive educational campaign which included win—

 

. a»- ‘4.“ng

639

t , ,..*—‘
T "pt-1'... 1. .‘

      
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  

RIN GER
(Patented)

 

 

Keep Your Pitching
Horseshoe Equipment

UP-TO-DGTE

Write for catalog of the DIAMOND
line of horseshoes and accessories,
the complete line of official equip-
ment. It includes:

0 Many Styles of Horseshoes

0 Official Courts ' Stakes

0 Stake Holders 0 Carrying Case:
0 Rule Books 0 Score Pads

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4610 Grand Avenue
DULUTH. MINN.

 

I-las Anyone an Extra Copy?

Mrs. Catharine P. Storie, Assistant, Reference
Department, Teachers College, Columbia Uni—
versity, New York City, is very anxious to secure
a copy of the September, 1937 issue of RECREA—
TION which is out of print. Will anyone having a
copy which he is willing to put at the disposal of
Teachers College communicate with Mrs. Storie?

Q/am plow/mm
+ M I T C H E I. I. "335.1315?
PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

=mma¢ozgm

Write for Free Literature on
PLAYGROUND or SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

MITCHELL MFG. CO.

3034 Forest Home Avenue MILWAUKEE. WIS.

640 INTRODUCING THE SNOW ARTIST!

dow displays, news articles, editorials, Sunday
newspaper features, daily radio announcements,

and a speakers’ corps that reached every organiza-
tion in the city and county. This interpretative

program aroused cooperation and created an un-
derstanding of the recreation program at large as
well as securing registrations.

Of the numerous testimonials received by the
National Recreation Association on the value of
the institutes, requests for a second course are
perhaps the most eloquent. However, there have
been many other enthusiastic letters of commen-
dation. A few samples are to be seen in the fol-

lowing quotations :

“In my estimation, it was the best recreation

faculty I have every seen together.”
Community Chest Executive

“Our sincere appreciation for the splendid train-
ing institute.”
Asst. Secretary, Council of Social Agencies
“We were so much impressed that we feel that

the city will welcome an opportunity for an ad-
vanced course.” Business man

“The people of this city will enjOy a greatly en-
riched and more abundant life in the future because

of the recreation institute.”
Director of Religious Education

“If the institute were to come back next month,

the same peOple and more would enroll.”
WPA Executive

“The eagerness with which our workers are
plunging in now to apply some of the new in-
spiration and new techniques which they achieved
through the sessions testifies to the stimulating
value of the school.”

Superintendent of Recreation in a Park System

“The assistant priests who are in charge of social
and dramatic clubs are enthusiastic about the re-
sults obtained with the new methods and knowl-
edge of games. The sisters in the parochial schools
secured many ideas to 'be applied during, recreation
periods.”

Diocesan Director of Catholic Charities

“Those who took the courses were more en-
thusiastic over them than any courses I have seen
offered in any school in our state.”

Consultant in Physical Education

“Our staff members are high in their praise not
only of the subject matter contained in the courses,
but particularly of the kindness, interest and skills
shown 'by all members of the faculty.”

Chairman of a City Chapter of
American Red Cross

The next institute will be held at Denver Feb-

ruary 5th-M arch Ist under the sponsorship of the '

Council of Social Agencies. This is the second

course in Denver, the iirst one having been held
in January 1938.
Further information regarding the institute

program may be secured from the National Rec-
reation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New

York City.

Introducing the Snow Artist!

( Continued from page 620)
Duluth, Minnesota, awards prizes each winter

in its snow modeling contest in the following
classifications: snow statues, snow houses or huts,
and original figures. The Board of Education sets
a date by which time all models must be com-
pleted. The judges are ready to consider a model
as soon as it is finished. In the event of bad
weather conditions, the competing sculptors take
pictures of the models they have made in their
front yards and submit them to the judges.

A large model of Will Rogers (twenty-three
feet high and “weighing about 100 tons) was con-
structed in Hibbing, Minnesota, in 1937 and it
received national publicity. The model started
great interest in snow sculpture in Hibbing and
resulted in hundreds of models from cats to
battleships.

Other Winter Pastimes

Ice painting is another interesting wintertime
occupation. Remove the glass from a window or
picture frame and pack the frame in snow after
placing it Hat on the ground. To produce an icy
surface, pour water over the frame and let it
freeze overnight. With a thick paste made of
kalsomine, any desired landscape can be painted
on the ice. Exposure in a warm room will blend
the colors of the portrait, after which it may be
allowed to freeze again.

The technique for making art windows (“stained
glass” windows) is slightly different. Roll putty
or art clay into a long string one-quarter-inch ,
thick and outline a scene on a pane of glass, plac- ,
ing the clay tightly against the glass along the
division of colors. A colored design or drawing 5
can be placed under the glass for copy work.
Water colored with Easter egg dyes is run
through the canals formed by the clay dykes and
allowed to freeze. Stained glass windows have
been used effectiuely in buildings modeled in snow.

From St. Louis County, Minnesota, comes a
suggestion for “the Queen’s Jewel,” an arrange-

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 641

Chicago’s Fifth Annual

Recreation Conference

N NOVEMBER 8, 1939, the Chicago, Illinois,

Recreation Commission held its fifth annual
rity-wide Recreation Conference. The meetings
attracted an attendance of approximately 3,000
people, over 1,500 of Whom were officially regis-
tered, and there were a number of delegates from
adjacent cities. The Conference opened with a
discussion meeting addressed by Dr Jay B. Nash,
Professor of Education at New York University,
who also spoke at the opening general session in
the afternoon when he discussed the subject, “Is
America Ready for Leisure?”

At 2 :30 the Conference broke up into six group
meetings on special subjects—“Amateur Hour
for Community Singers”; “Youth Quizzes Recre—
ation Experts”; “Curbstone Session on Com-
munity Problems”; “Club Women Interpret Rec-
reation”; “Industrial Recreation Round Table”;
and “Outdoor and Nature Recreation.”

Under the chairmanship of Dr. Arthur  Todd,
Chairman of the Department of Sociology at
Northwestern University, a panel discussed “Co-
ordination and Planning of Recreation in Chicago.”

The Conference closed with two dinner meet-
ings, one for young people who joined the larger
group to hear the speakers of the evening. Dr.
Charles W. Gilkey, Dean of the University of
Chicago Chapel, served as toastmaster. Dr. May-
nard Hutchins, President of the University of
Chicago, introduced Dr. Eduard C. Lindeman
whose subject was “Recreation—a Positive Force
in a Democracy.” Almost 1,500 people attended
the closing banquet.

ment of colored chunks of ice frozen into place.
This is the procedure: mix water and dye in old
wash tubs, tin containers, or oil barrels split
lengthwise to form two tubs. Build the colored
ice in layers to‘ get an even distribution of color.
Remove the ice from the tub by knocking it out
or by pouring hot water on the bottom and sides.
Break it into various sized chunks to get as many
reflecting surfaces as possible. Build a pile of
snow and set in the broken pieces of colored ice
so closely that no snow can be seen. Cement into
place with slush. By throwing a spotlight on it,
the Queen’s Jewel will stand out as a colorful
part of the decorations.

    

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles
l of Interest to the Recreation Worker 1

 
     

MAGAZIN ES

Beach and Pool, November 1939
“Swimming Pool Construction and Operation” by
David McCary
“Minimum Swimming Pool Standards” by courtesy
Texas State Department of Health

Twenty-first Annual Convention of Amusement
Parks. Pools and Beaches

Fifth Annual Aquatic Forum by courtesy City of
Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

Parks and Recreation, November 1939

“Protection and Improvement of Park Scenic Values”
by Herbert M. Blanche

“A Camp for Underprivileged Children” by Walter
L. Wirth

“How Shall We Play?” by L. H. Weir

“Human Needs.” A Panel-discussion of Public and
Private Recreation

School and Society, November 11, 1939
“The American College in a War-Torn World” by
Dixon Ryan Fox

The Library Journal, November 15, 1939
“Libraries in the Contemporary Crisis” by Archi-
bald MacLeish

The Nation’s Schools, November 1939
“Does Vandalism Begin at School?” *by Ruth L.
Bills

Journal of Adult Education, October 1939
“Let Us Get Back to Art” by Ernst Jonson
“Greenbelt” by Linden S. Dodson

The Epworth Highroad, September 1939
“Games That Go Places” by Elizabeth A. Cavanna

Business Digest, November 1939
“Create Something”

Childhood Education, September 1939

Editorials—Festivals

“Festival Making—A Means of Growth” by Ruth
Bristol

“A Festival of Lights” by Josephine Bowden

“How a Community Festival Contributes to Demo-
cratic Living” by Lelia E. Weinberg .

“Festivals in a Mountain Community” by Marie
Campbell

Minnesota Municipalities, October 1939
“Prescriptions for Hallowe’en Hoodlums”

PAMPHLETS

Age and Organic Epiciency by I. H. McCurdy, M.D. 
Leonard A. Larson, Ph.D. Reprinted from The Mill-
tary Surgeon, Vol. 85, No. 2, August, 1939

Educational Opportunities of Greater Boston for Work-

ing Men and Women—Catalog N0. 17—193911940
Compiled by the Prospect Union Educational Ex-
change, Cambridge, Massachusetts, price $.50

Juvenile Delinquency
Reprint from Youth Leaders Digest, Peekskill, N.Y.,
price $.25
Hospital Schools in the United States by Clele Lee

Matheison .
Superintendent of Documents, Washington. D. C.,

price $.15
National Parks Bulletin, November 1939
“Influence of Science Upon Appreciation of Nature”
by John C. Merriam

647 GOLF AND COUNTRY CLUBS FOR WINTER SPORTS

Courage, Teacher—

There are brave men today who are working steadily for the progress of civilization, even though
half the world’s armies are trying to destroy each other. There are men of courage and wisdom and
skill whose achievements put to shame the futile destruction of Mars. These peaceable and progres-
sive heroes can divert the minds of today’s children from the horrors of the time, can inspire
today’s youth to noble deeds. It is men of this calibre who are right now on their way to make

the conquest of the South Pole complete.

Ten-twenty-thirt'y years from now the text books of the nation’s schools will devote pages to the
discoveries of the present Byrd expedition. Sch001 children then will thrill to the conquest of the
South Pole as school children yesterday thrilled to the conquest of the West.

Today’s school children need not be deprived of this thrilling chapter, for JUNIOR ARTS AND
ACTIVITIES will bring to teachers the story of this expedition as it is taking place. This story

will be presented in the popular and unique JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES manner—with
full page illustrations, information, projects, regular study correlations. It will be presented along

with the following popular features:

Creative Art
Decorations. Crafts
Social Studies

Industries
History

Units. Activities
Pictorial Maps
Health IS Safety Geography
Dioramas. Posters Seatwork Construction Work
Foreign Countries Music Book Reviews

It will be presented at the regular JUNIOR ARTS
AND ACTIVITIES price:

Ten Big Issues for Only $2.00
Subscribe Now! Start your subscription

with the January issue
to receive all of the Byrd material. Join the thou-
sands of successful teachers who keep their pupils
ahead with

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES

740 RUSH STREET CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

Ifouth Leaders’ Handbook
National Council of Catholic Women, 1312 Massa-
chusetts Avenue, N.W., Washington, D. C.

Woodland Trail Walks with the HTB—Booklet No. 8

October 1939 through March 1940
Hiking Trips Bureau, Ho-ho-kus, New Jersey, price
$.10

Local Community Fact Boole 1938

Chicago Recreation Commission, 160 North LaSalle
Street, Chicago, Illinois

Golf and Country Clubs for

Winter Sports
(Continued from page 623)

the best, the writer believes that a jump ranging
from fifteen to twenty meters would work out
very well. On a jump of this size the oldsters
could enjoy the supreme thrill of flying through
the air without flirting too much with possible
broken limbs. We have watched children as
young as seven years of age go over jumps of this
size with little or no concern. Ski jumps have
their place on golf courses as it is fine training for
the youngsters and an occasional thrill for those
oldsters who have nerve enough to try it.

Winter Carnivals
Golf courses or country clubs are excellent

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES
740 Rush Street, Chicago, Ill.

Please enter my subscription to JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES
for one year (10 issues),'to start with the....................................issue.
.............. ..I am enclosing $2.00

................ ..Bill me for $2.00

NAME   .. ...

ADDRESS     ....

 

places for the holding of winter carnivals. Wide
open fairways provide plenty of room for skiing,
skijoring, tobogganing; water hazards provide an
ice surface for skating and hockey; and the big,
warm reception room in the clubhouse is the nat-
ural scene for the ski-boot dance, the end of a
perfect day!

In a Word

As a result of the study made the following
conclusions will be of interest to golf clubs con-
sidering the use of their facilities as a winter
sports center:

There is seemingly adequate snowfall and a low
enough mean temperature in ninety per cent of
the state to carry out a full winter sports
program.

Ninety per cent of the golf clubs in Massachu-
setts were heartily in favor of a winter sports
program, and more than half of these clubs were
willing to open their courses for public use.

Those golf and country clubs now running a
winter sports program have been successful in
their undertaking and consider the winter pro-
gram an important part of their year-round

activities.

RECREATION NOTES AND NEWS 643

A Shelf Show for Community

Craftsmen
(Continued from huge 624)

tervals, perhaps each four or six months, to allow
other craftsman an opportunity to qualify for a
shelf. Anyone being awarded a shelf will display
his work for a period of two or three months, re-
placing the article with another as often as he
wishes, subject to the approval of the judges. This
ruling provides a constantly changing group of
handiwork, and therefore a more interesting
display.

The recreation leaders should not allow their
enthusiasm to run away with them; they should
not undertake the project unless the sponsoring
clubs and judges are eager to carry it through.
At all times they must see to it that the shelves
are maintained in faultless arrangement and neat-
ness. They must also remember that although the
exhibit is open to artists in any field of arts and
crafts, it must represent the best work of the
arts and crafts students of the community. They
must strive to uphold this standard.

The artists and towns people both will benefit
from the exhibit. The craftsmen will constantly
strive to improve their skills and the observers
will enjoy and grow to appreciate craftwork.
From these humble beginnings, it is even possible
that a permanent art center may develop in a
community where the citizens have been made
newly aware of the beauty and fine skill native to
arts and crafts.

Child Development Through

Play and Recreation
(Continued from page 627)
creative association. Private agencies also con-

tribute discriminating social thinking and leader-
ship through analysis, evaIUation, and interpreta-
tion. They are experimenting both in new areas
of need and in new methods of work. They often
consciously prepare the community for larger
public effort and the transfer of services from
private to public auspices. . . .

“Cognizance innst also be taken of the vast in-
crease in, and growing importance of, commercial
recreation. This is not limited to entertainment
and cultural opportunities, such as are provided
by radio, motion pictures, and the theater. It in-
cludes also many opportunities for sports and
active recreation. Commercial recreation is avail-

able only to those who can afford to pay for it,
(Continued on page 644)

Recreation Notes and News

K. BROWN, Chief of the Recreation Division

0 of the Chicago Park District, was elected
president of the American Institute of Park Ex-
ecutives at their fortieth annual convention held
in Philadelphia. For some time he had edited the
Recreation Section of the Institute’s magazine,
Parks and Recreation. Mr. Brown is the retiring
president of the Society of Recreation Workers
of America and is the first recreation executive to
head the Institute. His election followed a long
term on the Executive Committee as one of the
Institute’s directors.

Other officers elected were Walter L. VVirth,
Superintendent of Parks, New Haven, Connecti-
cut, vice-president, and Edward H. Bean, Di-
rector of the Chicago Zoological Garden, treas-
urer. Mr. Bean begins his ninth term as treasurer.
R. S. Marshall, Superintendent of Parks and Rec-
reation, Birmingham, Alabama, and C. A. Bossen,
General Superintendent of Parks, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, are the two new directors, each to
serve for three years.

H. S. CALLOWHILL, who for a number of years
has been Executive Director of the Playground
Athletic League of Baltimore, Maryland, will
serve as Director of the Department of Public
Recreation, brought into being when the voters of
Baltimore approved a charter amendment creat—
ing a Department of Public Recreation and out-
lining its duties and powers. The new department
went into effect on January I, 1940. Meanwhile
$10,000 has been provided with which the depart-
ment will work in establishing a transition from
the present private auspices to public control. A
full appropriation will be voted the beginning of
1940.

Last September Winthrop Rockefeller, son of
John D. Rockefeller, announced a new organiza-
tion to be known as “Air Youth of America,”
whose objective it is to assist the thousands of
young people already participating in junior air-
craft activity. The board has selected as its tech-
nical adviser to aid in preparing the program
Arthur J. Vhay, for the past four years head of
the model aircraft program developed by the De-
troit Department of Recreation. Mr. Vhay has
been a member of the staff of the department for
fifteen years. Under his direction 2,000 boys have
been meeting each week for instruction in build-
ing elementary airplane models and for assistance
in advanced work.

644

L. DI BENEDETTO, Sr., who for many years has
been Superintendent of Playgrounds in New
Orleans, Louisiana, in January was elected Presi—
dent of the Amateur Athletic Union.
#

Child Development Through Play and Recreation
(Continued from page 643)

but it is influenced both in quality and quantity by
the character and amount of the demand. Educa-
tional agencies can play a role in promoting intel-
ligent choice and appreciation of these forms of
recreation.”

The Committee urges parents and citizens who
desire to see their community operate a broad
program of community recreation to support and
encourage the organization of community plan”
ning groups, believing that these will tend to
minimize friction, waste, and duplication, and to
develop new channels of operation.

“Within any community, state, or region, op-
portunity for leisure-time activities must be plan-
ned. If it grows haphazardly, with school, parks,
and private agencies each acting independently, the
program may be wasteful and retarded. Planning,
on the other hand, may lead to coordination of
services and facilities. It also helps to bring about
public recognition of the fact that recreation for
young and old requires equipment and trained

personnel.”

The report stresses the recognized responsibility
of government for providing recreation facilities
and services and urges that municipalities having
no public recreation agency investigate the means
by which local recreation commissions may be
formed. It recommends that approaches to inter-
community and state-wide cooperation and plan—
ning be made through recreation committees of
state planning boards, inter-departmental commit-
tees of state bureaus, and departments or special
committees appointed to study the desirability and
methods of creating state recreation bodies.

In the opinion of the Committee, public recrea—
tion programs could be strengthened by the es-'
tablishment of state recreation bodies to facilitate
planning and cooperation among the various de-
partments of the state government and the coun-
ties and cities within the state and the recreation
services available to states and localities from
departments of the Federal government.

The Committee calls attention to the work
which the Federal government has done since
1933 in improving old recreation areas, building

A TEN—YEAR PARK PROGRAM

new units, and setting aside new areas. More than
one billion dollars, according to the report, has
been spent by the Works Projects Administration
on recreation projects requested by state and
local park, forest, education, public works, 'wel-
fare, and recreation departments. Other Federal
agencies performing some types of recreational
functions include the National Park Service, For-
est Service, National Youth Administration,
Civilian Conservation Corps, Public Works Ad-
ministration, Extension Service of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Farm Security Administra-
tion, Bureau of Biological Survey, Office of
Education, and Public Health Service.

To meet the need for joint action on the part
of Federal agencies and bureaus, the Committee
urges careful consideration be given to the setting
Up of a Federal bureau of recreation.

The final recommendation of the Committee has
to do with the creation of a national commission
to study the country’s leisure resources and needs
as a nation and make recommendations concern—
ing the development of recreation programs with
particular regard to the needs of children and
youth for play and recreation. A later national
conference on leisure in a democracy is suggested
by the Committee as the occasion for the national
commission to present a report of its iindings and
recommendations to the American people.

A Ten-Year Park Program

(Continued from page 628)
The City Planning Commission recommends

that a suitable plan for early acquisition be de-
vised in accordance with the opinion of the City
Attorney in order that all recreational areas rec-
ommended in the ten year program be appropri—
ately earmarked in the beginning. Some of the
most needed sites can be paid for in the iirst few
years of the program. Time payments can be are
ranged for other sites. Owners of property needed
for public use will have positive knowledge as to
whether or not their property will be taken. The
city can thus act more systematically if the entire
program can be established in the beginning and
all the sites reserved for public park use. It iS
recommended that transfer of title be arranged
for in the beginning so that the city will not have to
reimburse the private owners for taxes on all ear-
marked sites until final payment is completed.
This will prevent continual study and revision of

the city-wide plan.
(Continued on. page 646)

 

HUGH McK. LANDON HONORED 645

Ferdinand A. Silcox

HE ANNOUNCEMENT of the passing of Ferdi-

nand A. Silcox, Chief of the United State'
Forest Service, so soon after the death of his
associate, Robert Marshall, comes as a double
shock to all friends of recreation. Chief Forester
since 1933, Mr. Silcox has done much to impress
upon the American people the concept of “The
People’s Forest.” Over 165 million acres of for-
est land came under his direct administration—-
land that was to be used for “the greatest good
to the greatest number of people.” His was a
rare combination of understandings. He knew
forestry, for after graduating from the Yale
School of Forestry in 1905 he started his career
as a forest ranger. He served in that capacity
until the World War claimed his services. Yet he
knew more than forest management and trees. He
knew people. As industrial relations director for
the printing industry in the interim between the
end of the War and his appointment as Chief of
the Forest Service, he sensed the yearnings of the
human heart and the constant struggle in men’s
souls for a more enriching and satisfying life.
He felt the pulse of humanity and he knew his
job. Thus fortified he was eminently qualified to
serve in the high oche he held during the past
seven years.

Under his leadership, inspired by his splendid
social vision, the Forest Service has recognized
recreation as one of the multiple uses of the for-
est. Literally hundreds of forest camps have been
constructed in various forests throughout the

United States. These camps provide facilities for
tent camping, picnicking, bathing, swimming, hik-
ing, and opportunities for close contact with
nature. In sections of the forest where weather
conditions are ideal, winter sports areas have been
set aside for those interested in skiing, tobogan-
ning, skating, and other types of winter sports.
Thousands of miles of roads have been con-
structed through the forests and people can enjoy

the scenic beauty that abounds.

Surely Ferdinand Silcox has made a valuable
contribution to the people of America, and it is

comforting to know that his philosophy of recrea-
tion will continue because it has been rooted as

deep as the primeval giants of the forests that
he loved.

Hugh McK. Landon Honored.

 

R. HUGH McK. LANDON, a member of the

Board of Directors of the National Recrea-

tion Association, has been honored for distin-

guished citizenship by election to the order of the
Staff of Honor in Indianapolis, his home'city.

The order was created a year ago by represent-
atives of civic organizations for the purpose of
recognizing outstanding service to Indianapolis
apart from business or professional achievements.
To be considered for the honor the individual
must have lived in Indianapolis at least ten years
as a private citizen, he must have reached his 70th
year, and he must have served the city over and
above the requirements of good citizenship out-
side and beyond his own chosen business, pro-
fession or calling. Each recipient receives a gold
medal symbolic of distinguished civic, social or
philanthropic services to the city and its people
and a citation on parchment outlining the services
for which the award is made.

In addition to serving on the National Recrea-
tion Association’s Board of Directors, Mr. Landon
is one of the founders and for many years has
been one of the directors of the Community Fund
of Indianapolis. He has had a special interest in
child welfare, including service to the local Boys’
Club. For eighteen years he has been chairman of
the James Whitcomb Riley Memorial Association;
he is also a member of the joint committee for ad—
ministering the Riley Hospital for Children and
chairman of its research committee. During the
World War he was chairman for Indiana of the
War Camp Community Service which directed
recreation activities for men in training.

646 SQUARE DANCING [5‘ FUN, BUT—~— TEACH :lN EASY ONE FIRST!

A Ten-Year Park Program
(Continued from page 644)

While most of the funds are to be Spent for
acquisition of sites, a small part will be necessary
for grading and general clean-up of acquired sites.
It is recommended that little or no money be spent
for these improvement purposes at the beginning
of the program or until such time as the Council
may be reasonably certain that the more important
acquisition can be made and that minimum grad-
ing, etc., can be done within the financial limits of
the program.

It is recommended that landscape plans be pre-
pared in the near future for all sites in order to
achieve a good general designed economy and
systematic use of recreation areas.

Square Dancing Is Fun
(Continued from page 630)

mixed up the iirst time or two, but they will soon
get it right. Practice this figure until they do. It
is useless to go ahead with the other calls until all
in the set move into this call promptly, if you wish
to maintain the interest which demands under-
standing and improvement. I

(3) As partners meet with right hands, the
gentleman turns the lady so she is facing in the
same direction as he; then they cross hands and
arms in skating position, and promenade back to
place counter-clockwise—the way the man was
moving when he met his partner. Remember the
lady is always on the gentleman’s right, from the
beginning of the dance until the end.

(4) First couple balances and swings.

(5) The gentleman leaves his lady standing in
her original position, while he goes alone to the
next couple on his right, the “second couple.”

, (6) Standing before the lady of the second
couple, he bows, does a little jig (everybody likes
this), and swings the lady.

(7) He passes to the next couple.

On (8), (9), (10), he repeats the previous
figures. On (II) he goes back to his original
partner, and everybody swings. Then the chorus
call is given and the second gentleman has a
chance to show what he can do.

Not much time is allowed for the “bow, jig, and
swing.” Call it at about the average speaking
speed. For music, a lively reel (“Turkey in the
Straw” or similar tune) will do.

Try this easy square dance first. Your group
will love it. If you are a beginner or an advanced

square dancer, one who knows his “do—si-dos,”
you will find it a lot of fun.

      
 

The 1939

College Blue Book

Since 1923

The Standard Reference Work
of Higher Education

700 Pages—Increase of Over 100

    
        

  
 

It brings to you for instant re f-

 
 

erence the basic facts, ratings,

 
 

entrance, fees, resources

  
 

  
     

Used constantly by College and School of-
licials, .by Guidance Committees and by Lead-
ing Libraries.

    
 

Covers 652 Colleges and Universities

563 Junior and 119 Negro Colleges
Also 2,613 Professional Schools of Aero-

nautics, Agriculture, Architecture, Commerce,
Dentistry, Education, Engineering, Forestry,
Journalism, Law, Library Science, Medicine,

Nursing, Osteopathy, Optometry, Pharmacy,

Social Work, Theology, and Schools of
Technology.

 
 
      
   
   
     
   
 

  
 

567 Universities Around the World
Full page color State Maps in
Educational Atlas

  
     
 

Price $4.75

  
    
  

Address the Editor

D r . H . W. H U R T
404 Riverside Drive New York City

  
     
    

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

A Bibliography of Nature-Study

By Eva L. Gordon. 'Comstock Publishing Company, Inc.,
Ithaca, New York. $.25.

GIVING PREFERENCE to “well-written, well-illustrated
_ books,” the compiler of this forty-five-page bibliog-
raphy divided nature study into several divisions, listing
separate groups of 1books under Nature Study in General,
Animal Life, Plant Life, and Earth and Sky. Each book
receives a brief account of its content, with a notation on
the age group to which the book would have its greatest

appeal. It was reprinted from Anna Botsford Comstock’s
Handbook of Nature-Study.

Yours for a Song

Compiled 'by Janet E. Tobitt. Janet E. Tobitt, 430 West
119th Street, New York. $.25.

MISS ToEITT, who was mainly responsible for the ex-
cellent collection entitled Sing Together of songs
chosen especially for use by the Girl Scouts, has com-
piled this book also. of fifty-seven songs and rounds.
The vitality and interest of the collection is in keeping
with the brightness and wit of its title. It will be found
useful by everyone interested in informal singing by
groups or individuals—A. D. Zanzig.

Rehearsal for Safety

By Fanny Venable Cannon. E. P. Dutton & Co., New
York. $1.00.

A1300}: 0F EIGHT worthwhile little safety plays for ele-
mentary and junior high school based upon recom-
mendations of the National Safety Council and leading
courses of study in safety education. Easily produced.
Casting and settings will depend on the available ma-
terial. This book nlls an urgent need on the part of
teachers and others for dramatizations of a wide variety
of safety hazards.

Special Events in the
Physical Education Program

National Sectionon Women’s Athletics. American As-
sociation for Health, Physical Education,_ and Recrea-
tion, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.
$.50.

AMPLE PROGRAMS for assemblies, demonstrations. and
S other feature events are given in this booklet, which
also presents some general considerations in the adminis-
tration of these events. Recreation workers as well as
physical educators will find this booklet helpful.

Wrestling

By E. C. Gallagher. A. S. Barnes and Company. New
York. $1.00.

IN THIS BOOK a championship coach shows the techniques
and fundamentals of the time-honored sport of wrestl—
ing. Pictures of individual holds are given with explana-
tory descriptions so that the reader may follow graphi—
cally the best methods to apply to different holds.

Dorothy Gordon's

Treasure Bag of Game Songs
E. P. Dutton and Co., New York City. $1.50.

A_COLLECTION of twenty-two singing games chosen by
radio’s pOpular “Song and Story Lady.” From all
parts of America and from,.England, Bavaria, Denmark,
France, Germany, Scotland, Belgium and Iceland they
come, several of them not yet generally familiar. The
book is merrily and copiously illustrated, the musical ar—
rangements fairly adequate though simple enough for the
veriest tyro of a pianist, and the directions for each game

very clear and detailed.

Color Mosaic Windows

By John T. Morgan. Kit 51. Cooperative Recreation
Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

THIS BOOKLET presents a simple and inexpensive methOd
of making translucent paper windows in mosaic-pat-
tern glass design. The author explains the process from
creative group discussion and small scale color sketches
to painting the windows and sealing them between glass
in the window frame. There are numerous illustrations

of simulated stained glass windows and interpretations
of their meaning.

Finding New Subjects for Your Camera

By Jacob Deschin. VVhittlesey House, McGraw-Hill
Book Company, Inc., New York. $2.50.

HERE ARE NEW IDEAS for pictures, new angles for photo-
graphing, and new techniques of lighting, posing. and
arranging. Mr. Deschin, author of a number of books on
photography, shows how skill can be acquired, discusses
the innumerable possibilities for good pictures, and de-
scribes new photographing methods and trick effects.

Low-Cost Crafts for Everyone

By H. Atwood Reynolds. Greenberg Publishers, New
York City. $2.50.

TEACHERS 0R LEADERS who have to work with inexpen-
sive craft materials or the odds and ends of materials
which are about them, will be interested in learning of
this publication which includes directions for the making
of a large number of handcraft projects. It is stated
that none of the projects described should cost more than
twenty-five cents, some of them much less, or nothing at
all. Many of the articles are attractive and serviceable.
The book should be of practical help in planning a craft
program.

Constructional 'Activities of

Adult Males

By W. Virgil Nestrick, Ph. D. Bureau of Publications,

Teachers College, Columbia University, New York.
$1.60.

HERE IS A STUDY of factors contributing to the individ-
ual’s desire or lack of desire to participate in leisure
activity involving the use of tools and hands. Data were

647

648 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

collected through the use of the standardized interview
from a group of men selected at random on Long Island.
Among the conclusions is one which will be of speCial
interest to recreation workers. A definite non-chance re-
lationship was found to exist between participation in
constructional activities in childhood (ages six to eigh-
teen) and participation in constructional activities either
as hobbies or as favorite leisure-time activities in adult
life. A very small percentage of men who did not par-
ticipate in some type of constructional activities between
the ages of six and eighteen participated in these actiVities
in adult life. On the other 'hand, approximately one-half
of the men who enjoyed handcraft in their youth par-
ticipated in such activities in adult life.

Walking, Camping and Natul‘e Clubs of America, 1939.

Edited 'by William Hoeferlin. Published by Walking
News, 556 Fairview Street, Brooklyn, New York.

$.10.
A list Of some of America’s hiking clubs. Names are
given wherever possible of club ofTICials. The clubs are

grouped according to geographical locations.

Wild Country.

By F. Fraser Darling. Cambridge: At the Univers-
ity Press. The Macmillan Company, New York.

$2.75.

Here is a scrapbook of anecdotes, observations, and
photographs collected by Dr. Darling during many
months spent on the desolate, Wlnd swept islands Off
northern Scotland. The volume is filled with challeng-
ing ideas on the characteristics and habits of familiar and
less familiar birds and animals. Wild Country, With its
informal descriptions, beautiful photography, and fine
bookmaking, is a volume about which nature lovers Will

want to know.

Facilities for the Use Of Workers’
Leisure During Holidays.

P. S. King & Son, Ltd. London, England. $.75.

This subject was discussed by the Committee on Rec-
reation in the Governing Body of the International La-
bour Ofiice in 1937. Augmenting their information With
additional data, the International Labour thce pub-
lished an international report on workers’ leisure time
facilities. The booklet is divided into three parts: the
report submitted to the Committee, the text of the reso-
lution adopted by the Committee. and the minutes of the
Governing Body’s discussions. The report is available
from the Washington Branch of the International Labour

thce.

Education for Democracy.

Bureau of Publications, Teachers College, Columbia
University, New York. $2.50.

The addresses of men and women from a number of
countries have been brought together in this volume of
the Proceedings of the Congress on Education for De-
mocraCy held at Teachers College, Columbia University,
August 15-17, 1939. The Congress was planned to meet
the need for an organized and continuing movement
which would be nation—wide and would involve the na-
tional groups that now exert or should be encouraged to
exert great influence on public education. Laymen and
educators were brought into closer contacts through this
conference which sought to lay before the public a num-
ber Of the fundamental problems of education, particu-
larly as they concern the welfare of the community, in
order that educators and laymen together might help
work out solutions that are sound and under existing
conditions practicable. The heart Of the Congress was
the sixteen seminars, composed of approximately an
equal number of lay and professional delegates, who in
small groups discussed critical problems which they
themselves and their colleagues had proposed beforehand,

The findings from the seminars were presented in a meet-
ing of all the seminar delegates. These seminars were
felt to be highly profitable.

Principles of Child Care.in Institutions.

.Edited by Esther McClain and Jessie Charters.
Division of Public Assistance, State Department of
Public Welfare, 1207 State Oflice Building, Colum-
bus, Ohio. $1.25.

This handbook for stafI study and discussion takes up
the many problems which superintendents of children’s
institutions and their staffs face every day. Each of the
thirty‘ chapters has been prepared by the superintendent
Of an Ohio institution or by some official associated with

the work of these institutions. A number of chapters
relate to the play life of the child, notably, “The Child

and His Play,” “The Child and Aesthetic Experience.”
and “The Child and the Movies.” The booklet should be
of very practical help to officials of children’s institutions
everywhere.

Adventuring for Senior Scouts.

Boy Scouts Of America, New York. $1.00.

There is a wealth Of material in this book Of program
activities which will be helpful to all groups working
with boys. For those who would go adventuring in the
out of doors, there are numberless practical suggestions
for trips and activities of many kinds. '

 

 

Ofiicers and Directors Of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN H. FINLEY, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

HOWARD S. BRAUCiiER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

JOHN H. FINLEY, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hicxox, Michigan. City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me. '

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. W'INANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

