‘ What Is It We Defend?

‘ [IE WORLD we have known is all changed. We do not know what a day will bring
forth. Gone are Czechoslovakia. Austria, almost Poland. Partitioned is Finland.

' Suspended are Norway. Denmark, Holland, Belgium as we have known them. P1305-
' trate are China. France. The British Empire fights on. Defense in the United States
comes first.

i What is it we defend? What is the America we know? How runs The American
\Vay of Life?

I America is liberty, freedom, the pursuit of happiness.

America is also discipline, courage, the pioneer spirit, aspiration.

l
Amer1ca 1s romance, adventure, sport, mus1c, culture, life for all here and now.

I

 \Ve cannot defend America well without keeping strong that which we defend.
I.America is life. real life for all from the cradle to the grave. Through recreation we
'lbuild much that is above the mere cellar foundations of existence. In our cities and in
Ilour open country blossoms a civilization of abundant living which has been the dream
lof men always everywhere. Leisure is no longer an empty word.

, All this we will defend. All this is worth defending. But surely this dream land
Ethat we have made real land—we will not give up just because we are going to defend
it. \Ve will keep our park lands and waters, our music, our beauty, our sports, the
.laughter of little children, a measure of rhythm and lightheartedness even as we step
Iliout ready to defend to the full all we have, all that we have with God’s help builded.

Rhythm and smiles are a part of gallant defense and help keep away the tenseness
phat weakens defense. The hunger of all men and women for spiritual comradeship is
~r-rl‘cater at the present moment because of all that is happening in the world at large.

p
' Keep the home hres, the heart fires burning. Keep the morale high. Here’s no place
.lto think of cheapness, of pinching pennies, of cutting taxes. Recreation, the song in the
Heart, must be strengthened, not weakened when we prepare to defend our shores.

 

 

I H , . .
. lhe flag of our dreams as to what Amer1ca IS and can be and Wlll be must not be
' iowered.

Always we must hold firmly that this part of the world with all its share of sorrow
umust still ever be kept a land of high courage.

W GWc/éu/x/

' 277

1 ‘ “ l I ' '11

Al

I . I. f! 'J..ll1 lll. Ill-II! )ILIIIUIqu-Iilial‘

  

'  - / hi0.¥uun.uur\nm~udau.?dr hlcan~®--..a 9 II Hutu—PG 0:3.ch “Hy . . I I 000' - . . l IOCnPNDJ .1.” ranEGcrr.J¢.dd.fumNnu 
I r
'

 

a) «2X.
.. .  (arroyo Euro...» 0...? 0.5:. ®
\Illl'. 1

A51.'

  

 

{0.51.30
PIQJQ. ergo... Ignacio. ©

ntuoucu..v a 0.150: 58.0 9

it Lufrnvdn nun”: $00.51 a CJO¢UHQ #2..) ®
.

 

o
. .GEuFQE (For: .u...........
vRtoFuanloln .rtuuuH ®

_ . torruun
.. ._. a Jarruriunxu e 430... ©
. 
  docunur 650un ®

9

J I
£46,232“ sex 6
‘.

  

   

U...“ - C.T...Gx .. E3.I.uu¢>
.1 ECU... - EOIDIuOOOOIk .9“anch

(ofruun OQOHUGUEL ©

._ U
 .uoacu com ©

1

VLLU v.00} .Z/UZ
fill} ZOCLWTUOQOG

torrUuauum 49,5..qu
Ht. 5 Duaqnumn. 5.5:. 5.5:. ®

._

. mahgaupkoz

...,, web unkcuzk ®
. I

.u aziccan
. torrqot30h ®

Fun... Lo u..co.\n
J

'l '- ‘ " '- :1

U:7:Um:> F055 5 023qu>>

xméd \fdquuo

2:5 mama   .4”, . 

ZU don >ODFW _.u  

 

  

a.

                          

,. . \\O~...P .rua..u...._.¢

OL- .LO.LrQF£n‘.—k e

t0.kuud
r... [datum—bu. nan—:0 @

A People’s Arboretum in a People's Park

GLEBAY PARK, West Vir-
 ginia, which has already
 attained a national repu—

Etation as a people’s park, was
§0nce the 750-acre estate of the

This account of the proposed Ar-

boretum at Oglebay Park and its
many unusual and interesting fea-
tures is based on the study made
by F. Ellwood Allen. Specialist
in Recreation Facilities. Na-
tional Recreation Association.

groups so that students of hor-
ticulture may gain more infor-
mation about plant habits, cul-
ture, and relationships. Due
consideration is given to plant

Elate Earl William Oglebay.
During his active life this vast
[rolling acreage known as Wad-
,ling‘ton Farm became an agricultural show place
)f the entire East. Upon his death, Oglebay Park
was bequeathed to the people of Wheeling who
ttccepted this princely gift through formal action
pf council in July, 1928.

_ The executors of the Oglebay estate, headed by
|3rispin Oglebay, nephew of Earl W. Oglebay,
yaw in this beautiful area an opportunity to de-

l‘l'elop physical and cultural facilities so necessary
'lo the recreational life of the people.

1 Ever since its inception as a park the develop—
nent of an Arboretum has always been considered
. definite feature of future plans. In 1937 the
\‘ational Park Service prepared a Master Plan
’or the Park setting aside an area of approxi-

fnately seventy acres as a site for the proposed
I Arboretum.

I On March 29, 1940 the Arboretum Committee
lit Oglebay Park authorized the National Recrea-
rlion Association to prepare a study with specific

 

.gecommendation for such a development. On

rune 19th the study was
. oresented before the Wheel-
lpg Park Commis-
tion, the Abore- r;
‘um Committee, and I - ‘ _ '  .
he Affiliated Gar- ..  '5; 
llen Clubs and was i' ' "
.dopted by these

Hm...

 

’urpose and Scope

In the traditional
ense of the word
I n Arboretum is a
|_"ientihc collection
.lf plants usually ar-
anged by families,
nd as far as pos—
ible, in generic

l

ill

The main valley of the Arboretum Proper

 

ecology. The Arboretum is then
an outdoor laboratory where
plants may be observed as they
grow in varying but entirely natural conditions.

Could an Arboretum built along traditional lines
adequately meet human needs at Oglebay Park?
Oglebay Park, since its beginning, has been a peo-
ple’s park, offering everyone an opportunity to en—
joy cultural as well as physical activities amid sur-
roundings of unusual beauty. It has done much to
enrich life, to make it more satisfying through
diversified activities. The Arboretum should be
designed in keeping with such a philosophy.

In order to carry out this policy, our usual
formulas will have to be discarded. An area ap-
proximately seventy acres in extent in the rear of
the Mansion House is the site for the Arboretum
Proper, but the study proceeds on the assumption
that the entire'acreage of the Park may be con-
sidered as an extensive Arboretum—so that exist-
ing Nature Trails, the unique Serpentine Drive,
the numerous valleys and hillsides and the vehicu-
lar driveways may be a part of the scheme.

This Arboretum is more than a scientific col-
lection of plants; by de—
signing it not for a few stu-
dents but for all the
people, and by at-
tempting to make
 . horticulture a defi-
  nite part of their
-  lives, it becomes an
Arboretum of and
for the people.

In order to dra-
matize horticulture,
it will be necessary
to create a series of
breath-taking dra-
matic effects. The
recent trends in
gardening, the re—
vived interest in

279

 

280 A PEOPLE’S ARBORETUM IN A PEOPLE’S PARK

 

horticulture among all groups of people, and the
vitality of the Garden Club movement justify this
radical departure. Obviously beauty will play an
important part in accomplishing the objective.
The driveways automatically become demonstra-
tion areas for roadside planting. There will be a
series of horticultural “stages” in the Arboretum
Proper, each presenting a striking dramatic effect.
This series of dramatic effects will attract people
at all times during the year, for these features
will reach their maximum beauty and emotional
appeal in different seasons. Impressive vistas,
great open spaces, masses of informal planting
carefully blended with the existing topography
will create pictures of incomparable beauty.

Such an Arboretum will lose none of its scien-
tific attributes. All materials will be carefully
labeled with their scientific and common names.
There will still be emphasis on plant ecology. The
Arboretum will demonstrate clearly to visitors
what can be done to create desirable effects with
plants in their own homes and communities.

There is no question but that the development
of an Arboretum of this type will have tremend-
ous repercussions, because it makes possible the
understanding and appreciation of horticulture by
all classes of people. The inspirational value of
this Arboretum will be reflected in homes and
communities throughout the state of West Vir-
ginia and in surrounding regions. To the student
it has a scientitic appeal; to the lay gardener it
shows the use of plant materials. It intrigues
those who have never worked with plants into
starting a garden of their own.

The Greenhouse and site of the
main entrance to the Arboretum

General Character of the Design

Simplicity is the basic principle in the
design of the Arboretum Proper. *The
unusual topography in the 70-acre tract,
with its open hillsides and Howing val—
leys, with its masses of existing natural
planting, will be utilized to the best pos-
sible advantage. Only in rare instances
will the topography be changed.

The various sections and features of
the Arboretum will be located not only in
conformity with the existing topography and nat—
ural and cultural features but from the standpoint
of accessibility as well. The entire area will be
accessible from many points along the circumfer—
ential drive. No provision has been made in the
Plan for vehicular traffic in the Arboretum Pro-
per. Despite the numerous separated entrances
into the area, it will be possible to visit all features‘
by following a continuous series of walks and
paths from any point. At three important spots
around the area additional parking facilities will
be provided, and the present parking area opposite,
the Greenhouses will be materially increased in;
size. Thus visitors will be able to park their cars.
within a reasonable distance from any particular}
point they wish to see.

Cognizance has been taken of the magnificent
views from certain vantage points. The design
increases the importance of this visual factor by;
planning new open spaces and additional vistas—4
thereby creating the illusion of distance and extent.

It is proposed that all walks be as natural as
possible. Many of these should be of turf and dc“.
fined only by a closer cutting of the grass, or, int
areas where much planting occurs, of gravel ori1
tanbark. To provide access for service trucks and
equipment, major walks can be constructed of a.
macadarn base covered with soil and sown to.
grass. There is no doubt but that it will be desir?
able that provision be made to allow those who
are unable to walk to use the drives as a means of
access to a specific section.

Detailed Description of Major Sections

This, then, is a view of the Oglebay Park AP;
,3

. well—deserving species. Due to the char-

A PEOPLE’S ARBORETUM IN A PEOPLE’S PARK 281

boretum as though it had been already created
according to the Plan:

Main Entrance (|)*. Every important area should
have one major entrance exceeding all others in
salient design and treatment, so it is necessary
that the Arboretum have a dignified and welcom-
ing entrance in keeping with its uniqueness. The
Garden Center and Greenhouses constitute the
focal point of the Arboretum, and at a point be-
tween the Garden Center and the Greenhouses the
Main Entrance has been conducted in an easy,
gracious manner, conforming as far as possible
with the existing topOgraphy. It may be necessary
to construct a retaining wall in the cut away bank
opposite the actual entrance for emphasis and

prominence.

Reading Terrace  Approximately two hun—
dred feet from the Main Entrance it was neces-
sary to break the grade with a terrace. This
Terrace is so designed and equipped to serve as
terrace and outdoor reading room. Here a Gar—
den Club may gather for reading and discussion in
a lovely environment. Here is an excellent starting
point for groups who wish to inspect the Arbo-
retum. Adeqtlately supplied with appropriate
benches, the Terrace affords a quiet resting place
for those who are weary on their retum through
the area. The Reading Terrace corresponds to the
lobby of a hotel, furnished with appointments
that are attractive as well as necessary.

Trial and Experimental Section  Directly in
the rear of the Greenhouses is an area composed
of regular terraces which has been set aside for
trial and experimentation—for trying out new
species and varieties of plant materials
and rediscovering old ones. The area is
of sufficient size to meet adequately the
demands of a number of years.

Recent Introductions and Little Known
Materials  The lower portion of' the
terraces to the rear of the Greenhouses
becomes an exhibition ground for more
recent introductions in the plant kingdom
as well as for a display of unfamiliar but

Section showing approximately the
site of the Theater of Horticulture

acter of the terraces, the plantings are formally
arranged. Sections are set aside for shrubs, her-
baceous perennials, annuals, bulbs, and small trees.

The development of a special rose section or
garden is not contemplated, so an area in this sec-
tion has been designated for some of the newer
and better hybrid teas and perpetuals. A small
collection of outstanding Iris, Peonies, and Lilies
may be found in this area.

Vine and Hedge Section  In order to separ-
ate the two sections just described and to provide
a support for a vine collection, a pergola has been
introduced between the Trial and Recent Intro-
ductions Sections (3 and 4). This pergola. ex-
tending from one side of the terrace area to the
other, is approximately three hundred feet long,
and each eight—foot division affords a support for
a separate vine in front and back. Dense types
are Used in the back and lighter in front, permit-
ting visitors occasional views of the landscape
beyond. One terrace immediately above the per-
gola contains a collection of' hedge materials which
screens the Trial Section (3). An axis in the form
of a path through the Recent Introductions Sec-
tion (4) has been developed and emphasized by a
special semi-circular design in the center of the
pergola. Benches placed in the pergola provide
visitors with an opportunity to rest and enjoy the
views from this point.

The collection of vines is impressive and fairly
complete, containing all the common vines and
some of the less familiar and newer types. This

* This numeral and succeeding ones refer to correSponding figures
on the Plan WhICh appears on page 278.

 

282 A PEOPLE’S ARBORETUM IN A PEOPLE’S PARK

latter feature ties in perfectly with the section
devoted to recent introductions and little known
materials. One plant of each vine provides a’suc-
cessful and educational display. The plants are
arranged as to color, texture, and time of fiower-
ing, for even before the F orsythia is in bloom, the
Hardy Jasmine will be in all its glory. Here we
find such vines as: Silver Lace-Vine, Kudzu Vine,
Climbing Hydrangea, a collection of the newer
Wisterias and Clematis, Akebia, Actinidia, and
Low’s Ivy.

In the hedge group, materials rarely used but
excellent for hedges are introduced: Alder Buck—
thorn, Laurel Leafed Willow, Hawthornes in
varieties, Amur Maple, and many others.

Shade Loving Plant Section  Just below the
Reading Terrace (2), and to the west, a section
rich in Maples and Poplars is provided with a
series of paths and large beds for' shade loving
plants. The collection in-
cludes a variety of shrubs,
small trees, ground covers,
perennials, ferns, and
brakes. Shrub possibilities
include -Spicebush, Sweet-
shrub, Viburnum in varie-
ties, Sweet Pepper Bush,
Shadbush, Flowering Rasp—
berry.

The possibilities in per-
ennials are almost unlimit— -
ed: Columbine, Virginia Bluebell, Shooting Star,
Day Lily, native Phlox, Primrose and Violet in
varieties, Snakeroot, and others.

Here also we find a collection of lovely ferns
and brakes with‘such striking examples as Regal,
Cinnamon, and Interrupted Fern, Polypody,
Woodsia, Spleenwort, Maidenhair Fern.-

One section of the area shows plants adapted to
dense shade, another to light shade, and still an-
other to partial shade. So many people ask the
question: “What will grow where it is too shady
for grass?” The answer to this and to many other
similar questions is found here.

Perennial Gardens and Collection  To those
who approach from the Main Entrance (I), the
Perennial Garden is the first spectacular display
in the Arboretum. From just below the Reading
Terrace (2) a walk leads to a six-foot wall and a
wrought iron gate which opens into the Perennial
Garden. '

On entering the gate one sees a mass display of
perennials and an impressive border on both sides

and outstanding

In an official resolution the Board of Park
Commissioners of the City of Wheeling
went on record as approving in principle
the general scheme for the proposed Ar-
boretumI and authorized the development

of working plans in conformity
ideas and suggestions submitted. "When
carried out." stated the resolution. "the
Plan will give Oglebay Park an Arboretum
which will be modern in its conception

- o 0 II .
'n “'5 eHeClWemSS- ary. The Garden 15 com-

of a thirty-foot grass panel. The width of the
beds varies from six to twenty feet, depending
upon the type of materials and the massiveness of
the planting. This perennial border is laid out in
a curved pattern so that it is not possible to see
the end of the garden from the entrance. The
visitor is intrigued into continuing through the gar—
den, ’following down the grass panel until a final
mass of color, more spectacular than any previ-
ously seen, climaxes the horticultural display.

The secret of this perennial treatment is to use
bold masses of material in heavy clusters, to de-
sign these masses so that an interesting bank and
skyline are created, and to provide a border of
continuous bloom throughout the year.

Here we find all of the well-known perennials
adapted to the private garden placed in attractive
arrangement according to time of bloom, color,

‘height, and texture. The introduction of spring

flowering bulbs in masses
adds much to the color in
early spring. Perennials that
form natural partnerships
and interesting effects are
grouped together.

The axis of the garden is
terminated by a small archi—
tectural feature such as a
bird bath or 'piece of statu-

with the

pletely enclosed by high
planting of shrub material. This thick screen
planting on the borders is one factor contributing
to the surprise element so fundamental in the
basic design of the Arboretum.

Visitors to this section see many perennials—~some
perhaps unknown to them—which are desirable in
their own gardens. A careful scientific labeling
acquaints them with the varieties and species in
this valuable and inspirational display.

Annual Section  A walk on the north side of
the perennial border leads to a section devoted to
annuals. Here again we have a border on both
sides of a curving path—-this one, however, more
informal in design. It consists of beds with a
maximum depth of six feet in which annuals can
be grouped in mass arrangement. The same
policy of planting, but on a smaller scale, is fol—
lowed in the Annual Garden as in the Peren—
nial (7). Here we find a general collection of an-
nuals grouped together according to color, height,

time of bloom, etc.
Shrub Arrangement Section  A great deal of

A PEOPLE’S ARBORETUM IN A PEOPLE’S PARK 283

time is spent in
teaching flower ar-
rangement in the
home, and much
emphasis is placed
on the effective use
of flowers in vases
and receptacles.
Many people, how-
ever, who are ac-
quainted with vari—
ous shrubs fan to
realize how they too
can be combined in
their planting for
dramatic effects.

The purpose of the Shrub
Arrangement Section is to cre-
ate interesting effects with shrubs in color, group-
ing, and type of growth. Arrangement is consid-
ered from the viewpoint of winter effects as well
as seasonal Hower and foliage. Here also visitors
may learn the botanical and common names of
horticultural materials. This section does not
demonstrate the use of specimen plants but
stresses, rather, mass planting for effect.

Plantation to Attract Birds (ID). A growing in—
terest in nature and Wildlife has resulted in many
inquiries on shrubs and materials that will attract
birds to private gardens. \Vhile this section is not
designed specifically as a bird sanctuary, in reality
it functions as such. Here again striking effects
are created in the planting of trees and shrubs, all
carefully labeled and classified. In this case only
those that are fruit bearing and that supply a
definite SOUrce of food for birds are used: Honey-
suckle, Spicebush, Flowering Raspberry, Indian
Current, Snowberry, Sumac in varieties, Wild
Grapes.

Bog Garden (I I). Where the east and west
branches of the brook.meet directly below the
Shrub Arrangement Section (9), a small dam has
been constructed to form a bog area—the Bog
Garden of the Arboretum. It is irregular in shape
and surrounded by paths so that a careful study
of materials can be made.

In this garden moisture—loving plants have been
introduced, not only in the bog itself but around
the edges and in the immediate vicinity. Masses
of Forget—Me-Nots, of-the blue and yellow native
Flag, and of Marshmallow add color‘and interest.
We find such plants as \Vhite Turtlehead, Butter-

 

On a bird walk in the Arboretum

Hy Weed, Joe Pye
Weed, Andrew’s
Gentian, Cowslip,
Crowfoot, Golden
Ragwort, Cardinal
Flower, Arrow—
head, Royal and
Cinnamon Weed.

WaterGarden ( | 2).

A path proceeding
south on either side
of the brook leads
to a small pond
created for a Wa—
_  ter Garden. The

pool has provided
opportunity for the culture of
aquatic plants, and, as in the
Bog Garden (11), the land in the vicinity has
been reserved for those trees and shrubs that do
well in a moist environment.

Here are such trees as Red Maple, Black Birch,
Black and Paper Birch, Sweetgum, American
Larch. Shrubs include Buttonbush, Spicebush,
Witch Hazel. Water Lily, Lotus, Cat-tails, Pick—
eral Weed are some of the aquatics which appear
in this Garden.

Field Wildflower Section (l3). Following along
the west side of the brook in a southerly direction
from the Water Garden (12), we come to an
open field where wildHowers grow in open sun-
light. Oftentimes we think of wildflowers only in
connection with wooded areas, forgetting that the
native habitat of many of the showiest wildiiower
species is the open field. The W ildHower Section
has been planned to make visitors realize this fact.
The following wildflowers play an important part
in the collection: Hardhack and Meadowsweet,
New England and other wild Asters, Goldenrod,
Butter and Egg, Blazing Star, Butterfly Weed,
Devil’s Paintbrush, wild Lupine, Daisies in
varieties.

Fall Color Section (I4). This section is one of
the most unusual examples of planting for dra-
matic effect. In order to show the importance of
fall color in the use of materials, a special section
has been set aside adjacent to the existing orchard
on the west slope of the Arboretum Proper. Here
trees and shrubs are grouped to create striking
fall color contrasts. The following well-known
materials have been used: Maples and Oaks, Sweet-
gum, Fragrant Sumac, Flowering Dogwood.

284 A PEOPLE'S ARBORETUJI IN A PEOPLE’S PARK

Spring House—Naturalized Bulbs (l5). South of
the Fall Color Section (I4), an area is devoted
to naturalizing bulbs. Great masses of bulbs have
been introduced into this section. Crocuses, Nar-
cissus and Scillas, Muscari and Snowdrops, and
some of the important tulip types produce strik-
ing effects. The color can be extended over a
considerable period of time and the sheer beauty
of the flowers is a high dramatic point in early
spring.

Herb Section—Stockade-House and Gardens (l6).
Those who have followed the interesting trends in
gardening during the past few years have noted a
revival of interest in herbs. both medicinal and
culinary, that at one time were an important part
of the old colonial garden.

Pot herbs are a prerequisite to good cooking,
and Chives. Parsley. Tarragon, Chervil, and surn-
mer Savory should be in everyone's garden. Gar—
deners have discovered that herbs are not only
valuable for their medicinal and culinary proper-
ties; many varieties add distinctive color and
beauty to the perennial garden. Sweet herbs with
their aromatic and pungent leav’es and flowers——
Lavender, Rosemary, Sweet Marjoram, Thyme,
and Basil—are being used more and more by
garden enthusiasts.

It is difficult to imagine a functional Arboretum
for the people without a complete collection of
herbs and a section devoted to their culture. The
Herb Garden has a rather unique setting. It con-
sists of a wire—woven sapling fence stockade six
feet in height, enclosing an area approximately
50 x 80 feet. In the southeast corner of the stock-
ade a building constructed of rough—hewn timber
with a stone fireplace and a thatched roof is the
focal point of interest. It has many functions: a
salesroom for bottled dried herbs, a museum of
old herbals and herb accessories, and a kitchenette
for serving salads and sandwiches of which herbs

are an important ingredient. Here one finds liter-
ature on herb culture and

the use of herbs.

Around the building,
resting on millstones, are
old—fashioned beehives
with their conical shapes
and thatched roofs. The
“Bee Garden" was a defi—
nite part of the herb gar-
dens of the past. A well
or dipping pool is another
very important part of the

The Garden Center Committee of Wheelingl
believing that the Plan for the Arboretum
will express in a very practical way the Com-
mittee's ideals for home and city
tion. voted to lend its full support to the
development of the proposed proiect. Simi-
larly the Arboretum Committee of Oglebay
Parlt, which has for many years fostered
the idea of an Arboretum in Oglebay Park,
also voted approval of the Plan. feeling
that it expresses the ideals of the Commit-
tee and the philosophy of Oglebay Park.

garden. W’ithin in the stockade the major Herb
Garden is placed. This is intricate in design—a
“Knot Garden” in which the formal bed shape is
outlined by low—growing herbs such as Santolina,
Thyme, Parsley or Chervil. Within the knots are
planted masses of various herbs. ‘

A “Wagon Wheel” Herb Garden shows how
herbs may be grown in a limited space. Such a
garden is made by sinking an old wagon wheel in
the ground and using the space between the spokes
for various varieties of herbs.

About the stockade a collection of the older
types of roses—including the Damask, Moss, and
Cabbage Rose—some of which are almost extinct,
are planted.

The Sweet Briar is used as a transition from
the severe formal-arrangement within the stock—
ade itself to the informal area in the rear of the
stockade. An opening on the opposite side of the
Main Entrance (I) to the stockade leads to this
informal section where herbs are shown in relation
to a perennial border. In an open area provided with
tables and chairs light refreshments are served.

The entire section is enclosed by heavy shrub-
bery in order that the Herb Garden may be seen
only at the site itself.

Ericaceous Section (l7). The Ericaceous plant-
ings are on the west slope of the southern portion
of the Arboretum—a location ideally suited to a
display of this family, perhaps the showiest in the
whole plant kingdom, including as it does the
Rhododendron, the Azalea, the Mountain Laurel,
the Scotch Heather. The many existing trees in
the area offer partial shade for the shade loving
members of the Ericaceous group.

Special soil treatment has been necessary for
the culture of this family in order to display pro—
perly their full magnificence. Therefore, this sec-
tion was developed in an area close to the main
drive, simplifying the problem of soil removal and
preparation. The Erieaceous Section is a further
example of planting for
dramatic effect, for it has
been so designed and
planted that visitors catch
glimpses of it from vari-
ous high points in the Ar—
boretum. As the area
stretches to the lake (18)
and is so located as to be
seen advantageously from
the main drive, the effect
of viewing the flowering

beautitica-

|i principle applies to each

A PEOPLE’S ARBORETUM IN A PEOPLE’S PARK 285

plants in relation to a body of water is truly
breath taking. During Azalea and Rhododendron

time there will be no comparable color display in
the Arboretum.

Lake and Islands (I8). A lake, approximately 650
feet long with a mean width of I 75 feet has been
created in the valley at the south end of the Ar—
boretum Proper. Two islands have been con—
structed in the lake and planted with trees and
shrubs. These islands are picturesque in them-
selves; they have created beautiful vistas and at
the same time have given an opportunity for foot
bridges, which are always an interesting feature
of an area.

At certain strategic points visitors discover
spectacular and dramatic effects. Around the
borders of the lake and on the islands many inter-
esting species of plants are grown. \Vater alone
means much to a landscape and a body of water
this size emphasizes the beauty of the entire area.
It can be seen from numerous high points and
when observed at close range becomes a reflecting
basin for the planting along its border.

Walk of the Seasons (l9). At the southern end
of the Arboretum Proper a winding, graceful
walk has been set aside as the
\Valk of the Seasons. It is di—
vided into twelve separ—
ate sections, each repre—
senting one month of the
year. In the January
division are plants valu—
able from the standpoint
of color, flower, and
texture during the month
of January. The same

succeeding month until
the final display is reach—
ed in December at the
end of the walk. Various
herbaceous materials as
well as trees and shrubs

are included in this sec-
tion.

1 Alpine Section (20). On
" the side of the lake 0p-
posite the Ericaceous
‘ Section (I7), a ravine
demonstrates the planting
of alpine—not only the
well-known plants but

Nature study in the Arboretum

 

also those that have adapted themselves to alpine
conditions. A small stream originating half way
up the bank is utilized as a delicate cascade about
which certain moisture-loving alpines are planted.

This section contains not only the bold masses
of stratified rock necessary to the growing re—
quirements for this group but also provides a
Moraine and Wall Garden, showing respectively
what plants will grow under the adverse condi—
tions of a glacial moraine and a dry retaining wall.

The Alpine Section is heavily planted so that it
may be seen in part from distant points but its
full beauty can be realized only through intimate
contact with it.

The Alpine Garden is probably the best example
in the Arboretum of dramatizing horticulture.
The installation of some lighting effects has been
considered in order to make it possible for visit—
ors to view the beauty of this area under night
lights.

There is much misunderstanding as to the con~
struction of an Alpine Garden. Here people learn
how a garden can be constructed so that these tiny
gems of Nature can be truly appreciated.

Philosopher's Walk (2|). In the classic garden of
i the Greeks a section was usually
set aside for the exclusive use of
those who wished to con—
template on Life and its
meaning. In such a place
walked Socrates as he
talked with his disciples
and sought to solve the
riddle of the Universe.

Deep down in the heart
of every individual at
some time in his life is a
yearning to let his
thoughts wander freely
in contemplation—for, in
the last analysis, all men
are philosophers. Then
why not a place accessi—
ble to every man where
beauty, goodness, and
truth can find expression
in silent meditation?

In the unusual environ-
ment of the Arboretum
it seems most appropri-
ate that a place of simple
beauty be set aside as a

286 A PEOPLE’S ARBORETUM IN A PEOPLE’S PARK

Philosopher’s walk. The planting produces light-
ness and delicacy in contrast to the bold planting
masses of other sections of the Arboretum. ISuch
materials as the White Fringe, the Weeping

Japanese Cherry, the light airy gracefulness of
the Tamarix, and similar shrubs should be domi-

nant. Benches intermittently spaced along the

\Valk provide opportunity for rest and repose.
This \Nalk, in reality, is a prelude to the Dream-

ery (22). _

The Dreamery (22). Leading from the Philoso-
pher’s Walk (21) is a path entering into an open
area carpeted with pine needles and completely
surrounded by a heavy planting of native Pine.
Here one may retire to dream or to gaze up at
passing clouds or a star-studded sky. There are
times when all men wish to be alone, and in the
Dreamery this desire can be fulfilled.

Harry Overstreet has said, “Some day, perhaps,
as we grow wiser about life and more generous
in its arrangements, we shall build ‘retreats.’ The
age of the monasteries is indeed over, but the
wisdom that conceived them is an enduring one.
For it recognized the serenity that can enter the
life of the individual when, for a time, he is en-
abled to sequestrate himself and move quietly
with his own brooding thoughts.”

The Dreamery is a very necessary part of the
Arboretum because it offers an opportunity for
close communion between Man and Nature. Here
is a Shangri-La, a Cathedral of Nature in inspir-
ing majesty.

Mountain Trail Section (23). A path, going in a
westerly direction from the Shrub Arrangement
Section (9), leads to the Mountain Trail Section.
Here we find exact reproductions on a small scale
of the various planting belts at different elevations
of an Appalachian mountainside. '

This area provides an excellent opportunity for
a study of plant ecology.

Plant Texture Section (24). At the extreme south-
west portion of the Arboretum, a section shows
the effects and relationships of plant texture. Too
little attention has been given in the past to this
important phase of plant design. Very fine tex—
tured plants have often been combined with ex~
tremely coarse ones without any thought of a
transitional planting.

This section shows many examples of plant ar-
rangements. Good and bad arrangements are pro-
vided and designated in order that the public may

realize the importance of texture in the planting
of trees and shrubs.

Evergreen Section (25). The Arboretum does not
provide a section specifically known as a Pinetum.
It does, however, contain mass planting of ever-
greens throughout the area and especially along
the northeast boundary. These evergreens have
been planted in irregular borders and in groups
where as many indigenous species as possible have
been used.

In connection with the great Belt of Evergreens
on the northeast boundary, transitional plantings
have been introduced. Thrusting out into the open
meadow in bold and striking lines, such material
as the Sweet Fern, the Fragrant Sumac and
brackens in masses tie in the evergreens with the
surroundings. In this collection we find many
varieties of Pines, Firs, Hemlocks, and Spruces,
with occasional use of horticultural and exotic
species in places where there is need for emphasis
and contrast in form and texture.

The Evergreen Belt acts as a backdrop for drae
matic effects in planting. For example, a mass
planting of Flowering Dogwood against a back-
ground of White Pine creates a startling picture.
Here again Flowering Crabs, Judas Trees, White
Birches are used most effectively.

Not only does the Evergreen Section provide
for a collection of corniferous material; it also
serves as the frame about the Theater of Horti-
culture (31).

Poor Soil Section (26). In the southeastern por-
tion of the Arboretum Proper a special area shows
plant materials that do well in adverse soil condi-
tions—in a specially created sandy, gravelly soil.
Here we find Five-leafed Aralia, Peatree, Bladder
Senna, Russian Olive, Privets in varieties, Alder
Buckthorn, White Kerria, Fragrant Sumac, In-
dian Current.

Nut Tree Grove (27). In order that, visitors may
become acquainted with the various edible nuts
grown in West Virginia, a section near the en-
trance to the Mountain Trail (23) has been re-
served for growing young trees hardy in this
region. The collection, properly labeled, includes
Walnuts, Hickories, Butternuts, Hazelnuts, and
others of the native species of the edible nut-
bearing trees and shrubs, together with those
exotic varieties that are hardy and can be ac-
climated.

.,—-'-
-—..~.-. .

I. i

A PEOPLE’S ARBORETUM IN A PEOPLE’S PARK

Lilac Walk (28). Because of the popularity and
interest in various varieties of Lilacs and their
spectacular display, a special path has been desig-
nated as a Lilac Walk. Lilacs are planted in
masses along a cultivated border on both sides of
the \Valk. By a careful selection of varieties, the
length of the blooming season has been extended
over a considerable period of time; and, as the
\Valk is one of the principal means of communi-
cation from the driveways on the north to the
other sections of the Arboretum, it is used rather
extensively. '

All of the numerous varieties of Lilacs have
not been included, but the collection shows those
outstanding varieties easily obtainable from local
nurseries which can be used in home planting.

Roadside Planting (29). Every road and drive in
Oglebay Park has been considered a roadside
planting demonstration area. This is particularly
true of the Bethany Pike, which receives the
greatest amount of traffic and is the only portion
of the Park that many tourists see.

The plantings harmonize with the existing and
future development plans for certain sections of
the Park and produce a series of interesting and
delightful effects. Because of the variation in
topography and soil types and conditions along
the road system of the Park many types of plants
have been used. Native materials, as well as bold
masses of flowering trees and shrubs, are used to
good advantage to create the necessary dramatic
effect. Here we find extensive planting of Flower-
ing Dogwood, Judas Trees, Flowering Crabs, and
the glorious Hawthorne. On steep banks the
lovely Prairie, Scotch, and Wichuriana Rose de—
light the motorist. Many of the native wildflow-
ers of West Virginia have been used in mass
planting along the roadside and one can scarcely
imagine a more striking effect than a mass of
Snakeroot in full bloom. An attempt may be made
to stabilize a section of Scotch Heather.

Foundation Planting (30). All of'the buildings
utilized in connection with the administrative
function of the Park demonstrate foundation
planting material. Many pleasing effects are cre-
ated through the use of foundation plantings
around these buildings. In addition to deciduous
material, evergreens have been used, and low—
growing ground covers and border plantings have

been introduced.

Theater of Horticulture (3 I  The great open
meadow and natural bowl created by the boundary

287

planting of evergreens on the northeast portion of
the Arboretum Proper constitute a major attrac-
tion of the Arboretum. This is known as the
Theater of Horticulture and is in reality a great
natural amphitheater whose broad expanse of
meadow is interrupted only at its boundaries by
the bold thrust of the evergreen border into the
area.

At the bottom of the slope a great planting of
trees and shrubs creates a natural stage elevated
slightly above the present grade. Upon this stage
the planting has been judiciously selected and is
of striking significance. Here are the most vivid
and loveliest of the plant kingdom arranged in
masses to create a continuous bloom. At no season
of the year does the stage lack the presence of
color. Here is a drama of the landscape in which
Nature plays the principal role.

This Theater of Horticulture, designed pri-
marily for its landscape effects, can, however, be
used for large outdoor gatherings. It is possible
to think of as many as ten thousand pe0ple gath-
ered in this great natural bowl to listen to the
masterpieces of the music world, an inspirational
speaker, or a great outdoor sunrise service on
Easter morning.

No permanent seating is contemplated in the
area for it is practical as well as desirable to
utilize the grassy slope as it is. i

As a setting for a pretentious pageant the plant-
ing becomes a natural cyclorama. The horticul-
tural materials on the stage have been arranged so
as to provide actual wings and backstage space
for use with any type of production. The stage
area is completely enclosed, providing opportunity
for backstage activity.

While it is not contemplated that the Theater be
used continually for such purposes, the point is
that it can be so employed if an occasion arises.

This is a picture of the Oglebay Park Arbo-
retum as it may appear after all of the various
sections have been developed to the best advantage.

The completion of the Arboretum as a whole
will undoubtedly require considerable time, but
certain sections can be constructed in the immedi-
ate future, so that gradually, over a period of
time, all features of the Arboretum will be com-
pleted, dedicated and opened officially to the pub-
lic. The near future should see the inauguration
of developments which will comprise the first step
in transforming an inspired dream into a magnifi-

cent reality.

Camping —August’s Popular Sport

This month everyone fortunate enough to be able to do it has gone
camping. Even though it may be at a stay-at-home camp, or in a
city park near at hand, boys and girls are having new and delight-
ful experiences and are getting acquainted with nature in ways
which will make for permanent friendship with the out of doors.

A Municipal Recreation Camp

By C. E. BREWER
Commissioner of Recreation
Detroit. Michigan

HE DETROIT RECREATION CAMP, municipally
Towned and operated by the Department of
Recreation, is situated on an ideal wooded
camping spot of 314 acres near Brighton, about
45 miles from Detroit. A lake with excellent
swimming facilities forms the natural division
which separates the boys’ camp and the girls’
camp, each of which is operated as a separate unit.
The camp has a capacity of 400 children per
week, 200 boys and 200 girls. No other camp
within 250 miles of Detroit can accommodate so
many. The charge is $7. 50 for the first week and
$6.00 for each consecutive week, which includes
the cost of transportation to and from camp. The
fees charged are set so that the camp would be as
nearly self-supporting as possible. In computing
the cost of operation there was some question as
to whether the land and the depreciation cost
should be included, but it was decided not to make
this a part of the fee.

The camp was planned and is operated for the
thousands of children who cannot afford the higher
priced camps and do not
want to go to the charity
or organization camps. It
was planned to give the
sons and daughters of
parents of average means
an Opportunity to experi-
ence the community life of
camp, the exhilaration of
the outdoors, and the mys-
teries of the world of na-
ture. Here they can absorb
the democratic principles

288

Of the more than titty camps operating out of
Detroit. some are organization camps restrict-
ed to members. others serve underprivileged
°boys and girls. and still others are private
camps whose tees restrict their clientele to
children of high income families. Private camps
charging moderate fees are increasing in the
Detroit area. but these camps accommodate
not more than from fifteen to twenty campers.
Among these various types of camps the Detroit
Recreation Camp occupies a unique place. for
while its rates are moderate it provides for
as many as four hundred campers per week.

to which the system of camp is geared so they
can make better adjustments to living their daily
lives when they return.

Open to any child between the age of eight to
fifteen years who can pass the physical examina-
tion, the working mother can send her child to
camp during the vacation season with her mind
completely at ease as to the child’s care. The child
from the broken home, who has only one parent,
can Find at the camp the stability that comes from
normal routine and in the companionship of chil-
dren of his own age. Parents who wish to take
a summer trip may safely leave the children at
camp and not add greatly to the expense of their
vacation.

The cabins for sleeping are of permanent con-
struction, well ventilated and equipped with elec-
tricity. Sanitation is modern and rated 100 per
cent by the state of Michigan. Each child is pro-
vided with a steel cot, which has a felt mattress
and feather pillow. A counselor sleeps with each
group of nine or ten children.

A fleet of Hat-bottomed boats is provided for
the lake which divides the camp, making possible
boat races and water pageants. The recreation
halls, which are equipped with fireplace, pianos
and stage, provide a play place for rainy days,
augmented by a library whose books are furnished
by the Detroit Public Library, and a pleasant,
woodsy ci‘afts cabin.

Each camp has a resi—
dent nurse, and the camp
health is supervised by ‘
daily visits from a physi-
cian who can reach camp
in ten minutes in case of
an emergency. Each child -
is given a heart, throat,
and skin examination on
arrival.

Tempting, well-balanced
meals are served, with

CAMPING—AUGUST’S POPULAR SPORT 289

special attention given to
children who are under-
nourished. Most children
gain weight after a short
stay in the camp and par—
'- ents have reported that
.the children built up a
greater resistance to colds
than they had had previ-
ously.

Campers are transport-
ed to the camp by busses
from one of the recrea-
tion centers. Returning
campers are brought to
ithe same place by the
busses on “their return
trip. Campers bring their
own blankets and bedding.

Experienced recreation

workers direct the camp
activities and supervise the
counselors, who have had special training in chil-
dren’s work. The activities are selected to build
in each child an awareness of nature and a sym-
‘pathy and enthusiasm for the open.
l In planning the program care has been taken to
.emphasize the activities not possible in the city.
‘Hikes, nature trails, bird study, tree and plant
'identiflcation, open up unexplored territory to the
l city child. Council fires, dramatics, corn roasts,
and parties, while they add greatly to the fun,
'also bring out initiative, teach cooperation, and
,open the way for loyal companionship.

Skills are developed through the handicraft
program carried on in the shade of large trees in
the woods. Tennis, baseball, softball, and other
team games engender a healthy competitive spirit
‘controlled by an appreciation of good sportsman—
‘ship.

‘ The bathing beach at the Detroit Recreation
‘lCamp is carefully supervised by a swimming in—
structor, assisted by counselors who are required
to have American Red Cross Life Saving creden-
tials. Every camper receives individual instruction
and few leave camp unable to swim. As part of
the safety program the cap system is used, that is,
beginning swimmers are supplied with red caps.
’When they are able to pass their first swimming
test and are fairly competent swimmers, they are
given a blue cap. A white cap is awarded to very
‘good swimmers who pass a strict second test and
ithis cap indicates that they may swim in deep
I

t

 

J

 

 

 

 

'l
5.

 

Pack baskets may be made from splints from a
swamp-grown ashl as this camper demonstrates

water. The swimming
area is roped off ; shallow
water for red caps and
small children; a little
deeper for blue caps and
a raft and diving plat-
form with a high board
for advanced or white
cap swimmers. Instruc—
tion in life saving and ar—
tificial resuscitation is
given and many campers
earn their Junior Life
Saving emblems at camp.
The camp will celebrate
its twenty-fifth anniver—
sary this summer. From
a small camp on rented
p r o p e r ty accommodating
about twenty children who
were housed in tents, it
has developed into one of
the country’s most modern and progressive camps.
It fills a very definite need in the recreation pro-
gram of a large industrial city and occupies a very
special place in the lives and hearts of the many
thousands of campers who have enjoyed its hos-
pitality.

A Camp That "Just: Growed"

By PAULINE L. ANDREWS
SeattleI Washington

OUR DAY CAMP was like Topsy— it “just
growed.” We didn’t intend to start a day
camp at all. In fact, it rolled up like a wave be~
hind the Y.M.C.A. physical director who took five
boys for a swim one day at Millersylvania State
Park, twelve miles from Olympia. The next day
his small roadster panted into the park with no
fewer than fifteen youngsters aboard. The third
day found the director the most popular man in
town, and the local creamery loaned him an anti-
quated ice wagon for the thirty children who
clamored to “go swimmin’.”

Seven days later a schedule of four trips a week
had been worked out, and we were in the business
of running a day camp with an attendance of one
hundred to two hundred children a day. In that
one short week we had found a sponsor, arranged

for the use of Millersylvania State Park, com—-

290 CAMPING—w/IUGUST’S POPULAR SPORT

mantleered a WPA staff, transportation, passen-
ger insurance, and newspaper and playground
publicity, and we were off on a six weeks’ recrea-
tion program which hadn’t even been thought of
when the season started!

Sponsorship came from the Recreation Coun-
cil, a branch of the Coordinating Council which
was just being formed. The influential members,
school and business people, composed a pressure
group which never failed us. What we needed
for the camp, whether it was ice cream or insur-
ance, they somehow secured. They had no treas-
ury, but the dimes brought by the children bought

the essentials and paid the salary of the swimming.

teacher.

The camp site, although made to order, was not
an item of expense. Washington state parks are
free to anyone who wishes to use them, but we
called on the park supervisor and secured his co—
operation. That call paid dividends in many ways,
primarily because it enlisted the help of the super—
visor and smoothed the way immeasurably. We
were no longer simply “the public.”

Millersylvania State Park covers five hundred
acres of virgin timberland on the shore of Deep
Lake; straight Douglas firs grow to the very edge
of the water. The park equipment exceeded our
fondest hopes. I think most directors of public
camps must dream of Such a place. The water-
front layout included an enclosed shallow area for
beginners. The rafts and walks were solidly con-
structed of huge cedar logs and planned for safety.
Buildings, fencing, markers, were all of hand-
hewn logs, the work of a nearby CCC camp.
Bathhouses were large, well located, sanitary, and
freshly scrubbed each morning before we arrived.
Locker space was assigned to us, and a WPA
worker took charge of checking. The sanitary
facilities were new, modern, and adequate; rest
rooms were disinfected and hosed daily; drinking
fountains were numerous. To this splendid layout
we added our meager equipment, consisting of the
Y.M.C.A. softball outfit and a well-stocked first
aid kit supplied by the American Red Cross.

Our lunch tables were fairly isolated and near
one of the more remote community kitchens. We
were removed from both the beach and the sec-
tion of the park most used by the general public.
The park was less frequented during the week
than on Sunday, and some days found us with the
whole five hundred acres to ourselves. Occasion-
ally some organization would stage a picnic, but
the problem of visitors was seldom serious. The

State had played Santa Claus, but the Federal
government gave us our WPA staff. None of the
workers were trained in recreation so they were
assigned to take care of lockers, food, attendance
records, and bus driving. Several took life saving,
courses and became life guards. This left the,
Y.M.C.A. director and the swimming teacher free:
to teach and direct. (In the last two years the.
\VPA help has been largely replaced by volun-i,
teers and N YA workers. This seems \to indicate;
that we are gaining more local interest and;

support.) 

Of course, our toughest problem was transport
tation, for the camp was twelve miles from town.
A local insurance firm came to the rescue with.
rock-bottom rates on passenger insurance. The;
school board offered the sixty-passenger school;
busses; four oil companies donated gasoline for}
the season; W PA furnished drivers. Our biggest
difficulty was solved. '

Publicity really wasn’t a problem at all. The;
local daily paper printed our initial announcement}
conspicuously on the first page. It gave careful
attention to our safety set—up and our sponsor:
ship, which, we believe, started us out with the
confidence of the parents. Although that story.
and one rewrite a few days later were our only
advance publicity, the idea took hold so fast that

announcements at the playfields gave us a turnout
of over one hundred the first day. '

Attendance grew like mushrooms. Our original
idea had been to take the girls one day and the
boys the next, thus running two days weekly;
The plan was inadequate, so we scheduled four.
trips each week and took both boys and girls
from one playfield each day. The two smallest
fields went the same day. This plan was much
better; less time was required to pick up the chil-

dren and they constituted a homogeneous group
already acquainted. ‘ r

A Program That Just Happened!

With transportation and sponsorship out of the.
way, our plans were only started. There still re-
mained the question of a daily program of activi-:
ties. The first day at camp set the pattern which
we’ve never changed. It just happened, for noth;
ing except the swim schedule had been planned.
We were racking our brains for an after-lunch
activity when the busses filled with children
drove up.

Swim classes were under way by eleven o’clock}
“All out!” came at twelve, and a mad rush for

. CAMPING—AUGUST’S POPULAR SPORT 291

I lunch found the campers at the tables by 12:30.
All through lunch we worried. What activity
iwould keep such a large group quiet for half an
I hour right after lunch? Songs, of course, but no
lone on the staff was an experienced song leader.
YEW e tried singing for a while anyway, using songs
';the children already knew. At the end of fifteen
[minutes we were at a loss, although the children
ihadn’t begun to suspect.

And then a girl with a huge orange sucker in
her mouth came up and said in a syrup-impeded
voice, “Can we have a Major Bowes hour?”

We were stunned. A program with no planning?

“Why, I guess we could,” the director stam-

jmered.
“Can I be Major Bowes ?” came in a flash of

i'eagernes's from behind the sucker.

We looked at each other and grinned like fools.
,Unorthodox, but why not try it? The girl with
‘the sucker announced the idea, appointed a talent—
drafting committee, and in fifteen minutes the
back of the ice cream truck had become a stage,
the top of the ice cream freezer mounted on a
stick had become the “mike,” and the “Major”
was drawling, “All right, all right.” A line of
-eager performers waited impatiently beside the
istage to do their “act.” A very good vaudeville
‘show went on for forty—five minutes with tap
idancing, songs, skits, acrobatics. The winner was
decided by group applause and presented with an
iextra dish of ice cream.

Then we divided into groups for games, base-
ball, nature hikes, tumbling, and story or rest hour
for those who wanted to do something “just
quietly.” At three o’clock came the recreational
swim and the busses were ready to leave at 4:15.

That program became our design for camping.
The campers demanded it. A waiting list of
‘talent developed, and we were a proud camp staff,
watching our campers take over their hour with
ilittle help from us. . Perhaps the idea will wear
tout, but it hasn’t yet, although some _of the acts
are showing signs of wear and we are beginning
to hope that the local tap teachers will learn some

new routines.

 

 

 

 

Taking Stock of Accomplishments

i

! And then the summer season was over. We
’wound up with a huge play day, and the two
thousand persons present included parents and
sponsors. '\-Ve relaxed to clean-up details, com-
'jplete records, and decide what, if anything, had
[been accomplished. Our camp had grown up be-

i
I!

fore we had time to get our objectives clearly in
mind. We surveyed what we had done.

In a town located in a county with over twenty
lakes but with no swimming place within five
miles, we had taught over_two hundred children
the rudiments of swimming and water safety. A
survey the previous spring had disclosed the fact
that over half the children between ten and thir-
teen were nonswimmers and that the beaches of
the county were uniformly poorly supervised. We
had begun a water safety program which has
continued and grown.

But we had also given a fine outdoor trip to
over seven hundred and fifty children, and over a
third of them has six trips. We hope that we have
given them a taste of a healthful, inexpensive type
of recreation they will want to continue when
their day camping days are over.

Best of all, though, we had reached children
who needed that outing. Some underprivileged
children had to be outfitted with bathing suits;
only seventy per cent could pay their dime each
week; a few didn’t always arrive with lunch. But
as we started home at the end of a hot summer
day, we could look the length of a big bus over
rows of sunburned faces and past bathing suits
rolled into tight, wet knots, seeing some shabby,
sleepy youngster supported by an older brother or
sister, and we would know that he’d had a grand
day and a good lunch. And then we would realize
that even if we had “just growed," we had
“growed” into something worthwhile.

New Mexico Campers

Discover the Indian

By BOB HATCH
State Club Director
New Mexico

IGH IN THE MOUNTAINS of New Mexico
H might be seen last summer a blazing camp
fire, around which were gathered an enthusias-
tic group of club members singing their favor-
ite songs or listening to stories of the first settlers
in this section, the Indians. In View of the fact
that many of the boys and girls in New Mexico,
once the home of many of the" more interesting
Indian tribes, do not realize the important part
played by the Indian in the settlement of the

292 CAMPING —-AUGUST’S POPULAR SPORT

country, an Indian theme
was used in all the camps.

After arriving in camp
and registering in the Camp
Log known as “4—H Camp
Hieroglyphics,” 01‘ ganiza-
tion of the camp was begun
on the Indian Pueblo basis,
with the Pueblo Governor
as head of the camp. The
Governor was one of the
4-H Club delegates and he
had as his assistant a camp sagamore. Other of-
ficers of the camp were the scribe, who was the
editor of “Hieroglyphics”; the medicine man, who
was in charge of rituals such as flag raising and
lowering, camp fire lighting and candle lighting;
and the camp song leader. After these officers had
been selected, the camp was given an Indian name
and emblem, and the delegates were divided into
tribes. Each tribe then held its meeting, electing a
tribe councilor, who was the tribe’s representative
on the camp council; a peacemaker, who was in
charge of disciplining the tribe; a song leader;
and a tribe scribe to serve as a reporter on “Hiero-
glyphics.” After these elections each tribe made
up its own Indian name and symbol, song and
yell, and frequently the more original groups
would create their own Indian dance and cere-
monials. Through this tribal system the club
groups from different communities in the county,
and often from different counties, had the op-
portunity to mingle and become acquainted. We
found, too, that organization on the tribal basis
served as an excellent basis for friendly rivalry
and competition between groups.

When organization had been completed, the
camp council, made up of camp officers and the
tribe councilors with the camp advisers, met to
formulate camp rules and regulations. While this
was under way other club delegates did some of
the necessary camp chores such as gathering logs
for the camp fire, building a council ring, erecting
the flag pole, and laying out various game areas.
Thus by the end of the organization period the
camp was not only well organized but well equipped
for recreation and entertainment.

At the End of the First Day

Supper on the first day was always a 'very in—
teresting meal because of the good time everyone
had playing games and getting acquainted. The
meal always began with the singing of a grace,

During the summer of I939. 2.500 4-H Club
members and their leaders attended county

and district camps arranged for 25 of the
3| counties of New Mexico. In many cases
the money to finance these camps was rais-
ed by club members through plays. box sup-
pers. carnivals and similar affairs. All arrange-
ments for the camp site. transportation
and the buying of food were left to county
extension workers and 4-H Club Councils.
Most camps were of three or four days'
duration —days packed full of activity.

with everyone standing.
Seating arrangements were
such that no close friends.
and, if possible, no two dele-g
gates from the same club;
would be at the same table;
This encouraged mixing and
getting acquainted. At the
hrst meal those at each table.
were organized as a family;
They selected their family.-
name, usually something.
original, and then one person was designated as}
“Pa,” and others as “Ma,” “Junior,” “Grand1na,”;
“the hired hand,” “twins,” and so on until each had
been assigned a family relationship. Pa was thenl
asked to stand, give the family name, and intro-f.
duce other members of his family. After all the:
introductions had been made, each table wrote thel
words of a song describing the family. Familiar"
tunes were used. Before any table was permitted;
to have its dessert each was made to stand and}
sing the family song. Usually to end the meal with)

a good time for everyone, the hired man was:
asked to tell his favorite joke. (Just as a tip to.
those who wish to use this idea—always censorl
the hired hand’s jokes before they are told!) At:
the end of each meal those assigned for K. P. duty‘
for the next meal were announced.

Immediately after supper the medicine man‘
gathered the group around the flag pole while the,
flag was lowered to the tune of the “Star-Spangled?
Banner.” If time permitted, get-acquainted games
were played after the evening meal. Just at dusk;
the group gathered in the council ring for a 4-H!
camp fire lighting ceremony and the explanation"
of any camp objectives. At this first meeting therj'
camp governor read the rules and regulations-
formulated by the camp council in the afternoon:
meeting. The first evening’s entertainment always ,l,
consisted of movies and marionettes presented by;
the Extension Service. Several movies of 4-H.l
Club work in New Mexico were shown. The"

.r
marionette show, presented twenty-five times dur- 1
ing the summer months, was “Ferdinand the Bull.” '
It proved most entertaining to the boys and girls. l

4

After the group had retired, an amplifier was
set up in the center of camp and a thirty minute
program of music was played to help quiet the
group and also to teach appreciation of good
music. At the sound of taps each evening the

camp became quiet.

I
l

r
I

l

- mony on the third day came

Chill/[PING —- AUGUST’S POPULAR SPORT

The Second Day

The second day’s program started with a flag
raising ceremony followed by a short hike and
group singing. After breakfast the camp was
again divided into tribes for group conferences.
Those presented on the first day were bead craft,
woodwork, recreation in the home, wildlife con—
servation or nature study. Around the dinner
table, after all had spent a full morning attending
conferences, family games were played, and the
feature of this meal was the tracing down of the
family tree by “Ma.” The thirty minutes after
dinner were designated as a rest period, with the
next hour and a half as a free period for playing
games such as horseshoes, box hockey, shuffle-
board, checkers, or for practicing some craft
which the campers had learned in the morning.
'The latter part of the afternoon was devoted to
Isoftball and volleyball tournaments between tribes.

At the evening meal on the second day each
Qfamily selected some well—known character and
dressed up one of the children in the family to
jrepresent this person. Two who will be long re—
membered were a girl dressed as Cleopatra and
a boy as Napoleon. And Napoleon met his Water-
loo when he met the charming Cleopatra! During
lthe course of the meal each table was requested
,to dramatize the story connected with the charac—

ter chosen.

The second evening was devoted to a camp fire
.program which was typically Indian in that all
‘were asked to sit around the council ring .with legs
jcrossed in Indian fashion, each wearing an Indian
blanket. The camp governor and medicine man
IWCI‘E‘, in charge of the Indian camp fire lighting
{ceremony After the ceremony one club member
ltOld the story of the origin of fire. This was fol-
flowed by the singing of Indian songs by the group.
{Then came Indian dances and legends by club
‘members and club leaders. Each tribe sang its
‘own tribe song, and Indian games .were played.
A short statement was given about “the Indian
ilanguage, followed by an Indian prayer by the
tmedicine man. This ended the evening’s program.

I
I

A Nature Hike on the
Third Day

’ After the flag raising cere—

l . .
lactive games and group smg-

ling, followed by a nature
"hike, always greatly enjoyed.

advantages

293

Group conferences again occupied the morning
hours, and a conference on hobbies and one on
music appreciation were added to the first day’s
program. In the afternoon the finals in the soft-
ball and volleyball tournaments between tribes
were played. This did not, however, end the
rivalry between tribes.

In preparation for supper each person was
asked to make a novel hat of newspapers, leaves,
flowers, or any other available material. Some of
the hats made by the boys and girls would easily
have passed as the latest fashion when they ap-
peared decorated with pine cones, birds’ nests, and
flowers!

As the evening meal on the third day was the
last main meal of camp, it took the form of a
banquet. Each camper attended wearing his novel
hat; newspapers were torn into small bits to serve
as confetti. The camp governor acted as toast—
master, using a dummy microphone, and different
groups and individuals were called on to sing
songs, tell jokes, put on stunts, or provide some
other form of entertainment. After supper, as a
fitting opening for the delegates’ evening pro-
gram, a camp parade was organized. The campers
all made costumes from newspapers or blankets
and marched in the parade, which was led by the
camp band with dummy instruments. The drum
major, with a high paper sack shako and a bright
colored raincoat uniform, was a most impressive
sight! The parade ended in the recreation hall on
a stage which had been prepared for the enter-
tainment. Each tribe was responsible for thirty
minutes of entertainment, and original stunts,
songs, and short plays were cleverly presented.

On the morning of the fourth day, just before
the breaking up of camp, the camp grounds were
cleaned, bed rolls made, and everyone shared in
the general camp clean-up. The camp program
ended with a model club meeting in which the
group wrote letters of thanks, distributed the
“Camp Hieroglyphics,” and made such awards as
a loving cup of two funnels for the tribe scoring
highest in the sports tournament. After the busi-
ness meeting and a picnic lunch, the group broke

camp and started the trip
homeward.

"There are without doubt many types of
organization possible for club camps.
but the type which places responsibility
for organization and program in the
hands of club members themselves. as

in the case of this campI has great
to offer the campers.ll

“In camp, of all places, de-
mocracy must have complete
opportunity. Camps flourish

best where there is freedom
of spirit.”—IVillfam G. Vina].

Thursday Night at l-liram l-louse Playground

IKE .\ MEDIEVAL fortress the walls
L' of Hiram House, in Cleveland,
isolate the playground from the roar and bustle
of \Voodland Avenue. The iron gates of the set-
tlement which face East 29th Street are always
open, offering a universal welcome to children and
grown-ups who live in this drab neighborhood.
\Voodland Avenue stretches, a road of speeding
automobiles and heavy traffic on market days, a
motley of second-hand furniture shops, pool
rooms, and cheap restaurants. Although it is ironi-
cally called Woodland there is hardly a tree along
most of its bare length. It is flanked on two sides
in this district by Orange Avenue and Scovill
which are as symbolic of an area that has seen its
best days as the great avenue itself. Along these
streets with the gloomy, unpainted houses, ren-
dered monotonously alike by the prevalent smoke,
there are strange little shops where lucky oils are
sold to a gullible public. The policy game Hour-
ishes in many of these places and crime, delin-
quency and superstition are in their familiar
setting.

It is from these streets, fraught with peril and
temptation for the growing boy, that the Hiram
House playground offers a refuge and a sanctu-
ary. Here under the guidance of trained leaders
there is an opportunity for games of every kind.
In the guise of' a miniature community whose
welfare depends on the cooperation of its citizens,
the playground has been run with great success.
Good work is rewarded by recognition and the
slackers are usually won over in the course of the
season. Temporary exclusion from cherished ac-
tivities is the only disciplinary measure applied,
and it seems to be enough in a community where
self-respect and the respect of your neighbors is
of primary importance.

When Thursday Night Comes

The gates of Hiram House are usually open
to the idle boy or girl who is
looking for a place to spend
his time. However, there is
one exception. On Thursday
evenings during the summer
the gates are locked for it is
the gala night of the free

294

By JAMES LIOTTA

Hiram House playgroundl established in
I900l is now leased to the City of Cleve-
land and is being operated cooperatively
by the city and Hiram House Settlement.
of which George A. Bellamy has been

the director for more than forty years.

moving picture show during the,
hot months. 

At about six o’clock the crowd begins to gather.”
Children of every age and nationality begin to;
swarm about the huge gates. They peep through}.
the iron bars at the leaders and other playgroundl
citizens who are setting up the huge screen on}
which the movies are projected. The huge loud;
speaker is attached; it is a somewhat rudimentaryr
sound system, but it is effective. All the technical?
work is done by Hiram House boys. The screen;
is stretched taut and it is soaked with water so
that the image is clear.

Scattered in different parts of the playground;
are small stands where milk is sold for three pen-,
nies. While the preparations are being made, the
crowd outside the gates is growing larger. Many:
adults have joined'the waiting group. When the
screen has been set up, at eight o’clock sharp the
gates are flung open with an air of ceremony;
What a motley crowd surges through those open
gates! Thousands of children crowd beside grown
men and women who have come to spend an en:
joyable evening. Grizzled Italian laborers stand.
beside dark—skinned Mexican women pressing
wide-eyed little Mexican babies to their breasts;
Little tow-headed Poles and Russians mingle with -
black-haired Italians. Bashful little Negro chil:
dren hold hands with their older brothers, sisters,‘
expectant and solemn-faced and laughing. 

Soon the whole playground is covered with an
eager throng. On nights when the weather is most l
favorable four thousand and more have been}
known to come into the playground. Order is
maintained in this large crowd by a group of
competent leaders scattered about in strategim
places. Sticks are taken away from those carrying:
them, bicycles are relegated to the sides, and safetyll
and order are established. Sometimes there is fl
WiPA orchestra that offers its services. The or-l;
chestra is stationed on a little platform under thei

screen. Here the musician: ,

sit and now and then singer: I

or tap dancers “strut theil

stuff.” The crowd is always

appreciative, always eager.

They will listen to anything
(Continued on page 336)

‘Magic in the Recreation Program

AGIC HAS LONG been recognized as one of
i M the world’s oldest arts; it has always been

a source of amusement, entertainment, and
interest to both young and old throughout the
lages. And today magic has a definite place in the
New York City’s recreation program because the
Park Department, recognizing its value as a rec-
reational medium, has given it an important place
" in the recreation program.
. Clubs in various phases of the art of magic have
grown up in the playgrounds of the five boroughs
'of Greater New York. Latent talents are being
iconstantly discovered and encouraged in children.
:In order that these young people may display their
ISkill before their friends, exhibitions are held
twith competitors from other recreation centers in
{the city. Lesson plans and study aids have been
‘compiled for use in the program, and materials
,and bibliographies collected and classified for use
in the clubs. This material has been gathered as
a result of intensive experiments and wide ex-
*pcrience with thousands of children.

The first Magic Club was formed at McLaugh-

'glin Park in 1931 in response to constant requests
on the part of children for more information and
guidance. Other groups were created in neigh-
boring parks and playgrounds as interest in this
new phase of recreation spread. In 1935 the work
thad progressed to such an extent that a Magic
;’Review of the unique talents of the children was
k'gresented to mark the first anniversary of the
[opening of the model Roosevelt Playground.
} Seeing the possibilities of magic as an important
l:factor in recreation as well as in the educational
work of the Division of Recreation, James V.
lélulholland, Director of Recreation for the Park
"Department, further encouraged the development
of the program by assigning
l1 traveling troupe of enter-
Lminers under the supervi-
'sion of “Peter Pan” to give
y‘aliows and demonstrations
hf the various phases of
:znagic in all the playgrounds
imd recreation centers in the
I five boroughs. This led event—
l =Ially to the establishment of
, many more magic clubs.

1

 

l

The Department of Parks of New York CityI
recognizing the value of magic as a recrea-
tional medium, has so successfully incor-
porated it in its program that it is find-
ing it difficult to meet the demands. The
author of this article' known as the "Peter
Pan" of the Park Department, gives demon-
strations of magic at the various park play-
grounds throughout the tive boroughs to
the great delight not only of children but
of adolescent boys and girls and adults.

 

By ABRAHAM B. HURWITZ
Playground Director

The clubs are interested in magic and kindred
arts including many novel forms of creative rec-
reation which have not as yet been popularized in
the average recreation program. Club members,
ranging from six to eighteen years of age, study
through the “play way” unusual forms of paper
tearing and folding, parlor tricks, puzzles, various
phases of shadowgraphy, chalk talks, sleight of
hand, rag, sand, and smoke pictures, optical and
psychological illusions, juggling, Punch and Judy,
marionettes, ventriloquism,
and other forms of dra-
matic expression and imita-
tions such as pantomimes,
magical games, plays, skits,
and stunts. In fact, there is
some form of magic ex—
pression or activity for
every chronological and psy-
chological age level and for
every type of child. These

295

296 '

can be adapted to all the mental attitudes in which
a child's mind expresses itself and may be shaped
as an interest-arousing device to meet his school
and personal problems. ’

Magic groups have been found a valuable aid
in keeping children happily occupied on rainy days
and providing a constant source of entertainment.
Upon special occasions and at playground parties
members of the clubs are ready to contribute to
the entertainment planned by presenting special
entertainments of their own creation such as
magic operettas, puppetry plays, using shadow
puppets as well as the conventional marionettes,
magic reviews, and black art demonstrations.

Magic clubs give children an opportunity for
creative self-expression, and “learning through
play" is their keynote. Trying to do things, learn-
ing a skill, a scientilic principle, a secret of magic,
means starting a child’s mind on a wonderful ex-
pedition, a charmed adventure from which it will
come home laden with treaSUres—among them the
satisfaction of knowing something others do not
know, and the joy of making others laugh, or
keeping an audience bewildered and mystified.
The sensation a child experiences in coordinating
muscles with music, the skill of finger dexterity
in manipulating a coin or a ball, and the ability
to give joy to others are a few of the experiences
shared by the club members.

Magic Compels Attention

Attention is a'command in the army. T0 at-
tract attention is the first law of salesmanship.
Teachers in schools must have the attention of the
children. Unlike the army, business and schools,
playgrounds do not solicit or require attention.
The activities by their very nature must attract it.
Recreation leaders are agreed that a normal child’s
spontaneous interest best expresses his needs at
the moment. The satisfaction of this interest fast-
ens itself on his mind through the enjoyment it
affords and may lead in the future to a worth-
while avocation or vocation.

Magic compels attention and arouses interest.
It is a common denominator interest among chil—
dren. Many children find in it a source of eduea—
tion and amusement for themselves as well as of
entertainment for their friends.

Not only is magic being used as a factor in rec—
reation, keeping children occupied with an activity
that is fascinating, absorbing, and endless in its
variety, but it is also being used as a means of
visual education to correlate with school work in

.MAGIC IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM

mathematics, shOp work, sciences, and other voca-
tional and avocational interest.

Dr. Thrasher, head of the Department of Soci—
ology at New York University, has said: “The
failure of clubs to hold their membership during
junior and intermediate years is disastrous be—
cause these boys pass through the most critical
years for delinquency at that time, and if influ—
ence is not lirme established in these years any
further efforts will be futile.”

Magic clubs composed of boys at the ages to
which Dr. Thrasher refers have been exception—
ally successful in holding their members.

Possibilities Unlimited

For countless centuries knowledge of magic and
skill in it were conlined to a limited few. The
small amount of material and literature on the
subject was zealously guarded, and this secret
knowledge was passed down from father to son.
Magic was used to foster superstition and fears,
and to take advantage of the uneducated masses.
In modern times it has become more of an art and
less of a mystery. Today there is a wealth of
material and information available to everyone.
The art of magic is no longer a link to the Dark
Ages. It acquaints the present—day youth with the

superstitions and fears of yesterday and sharpens .

his mind for the problems of tomorrow. It is a
hobby for the ever—increasing leisure of modern

times; it is a form of play, a mode of thinking I

and acting in the ever-increasing complexity of
business, science, and general living.

Magnetism and the gyroscope were used ex-
clusively by magicians only a few decades ago.
Today they play important parts in modern science

and inventions. Astrology and alchemy, former '

branches of magic, were the forerunners of mod-
ern astronomy and chemistry. Many scientific
principles of light and sound were used as demon—
strations during the nineteenth century. Thus, as
the science of today is made up in part from the
magic of yesterday, it is possible that the magic
of today will become the science of tomorrow.
There is need for men and women equipped

with a knowledge of psychology and magic to in— ‘

struct playground directors in the theory, prac-
tice, and sources of information for this new form
of creative recreation, which in the hands of
skilled and educated leaders may be used as an
outlet for self-expression, as well as a form of
creative and dramatic expression.

' (Continued on page 338)

Such leaders '

Wandering Bed and Board

E HAD a week’s

holiday coming

to us, Stuart
and I.

It had never seemed
so important to make
the most of it. Like
everybody else’s jobs
ours have put on extra pressure in this year of
Our Lord, 1940. And the pressure keeps on after
office hours. \Ve live in a welter of newspaper
headlines, radio commentators, newsreels—all
Ishrieking war and catastrophe.

It isn’t easy to escape. Of course you can start
out in the car, a week’s luggage packed in the
rumble, and set forth on the open road. The
.trouble is that sooner or later you have to stop.
Then, whether it’s a de luxe hotel or a “tourists
accommodated,” you’re back in the welter. Same
newspapers, same commentators, same newsreels.
All the people with whom you come in contact
talking the same things.

But there is a way out of it—to cut yourself
off entirely from the world of people. To go into
the wilderness with your bed and board on your
back. To take the best of all holidays, camping
afoot.

On a morning that was coming clear after a
night of rain we parked our car at the site of the
‘old Dolly Copp Farm on the eastern slopes of the
White Mountains. From the clearing the densely
Wooded valley of the Great Gulf curved back into
the heart of the Presidential Range. We studied
{the massive, bare peaks that enclosed the distant
head of the valley. Dark, ragged clouds still clung
ito the summits—they were remote, unattainable,
vaguely threatening. They stirred an impatient
'. longing to climb up among them. _

\Ve swung the rucksacks to our shoulders and
*plunged into the solid green wall of the forest.
"Five minutes away from the clearing we had the
thing that we had come for. We were out of sight
and hearing of the highway. We were a million
miles from the world of people, the world in
which all your possessions, interests and activities

ire entangled with those of everybody else. In
)ur packs — they weighed under twenty-live
pounds apiece—were a tent, blankets, cooking kit,
food for five days—all that we needed to be

"No one who hasn’t been afoot with all
his possessions on his back can know_
the meaning of the word freedom.”

By EDWIN MULLER

sheltered, warm and
well fed. We were
complete as we stood.
We couldn’t get lost
because home was
right with us. We
were the freest men
on earth. I

The trail wound along the West Branch of the
Peabody. Sometimes the forest was a closed roof
overhead, shutting out the sky. The pine trunks
rose to great heights before they branched; we
walked on a soft carpet of the needles. Then we
came out on higher ground, clear of trees. There
we saw long vistas of the valley, looked up at the
dark blue peaks ahead, still half veiled by the
shifting clouds.

N ow the trail mounted more steeply toward the
upper levels of the valley. Climbing steadily, hour
after hour in the thin mountain air, the brain
drifts into a pleasant trance. Thinking about any-
thing becomes impossible, worries are non-exis-
tent and the sharp outlines of consciousness
melt in a rosy haze. Yet more than ever before
one is vividly conscious of being alive.

Up side valleys were glimpses of the lofty
upper flanks. Here and there they were scarred
by great gashes where the spring avalanches had
torn away broad strips of the forest.

We stopped to rest whenever we felt inclined,
wherever a soft bed of moss looked as if it had
been put there for the purpose. By noon we began
to search for the night’s camping place. After a
day or two we’d carry the weight all day without
noticing it, but now we were soft from city living
and the pack straps were beginning to bear down.
No need to drive ourselves, we weren’t On a
schedule.

We left the trail and explored off to the right.
Probably we had the valley all to ourselves but
we wanted for our lodging the luxurious extreme
of privacy, away from even the traces of human
footsteps. We worked down a steep bank to the
edge of the stream. Crossing it was a doubtful
business as it was in flood from recent rains. The
water came tumbling and screaming down over
the big boulders in a tumult of hurry. A fallen
log spanned it and we inched across astride it, as-
suring ourselves that the log was sound.

297

298 WANDERING BED AND BOARD

There was a perfect camp site a hundred yards
up stream. An open space among the pines that
gave a clear view of the valley’s steep headwall
towering two thousand feet above. A level’stretch
for the tent. In front of it the stream broadened
into a crystal-clear pool that had scooped a smooth
hollow out of the solid rock.

You must have system in making camp. First

unpack the rucksack, find a place for every object
and keep it there when not in use. It’s fatal to
strew things about. Hang the food bags on limbs
away from porcupines’and other pirates. Clear a
’space of stone and brush and put up the tent.
\Vhen it’s taut and firm you’ll stop and gloat over
it as you would over a new house that you’ve just
built. There’s nothing more satisfying than a
tent. Men lived in them long before they had
houses, and the instinct of the nomad is still
deeply embedded in all of us. To be a free wan-
derer and yet to have a home—'—that’s what the
tent means.

Next the beds. With the little pocket ax cut a
great mass of pine twigs,
cram them into the feather-
weight browse bags, lay
them on the ground cloth
of the tent, arrange the
blankets on them. Then get
in the fire wood, half again
as much as you think you'll need, sound dry sticks
that haven’t lain on the ground to rot. Put a little
wood in the tent in case it rains. Unpack the cook
kit—the frying pan with the folding handle, the
plates, spoons, forks and cups that nest snugly
inside the two aluminum pots. Now the chores
are done.

In the afternoon I went off alone, exploring the
'side of the valley. I clambered up the bed of a
steep, tributary brook, pulling myself up by roots
and branches, crossed a watershed, came down by
another brook. When I got back to the floor of
the valley the sun was below the rim of the head-
wall, the line of shadow was swiftly climbing the
forest-mantled opposite flank. Reaching the main
stream I thought that it looked somehow different.
Maybe I was on the wrong one. I had a faint
touch of the cold chill of panic that is the most
terrifying sensation of the wilderness, the feeling
of being lost in the woods with night coming on.
If you’ve ever felt it it’s easy to understand how
men have lost their wits, started to run blindly,
battered their heads against trees, collapsed
exhausted.

"You can go into the woods with some par-
ticular purpose: to fishI to hunt, to pho-
tograph wildlife. Or you can go with the
most adventurous aim of all—merely to
see what's on the other side of the range."

I shouted—no answer.

It was nonsense of course. I couldn’t be lost
here. I sat down, got out the contour map and
compass, studied the situation. There was only
the one main stream, clearly I had only to follow
it and I’d come to camp. But reason is a poor
defense against blind, instinctive fears. When I
started I found myself stumbling in my haste.
The trees seemed thicker overhead, darkness was
coming down like a relentless curtain.

Within half a mile I turned the corner of a
bluff—the sky lightened—there was camp. The
little tent stood up stoutly, the pans and dishes
were in an orderly row, Stuart was leaning over
preparing to light the fire. Home. Smouldering
panic vanished in a puff. '

Dinnertime. Our fire was built in a hearth con-
strtlcted of flat stones, the upper two set close
enough together to hold the pots. For this first
night we had brought a steak; later we’d have to
do with cured meats. Steak broils very well in the
frying pan if only you beat the. pan hot enough
before the meat goes in.
After you sear it in the hot
flame set it on the glowing
embers that you have raked
aside. In one pot rice, in
the other a mish-mosh of
dried fruit—prunes, apri-'
cots, peaches and figs. A heavy sprinkling of brown
sugar over the compote when it’s done. The cof-
fee is boiled after the rest of the meal is eaten.

All of it tastes far better than if a guide had
cooked it for you.

Indeed, everything about the wilderness has a?
better flavor if you do it yourself. \Nhen you go; .

with guides you are merely a tourist, taken out to
look. at scenery, catch fish or whatever. When.
you’re on your own the whole wide forest belongs
to you.

We leaned back and lit our pipes. Now it was:
almost dark under the trees, the light was fading?
even on the upper rim of the valley. Wisps of.’
cloud curled down over the lip of the headwall.
The forest pressed in upon the contracting open
space around the tent.

This is the moment when, if you were camping
alone, the feeling of isolation would seize you.
In the daylight you were free to move, to turn
back any moment to the world of people. Now
you are irretrievably cut off—alone. But your.
misgiving lasts only for a moment. Then peace
envelopes your soul. The wilderness is no hostile

   
  
 
    

l
l

t

' l
I

It
'I

i ' ready to eat all
| the bacon we

IVANDERING BED AND BOARD

world—here you are at home. \V e talk a little,
desultorily of plans for tomorrow, of the
weather, of climbs that we had done together. No
mention of war or the state of the nation. Not
that we consciously avoided them; it was rather
that here these things were far away, without
reality. Soon we crawled into the tent, hollowed
out our beds in the fragrant pine boughs and
drew the blankets around us. The clatter of the
stream grew fainter in our ears.

I woke in the dark to a great rushing sound.
The wind was swooping over the headwall, roar-
ing down the length of the valley. The leaves
were churning. the boughs groaned. A spatter of
rain struck the tent, then another and soon it was
drumming steadily on the canvas a foot above my
head. Stuart sat up wide awake. We were afraid
that the tent might blow down or water Hood
under it. But it was well set on high ground and
the guy ropes held firm. Our gear and ourselves
were safe and dry. \V e went luxuriously back to
sleep, filled with vast content. _

The dawn is at first a cold, unfriendly time.
The woods are dank and dripping, the light is a
dirty gray, last night's frying pan looks greasy
and unappetizing. There ought to be somebody to
give you breakfast in bed.

Our faint resolution was spurred by events.
There was a great rattling and banging outside.
\Ve slid out quickly. A dark, furry shape was
nosing at the pots and pans. In
the dim half-light it looked as
big as a young bear.

A porcupine
is a stolid brute,
contemptuous
o f m a n . H e
disregards beat-
in g s wit h a
stick that would
make a mule
run.Bef0re
this one was
put to flight we
were warm and
wide awake. A
wash in the icy
water of the
pool made us

 

had brought for
the whole trip.

A meal out in the open always tastes
better if you have cooked it yourself

 

299

That day we were ambitious. We planned to
climb up out of the valley, mount above tree line
to the bare peaks and set up our traveling home
right among the clouds.

The tent was down and all the baggage stowed
in the sacks by the time the sun was over the rim
of the headwall. Last night’s storm had cleared
the weather. W'e started under a blue sky. “7 e
climbed slowly, iirst through tall pines, then
through lower trees. \Ve passed clumps of bould-
ers as big as cottages, crossed steep ledges. \V hen
we could look out we saw the valley {ioor sinking
far below. It was a solid green carpet, with no
break to show last night’s resting place. The light
green of new foliage picked out a pattern against
the darker tone of the pines.

Higher still the pines were stunted below a
man’s height. Their limbs were gnarled and
twisted like the writhing fingers of witches. They
all pointed in one direction, straining away des-
perately from the north, from the screaming north
wind that rakes them through the long winter.
Even now in summer it was a bleak and savage
region.

A camp site was found at the extreme upper
limit of the scrub, where above was only the
naked rock and the tumbled chaos of boulders.
There was a strip of moss level enough for the
tent. A tiny spring of black water trickled out
between two rocks.

This was harder living than
last night. Our mattresses
weren't as luxuriously thick,
it was too much
labor for us to
hack enough
branches from
the iron-hard
scrub. The’fire-
wood had to be
rationed.

But it was
worth the hard-
ship to sit shel-
tered by the
tent after din-
ner and look
out over the
world. \Ve were
on that upper
rim of the
1' headwall that
yesterday had

 

Photo by Reynold Carlson

300 ll/ANDERING BED AND BOARD

seemed such an immeasur-
able height above. It was
the roof top of New Eng-
land, the crest of the Presi-
dential Range. At our back
the rocky cone of Jefferson
rose another five hundred
feet. Curving to the left
were Adams and Madison
with their long connecting
ridges. Curving to the right was the ridge that
bore the Summit of \Vashington, still tipped with
cloud. Down in the vast horseshoe thus enclosed
was unbroken forest. Looking across it the eye
lifted to range after range of blue hills, melting
at last in the far horizon.

In the valley that cut across the lower end of
the horseshoe was a little cluster of dolls’ houses,
a curl of smoke rising from them. Other than
that there was no sign of man in all the world.

Lonely? No——it was rather a feeling of escape,
of complete release from the clashing jangles and
discords of the world of people. And the release
was the more complete because we were living
here in the high places, not merely walking
through them from one human habitation to
another.

The tingling excitement of it was increased by
a trace of danger. This would be no place to
linger in stormy weather. The wind blows so
hard that a man cannot stand against it. Hail and
snow pellets strike like bullets. The driving mist
shuts off all vision. Within sight of where we sat
half a dozen men had died of exposure.

But now the sky was blue and the world was
peaceful.

We shivered that night although we put on
every garment that we had and drew the blankets
close. It was well after dawn before we made
ourselves unknot from our stiff-limbed huddles
and go out into the day.

Then we looked out, startled. Overhead the
sky was still clear. There was no mist ,at our
level. tut below in the valley a great mass of
clouds had gathered. It was a billowy ocean that
extended as far as we could see. The mountain
summits, those near at hand and those far away,
stood up from it like islands.

As we watched, a glow 011 the horizon bright-
ened into fire. The rim of the sun rose out of the

sea of cloud. The great peak above us turned
crimson. . . .

"You will never get away from it. The sigh-
ing of the wind through the pine trees and
the laughter of the stream in its rapids will
sound through your dreams. On beds of silken
softness you will long for the sleeping song
of the whispering leaves above your head.
and the smell of a couch of balsam boughs
. . . in great cathedrals you will remember
the friendly forest."—From The Summer
Camp, published by Camp Fire Girls. Inc.

Almost anybody can go
camping afoot. Twenty-five
to thirty pounds is an easy
load for the average healthy
man, if he doesn’t go too
far the first day. If a man
and woman go together they
can weight the loads in her
favor so that they are both
ready to stop at the same
time to rest or to make camp for the night.

You don’t have to be experienced in woodcraft.
It’s like golf—the tyro can enjoy it from the
start and the more he learns the more fun he has.
Of course the beginner won’t plunge at first into
the more remote wilderness, not until he has
learned to use compass and contour map. Camp-
ing afoot can be as safe as going to church.

There are a number of good manuals of wood—
craft—and don’t let anybody tell you that you
can’t learn anything about the woods from a
book. Naturally book learning must be tested by
experience. You won’t sleep as comfortably or
dine as well on your first trip as you will later on,
but that's not a big price to pay.

It’s the cheapest of all vacations, cheaper than
staying at home. The equipment costs less than a
good set of golf clubs and lasts for years. Once
you’re in the woods with your food on your back-
you can’t spend a nickel. The wilderness sends in
no hotel abills. And, while vacation hotels are
much the same the country over, the wilderness
gives“ you different lodging and entertainment
every time.

The state and national parks and forests are,
an enormous area touchoose from. Maine woods,.
White Mountains, Green Mountains, Blue Ridge,__ I
Great Smokies, Ozarks, Black Hills —and of
course the whole outdoor empire of the Rockies.
You can set up your traveling home in sight of '
snow peaks, by the side of broad lakes far awayl“
from motor roads, on the cliffs of a rocky coast,l
on salt water beaches that are still untouched by-.
man. There’s hardly an inhabitant of the United
States who isn’t within a day’s travel of wilder- s
ness where he can bury himself from civilization. 
Wilderness that is kept untouched and unspoiled
for its owner—you. :

You can’t get what the forests and the high
hills have to offer by living in hotels or camping
just off the highway and making little daytime
excursions.‘ You have to penetrate to the inner

(Continued on page 332)

     
  
  

Guiding the Camp Counselor

H0 ARE the counselors
Wthat help form the

framework of our
hundreds of summer camps?
\Vhat is their great contribu-
tion to camp? Does the di-
rector, through her guidance
program, help them to release
their own talents and abilities
so they give to camp and get
from camp the utmost, or are they interviewed,
accepted arid merely taken for granted? Can they
give most to camp by drifting from one camp to
another each summer or should they be retained
for several seasons?

\Vhat the answer is to each of these questions
depends on what one thinks of camping in rela-
tion to education. The summer camp is now filling
a needed place in the education of the child and
adult. New objectives and principles are rapidly
formed; improved plans are made yearly; duties
of counselors are changing along with new em-
phases in the camp program. Several years ago
the counselor’s duty was to help the child enjoy a
vacation; following this came the stress in the
creation of new skills and the development of new
interests. At the present time skills are not the
chief goals, but guidance in skills in order to be
of greater benefit to
camp, home, and the
community. Camping
does not close at the
end of the season, but
is a part of the yearly
' activity at home and
school. All of this means
the continuous educa-
tion of the counselor as
well as a reorganization
i and a greater emphasis
on the camp director’s
guiding philosophy for
counselors.

In most camps the
director, with the help

By GENA GRUBB

Glenwood, Iowa

"What about the camp counselor?" aslts
one of them. and she makes a plea for
more guidance of the counselor by the
camp director, for greater interplay
of ideas. and more opportunity to make
a real contribution to camp lite.

administration of a particu-
lar camp. But the director,
through her guidance pro-
gram for counselors as well
as campers, builds ideals, cre-
_ ates attitudes, and broadens
interests. Not enough atten-
tion has been given to the
guidance of counselor groups
to enable them in turn to be
most capable of guiding others.

The camp director has the responsibility of
fifty to two hundred people in a girl’s camp. If
the camp has both junior and senior divisions, her
responsibilities are of a wider scope. She must be
a versatile person, social in nature, of wide and
unusual experience, a student of human nature
with a good sense of humor, a buoyant spirit,
with a zest for living. Her plans, ideals and as-
pirations for camp must be timely and afford
variety; she must be alert to economic and social
problems, scientific interests and pOpular fads and
fancies. Her task is a gigantic one if only dealing
with groups of one age level, but she cannot for-
get the counselor in her plans for summer camp.

Consider the Counselor!

Camp is considered the place for campers to
have fun or achieve the
various things the par-
ents expect. How can
these ideals and many
others be fulfilled un-
less the counselors who
are so closely associated
with campers are receiv-
ing compensation
thrOUgh a guiding phi-
losophy of the director?
It is no easy task under
most camp programs
for the director with
heavy responsibilities to
think of the needs of
the counselors. Some

camps offer some form
of guidance through a
counselor - training
course from eight to

301

' of members of a gov-
l erning board, sets the

standards and policies,
| and plans the general

 

302 GUIDING THE CAMP COUNSELOR

ten days at the opening of the camp season, or
other camps may have a two or three day pre—
camp training period.

What is the theme of the counselor’s meetings
which are of so much interest to curious camp-
ers? Camp problems are discussed in relation to
the camper; perhaps there is a short talk on crea-
tive camping by the director, or plans for visit-
or’s day are formulated. It is necessary to dis-
pose of this business as quickly as possible for
there are other duties needing attention. There
seems so little time for counselor guidance in the
whole scheme of outdoor living! How can the
counselor be inspired to do creative work when
her interests, desires and wishes are not given
scope for development through a guiding philoso-
phy of the director!

In most of our camps emphasis is placed on
progressive methods employed; on activities origi-
nating within the groups of campers and coun-
selors. Plans are made according to the wishes of
the group, yet our methods used are far from
progressive, and sometimes stilted, superficial and
undemocratic. A long view of camping is needed
instead of season-to-season fragmentary education
with a new director and a new set of counselors
each year. '

In a well-known camp which prided itself on
being progressive, in formal discussion on a variety
of questions was encouraged before bedtime. The
idea was to encourage spontaneous, original and
creative discussion. The counselors found no
Special interest in discussion at this particular
time, and any attempt to guide the talk: resulted in

mere chatter and drifting conversation. The court;: jig,

be a full-time one, and not for late spring and
summer only. In the spring she is so hurried with
the duties of registration for campers, with inter-
viewing counselors and a host of other tasks, that
she overlooks any guiding principles for coun-
selors in her effort to get a permanent staff com—
pleted at least two weeks before camp opens. Much
of her time should be spent at camp instead of
away from it, as is the present custom. As con-
ditions now exist her interest in camp can be only
seasonal, and When occupied with other duties she
gives little thought to camp until the-period for
engaging counselors arrives, when .interviewing
begins, and the bartering ends at the close of the
summer.

Another general guiding principle for a director
or leader should be to broaden the program and
enrich the experience for all. Emory Bogardus in
“Fundamentals of Social Psychology” classifies
leaders according to four types: The group com-
pellor, the group exponent, the group representa-
tive and the group builder. The camp director
should be the latter type, but she cannot build a
camp without considering the counselor’s contri-
bution and development. The wise director uses
the stimulation, suggestion and inspiration of
counselors in such a way as to share responsibili-
ties with counselors and campers. She plans within
her counselor group ideas for self-guidance and
leadership according to individual capacity. If the
director thinks too far ahead of her counselor
group, the results are liable to be disastrous be—
cause her methods will appear visionary and revo-

 ‘Wlutionary. She will need to guide step by step;
"‘iigradual evolution with counselor-camper partici-

selors reported discussions of greater value growél-  pation makes for a happy successful camp.

ing out of some incident out on the trail, when a
group were doing a bit of handcraft, while mak-
ing their beds in the morning or sweeping their
cabins. The counselors must be free and ready to
guide campers, taking the leads offered by camp-
ers at various times.

Counselors need individual attention from the
director, and as there are different age levels in
counselors there are meager interests to be en-
riched and others to be developed. This should
be a part of the director’s guidance program.
Delegation of responsibilties according to abilities

and needs, and freedom in 'which to grow should -

be one of the director’s guiding principles for
counselors. '

This will take more of the director’s time than“

she is now giving to camp, but her position should

Who Are the Counselors?

The counselors should be individuals who re—*
ceive delightful experiences from recreation, __
otherwise their spirit will not be contagious. This.
group in camp varies considerably in age; they,
as well as campers, come from various home en-.
vironments. They express a diversity of interests
in life and some hold positions of responsibility.
in teaching and other related fields. A few are
just out of the adolescent stage who are seeking
experiences with children and adults to enable
them to hold responsible positions. Some have
problems of insecurity and other difficulties. The
problem of the director is to so guide this coun—.
selor group toward self-direction, adjustment and.
establishment of right ideals and attitudes so nec-

GUIDING THE CAMP COUNSELOR 303

essary for camp and for other fields of work they
may enter. The task is not simple when coun-
selors shift from camp to camp each summer.
Some plan whereby counselors would remain for
more than one season is desirable and would help

the individual to attain wider experience in camp-

ing and to see its relationship in the development
of the whole child in home, school and community.

The counselors come to camp for numerous
reasons. With some it is a primitive form of
barter, an exchange of services for experiences
with children and young people. With others it is
service in exchange for some compensation and
health, love for nature, maintenance and other
things. There are those who need time to gain a
new perspective on life to enable them to make
adjustments and to meet the demands of our
rapidly changing social order. Many of these
adults have been trained in schools and colleges
which stressed specialization in certain occupa-
‘ tions and professions that fitted one for a limited
type of work, but as machinery has replaced labor
numerous economic problems have become acute
so that at the present time predictions seem to in-
dicate the need for one to be socially adjusted
and to have a diversity of interests and occupa—
tions to which one may turn for a living.

Camp could give the counselor practical experi-
ence in leadership in many fields, opportunities to
do eXperimental work and an acquaintance with
’ areas of occupations through a good camp library.

If all opportunities at camp were made available
j for the counselor groups, camps would be open
the entire year and accessible for counselors and
campers at any time. Counselors would then be
l able to make a definite contribution to camp and
. the community.
' Life at camp, many feel, has become stilted,
narrow and inexpressive. It might well be reor-
‘ ganized and built upon a new set of principles.

Fields for Study

Some of the fields for occupational and profes-
‘ s'ional study at camp are listed as follows:
l There is first of all food service work involving
.quantity buying with prepara-
jtion and serving of food for
achildren and adults. This in-
cludes tasty lunches and

easily prepared wholesome
food for the camp fire.

' In the broad field of hand-
jcraft leather, tin, beads, crepe

"The camps which produce the best re-
sults are camps with a high degree of
democratic participation on the part of
the campers. a thorough-going system
for reaching each boyI and unusually
expert and well-trained leadership."

—Goodwin Watson

paper and numerous things are at hand waiting
to be used.

The community theater, with its scenery-con—
struction, lighting. make-up, acting and costume
designing, offers a challenge.

Writing of original plays for camp, and research
in the field of religious drama with adaptations
for camp are greatly needed.

Swimming and life saving offer another field
for service. Interest needs to be stimulated in
learning to swim for fun and health. There are
still many lives lost each year during the summer
holidays because of a lack of knowledge of this art.

The world of nature should be made accessible
for others. An acquaintance, knowledge, and un—
derstanding of plant and animal life add richness
to living.

Skill in dancing and land sports of all kinds are
worthy of a counselor’s best interest and knowl-
edge.

What a field for study exists in camp music!
Some improvement has been made in the past few
years, but much is yet to be done.

The camp library has been badly neglected.
There is much free material available or a great
amount that can be purchased at a small cost that
should be in every camp library. Valuable scrap
books of all types could be made; a wide variety
of books could be acquired if an effort were put
forth.

There would be an excellent opportunity for
journalism if the program of activities were wide.

The building of simple rustic camp furniture
as well as furniture made from crates, boxes and
barrels found at camp affords an interesting
activity.

A camp could maintain a flower and vegetable
garden, and plans for its growth would more than
repay any counselor who would undertake it.

It would be profitable for camp to keep a few
domestic animals, such as cows, pigs, sheep and
horses, the number depending on the acreage
available. Riding horses are about the only animals
seen at camp at the present time, and they are
usually eight to ten miles from camp and pro-
vided only for those who
take special riding lessons.

An interesting variety of
poultry could easily be raised
on a small area at camp.
There is a broad field for
study here. Camp offers an
excellent opportunity for a

304 GUIDING THE CAMP COUNSELOR

“m
study of domes—

tic animals and
poultry, but
nothing has
been done in
these fields.
Camp for the
city child and
adult has been
in too great a
degree merely
a reproduction
of metropolitan
life instead of
any awakening
to new aspects
of life outside
city interests.
To make an
extensive study
of these topics
would require
new principles, plans and or-
ganization for camp.

“If good educational methods
are desirable in stimulating in—
trinsic interests of campers in ac—
tivity, they are also desirable for counselors. The morale
and spirit of the counselors are very quickly reflected in
the morale and spirit of the camp. No camp morale can
rise above the level of its counselors.”—Hcdley S. Dimock.

The counselors in our camps wish to be recog-
nized as individuals and they want the director to
know what they are doing. Do they like apprecia—
tion of work well done and an opportunity to ac-
quire new skills? Witness the delight of an adult
counselor who has learned to swim at camp or the
happy expression resulting from a bit of hand-
craft work completed! There is joy in sharing
the new experience with counselors, campers and
the directors; the recognition of new avenues of
occupations and professions open to her brings
delight. The time taken to acquire the new skill
should not be thought of as a skill gained at the
expense of the camper; often the latter enjoys
seeing the counselors make the same struggle to
acquire new skills as she finds necessary. The
director should see in this another of her guiding
principles; namely, that counselors and campers
grow in knowledge and skill according to the
ability of the individual.

Recreation for Counselors

Under our present system of camping, activities

are provided for campers, but there is little for

 

In transplanting trees grown in the camp
nursery at Tanager Lodge. these campers
are both increasing their knowledge of
nature lore and sharing responsibility for
camp beautification and improvement.

counselors in

" the way of rec-

? "ma.

reation on an
adult level.
What con sti-
tutes enjoyable
activity for the
counselor varies
with age, ex—
perience, cul-
tural status, in—
telligence and
other factors.
For some it will 4
be a hike along
a favorite or
unknown trail
with time to
study plant
life ; for others
it will be a
canoe trip with
a cook-out, a chance to write
letters in some shady nook
away from the rest of the
camp without being thought I
disloyal. Some enjoy the op-
portunity of visiting other camps for an exchange"
of ideas with other counselors and directors which
makes for wider growth and development. These
activities on an adult level need to be considered
and given a definite place in the whole plan of’
summer camping.

Photo and copyright by Fay H’elch

What has the small group of two or three"
formed within the larger counselor grOUp to con—
tribute to camp? Sometimes fear arises on the:
part of leaders, thinking disloyalty will result if:
these small units are formed. These are natural.
mutual relationships, and the director should help.1
the small group to make a contribution to camp. -
At times counselors can participate better in the-I
larger group by sharing and combining interests;l
creative work will result from the united effort l
and the interactions of people which will be better ,5
for all concerned. For example, small groups of; i'
counselors and campers may undertake a certain. i
project which originates from a small groUp dis~ I
cussion. As others become interested, groups join, '
and there is the combined effort of a number of
small groups all sharing responsibilities and work-
ing toward one goal. People live and carry out

(Continued on page 333}

Television as a New Aid to Recreation

HE STUDIO blazes with

lights from powerful

flood lamps. Technicians,
wearing head phones behind
which trail long wires, are
busy moving props around
and rolling up a huge futur-
istic-looking camera mounted
on heavy rubber tired wheels.
The cast of players and par-
ticipants stand around, their
faces glaring grotesquely in
their heavy movie make-up.
Then a hush falls over the entire group as the
master of ceremonies steps forward into the
bright circle of light directly in front of the
camera. Another telecast is about to begin.

clothes and is

Television, the infant giant of the communica-
tion and entertainment world, is just now grow-
ing out of its swaddling clothes and getting ready
to make its bow as a new and powerful influence
in our daily lives. What does this new develop-
ment hold forth for the field of recreation?

Many recreation departments across the coun-
try have already learned to make excellent use of
the radio as a tool in their public relations pro-
gram. Television, through the infinite possibilities
of its combined visual and auditory expression,
holds forth a magnificent promise toward recrea-
tion and education, which may in time far exceed
that which radio has so splendidly fulfilled.

As perhaps the first public recreation depart-
ment in the country to make use of television in
I . .
'1ts program of public contact, the Los Angeles
Department of Playground and Recreation has
already gained some valuable experience in this
field and has been able to gauge a little the new
.opportunity of expression which soon will be-
lcome more generally available.

Telecasts at present may be divided roughly
into two classes, the first consisting of the pre-
sentation of motion pictures, and the second of
so-called “live programs.” Both of these have
'been attempted in Los Angeles by the Recreation
} Department.

l In Los Angeles is situated one of the first tele-
"vision stations in the west, W6XAO, owned and
operated by Thomas S. Lee, who is also the owner

By SAMUEL L. FRIEDMAN

Director of Promotion
Playground and Recreation Department
Los AngelesI California

TelevisionIr infant prodigy of the com-
munication and entertainment world. is
just now growing out of its swaddling
getting ready to enter
our daily lives as a new and powerful
influence. What has this new develop-
ment to offer the field of recreation?

of the Don Lee Pacific Coast
Network of the Mutual
Broadcasting System. This
station has been sending out
telecasts regularly for a pe-
riod of nearly nine years and
during that time, through
constant research and experi-
mentation, has steadily im—
proved the quality of the
programs. Today this broad-
casting organization and sev-
eral others of like importance
across the country are at the dawn of a new stage
of widespread public appreciation and use.

The Los Angeles Recreation Department has
presented a number of its sound motion pictures
over Station W 6XAO. Of much greater interest,
however, in their potentialities for public recrea-
tion, are the experiments conducted with “live”

telecasts.

\.

“Live” Telecasts

One of the most successful of these was the
presentation of a simple little act in which the
marble-shooting champions of Los Angeles were
introduced and interviewed, and then requested
to put on an actual demonstration of the game.
The television camera was moved up for a close—
up while the boys “knuckled down” on the studio
rug and showed just how they played the game of
big-ring marbles. The audience was delighted and
so expressed itself in numerous telephone calls
and letters to the station.

Of even greater significance was another tele-
cast in which handicraft projects were physically
demonstrated. Three representatives of the Play-
ground and Recreation Department were intro-
duced to the television audience. After describing
briefly the scope of the arts and handicrafts
classes conducted at recreation centers, the par-
ticipants showed how to hammer and shape art
metal objects and how to make attractive objects
of pottery. Completed articles were presented to
the view of the camera and turned about for
inspection.

This program immediately suggests the rich
possibilities inherent in television as a medium

305

306 TELEVISION AS A NEW AID TO RECREATION

through which recreation activities may be taught
and demonstrated. Not only arts and handicrafts,
but also hobbies such as photography and stamp
collecting may be graphically and interestingly
brought to the attention of many individuals
through this medium.

Other phases in the varied program of recrea-
tion likewise offer themselves as excellent subjects
for television. Sports, for example, might easily
be televised in the form of demonstrations of
skills and techniques, the introduction of cham-
pions to explain and illustrate their methods of
handling tennis rackets, ball bats, basketballs or
golf clubs. Instruction in dancing, in dramatics,
pageantry, and numerous other activities also
could be effectively presented in this way.

Such demonstrations could be followed on the
“iconoscope,” or cathode-tube receiver screen, in
television sets in homes, or could serve groups
gathered for instruction around a receiving set
located in a recreation center club house.

In Los Angeles, recreational music groups as
material for television programs have already
been eXperimented with. A playground harmonica
band composed of boys and girls ranging in age
from ten to fourteen years was introduced in a
telecast and gave a creditable account, gaining
many new friends "

for the public recre-
ation program. a
' Nature study as a
hobby is another sub-
ject Which would
immediately suggest
itself for its telecast-
ing possibilities. Re-
cently, in a television
demonstration, mini—
ature aquaria were
described and the
talk was illustrated
by the use of a large
bowl of goldfish. The
subject brought an
immediate favorable
response from many
families, especially
those which had
young children.

The recreational
opportunities which
seem to be inherent
in television multiply

themselves endlessly. Many of the persons who
are beginning to install television receivers in
their homes are also photographic hobbyists and
make a practice of taking pictures of interesting
subjects which come through on their receiver
screens. Recently a professor of anthropology
was giving a television lecture and using a skull
for a demonstration. He held it up before the
camera for a moment and then put it down. A
few instants later eight telephone requests came
in to the studio from members. of the audience
asking the professor to hold the skull up again.
They were camera hobbyists and they wished to
obtain photographs of it while it was on the
screen. I

Another phase of the fascinating television de-
ve10pment which may become of great interest to
playground and recreation workers is the exPeri-
mentation in the use of portable television equip-
ment. In Los Angeles, Station W6XAO has port-
able equipment which is carried about in a light
station wagon. This is available for transportation
to a playground where an interesting contest,

(Continued on page 334)

The television camera is shown trucking forward
for close-ups of an arts and crafts demonstration

 

Motion Pictures in Recreation Departments

I IN MAKING THIS STUDY of the Use of motion

pictures by recreation departments a brief
postcard questionnaire was sent out to various
recreation centers in the United States and Canada
to find answers to some of the following questions:

I. Does your department use 16mm. silent
or sound movies (or both) ?

2. Do you use movies for advertising the
work of the department; to entertain large
groups; or to instruct workers and mem-
bers in recreation skills?

3. Has your department made any of its own
movies? On what subjects; program ser—
vices of the department, special events
such as pageants, playground circuses,
winter sports, new facilities being de-
veloped, or what else?

. 4. What subjects do you think would be of
greatest interest to groups that you serve?
The questionnaire contained a number of sub-
jects under the classification of sports instruction
!ilms, craft and hobby instruction films, travel and
':ntertainment subjects.
A summary of the replies from more than fifty
'ecreation executives covering twenty different
.tates and two Canadian provinces gives the fol—

owing percentages of interest and use.

A. On the extent of use of motion pictures 

use
1. Using 35mm. sound movies in the De-

. partment program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2%
2. Using 16mm. sound movies . . . . . . . . . . ..46%
3. Using 16mm. silent movies . . . . . . . . . . . . .60%
4. Using both sound and silent movies.. . . . 6%

0 . o
’ B. Purposes for which mov1es are used

1. For advertising the recreation program. .40%
I 2. For entertainment of groups . . . . . . . . . ..70%
l 3. For instruction of workers in skills... . .32%

c. Departments who have tried producing their
own films . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..30%

(subjects mentioned as having been filmed
were May Day, hiking, playground activi-
ties, safety and health, model airplane clubs,
golf, winter sports, camping and general
record films of programs and services.)

’ A few leading subjects filmed were as follows:

1. Program services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28%

2. Construction of new facilities . . . . . . . . .. 6%

3. Playground circuses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..16%

4. Water pageant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..12%

5. \Vinter sports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..12%

6. Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8%

7. Other subjects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8%

On the general questions of what subjects rec-
‘ eation directors were interested in obtaining for
' se in their programs several classes of films were

A selective survey designed to discover
to what extent movies are being used by
recreation departments for entertainment'
publicity' or worker-training purposes in
programs throughout the country has re-
cently been-completed by National Film
Programs. lnc., a l6-millimeter'program ar-
ranging company in New York City. Some
new trends have been revealed which will
be of interest to executives and program
planners who are faced with the problem
of selecting effective film programs.

By CHARLES HOWARD CUNNINGHAM
New York City

found to be in great demand as the following
tabulation shows.

1). Sports films wanted Baggy"
to use film
on subject

1. Golf instruction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46%

2. Tennis instruction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..68%

3. Skiing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..34%

4. Backyard sports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..42%

5. canoeing and sailing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..22%

6. Archery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .54%

7. Football . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..23%

8. Basketball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..62%

This rather conclusively indicates that in the
opinion of the recreation directors there is a great
need for instruction films on tennis (68%) and
basketball (62%) techniques. Archery (54%),
and golf (46%), follow close behind as subjects
in which motion picture instruction will be widely
used when available. A film to show elementary
skills in backyard or small area sports such as
badminton, paddle tennis, ring tennis, horseshoes,
etc., would also be in demand by at least 42% of
the reported departments. ‘

In the realm of handicrafts and hobbies there
was the greatest demand for a film on leather-
craft, on woodworking, and on model airplane

construction.

E. Handicrafts and hobbies 12333;?
reporting
need for

films
1. Leather tooling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..520/0

2. Model planes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..50%

3. \Voodworking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .48%

4. Beadcraft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40%

5. Pottery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..38%

6. Metalcraft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..36%

7. Ropecraft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34%

307

303 MOTION PICTURES IN RECREATION DEPARTMENTS

One can readily suppose that a craft-teaching
film might be an invaluable supplement to any
printed instruction whenever one faces the prob-
lem of an enthusiastic group interest in a. craft or
sport activity and only a moderately skilled lead-
ership for it.

On the question of desire for more films on
travel theldirectors indicated a decided interest in
several of the subjects mentioned. Among these
topics the idea of having a recreation newsreel to
show seasonal activities being carried on in vari-
ous parts of the country, or in various countries
was received with greatest enthusiasm.

1". Travel and other entertainment subjects
wanted (some of the prominent subjects

mentioned) : percentage
of director:
indicating
preference
1. Youth Hostel film . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..32%

2. Ocean cruises . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..16%

3. National parks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..30%

4. Recreation newsreel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..66%

5. Comedies and cartoons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..44%

6. Bicycle trips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..38%

7. Canoe trips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..22%

What, if anything, do these few figures indicate?

Certainly the power of the motion picture to tell
the recreation story is well recognized by execu-
tives around the country. It seems evident that
the demand is so great that some departments on
finding that the films they want are not available,
have tried their hand at producing these films for
themselves. Whether such films turn out to be of
more than local interest and higher than amateur
standard in quality depends a great deal on how
much careful planning is done before the “shoot-
ing” is commenced. If the Department is lucky
enough to secure the services of a serious and
advanced amateur movie club, or of an individual
amateur of long experience and high cinema-
tographic standards some excellent work can be
done. The finest results are obtainable, however,
when there is the right‘ combination of careful
advance planning of the movie script, wise selec-
tion of actors and action, patient and plentiful re-
hearsals, and professional assistance on the tech-
nical details of lighting, shooting, editing, titling,
and interpreting the story.

The results of the survey indicate that a great
variety of movie films are much in demand by
recreation departments. Herc exists an oppor-
tunity for someone to make a real contribution
to the as yet little developed field of ,visual educa-
tion in recreation. One can select a project that
offers a unique opportunity for filming in a given

published by the Educational Screen, 64 East
Lake Street, Chicago. Price 75 cents. This con:
tains lists of films classified under various subjects
and giving information regarding each.

locality; get the local movie club interested (or
use the idea as a reason for forming a movie
club), write a carefully planned, documented and
detailed script before exposing any films; then at-
tempt to capture for a recreation hungry public
the exact style and technique of the local archery
champion, the expert amateur metal craftsman or
of any other recreationally interesting skill, novel
sport, or unusual pastime that presents a chance
to be filmed. If the film turns out to be really
instructional, as well as colorful and entertaining
and if it is carefully edited to a pace that tells the
story without either dragging or jerking, then
there is a proven demand for it by recreation
audiences from Maine to California and fromi
Florida to Vancouver. "

It is only a matter of time before recreation-
movie exchanges will be set up and a contribu—,
tion to the recreation movie library on the;
methods of building ship models for iinstance,‘
may entitle a recreation department to draw on a
host of other recreational film topics from skiing:
to sketching. When such helps become available:
the problem of how to interest the public in new]
recreation opportunities, sports, skills, crafts and
hobbies will be greatly simplified. Let the public
see it in the movies. A brief action—illustrated}
movielogue on the means and methods of turn-‘I
ing your backyard into a badminton comt will}
arouse plenty of interest. The easy grace of the -
strokes explained and illustrated by champions,
the fun of it for champion and dub alike, can all}:
be captured on film and used to arouse the en-|
thusiasm of the vast uninitiated majority of our i
recreation public. I

 
  
 
 
  
   

Readers of RECREATION will be interested in
knowing that there is now available a pamphlet
entitled Motion Pictures in Sports which contains ,
a bibliography and a film list, as well as a directory!
of commercial and educational film services. This
may be secured at a nominal price from the Na-5
tional Section on \Vomen’s Athletics of the'.
American Association of Health, Physical Edu-i
cation and Recreation, 1201 Sixteenth Street,
N. W., Washington, D. C. Still another helpful
guide and source of information is “1000 and
One,” the Blue Book of Non-Theatrical Films

Our Rhythm Band

NE OF THE major prob-
O lems confronting every
conscientious play-
ground leader is that of pro-
viding material that is interest-
ing and worthwhile, which
does not overtax a budget that
is usually limited. A recreation
leader soon learns to be a jack-
of—all—trades. As more activi-
ties are offered, more children
will be interested, and as the
playground attendance in-
creases, one’s opportunity for
good influence also increases.
The idea of a rhythm band had been smoldering
in the back of our minds for several years, but
there seemed to be several serious objections to it.
First of all, we did not have a broad knowledge
of music. A piano was not part of our equipment.
Second, we were working on a limited budget,
and, although the price of the instruments is not
high, we did not feel that it could be added to the
other necessary expenditures. In spite of this, we
organized a rhythm band in the summer of 1938.
It was a good one, and the children loved it.

The first step was obtaining a victrola. We
were particularly lucky in securing the use of one
owned by a professional dancing teacher who gave
lessons in the recreation room. However, many
people own antique-looking victrolas which are in
surprisingly good repair, and they would be glad
to give or lend them for a worthy cause if the
need were known.

The selection of music is one of the first con-
siderations. The melody must have a definite ac-
cent if the children are to keep time to it without
confusion. However, they will soon learn that
there is a great deal more required than just
“keeping time.” They must interpret the mood
and character of the music also, so it is important
for the selection to have several (but not too
many) moods. This will train the children to use
discrimination in the selection of the various in—
struments which will express the desired results.
Many Victor records lend themselves particularly
well to this type of music, and the study of any
Victor catalog should be an aid in making a wise
choice. We used:

By MARY STATLER KOONTZ
Formerly Assistant Director
Somerset Community Playground
Somerset. Pennsylvania

"My purpose in recording our exper-
iences." writes Mrs. KoontzI "is to
encourage others to organize a rhythm
bandon playgrounds or in camps. It
will take a reasonable amount of in-
genuity and a lot of hard workI but
the happiness the children will de-
rive from it will be more than worth
every ounce of energy put into it."

Amaryllis by Ghys (Victor Con-
cert Orchestra). . . . .No. 20169B

Parade of the Wooden Soldiers by
Leon Jessel (Paul Whiteman
and his Orchestra) No. 21304A

Stars and Stripes Forever by John
Philip Sousa (Philadelphia Or-
chestra) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .No. 1441

National Emblem by E. E. Bagley
(Arthur Pryor’s Band) N 0. 19842

Amaryllis is especially well
adapted for this kind of work.
Marches are good to develop a
feeling for rhythm, but usually
they do not express more than
one mood—a criticism which
may make something else more desirable, for part
of the work at least. Remember the opportunity
you have to secure records from music clubs as
well as from individuals. Let your needs be known
through the playground grapevine system or the
daily paper, and you will probably have enough
records to keep you busy for years. You need
only use those which are best.

The construction of the instruments was the
most difficult task, but I must hasten to add that
it was also the most interesting. We encouraged
original suggestions for instruments as well as for
their decoration. Whenever possible, we urged the
children to use their own ideas. The president of
a local lumber company donated the wood we
needed, allowing us to select the various sizes and
shapes that would be most useful. Credit must be
given to two members of the Playground Com-
mittee who made the stand for the chimes and
attached the handles to the wood blocks and cym—
bals. In carrying through a project such as this,
don’t fail to enlist all the help you can get. Your
energies can then be turned to something that
would otherwise remain undone.

A complete description of the instruments we
made and used will be found at the end of this
article. Most of them were made in the handcraft
classes, and we found they did not cost any more
than the regular projects. One week we made
tambourines. They were quite popular and almost
every child made one of them. The following
week we made drums and horns and painted bot-
tles of various sizes and shapes. Another week
we made sand blocks, wood blocks, rhythm sticks,

309

310

and a peculiar looking, original arrangement which
became known as chimes.

The Band in Action

By this time almost every child had made a com—
plete band of his own. Many of the children told me
they practiced at home to the radio or victrola,
and some just sang their accompaniment. We
were afraid some of the parents would wish the
instruments and the originators of the idea in
Timbuctoo, and so we were agreeably surprised
when many of the parents spoke favorably to us
about it. Several of them had discovered latent
musical ability in their children. Many of them
had begun to talk about music and musical instru—
ments, which fact, in itself, was a step nearer the
goal. All of them were definitely interested, which
is probably the secret of the success of the
enterprise.

Two complete sets of instruments were kept at
the playground. One was used for our daily prac-
tices, and one was kept for display purposes and
public appearances.

With the preliminary work completed, a definite
hour was set aside for practice—eleven to twelve
o’clock each mOrning. Again we made use of the
properties at hand. Two low benches about eigh-
teen feet long, which were the benches to the
handcraft tables, were placed in a V shape. On
one bench were the tambourines, wood blocks,
sand blocks, bottles, a drum, and a bell. On the
other bench were chimes, wood blocks, cymbals,
horns and a drum. Another low bench about four
feet long was placed near the front of the V and
held three pairs of rhythm sticks.

At the appointed hour, a roomful of children
ranging in age from four to fourteen assembled.
The younger children could handle the rhythm
sticks, sand blocks, wood blocks, cymbals, and
tambourines quite well. The other instruments
such as the drums, chimes, bottles, and horns were
handled more efficiently by the older children.
However, they took turns using the various in-
struments, and each child who came to practice
was given an opportunity to play at some time
during the hour. We avoided assigning children
to play definite instruments, fearing it would dis-
courage others from trying them.

It soon became evident that most of the chil-
dren had selected some particular instrument as
their favorite and that they could handle it better
than the others. Consequently, about a week be-
fore a public appearance, we held a “try out” and

l

OUR RHYTHM BAND

chose the individuals to comprise “The Play-
ground Band.” This method was repeated before
each performance, so that each child felt that he
had a chance and that there would be no partiality.

There is no need to go into detail with the
progress or with the mistakes we made, except to
say that we never had a practice without an eager
waiting list.

We tried to allow the children as much freedom
as possible in developing their own orchestrations.
Every child has a natural creative instinct, and it
is a fascinating occupation to watch him develop it.

At first we directed the work, but we kept on
the lookout for a child to take it over. We re-
minded ourselves that the same qualities that make
a good drum major would also make a good band
leader. We found one in the person of a talented
little girl who had a splendid sense of rhythm
and was at the same time graceful, gracious, and
capable of making a good impression wherever
she went. A few simple rules on how to hold her
baton and the standardized motions to beat time——
three-fourths, four-fourths, and six-eighths—
were all she needed to give her activities a .profes-‘
sional touch. She soon learned to motion to vari—
ous instruments to begin to play or to stop play-
ing, just as she learned to signal for softer or
louder playing. All these little motions helped the
slower members to follow more easily, and they
also made a splendid appearance during a public
performance.

Things to Avoid

There are a few things to avoid, however, in
establishing a rhythm band:
I. Don’t scold if the children make mistakes.

Playground attendance is not compulsory, you
know, and it is your job to keep the children

happy above everything else.

2. Avoid competition. Music is an individual
pleasure, and enjoyment of music does not
always increase in proportion to one’s ability
to excel in it.

3. Avoid monotony, repetition, and carelessness.
What is worth doing at all is worth doing well.

4. Be careful that in enthusiasm or anxiety for

perfect response the lesson does not become
tiresome. Continue practice only as long as the
children enjoy participating in the lesson.
Music appreciation is to be desired above skill,
but an improvement in attitude will surely be
followed by an improvement in skill.

t

OUR RHYTHM BAND

More than anything else, the organization of a
rhythm band should develop an atmosphere of
happiness. It is an outlet for self-expression which
is always a pleasant and worthwhile experience.
The children will learn a technique in handling
the instruments which will make them more sen—
sitive to the beauty in and the appreciation of
good music. Music can do much to develop group
spirit and cooperation, and a good rhythm band
is a subject for playground and community pride.

Description of Instruments

we selected the color scheme of red and blue
for all the instruments. This combination was
very attractive, as the children all wore white for
public appearances. An added advantage was that
we were able to buy paint and other supplies in
large quantities.

Tambourines
Materials. One paper plate with lip; 12 metal
roof caps; 6 pieces of wire three inches long.
Directions. Paint entire plate with two coats of
paint. Enlarge holes in metal caps. With pliers,
twist head on one end of wire. Thread the wire
through two roof caps and the plate, and twist the

. other end. At least one inch of play on wire

should be allowed.
Cymbals

Materials. Lids from tin cans such as coffee or
shortening cans; 3—inch pieces of broom handle;
nails.

Directions. Fasten handle to tin can lid. Paint
and trim.

Wood Blocks

Materials. Finished lumber, 4 x 6 inches; handle,
size 1% x6 inches; nails.

Directions. Take the blocks, some pieces I inch

 thick and others 2 and 3 inches thick, and fasten

a handle on each. Paint and trim.

Sand Blocks
Materials. Same as for wood blocks.

ll Directions. Cover the bottom and 'sides of the

lblocks with coarse sand paper. Fasten the sand
[paper to the blocks by means of thumb tacks with
tcolored heads. We used blue.

Rhythm Sticks and Leader's Baton
I Materials. Half inch oak rounds.
I Directions. Cut the oak rounds to the desired
Hength. We used pieces 14
linehes long for the rhythm
.sticks and 20 inches long for
'Ithe baton. Rhythm sticks can

. l

"The man who disparages music as a
luxury and non-essential is doing. the
nation an iniury."-—-Thomas A. Edison.

311

be left unpainted, as they chip easily when in use.
Paint baton as desired.

Bottles (to resemble a xylophone)
Materials. Four bottles of approximate same
SIZE.
Directions. Paint two bottles red and the other
two blue. Put various amounts of water in the
bottles and strike them with a rhythm stick.

Horns

Materials. Cardboard tubes; crepe paper; paste
and scissors.

Directions. Take the cardboard tubes, which
may be the centers from paper towels, waxed
paper, or oilcloth. (\Ve used the latter which can
be obtained easily from local merchants.) Cut the
tubes to the desired length. Cut strips of two
colors of crepe paper and twist them around the
tubes so that the linished article resembles a
barber pole. Short streamers of crepe paper may
be fastened at one end. The horns may be
equipped with bird whistles.

Drums

Materials for Type A drums include round
paper cartons, such as salt or oatmeal boxes; wall
paper, preferably a ceiling paper; construction
paper; paste; 2 lead pencils to be used as drum
sticks.

Directions. Cover sides of box with the wall
paper. Cut designs as desired from construction
paper and trim it. Strike the drum with the
eraser end of the lead pencil drum stick.

Materials for Type B drums call for a metal
can such as coffee, shortening, or oil can; one-half
inch oak round.

Directions. Paint and trim as desired. It the
drum has a harsh sound, place a piece of old in—
nertube in it. Use the oak round as drumsticks.

Materials for Type C drums include earthen-
ware crocks, bowls, or dishes; a wooden chopping
bowl.

Directions. The earthenware may be used as is.
Turn the wooden chopping bowl upside down, or
cover it with oiled paper or innertube. Several
additionsof Type C will give a variety of sound
effects. One good drummer can operate several of
these instruments.

Chimes
Materials. Six spikes of different sizes; 12-
inch ruler; adhesive tape;
wood and nails for stand.
Directions. Drill six holes

(Continued on page 332)

"Public Opinion"

have had surveys on fa-

cilities, need for planning,
what children want, adult
participation, and similar sub-
jects. I do not recall having seen the results of a
“public opinion survey” taken of citizens who
have invested, through contributions, funds to-
ward a recreation program.

In preparing our annual appeal for member-
ships we tried to “sense” how people are feeling
these days toward supporting quasi-public or pri-
vate services in a community. Our soundings as-
sured us that there is a resentment toward “high
pressure” methods-“being forced to make con-
tributions. That attitude has developed so strongly
that it has caused many former “charity-minded”
citizens to become indifferent, resulting in elimina—
tion of all gifts for such purposes. But, “sharing”
takes the curse off “force,” and the idea of “al-
ternatives” brings a cooperative response. On this
assumption, a folder was prepared, the foremat
being a two-colored sketch of a playground in
action. In the foreground in a very prominent
position is a playground slide on the steps of
which are printed the following: self-control,
kindness, tolerance, honesty, courage, industry,
sportsmanship. Leading up to the slide. were
“step stones” with each stone carrying one of the
following activities: folk dancing, sports, sand
play, storytelling, festivals, gardens, games, crafts,
music. In one corner is the caption “What’s Your
Choice?” On the first inside page the reader dis-
covers:

“Hundreds of small children in slum neighbor-
hoods will be vitally affected by the activities of—
fered them on the Tot Lot Playgrounds this
spring and summer. I

“In the drawing, the stones represent activities
on the playgrounds and the
steps represent character in—
fluences that are obtainable
through these activities.

“Will you indicate what
activities and character influ-
ences you would like stressed
on the playgrounds by plac-
ing a \/ opposite the stones
and steps?

312

I N THE RECREATION field we

89 C. H. ENGLISH

Executive Secretary
Playground and Recreation Association

PhiladelphiaI Pa.

" 'Surveys to the left of usI surveys to
the right of usI surveys in front of us.
surveys in back of usI volleyed and thun-
dered.’ Thousands of surveys have been
made in the past decade. but in more re-
cent years a new kind has 'Gallup-ed' into
town—public opinion surveys. This is not
a Gallup reportI but it is iust as im-
portant to us. and perhaps as accurate!"

“The Program Committee
is now at work in developing
the playground program.
They will be glad to have
you share in their planning
by returning this folder with your suggestions as
soon as possible.”

The number of checked returns on this bid to
share in our program, while not as great as hoped
for, was of sufficient number to give us a guide to
their preferences. In a sense, we have a “man-
date” from our contributors who supply the funds
for operation. The rating is as follows:

1 st Honesty 1 st Crafts

2nd Self-control 2nd Gardens
3rd Kindness 3rd Sports

4th Industry 4th Games

5th Courage 5th Music

6th Tolerance 6th Storytelling

7th Sportsmanship 7th Sand play
8th Folk Dancing
9th Festivals

Without doubt, the factor in preference of ac-
tivities would be variable for each community
thus canvassed. The importance of gardening in
Philadelphia is responsible for the high place that
gardens have in this rating. Perhaps the low
rating given to festivals is due to a lack of under-
standing of its importance in a playground program.

In any event, the “public opinion” of our mem-
bership has given us several important ideas:

I. It furnished our staff of workers seven sub—
jects on character values to be used in talks
at playground assemblies.

2. It gave the executive seven subjects for the
staff training institute to call their attention ‘
to their own behavior as well as stress such 1
values with their playground participants.

3. It gave us a guide on the type of program
we might emphasize.

4. Should these choices of
activities represent a gen-
eral public preference, it
would be valuable to the
press as an indication of
reader interest.

The returns from our ap-
peal were satisfactory. This I
in spite of decline generally

(Continued on page 336)

Camping for Mothers

RACE—“Doctor must I have
 this operation?”
DOCTOR—“I’m afraid
there is no escaping it.”

GRACE (after a pause)—“’Would it prevent me

from going to camp the last week in June?”

DOCTOR—~“NO, I don’t think so, if you don't do
anything too strenuous.”

GRACE—“All right then. Let’s get through
, with it.”

This actual conversation gives an idea of what
‘the three day camping trip means to some 120
lyoung women of Lansing, from twenty to sixty
y years of age!

' On Sunday afternoon, June 23rd, cars will come
irolling in to Camp Kiroliex, the Boy Scout Camp
iforty miles away, which is generously turned over
fto the women for those few days. This will be
:1 the fourth consecutive summer for this excursion.
(‘The thrill of seeing the lake again, the trees, the
'hills, the dining hall and the cabins, brings a light
.10 the faces that is a joy to behold. And how the
old-timers love to show the beauty spots to the
Ifirst-Comers! “There it is!” “Did you see that?”
'“Isn’t this glorious?” “Hello! Hill-toppers!” “Hi
lthere, Sue!” “Oh, let me show you!”

By 6 P. M. everyone is comfortably settled, some
have even had a swim, and husbands and children
who may have brought mother have reluctantly
treturned. Mother is wondering whether she did
.the right thing in leaving her family. This is all
+so strange and different, and will Aunt Mary
*. remember to give Shirley Jean her cough syrup
' and have her say her prayers?

There! A gong! What does that mean? Why
Ilsupper, of course! From all directions they come
‘_in all sorts of togs, heading straight for the din-
!ing room. “Did you smell that?” “Am'I hungry?”
.l“Yes, sit at any place you please, but first let’s
I' join in these two lines of a
lsimple grace of thanks.”
'Isn’t it surprising how sud—
u denly the chatter and laugh-

ter ceases, but not for long.
\Ve are ready for food and
lhere it is! No hesitation
now. There! that’s better!
Maybe things are going to

during the winter.

By MRS. H. R. HARVEY

Recreation Director
Lansing, Michigan

The Lansing. Michigan. Board of Park Com-

missioners has organized a number of rec-
reation clubs for women which meet weekly
In March these clubs
give a Minstrel Showl using the proceeds
for a summer camping trip. In this way
practically all of the members have their
expenses paid. and at the same time they
have the fun of putting on the show.

to be all right, and there is no
need to worry.

Tonight being Sunday, let’s
have a camp fire down by the
lake and think things over. By dusk everyone is
seated and we quietly think of the meaning of a
few of the wonderful verses of the Bible. The
sun setting on the lake and the gradual softening
of light, the gentle breeze, the fluttering of the
leaves and the smell of the pines, the peace and
quietness of the place, the shadows on the hills,
the sound of the lapping water, the beautiful tire,
and the nearness of new and old friends—all of
these sink into our souls. Mother decides that she
is especially privileged in being able to come; that
she will trust in a High Power to look after the
family at home, and she knows He will, and she
will make the most of these three days so that
she will return with new strength and faith and
inspiration. Then we sing hymns and favorite old
time songs mostly. Anyone starts any song she
wants to sing. Sometimes it’s more fun to listen
than to sing.

At 10 o’clock each one goes to her new cabin
home. Shouts and laughter are heard here and
there. “Who did that?” “Where are my py-
jamas P” But before long camp is quiet and we
settle down to a fair night’s sleep, knowing full
well that we had better make the most of this

opportunity.

“It poured and poured the whole night through
And all of us wondered just what we’d do

But the sun came out at the break of day W

And sent us merrily on our way.”
Monday morning found the camp well washed
by a rain which had brought out the many beau-
tiful shades of green. “A few of us took early

morning dips, but most of us felt damp enough.

However, when we met for the flag raising and
breakfast, the sun had dried

everything off.” Thus wrote
our editor Cecil in the News
Letter.

\Vhat a breakfast! Food
never tastes half so well
after one prepares it. To
sit down to the table and
not even know what is to

313

314 CALMPING FOR MOTHERS

be set before one, that’s the life! Said Alma, “For
fifteen years I have prepared three meals a day.
This seems too good to be true.”

/

Swimming periods are at 10:30 A. M. and 4
P. M. with an informal water carnival the second
afternoon. This is a demonstration of fun and
hilarity rather than skill. Many mothers, how-
ever, learn to swim a few strokes while at camp
and what a satisfaction that is! Thelma is a

splendid instructor.

Schedules are announced for boating, softball,
volleyball, hiking and handcraft. Some women
enjoy the more strenuous activities and others
spend hours making corallin rings, belt buckles,
leather belts or bracelets. Bertha teaches the

crafts and is she good.

The rest period at noon is usually spent in plan-
ning the stunts for the evening. The first evening
Cassie, as Major Bowes, presented a program
~ that was broadcast. over station C.A.M.P. Stunts
included Ferdinand the Bull, a small circus, kid-
dies choir, Seven Wonders of the World, Madam
Cox and her pupils of the “Dawnce,” nature
study, a fan dance, a skit entitled “The Duke,"
“Roses of Picardy,” Wild West songs, “The Kid
in the Three—Cornered Pants,” and “There ain't
no Hubbies with us.” By that time letters and
telegrams had begun to come in. Three of these
were read, one from the Mayor of Lansing, one
from Mr. Bancroft, Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation, and one from Mr. C. E. Neitz, the
boy scout executive. This brought a fine program
and a wonderful evening to a close, and you
might think that a hundred and twenty women
would have had enough and be ready to sleep.
But you don’t know these women! Stories, jokes
and tricks kept things lively most of the night.
Why waste time in unconsciousness? And if Betty
and Bob did these things when they went to camp,
mother must also experience them.

However, the next morning found everyone
happy and full of pep. Again scheduled activities
filled the day. Minnie conducted a scavenger hunt
immediately after dinner. The articles called for
were: an oak leaf the size of a squirrel’s ear; one
night crawler or two angle worms; some of Iffy’s
whiskers; one frog; a Trylon and Perisphere; a
long-sleeved night gown; a page from nature; a
juicy fruit gum wrapper; a pine cone; one straw
ten inches long; one pair of orchid bloomers; a
lady bug; a cricket; a cat-tail; one live fish—
not gold.

“Two groups tied for first place and both had
the bright idea of dying bloomers with crushed
mulberries. Popcorn and peanuts were then served
and circle two-steps and square dancing were
enjoyed.”

The nurse, Emma, thought she was having an
easy time with only a few sunburns and one slight
sprain, but calls at 2 A. M. kept her quite busy.
Nothing serious.

The last morning dawns and a rather tired
crowd comes up to breakfast. But there are still
a few more hours to make the most of and a
Mother Goose party is planned. “Where did they
find SUch costumes?” “Isn’t that clever?” Mary
and her lamb are again made immortal. Final
games, swims and hikes are crowded in before the
packing begins. Cars arrive! Mother and her
blankets are tucked in and with pangs of regret
at leaving and one last look at that beautiful lake,
mother turns to her family again.

Is that the end? Oh, my, no, it’s just the be—
ginning! There is so much to be told! Mother
has had such a grand time and living out of
doors and making new friends have given her
such a new slant on living that she deter-
mines to make a special effort to enable Junior to
go to camp. What matter if father does drop
ashes here and there or throw the newspaper
around, he really is quite all right. The washing
isn’t half so hard to do, and wouldn’t‘it be fun
to try that new salad that we had in camp? I
believe John would like it. Wasn’t Rose funny
when she fell in' the lake? Oh, and do you remem—
ber that sunset?

—

 

“The need in 'women’s camps,” a recreation
worker of long experience has said, “is for a type
of recreation which contains a large amount of I
the real ‘fun’ element, and a well-worked out pro- I
gram of cardinal activities.” A program of camp ‘
activities should accordingly include active group
and team games as well as quiet games; activities
for picnics and outings; camp fire programs;
handcraft instruction which will aid in home beau-
tification; much folk dancing; children’s singing;
circle and group games; storytelling; music ap-.
preciation; simple dramatics and stunts for fun;
simple instruction in song leading with emphasis
on rounds, fun' songs and part songs; nature'
games leading to the observation of outdoor life;
introduction to hobbies; informal talks on read-
ing as recreation, and swimming instruction.

Lawn

' Bowling

A game played
centuries ago
by the kings
of England is
rapidly growing
I in popularity in
its new setting

, HE GAME OF BOWLS, more popularly known as
lTlawn bowling or bowling on the green, and,
next to archery, believed to be the oldest com-
)etitive sport in the British Empire, is fast becom—
mg one of the leading sports in the United States.
[he American Lawn Bowling Association was
;ldn1itted in 1938 to the International Bowling
Board which is now comprised of nine English
speaking countries. ‘
* Public bowling greens are said to have been hrst
.:stablished in London in I455. Considerable dis-
credit became attached to them because many were
located near taverns frequented by dissolute per-
Ions and gamesters. In fact, the taverns built
.nany greens, and games were played for money
lvhich was spent at the taverns. Accordingly the
lgame was looked upon with disfavor by all who
ywanted sport to be on a
I'ligh level, and repressive
lneasures were taken.

Bowling is an ancient sport. The first bowling
green of which we have authentic knowledge on the bowling greens

 

By CHARLES S. RETTIE

Secretary-Treasurer
American Lawn Bowling Association

often bet on his skill in playing. Charles I (1629—
49) was very enthusiastic over the game, but un-
fortunately he encouraged by his own example
betting and playing for high stakes. As a result,
gambling became a mania among poor and rich,
peasant and nobility. Fortunes were lost and won
on the game, and thus once more bowling on the
green fell into general disrepute throughout the
Empire.

Tradition has it that the nobility embraced the

game with such fervor that even queens became

Virtual bowling “widows”;
their husbands stayed out

Henry VIII, in 154I,
forbade the working peo-
,)le of his domain to play
'he game except at Christ-
nas time, and then only
.11 the presence of their
.nasters. He later prohib-
lted bowling greens except
{hose constructed for his

)wn pleasure at Whitehall
Palace, where he would

 

was constructed at Southampton. England.
near Land's EndI in I299. English nobility took
up the game in a rudimentary form. but it
soon became so popular that it was banned by
King and Parliament as a menace to archeryI
then so important in battle. At Plymouth Hoe.
near Land's End, Sir Francis Drake was playing
a game of bowls when the Spanish Armada was
sighted. and records have it that he insisted on
finishing the game before going out to con-
quer the toe. To this day the inhabitants take
great pride in pointing out the green on
which Sir Francis playedI which is still in use.

most of the day, and then
went home and boasted
about their scores at the
dinner table. But the
Scotch people came to the
rescue, taking up lawn
bowling in the summer
time as a substitute for
curling on the ice in win-
ter, and by the nineteenth
century they had so

315

316 LAIVN BOW/LING

changed the complexion of the
game and its standing that it
became a summer pastime of
men and women of culture
throughout the country. Re-
finements in the construction
of the bowls, as well as rules
of the game, were introduced.
Clubs and associations of clubs were formed, first
in Scotland and later in England and other coun-
tries, but chiefiy in the possessions of the British
Empire, until in more recent years the sport has
become truly international in scope, and wherever
played has maintained the high standards set by
the Scotch people.

History also has it that on occasion when John
Knox paid a visit to John Calvin he found him
at a game of bowls, and joined with him before

settling down to more weighty matters.

Lawn bowling spread with great popularity
after the game had been put on a higher plane,
and Scotland, England, Ireland and Wales, Can—
ada, New Zealand, South Africa, Austria, and
the United States now form the International
Board. Prior to the war teams from these coun-
tries visited each other and traveled many thou-

sands of miles to play match games.

Lawn Bowling in the United States

The history of lawn bowling in our own coun-
try for the most part covers recent times, although
as far back as 1615 the game was played in Mas-
sachusetts and Connecticut, and a bowling green
was built on the estate of George Washington at
Mount Vernon. In 1732, New York City fathers
leased to three citizens some land at the lower end
of Broadway fronting the fort. The name “Bowl-
ing Green” has persisted in the locality.‘

The game was little played after the Revolu-
tion for about a hundred years, but in the last
century interest has been revived as men going to
Scotland and England have seen it played and
participated in it. In Boston
a recognized tournament was
held in 1898, and about the
same time a group of clubs
was organized at the Golden
Gate Park in San Francisco.
The California Association
was formed in 1908, and
clubs were organized all along
the Pacific Coast.

During 1915 the American

In an article of this type it is not teasi-
ble to give the rules of bowling on
the green. These are readily obtain-

able trom the American Lawn Bowling
Association. 375 West Preston Street.

Hartford' Connecticut, or from any
of the clubs throughout the country.

Individuals who wish to see bowling on
the green played under ideal conditions
are urged to include a visit to Detroit
in their vacation itineraries. From Aug-
ust l2-l5 the tournament of the Eastern
Division of the A.L.B.A. will be held.
with approximately three hundred bowl-
ers in competition. Arrangements will
be made at the Detroit meeting to take
further steps to promote this fine old
game throughout the United States. ,

Lawn Bowling Association was
organized, and the first tour-
nament sponsored by that body
was played in Boston in Aug-
ust, 1918. Since then the game,"
has made remarkable progress,"
all cities of any size in New
England having one or more
bowling greens, and the future looks bright for.
the growth of the sport. Park departments of}
American cities consider a bowling green “a:
method of putting life into the locality without:
marring its beauty,” and private country clubs}:
too, are building greens for the same reason;
Under the American Lawn Bowling Associatiom
from 15,000 to 20,000 bowlers are enrolled, and)
inquiries are being received by the officials of the}
Association almost daily for information regard-J.
ing the specifications for building bowling greens;
Approximately twenty new greens are being con-,
structed at the present time. _ f

It is the firm conviction of ardent bowlers that,
if the public fully realizes the great value of lawn.
bowling as a medium of health and enjoyment,
every village and town, in addition to large cities,
would demand a bowling green. It is the only out-,5
(loor game that can be played by a boy of eighteen.
or a man of eighty with equal skill and interest;
There is no injurious physical strain. It is a man’s.
game without being a man-killing game, and those:
who play it believe it is the only game for the.
man over thirty-five.

The fascination of lawn bowling, the skill re-r
quired, the exercise afforded, can be learned only:
by actual participation. It is ideal recreation for
those who need outdoor exercise of a stimulating:‘
kind. It is a haven of refuge for those whoseq
physical condition forbids the strain of more vigil
orous sports. Country clubs are finding that the -
game makes it possible for them to keep theirl
members when they have reached the inevitable:
stage at which golf becomes too strenuous. They,"
will remain members to bowl
on the green. '

In private lawn bowling:
clubs, with their clubhouses
for social functions, lies the.
great future of the game. At;
such clubs the women become
as enthusiastic bowlers as the
men.

Originally the bowls, which
(Continued on page 332)

Kayak Sailing —— a Sport with Thrills!

By JAMES L. JACKSON

URING THE summer of 1939
>4 D while working at Camp

| Wooster, a large boys’ camp

1 in northern Illinois which had a
‘ renewal of its 315 campers every
two weeks, I built three sailing rigs, all of differ-
ent styles, and taught about twenty boys to sail in
the last few weeks of the summer. This activity
was in addition to the regular camp routine. Next

I summer the sport is to be taught as a regular

‘ class hobby and several new rigs are projected,
some to be constructed by the boys.

The idea of sailing was suggested by a dozen
light and fast canvas kayaks the camp owned. Ten
feet long, decked fore and aft, and having a beam

l of only twenty-eight inches, these one-man kayaks
:tended to skim the surface. The first sailboat
consisted of a kayak equipped with demountable
leeboards, a small rudder, and gaff-and-jib rigged
| sails. This was fairly fast and sailed close to the
wind but was apt to tip.

This tippiness led to the construction of de-

'mountablc pontoons for the second boat. The
pontoon-cans were made of soldered sheet-metal,
and the pontoon crossbar also supported the mast
and its lanteen sail of forty square feet. This
second boat did not sail as close to the wind be-
cause of inadequate keelage, but was much more
)exciting because of its greater power and speed.
This boat was capsize-proof, as was the third.
; The resistance of the first pontoons made it ad-
visable to attempt much greater streamlining on
ithe next set. The third boat had slender half-
l moon pontoons that acted as keels as well as sta-
’ bilizers and a tall cutter rig of sixty square feet.
l Despite the jib’s refusal to sheet tightly, the boat
lconstructed last was much faster than its prede-
’ cessors, attaining speeds of twelve miles an hour.
, From these types a better
I composite type can be_drawn
' which would probably be a
kayak with demountable
half-moon pontoons and a
lanteen rig, for these give a
I maximum of safety, speed,
i and maneuverability. The
pontoons are absolutely nec-
' essary if one is to take full

Assis’ram‘
Physical Educa’rion for Men
University of Illinois

Once a fairly expensive spori'. kayak sail-
ing can now be made an ac’rivify for summer
camps' schools. and recrea’rion areas near
bodies of wafer. and the fhrill of individ-
ual small boai' sailing can be broughf +0
boys as young as fifteen years of age. If
is +he aufhor's experience that +hese boafs
can be made safe while reraining all the
exci’remenf of sailing' and fha’r +hey can be
built for less +han twenty-five dollars.

advantage of windy days, and
they are an essential safety fac-
tor in teaching. The lanteen rig
can be large enough to give the
student considerable speed with-
out being too difficult for the student to handle.
And the lanteen, having jib and mainsail con-
trolled by a single line, gives the student sim-
plicity of control with a rig complex enough to
allow the fairly difficult action of jibbing off.

The usual difficulties of teaching were made
light by the desire of the students to handle a boat
themselves. It was found that the two-week
periods of camp were too short for satisfactory
teaching, but one boy who was allowed to extend
his stay for another two-week period attained con-
siderable proficiency. An instruction period of
from two to three hours was necessary to instill
the principles of sailing and the names and actions
of the parts of the boat. A test on this insured
the student’s attention. A definite knowledge of
the forces operating is necessary as these are
sometimes difficult to notice in such a small craft.
As quickly as possible the boys were allowed to
take out the lanteen-rigged kayak. They usually
went out before the wind, took a broad reach, and
came back on one or two tacks. Those who suc-
ceeded in returning under sail were given some
further instruction in navigation. On all trips the
instructor followed in a rowboat for safety and,
if necessary, to direct sailing.

It was gratifying to see the excitement that
shone in the faces of the boys who completed the
initial sail. Operating a new and extremely small
craft which gave the boys the impression of their
having surprising speed and power under their
control was a great adventure for them. Many
who learned were underprivileged boys from slum
areas of Chicago, and while
the contribution in poise and
self-confidence could not be
measured, it was obviously
present.

Simple safety measures
were taught and observed.
The boys were always fol-
lowed by the instructor’s
rowboat, and while this was

317

318

onerous it was certainly safe.
The pontoons practically pre-
:luded any possibility of tip-
oing. The boys were instruct-
:d to tread water if the pon-
toon crossbar should break
and the boat capsize, and to
hold on to the kayak, which
would support them until
help arrived. A balsa torpedo Hoat was carried in
the kayak and its use demonstrated. As some of
the boys who passed the test were not strong
swimmers, these precautions were necessary.
Actually, not a student capsized a boat, and the
instructor was unlucky only once, in the leeboard
kayak.

The question of expense of construction was,
of course, present. The kayaks were built a few
years ago from fifteen-dollar kits. The first two
rigs, of maple and sheet-metal, were inexpensive,
and even when cypress was used in the last rig
the expense was under ten dollars. For a while
sheets were used as sail material, and then un-
bleached muslin. The author had the enjoyable
experience of making his own rigs, devoting about
three days’ work to each. It is quite possible that
the students could learn some of the principles of
sailing by helping in this construction work. With
good care and paint-
ing the masts, booms,
stays, rudders, and
pontoons should last
four to six years, as
long as will the kay-
aks themselves. The
sails and running
lines must be reck-
oned expendable.

In the last few
weeks of camp we
learned how to make
a Genoa jib, and con-
structed one without
difficulty. This' jib
gave great power
rigged with the lee-
board gaff set. It was
involved to handle
but delightful in jib-
bing off. \Vhen the
wind was too strong
for the full rig, and
the leeboard craft

"The paddling and technique connected
with kayaking make excellent aquatic ac-
tivities which you can feel sate in pro-
moting. The construction, however. takes
close supervision and must be accu-
rately done. The expense is minor."—

C. P. L. Nicholls, Supervisor of Aqua-

tics, Los Angeles Recreation Department.

 

KAY/1K SAILING —-A SPORT [VITH THRILLS'.’

was in danger of capsizing in
the gusts, the mainsail could

alone.

No student stayed at camp
long enough to attain the skill
necessary to handle this rig,
but with additional time the
boys could have mastered it.

Some interesting information comes from Frank
M. Davenport, Supervisor of Aquatics, Long
Beach, California, Recreation Commission. '

About three years ago the Recreation Commis-.
sion of Long Beach, California, conducted an ex-
periment in kayak building to determine whether
or not this activity would adapt itself well to the
program. The experiment proved successful, and.
at some future time the activity will be made a
permanent part of the program.

The method followed during the experiment
was similar to that used in model boat building;
that is, the individual purchased materials and
supplies from the Commission at actual cost. The

Commission furnished plans, instruction, super- '

vision, and the shop.
(Continued on page 334)

1"
-
1

Courtesy Long Beach Recreation Commission

be lowered and the craft'
sailed and tacked on the jib"

   

5 HE OAKLAND W'omen’s Rowing Club, or»
Tganized by the Oakland Recreation De-
partment, is now entering the twenty-fifth

. year of its uninterrupted existence, with fifteen

got its charter members still enjoying many a

‘brisk row on Oakland’s beautiful Lake

l Merritt.

l This lake, with an area of 165 acres, bordered
by lovely Lakeside Park, has always been one

a of Oakland’s most attractive features. But as

ISO often happens, this unique beauty spot,

lideally situated within a ten-minutes’ walk
from the center of the business district, re—
ceived but little special recognition or acclaim.
It was not until 19I3 that two municipal boat
houses were built and placed under the spon-
sorship of the Department of Playground
and Recreation. Passenger launches, row
boats, canoes and a few sail boats were offered

I the public at a nominal rental charge. There
was an immediate hearty response to this “En-
joy your Lake” idea. Citizens of Oakland now
took great pride in the fact that very few
cities could boast of so vast a water play—

Iground in the very heart of things. The De-
partment of Playground and Recreation im—
mediately made plans to list rowing among its
major sports. Boats and instruction were of-
fered without charge in an effort to organ—
ize crews among playground groups, schools,
Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A., industrial and city

I employees.

. Crews of men and boys soon dotted the
Lake, but there was but little response from
women and girls. Any plan to organize sports
for them was quite revolutionary in 1914—15.
A few women, however, had displayed an ac-
tive interest in organized volleyball teams.

‘ These were appealed to to boost beautiful
Lake Merritt.

: O.W. R- C.

"O.W.R.C."——not the

name of a new radio
station, as the letters

might suggest. but the
"OaklandWomen'sRow-

ing Club." An honorary
member tells the story.

In 1916, after much persuasion and many
“try-outs,” about twenty of these women were
formally organized as the Oakland VVomen’s
Rowing Club, with a constitution, by-laws,
oar—drills, a nautical vocabulary plus a keen
enjoyment and appreciation of their weekly in-
struction from efficient coxswains, several of
whom came from the nearby Naval Training
Station, Yerba Buena Island.

Their record of achievement since that far—
off day is an interesting one. Not only did
their enthusiasm and skill make rowing pop-
ular, but they soon proved what an influence
an intelligently planned and well-governed
group of women can exert in the city’s gen-
eral welfare. There are many instances of
their civic-mindedness. One, which had a spe—
cial appeal for these Lake “enthusiasts,” was a
proposed “Necklace of Lights” to encircle, the
six-mile radius of Lake Merritt. When it was
learned that the plan could materialize only
through the willingness of local groups—-
Masons, Elks, Rotarians, and so on—to pur-
chase the necessary electroliers, the “O. \V. R.
C.” was among the first to step forward with
a check for the required amount. Another
movement to “popularize” the Lake was an
occasional elaborate Regatta. Here again the
O. W. R. C. scored. Not only did they c00per-
ate with the Department of Playground and
Recreation to awaken an interest in these af—
fairs, but expended such effort and expense
that the boats assigned to them set a standard
for decoration for years to come.

In 19I9, the Club’s endorsement of Oak-
land’s first great Community Christmas Page-
ant, and its participation in it, was one of the
potent factors in making this pageant one of
the city’s most beautiful traditions. In 1939,

(Continued on page 335)

319

San Antonio’s Puppet Theater

HE KEYNOTE to the
Tsuccess of any recrea-

tion program is the in—
telligent use of the ma-
terial at hand, whether
that material be personali-
ties or an abandoned
church. The entire pro—
gram of the City Recrea-
tion Department of San
Antonio illustrates this
point, but perhaps the Puppet Theater, an experi-
ment by the dramatics division, offers the best
example.

The object of the theater is to train playground
leaders in all phases of puppeteering, from the
making of the puppets to their manipulation. Each
member of the group takes his turn at stage man-
aging, holding the book, speaking lines, building
props and designing sets, so that all will be well—
rounded puppeteers when the program is com-
plete. But, human nature .being What it is, each
surpasses the other in some particular field. Con-
sequently they teach one another, learning while
they teach.

Old Church Becomes Theater

The location of the theater itself is an interest-
ing example of the intelligent use of the material
at hand. In La Villita—“The Little Village”—an
historic section of San Antonio which is under-
going restoration, stands a funny little old church
with a tremendously high roof and an almost
miniature auditorium. \Vhen the question came
up of where to establish a puppet theater, the
unused church seemed the logical answer. There
was something so appealing about the little build-
ing that even had funds been plentiful it would
have been a pity to renovate it too completely.
Playground leaders gave the plaster walls a good
scrubbing, treated the floor
of random-width planks to a
coat of crude oil, and re-
placed broken window panes.
They built a ship-lap parti~
tion to form a proscenium,
framing a regulation puppet
stage.

320

By PHYLLIS-ANNE STEINBERG

Through such experiments as the Puppet The-
aterI the Recreation Department of San An-
tonio has learned that it is not necessary
to wait for plentiful funds before starting
a recreation program. Imagination and crea-
tive ability can stretch a small budget to
amazing proportions. And a spark of enthusi-
asm within the Recreation Department itself
will spread through a city like wildfire.

Mrs. Steinberg has written many arti-
cles and stories colored by her travels
with her father. Colonel Arthur M. Shaw.
consulting engineer. whose profession
took him. and often his family. to many
interesting parts of the globe. She is now
making her home in San Antonio where
her husband is a practising physician.

Behind this proscenium
eight playground leaders
are receiving the training
which, in a short time, will
make them qualified pup-
pet experts. The City of
San Antonio employs four—
teen playground leaders,

mented by forty VVPA
workers, and these are the
leaders who are being trained in the puppet thea-
ter. Under the leadership of William P. Witt,
Superintendent of the City’s Recreation Depart-
ment, the VVPA workers and the city’s own em-
ployees work together most effectively. Mr. \Vitt
takes as lively an interest in the Puppet Theater
as he does in all the other activities of his.de-
partment.

The interest that Mayor Maury Maverick and
Commissioner Henry Hein show in recreation is
also a contributing factor to the success of the

but this group is supple- .

program. The puppeteers had a great deal of fun .

making a tiny caricature of the mayor, and he
himself had fun making a phonograph recording
for the puppet’s speech and watching himself ap—
pear in miniature on the stage.

If you step into the theater between perform-
ances your eyes and ears will be greeted by a
variety of sights and sounds. Perhaps a sewing
machine, a hammer and a saw will all be going at
the same time, while a phonograph gives forth a

series of bombardment effect for the next play,
“The Fall of the Alamo.” One youth may be

perched on top of a step—ladder, pasting cutout

cellophane designs on the windows, while a young
woman cuts out others and hands them up to him.

Window Decorations

The windows deserve a paragraph by them-
selves,as they have turned out
to be an interesting experi—

of gaining community inter—
est in recreation through lay
leadership.

(Continued on page 335)

ment in decoration, and as I
they illustrate the possibility .

Speakers at the Recreation Congress

Hon. HAROLD H. BURTON Hon. FIORELLO LA GUARDIA
Mayor of Cleveland Mayor of New York CH-y

G. OTT ROMNEY HENRY NOBLE MAC CRACKEN
Na+ional Direc’ror Recrea’rion Sec+ion. WPA President Vassar College

 

Boating

HE QUESTION of discipline in a
Tboating program is peculiar.

The wind is the boss. In par-
ticular, the storm or heavy wind, in anticipation
of which your entire instruction is directed, is the
ultimate boss. This means that the supervisors
speak with the authority of the wind. Navy dis-
cipline is no good, because the participants do not
remain under the eye or within the voice of the
man in charge. A sympathetic, reasonable approach
is no good, because the weather is unsympathetic,
vicious, and unreasonable. (If you relax on
shore, you are still there when you unrelax, but
if you relax in a sailboat, you are probably under
the surface when you come to.) The best approach,
thus to kindle in the new sailor the realization that
attention to uninteresting details and principles
means eventual safety and supremacy among the
elements, is that of the football coach. The boat
landing should always present the atmosphere of
a full-rigged ship in a gale with a bull-throated
mate in charge, ready to enforce his orders with
his fists. A reasonable approach can exist during
the period of actual instruction and explanation
of how to sail, and again after hours or away
from the landing. But not on the landing! (After
a year when older boys are developed, a system
of chiefs or chief petty officers among them can
be set Up, which greatly relieves the strain and
does away with the need of such an imperative
central authority.)

Type of Boat

The question of the type of boat wears itself
around inevitably to a single definite conclusion.
The boat must be small enough for a boy to sail
alone and to hold on to the sail in his hand alone
all afternoon without getting tired. A boat is im-
possible with a sail so large
that the sheet must be cleated
or passed through a pulley,
since it must be ready at all
times to be instantly let go the
by relaxing the grip. The oc-
cupant must sit on the bot-
tom or floor of the boat, as
it is a senseless flirting with
danger to have him sit up on

322

National

At the section meeting on Model Boat-
ing at the Boston Recreation CongressI
Joseph Lee. son of the late president of
Recreation Association.
offered some practical suggestions from
his experience in promoting boating on
the Charles River. Mr. Lee, a member
of the Boston School Committee. is do-
ing much to help provide boating and
swimming places for people of Boston.

By JOSEPH LEE “‘
Boston. Massachusetts

a seat or thwart. These require-
ments will give you a boat less than
a yard wide across the bottom and
of indeterminate length. For cheapness it will be
Hat-bottomed, with flat, flaring sides. The boat
should, of course, be lively, sensitive, and fun to
sail (and preferably good looking). It should
have a bamboo mast for cheapness’ sake. In any
worthwhile public boating program, with large

numbers involved, the boats should be such as '

can be stacked one on top of another on the land-
ing, so as to save space and center the program.
A boy can learn to sail only by being in a boat by
himself. Rowboats are not good to begin on, as
the wind does not exert sharp enough discipline
over a rowboat, and the boys will fool, learn lit-
tle or nothing, and usually lose interest.

Location

Without difficult and costly precautions it will
be unwise to have a sailing area in any place
where headland, cove, or other obstacles obstruct
the view of the complete area. An area of warm
water is extremely desirable, because of possible

capsizing. An exposed bay that lets out to the .

ocean is a tremendous difficulty (unless the wind
blows perpetually on-shore). With an exposed

bay, at least two motor boats would have to do .

patrol duty with at least six kayakson the deck
of each to be manned by older boys from aboard
the patrol boat, when arrival of a strong wind
necessitates deploying in different directions and
herding up a lot of boats at once.

Sailing Instruction
( I) If you upset, hang on to your boat.

(2) If the boat tips too much, let go of the rope I

in your hand by which you hold the sail.

(3) In turning around to
come back, always move
the stick (or tiller) in
your hand toward the
side which the sail is
held out on.

(4) Always let the sail swing
out as far as it wants to
over the side until you

(Continued on, page 334)

r
g:
j

t

 

STORY OF HOW a neighborhood of 773 fam-
A ilies made its own playground was re-

lated in an article published in the April
1939 issue of Recreation. The story told how
a group of socially—minded citizens got to—
gether, discussed the apparent need for a safe
play area, made a survey of the district, dis-
covering the fact that for the 1,455 children
the nearest playground was a mile away, se-
cured a 15,000 square foot lot of land, and
then, with fathers and their sons laboring with
pick and shovel, and with the City of Boston
contributing gravel and a steam roller, con—
structed a real playground.

This area has been used continually by the
entire neighborhood for softball, volleyball,
horseshoes, tether ball, field hockey and foot-
ball. In general, it has helped to care for the
play needs of about 160 little children daily
from early spring through the fall, with eigh-
teen Central Square Center leaders who live
in the neighborhood serving as supervisors.

Because of the success of this project the
neighborhood, and especially the twenty-eight
socially-minded citizens who had organized

' themselves into the Neighborhood Playground

Association, became more optimistic in re-

gard to their problems. There was a growing
realization that the pe0p1e themselves can

do much in working out local problems and

t t that they can secure the interest and coopera-

By LAWRENCE C. WOODBURY
Boys' Director
Central Square Center
East Boston Social Centers Council

tion of the City. This new confidence caused
the group to tackle another one of the exist-
ing vital problems.

At a meeting of the Association, discussion
centered around the unsanitary conditions of
many backyards and alleys. It was pointed
out that many families, lacking sufficient trash
and garbage cans, were throwing all their
waste out the back windows. Often trash was
put out for the collectors in cartons which
came apart on rainy or windy days, or they were
kicked apart by the children, with trash scat-
tered everywhere. The Association admitted
that the city was doing its part in the prob-
lems of sanitation but that the citizens were
at fault.

A Spring Clean-up Campaign was sug—
gested, and the idea was enthusiastically re—
ceived .by all. Details were outlined in a
series of meetings. The many children who
had been using the new playground, the Cen-
tral Square Center clubs, the neighborhood
parents, and the Boy Scouts sponsored by the
Association all came together for a mass meet-

(Contfmtcd on page 338)
323

What They Say About Recreation

11 ECREATION, in my opinion, is the remedy for
many human ills that prevail today. I do
not need to point out the important role

that recreation plays in the National Park pro-
gram. . . . Without detracting in the slightest from
the importance of any other factors, it may be
said that perhaps the greatest assets 'these parks
possess are the opportunities for recreation which
they afford to the millions of American citizens
who visit them each year.”——~Harold L. I ckes.

“No community should delude itself with the
happy thought that it may support a recreation
program as a substitute for an integrated program
of delinquency prevention and care. But certainly
there is a relationship between idle-time, misdi-
rected energy, vicious commercial recreation and
behaviour difficulties. A public and private recre-
ation program should, therefore, be operated as a
part of a community attack on delinquency.”—
Izme and Arthur Guild in Social Work En-

giaeering.

“In my opinion provision of proper playground
facilities for our young people is of the utmost
importance in building a crime—free America. I
know of no more responsible position than that of
supervisor of the activities engaged in by chil—
dren on these playgrounds. Leaders of the chil-
dren naturally exert a great infiuence over
them. Their words and actions will be imitated
and reflected upon. It is for this reason that I
urge these leaders to accept the responsibilities
placed upon them and exemplify at all times
sportsmanship and manliness.”—J. Edgar H oor/er.

“There can be no drudgery in creation. The
knowledge that one is of oneself creating some—
thing gives one the fine frenzy of the sculptor,
the painter, the illustrator, the architect and the
author, than which there is not greater joy for
child or man.”—Dam’el Carter Beard.

“Human beings require recreation, especially in
youth, to train both mind and body, to meet the
need for comradeship, and develop ability to co-
operate With others in work as well as play. To-
day provision for recreation should be recognized
as a public responsibility shared by private agen-
cies. Recreational facilities include parks and

324

playgrounds, libraries, athletic fields, museums,
camp sites, and trained supervision. A large ex-
tension of these facilities will in the long run
prove a profitable investment.”-——-From White
House Conference on Children in a Democracy.

“The expression of all races which is found in
the amalgam of things American refiects the
vitality of a new country whose folk lore of songs,
dances, drama, handcrafts, legends and supersti-
tions are still being made. The old and the new
have a place in the cultural, educational and rec-

reational life of today.”—Thad Thomas, National
Folk Festival.

“The promotion of leisure-time activity and the
development of recreational facilities have often
been justified on various grounds such as health,
prevention of crime, the keeping of mental bal—
ance in time of unemployment, Or as a counter-
balance to the force of routine employment. Even
if all of these justifications are legitimate, they are
nevertheless unnecessary. Well-rounded living
necessitates wholesome use of leisure. Recreation
is health, vigor, romance, and fullness of living.
and should be accepted as a necessity for living as
much as eating and sleeping.”—Bmce L. M elvin
in Y outh—~Millions Too Many?

“The great challenge to government today is
how to apply the discoveries of science to the art
of living.”—Fiorello La Guardia.

“Besides all the other values of the national .

forests there are human values. The tempo of our
daily lives has speeded up. Each year we exper-
ience less of natural physical activity and greater
mental strain. In bustling office or crowded street

we long for the friendly forest. Woodland recrea— 1
tion fills a definite need in our lives now, and we i

plan for it consciously.”—From Forest Outings,
edited by Russell Lord.

“The development of interest and of some de-

gree of proficiency in sports and activities of an*
individual nature which have lifelong possibilities:
for enjoyment and participation needs to be en—'
couraged in school programs.”—From The Balm
letin of the National Association of Secondary‘

School Principals, November, 1939.

l

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

OMB Dyeing with Natural Dyes is the title

of h'liscellaneous Publications 230, obtain-
able from the Superintendent of Documents,
\Vashington, D. C. Price five cents. The pamph-
let has reliable information for leaders who would
go prospecting for natural dyes. Harlow House,
Plymouth, Massachusetts, is teaching this art in
summer courses.

Sanctuary and Nature Trail S urvey. This sur—
vey, made in 1939 by the Conservation Commit-
tee of the Garden Club of America, 598 Madison
Avenue, New York City, is excellent if you need
something to convince board members of the need
for a native plant and song bird sanctuary, fern
garden, nature trail, or a special outdoor educa—
tional area.

S.O.S. for a Continent. A pictorial map to
show the reckless exploitation of North America

‘ and the upsetting of Nature’s balance. This map

may be secured for IO cents from the Natural
History Magazine, American Museum of Natural

History, New York City.

The Constitution of the Sheffield Associates,
Sheffield, Massachusetts, speciiically advocates the
preservation of the residential character of Shef-
field Village; the encouragement of gardening;
the beautifying of streams; and vigilant care in
preventing danger to the esthetic beauty of the
town.

Bibliography of Nature Study. This bibliogra~
phy of 45 pages edited by Eva L. Gordon may be
secured from the Com-

State College, is the ranger-naturalist in charge
of developing the new program.

The Bald Eagle, our national bird, will now be
protected by law. There was danger of extermi—
natlon until the bill providing for protection was

recently passed by the House and Senate. Where
is the nearest aerie to your locality?

The New Nature Story tl-[agaaine, a new nature
story magazine for children, has just appeared.
Thornton W'. Burgess is editor. The magazine
will appear monthly and will sell at IO cents a
copy. The first issue has twenty-four stories and
sixteen pages of “Mother Nature’s News.” Write
the Audubon Society, 66 Newbury Street, Boston.

Ivy Poisoning. A six page pamphlet on this
subject has been issued by the Division of Public

Health Education, State Department of Health,
Albany, New York.

Food and Health from wild greens or pot herbs
is a four page illustrated leaflet published by the
State Department of Health, Albany, New York.
You will find it helpful on a forage trip.

Flower Arranging. This 54—page multicolored
7% inch square booklet with photographs may be
secured for IO cents from the Coca Cola Com—
pany, Atlanta, Georgia.

Forest Fire Prevention Posters (14” by 19”)
may be secured from the United States Forest
Service, Washington, D. C.

Meal Worms for Fish Bait and 1;;00d for Birds.
Directions for rearing will be found in Leaflet

195, just issued by the

stock Publishing Company,
Ithaca, New York. Price
25 cents.

Pittsfield State Forest,
under the auspices of the

; Massachusetts Con serv a-
tion Commission, has in-
augurated a naturalist pro—

[ gram. Kenneth Howland,
Duxbury, Massachusetts, a
senior at Massachusetts

A MESSAGE FROM CAP'N BILL

"All progressive recreation leaders are con-
fronted with a difficult and important prob-
lem—how to keep abreast of the rapid strides
in nature recreation. Nature-grams will help
solve this problem. If each recreation leader
will describe his most successful nature proj-
ect on a postcard and send it to me at

Massachusetts State Collegel Amherst, he .will
serve a vital purpose in nature recreatlon.

Place a lnature-gram' on your Imustl list. For

every nature-gram cast on the water you Will
0 0 II

receive a hundred In reply from thls column.

United States Department
of Agriculture.

Nature Recreation
Stories Wanted. V. K.
Brown, Director of Rec-
reation, Chicago Park Dis-
trict, has had mimeograph-
ed a bulletin of six pages
which lists publications
that would welcome stories
about nature recreation.

325

326

Nature-grams would be ab—
stracts of these stories.

National Grandmother’s
Day was held at the Grand-
mother’s Garden, Westlield,
Massachusetts, June 19, 1940.
The program was given en—
tirely by talented grand—
mothers.

Laurel Vespers were held
June 23, 1940 on Phelon Hill, Granville, Massa-
chusetts. Choral singing, community singing, and
an address by an outstanding speaker were some
of the features of the service held in the beauti-
ful naturaliamphitheater.

“Laurel Way” is the name for Route 20, or the
Mohawk Trail along the Westfield River through
the Berkshires. The Massachusetts Department
of Public Works plants 5,000 laurel shrubs on this
route each year.

The Old World Chateau and the N orthjield Inn
at East Northfield, Massachusetts, in the Con-
necticut Valley have a permanent nature guide.
This service to guests is considered as important
as golf. The guests are taken on nature hikes,
may listen to nature talks in the lobby, and may
have self-guiding nature trails. Robert Cole is
resident naturalist.

American Forests, July 1940, says: “Some-
times beside the trail there is a birch with a dark
band showing where some traveler had stripped
off white outer bark. The one who did this is a
lover of the wilds—not because he wanted the
bark, but because he came here. Yet all hikers of
this wilderness path from now on must see the
ugly mutilation he has caused in the otherwise
perfect forest. Could he not have enjoyed the
beauty of his surroundings and left the forest as
others have left it for him?”

Traditional American Rights *.
“To ‘drop upon the pastures of the wilderness,
to shout for joy, also to sing,’ as did the Psalmist.

“To live as did Sam Walter Foss in a ‘house by
the side of the road and be a friend of man.’

“To rise and follow when the gypsy blood’s
astir, like Bliss Carman.

“To obey Wordsworth’s command to ‘go forth
into the light of things; let Nature be your teacher.’

“To tramp the fields as did Whittier’s Bare-
foot Boy; and to know the breath of new-mown
hay, like Maud Muller.

We are hoping for a very enthusiastic re-
sponse to Dr. Vinal's request for nature-
grams for this columnI which should prove
a very helpful one it our readers will
cooperate. With the Society of Recre-
ation Workers of America making the
promotion of nature recreation their chieic
objective for the current year, I940
should record real progress in this impor-
tant phase of the recreation movement.

IT’S BEING DONE 1N NATURE RECREATION

“To travel with Nesbit ‘the
little roads that find the hid-
den ways.’ '

“To explore new frontiers,
as advised Horace Greeley.

“To angle a creek yielding
a bounty of fish, as did Izaak
Walton; or just to ‘dangle
your legs where the fishing is
good,’ as did Riley.

“To turn up the nest of a field mouse, like Bob-
bie Burns.

“To climb trees like Davy Crockett.
“To plant and conserve like Apple-seed John.

“To go to the ‘old swimmin" hole’ (unpolluted),
as did James VVhitcomb Riley.

“To learn the language of all the woodfolk; to
learn their names and all their secrets; to be a
brother to Hiawatha.

“To quench thirst from a sparkling spring with
safety, as did Leatherstocking with his noggin cup.

“To bind a canoe together with fibrous roots of
the tamarack, as did Hiawatha.

“To see with the eyes of Audubon wild birds in
their native habitat.

“To live with butterHies, as did the Girl of the
Limberlost.

“To watch the first red blaze appear, hear the
sharp crackle, catch the gleam, as Whittier did.

“To see with Walt Whitman that the secret of

making the best persons is ‘to grow in the open _

air and to eat and sleep with the earth.’

“To know with Browning that ‘the lark’s on the
wing; the snail’s on the thorn.’

“To believe with Shakespeare that there are
‘sermons in stones and good in everything.’

“To think with Lowell that ‘there’s never a leaf
nor a blade too mean to be some happy creature’s
palace.’

“To sing with Stevenson, ‘Happy hearts and
happy faces, happy play in grassy places.’
“To return home as did James Whitcomb Riley

. . . ‘With a pictur’ that no painter has the colorin’
to mock -——-

\Vhen the frost is on the punkin and the fodder’s
in the shock.’ ”

 

* Extracts from Traditional American Rights, by Cap’n Bill.
Published by courtesy of the Camp Department, Cosmopolitan
Magazine. ’

l

I:
l
‘l
i

l

y

—————m

World at Play

Civic Opera Company in
Wilkes-Barre

 

TI-IE WILKES-BARRE Civic Opera
Company, according to the 1939
report of the Playground and
Recreation Association of Wyom-
ing Valley, has a membership of
forty-five. The first production,
“The Yeoman of the Guard,”
was presented to an audience of
1,200 people. The second opera
produced was “The Gondoliers.”
The Opera Company is an out—
growth of the Woman’s Municipal Chorus and is

a greatly enjoyed and appreciated feature of the
recreation program.

 

THE NATIONAL forests
now attract each year
more than 32,000,000
visitors who spend al—
most a quarter of a billion dollars on their trips.
Although the peak season comes between com-
mencement time and Labor Day, winter sports
are increasing and over a million people are now
using the newly developed winter play areas in
fifty of the national forests. There are in all 161

national forests in forty states, Alaska, and Porto
Rico.

Many Visits to the
National Forests

 

 

\VITH THE acquisition
by the New York City
Department of Parks
of a six-acre property
transferred from the Department of Water Sup-
ply, Gas and Electricity, the Park Department an-
nounces 327 new or reconstructed playgrounds
completed since January, 1934. At that time there
were 119 playgrounds in the five boroughs; at
Present there. are 405. The new area contains a
completely equipped children’s playground with a

 

. wading pool and a brick comfort station, four
j table tennis courts, a basketball court, a softball

diamond, a hard ball baseball diamond with bleach-

. 91‘s: and a football field. The entire area, com-
', prising two city blocks, is boarded with a fenced

in planting area containing many shade trees.

 

Courtesy Wyoming Valley Playground and Recreation Association

 

THIS SUMMER the De—
partment of Public
Playgrounds and Rec-
reation of Reading,
Pennsylvania, celebrated the fortieth anniversary
of the play movement in Reading. Special activi-
ties were conducted in the city playgrounds, and a
playground pageant was presented as the first in
a series of annual productions by the Department.
The theme of the pageant, called “Reading’s First
Forty,” was the progressive steps in the develop—
ment of the Department. There were few speak-

ing characters, since most of the pageant was
direct action set to music.

Reading Celebrates Its
40th Birthday

 

 

ONE OF THE interest-
ing events of the De-
partment of Municipal

Recreation and Adult
Education of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is the ballad

festival presented by the Junior Girls Clubs. The
festival has been held for nine years, and this year
all American ballads were used, with one of the

clubs writing its own. Sixteen ballads were pre-
sented on the stage of the Roosevelt Junior High
School. These included Red Wing; The Boll
Weevil; Soldier, Won’t You Marry Me? Two
Marionettes; The Country Toad; Poor Old Maid;
Three Little Kittens; The Fox in a Hungry
Plight; Toad Went A-Courting; Short’nin’ Bread;
\Vhere Did You Get That Hat? Little Orphant
Annie; The Toad’s Courtship; Ballad of the
Oyster Man; and The Candy Parade.

All-Club Contest in
Dramatized Ballad

 

327

328 l/VORLD AT PLA Y

   
  
   
  

Here’s the
New ’

DIAMOND

 

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever

made! Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
+rea+ed steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
men’r shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHUE 00.

4b|0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

Municipal Swimming Pools—To keep citi—
zens from swimming in near-by dangerous and
contaminated rivers, the city government of
Charleston, South Carolina, is planning to con-
struct two swimming pools. One of these pools
is to be for the Negroes, who have had little op—
portunity in Charleston to enjoy this healthful
exercise. There is strong sentiment for making it
possible for the less privileged children of the city
to use the pools free of charge in connection with
the playground system. It could be accomplished
by setting aside certain hours of each day, per-
haps in the forenoon, when the children from the
playgrounds can be admitted free, probably in 40-
minute shifts. These pools will be built by the
WPA out of funds already reserved; they will be
“self-liquidating.” The city will issue bonds for
Fifty-five per cent of their cost (these bonds to be
paid out of the revenue derived from the pools)
and the federal government will grant the other

forty—live per cent.

Hiking in North Carolina —-The Carolina
Hiking Club (Asheville, North Carolina) which
is one of the leading hiking clubs of the South, is

 

scheduling more than fifty trips during 1940 into
the mountains of the western part of the state.
The hikes, open to any visitors to the city, will be
conducted by experienced guides and will include
half day, day, and two or three day excursions.

County Opera and Theatricals—The newly
launched VVestchester Opera Association in West-
chester County, New York, is planning to present
“Carmen” next spring in the County Center. Di-
rector Mary Fabian, who organized the Associa-
tion, will use local talent for all but the most im-
portant roles. The opera will be sung in English.
Young People’s Theatricals, another recent or-
ganization in \Vestchester County, will produce
their first revue in March, featuring dancing, sing-
ing, and dramatic sketches. The Theatricals began
in October as a means of dramatic training for the
Negro Choral Union, but soon young people in
the five key communities were coming to weekly
rehearsals for the purpose of putting on a county-
wide revue. Rehearsals have included dance,
music instruction, choral singing, and social
dancing.

Toledo’s Churches Help—\Nhen shortage of
money caused the public schools of Toledo, Ohio,
to close for six weeks immediately after the
Thanksgiving recess, the churches of the city
stepped into the breach. Over 34 of 130 Protes-
tant churches reported that they held weekday
vacation school programs to help take care of the
leisure time created by the suspension of schools.
Varied programs were offered, including drama,
handicraft, music, and activities of various kinds.
Volunteer workers, WPA leaders, and represen-
tatives from the city’s Recreation Department pro-
vided the leadership. At the Collingwood Avenue ,-
Presbyterian Church, which was open from 9:00 ..
A. M. to 10:00 P. M., classes were held in the 3'
Church’s Community House in music apprecia- 1
tion, handicraft, and sewing. Roller skating and _,
all types of recreation were enjoyed in the gym- i
nasium. Each week the WPA orchestra gave a '
concert with musical numbers planned especially
for public school pupils.

Reports from a Youth Study—According to
a vouth study made by the Welfare Council
of New York City, the following interesting
figures concerning leisure-time activities of
young people in New York City were re—
vealed. Only one in five young people was
finding any leisure-time outlet in music; only

 

HENRY KA UFMANN

Henry Kaufmann

Henry Kaufmann, who has done so much for
the youth of Pittsburgh through the years, work-
ing particularly through the Irene Kaufmann
Settlement, on reaching his eightieth birthday re-
cently, made the following statement, which is
characteristic of him:

“Instead of receiving gifts, on the occasion of
my birthday, I prefer to give gifts to national and
local welfare agencies which serve the needy
public.”

one in twenty in group music; only one in
ten in art; only one in twenty in dramatics
(the legitimate theatre has practically no ef-
fect on the lives of young people in New York
City); only one in four goes to even one con-
‘:ert a season; only one in four attends art
galleries; only one in eight does any travel-
ng; only one in three spends as little as one
day in an out—of—town trip each' year; one in
12hree hikes rather frequently; only four per
::ent show any interest in public affairs; and
the number who participate in any form of
‘winter sports is so small as to be statistically
negligible.

These figures were reported at the Recrea-
:ion Session of the One-Day Conference on
fHuman Needs held under the Joint AuSpices
of the Welfare Council of New York City
1nd the Greater New York Fund, March 6,
ll94o, by Dr. Arthur L. Swift, Jr., of Union
‘Theological Seminary.

Playground Birthday Celebrations—“The De-
partment of Parks of New York City con—
ducted special programs of recreational activ-
ities for the boys and girls of iive playgrounds
‘luring the month of March in commemoration
pf their official opening to the public. The an-
iiversary celebration program included tumb-
ing contests, roller skating races, novelty
‘aces, track and held events, dancing, com-
nunity singing of patriotic songs, one—act
)lays, and group games.

 

l

i A New Sports Journal Appears—A new or—
ganization known as the National Semi-Pro-
lessional Badminton Association has come
into being to further the sport of badminton
in schools, recreational agencies, and private

l

   
 

329

 

on the genuine world-famous

"JUNGLEGYM"

CLIMBING STRUCTURE

'l'he "perfect playground device"——as authori-
ties the world over have called the "Iunglegym"
Climbing Structure—is now available at new
prices more than 50 per cent below the former
level. Mass production. made possible by the
ever-growing demand for this item, has enabled
us to make these drastic price reductions. Write
for our descriptive booklet telling why the "Jun-
glegym” Climbing Structure is the safest, most
economical, most educational, most all-around

desirable play apparatus you can buy. New
prices are quoted with the booklet.

Send for our beautiful new Recreation Equipment
Catalog. just oi! the press!

1
m I. s. PORTER conponan-oliv

OTTAWA *

ILLINOIS

Manufacturers of the famous "London." "Chicago" and "Spalding"
lines of playground, swimming pool and gymnasium equipment

 

 

clubs throughout the country. The associa-
tion will publish each month The Badminton
Journal which will bring to its subscribers
suggestions, teaching and playing helps, and
news from the badminton world. The Bad-
minton Journal may be secured for $1.00 a year.
Further information may be secured from the
National Semi-Professional Badminton Asso-
ciation, 1601 Main Street, Evanston, Illinois.

Recreation Survey—The Associated Clubs of
VVoodlawn (Chicago, Illinois) recently dis-
tributed a questionnaire which listed nineteen
types of recreational activities, in order to de-
termine the recreational needs of the \Vood-
lawn District. This questionnaire was the
result of the activities of the organization’s
planning committee which has been studying
the facilities of the area. The returned forms
will be sent to agencies which offer the types
of recreation checked. Interested citizens will
be brought together in this manner, and the
recreation committee will attempt to help or—
ganize the desired activities.

330 HISTORIC CANAL BECOMES PLAY AREA

Historic Canal Becomes

Play Area

- EVELOPMENT by the Federal government of

one of the most unusual recreation projects
in the East is rapidly approaching completion
in the environs of Washington. This project
is the restoration for about twenty-two miles
from Washington up along the Potomac in
Maryland of the historic Chesapeake and Ohio
canal. Two years ago the government bought

the old waterway and its abutting property
for about a sixth of the original cost and has
been engaged in transforming the lower canal

reaches into a boating, fishing, and general
recreation area. It is hoped that the restora-
tion will be completed early in 1940, and then
the citizens of Washington will begin to take
.advantage of its attractions and facilities,
which will be unique in the East, if not in the
entire United States. For the objective of the
National Park Service, in charge of the project,
has been not only to provide an attractive area
where recreation can be found either by canoe
or rowboat, or on foot, but to restore as nearly
:as possible the original appearance of the
canal, once considered an engineering marvel.
This has meant the restoration of the twenty-
'three massive red sandstone locks with their
.ancient manually operated gates and of five
.ancient stone lock houses along the route
“which will be converted into combination
restaurants and boat landing establishments.
"The old canal tavern at Great Falls, Where
-canal.passengers were accustomed to break
'their leisurely towboat journeys from Wash-
ington up the river, will again become a dining
place and overnight stop for boaters, fisher-
men, and sightseeing in general. All the way
along the canal will be the old mule towpath
'tO be restored as a footway for hikers and
wandering picnickers.

Nora: On May 30, 1940, the Great Falls-
Seneca level of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
was opened as a recreational waterway, and on
that date the water fiowed through an eight mile
section for the first time since 1924. In spite of
inclement weather, canoeists and rowers were on
hand to enjoy the facilities provided.

Mrs. Olive A. Stallings

The death of Mrs. Olive A. Stallings, Presiden
of the Playground Community Service Commis
sion of New Orleans, Louisiana, occurred on Jun
8, 1940. Mrs. Stallings was one of the earl
pioneers in the playground and recreation moviL
ment in New Orleans. The Olive A. Stalling
Playground in New Orleans is a monument to hé
zeal and to her efforts to promote clean recreatioi
For many years recreation was her chief interes;

Irwin F. Poche, who has been elected presider;
to succeed Mrs. Stallings, was first employed 
the Playground Department some 25 years agt
He was brought into the playground work by Mj
L. di Benedetto, manager and assistant secretarj
and now serves as president of the Commissid
under which he formerly worked. 

Mrs. Stallings at the time of her death and ft.
many years before had been an honorary membt‘
of the National Recreation Association.

 

 

From Football to Folk Dancing—Ten yeai
ago the Cheyenne Mountain School, Coloradi
dropped football from its sports calenda
substituting folk dancing for both boys an
girls in its place. Today the Cheyenne Moui
tain dancers have achieved such distinctid
that they are booked for professional toui
throughout the United States.

National Citizens’ Committee Appointed:
Acting upon a recommendation of the 
House Conference on Children in a Demo;
racy, Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins,chai '
man of the Conference, has announced the ajf
pointment of five members of a Nation"
Citizens’ Committee which, together with 
Federal inter-agency committee will be rj
sponsible for developing a follow-up prograzrl
for the Conference. The five members a}?
Homer Folks, Secretary, State Charities A”:
Association; Mrs. Saidie Orr Dunbar, Presr
den, General Federation of Women’s Club;l:
Dr. William G. Carr, Secretary, the Educ)
tional Policies Commission, National Educ
tion Association; Reverend Bryan J. McE:
tegart, Director, Division of Children, Cathol
Charities of the Archdiocese of New Yorl
and Henry F. Helmholz, M.D., Professor
Pediatrics, Graduate School, University
Minnesota.

GRACE GREENE BAKER __ PIONEER CITIZEN 331

Grace Greene Baker—~—
Pioneer Citizen

An outstanding citizen of Mount Vernon, New
{York, was honored recently when Mayor Hussey
proclaimed June 20th as Good Citizenship Day in
[honor of Grace Greene Baker, for forty years
iictive in all civic, education, and social move-
ments. Mrs. Baker has resigned as chairman of
:he Recreation Commission of which she was a
'founder and to which she gave invaluable service.
The recreation movement needs more citizens of
Mrs. Baker’s devotion.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

As Originally
Developed by . . ..

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity

Basketball Coach
University or Kansas
Lawrence, Kansas

I
i
l

I Chicago Co-Ed Club — The Off-the-Street-
Club in Chicago has demonstrated for a long time

ihat boys and girls can and should play together.
il‘hrough a system of group socials run by the
Club, boys and girls were organized into like-in.—
erest groups. They follow and develop their
«pecial interests —— Photography, Know-Your-
Zity, Chemistry, Aviation, Radio—and hold fre-
luent social meetings and dances—From Youth
liieaders Digest, January 1940.

Woodcraft—The Detroit, Michigan, Depart-
inent of Recreation notes in its Fall and Winter
t3ulletz‘n, 1939-1940, the trend in playground wood-
}:raft toward jointed or movable articles utilizing
unall scraps of wood for the small parts. Since
ihe only added expense for these projects is the
mrchase of a small punch drill, the bulletin states
ihat instructors will be greatly compensated for
Ihe investment by its many uses and by the great
l'iariety of articles they may offer to their classes.

 

New Recreation Department—By exchang-
lng credit on taxes for land, Ferndale, Mich—-
gan, has acquired titles to three parks and rec-
eation areas. A recreation department has
teen set up, under the board of education, to
irect and coordinate all recreational activities

the community.
5

 

A New Orchestra for San Antonio—San An-
pnio, Texas, has a new orchestra made up of one
tundred school children, picked players from
Unior and senior high schools and upper elemen—
1ry grades. Rehearsals are held every Saturday
morning. The leader, a professional musician, is
jolunteering his services.

 

l

l

 

fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating

exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Under Exclusive LicenseIAgreemem‘.)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
3524 DeKalb Street .. .. .. .. .. .. St. Louis, Mo.

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

 

 

Recreation on the Air—From January to
June 1939 the Bureau of Recreation in Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania, presented twenty-two
weekly broadcasts under the title “As We
Live.” Fifteen-minute dramatic episodes pre-
sented by talented young people from the
city recreation centers covered these topics:
supervised coasting; the value of sportsman-
ship in athletics; opposition to social reform
and its evil effects; juvenile vandalism and its
cure through playground activity; therapeutic
value of swimming for cripples; adult activ-
ities at a recreation center.

“The American Teacher” Offers Special
Issue—Racial problems are discussed in the
January, 1940, issue of The American Teacher.
Among the contributions in this issue is a plea
for racial tolerance by Dr. John W. Studebaker
entitled “Americans All.” The American Teacher
is published by the American Federation of
Teachers, 506 South Wabash Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois. Single copies, 35 cents.

332 LAWN BOLVLING

Fair Grounds to Become a Park—At a spe—
cial election held in Waconia, Minnesota, a
$13,000 bond issue for the purchase of [the fair
grounds was carried by a two to one majority.
Title to the property will be transferred from the
Fair Association to the city for park purposes.

Lawn Bowling
(Continued from page 316)

range in size from 4%” to 5%; ” in diameter and
weigh a maximum of 3%: pounds, were perfectly
round or as nearly so as mechanics of those days
could make them. Naturally such bowls would
take a straight course across the green and, as—
suming the green to be level and smooth, all the
bowls if well delivered would come to rest in a
straight line. In order to overcome this condition
the early greens were not level but higher in the
middle, or on one side in the case of a narrow
green, so that the player would have to judge how
much his bowl would deviate from the straight
path in its course across the green.

It was later that the Scotch again improved
'upon this style of play, and instead of crown
greens they hit upon the idea of having a
level, keen green with a biased bowl; that is, a
bowl which is heavier on oneside, making it curve
.to the object (jack) aimed at.

Unlike indoor bowling, a game of “but and
brawn,” where the object is to knock something
(tenpins) over with a heavy, hard driven ball,
lawn bowling requires a gently delivered bowl to
be given the required “width” and the proper
"‘weight” to arrive at and stay near the object
previously named.

A bowling green is from 120 to I40 feet square.
Made square, it will last longer and permit of
'better bowling as the rinks can be changed around.
'This arrangement preserves the end or the place
where the bowl is delivered from, which neces-
;sarily stands a great deal of wear, particularly
from faulty delivery of a bowl.

A green is divided into eight rinks on which
«eight players or two teams can play. In all sixty-
four players can play on a bowling green at one
time on a space 120 feet square. This is a strong
argument in favor of the game when one con—
siders that a golf course requires several miles.

The {bowls shall not exceed 16% inches in cir-
cumference nor 3% pounds in weight, nor shall
"the bias be less than the standard bowl adopted

by the International Bowling Board. It is now
necessary for all bowls to be stamped I.B.B. by
the manufacturers in this country who have been
given permission by the American Lawn Bowling
Association to manufacture equipment.

The game can be played by rinks, four men
playing against four others, each man playing two,
bowls alternately. When the sixteen bowls have
been played, the side with the bowls nearest the
white jack wins the end. They must have one on
more bowls closer to the jack then the nearest of;
their opponents. Doubles are played with two
bowlers against two others, each bowler being
obliged to bowl four bowls. In singles the player.
has four bowls against a similar number played
by his opponent.

Lawn bowlers in this country, now that they
have a strong national association behind them:
are quite sure that within a few years the game
will become as popular as it is in Canada and
other countries. Our climate in most sections is
ideal for the game, and with the greens lighted at
night and the fine summers we usually have there
is a great future for this health-giving pastime.

Our Rhythm Band

(Continued from page 311)

in the ruler. Fasten adhesive tape over one side
of it. Place one spike in each hole, making sure
that it has sufficient play to have a pleasing sound
when struck. Fasten the apparatus on the stand
which is to be painted. Strike the spikes or chimes '
with another spike.

Other Instruments 

Pieces of iron or steel that sound well wher Ii
struck; whistles, bells, small xlePhOHES, was“!
boards, gazoos. This field is almost limitless. r"

l
l
t
I

Wandering Bed and Board

(Continued from page 300)

places, sleep there in the remote and lovely spot:
that can only be reached on foot. Some prefer tc‘
go camping in other ways, by canoe or pack train
But I submit that there is no other way that give.-
you half the freedom of doing it afoot. \Nhel
you go into the woods with guides or hors‘.

wranglers you barter your freedom for a littl
comfort.

ARNO B. CAMMERER 333

WHEN YOU BUY UNIVERSAL
QUALITY BLEACHERS—

Arno B. Cammerer

.-\rno B. Cammerer, Director of the National
Park Service since 1933. recently resigned his
position because of his health. He will, however,
.continue to serve the National Park Service in
ganother capacity which will not impose on him the
:rigorous executive duties involved in the director-
iship.

Coming to the National Park Service in 1919,
Mr. Cammerer served through fourteen of the
ipioneering years during which the policies and
,;traditions of the Service were being formulated.
;VVhen he took over the directorship the organiza-
ition was entering upon a much wider conservation
.program. and he carried a tremendous responsi-
bility for coordinating the growing program and
,directingit into channels of permanent greatness.
l“lt is my belief.” says Horace A. Allright in a
Itribute 'to Mr. Cammerer in Planning and Civic
Comment, “that the enduring value of the national
,park program while Mr. Cammerer was director
iwill mark that period as one of the greatest in
national park history.”

' Newton P. Drury, Executive Secretary of the
California Department of Conservation, will be-
come the fourth director of the Service.

I
I
I

Guiding the Camp Counselor
| (Continued from page 304)
Iideas and plans they have a part in forming, and
[gain great satisfactions from life.

Who evaluates the work of counselors and
lcounselor groups which stimulates them to greater
efforts and achievements? Director or leader
evaluation is about the only type that is done, and
often this is totally negative. This leads to a
shifting of counselors from camp to camp each
summer, and results in little of educational value
lfor counselors or campers. A guiding philosophy
is needed which stimulates self-evaluation, brings
.forth greater effort, and promotes freedom,
growth and happiness for the counselor. This in
turn will react on the campers and stimulate the
development of all. Progress can best be made by
freeing the human spirit, giving it avenues of
expression through challenging things to do and
encouraging self -evaluation.

Little follow—up has been attempted for coun-
selors. Occasionally a few days of winter camp-
ing or a banquet during the late fall or early
winter result in contacts with counselors, but few
camps carry out such programs. The permanent

 

Don't be fooled by low initial price . . . ultimately quality
products are cheaper. for ultimate cost is initial cost plus
maintenance cost plus annual depreciation. Universal quality
so reduces maintenance and so prolongs useful life, that the
ultimate cost of Universal Bleachers is much less than that oi

second grade products.

Write today for descriptive bulletins and our check sheet
of iirst grade requirements. there is no obligation.

UNIVERSAL BLE'ACHER co.

606 SOUTH NEIL STREET CHAMPAIGN, ILLINOIS

 

and lasting values to be obtained from camp have
not suHiciently been taken into account.

A Few Guiding Principles

It is necessary to broaden the camp program
and enrich the experience for all.

There should be delegation of responsibilities
for counselors according to abilities and needs,
and freedom in which to grow.

Freedom for counselors and campers to grow
in knowledge and skill according to the ability of
the individual.

Camp should promote skill in self-direction,
evaluation and adjustment, and should establish
the right ideals and attitudes for camp, home,
school and community.

Suggested Recommendations

A year-round position for the director.
Camp should be open the entire year, and made
available for counselor and camper groups at all

times.

A long view of camping is needed with better
organization, improved plans and lasting values
emphasized.

334 TELEVISION AS A NEPV AID TO RECREATION

Television as a New Aid to Recreation
( Continued from page 306)

tournament or other event may be in xprogress.
The portable equipment can send its telecast
through a so—called “hay—rake” antenna by short
wave to the “V” shaped antenna at the main
studio, where it can be picked up and sent out
over the regular television channel of that station.

Television, long predicted as “just around the
corner,” now is apparently turning that corner
and coming into clear view. It will soon be fully
on the scene as an integral part of our daily lives.
What is happening in Los Angeles is being re-
peated on a scale larger or smaller in other prin—
cipal cities of the United States. In time, tele-
vision will also be brought to the smaller com-
munities of the nation. Because of their great
potential value in the field of leisure activity, it is
well to keep abreast of these deveIOpments and to
look forward to the time when television will be

widely'used as anaid to public edUCation and
recreation.

BoaHng
(Continued from page 322)
see it start to flap or quiver near the mast.
(5) Don’t let the wind get around behind you,
but keep facing it; yet don’t face directly into
it if you want to make headway, but slant

into it—except for the moment of turning
around.

Regime

Have different colored sails for the novices,
partially experienced men, and the thoroughly ex-
perienced men, so that you can keep track of them
and keep them within their respective bounds.
Keep a file with the name of each boat in it. Put
the individual card of each boy or girl or man,
with his story written on it, in the file under the
name of the boat when he takes it. Use practice
of “first come, hrst served” to keep all boats busy.
Have your participants report to the officer that
everything is shipshape before he finally pushes off.
A swimming test of a few yards—not to see if the
boy can swim, but to see if he will hang on to
his boat without being panicked in case his boat
overturns—is essential. Life jackets are desirable.
Heavy clothing, coats, and shoes are detrimental.

Cost

Materials for your boat including sail and paint
should be less than twenty dollars. Market price

of your complete boat should be less than lift)
dollars. You need about one supervisor for ever)
twenty boats. About twenty active club members
will use each boat in the course of a week. Bigger
boats are desirable for the experienced boys. Buj
those should preferably be schooners employing:
three of the same small sails each tended by a boi:
to keep the crew busy and separate and encouragig
team play—with one boy as captain. These largei'
boats will not cost much more and will be a grea;

help in patroling the program. ’1

Kayak Sailing—a Sport with Thrills!
( C ontinued from page 318) f'

In general there are two fundamental types 
kayaks—the Eskimo and the Scandinavian dig
signs. There are a number of types of canva‘
boats used throughout the country which an
termed kayaks but which are not genuine ones.

The Scandinavian boat is long, slim, and 
lined throughout—typically a. racing boat. Thy
Eskimo designs are comparatively heavy, high an;
stout, and are built principally for seagoing an};
rough water. The latter have proved more popuw
Iar on the West Coast. These boats offer excellen 5.
material for the manual training or recreatio-l
program. The total cost may be from arounriI
$7.00 to $18.00, depending on the size of the boa] .
and the design, and material used. The recreal
tional values involved include working on design
and modifying plans, the mechanical work 9
actual construction, the physical training and ski
involved in the use of the boat with incident;
swimming and water safety experience, and th
social aspect of groups or clubs with thei
various meetings, expeditions, and events. 
boats may be made with single or double cocl}
pits, are easily transported, and are suitable fc‘
use in rivers, lakes, bays and, to a limited exten
in the surf. ,

The events include races of several types, pit‘i
nics and camping trips, and stunts such as tlti
“Eskimo Roll,” which involves rolling the b0::'
over and over sideways by the use of a doublt
bladed paddle and rather skillful lurches on th
part of the paddler.

The method of construction will vary somewh;
according to the program of which it is a part an
the policies of that program. Where boats are ,1
be built in quantities, however, it is desirable fu‘.
to build a frame or forms on which a number g
boats may be framed. The frames or ribs are the
secured to the form, stem and stern pieces a1

O. W. R. C.

hastened in place, and the longerons or longi—
~ 1dinal frames are set in. The boat is then re—
ilaoved from the form. Deck carlins and cockpit
7... names are put in. The deck longerons go in next,
the boat is covered with canvas, and the combings
.lsnd moldings are secured in place. After this the

~ boat is ready to be sealed with some sort of canvas
Healer and painted.

O. W. R. C.

( Continued from page 319)

it. 'fter an interim of twenty years, there was
' gain a demonstration of this same helpful
,tpirit. Several boats, beautifully decorated by
_ ; committee from the O. W. R. C., were an out-

mtanding feature in a pageant at the Golden
‘ liate International Exposition.

This unfailing willingness to do their bit can

‘1 some measure be traced to the fact that the

). W. R. C. was organized in the first years of

lie first World War. Not a week passed with-

lut this group being called into service. There

'ere innumerable Red Cross benefits, boxes

acked to be sent to the front, knitting and

swing projects, entertainment for soldiers in

,‘earby camps, whooping up the “Buy a Bond”

‘ampaign by buying one of the first offered in

{leir city.

Thus working together for both city and

lation in the early days of their organiza—
.:.on, a comradeship developed that has grown
"troughout the years. To see that this com-
lldeship is no superficial thing one has only to
lttend one of the meetings when weighty mat-
itrs are discussed. Pros and cons may fill the

llI', talking out of order may be controlled
l'ith great difficulty, but ultimately all is set-

ed as it should be and they adjourn, happily
1nd good-naturedly, for one more row on the
lake. Here the Lake contributes its part to
J his comradeship through the beauty of its blue—
lreen waters, the rhythm of the oars, the quiet
lnd orderly “All Pull Together” spirit so
lecessary to successful rowing.

The twenty-fourth in their unbroken series
it special annual luncheons was held this year
t Lake Merritt Hotel with one hundred and
iree members and special guests present.
ilere overlooking the Lake upon whose waters
[t least one of their crews has rowed every
Wednesday morning, rain or shine, since 1916,
la good time was had by one and all.”

l Summed up from many standpoints, this
gioneer O. W. R. C. should hold a high rating

 

335

   

FOLD - O - LEG TABLES

Just the thing for
recreation rooms.
Easily and quickly ’
set up or talten
down. Inexpen-
sive. lifetime ser-
vice. Available in
variety of top
materials and
finishes.

     
 
       
     
 

TUBUUIR STEEL _ '
FOLDING LEGS

 
      
    
  
 
 

Write for information concerning our complete line of Play-

ground Apparatus. Pool Equipment. Fold-O-Leg Tables. and
Folding Stands for Bands, Orchestra: and Choral Groups.

MII‘CIIELL MFG. C0.

3034 W. FOREST HOME AVE. MILWAUKEE. WISC.

  
  

among groups organized by Departments of

Playground and Recreation throughout our
nation.

San Antonio's Puppet Theater
(Continued from page 320)

One day the music and dramatics director was
enthusiastically discussing the prospected puppet
theater with some of her friends— friends who
were in no way connected with recreation work.
The subject of window decoration came up. How
could the windows be treated in a fashion that
would not conflict with the idea of puppetry, and
yet would be suitable for a building which, in
outline, was still obviously a church? One of the
“lay” friends conceived the idea of simulating
stained glass with cellophane, and was immedi-
ately induced by the enthusiastic director to tackle
the problem herself. First she experimented on
her own bedroom windows, then taught her new-
ly-acquired technique to some of the playground
leaders. Using the well-beloved story of Don
Quixote as her theme, she designed ceIIOphane
cutouts which would tell his. life story in pictures.
Under her direction the playground leaders did
most of the actual cutting and pasting. The
bright-colored cellophane, in true stained—glass
tones of rich red, green, gold, blue and purple,
lets in plenty of light and blends beautifully with
the blue and wine burlap curtains of the little
stage. Net result—interesting and original win-
dows, plus a lay person whose enthusiasm for rec-
reational activity jumped from zero to 100. She
gave her time and energy “just for the fun of it.”
and when she was through she was a new “rooter”
for recreation.

336 THURSDAY NIGHT AT HIRAM HOUSE PLAYGROUND

Other laymen, too, have become enthusiastic
workers in the puppet theater. Mary Aubrey
Keating, noted artist, painted a backdrop for the
stage, and came away singing the praises of rec-
reation. Octavio Medellion, a well-known local
sculptor, taught some of the workers how to carve
beautiful wooden puppet heads, and in turn caught
the fever of enthusiasm. Rosalie Berkowitz, who
was recently awarded first prize in a state-wide
art contest, painted some of the puppets’ faces.
All these lay people worked free of charge, taught
the regular workers invaluable lessons, and helped
to spread the news about recreation in San An-
tonio. Needless to say, a community never bene-
fits from recreation until it knows what recrea-
tion is.

Ingenuity and originality are keywords of the
theater program. The Spanish lanterns that give
light from the ceiling look like genuine antiques,
but are made of sheet metal and gelatin paper.
The audience sits on bright blue benches made in
the recreation department’s newly established craft
shop.

Performances are free to the public. They are
held every day (except Sundays and Mondays)
at five and eight P. M. Some of the plays were
written by a local author and deal with Texas
history. All performances are well attended and
well received. Tourists, visiting celebrities, school
teachers with their classes, and the neighborhood’s
hundreds of Mexican children make up the audi-
ences‘. To date, at the end of six weeks, 1,482
adults and I. 543 children have attended. All alike
respond to the informality and the “Land of
Make Believe” atmosphere of the little theater.

The playground leaders themselves are as thrill-
ed as the audience; they are amazed at their own
progress, and they have gained an insight into the
true meaning of recreation. They feel that they
are helping to meet a crying need in their own
community.

When these young men and women first came
into the Department, no one would have called
them a particularly talented group. Not one of
them had manipulated puppets before, and only
one had made them, but now, after only six weeks,
they are putting on finished performances. Already
the eight members of this group are infinitely
better equipped as playground leaders than they
were before. All have learned invaluable lessons
in working with other people, and they have
almost unconsciously formulated a code of ethics
for playground leadership.

"Public Opinion"

(Continued from page 312)
in gifts to charity. We are convinced, therefore,
that citizens are interested in “sharing” in a play
ground program. This raises the point as t9
whether taxpayers supporting a public Recreatioi;
Department would also wish to share in its pro?
gram if given a chance.

Thursday Night at Hiram House

Playground
(Continued from page 294) ‘ I
with a tolerant humor that comes of good fellow}; ,

ship. The music begins. On a little wooden seatt'
ing arrangement like small bleachers many chili
dren and grown-ups are sitting waiting for th§
show to start. On a bench that runs the wholé.
length of the playground’s side many women with
their babies are sitting. :

N ow that darkness has fallen. The crowd}
moves about, listening to the music, drinking milk, '
The milk stands are not run for profit and thg.
three cent price is within reach of most. Herigl
we see a tiny girl who reaches up to the millfl
stand with her three cents, buys a bottle of millil
which she unselfishly gives to her still tiniei‘
brother while she munches on the graham cracker
that went with the purchases. Scenes like this arg
common all over the playground. 

A hush falls on the crowd. Eight thousand
eyes turn upward as the l'll‘St pictures flash on th§
screen above their heads. The sound apparatué
begins to work. Whatever the feature is, 
Mickey Mouse, or a comic short of some other
kind, it is always received with great enthusiasm,
This is not the ordinary movie crowd of the cities
clamoring for the very latest of Hollywood pros
ductions, but a group that is hungry for entertain—l
ment of any kind. Movies here are judged orLi'
their intrinsic merits, on their ability to product
a laugh that rises from the crowd, or a multifoldiI
exclamation of surprise and wonder. Picturesi
dealing with animal characters always have a tre-l'i
mendous vogue with these outdoor audiences. Lit-
tle boys shout, babies gurgle, mothers laugh. The
show is on. For almost an hour the movies con;
tinue. The crowd watches—moving about some-
times but always interested.

At last the words “GOOD NIGHT” flash on the‘
screen. There is a sigh of disappointment, but all
good things must reach an end. The crowd bej
gins to disperse. Parents come to fetch their chil-
dren. Adults begin to make their way homewardi

A.——...

.__._-I-—.v —— Mina—“.13..” P

EMA GAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

With the State Parks

HE TWENTIETH National Conference on State

Parks held May 12-16, 1940, more nearly re-
sembled a migration this year, starting as it did
at Starved Rock State Park in Illinois, proceed-
ing to New Salem State Park and then across into
Indiana for visits at Turkey Run State Park,
McCormick’s Creek State Park, and Spring Mill
State Park. Col. Richard Lieber of Indianapolis,
was re-elected Chairman of the Board and Harold
S. Wagner of Akron, Ohio, was reelected Presi-
dent of the Conference. Miss Harlean James
continues as Executive Secretary. Conrad Wirth,
Supervisor of the Branch of Recreation, Land
Planning and State Cooperation of the National
Park Service was elected a life member of the
Board of Directors. Next year the Conference
will meet in Pine Mountain State Park, Georgia.

In his address of welcome, Charles P. Casey,
Director of the Illinois Department of Public
\Vorks and Buildings, emphasized the importance
of recreation in the modern scene. The State of
Illinois now has two acres of state parks for every
1000 inhabitants. A later speaker stated that 11-
linois planned eventually to have ten acres of
state parks for every 1000 inhabitants.

Citing the growth in State Parks since the
founding of the National Conference on State
Parks, Col. Lieber pointed out that in 1923, 25
states had 120 state parks whereas in 1940, 47
states have 821 areas. In an address on “Camp-
ing,” L. B. Sharp, Executive Director of Life
Camps, urged that youth should not only be taken
to the woods, but through them. He contrasted
the traditional centralized camp with decentralized
camping which involves small groups of youth on
their own, cooking their own food, building their
own Shelter, and planning their own program.

Garrett Eppley, Associate Regional Planner,
Region II, National Park Service, pointed out the
importance of leadership in state parks. Com—
menting on this presentation, President \Nag’ner
said that recognition of leadership will mean much
to the life or death of many state parks.

The next Conference on State Parks will be
held in Georgia, and will convene in Pine Moun-
tain State Park early in April 1941.

 

 

After a while the playground is deserted.
Such is a Thursday night at Hiram House dur-
ing the summer.

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 2

    

MAGAZINES

Beach and Pool, June 1940

“Helpful Pointers“ by Carroll Bryant. Points to be
used .m convmcmg the public of the necessity of
knowmg how to swim

“How to Stage a Water Safety Campaign” by Clyde
Baird

The Comping illagazine, June 1940

“From the Ground Up” by Alice Humphrey Doer-
mann. “An adventure in ceramics under the pines”

“Music in Camp” by Mary L. Northway

‘The Use of Dolls as an Approach to Indian Lore”
by Ethel Theonen

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, June 1940

“Let’s Go Fishing” by Gilmer G. Robinson. An arti-

cle o_n “Skish,” a game based on bait casting
techniques

Scholastic Coach, June 1940

“Light Up the Night”
“Layouts of Court Games for Physical Education
and Recreation Areas” compiled by Caswell M.

Miles, Thomas Lyon White, Leonard G. White

PAM PH LETS

Bibliography on Family Life, Parenthood, and Young
People’s Relationships
Federal Council of Churches, 297 Fourth Avenue,
New York, price 10¢

Collateral Studies for Work Experience on N.Y.A. Proj-
ects: [Machine Woodworking, The Jigsaw
National Youth Administration for Illinois, Mer-
chandise Mart, Chicago, Ill.

The Community and Its Young People by M.M. Chambers
American Y0uth Commission, 744 Jackson Place,
Washington, D. C., price 15¢

Community Responsibility for Youth. Recommendations

of the American Youth Commission
American Council on Education, 744 Jackson Place,

Washington, D. C.

4-H Club Insect Manual _
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,

price 10¢

Negro Youth, Their Social and Economic Backgrounds:
A Selected Bibliography of Unpublished Studies

1900-1938
American Youth Commission, 744 Jackson Place,

Washington, D. C., price 30¢

Organization of 4-H Club Work—A Guide for Local

Leaders _
Superintendent of Documents, \Vashington, D. C.,

price 10¢

Selected References to Recreation-Program Material

by Ella Gardner
Extension Service, United States Department of

Agriculture, \Vashington, D. C.

338 A SPRING CLEAN-UP CAMPAIGN

Magazines and Pamphlets

Houston. Texas. Recreation Department

Lincoln Urban League, Lincoln, Nebraska

Community Service, Whiting, Indiana ,

Department of Public Welfare, Louisville, Ky. (contains
report of Division of Recreation)

Delaware County. Pa., Park and Recreation Board

Berwyn, Ill., Playground and Recreation Commission

Department of Recreation, Kalamazoo, Michigan

Bureau of Recreation, Department of Public Works,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Allentown, Pa., Recreation Commission

York, Pa., Recreation Commission

Park Commission, Essex County, New Jersey

Board of Recreation, Paterson. New Jersey

Lafayette, Louisiana, Recreation Commission

Magic in the Recreation Program
(Continued from page 296)

will see in magic a form of enjoyment through
participation, and they will use it as a means of
developing friendships through common interest,
self-education, alertness, resourcefulness, poise,
balance, and grace. They will find it invaluable in
working with shy and problem children for
through it psychomotor skills and coordinations
may be achieved. Care must be taken, however,
to see that guidance in magic is adapted to the
individual child so that it is an expression of his
OWn needs and abilities, and does not become the
prime factor in itself.

A Spring Clean-up Campaign
(Continued from page 323)

ing at which the Fire Chief, Public Works
Commissioner, local contractor in charge of
rubbish collections, and the Association com-
mittee members spoke on the subject of health,
fire prevention, and sanitation. The Scouts
distributed flyers telling of proper garbage
disposal to all of the 773 families. A commit—
tee made a careful survey of all yards and
alleys, marking down the dirty ones on maps
drawn up by the scoutmaster. Photographs
of these spots were taken.

On April first, neighborhood children, with
the thirty-two Boy Scouts and their leaders,
went to each dirty alley and yard and with
hoes, rakes, and shovels cleaned up every bit
of trash and garbage. A city truck followed
along, and the larger boys put the trash in
baskets and threw it into the truck. Many
people brought out waste material from their
attics and cellars, making it a Fire Prevention
Drive. Cooperation was even greater than it
had been in the playground project. The work
was carried on for six weeks. Parades and

meetings were held. Many photographs show-
ing the newly cleaned yards and alleys were
taken. All local newspapers contributed much
in the way of editorials and articles on san-
itation. A thorough checkup at the end of
the six weeks showed that all dirty spots had
been cleaned.

The educational value of this campaign was .
great. Mothers and fathers became conscious
of the conditions of their surroundings. See-
ing their own children cleaning up the trash
emphasized the importance of proper methods
of disposal. Many families obtained new con—
tainers. For those many children who partici-
pated in the campaign it was a case of learn—
ing and acquiring attitudes by doing. It was
citizenship training of the first degree. The
thirty-two Boy Scouts of Troop 76 derived im-
measureable satisfaction from their work espe-
cially because of the 11th Scout Law which
says that “a scout is c1ean——clean in his mind,
in body, in his home, and in his neighbor-
hood.” The campaign gave all an opportun-
ity to be of practical service to the commun-
ity. And it was something which could not
have been without the development of the
vacant lot playground.

NOTE: A recent communication from the East
Boston Social Centers Council announces that a
third playground will soon be completed through
the efforts of the East Boston neighborhood folks.
The history of its development is interesting.

Over the East Boston tunnel there is a piece of
land owned by the City Transit Department which
can never be taken for building purposes. A com—
mittee of two from the Neighborhood Playground
Association was appointed to call upon the transit
commissioner and the secretary to the Mayor to
present needs of the children and ask for the use
of the property as a playground. The committee
obtained permission to use the land indefinitely
without charge. Then the neighborhood people
began operations. Men and boys started in digging
post holes, breaking up chunks of clay, sifting soil,
and mixing cement in their spare time. The East
Boston Social Centers Council donated $250, and
this sum, together withamounts which the asso-
ciation will raise at Saturday night dances, Will
defray. the cost of a fence and make possible the
purchase of a junglegym. There will also be a
horseshoe court, a ten foot chute, and sand boxes.
The land, which is L-shaped, contains about 750
square feet. It will take care of approximately
one hundred children.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

American Vacations

By Larry Nixon. Little, Brown and Company, Boston.
$2.25.

MERICAN VACATIONS is written expressly for Americans
A of moderate means who cannot afford expensive trips.
The book [will tell you how to get the most fun, rest, and
relaxation out of vacations in the United States, and it
covers vacation resources of every state. There are chap-
ters on farmhouse vacations, dude ranches without “trim-
mings,” Youth Hostels, and national parks. The volume
is specific in its information on how to plan, what to wear,
what to take, where to get it, and what it costs.

Reading with Children

I By Asnne Thaxter Eaton. The Viking Press, New York.
$2 0.

I GROWNUPS WILL RENEW their youth in this delightful
| book which will bring to life many memories and
I hours spent with favorite books of their youth. Much
has happened in the children’s “book world in a genera-
l tion. Old favorites have won new friends and blossomed
forth in attractive new editions, or they have fallen from
I favor. New books have won recognition, and accordingly
old and new books march through the pages of this
volume. Particularly interesting to the general reader
1 will be the answers Miss Eaton is able to give to fre-
quent questions: “What was the book I used to love so
well 3” “Do children like it today as much as I did then?”

Outdoor Cooking

By Cora, Rose and Bob Brown. The Greystone Press,
New York. $2.50.

lI THE BROWNS have cooked under every conceivable con-

dition in all parts of the world, and they have at their

finger tips ways of meeting any of the difficulties that

0 may arise in outdoor cooking. They share with their

" readers not only delicious recipes but information on

cooking supplies which nature furnishes free of charge
and methods of building all types of cook fires.

You won’t go wrong if you do your cooking “the

I Brown way” !

’ The Vacation Guide

i By Robert Spiers Benjamin. Whittlesey House, McGraw-
Hill Book Company, Inc., New York. $2.50.

HE VACATION GUIDE not only describes America’s
I many and varied vacation possibilities, but also classi-
' fies them by types and by season, and tells which are
best for families, for single men and women, for younger
and older pe0ple. There are sections on music and dance
festivals, colorful folk carnivals, and summer theaters.
l The book also gives the American calendar, scheduling
| unique and outstanding events and spectacles for each
month such as the tournament of roses at Pasadena, and
Dutch Tulip Time in Holland, Michigan. The final sec-
1 tion gives a list of organizations where free travel litera-
ture may be secured.

l
l

\

The Days We Celebrate

Volumes I, II, III, and IV. Compiled and edited by

Robert Haven Schauii’ier. Dodd, Mead and Company,
New York. Each $2.50.

MR. SCHAUFFLER, whose Our Aiizerican Holidays and

Plays for Our American Holidays are so widely
known, has given us a new series in The Days We Cele-
brate. Volumes I, II, III, and IV of this series are now
available. The first is devoted to Christmas, St. Valen-
tine’s Day, St. Patrick’s Day, and Easter. Volume II
covers New Year’s Day, All Fool’s Day, May Day,
Arbor Day, Harvest Festival, and Thanksgiving; Vol-
ume III, Lincoln’s Birthday, Washington’s Birthday,
Memorial Day, Flag Day, Independence Day, and
Armistice Day. In Volume IV will be found suggested
celebrations for Mother’s Day, Music Week, Graduation
Day, Father’s Day, Hallowe’en, and Book Week. Each
volume offers easily staged and acted plays, pageants,

masques and tableaux, and there is material adapted for
the use of children of all ages.

Busy Fingers

By Hildegard Fochs. Adapted by Adair Forrester. David

McKay Company, South Washington Square, Phila—
delphia. $2.50.

HIS BOOK OF HANDCRAFT is intended for beginners and

is designed to help the uninitiated become. familiar
with processes and materials used. The projects described
include useful articles for the home, personal wear, dec-
orations for parties, and games of .various types which
can be made even by small children. The book deals with
the simplest forms of basketry, cardboard modeling, book-
binding, rafiia and leather craft, as well as with table
decorations for festive occasions, and toys and games.

Swimming Fundamentals

By Matt Mann II and Charles C. Fries. Prentice-Hall,
Inc., New York. $2.00.

SWIMMING Is A SPORT about which many books have
been written, but there is still room for a book of this
type, which represents one man’s pattern tried and proved
through successful teaching of thousands of beginners.
The book is simple and direct, and the authors waste no
time in going to their job, that of teaching fundamentals.
The illustrations are from actual situations and show
clearly the essential body movements in the swimming
strokes that are explained.

Physical Education in the Secondary
School

Prepared by Laurentine B. Collins and Rosalind Cassidy,
in collaboration with others. Committee on Workshops.
Progressive Education Assoc1at10n, New York. $1.00.

IN THE SPRING OF 1938 the Progressive Education Asso-
ciation asked a group of sixty or more physical educa-
tion teachers and administrators to partic1pate 1n the

339

340 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

formation of a physical education committee in one of
the association’s W'orkshops. The Workshop was held at
Mills College in the summer of 1938 with a small group
of physical educators participating. Each individual
worked on his own problems as well as giving thought to
the general philosophy in the field, and the members met
regularly as a seminar group. By the end of October,
1938, five hundred c0pies of the report which came out
of the \Norkshop sessions were made available in mimeo-
graped form. Consultation conferences were held in a
number of cities, the report was evaluated, and specific
suggestions for revision were given. At the 1939 North-
west \Vorkshop at Reed College the first report was
revised. The result is a thoughtful and thought-provok-
ing report which should be exceedingly valuable in re-
building physical education programs and providing ma-
terial for conferences and study groups. The relation-
ship of physical education to recreation is discussed, and
the importance of training for the use of leisure empha-
sized. Coordination of the recreation activities of the
school and community is urged, and it is recommended
that in each school the person best suited for the respon-
sibility be selected to serve as coordinator of the recrea-
tional activities of the school.

Recreation workers as well as physical educators will
find much of interest in this report and in the carefully
selected bibliographies presented.

Adventures in Camping.

Edited by the Camp Committee of the National Fed-

eration of Settlements, Inc., 147 Avenue B, New
York. $.50.

This booklet is a collection of twelve well written
articles on camping today. A list of the titles indicates
the pertinent nature of the material discussed.— “New
Trends in Camping,” “Caddy Camps,” “Co-educational
Camping,” “Family Cottages,” “Staff Recruiting and
Training,” “Notes on Training,” “Pioneer Camping,”
“Nature Programs,” “Camp Crafts,” “Dramatics in
Camp,” “Camp Music,” “Hosteling and Gallivanting.”
While Adventures in Camping will have special signifi-
cance for settlement camp workers, it should be read by
all who are interested in camping. -All of the articles are
written in a practical. understandable manner and in
addition several of them have good bibliographies.

The Summer Camp Guide.

Porter Sargent, 11 Beacon Streét, Boston, Massa-
chusetts. $.25.

This guide, now in its fifth annual edition, is designed
to help prospective campers, their parents, teachers and
advisers in making a more discriminating choice of sum-
mer camps. Four hundred camps are listed in this book
and information is given about a number of them.

From Porter Sargent may also be secured a practical
booklet entitled Where to Buy Everything for Summer
Camps, which contains a selected list of firms specializ-
ing in supplying and serving summer camps (free).
There is also available A Brief School Guide, listing
boarding schools, day and country day schools, junior
colleges, and schools for specialized training. Price 25
cents.

Safety Education Methods—Elementary School.

Education Division. National Safety Council, Inc.,
20 North Wacker Drive, Chicago. $.50.

This booklet has been prepared primarily for the use
of elementary teachers who want to teach safety but are
at a loss to know how to go about it. Suggestions are
offered for teaching in primary, intermediate, and upper
grades, and many projects are offered. Information is
presented on such activities as junior safety councils, their
organization and programs; the school safety patrol; and
bicycle clubs and miscellaneous clubs. A standard student
accident reporting system is outlined.

Historic Quilts.

By Florence Peto. The American Historical Com-
pany, Inc., New York. $3.50.

. Not a technical study, this volume, but quilts come to
life through Old letters, diaries, and traditions. 'Out of it
all the author, widely known as lecturer and writer on
the subject, has woven the romance of the quilt. She is
concerned only slightly with the “how” of the needle-
work, but compellineg interested in the who, where.
when, why, and other circumstances woven stitch by
stitch into the family heirlooms whose history she has

traced. The resulting story is a contribution to Ameri-
can folk lore as well as folk art.

Official Rules of Softball 1940.

Spalding’s Athletic Library, No. 412. $.35.

_ C.  Brewer, Commissioner of Recreation in Detroit,
15 chairman of the committee in charge of the revision of
softball rules, and Arthur T. Noren. secretary-treasurer
of the committee and Director of Recreation in Eliza-
beth, N. J., is editor of the Guide. A number of changes
have been incorporated in the rules. The Guide contains a
number of articles on techniques, and on explanations and
interpretations of the rules, a suggested form of con-
stitution and by-laws for an amateur softball league, in-
formation on conducting tournaments, and data on de-
velopments throughout the country.

 

 

Oflicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN G. WINANT,.FirSt Vice‘PreSident
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAYUS T. KIRBY, TreaSurer

HOWARD BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTOR'S

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York. N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIs, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH; Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMHER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. 11ch03:, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. J.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

J. H. McCURDY, Springfield, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me. .

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. W'ADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

