 

Freedom

ONE OF THE MOST important freedoms is the freedom to build
one’s own life, one’s own immortal soul, freedom just to be

and to do and grow into the kind of person one wants to be.

There has to be a medium in which to grow. One wants to be
with other people, to sing with them, to put on plays with them, to
play tennis and golf, and yet in all this comradeship one wants still
to remain one’s self, not to be required consciously or unconsciously

to sign away one's freedom.

It is in recreation more than in any other 1'1e1d that free choice
counts. Men have been slaves and yet have been free in their minds.
in their poetry, in their standards of taste. We require a tradition.

a climate of freedom if we are really to be free in our “free time.”

Government and private societies, too, can give us facilities, can
give us a minimum amount of leadership, but the very essence of
recreation is to leave the individual and the group free to make inde—
pendent choices as to what is to be done. In the recreation center no
one is compelled to swim, to skate, to sing, to play the violin. The
opportunity is here—take it or leave it. Every participation is a

democratic vote for a given activity.

’

The recreation system is merely a cooperative movement to pro-
vide the setting for the people to do what they want to do in a

world of freedom.

 

SEPTEMBER I941

 

349

Sepfember -

Photo by H. Armstrong Roberts

 

 

Recreation Clubs—An Educational Experiment

 

HE RECREATION CLUBS in the Laboratory
Schools of The .University of Chicago pro—
vide the opportunity for the elementary school
._ children to participate in after-school recreation
activities under the direction and supervision of
competent leaders. The clubs have been in exis-
tence for a period of twelve years.

The purposes of the clubs are primarily recrea-
tional. The term “play clubs” which is used by the
children in speaking of their groups is indicative
of the chief purpose of the clubs from the point
of view of the boys and girls. -A1though the
activities are primarily recreational in nature,
there are frequently many favorable opportunities
for the development of intellectual and cultural
qualities in the children. One of the major pur—
poses is the increased opportunity for social and
emotional adjustment of the boys and girls.

Organization and Procedures

The organization of the clubs is based on the
grade level of 'the children. There are separate
clubs for both boys and girls in grades one. two,
three, four, five and six, making a total of twelve.
Although attendance is optional with the children,
a large percentage of them enroll in the clubs and
attend regularly. The children meet in their re-
spective groups for an hour and a half after the
dismissal of school in the afternoon on the first

This article was presented as a
paper last April before the Rec-
reation Section of the Midwest

Physical Education Convention at
Charleston. West Virginia. The
readers of Recreation will be in-
terested in knowing that the pro-
gram of the Recreation Clubs of
The University of Chicago Labora-
tory Schools has never before been
made available in printed form.

By
KATHERINE M._ RAHL

The Laboratory Schools
The University of Chicago

four days of each school week. This program is
maintained throughout the school year.

The direction of the activities of each club is
done by an adult leader. The leaders are em-
ployed on a part—time basis. They are usually col—
lege students or others Who have an interest in
children and some experience in recreation activi-
ties. Men leaders are in charge of the boys’ clubs
and women leaders direct the girls’ clubs. It is the
usual procedure for a leader to continue as
director of one group for the entire school year
unless unsatisfactory leadership or unforeseen
circumstances make it advisable to change. The
club leaders are responsible for planning and con-
ducting daily activities suited to the apparent
needs and interests of their respective groups.
Daily reports of the attendance and activities of
each group are made by the leaders and filed in
the club office. Each leader is responsible for the
general welfare of the children during periods of
recreation. School physicians are notified at once
in case of illness or injury of a child.

351

352 RECREATION CLUBS—AN EDUCATIONAL EXPERIMENT

The supervision of the club leaders is done by
a regular member of the faculty of the Labora-
tory Schools. The supervisor is in charge of the
daily administration of the program including as-
signment of play space, use of facilities and equip-
ment, and arrangement (if details necessary for
the safe and efficient management of recreation
activities. Another phase of the supervisor’s work
is to assist the leaders in understanding the chil—
dren and planning and conducting activities suit-
able for them. The supervisor observes the leaders
in their work each day and advises ways to im-
prove and enrich the program. A combination of
the direct and indirect methodology is used in
assisting the leaders depending on either the in-
dividual leader or the circumstances surrounding
a particular instance.

One or two examples might serve to illustrate
the procedure used. Although the leaders are re-
sponsible for daily plans, they are given many
indirect aids to facilitate planning. Such aid con-
sists of outlines, charts and other written materi-

als, and coaching concerning activity content and'

methods. If, however, consistent indications show
that a leader does not make use of a wide range
of activities, then the supervisor gives direct aid
by suggesting additional program materials. A
second example is illustrative of the method used
in the control of disciplinary cases. During the
play periods, when situations arise requiring dis-
ciplinary measures, the leaders are free to exer-
cise their own judgment in regard to the treat-
ment of the child or the children causing the
trouble. Indirect aid and support from the super-
visor concerning techniques to be employed are
usually sufficient. If a club leader has continual
difficulty in adjusting a child whose extraneous
behavior is a detriment to the group as a whole,
the supervisor usually makes use of the direct
method by advising the procedure to be used or
by personally dealing with the child.

The general supervision of the club leaders is
conducted in two ways: first, through the regular
weekly meetings; and second, through individual
conferences. The major purposes of the weekly
meetings are: (I) to formulate the general aims
of the program ; (2) to coordinate the procedures
used in carrying on the activities; (3) to discuss
methods of developing individual and group ad-
justment; and 4) to stimulate interest in the
broad and far-reaching aspects of modern recre-
ational leadership. Emphasis is placed on “long-
range” planning as well as immediate ways of

realizing the desired goals. Discussion takes plac
either in panel or open forum style. Occasionall
the supervisor arranges for outside speakers t
present additional viewpoints in recreation and
allied fields: The individual conferences held be-
tween the supervisor and the leaders furnish op
portunities for closer guidance depending on th
particular needs.

  
   
 
 

The Program of the Clubs

The recreation clubs program is comprised of
numerous and varied activities. Many of the ac- '
tivities selected for use are included due to their
carry-over value and consequent contribution to
the development of the child’s resourcefulness
during leisure time. Skill and knowledge acquired
in the various fields of activity within the regular 1
school curriculum are developed to a greater ex- ‘
tent in the after-school play program. Both in-
door and outdoor seasonal activities are provided
according to the judgment of the leaders and the
wishes of the boys and girls. The clubs meet out
of doors in all but inclement weather, therefore
the average club program centers around active
games.

A number of the active games and sports in-'
cluded in the program are those which have been
presented to the children in the regular daily phy-
sical education classes. The use of such vigorous
activities in the after-school play periods provides
keen exercise of the big-muscle groups of the body
and valuable practice of previously learned skills.
Relays and games of low organization are popu-
lar with all grades. Lead-up and “type” games
are adapted for use in different grades. Games of
higher organization such as softball, touch foot-
ball, soccer, hockey, volleyball, basketball and
speedball are included in modified form accord-
ing to the age and ability of the children in a
particular group. A definite progression may be
noted from grade to grade within the activities.
Other vigorous activities which are a part of the
program are swimming, apparatus, tumbling, danc-i
ing, ice skating, coasting, roller skating, and rope
jumping.

A second general type of activity included in
the recreation clubs program is that which com—
bines physical and mental stimulation and relaxa-
tion. Examples of this type are trips of all kinds,
hikes, parties, treasure hunts, home economics and
nature study. Trips are especially popular with
the children in all of the clubs. Trips to near-by
places of interest are taken on foot. Transporta-

RECREATION CLUBSWAN EDUCATIONAL EXPERIMENT 353

tion is furnished when a trip is to some distant
point. The walking trips include visits to near—by

' beaches, ponds, parks, museums, scientific plants

and laboratories, and other places of interest and
educational value. Longer trips are taken for the
purpose of acquainting the children with post of-
lices, newspaper plants, dairies, radio stations,
factories,_ and many other institutions within
society.

During the autumn and spring seasons there are
Saturday trips for the children in the three upper
grades who, with their leaders, are transported
from the city to outlying areas, including the In-
diana Sand Dunes and sections of the Illinois
State Forest Preserves. The groups spend ap-
proximately four hours hiking, climbing, explor-
ing the countryside, and playing games. These
trips bring the children directly into contact with
nature in a way conducive to the development of a
natural appreciation and familiarity with life out
of doors. Very little formal teaching is done. The
children and their leaders join together in observ-
ing the Hora and fauna and recognizing many lirst—
hand examples of nature. The leaders make use
of information supplied to them by botanists and
geologists on the special trips, developing in the
children a spontaneous and enthusiastic reaction
to the exploration of nature. Adventures in scout-
ing, lire building, outdoor cookery and care of the
camp site are greatly enjoyed by. the children.
Each group sets up a camp site and moves about
the surrounding area with the site as a central
headquarters. Hunting, hiking, and games are en-
joyed before and after the camp meal. At times
two groups arrange to meet and spend a portion

of the day together. Special days are scheduled
when all the groups par-

ticipate in athletic con—
tests and relays, nature
lore or camp craft con-
tests such as hunts, knot
tying, flapjack flipping,
and fire building.

The club program in-
cludes activities of a
third type, such as story
and poetry reading, story-
telling, doll parties, draw-
ing and painting, model-
ling, wood and metal
work, scrapbook making,
knitting, sewing, and
newspaper making.

VALUES OF PLAY CLUBS

I. Participation in many- happy hours of after-
school recreation activities by the children.

2. Leadership of elementary school children in
after-school program, thus assuring greatest
possible development within the allotted time.

3. Opportunities for participation in activities in
a number of varied tields.

4. Many opportunities for the development of
many leadership qualities in boys and girls.

5. Planning of play club experience with a view
to establishing a natural coordination between
formal classroom learning and informal activity.

6. Organization and conduct of clubs as experi-
ments in group living. As boys,and girls share
in activities they acquire greater emotional and
social adiustment as individuals and as a group.

Pupil Leadership I

Although the leaders, for the most part, guide
the planning of the program of activities, the chil-
dren are encouraged to accept responsibility for
planning and for leadership. The club leaders em-
ploy various techniques for developing such re-
sponsibility on the part of their groups. Some of
the groups elect a weekly program committee com—
posed of three or four members. The committee

plans the club activities for one week, basing the
program on the wishes of the club as a whole.
Other clubs conduct a brief meeting once each
week to discuss the activities and the daily sched—
ule. The schedules are posted in the home rooms.
One or two of the clubs which have a fairly regu—
lar and constant membership prefer to choose their
activities from day to day. All of the clubs engage
in student planning of some nature. The daily pro—
cedure in pupil leadership also varies in accord—
ance with the wishes of a group. Several groups
choose pupil leaders according to the activity for
the afternoon. Other groups designate different
members as leaders for specific days of the week.
One or two of the clubs use team or group or-
ganization and rotate the leadership in turn, shift-
ing the teams at the end of a four to six day
period. The captains or leaders are encouraged to
set standards of good sportsmanship and fair play
and to stimulate a spirit of the same behavior in
their teammates. The groups are not particularly
large, as a rule, and the children adjust readily to
the informal organization used. Student planning
and leadership aids in the development of confi—
dence in the hesitant individual and tends to bring
about increased skill in leadership on the part of

all the children.

Creating a Cooperative
Spirit

In the conducting of
the play club activities,
the leaders attempt to
create a cooperative spirit
of “give and take” among
the children. The leaders
are encouraged to de-
velop a sense of aware-
ness to the moods of the
children and to shift ac-
tivities accordingly. When
a group actually becomes

(Continued on page 404)

The "Three- ’5"

"Movies - Magazines - Mikes."
What do high school students
fhink of these three "M's"?
Older Camp Fire Girls of

America are finding the answer.

ELIEVING that it is important
B to know what boys and girls
of high school age like to do
in their leisure time, the older
Camp Fire Girls of America have
launched what is known as the
“Three-M” project —— Movies,. Magazines, and
Mikes. First they made out questionnaires which
polled 16,000 high school students in thirteen dif-
ferent states of the Union. These questionnaires
were issued and returned without signatures so
that each student might speak his mind freely.
Camp Fire groups did all the polling even where
the total amounted to 10,000 as in St. Paul. Min-
nesota, where Camp Fire membership swelled
automatically on the tide of the interest created.

To back up the information gleaned from the
polls, groups undertook research on their own.
Committees working on movies tackled theater
managers in their own towns, interviewed opera-
tors, attended previews, and analyzed pictures.
Those working on magazines headed for the news-
stands to discover what various people in their
community were buying. Some became acquainted
for the first time with the magazine room of local
libraries, while others were introduced to the roar
of rolling presses in a publishing house. Mike
reporters not only watched the inner workings of
a broadcasting station, but in presenting their own
scripts learned the significance of the red Hash
signal and the raised hand behind the glass. Some
interviewed radio stars in their vicinity:

Statistics sent to National Headquarters in
bound reports by these committees reveal that the
American girl and boy are mature thinkers—very
much “chips off the parental block” when it comes
to taste and discrimination. Like their elders, they
feel a constant pressure of time which leads them
to want a magazine whose contents they can grasp
at a glance. They believe in budgeting their radio
listening time. They want a movie that will make
them forget time altogether. Their tastes vary
slightly according to the region they are in, but on
the whole they stand as one in their desire for
good entertainment.

The great majority of high school students at-
tend the movies once a week and go primarily for
entertainment. They choose their movies by the
stars who are playing, by the titles, and by news-

354

   
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
  

paper reviews. A large numbe
are inspired to read the boo
from which a good picture i
taken. This was particularly tru
of “Gone with the Wind” an
“Rebecca.” ‘

Suggestions for the future are plentiful: mor
technicolor; from the younger ones, less love an
more adventure.

Highest ranking magazines in the poll wer
Life, Reader’s Digest, movie magazines, and Loo
in the order stated. Most of the students find th
two top rating ones in their homes, with the ad
dition of such magazines as Good Housekeeping I
Saturday Evening Post, and Ladies’ Home Journal. ,
They indicated a definite need for a popular musi-
cal magazine telling of the life of opera stars and
maestros, and from everywhere came the plea for
a magazine especially for high school girls.

When it came to radio choice, high school groups
overwhelmingly selected the Lux Radio Theater
of the Air together with Bob Hope, Henry Ald-
rich, and Jack Benny as their favorites on the air.
waves. Estimates as to the hours of listening
were as various as the programs which they!
choose, but most high school students hit a batting
average of one to two hours a day. Drama, dance
music, variety, and comedy programs are theirf
“meat” without much taste for quiz programs,
talks, or forums. They are slow to admit thad
their ideas are influenced by the radio, but they
confess an increased appreciation of classicai
music and a change in opinions in politics and
world events. ‘

Culminating local projects with “Three-M’
parties, the girls revealed their own talent for en-
tertainment in imitating stars, presenting'radid
skits, and saluting representatives of winners iii
the three fields. Enthusiastic guests ranged from
governors’ wives to town officials.

Commendation ran high among those who were
in contact with the‘ project through their ability
to help. Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, commenting on
the “Three-M” project, said: “I wish to con-
gratulate the Camp Fire Girls who carried on the
‘Three-M’ project. I have read through the win-
ning books and I think the girls have done a very
interesting piece of work. They know more about

(Continued on page 407)

 

Playground Problems

seven states, but it wasn’t until this summer

when I arranged my newest play-yard, one
containing a doll house, sandpile, wading pool,
slide, swing, rope—ladder, etc., that my troubles
began. Up to that time I’d been able to say airily
to my children, “Go out in the yard and play,”
and retire to rest, read, write or clean house. Then
I moved!

Not realizing the difference between a busy
corner in a commercial suburb and the quiet pri—
vacy of a small house in the country with an acre
of land about it, I gain had the carpenter set up
all the new play equipment in our fifty by fifty
foot backyard, expecting the five year old Emma
would soon make friends and that three or four
children would come in to play.

I was packing winter coats away on the third
Hoor of the new house, the first day the play-
ground was flnished, when Emma came to ask,
“May all the children come in
and play 3’”

“And why not i’” I demanded.
“I made it for you and your
friends. Of course, they may.”
I cheerfully went on with my

work, feeling that a playground
was the answer to a mother’s

I’VE HAD PLAYGROUNDS for my three children in

This delightful article has been re-
printed in Recreation through the
courtesy of the author and of the
editors of You and Your Child.

The article originally appeared in
the June |94| issue of this maga-

zine.which was published byConner
Publicatiohsl Harrison, New York.

By
REGINA J. 'WOODY

A mother who has had
backyard playgrounds
for her three child-

ren in seven states
tells how she solved
some of her problems

prayer. All one had to do was set up the equip—
ment and say, “Go out in the backyard and play.”
Peace, happiness and quiet would reign immediately.

But they didn’t! My present playground has
made every other playground I’ve ever owned
seem like a pleasant daydream. For three weeks
the backyard was a nightmare. Indeed, my feel-
ings that first day when I came downstairs in
answer to Emma’s ear-splitting yells were indes—
cribable. I shouldn’t have been surprised to find
her torn limb from limb, for she isn’t a child who
screams easily. Indeed, I was tempted to scream,
too, for my yard looked as if an earthquake had
ripped it asunder. It was simply swarming with
humanity. There were, to be exact, thirty-three
children in my tifty—foot space. They were all
ages and all sizes, all nationalities.

In one hour’s play those children had made my
lovely yard look like Coney Island on an August
Monday morning. The four—hundred pounds of
fine, white beach sand, put in that morning, had
been thrown all about the yard. It was in the rose
bed, in the children’s hair and eyes, in the doll
house, out on the sidewalk. The picket fence was
sagging from being climbed
upon, many of my choicest
flowers had been picked ruth-
lessly and thrown on the ground;
one large tree branch had been
broken from the trunk, its leaves
already wilting. Dozens of candy
wrappers, silver foil, gum, lolly-

355

356 PLAYGROUND PROBLEMS

pop and ice cream sticks were mixed with torn
pieces of Sunday comics. It was then I realized,
though there was no particular harm in having a
playground in one’s backyard with thirty-three
' children in it, there certainly was going to be
considerable difference in the amount of super—
vising it would take.

I contemplated the shambles in silence, and
then I coaxed my maid back into uniform. With
as much tact as getting presented at court used to
require, I ushered my daughter’s uninvited guests
outside the fence. Then I put on garden overalls,
low-heeled shoes, and girded myself for a real
bout with nature at its worst. I tacked up a small
sign, “Playground Closed for Repairs,” on the
gate, and meditated on how and what to do about
it all.

Had I failed? Must I close up my playground
as my friends had warned me I’d have to do when
I told them about my moving from the country
to the suburbs? “It’s impos-
sible to have a playground in
your backyard,” they told
me. “The children will make
horrible noises, they’ll quar—
rel, they’ll be hurt, they’ll
break your expensive equip-
ment.”

My friends were right. The
children have done all these
things. In the end, however,
I’ve won out. I’ve got my playground, the chil—
dren play peacefully, nothing is broken wilfully
and the parents and children cooperate with me.

My way is not the only way to avoid the prob-
lems all families with play equipment have to some
extent, but it is a good way and a pleasant one.
Many of my friends avoid the problem entirely
by allowing only their own children to use their
own play equipment. To me this seems almost a
worse solution than having none, for it practically
guarantees them, if they have an only child, a
selfish youngster who says repeatedly, parrot
fashion, “No, you can’t play in my yard,” and
then stands, solitary and unhappy as the other chil—
dren romp together, wondering why he is not one
of the gang.

Another neighbor, in annoyance at the noise and
destruction in his yard, took down the play equip-
ment and told his children to play with the cracks
in the sidewalks or ride their bicycles. This was
an easy answer, but hardly a reasonable one, since
that particular family had moved to the suburbs

"It you want to get a big kick out of
life in the suburbs," says Mrs? Woody.
"fix up a playground in your backyard
and let all the children come to play.
FSupervise it yourself and then look into
(twenty or thirty pairs of admiring,
awe-struck youngsters' eyes.
never be quite the same person again.
It’s the thrill of a lifetime. I know!

I've being doing it for twenty years."

    
    
 
  
  
   
  
  
  

so Billy and Jane could have a “nice place to play '
with their friends.” Billy and Jane have a lovely
place to play, but no friend may set foot in it.

Perhaps the most realistic solution is to admi
that there are difficulties in running even a small
playground and to face them squarely. You ca
then demolish your playground problems, one by
one, by getting cooperation from the parents 0
the children who play in your yard, and by bein
a wise combination of playground supervisor,
policeman, nurse and fairy-godmother.

A playground in your backyard is just one mor
problem to be solved in the raising of children
There are as many ways of solving it as there are
families, some are good, some bad, but the prob—
lems remain about the same. There is noise, de-
struction of property and danger of accident. Ex—
cessive noise can be controlled to some extent by
having regular playground hours and some grown
person about to hush too loud screams. Destruc—l
’ tion of property is negligible

when supervision is constant.

But injury? \Vell, your state

law alone can really settle

that problem for you. Here in

New Jersey, my lawyer looked'

solemn when I asked, “What,

just what are we going to do
if a child is injured on our
property?”
“Pay damages,” he said rue—
fully, “if the parents sue.” I questioned further
and looking thoughtful he dictated the followin

You'll

,letter whose legal phrases have been carefull

camouflaged, but whose important meaning still
remains:

“My dear Mr. and Mrs. Blank,” I wrote, “it is
a real pleasure to have visit and play in
Emma’s playground, but as my work often takes
me to New York, I find I am unable always to
supervise it as carefully as I should wish.

“The rather difficult question of ‘what would
happen if anyone were hurt,’ was raised when an
article, using pictures of the play-yard, appeared
in the New York H erald Tribune one Sunday, and
again when the Elizabeth Daily Journal wanted
information about the playground.

“I do want to assure you that your children are
very welcome, for Emma must share her play
equipment if she is to enjoy it herself. However,
I admit at once that neither the doctor nor I can
assume any responsibility for any visiting child’s
personal safety while on our property. The child

 

PLAYGROUND PROBLEMS 357

must come with the parents’ consent and at the

parents’ and child’s own risk.
Very sincerely,
R.  W.”
“\Vrite one to every child’s parents,” the lawyer

told me. “That ought to protect you in case of

accident.” I said, “Thank you,” and scurried

home.
As I knew no one in the neighborhood, I spent

a whole day getting the names and addresses of
the children I’d seen in the play-yard. That night
I typed twenty—seven letters and sent them off.
People came to call. They thanked me; they of-
fered to help. Already in a few months I’ve a
large group of friendly, helpful, cooperative fath-
ers and mothers. They back me to the limit and
sometimes I feel as if I were a dictator, the chil-
dren obey me so perfectly. I actually worry over
it’a little, for I don’t believe in despotism.

Every night at supper time my yard is clean,
quiet, in perfect order, and yet during play periods
it rings with lusty yells and laughter. The chil—
dren are healthy, happy, peaceful; the parents
pleased, and so, I hope that I am a benefactor,
not a menace to the neighborhood I live in.

I put up a gate and a fence when I moved in,
for the yard was on a busy traffic corner. One
child had been run over during the previous win-
ter and I wanted to forestall a similar accident. I
also have a chain and padlock, ’for I didn’t feel I
could afford too expensive hardware. At first, I

never dreamed I’d ever have to
lock up. Now, when I don’t want
the playground used, I chain it
up tight and put out a sign
“Playground Closed,” and that
is that. There is also a small,
neat sign, three by five inches,
reading, “All children entering
upon this private property and
playing on this equipment do so
at their own risk.”

If you have no fence the signs
" might be set on an easel placed
squarely in the middle of the

It is understood by the
children that they must
clean up everything be-
fore starting a new game

path or driveway leading to the playground. I
know that it isn’t really effective from a legal point
of view, but read by parents, day in and day out
as they pass, I do believe it has considerable moral
value. Small children who cannot read are told
by the older ones what is on the sign. I have yet
to hear it read, without that child’s adding, “Be
careful, you don’t want to get hurt, you know.”

At first, my yard was a mess when the children
went home each night. Then I realized that it was
really my fault. I allowed them to cut and paste,
to eat candy and lollypops,,and yet I made no
effort to teach them to pick up scraps or papers.
I put out a wire trash basket. Now, when they
cut and paste, everything must be cleaned up be fore
they start a new game. If lollypops are given out,
the basket is placed beside the giver and lollypop
papers are dropped in it as they are taken off. If
the children leave your yard in shocking condition
it may be only because they know no better. They
can be trained and, once taught, they will do their
best to, leave it tidy. Of course, no playground can
be run successfully without some supervision.
This cannot be done by remote control from the
movies. But, if you cannot be around yourself,
get some other mother to take your place.

My playground is now in use mornings from
nine to twelve, by a group of mothers who have
nursery-age toddlers. Each day a different mother
is in charge. These mornings are a joy. Only
children under six may come in then. Afternoons

 

Courtesy You and Your Child

358 PLA YGROUND PROBLEMS

between three and five, I have a high school girl'
on duty, merely to watch, rather than actually
supervise the play. She receives twenty-five cents
for two hours’ work. Her supervision makes for
peace and quiet, for the playground is then in use
by children varying in age from three to four—
teen. I settle any real disputes at her behest. My
playground is always closed at five-thirty, since
we live quite near several wholly adult families,
many of whom are gone all day. I feel that they
are entitled to quiet when they come home for
dinner. I ring a large dinner bell, I help everyone
pick up. Then I hang up the “Playground Closed”
sign, chain the gate and wave everyone good-bye.

If you’ve a play-yard in a busy section, remem-
ber three things: Clear yourself of responsibility
by writing your visitors’ parents to that effect,
have set hours, and arrange for some sort of
supervision. Don’t expect your playground to run
itself, or your maid to be playground supervisor.
If you do the one, you’ll have real trouble on your
hands; if you do the other, the ironing won’t get
done, neither will dinner be properly cooked or
served on time.

I have another sign which goes out on Sundays.
It reads, “By Invitation Only,” and has worked
well with my busy playground. When that sign is
out, children may come in by personal telephone
invitation only. Never more than one or two are
invited. It is understood that this involves no
favoritism. It is merely a method of selection. We
will try to invite every child at least once for
“invitation play” over a period of three or four
months.

Rakes, hoes, shovels, sticks, bicycles and scooters
must all be left outside the gate. Sharp instru-
ments or wheeled vehicles are taboo in my yard.
I believe in safety first. Even celluloid windmills
for the toddler are anathema, for they have a long,
sharp pin in them. Lollypops, for those under six,
unless they have soft, rope holders, must be eaten
sitting down. One child at a time is allowed on
the swing and no one may push another. The slide
is perhaps the safest thing in the yard, but if a
child goes down backward or head first, it can land
with a shattering bump. I try to encourage regu-
lar methods of doing things. Too adventurous
climbing, too much “watch me” and “I double
qlare you” can cause a kind of rivalry which may
result in a serious accident.

’ I inspect equipment once a week and, with my
son’s help, turn loose screws, hammer in protrud-
ing nails, file off a sharp edge, put on a little paint.

  
  
   
    
    
  
  
   
   
     
     
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
   

Ropes are checked for fraying and hooks fo
wear, the slide for splinters. I allow only strong
unbreakable pails and shovels in the sandpile, an
I permit no, tin, china or glass to be used in it
Milk bottles are strictly taboo. Any child throw
ing anything but a ball I send home at once.

Unbreakable dolls, sheets, blankets, dresses an
a bureau for them are standard equipment fo
Emma’s dollhouse, which is used by all the girl
of the neighborhood as “home.” Her electri
stove, the electric iron, the best china tea set an
her really lovely dolls only come out when ther
are “invited” guests. In that way there is n
breakage to cause a broken heart.

I do not hesitate to say “no” to any child, or t
ask anyone to stop what he is doing. I also sen
children home if they really misbehave. I neve
punish. I merely request them to leave and not re
turn until next open play period. There are stack
of paper cups for the “drink of water” grou
Toilet facilities are in the cellar. A high hook o
the outside of our cellar door makes possible .
one—at-a—time arrangement, which I find is reall
necessary.

When the pool is in use, no sand may be place
or thrown in it, and nothing may be floated abou
If boats are being used, no one may be in th
water at the same time. Sailing boats have shar
masts; and a tin motor boat can cut deep gashe
in satin-smooth, little feet if it sinks unnotice
Safety is more important to me than a moment’
amusement for one small child.

In our circumscribed space, ball-playing super
vision is permitted to the toddlers only. Baseba
or a real game of catch resulted in my rosebed
being trampled and my beautiful blue hydrange
blossomsa being broken off. ’

Children’ are requested to throw fruit skin
pits, candy, gum wrappers and scraps into a wir
basket in one corner by the gate. When the bi
bell rings all—out at five-thirty, everyone start
picking up. One child uncorks the pool. Emm
straightens the chairs, the high school girl puts
away big equipment, then sweeps the doll house.
As the children file out of the gate, they dr0p any,
loose papers into the basket and say good night. I
My son rakes the yard carefully and empties the
basket. This way my yard is clean, orderly and '
quiet by five-forty—five. I

I have found that playground problems are as .
important as the choosing of the right equipment. l
Children need swings and slides and sand boxes

(Continued on page 399)

i

O

, were gathered and displayed.

l

l
r

l

Plays in the Vernacular!

LLENTOWN, Pennsylvania, is
A a Pennsylvania Dutch com-

munity. Many of our
population trace their ancestors
to the countries associated with
the River Rhine — Germany,
France, or Switzerland. These
people had a dialect of their own
which they brought with them

to this country. From force of circumstances
they led a nearly isolated life for some time, and
it is not surprising that they do many things in

unique ways.
The Allen-
bown Recrea-
tion Commis- ‘
sion has-held a
folk festival
every year, and
each of them
has been devot—
ed to a specific
phase of folk
art or folklore
of our early set-
tlers. Along
with the festi-
val there has
been a display
of folk art. One
y e a r h a n d -
woven coverlets

Our school system, believing

the art of weaving should not be lost, purchased
looms and taught the children weaving. The cov-
erlets our school children have made would sur-
prise the experts who wove before them! Linen
for towels and samplers were also included. Hand-
painted chairs comprised another display. The art
teachers of our schools were on hand to copy the
designs and the children made them the follow-
ing year.

The Recreation Commission realized that there
is no more effective medium for the wit and humor
that delights our people than the writing and
acting of plays. Drama, it felt, offers the best
possible means of presenting an all-embracing
picture of the folklore and life of a people.

Allentown's Pennsylvania
Dutch citizens perpetuate
their folklore through an
original play tournament

By IRENE WELTY
Superintendent of Recreation

 

The girls demonstrated their ability to
weave as skillfully as did their ancestors

\Vith this in mind, the Com-
mission announced its plans
for 1941 at the 1940 festival.
These consisted of having the
festival of 1941 in the form of
an original play tournament in
the dialect. Plays were to be
submitted to the Commission by
February I, 1941, and the an-
nouncement of the winners would be made on
March Ist. The plays to be considered had to be
produced in May at the festival. - Six plays were
selected. Three
were produced
each night, and
two were se-
lected for pre—
sentation on the
final night. At
this time the
winner was se—
lected. There
were two sets
of judges, one
for the prelimi-
naries and the
other for the
finals.

This tourna-
ment was the
first in local
history, and the
first in the history of any of
the Pennsylvania Dutch coun—
ties. The vepture was highly successful. Aside
from the value of the plays, our people came to
realize that there are great values in the distinct
culture developed here in the eastern counties of
Pennsylvania. It is little wonder that stylists, de-
signers and interior decorators are drawing upon
our folk art for new ideas in dress, interior
decorationshfurniture, and other household‘ equip-
ment.

The stage settings for the plays were unique and
probably could not be found anywhere else in the
country. Corner cupboards, hand-painted rocking
chairs, water sinks, old calendars, and milk-white
dishes were in evidence, and they proved excellent
backgrounds for characters in authentic clothing.

359

360 PLAYS IN THE VERNACULAR!

Old traditions and customs were depicted, such
as consulting the calendar for the setting of eggs;
the use of herbs for medicine; the piercing of a
girl’s ears by her grandmother and the insertion
of strings so that she could wear drop earrings;
and putting a baby through a horse’s collar so that
it will not be liver-grown. These were just a few
of the traditions that were introduced.

The indoor and outdoor games, the dances,
songs, and ballads sung in the dialect took our
audience back to the days when they were young,
and they ,heard again the songs their grandmoth—
ers had sung to them.

The Pennsylvania Dutch people are a thrifty,
happy people. They are fun—loving, and their
laughter is spontaneous. This characteristic was
marked with the characters on the stage and also
with our Pennsylvania Dutch audience who
greatly enjoyed seeing themselves or their grand-
parents depicted in the age when irons had to be
heated on the stove or in the days when every
woman had one good dress made of black taffeta
which she wore only to church, weddings, and
funerals.

Our Pennsylvania Dutch people are true Ameri-
cans. They have fought for America and their
farms have helped feed America through every
war. When Lincoln made his historic call for
75,000 volunteers on April 15, 1861, the Allen
Infantry from Allentown left for Washington on
April 17th and were among the first to arrive.
By congressional action they were honored with

 

- privilege of living in a land of freedom was beau-

the title' of “The First Defenders.” This patriotic
attitude and the appreciation of our people of the

   

tifully portrayed in one of the plays.

The display this year consisted of articles made
by the school children. All were of Pennsylvania
Dutch design. There were woven coverlets, car-
pets, linen towels, samplers, art designs, and clay
models. A schoolroom loom was brought to the
lobby of the high school, and eleven and twelve
year old girls sat weaving a beautiful coverlet.
The pleasure the old people got from seeing these
children keep alive an art which belonged to them
was a treat to see.

This year’s tournament was a beginning. We
are looking forward to its continuance and expect
the number of plays to be accepted next year to
be larger. Through this activity we hope to keep
alive for posterity our dialect, our folklore, art,
and traditions.

The following extracts from a personal letter
may recall similar experiences to the minds of all
who have struggled with the problems involved in
putting on plays with amateur groups:

I have the Mexican group this year, so for our
Christmas program we prepared a play called “A
Mexican Christmas” with Mexican children in the
leading roles. They were pleased and interested
but were so unreliable that I was in despair most
of the time. They would know their parts one day
and the next day would not remember anything.
They would promise to
bring certain “properties”
and never think of them
again until time to use
them.

There was a dance in.
the play called “The Dance
of the Sombrero” which
the children had learned
perfectly; then one of the
girls broke the record,
and we could not find
another one in town. We
had to change the dance

(Continued on page 410)

Actors in the play—
"Die Nachbers Lehna"

I.
l

"Time on Their Hands"

A few facts taken from the Report on
Leisure, Recreation and Young People

HE POINT OF VIEW in this
Treport is that in all rec-
reation planning for youth
the determining factor should
be the needs ‘of young people
themselves, that the greatest
possible use should be made
of existing facilities, that
broad-scale recreational plan-
ning is required at every level
of recreation administration.
Recreation is defined as what a person finds
pleasure in doing when he is not paid for it and
does not feel any other kind of obligation to do it.
“Inevitany the development of recreation in the
modern world will tend more and more to be along
creative lines. It is true that a few fortunate peo-
ple find their work so absorbing that they are not
conscious of a need for outside interests.”

From the point of view of the individual, rec-
reation is a thing to be regarded as good in itself,
worthy of being sought for its own sake or for
man’s sake. The primary virtue of recreation is
not any of its various utilitarian values but its
direct and immediate effect of increasing the
stature of human life.

Recreation has value in the promotion of mar-
riage. Another social effect of recreation, pri-
marily evident among youth, is the reduction of
delinquency. Recreation can and should be put to
use in the mitigation of the effects of unemploy-
ment. There is for the nation as a whole the pre-
paredness value of recreation. No element is more
important in national defense than the quality of
the individuals who bear the responsibility for
that defense.

Youth Needs Recreation

The survey of the youth of New York City
conducted in 1935 by the Welfare Council of New
York concluded that only one boy in five and one
girl in ten had a satisfactory leisure life. Young

i People would rather participate in organized play

The Report on Leisure. Recreation and
Young People. which was recently ~pub-
Iished under the titleI Time on Their
Hands, was prepared for the American
Youth Commission by C. Gilbert Wrenn
and D. L. Harley. It is concerned pri-
marily with young people between the
ages of l6 and 25. The reportI in book
formI is obtainable from the Ameri-
can Council on EducationI 74-4 Jack-
son Place. WashingtonI D. C. $2.00.

than hang around the pool
hall; they would rather get
into clubs than into trouble
with their elders. Questions
were asked of I 3,000 Mary-
land youth. Their answers
Were specific. They wanted
more parks and playgrounds;
meeting places where they
could have group games,
music, handicrafts, dramatics,
and discussion groups; swimming pools; organized
sports. Asked what the community could do to
keep young people out of trouble, three-fifths of
them said “provide more recreation facilities and
leadership.”

In a study conducted by the American Youth
Commission in Dallas, Texas, the following groups
of youth were found to lack regular physical rec-
reation: 20 per cent of single boys and young men,
50 per cent of married boys and young men, 62
per cent of single girls, and 76 per cent of mar-
ried girls. These percentages accounted for half
of all young people between I6 and 24 included
in the study.

The opportunity for athletic participation that
school offers the average young person has been
comparatively small. The youngster who would
benefit most from practice in games and sports is
not likely to add to the school’s prestige on the
athletic held and has consequently been neglected.

Hardly any community offers sufficient oppor-
tunities for public recreation to meet the need.
Adolescent youth simply stand around street cor-
ners or'get together in pool rooms or bowling
alleys. Lacking the means of doing things that
would relase their physical energy, they gradually
accustom themselves to doing nothing. A young
man had recently been discharged from prison and
shortly afterwards held up a policeman at the
point of a pistol. His explanation was: “I want to
go back to Sing Sing. Down here I’m just a burn,
but up there I was on the ball team.”

, 361

362 “TIME ON THEIR HANDS”

All students of mental hygiene recognize that
youth need creative activities. The Regents’ In-
quiry in New York State reported that 45 per cent
of high school graduates were without hobbies.
In the American Youth Commission’s Dallas study
only 9 per cent of the youth mentioned hobbies or
cultural activities as among their three principle
leisure-time activities.

A striking inference in a recent study is that
young people engage so extensively in solitary
recreational activities because there is little else
available. In a survey of 8,000 girls in California
it was reported that only I 5 per cent were mem-
bers of clubs. In a rural community of the Mid-
west, 60 per cent of the youth said they would
like to meet other young people of both sexes at
some central spot for recreation and discussion.

The National Resources Committee in a study
of consumer purchases found that in the year
1935-36 the average family spent $152 on its lei-
sure. However, the lowest third of the families,
ranked by income, spent only $31 for these pur-
poses. Millions of American youth are receiving
short rations of recreation services and supplies.
They do not have what is regarded as a normal
part of the leisure environment of average young
people. A large part of our youth urgently require
assistance to overcome the handicap imposed upon
them.

There is an urgent need for more education and
recreation programs designed for the older ado-
lescent. Delinquency rates show the period from
16 on to adulthood to be a most critical time.

There is need to organize community support
for good movies for youth. Local endorsement of
good movies as they are produced and as they are
exhibited in local theaters can be arranged through
all sorts of community agencies.

In the average home the radio is turned on five
hours daily. The Regents’ Inquiry in New York
State shows that high school youth listen to the
radio nearly two hours a day. The real danger is
probably not that programs will go over the heads
of listeners but that they will perpetuate in adults
the mental immaturity so characteristic of thirteen-
year-olds at whom they so often seem to aim.

Young people spend a large part of their leisure
in reading. In St. Louis, a
record kept of books bor-
rowed by young people in
their twenties from public
libraries and from friends
showed two out of three to be
fiction. In the American Youth

"Recreation implies freedom of choice
and action and has the quality of bring-
ing immediate personal satisfaction. It

is sought for its own sake. Its direct
and immediate values are as important

as the indirect benefits it confers."

   
  
   
 
   
    
  
  
   
    
   
    
    
  
   

Commission’s Muncie study, only 7 per cent
fiction books read by youth were rated as superio
48 per cent medium, 45,per cent inferior qualit
In 1935 an inquiry among the students of t
seventy-two emergency junior colleges in Oh
showed that they had read an average of two a
a half books during the previous year. In Hou
ton, Texas, one-fourth of the out-of-school you
had read no books during the previous year. T
St. Louis investigation of the reading of you
adults found more than three-fourths of all th
reading matter from any source was magazines.

Youth has a vital need for recreation. It is
need that for the most part is still unmet.

Supplying the means of recreation and gui
ance in their use has become an accepted functi
of all levels of government.

How Shall We Meet the Need?

The growth of cities makes it urgent that \
take special steps to insure every young person
the United States a chance to obtain adequ
recreation. A half century ago nearly two-thir
of the people lived in the open country or in V1l
lages. In 1940, 57 per cent of the population was
urban. There has been a growth of urban-mind-
edness even among rural people. The urbanizati
has made the recreational plight of village ya;

even worse than that of youth on farms.

Schools should do more than they usually 0
to meet the leisure-time needs of the youth th v
enroll. One of the most obvious needs is that t
schools should maintain an interest in the welf e
of their former students, whether graduates
not. There is every reason why young peo
should not be dropped cold when they leave scho 1

Public libraries have two shortcomings. Th
are not enough of them, and those we have do
make themselves sufficiently attractive to you
In an American Youth Commission Marylan
study it was found that half the American youth
having library facilities available to them did no
use these libraries. In the Dallas study 78 pe
cent of the white youth had not used a public li-
brary in the month preceding the interview. I
Detroit a youth survey showed that 40 per cent 0
the young people 16-24 di
not make even occasional us
of a public library. In a Chi-
cago study the pub '
ries were found to be fur-
nishing less than six per cen
of the reading matter or

H
H
C
.—n
H
O"
'1
$13

1

“TIME ON THEIR HANDS” 363

young adults in their twen-
ties. The present amount
jpent for library service
or the entire country is
37 cents per capita. It is 59
tents for those portions.of
(‘16 country that actually
ave library service. In
Qumber of books, a stan-.
ldard is recommended of
om one and one-half to
airee books per capita, de—
pending on the size of the
community. In practice, the
median in cities over
00,000 p0pulation is less
Elan one volume per capita.
Ihenever possible, a li-
ary should remain open
all evening, yet the com-
on closing hour is nine
clock. In the Tennessee
alley the library leaves ' 
books all over the com-
unity, wherever people are likely to see them.
Perhaps the most important fact about public
creation programs is that there are so few of
em. Consider, for example, the population range
0m 10,000 to 50,000. It contains a large and
portant group of American cities—nearly 800
number. Yet in 1938 approximately half of
ese cities were not known to have any local au-
rity, public or private, conducting a recreation
gram for the community, with the exception
emergency activities undertaken with the aid of
W PA. The National Recreation Association
'mates that communities where reasonably ade—
ate programs of public recreation are in opera-
t n probably contain well under a fifth of our
ple.

   
   
 
    
  
  
  

r strict the freedom essential to the proper func-
ti ning and continued growth of public recreation.
No school board should assume responsibility for
community recreation unless its own educational
philosophy is as realistic as that underlying modern
recreation practice. There must be no lessening
of the emphasis that recreation places upon learn-
ing through doing and upon participation because
of enjoyment rather than for the sake of “marks”
or external rewards. Activities must continue to
arise out of individual interests, creative values
must retain their primary importance, and com-

A

It is important that nothing be done that would -

 

—-— c- Q O O ‘_

 

Courtesy Southern Illinois Normal University

There is no type of recreation less
in need of justification than outdoor
games. sports and similar pastimes

pulsion must have no place in the program. Of
course many progressive schools accept these prin-
ciples as part of their own educational philosophy-
and incorporate them as far as possible in their
practice. We must see that they are accepted by
any school that undertakes a major responsibility
for community recreation.

Nearly one-fourth of all community chest funds,
it is estimated, are used for some kind of leisure
service. '

The conception of recreation as a normal, en-
joyable and important part of people’s lives rather
than as a means of cultivating desirable charac—
teristics or suppressing undesirable tendencies
has been so slow in gaining ground that there is
almost no private organization in the community
which bases its philosophy upon it.

The adult-led independent community organiza-
tions for youth are all relatively ineffective in
reaching rural youth. In the second place, it is
apparent that none of these organizations reach
many older youth. In the third place, relatively
few youth on the low income levels are being
reached. Finally, it can be said of most adult—led
youth membership organizations that they have

364 “TIME ON THEIR HANDS”

suffered from too detailed management by their
adult leaders. Many youth organizations give the
impression of continuing to fall short of their full
potentialities partly through failure to let their
young members have the invaluable experience of
managing their own affairs With the least possible
interference from adults. A development of the
highest significance is the appearance among char-
acter-building agencies of a new capacity for self-
criticism.

An appeal to provide recreation facilities for
youth is likely to meet with greater favor from
civic groups if emphasis is laid upon the probable
reduction of delinquency, the saving in the cost of
law enforcement, and so on. These, however, are
not the true reasons why young people should
have an opportunity for wholesome play and self-
improvement. They can be advanced for what
they are worth when they seem likely to yield
results, but no adequate or
lasting program for young
pe0ple will be developed
from negative arguments.
Every effort should be made
to overcome the commu-
nity’s apathy toward the sit—-
uation of its ordinary, un-
 'exceptional young people
and to convince it of the
necessity of affording ‘phy-
sical and cultural advantages
to the normal boys and girls who have left school.

In a rural county surveyed in a midwestern
state, 92 per cent of the youth reported they would
like to belong to a young people’s organization.
Yet 44 per cent of the youth stated there was no
organization available to them. One thing that
stands out in reviewing the private organizations
of the community whose interests include a con-
cern for the recreational life of young people is
the enormous amount of good will and voluntary
effort represented by these agencies. 147,000 un-
paid adult leaders of 4-H clubs and more than
300,000 Scout leaders, many of whom serve an
average of eight hours a Week, are only two of
many impressive examples of this spirit of com-
munity enterprise.

The sum of all the efforts of private organiza-
tions working to improve the uses to which youth
put their leisure is notably inadequate to meet the
need for. the kind of services that are being
supplied.

According to the generally recognized practice,

"It is easier to leave youth to find their
own solitary recreation than to plan a bal-
anced program of activities involving crea-
tive. social. and physical values. Because
our vision has been limited. we have al-
lowed our youth to depend too largely upon
spectator sportsl reading. movies' and the
radio for their recreation. These are all
worth-while activities in reasonable amountsl
but when taken as a steady diet they
can bring on recreational malnutrition."

  
   
  
  
       
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
     
   
   
  

laymen should take a prominent part in the con

trol of the program. This is important because:

It will keep the program closer to community need
It will make financial support easier to obtain.
It will encourage volunteer leadership to develop.

The policy of lay participation in control is a
vocated by the National Recreation Associatio
and has consistently been applied by profession
recreation leaders everywhere. The history 0
public education in America provides evidence u
the wisdom of this practice. In recreation as i
education there is need for a clear-cut distinctio
between the policy-making responsibilities of th
board of control and the executive functions a
the professional worker or administrator.

In developing cooperation in the service of a ..
youth, the participation of young people them-
selves should be enlisted.

In one seventh-grade group the problem of re -

reation in the communiflr
was being discussed. Som-
one asked what the boys a
girls actually did with the
time out of school. A su
vey of the activities of t
pupils in the grade led to
survey of the activities
their schoolmates. Th
found that many atten
motion picture shows f
quently, others less f
quently because _of parental policy or lack of fun
others read, went driving with the family, pla
games with their friends, and engaged in ot
activities, but the group came to the conclusi
that some inexpensive recreational facility sho
be provided in their community. After explori
various possibilities, they decided that a skati
rink would meet the need.

The question of financing the building of t ‘
rink arose. Immediately the group began est -’
mating the size necessary for the number of chil-
dren to be accommodated, the availability of a lot,
the cost of the lumber, thenecessary finishing of
the Hoor, and other details.

After the findings of the survey were in hand
and the estimates completed, some means of pro-
viding the rink had to be found. It was decided
that it should be a community affair and, there-
fore, that the mayor was the proper person to
interview. With their prepared data a commit-
tee visited the mayor and asked him what possi—
bilities he saw for a town appropriation for

'\

“TIME ON THEIR HANDS” 365

uilding the rink. He was enthusiastic and appre-
iative of the suggestions from the boys and girls
nd promised his cooperation. The investigation
f the pupils and their earnestness in solving this
roblem became community news. Commercial
7 terests sensed the possibilities of the need and
.oon three skating rinks were built. At the pres-
int time skating is available for the payment of a
i’mall sum.

' In Dowagiac, Michigan, the youth themselves,
pon being asked, said they would like to have a
ecreation center for after—school hours, with
acilities for ping-pong, pool, and billiards. They
lso wanted dancing lessons and opportunities for
ocial dancing. There was an unexpected request
or some sort of forum with speakers and dis—
ussions.

Major Objectives for Recreation Planning

A. Accept recreation as a major youth need, para-

lling education and em—
loyment in importance, a

 

Young people need social recreation just as
certainly as they need creative recreation

necessity in a democracy, and vital to adequate
planning for national security.

B. Encourage each local community‘to accept the
primary responsibility for providing an adequate
leisure-time program for its own youth.

C. Strengthen “and expand the community’s pro—
vision for organized recreation.

D. Recognize the close relationship between edu—
cation and recreation and bring the schools to ac-
cept a major responsibility for the recreation of
youth and of the whole family.

E. Improve the recreational services that can be
rendered youth by organized action at the state
level.

P. Conserve the recreational values of public lands,
increase their extent, render them accessible to
larger nUmbers of people, and develop their full
recreational potentialities.

G. Plan for the development of all the recreational
resources of the nation; coordinate present federal
recreation services and clari—
fy their future status.

 

Courtesy Madison Square Boys” Club. New York City

366

Recommendations

A. Accept recreation as a major youth need, paral-
leling education and employment in importance,
-a necessity in a democracy, and vital to adequate

planning for national security.

To this end it is recommended that:

1. Recreation be acknowledged as good in itself and
worthy of being sought for the satisfaction it gives.

2. Recreation be understood to have a further ultili—
tarian value to the individual in contributing to his
mental health and physical fitness and to his social
competence, and in providing him with creative and
cultural experiences.

3. Recreation be understood to 'be of value to society
in that the welfare of society is the sum of the wel-
fare of its members and also that it promotes mar—
riage, reduces delinquency, mitigates the effects of
unemployment, and heightens national strength and

security.

4. The part of our recreation-a1 expenditure absorbed
by commercial interests be recognized as dispropor-
tionate to the role these agencies play in promoting
the worth-while use of leisure, and that the scope of
nonprofit-seeking recreation, private as well as pub-
lic, ought therefore to be expanded.

B. Encourage each local community to accept the
primary responsibility for providing an ade—
quate leisure-time program for its own youth.

The following recommendations are made:

1. Each community should make a study of the recrea-
tional needs of its youth, using accepted survey
techniques to determine which types of recreational
need are uppermost. The study may be part of a
larger investigation of the condition and needs of its
young people. ‘

2. A survey of existing recreation programs and of
community recreation facilities ought also to be made.

3. The 'unused resources of the community, both in
material and in personnel, should be studied to de-
termine which types of volunteer programs can be
most readily developed.

4. A long-range recreation program for the youth of
the community ought to be formulated,’ particular
care being taken that (a) it meets the situation
revealed in the survey of youth recreation needs;
(b) adequate responsibility is accepted by the pub-
lic schools; and (c) all available sources of support
are drawn upon, including volunteer leadership,
state and federal advisory services, and, where ap-
propriate, outside financial assistance.

5. This program should endeavor to raise at least to
an acceptable minimum the recreation facilities
available to such of the following disadvantaged
groups as may be included in the community: rural
youth, youth of low-income families, girls, older
adolescents, Negro youth, and other minority races.

“TIME ON THEIR HANDS”

6. The autonomy of existing organizations ought to

C.

To
1

2

. Public library service must be organized in or

. Public libraries ought to pay more attention to at.

. The important functions and unique advantages '

  
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
 
   
   
 
 
 
  

preserved so far as may be consistent with the p
ciple that the recreational needs of no class of yo
people shall be neglected.

Youth "should 'be given a share in community p
ning for recreation, either through direct repr
tation upon all major boards and councils or thr
special advisory committees of young pe0ple.

“Cellar clubs” might well be furnished with
guidance and such other minimum assistance as
mitigate the diiiiculties of these organizations
help to develop their potential contribution t
leisure life of young pe0ple.

Strengthen and expand the community’s
vision for organized recreation.

accomplish this objective:

. Cities should create or designate a suitable auth
to organize and administer public recreation.

. Every effort should be made to meet the stan
recommended 'by the National Recreation Associ
with reference to the facilities and financial sup
of public recreation programs; in particular,
dearth of children’s playgrounds and playfi 3
should be remedied.

Control of the public program of recreation o
to rest primarily in lay hands, but administra ve

workers under proper supervision. '

Communities should take an active interest in
professional education and training of their rec
tion workers of all grades; the possibility of 0
ing professional training for employment in c
mercial recreation might also be investigated.

tended to communities where it is not now avail
meeting as nearly as possible standards of sup
recommended by the American Library Associa

tracting and holding the interest of young p 1'
and adopt the administrative practices which v
proved effective toward this end.

private agencies with recreational interests shoul '
be kept clearly in mind and the immense amount I
good will and voluntary effort they represent shoul
be recognized. I

The need for voluntary support of private agenci
ought not to be obscured by the necessary expansi
of tax-supported recreational services; private age
cies should be urged to coordinate their efforts a
simplify their structure, in order that they may mOI
effectively meet the recreational needs of youth an
that they may be better understood by the public. 4;

Private agencies should redouble their efforts
bring leisure services to the great mass of you
people in the underprivileged sections of our populi
tion, with whom they may have had relatively litt
contact.

l
l

Successful
Student
Baseball

By
RICHARD L. BEYER

 

for the whole league for an entire season.

And speaking of averages, the league has a
large bulletin board that fairly groans with sta-
tistical information—information which is kept
up—to-date and which is changed every morning.
Those newspapers that publish lists of “The Five
Leading Hitters” for the major leagues each day
have nothing on Southern! It will list on its bul-
letin board the first fifteen hitters, leading pitch-
ers, information on the strikeout race (concerning
which there is much local interest), and sometimes
fielding data. Of course this takes considerable
time for the statistician, but he gets his reward
when he posts the averages and notices the eager-
ness with which players and spectators consume
the latest information. Players have their interest
in competition increased when they realize that
the management of the league is handling the
circuit with care and seriousness. Indeed, one of
the weaknesses of intramural sports in our high
schools and colleges is trace-
able to the tendency of such
institutions to treat such ac-
tivities as something distinctly
secondary and inferior to

HE SOUTHERN ILLINOIS Normal University in
Carbondale is the third largest teachers’ col-
lege in the United States. It is distinguished

.r or many reasons, one of these being a sane, com-

.rehensive athletic program. One of the features
I f this program is the intramural baseball league,
ll student activity which has been so successful
4- hat it has commanded favorable attention in many
" ewspapers in the Middle West, and has elicited
[inquiries as to its nature from several interested
' olleges in the Central States. Just recently an
j ducational magazine, in describing the attractions

'0 be found at forthcoming summer sessions at
,' 'arious American colleges listed the baseball
I eague at S.I.N.U. as one of them. One wonders
o ow many other colleges can boast of similar ac-
! ivities which actually rank as drawing cards for
he institution. '

First of all, S.I.N.U. takes its intramural base-
all league seriously. All games are carefully cov-
red by competent scorers. No
ne is assigned to the job of
corer until he clearly demon-
trates that he is equipped to
0 an accurate, conscientious

After observing tor a decade the base-
ball program at Southern Illinois Nor-
mal University, Mr. Beyer has reached
the conclusion that its phenomenal suc-

iece of work. It is recog-
a ized that an inaccurate rec-
rd of just one game in the
eventy games or thereabouts
hat are scheduled could pre-
ent the compiling of averages

 

cess has not been accidental. In- this
article he lists some of the practices
which have been responsible for the in-
terest on the part of the students. and
suggests some of them may be worthy of
adoption not only by other colleges but
by high schools. clubs, and playgrounds.

varsity athletics. Southern
has been fortunate in that its
college weekly paper gives
elaborate coverage to' the stu~
dent baseball league. It runs
full stories, averages, pictures,

367

368 SUCCESSFUL STUDENT BASEBALL

and even box scores. Thus, boys—scores of them
who aren’t on the varsity teams—occasionally
manage to enjoy a little publicity and that uni-
versally pleasant sensation that comes with seeing
one’s name in print.

Directors of intramural baseball leagues have
long been faced with the problem of having teams
of approximately equal strength compete. When
there is a heavy concentration of playing strength
on a few teams, an unbalanced circuit is the result.
Games are decided by one—sided scores, and the
pleasure of competition disappears. Many years
ago at S.I.N.U. one of these powerhouse teams
crushed an opponent by a 30—0 score in a game
that was prudently called off at the end of three
innings. Little wonder that the defeated team
(they dared to call themselves the Tigers) lost
heart and presently dropped from the league. It
is understandable why there would be scant enjoy-
ment playing in a league in which there was such
a"great difference in the strength of the teams.

The new Southern plan has eliminated situations
such as those mentioned, and it is now rare to find
lop-sided scores. How has this been achieved?
First of all, the college permits the forming of two
kinds of teams. There is the so-called “Organiza-
tion” team. Any fraternity, club, rooming house,
student cooperative, or literary society may enter
in the league a team of sixteen men, all of whom
are bona fide members of the given organization.
Most student societies will have a few good ball
players, a number of fair ones, and “some guys
called Joe.” Such teams will probably be neither
unduly strong nor unduly weak, but will give a
good performance in league play. Then there are
the so-called “nucleus” teams. Five players—
usually good, experienced players—get together
and’form the nucleus of a club. The remaining
membership on these “nucleus” teams is decided
by their managers, who draw in rotation all the
other men in college who want to play baseball,
and who are not affiliated with one of the “Or-
ganization” teams or one of the nuclei. Thus, the
“nucleus” team, like the “Organization” team, will
have a range of talent. The plan has worked well,
and there have been no instances of discouraged,
badly beaten ball clubs forfeiting their way out
of the league.

Another method that has been used to assure
close, interesting competition has been the intro-
duction of the Shaughnessy play-off plan. Read-
ers of this magazine are undoubtedly acquainted
with the merits of this system which is employed

  
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
    
    
 
   
  
 
 
    
 
  
   
    
  

in some of the minor leagues, and they need
brief mention here. Suffice to say that at the
of the regular season the team that finishes at
top of the league meets Team No. 3. Team N
will face Team No. 4. These games constitu
kind of semi-final round, and the winners of
encounter each other in the grand finale of th
son. Ordinarily there is so much interest '
play-off games that they constitute an imp
feature of Commencement week at the c
An argument in favor of the play-off plan i
a team that gets off to a poor start can rall
still have a chance at the title. Moreover, I
and spectator interest is maintained even i
club should‘ get an advantage in the team stan
After all, it might get bumped in the play-o

Other Features of the Plan

Other features of the S.I.N.U. baseball pl
as follows:

\

(I) All teams must have rosters of sixteei
It has been found that with fewer playe
team there might be occasions when a ma
couldn’t assemble enough men for a game .
forfeiture would result. If a student team
many more than sixteen men it might not be i
sible to use all of them regularly. That we
defeat one of the goals of the baseball league.

(2) Forfeited games are the ruination of
athletic league. Southern has this rule—-——one 7
feited game, and a team must withdraw from
league. This encourages managers and player
take scheduled games seriously and to be pre
for competition, if it is at all possible.

(3) The league tries to get its teams to n
serious, responsible athletes as their mana
Good managers will get their players to repor at
time for games. They will try to use as m
players as possible in each game.

(4) Few changes are made in the official sc I
ule of games which is composed week by wk
Once the schedule is announced it is expected a
games will be played as arranged. One reason 01
the garbling of student baseball leagues is lac 0
planning the schedules, and the postponing 0
games once they have been announced. Not 11
but confusion can come from this.

All in all, intramural baseball can be a pk:an
experience for the young men in college and h g
school, and many believe that Southern Illinoi
Normal University has developed a successful ant
workable plan for its students.

Creative Crafts for Recreation

 
  
  
   
   
    
 
 
  
  
  
   

 

l

Courtesy Madison Square Boys’ Club, New York City

HE GROWTH OF LEISURE, the extended unem-
ployment of youth, and the tremendous in-
crease of delinquency in the ’teen age, have
. resented a challenge in meeting the recreational
nd adjustment problems of youth. Central Com-
unity House, a neighborhood center in Colum-
us, Ohio, was established in an area with a very
- igh delinquency rate, and one of the methods for
' eeting this challenge was the use of a creative
rafts program. An old house was purchased and
crafts shop was established in the basement.
he usual problems—lack of funds, limited space,
quipznent and material—had to be solved.

These obstacles, however, were overcome by
aginative, skilled leadership so vitally important
developing a crafts program. It is often as-
umed that anyone can‘ be a crafts worker simply
ecause he has some knowledge of tools; this is
ne of the serious fallacies in the recreation field.
.t is of paramount importance that the craft
orker have artistic skills, a knowledge of the
chnique of informal education, and a personality
’ apable of stimulating youngsters without impos-
’ g his own patterns and ideas upon the work that
being created. Perhaps the most important

 

By LOUIS W. KOLAKOSKI

Executive Director
Central Community House

Columbus. Ohio

This article was awarded first place in
the annual Joseph Lee Memorial Contest
for Recreation Literature conducted for

the first time last year by the Society
of Recreation Workers of America

quality in a crafts leader is the investigating type
of mind and the desire to make new things. Such
a leader can stimulate by questions and by inspir-
ation rather than by direct instruction.

Since we had a leader of this type, lack of space
became secondary. \Nhat space we had was care-
fully utilized for the purpose of keeping machinery
and tools in first class condition in order that they
would give a hundred per cent service. It is im-
portant to have enough tools so that each young-
ster can work at something. Outdoor space, too,
can be utilized in some crafts, such as basketry,
weaving, leather work, that do not require spe-
cific types of machinery; thus, the children may
enjoy the sunshine and fresh air. I

Availability of material depends upon the facili-
ties of a program. A knowledge of material and
its uses is the keystone to the development of a
sound art and craft class. It is our purpose to
discuss types of materials, techniques for its pre-
paration, and use in developing creative arts.

Craft Supplies

Many people have asked, “How do you get
your supplies and what do you use?” The answer
is that the worker must have ingenuity and use
inexpensive or waste materials. The first prin-
ciple is to study the community in order to
evaluate its resources. In and around Columbus,
Ohio, there are available natural clay, corn cobs,
corn husks, honeysuckle vine, dried Iris, linole-
um samples, leather scraps, lumber scraps, oil
cloth samples, rags, sawdust, stone, tin scraps,
wallpaper samples and countless other waste ma-
terials that can be used for a crafts program. The

369

370 CREATIVE CRAFTS FOR RECREATION

use of these materials is an object lesson for the
underprivileged youngsters in developing re-
sourcefulness and ingenuity.

A knowledge of the techniques for the use of
available scrap and waste materials is the first
step in the development of an artistic crafts pro-
gram. As a general principle, functional use of
resources and the making of utilitarian objects
should be the broad objective.

Using Available Material

Our purpose here is to discuss the techniques
by means of which we can achieve such a goal.

Natural clay that is obtained from clay banks is
gathered in sacks and screened in order to remove
dirt,” stone, and other impurities that may be in
the clay. After this screening, the clay is mixed
with water in a batter, the consistency of dough,
which is pliable but not too stiff. This batter is
then placed in crocks or old lard cans and is cov-
ered with a wet cloth to keep it from drying out.
It is then available for use either in the making of
a ceramic or sculptured piece.

Almost anyone, from the very small child to the
adult, enjoys clay modeling. There is a fascina—
tion about rolling a piece of clay into a long round
coil and then shaping it into a piece of pottery.

Much of the work can be done entirely by hand
without the use of a wheel. At Central Commu-
nity House we have set up a small hand wheel out
of scrap lumber on which the child can work. If
a kiln is not available, the ware can be thoroughly
dried and then painted after the pattern of ancient
Indian potters and some very striking results
can be obtained. The craft shop that can obtain
the use of a kiln can carry out the complete ce-

ramic process and experiment with glazes, molds,
and all of the varied forms possible.

Corn cobs are available in almost any part of
the United States. The manufacturer of the old
corn-cob pipe knows its uses, but as a craft ma-
terial for a center pressed for funds its varied
possibilities have not been appreciated. One of its
simplest uses is for handles on letter openers. Any
number of designs can be worked out with this
versatile, interesting natural material. The most
important factors in its use are careful drying,
sanding, polishing, shellacing and varnishing, and
shaping. The variety of possibilities for use is
dependent entirely upon the imagination of the
crafts person.

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  

Dolls characterizing the period of early Ameri-
can history can be made from corn stalks and the
corn silk makes excellent hair. These are fun for
the youngsters.

Corn husks make excellent weaving material
Field corn is more satisfactory than sweet corn
because it has a greater fibre strength. The method
for preparation is first to strip the husks into the
size of the desired material. This should be care-
fully dried and all wormy husks should be dis-
carded. When dry, this material is ready for use
in the making of modernistic purses, baskets
necklaces, and many other interesting and usefu
objects.

Seeds. Today the modern vogue for costum
jewelry utilizes natural materials such as corn
pumpkin, watermelon, bean and other seeds. Thes
materials are available in most communities an
require little preparation beyond drying. Th
process of making jewelry and designs involve
first a drawing of the pattern of the object an
then stringing the various combinations of seed
Painting completes the task and provides t
youngster with the most modern of costum
jewelry. History has a tendency to repeat itself fo
this was, an ancient art among the primitive tribes.

Honeysuckle vines grow particularly in the sout
and every year they need to be trimmed and cu
and the cuttings from these vines can be used i
the making of baskets. The stems should be boile
for about two hours until the bark peels readil
and when this is partly dried it is ready for us
Out of the honeysuckle vine delicately woven ba
kets can be made because it has fibre strengt
although it is thin and pliable.

Dried iris stalks comprise another material avai
able for basketry and weaving. The stalk shoul
be cut after the flower is through blooming. T
cutting of the stalks only strengthens the develoi
ment of the bulbs. The natural shape of the m
terial can be utilized after careful drying. j'

Linoleum scraps can usually be secured from l1
linoleum company or store that does inlaid
linoleum work. This is an excellent material for
the art of block printing. Block printing is espe-
cially enjoyed by a person who likes to draw with
cutting tools. There are great possibilities for ar-
tistic expression in this craft. Space does n0t
permit a complete discussion of block printing,
but there are many fine books available on this
subject.

  
  
   
 
   
   
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
  

Lumber scraps are obtainable in almost every
community. From these scraps come the supplies
for the woodcarving classes and for the wood—
working classes at the Central Community House.
Woodcarving requires a pocket knife, a set of
carving tools, a firm table with wooden blocks to
hold the objects in position. On heavier pieces of
wood a round mallet is used. The use of the tools
can be learned by most of the youngsters who are
above the age of ten. Scraps of soft wood such
as white pine, chestnut, and red wood are good
materials for the beginner. The varying sizes,
hapes and thicknesses of lumber should be utilized
in planning the design. It is a hobby that has a
remendous fascination for the person who likes
o decorate his own furniture. This ancient art
has a long and venerable history and is now being
[rediscovered by the craft workers of the United
States.

Oilcloth samples. which can be obtained from
tores and manufacturing companies when they
hange their sample cases, provide the youngster
vith this useful material for the making of scrap
ook covers, pot holders, pocketbooks, hot pads,
lothespin bags, and. other articles.

Rags. usually donated to most community cen—
ers, provide the ingenius leader with a material
or doll clothes, puppet costumes and many other
icknacks. From the use of rags the youngster
an learn sewing skills, designing of dresses, and
- eedlecrafts of all kind.

Sawdust. obtainable from any lumber company,
. s an excellent material for the making of puppet
eads and for the modeling of dolls. We at Cen-
ral Community House use sawdust primarily in
. he art of puppetry which we carry through from
' he making of the puppet heads to the completion
f the entire project. There is a great opportunity
. or varying creative skills in this one art alone,
nd it uses the abilities of youngsters of all ages.

f PUppet making is not a difficult art but is a
. ime-consuming one. First
, he head should be shaped
II ut of sawdust mixed with
r aperhangers’ paste or flour
. aste. The character should
I1 e shaped with some gen—
l ral idea of the type of per-
on to be used in the puppet
how. The children should

ave free scope in develop-
ng the form and character

It is the author's hope that the creative
leader will glean from this article many
suggestions helpful in developing new and
varied sources of material for use in work-
shops. "The tield of crafts." he says, "is
vital and capable of interesting youths and
adults in all walks of life. The history of
art has taught us that the closer we are to
an elementary knowledge of material. the
greater are the possibilities for the devel-
opment of a unique and genuine folk art."

CREATIVE CRAFTS FOR RECREATION 371

of the puppet head. After the form is com-
pleted, the head is then entirely dried. After dry—
ing, it is sanded and touched up with plastic wood
to cover any cracks or defects that may have de—
veloped. Then the head is painted, inexpensive
sho-card color paint can be used, provided it is
shellacked after the painting is dried. After the
puppet head is completed the costume can be pro—
vided by the utilization of the scrap materials
which have been suggested in this article. In pup-
petry every phase of the dramatic art can be de-
veloped, from stage designing, furniture-making
and lighting, to the development of dramatic
action. The art of puppetry is enjoyed by the
young and by the old and can become one of the
most creative and dynamic crafts in a center.

Stone cutting is another inexpensive craft, which
really belongs to the sculptor’s art but is available
in every town and village where there is any stone.
The only requirements for the craft are a couple
of chisels, mallets, a pair of goggles, soft stone
and the willingness to work. The stone should be
tested with mallet and chisel to save time and
trouble before bringing it to the craft shop. Here
again the art of stone cutting is at its best when
the naturally shaped piece of stone is utilized in
working out the design. This hobby has interested
many who like to work with heavy objects and to
chisel and cut on something that challenges their

ingenuity.

Another phase of the art of stone cutting is that
of stone polishing, a hobby allied to the art of ring
making. Native stones that are cut and polished
can create very unusual patterns in colors and de-‘
signs. This art goes back to the time when pre-
cious stones were cut and polished by hand and
when ornaments and designs and many other use—
ful objects were created from the natural native
stone. The older adolescent children enjoy this
art, but it is particularly fascinating to the adult.
Drilling tools have been made out of ordinary
drills to which is added a
water jacket, a good exam—
ple of the hobbyist’s skill'in
inventing a tool for his art.

Scrap tin can be a pro—
ductive craft material. Metal
tapping which is decorative
designing with a nail and a
mallet, can be used in the
making of letter holders,

( C ontirmcd on page 402)

From City Auditorium to Recreation Center

some 14,000 people and

the granite center of the
world, completed a municipal
auditorium in November, 1939.
This building followed some-
what the same pattern as the
majority of municipal audi-
toriums. The main floor, 100’
x 101’, is bordered on one side
by a balcony capable of seat-
ing 410 people. On the other
side there is a stage 61’ x41’. The floor is lined
out for a basketball court and there are two prac—
tice baskets on each side of the court baskets.
There are 2,200 chairs available for conventions
or stage productions. The stage is flanked on each
side by three dressing rooms. Under the stage is
the kitchen with openings to the main floor for
serving banquets.

An exhibition hall, 100’ x 69’, is located under
the main auditorium floor. On the north side
there is a check room 60’ x 30’, and on the south
side are the dressing rooms and showers for both
boys and girls. Beyond the dressing rooms there
is a large hall constructed primarily as an assem—
bling place for large groups desiring to march to
the stage or into the main hall.

With this new building Barre was in a position
to compete for conventions with any community
in the state. The building was also available to'
local groups for dances, entertainments, or any
other function which is usually carried on in a
municipal auditorium. The local high school would
play its basketball schedule and hold its gradua-
tions here.

The city was fortunate in having a very pro—
gressive City Council, led by Mayor Edwin F.
Heininger, which realized that it had a huge in—
vestment, and that were it to be used only for the
purposes mentioned, the building would be dark a
good deal of the time. In order that the entire com-
munity might have the maximum use and enjoy—
ment from the auditorium, it was decided to open

BARRE, VERMONT, a city of

it for recreational purposes. The City Council in— a

vited the New England held representative of the
National Recreation Association and the author,
then State Director of Recreation for WPA, to

372

By JOSEPH A. BRISLIN

Director of Recreation
Barre. Vermont

So gratified is Barre. Vermont. over
the results secured from the use of
its auditorium as a recreation build-
ing that it has no hesitation in rec- tions.
ommending the plan to other communi-
ties which have similar buildings un-
used tor the greater part of the time.

   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 

assist in planning the transfor
mation of the building into
recreation center.

The usual procedure was fo
lowed in setting up a recre
tion board and securing a
ordinance to govern its fun

Accomplishments in a Ye

On April I, 1940 the ci
had just engaged a year-rou
recreation executive and turned over to him t
task of establishing a community center program.
The chief facility given him was a building co
structed more for the purpose of, entertaining co 1
ventions and large gatherings than for recreati |
purposes. .

Today the picture has completely changed. T
auditorium is' now a community center capable
accommodating from five to .six hundred partici-
pants in recreation activities at one time. At the
same time the building is still available for it’s
primary purposes, as the recreation equipment czln
be stored in a very short time. 

Since the recreation director has compleg
charge of the building there is no confusion
over-lapping of authority. He plans the recrea-
tion program so that the renting of the buildi g
to outside groups will not interfere with it, a d
frequently several groups use the building at t 6
same time. The main floor is now used for ba -
minton, deck tennis, volleyball, boxing, mat wo ,
and gym games; and there are parallel ba 5,
climbing ropes, as well as a basketball court. Tlds
gives an opportunity for all age groups to partici-
pate in physical activities. Every second Frida'y
night the Recreation Department sponsors a free
dance on this floor, with an average of four hun-
dred couples. Music is furnished by the \VPA
orchestra.

The stage with its curtain closed gives an extra
room where dancing classes are held and smaller
groups can meet. Here clubs often have moving
pictures or lectures with slides. The recreation de-
partment often uses the stage for plays and simila

purposes.
The exhibition hall has been turned into a hug

  
 
  
   
    
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
   

FROM CITY AUDITORIUM TO RECREATION CENTER 373

; ame room with ping-pong tables, miniature bowl-
'ng alleys, carrom baseball and football, dart base-
all, handball, punching bags, box hockey, indoor
horseshoes, shuffleboard and paddle tennis.

The large hallway outside the exhibition hall
an be closed off for the use of discussion groups,
first aid classes, Girl Scout troop meetings, or
uiet games.

All participants, no matter what activities they
5». re engaged in, are required to hang their coats
l1 nd hats in the check room.

' The dressing rooms each serve a special pur-
ose; one has been turned into a craft shop and
.quipped with jig saws, a band saw, circular saw,
*lathe and all the hand tools which go to make up
e well-equipped shop. This is one of the most
opular spots as most of the children have the
urge to work with their hands, a natural instinct
him their fathers work all day producing marble
monuments. This is not known as the Craft Room
to these young people, but the Carving Room. Any
iece of craft with lettering or design appeals
. ost. During the week preceding Christmas, over
, ,800 personalized pins made from alphabet soup
.etters were turned out as Christmas gifts. The
_dults also use the craft room for making new
ind repairing old furniture. '
l A second room has been converted into a
'ounger girls’ play and club room. Many of the
'. uieter games such as jack straws, ring toss,
lock building, dominoes, lotto, parchesi, Chinese
' heckers, and puzzles are available. Appropriate
pictures adorn the walls, and this room is also
.used for the weekly storytelling hour. The girls’
raft shop is located in another of these dressing
rooms and here
the girls do spat-
, ter painting, crepe
‘ paper work, cray-
, onex pillows, knit-
ting, sewing, ser-
pentine work, and
make scrap books.
An exhibit of the
different types of
work done in both
craft rooms, which
has been set up
for the public in
another dressing
room, makes a

very attractive
display.

Both boys and girls construct model airplanes,
boats, automobiles and tanks in the fifth room. A
sixth room is kept for emergencies.

A Typical Day at the Recreation Center

At 2:00 P. M. the high school students use the
main floor, the large game room and the craft
shops. This continues until 4:00 P. M. with an
average attendance of approximately 150. At 4:00
P. M. the grammarschool youngsters take over and
use the entire building. They have dancing classes
on the stage, play games, use the equipment, and
take part in modeling classes. The average number
of grammar school children who participate daily
is 200.

At 7:00 P. M. the building is open for the
adults. Downstairs the large game roOm is in use;
the hallway houses a first aid class; a minstrel
show is being rehearsed on the stage; half the
main floor is being used for basketball and the
other half for badminton, volleyball, and games
of like nature. At 8 :30 P. M. the bait casters come
in and use approximately half the floor, while the
badminton club uses the other half. The minstrel
show group moves off the stage and a band comes
on for an hour’s practice. Unless there is a special
event, the day ends at 10:15 with about 150 adults
using the various facilities.

Special Events

Some of the special events which have been
(Continued on page 399)

Planned in the beginning for occasional use.
this building is now a busy recreation center

 

The Place of Handicrafts in Our Schools

By FRED A. EKSTRAND
Community High School
Hillsdale. Illinois

HE GREATER part of the popu—

lation of our community is

composed of Belgians and
Germans who brought from
their mother countries a skill
for developing things with
their hands. This trait to a
greater or less degree has
been handed down to their
children, who hnd real enjoy-
ment and satisfaction in mak-
ing things.

Every summer an old—time
community fair is held in
Hillsdale. To this fair the
rural folks from Hillsdale and surrounding com-
munities bring their handicrafts to exhibit along
with their garden produce, canned goods, flowers,
grain displays, fancy work, and baked goods. The
attendance is proof of the keen interest the people
have developed for this event. The country schools
in our community are doing much to promote in-
terest in handicrafts. The skill shown in our man-
ual training classes in high school clearly indicates
that boys and girls have learned to use their hands
to good advantage. This development in our school
is one of major importance, and the problem of
introducing handicraft and carrying it out as a
recreation activity is receiving intelligent attention.

Several months ago handicrafts were introduced
to our students at an assembly period when I
stressed the practical advantages of handicrafts
through the stimulation of mind and body as pre-
sented in the volume, “Handicrafts 0f the South-
ern Highlands,” by Allen H. Eaton. An explana—
tion of the possibilities in making useful articles
from nuts and seeds was given. A faculty meeting
was held the following week at which we discussed
our approach to the new activity. Our question
was whether it should be introduced as an extra-
class activity or taught as a part of our classroom
instruction.

It was decided that our first step should be to
stimulate interest, and with this in mind a ques—
tionnaire was given the students on which they
might indicate their chief interests in the field of
handicrafts. They were requested to list their
hobbies and articles which they had already made

374

While serving as the scoutmaster of the
local Boy Scout troop and as teacher of
handicraft in the summer Vacation Bible
School. Mr. Ekstrand made the discovery
that handicrafts had a real fascination
for the boysI who not only enjoyed
making articles but showed genuine
originality in pattern and design. This
interest he is now developing among stu-
dents of the High School through a care-
fully planned program of craft projects.

    
  
    
  

or were interested in making. T
our surprise we found that man
of the boys had been doing woo
carving, braiding, pottery,
metal and leather work. Th
girls had made or were inter-
ested in making puppets, in
spinning and weaving, i
quilting, rug making, braid I
ing, leather work, and in
mountain baskets. Here was.
our opportunity to develo
skills and to provide a crea—_
tive. outlook by giving our
boys and girls an inexpen-
sive form of recreation. The interest was there.
Our responsibility was to stimulate it to activity,l
to bring out unsuspected abilities, and to effect
better adjustments.

As our home economics instructor had had con-
siderable experience in handicrafts, it was decided
to introduce the subject as a part of this course.
With the instructions provided by the University
of Iowa, the class, using the manual training room
and its equipment, made as its first project walnut
necklaces and bracelets. Pumpkin and water-
melon seeds were cleaned, dyed and strung for
novelty bracelets. Several walnut rings were com-
pleted after a dozen or so were ruined in the
learning process. The students have shown re-
markable skill in these simple projects and have I
started on their own initiative to 'make beautiful
necklaces by carving cups in a continuous chain I
from plum seeds. Four or five candlestick holders I
were made from butternuts, each supported by a
carved base from walnut wood. A visit was made
to the manual arts instructor to learn the pro-
cedure in using a face plate on the lathe in turning
out a suitable base for the butternut candlestick-
holders. Through this process the girls learn not
only the steps in wood turning but the methods.
of sanding, hnishing, and polishing the wood as it
was turned 0n the lathe.

At the present time the class is making belts.
from thin, rectangular walnut wooden blocks. The
pieces are about four inches long by two inches
wide and and one—eighth of an inch thick. Four
holes are drilled near the four corners of each

THE PLACE OF HANDICRAFTS IN OUR SCHOOLS 375

Adult education is a branch
of our Home Economics De-
partment. Several sessions of
this program were devoted to
handicraft. Not only were
the women interested in the
phases of handicraft men-

"l.have always been a strong advocate
of the development of hobbies which
will provide a creative outlookl toster
skillsl increase sensitiveness to sur-
roundings and give dignity to common
things. We ma experience through
handicraft that cu tural satisfaction which
comes through knowing and doing."

block and it is then sanded,
stained, and polished. Leather
thongs are used to connect
the wooden pieces, thus mak-
ing an attractive belt. It is
not only popular but durable.

Another handicraft material

 

‘ used was twisted crepe paper
from which many articles were made. One girl,
for example, covered a little cardboard box with
the twisted paper, working in a design as the cov-
ering progressed, and finally shellacking it. The
result was a very attractive little covered jewel
box. Another project made from the paper was a
work basket made from clothesline covered with
the paper. The twisted paper wrapped around
the clothesline was rolled around and joined at a
distance of every inch, following the process used
in making a mat. Finally the sides were shaped,
and a work basket resulted.

Crepe paper dolls, centerpieces for different 0c-
casions, nut cups, and many other small articles
were made so that the girls could appreciate the
place of crepe paper in the handicraft program.

Metal craft was studied in the department, and
pewter coasters were made. This project was not
only very interesting but very worth while, for
the finished products not
only illustrated what can
be done with metal but
produced results lasting
and useful.

Plastics, so widely used
today, were introduced
into the program, and very
attractive desk sets were
made. The equipment nec-
essary for working with
plastics is very inexpen-
sive. The essentials are
plenty of time and the
patience necessary to
achieve perfect results.

Whether it's in a small
community or in America's —
largest cit; whether in '
a school. oys' club' or
on a crowded playground,
boys and girls are happy ..
when they're making things :1

I . V '

tioned but also in chair can-
ing. So keen was their interest that an all-day
meeting was held at which each woman worked on
a chair. Thus they had not only the pleasure of
learning how to cane the chair but the satisfac-
tion of knowing they were saving money.

Our next step was to organize a handicraft
guild or club open to boys and girls. This group
holds regular meetings twice each‘ month to show
their work, to explain how each article is made,
and to give suggestions and ideas to members of
the club. At one of the meetings it was decided
that the noon hour program at the school was not
as enjoyable as it should be, and it was suggested
that the club make some homemade games to be
used for noon hour activities. Three ping-pong
tables were constructed. Checker boards, paddle
tennis, aerial dart games, ruma, nine men morris,
Chinese checkers, and 33-hole solitaire games were

(Continued on page 401)

   

Courtesy'Madison-Square Boys" Club, New York City

Folktime in Richmond,Virginia

UNDER THE beam of a mid—

summer’s moon and sur—

rounded by the giant
trees and bubbling fountain of
Monroe Park, located in the
center of our city, one hundred
and fifty adults and children danced and sang the
ageless folk tunes of Virginia when the Commu—
nity Recreation Association of Richmond pre-
sented its Virginia Folk Festival in August.

Two thousand spectators stood enthralled out-
side of the lighted area while the performers
played “Farmer in the Dell,” sang “Billy Boy,”
danced “Captain Jinks,” or pantomimed the
familiar ballad, “The Raggle Taggle Gypsies” on
the improvised grassy stage and on the surround-
ing lawns. Costumed in gaily printed pinafores and
denim overalls, the participants presented a pic-

ture of spontaneous joy and enthusiasm matched =

only by the response of the audience.

The Virginia Folk Festival was an activity of
the Madison School Community Center, con-
ducted by the Community Recreation Association
to serve one of the most economically insecure
sections of Richmond.

By ROSE KAUFMAN BANKS

. . . The plaintive numbers flow
For old. forgotten. far-off things."

——Wordswortb

Other organizations were
called in to assist in the pro—
duction of the festival. The
City Department of Parks and
Playgrounds erected the stage,
installed lines for artificial
lighting, furnished a public address system and
provided means for hauling and installing equip-
ment. The VVPA Writers’ Project gave the As-
sociation access to the folk material it had col-
lected throughout Virginia and also the services of
its folklore consultant to check all material for its
authenticity. The WPA Music Project furnished
the nineteen piece orchestra for the evening.

Real community interest was nowhere more evi-
dent than in this festival. Mothers and big sisters
from Madison School Parent—Teacher Associa—
tion, the Citizens’ Service Exchange, and the
Gamble’s Hill Garden Club spent busy hours cut—
ting and sewing colorful pinafores for the chil—
dren. Churches in the neighborhood took part in
the folk songs. Children from neighborhood p1ay-»
grounds and institutions participated in folk games
and dances, while a quartet from the Musicians”

(Continued on page 407)

 

REPE PAPER STREAMERS—red, white, and blue
—-partition off the party room, providing
“corners” for the three groups into which

'uests are divided—the Reds, the Whites, and the
lues. In each section is a table upon which is a
luster of small American flags (in a holder con-
isting of half of a raw potato) and the necessary
ames materials for that team.

Prepare sets of narrow strips of red, white, and
' lue construction paper (1”x4” in size). Distrib-

te these slips to the guests at the door, giving
ach a slip and a pin and instructing him to join
he group which his color indicates. This slip,
ihned on the individual participant, signifies his

‘afflliation” during a game.

When the teams have assembled in their respec-
ive corners, each chooses a chairman. The chair—
u an in turn selects the “delegates” to the games.
i I f desired, a delegate might be free during a game
. a confer with other members of his or her team
. or suggestions and help in fulfilling requirements.

All down through American history the ringing

f bells has celebrated victories and important
‘ vents. Hence the chairman has one other duty;
‘ e must appoint a “town crier” or “promoter of
.nthusiasm" for his group. For each victory
scored by his team, the town crier claims a large
copper cowbell and rings it lustily. He keeps the
bell until it is rightfully taken by another team.
(The bell is first claimed from the judges’ table.)

Each group is represented by one person at the
judges’ table. The judges are actually the score-
keepers. Each has a pencil and a scoring sheet

     

is to be awarded to the winning team in each
event.

The program might be opened by having the
judges ring the cowbell and announce the begin-
ning of festivities by “Hear Ye! Hear Ye! Hear

Ye!” in traditional town crier
l fashion. Or there might be a
; “Bugle Call to the Pursuit of
meme

l

 

The events represent out-
standing divisions of periods in
American history and are an-
nounced as such by the leader.

or an All-American Party

"2 ounted on cardboard of his team color. One POint ,

During the coming year many party plan-
ners will dip into American history in
their search for party themes. and epi-
sodes and events of national signifi-
' cance will be featured. Here are a few
suggestions which may be pulled out of
your files from time to time as the
patriotic holidays make their rounds.

 

By MARY A. FLYNN ,

Exploration

Finding the Truth. (Three delegates from each
group.) Prepare a number of historical posters
by mounting unlabeled pictures on white paper or
cardboard. Number the posters and fasten them
to the wall by scotch tape or thumb tacks. Each
delegate is given a piece of paper and a pencil. He
must correctly identify and write down the name
of each picture or what it signifies. At the signal
ending the given time period, the delegates in each
group compare papers and turn in the most com-
plete one to the judges.

The historical posters might be as follows:
I. Washington’s home at Mt. Vernon

. Discovery of gold in California

. William Penn’s treaty with the Indians

. White House at Washington, D. C.

Carpenter Hall, Philadelphia

. Lafayette

. Lexington Green

Betsy Ross making the first flag or Betsy Ross’
home

9. The Capitol, Washington, D. C.
10. Concord Bridge

11. Independence Hall, Philadelphia
12. Washington’s Headquarters at Newburgh

13. Washington’s Headquarters at Valley Forge or
Winter at Valley Forge

14. Old North Church, Boston

15. Plymouth Rock

16. Ships of Columbus
17. Statue of Liberty

18. Bunker Hill Monument

l9. Statue of Minuteman

20. Liberty Bell

21. West Point

22. Crossing the Delaware
23. Boston Tea Party

24. General Grant’s Tomb

genomth

377

378

Colonization
Taxation Without Representation. (Three dele—
gates from each group.) When the delegates are
on the floor in full view of everyone present each
with a large black moustache cut from construc-

tion paper. This results in much hilarity.

The leader explains to the delegates that they
represent colonists about to join a revolutionary
club. To belong to this club each in turn must say
the password, supplied to them, with gestures, by
the leader. Directions are given to each delegate
in turn until some one follows the correct pro—
cedure. That delegate earns a point for his team.

The leader says, accompanying his remark with
an .elaborate flourish: “This is the password: Tax-
ation without Representation!” The password is,
of course, “Taxation.”

Independence

Ringing the Liberty Bell. (Three delegates from
each group.) Cut out a large bell (18”x24”) from
heavy dark cardboard. A “crack” down the side
will add to its resemblance to the Liberty Bell.
Cut a hole in the center 5”x6” in size. Suspend a
real bell in the hole. Hang the cardboard bell in
a door or archway, tying it with heavy string at
top and sides so it will not swing back and forth.

Players stand ten or more feet from the bell
and throw a small rubber ball through the hole in
the center, causing the small bell to ring. If the
bell rings because the ball hits the cardboard, it
does not count; the ball must strike the real bell.
'Each player has three tries, and the group totaling
the greatest score is winner.

Social Trends

Patriotic Anagrams. (Three delegates from each
group.) Lettered anagram squares are placed face
down On a table. The leader turns up a square,
showing it to all of the players at once. The first
player to call some word of patriotic connotation
(name, event, place) beginning with that letter,
receives the square. A word can be used only
once. At the end of the allotted time, the squares
are collected by the members of each group. The
team with the highest number wins a point.

Virginia Reel with Variations. (Two couPles from
each group.) Both lines move forward and bow,
retreat, then forward and right hands around, and
so on. The head couples start the reel part as
always. Give each dancer a paper plate with six
cranberries or peas on it, which he or she must

FOR AN ALL—AMERICAN PARTY

hold during the reel. The team members totali
the most berries on their plates at the close win
point.

Westward Expansion

State Abbreviations. (Entire group.) All a
supplied with pencils and mimeographed copies 1
the questions which follow. Team mates conf
and write down the answers. The best paper fr
each group is given to the judges. If teams tie
score, the Ichairmen draw for the winner. T
answers to the questions are abbreviations
states in the Union:

What is the most religious state? Mass.
. The most egotistical? Me.

Not a state for the untidy? Wash.
The most maidenly? Miss.

The most useful in haying time? Mo.
Best in time of flood? Ark.

A woman’s nickname? Minn.

The decimal state? Tenn.

‘The doctor’s state? Md.

10. No such word as fail? Kan.

11. The most unhealthy state? Ill.

12. The Mohammedan state? Ala.

13. The mining state? Ore.

14. The studious state? Conn.

990.“.0‘9‘99‘”?

  
   
   
  
  
  
    
   

Economic Developments

Consumer Education. (Five from each grou)
Put samples of everyday food products in nu
bered bottles, and place them on tables in I a
middle of the room. Participants receive penc n
and paper and endeavor to identify the conte
of each bottle by sight.

The following might be used: whole black 'I
per, salt, coffee, cloves, oats kernels, barley at
nels, tapioca, tea, cornflakes, buckwheat kern 5
baking powder, celery seed, grains of rye, must o

seed, and grains of wheat. ’
Mechanical Inventions

Motor Love 'Story. (Entire group.) Delegate
are given mimeographed copies of the verse belox .
and supply the answers in the blanks. The answer:
are parts of an automobile. The best paper in eac
group goes to the judges, and the team with th ,
most nearly correct answers wins. In this cop,

the answers are supplied in parentheses:

He thought her a maid most wonderous fair.
She wore a pink (hood) on her bright yellow hair,
A (muffier) around her fair throat she did twine
That she was a beauty he could but opine.

To gaze on her face was to see and admire;

(Continued on page 398)

AST SUMMER at the end of the playground season
a particularly interesting event took place in
Austin. It was a camp fire meeting attended

a y mothers and fathers of playground children
vho had been drawn together by their mutual in—
erest in improving the playgrounds. All parts of
he town were represented at the meeting, and
ach person present felt a loyalty for his particular
layground. '

This meeting was the closing event on the cal-"
ndar of the mothers’ clubs of Austin. It was only
me of many events which had been scheduled,
nd a number of meetings have been held since,
'vith the winter program well on its way. This
eeting was, however, especially significant be-
ause none of the women had ever participated in
uch an activity, and it proved that mothers’ clubs
ad become a necessary and permanent part of
he Recreation Department’s program.

But the full significance of this camp fire meet-
ng cannot be understood without a knowledge of
he development of the mothers’ clubs.

  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
    
    

The Evolution of the Clubs

In the summer of 1936 a group of women in
orth Austin wanted a playground opened in that
vvicinity. So about fifteen interested mothers got
. ogether to promote the idea. After the play-
round had been established,'the group continued
0 assist the leader by making possible the pur—
: base of some extra playground equipment not
. rovided by the city. This group of women did
not call themselves a mothers’ club. They had no
president or minute book. The club simply
evolved from all this, as the grouping was spon-
taneous, and the women were bound together by
the common interest of their children on the play-
ground. This group at Bailey recognized its suc-
cess even though the Recreation Department di-
rectors did not yet appreciate its full significance.
‘ So each year it quietly continued its prOgram.

During Austin’s observance of National Boy
and Girl Week, one of the activities of Recreation
Day was for each playground leader to assemble
I as many interested parents as possible to discuss
the leisure-time needs of the Austin boy and girl.
Two playgrounds responded, Metz and West Aus~
tin. The group at West Austin found they enjoyed

others’ Clubs Bridge the Seasons

Much can happen in a year to dim a child's
memory of his last year's playground exper-
ience. Moreover. the clientele of a play-
ground changes greatly from season to sea-
son. For these and various other reasons

the playground worker finds that he cannot
begin where he left off the year before but
each summer he must start over again at the
beginning. Is there a way in which continu-
ity might be maintained? The Austin. Texas.
Recreation Department believes it has found
a method in the formation of mothers' clubs
active the year round which are helping ef-
fectively to bridge the gap between seasons.»

By BEVERLY S. SHEFFIELD

Superintendent
Recreation Department
AustinI Texas

this meeting so much that they would like to meet
again. And so it was in the spring of 1938 that
the second mothers’ club was formed. The group
at Metz did not continue to meet that year.

That winter the playground leaders were told
in their training course about the success of the
clubs on these two grounds, and it was suggested
that each leader promote a club at his park. The
Metz club was the first of this group to become
fully organized, and the third club in the city.
These mothers at Metz had met on Recreation
Day for the second season and had grown into a

club .

The Department leaders had begun sponsoring
mothers’ clubs because they had seen that these
women could help promote a more effective pro-
gram for all ages by acting as an advisory council
to the leader, by carrying over interest from one
year into the next, and by becoming better ac-
quainted with others in the community through
association with this group. Although the main
purpose in establishing these clubs was in the in-
terest of the children and the ground, a second
and equally important reason for their existence
soon appeared. The women found that they en-
joyed each other. They made new friends.

379

380 MOTHERS’ CLUBS BRIDGE THE SEASONS

The women who live around these playgrounds
were busy housewives. They liked people, but
they hadn’t the time or the money to entertain
extensively, so most of their visiting was done at
the grocery store, over the back fence, and at
church. They found that they had no dues to
pay at a mothers’ club. No one was better dressed
than her neighbor. They felt completely at home
in one another’s homes or on a playground where
the mothers’ club meetings are held. All of these
advantages could not be found in some book club
or school group. Moreover, although they may
not have analyzed it fully, they enjoyed the club
because they were doing for others as well as for
themselves, and this gave an added impetus to
their weekly gatherings. _

So the mothers’ clubs grew. A central council
was formed of the presidents and two representa-
tives of each club. During the first meeting of
this group at the close of the summer season in
1939 the members were very enthusiastic about
the whole program and promised their support for
the next summer.

Last spring the central council sponsored a
“retreat” or conference for members of the execu-
tive boards of all the playgrounds, their entire
families, and the playground leaders. This gath-
ering was a retreat, not just another picnic, be-
cause the participants both received instruction
and had a good time. ‘

As soon as all had arrived, the children were
corralled and led off to play, the women were
divided according to the position they held, and
for the first time the men got together to discuss
the part a man could play in the building of the
playground.

Each group had the benefit of a leader thoroughly
familiar with her subject. The recreation director
in charge of all the mothers’ clubs spoke to the
presidents and secretaries; a woman experienced
in program planning addressed the vice-presidents
who head the program committees; another di-
rector who had helped draw up the city recreation
department’s budget talked to the treasurers on
finances and methods of bookkeeping; a news-
paper woman spoke to all reporters; and so on,
with an authority speaking to all officers or com-
mittee heads. These speakers conducted round
table discussions after concluding their formal
speeches.

Then the group divided according to play-
grounds to discuss the program for the next sum-
mer. If the playground leader were new, he found

     
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
  

that he had an able organization to help him 5:
started where the other leader had left off. Or,
he were returning to his ground a second time,
knew these people would continue their assistan

After thinking and planning for several hou
everyone was ready for some fun. So the lunch
that each mother had prepared were spread
gether, and the fried chicken and homema
cakes disappeared rapidly.

As dusk came on, the members took a last 10
at the mountains which surround the recreati
lodge and 'came indoors for a meeting of all t
people. A model club meeting was held as a s
to show these women who had heard little .
Roberts’ Rules of Order or how a meeting sho
be conducted. They sang together, they listen
to a sociology professor who understood th
problems, and they went home happy. This h
been a big day in their lives, as well as in the li
of the club. They had done a little the ye
before, but now they were accepting“ more respo
sibilities, and very explicit ones.

Though the goal of these clubs is to carry on
meeting correctly, the recreation directors do n
want to stifle their informality. So as the wom
gradually learn how to carry on a meeting, on
four rules are recommended by the departme
workers.

1. All material must be recorded.

2. All motions must be clearly stated, discusse .

and voted upon.

3. Only one person shall speak at a time.

4. The order of business must be followed.

The reason for the last recommendation is t
from experience it has been noticed that unl ,
some definite plan is followed for business,
women spend too long at it and accomplish lit

The manual for the playground leaders 1
summer contained a copy of the model club in
ing;‘it had a diagram of the duties of the 0ch .
and committees; it explained how these c1
could be organized and maintained, and how t
could help the boy and girl council. Today, e
playground has a well-organized as well as a f -
loving club.

The most important demand of the Recreat' 1
Department is that only one money-making aff ,
such as a carnival, may be held each year, a I
that the proceeds from this affair shall go b k
on the playground in the manner that the cl b
specifies.

It is at these carnivals and other similar events
that the fathers take part. They are, to be suné,

MOTHERS’ CLUBS BRIDGE THE SEASONS 381

‘ often taken in tow to a tea, picnic, or other social
event, though they are usually excluded from
meetings, but when a carnival comes, and the
booths need building, they are there to help! And
some day there may be formed a dads’ club with
these men as the nucleus.

The Camp Fire Program

At the camp fire program that closed the sum-
mer of 1940 awards in the form of parchments
with beautiful hand-printed inscriptions were pre-
sented to the mothers who had been voted the
most valuable to the club. This meeting was dif-
ferent in tone from the one the year before. They
had now proved themselves. They had done what
I they had set out to do, and more. Though they
were proud of their record, they were thoughtful
as well as jubilant. Jubilant over the past and
thoughtful over the future. A man prominent in
civic affairs addressed the group, saying that with
, the other hemisphere in a turmoil, the best way to
keep America as it is is for the people to continue
spreading the playground program. These women
had never been made to feel that important before.
They had never realized
that they were “the peo—
ple” with a duty to per-

The August meeting of the Central Council of
the Playground Mothers' Club was held in the

form. So, as the torches were lighted and the new
officers were installed, these women came to know
the meaning of hope, fellowship, and inspiration.
But the program didn’t stop there. This winter,
for the first time, the central council has a printed
yearbook and all their meetings for the year have
been planned. In October a social recreation meet-

ing was held and everybody played games. In
November a former P.T.A. executive talked on
“Coordination Between the Public Schools and
Public Recreation.” A “morning coffee” was
given in January with a tea room director as
guest speaker. In February a University of Texas
journalism professor will speak on “How to In-
terpret the Newspaper.” March brings spring in
Texas and with it the opening of the playgrounds,
so that month also brings the joint meeting of
playground leaders and the council. An Austin
preacher will discuss “Christianity in the World
Today.” There will be square dancing in April,
and in May a sociology professor will speak on
“Developing Our Child’s Personality.” A‘busi-
ness meeting will make up the June program, and
in July the director of the Recreation Department

will talk about planning the

leisure-time needs of the

(Continued on page 410)

' City Council room of the Municipal Building

' -' 1 6’1. « 
' ‘ o

 

-,.. . ,_- _ *. - ..r -r   -

.i-c-M“

(

5 mg:
.is
.,

'32.
,I.

,3;
. “is .

t  "
i
. 5 ‘v “
. A ’ 'x‘
.- y

1-" mm?! ‘

«mm; m

‘ “it 

 warm ,_

is



5
I-
-_V
j .A
O

What They Say About Recreation

“ LAY IS NOT a separate chamber of life nor
P the exclusive property of a few. It goes
-through the whole structure of life. And

the raw materials of play are the commonest prop-
erty we have at our disposalL—minds, hands, eyes.”
—From Report, Bureau of Parks Recreation Ac-

tivities, Portland, Oregon.

“Recreation is physical, yet it is also mental and
spiritual. And mental and spiritual values must be
given first place, for without mental balance and
spiritual peace, physical health is impossible and
physical joy unknown.”—Floyd W. Schmoe in
American Forests, January 1941.

“Health is not keeping out of the mortality
tables. Mental health is concerned with fullness
of living. The problem of mental health is full
half of the problem of public health.”—Dr. C. E.

A. Winslow.

“Today adequate provision for wholesome lei—
sure time activities for both old and young is
recognized as-a governmental responsibility. The
cost of a modern public recreation system can well
be considered an investment, not an expense, be-
cause it is a recognized fact that an efficiently
operated recreation system is a potent factor in
reducing delinquency.”—Florida Parks and Rec-
reation.

“Recreation means re-creation. Getting back to
normal through the simple process of playing a
game, or taking a drive in the country, or digging
in a garden, or indulging in your favorite hobby.”
—Your Life, January, 1941.

“It has been demonstrated that people like to
participate in a program that is based up0n the
democratic procedure, in which they“ have a voice
in planning, organizing, and conducting the activi—
ties, and that volunteer leaders, serving in differ-
ent capacities, can contribute materially, at no cost
to the town, to the successful operation of many
leisure—time activities.”—From Annual Report,
Recreation Department, W est Hartford, Conn.

“Recreation for children in a democracy should
reflect the values that are implicit in the democra—
tic way of life.”—Oakland Recreation Bulletin.

382

else, but it is not his leisure.”

      
 
    
     
    
    

“Sport is a game or some form of physical e
ercise done for the fun of it. Because it gives yo
pleasure. Sport of this type is obviously democr
tic as it is obviously workable, congenial and just
—]olm R. Tunis in Democracy and Sport.

“No leadership, or, what is worse, poor leade
ship, is often the cause of poor sportsmanship
the part of our youth. A good leader does n
regiment his program, but rather points out t
way to one less informed so that he may recei
the greatest possible satisfaction from his chose
activity.”—Raymond Hoyt.

“I am convinced that every human being pos—
sesses a creative urge to make beautiful things,
that this urge can be brought out and put to work
With proper encouragement, and that suppression
of it results in maladjustments of life.”—Boris
Blai in American illagaeine.

“Provision of adequate recreational resourcest
and varied leisure-time opportunities is essential!
to any community’s program for the welfare of
its people. Health, social satisfactions and normal
social attitudes are all enhanced by the release
which comes from a normal, wholesome expendi-I
ture of time not devoted to the discharge of daily'.
and routine responsibilities.”—The H onol ulu Plan.

“If leisure is to be the ‘growing time of the
human spirit,’ it must be something more than the
chink of time between work and rest. . . . Free
time without security is not leisure, and to speak
of unemployment as ‘enforced leisure’ is a mock-1
ery.”—From The Literature of Adult Education.

“Spare time isn’t leisure until the individual
finds a way to work spare time into his own de-
sign for living. Until that moment, it may be
sheer "idleness, or it may be exploited by someone

“A vigorous community recreation program
with active youth participation can do much to
enhance employability, develop community pride
and instill a patriotic sense of loyalty to American
institutions.”—The American Youth Commission.

 

 

.Adventure Cruising to Alaska

RAVEL has always been an im-

portant form of recreation.

However, in recent months,
the spread of war in Europe and
Asia has considerably curtailed
its use by American students. Most of the cus-
tomary travel routes are now closed, and those
young people who have the inclination and the
money to go abroad this year are looking around
for new worlds to conquer. The slogan “See
America First” is naturally being re-emphasized,
and war may even be the cue for our rediscovery
of America.

A cruise to Alaska, along the British Columbian
coast, through the world famous Inside Passage-
way, is the writer’s suggestion of an answer to the
problem.

Alaska was purchased by the United States
from Russia in 1867 for $7,200,000—about two
cents an acre. It has proved to be an immensely
valuable possession, yielding more than two bil-
lion dollars in exports since that date. It is a
strange, rugged country, with only a few thousand
people living there, but beautiful beyond compari-
son, and full of wonders.

The territory is America’s most rugged frontier.
Several distinct races of Indians inhabit the shore-
land, each with its own culture. Remnants of
Russian civilization still remain, and the dramatic
struggle of the early settlers is vividly recorded

By SAMUEL F. HARBY

Assistant Professor

Health and Physical Education
Antioch College

on the mountain slopes and re-
flected in the bay.

The natural resources of A1-
aska with her minerals, forests,
game and fish are enormous. It
is a region of future great industrial development,
but this deve10pment has only begun. Steamship
and airplane. routes are established; a railroad
comes within a hundred miles of the border; plans
are already drawn for a highway to connect with
the United States. Perhaps not much longer will
you be able to see Alaska in its primitive wonders
as you can today.

The distance from Seattle to Juneau is approxi—
mately a thousand miles, and the route behind the
islands is sheltered the entire distance. There are
only three such great inside passageways in the
world, the other two being along the Norwegian
coast and the coast of Chile. The Alaskan Indians
have a legend that on the day of creation, the great
builder was required to complete his task and
report back to the Master by sundown. He worked
on the Far North last, prohting by his experience
with the rest of the world. In fact he became so
engrossed in this work, his masterpiece, that he
forgot to watch the time, and sundown caught him
standing with one foot in the Gulf of Alaska, the
other in Queen Charlotte Sound, and his pockets
bulging with materials still unused. He rushed off
to the south, turning his pockets inside out as he

383

384 ADVENTURE CRUISING TO ALASKA

ran, dropping thousands of islands along the
coast, and thus was formed the Passageway. It is
as fine a cruising ground as any in the world, and
tourists here do not face the inconveniences of
open sea travel and seasickness. Anchorages are
available all along the way, and the route behind
the islands is naturally much safer than on open
sea lanes.

Traveling in a small boat through the Inside
Passage one finds a wealth of beauty and interest
denied the traveler on larger vessels. He can sail
into shallow waters and up small inlets to reap
thrills only dreamed of before. He may anchor
in any of a thousand spruce-bordered bays, sur-
rounded by wilderness, and watch big game stir
the brush or salmon crowd the streams on their
way to spawn. By cruis-
ing close to shore he
can observe many nat-
ural wonders of the.
shoreline at amazingly
close range. He may
visit Indian villages, ex-
plore glaciers or gold
mines, and perhaps
climb some hoary island-
volcano that has blown
its top off. Icebergs are
playmates for the tiny
craft, and whales may
come up to greet the
intruder.

On the way to Alaska the
cruiser can visit beautiful
Princess Louise Inlet, without
doubt the most spectacular flord on the Pacific
coast. It has been called “Yosemite flooded”—al-
most an adequate phrase. There are other mag-
nificent inlets and hundreds of islands where
surprises await the curious traveler. Time being
his own, he can stop when and wherever he
pleases. Hunting and fishing are always good, and
a flexible schedule will permit his taking advan-
tage of opportunities as they arise.

The two highest peaks on the American con-
tinent, Mt. McKinley and Mt. Fairweather, are in
Alaska, and both can be viewed from the boat
deck. The latter peak rises directly from the
water’s edge, and dwarfs both man and ship into
insignificance. No less than a dozen glaciers can
be seen breaking off into the sea, and the small
boat can go right up to the face of the glacier.

The trip from Puget Sound to Southeastern

 

Why not see Alaska's natural beauties '
and resources now. before the coun-
try has become too readily accessible?

Alaska is much easier than most people suppose
The writer has made the cruise on three different
occasions in a fifty foot sailing ketch, with aux-
iliary power, and he recommends this method
heartily to students and teachers interested in va-
cation thrills or education by travel. '

Our parties were made up of older boys, twelve!
on each trip, and the yacht was chartered espe
cially for this cruise. \Ve sailed from Seattle abou
the fourth of July and spent little more than
week going through British Columbian waters to
the southern border of Alaska. Another two week I
were spent seeing the sights in Alaska, a final week
or ten days for the return trip, and we were back
in Seattle by the middle of August. This is the
best time of the year for a cruise in Alaska, since
' the fog and rains begin

about the middle of
August and do not let
. up until the first of
July.

Such a cruise is prac-
ticable. Many suitable
boats are available in
Puget Sound, and also-
many navigators able to'
serve as skipper. The
total cost of charter,l
captain’s services, and
food for a party of
twelve on a month’s
cruise (2,000 miles)

would be little more than
$1,200. This is approximately
a hundred dollars per person,
which compares favorably with the cost of even a
short European cruise. The plan of using small
craft which accommodate ten or twelve passen-
gers each is particularly recommended becaUSe it
can be adjusted to parties of various size. Having
at least two boats makes possible separate sleep—
ing quarters for men and women and simplifies
management for the cruise leaders. The most
difficult arrangements are: chartering the boat,
hiring crew, stocking provisions, planning the
itinerary, and making the necessary contacts with
agents in ports along the way.

Many colleges and universities are already run-
ning travel service as part of their educational or
recreational program. Several of these could easily
band together to make arrangements for Alaskan
cruises cooperatively. A non-profit organization

(Continued on page 400)

  
   

 

Whittling‘ ls Fun!

FTERNOONS and evenings dur-
A ing the summer and fall
months are an ideal time
for people of all ages to become
. interested in whittling. It is a sociable as well as
a creative art. Many people will find enjoyment
‘in their leisure hours, first in learning how to
Whittle and then in creating beautiful and useful
objects out of wood. Any boy or girl who has the
urge to create something can become a good whit-
tler. Any adult who thinks he would like to cut
something out of wood is a whittler “in the
rdlgh.”

\Vhittling is fun! Just ask almost any boy or
girl at the Berry Schools at Mt. Berry, Georgia,
I and some of them will tell you how they worked
j their way through school by creating animals and
figures out of wood. And they will tell you, too,
that the hours of their work
days are more like play than
’ work, more fun than playing.

How to Do It

For the best
results in whit-
tling visualize
your subject in
a very simple,
and direct way.
Pictures from
children’s ani-
mal books may
help in this
process.

By AMANDA WATKINS
Head. Art Department
Berry Schools

There is deep satisfaction for the
carver in seeing the figure of an
animal emerge from a block of wood

 

_. t , .4 ., ~~ :.
/,_,£“......Mé“....«m‘ (I‘M..uufz.$h¥‘t-_hw,:(_yn1.,y.-...r.-‘Jdp-v- ¢_v._v“.a_..z._x_ .4. v “3....” 5

Make a paper pattern the size
you want the finished object to
be, of the side or front view.
Now you are ready to look for
wood from which to cut this pattern. California
pine and cedar are both soft and are excellent
woods for the beginner to use. Always cut against
the grain to keep the 'wood from splitting. Draw
around the pattern on the wood, being sure to let
the grain go up and down; cut out with a band,
or coping saw around the outline. The thickness
of the blank will depend on the width of the widest
part of the object to be cut. (See A in Figure I.)
Draw a line through the middle of the blank. Also
draw the lines of the legs, arms, and head. This
will help with the proportions. (See Figure II.)
Use a good pocket knife with a large and small
steel blade. The blades must be kept sharp if the
cutting is to be easy. The big
blade should be used in cutting
the excess wood from around
the action lines drawn on the

blank. Do not
finish any one

part but keep

the animal or

f i g u r e i n a
“blockey” state

until good form

 has been obtain-
a": ed (See B in
Figure I.) With
a small knife
blade begin to

385

386 WHIT'I‘LING IS FUN!

cut (a vertical cut into the wood) that has bem
properly made, the chip you are removing w.11
The finishing up separate itself easily and naturally from the block

process takes time. Use without forcing, twi -
sandpaper #z/o-Ioo to get ________ a“ ing, wiggling or tu -
the rough places out of the ing the blade in an -
wood;finishing thesanding fort to force or spit
with #6/0-220. Every off the wood.
scratch must be taken off 7. Make every sto -
if a good polished .surface cut accurately to t
is to be obtained. Blemishes proper depth indicat' ,
show much more after the even though this rel
finish has been applied. For quires more than one
pine, two or three coats of operation. Where these

ood floor wax will ive a - 3 " - o stop-cuts are very
gice creamy finish ifg each Bird Dog Blank 'A' “Mk cedar orpme deep, it is best, usually,

coat is polished well. For to chip up to the cut
cedar, use a good quality auto wax. Three coats in several operations rather than by one deep cut.

will bring out the beautiful grain of the cedar. 8. If you enlarge or decrease the size of any

(See C in Figure I.) article, remember to increase or decrease each
\Vhittling gives you the satisfaction of visualiz- measurement proportionately. From Whining,

ing with your mind first, then seeing with the eye issued by the Chicago Park District.

just what your concept was. You are never too

  
    
  
    
   
   
 
    
 
   
 
   
 
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
   

shape up the legs,
body, and head.

 
  

old or too young to start on a career of whittling, The Western Pine Association, with headquar-
so get a good knife and a block of wood because ters in the Yeon Building, Portland, Oregon, has
Whittlng is fun! issued three booklets which will be of interest to

those who make wood carving and, other forms of

A number of general rules are applicable to wood work their hobby:
most whittling projects. Some of them follow: “Wood Carving for Pleasure,” has been written

I. Take plenty of time on all your work. Whit- “for the person, whether young or old, who likes
' tling requires patience and every project requires to work with wood in creating forms which show
a certain amount of time to do properly. the individual ‘touch of the craftsman and are

2. Use care and judgment in the selection of apart from ordinary hammer and saw work.” This
the wood you use. Try to select dry, seasoned twenty-four page booklet, which is profusely il-
wood with straight, regular grain, free from knots, lustrated, may be secured free in quantities of ten
gnarls, switls and pitchy or sappy areas. or less.

3. Use good knives and keep them razor sharp “Plan Book for the Boy Builder,” is a sixteen
at all times. page booklet, illustrated with photographs and

4. Always chip Off a little at a time instead of sketches, which contains handicraft suggestions
gouging deeply into the for boys. This booklet is
wood. Two or three chip- "Whittling and woodcarving have come down to free in quantities of
removing operations us from the mists of unrecorded time. Man's twelve or less,
carefully made are in- first tool was probably a crude ax evolved from “Wood Turning in the

a sharp-edged war club. His second was the n
knife. He soon discovered the relative ease of Home ‘NOI—kShOp' a I
forming wood. for earliest records already men-

finitely better than a deep

cut made in one Opera' twenty page booklet well

tlon- tion wood casually as the accepted carver's iHUStrated With deSigns

5. Observe detail illus- material. . . . Four thousand—perhaps tive thou- and photographs, contains
trations carefully and fol— sand—Years 39° Where Damlg SlaNdS "0W: general suggestions for
10W suggestions accu_ neollthic man carved pieces of amber into the amateur craftsmen. Free

- likeness of animals in the W ld b d' t ' t
ratel for each 0 eration. . ' ° 3" urg .'5 “c ' ' '
y p of Pomerania a man carved a representation of m quantltles 0f ten or

6. When the knife blade a horse. Abel” 2300 B. QI a Sumerian in Meso_ less.These three little pub-

iS under a  and you po+amja carved a 5+eer ou+ of bone."_—E. J. lications ShQUld be helpfu '
are approaching a stop- Tangerman in Whittling and Woodcarving. in the handcraft program I

 

ODAY THERE’S a new »
breed of hunter!
He’s a sportsman, who, while often mis-

guided, realizes that if he’s to derive recreational

dividends from his investment in equipment and
fees he must give wildlife a break. And this seri-

‘ ous-minded chap is achieving a degree of success,

not by hokus-pokus, but by digging down to the

very taproot of a complex problem.

You’ve got to give him credit!

His first task (and a difficult one) is to con-
vince the landowner that wildlife on his property
is a crop possessing tangible value; that a mink,

for example, happens to be not only an ornamental
animal but also a marketable commodity that rep-

resents cash on four legs.

The second task (which isn’t much easier) is to
sell the idea that “reformed” hunters find no
pleasure whatever in cutting fences, leaving gates
open, trampling crops, tearing down signs, and

' pumping lead into innocent livestock.

Once these ideas start sprouting, the average
farmer displays a downright cooperative attitude.
He now knows, perhaps for the first time in his
life, that ninety per cent of today’s wildlife is on
private farm land. He’s
learned that the gun de-
stroys but five per cent of
birds killed annually, while
the prowling
domestic cat
takes ten times
that amount.
H e ’ s b e e n
shown that
when he ruins
fishing streams
by permitting
silt (his soil)
to choke aquatic
vegetation, he’s
inviting erosion
to steal from
him as surely as
a thief in the
night. He’s seen
the virtue in
using a flushing-

awe-HI-

Forest tires. ninety per cent of which are
caused by human carelessness. take a fright-
tul toll of wildlife. Preventing .them is a
vital factor in any program of conservation.

 

Give Wildlife 8 Break!

By GLENN YERK WILLIAMSON

bar on his mower. And he’s
discovered that by furnish-
ing cover and food for his. feathered guests he
saves money in the form of crops that escape

insect attacks.
I know a farmer who licked a huge gully.

“I built a fence on one side to keep the cattle
out,” he explained, “graded the steep banks,
seeded them with legumes and grass, and then
planted dogwood, wild grape, mulberry and honey-
suckle shrubs. You- should see it now! It’s be-
come a wildlife sanctuary where birds nest, where
pheasants hide in summer. That’s how I ’m giving

wildlife a break !”

Sportsmen in one of the Atlantic seaboard states
are toying with an idea, still in its infancy, that
concerns itself with the future status of quail
shooting. Hunters are required to purchase quail
and to place the birds on selected farms. Farmers
cooperate by providing areas where the birds may
nest, and even guarantee that the nests will not be
molested. One hundred birds were released in one
locality in the spring of 1940, and this year, as
the program gathers mometum, there doubtless
were far more.

In southern Illinois there’s
a hunter-farmer organiza-
tion that resolved to accom-
plish three things: (1) good
will between
farmers and
hunters ; (2)
provision of
wildlife sanctu-
aries ; (3) own-
ing and leasing
areas for hunt-
ing purposes.
Farmers lease
to sportsmen
the right to
hunt on their
land. Sports-
men, in return,
post the land
and hire a game
overseer. To
avoid exploita-

387

388 GIVE WILDLIFE A BREAK!

tlon, membership is so reg-
ulated that there can’t be
more than one for every
300 leased acres. Three
separate tracts (500 acres
each) are set aside as game
preserves, and woe unto the
man who is caught hunting
in them!

Details have been care-
fully worked out. For instance the sportsmen as-
sume legal responsibility for damage they may do
to the farmer’s real or personal property. Before
the hunter can stalk game he is expected to advise
the farmer of his intentions and must, if so re-
quested, produce his membership card. Mr. Farmer
can tell Brother Sportsman what the bag limit is
and what kind of game can be taken. If game is
to be hunted in fields where there is livestock or
where men are working, Mr. Farmer is further
empowered to demand that no hunting be done
unless he gives special permission.

Any violations? Very, very few! You see,
they’re sportsmen!

Proper environmental conditions for the pro-
tection and perpetuation of wildlife have been
given studied attention in mapping present—day
conservation projects, for the restoration of game
—if it is at all possible—must rest on a deter-
mined, concerted etfort to restore as successfully
as possible the faunal habitat essential to each
species. Land, they say, can be reborn. In certain
parts of Pennsylvania, thanks to scientific log-
ging, deer are increasing. The upper peninsula of
Michigan, a region once heavily timbered and
gutted by lumber barons, is responding to kind
treatment and in time will become, as the late Jim
Curwood predicted it would, a sportman’s and
vacationist’s paradise.

V‘Vith road building progressing by leaps and
bounds; with motor cars increasing; with workers
enjoying more time for recreation in easily-reached
woods and fields; with purchases of gasoline,
guns, ammunition, and license fees soaring to dizzy
heights—wildlife never can be brought back to
where it once was. That would be wishful think-
ing in its most asinine form. In fact, we can’t be
sure that the wildlife left will be able to hold its
own against overwhelming odds! But we have
made a start, only a start, in demonstrating our
willingness to study the problem as it ought to be
studied.

One of the most convincing examples of what

est fires to an

"How about more community forests that
can grow man-planted trees. produce val-
uable timber cropsI protect watersheds.
provide wholesome recreation and attract
wildlife? How about more forests that
can be made to grow on the millions of
acres of abandoned farm land reverting
to towns. citiesI and counties for non-
payment of taxes? How about cutting for-
irreducible minimum?"

can be done is the Matt
muskeet Lake project i
eastern North Carolin
Utilizing funds made avai
able by the Migratory W.
terfowl Act, the state and
the Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice (formerly the Biologi
cal Survey) in 1934 acquir-
ed the 50,000 acre exPanse
of shallow marsh-bordered water and are trans
forming it into what will be one of America”
greatest winter quarters for migratory waterfowl.
That’s what duck-stamp money is doing! Return}

 

from the sale of these stamps, which all water

fowl hunters over sixteen must buy, totale

$3,472,582 during the first five years (193d
through 1938) they were offered to the public.

Your modest license fees enable state commisj
sions to dip into funds whereby wildlife areas ma
be purchased, protected, and restocked. Aside
from these law-prescribed fees there are volun-
tary contributions to non—profit wildlife clubs that
supplement the work sponsored by national or-
ganizations such as Ducks Unlimited which have
recognized the fact that seventy per cent of each
potential duck crop is lost before a gun is fired,
and have, by attempting to restore northern breed-
ing grounds, succeeded in boosting the duck popu-
lation by several million birds.

More guns, more license fees ; more license fees,
more wildlife-propagating facilities; more wild-
life-propagating facilities, more wildlife. Simple,
isn’t it? That’s what you think! Ever hear of the
fellow who tried to lift himself by his boot straps?
Some of our conservationists are trying to do the
same thing. It can’t be done!

If our self—imposed program is to give wildlife
the help it desperately needs, we must accomplish
two things: (I) we must so regulate and restrict
shooting that the “take” is below production; (2)

' we must know enough about wildlife to assist the

landowner in raising the kind of wildlife “crop”
his land is best fitted for.

To meet the first requirement, we must place at
the head of our conservation departments men
technically qualified for their specialized job. The

" second requirement is being met through the com-

bined efforts of nine or more state universities in
correlating their “bureaus of research” with those
of the state and federal agencies. Let’s say that
Connecticut State College has chosen fur-bearing

(Continued on page 400)

 

.u-

A knitting proiect on last summer's
playgrounds is likely to be ‘a maior
consideration in planning the winter
recreation program at Manitowoc

   

N A CITY WHERE ten submarines for the United

I States Government are in process of construc-
tion there is naturally much interest in Ameri-
ca’s defense effort, and in Manitowoc, Wisconsin,
, the national defense is receiving wholehearted and
enthusiastic public support. Even the children of
the playgrounds have caught the spirit, and under
the leadership of the Department of Recreation
last summer they made many articles for the Red

Cross.

In initiating the project, Mrs. 'Lucille O’Con-
nell, who is in charge of the activities of the
" women leaders and who teaches handcraft on the
city’s nine playgrounds, one day appeared on the
playgrounds with some knitting needles and a few
almost completed
knitted articles.
Nothing was said,
but the curiosity
of the girls was
aroused by some
of the items and
soon there was a
request for in-
struction in knit-
ting. The following
week when Mrs.
O’Connell ap-
peared on the
playgrounds she
found it literally
packed 'with girls
armed with knit—
ting needles. In
this first session
she gave them gen-
eral instruction,
and then, care-
fully watching the.
results, selected
the girls most

9‘. .
W2.
«A.

laygrounds Aid National Defense

By LESLIE J. MANGIN
Director
Municipal Recreation Department
Manitowoc. Wisconsin

likely to learn rapidly and invited them to attend
daily sessions for a week. When they had mas-
tered the fundamentals they became assistant in-
structors.

Soon the question arose of supplying the yarn,
since many of the girls came from families unable
to buy large quantities of it. So Mrs. O’Connell
approached the Red Cross with an offer to knit
baby sweaters, and immediately several cartons of
yarn arrived at the playgrounds. The girls who
did the knitting ranged in age from seven to fif-

( Continued on page 402)

A four year old boy patiently serves
as a model and is fitted to a sweater

 

389

 

For Their Off-Duty Hours

Dances for Men in Uniform

HE HOUSTON, TEXAS, Recreation Department
Tand its co-sponsoring organizations are con-

ducting dances for men who wear the service
uniform of the United States and for girls who
have been invited by hostesses, chaperons, and the
co-sponsoring organization to whom they must be
personally known. Each girl is required to have a
dance ticket filled out with her name and signed
by her sponsor and an executive of the Houston
Recreation Department. The chairman appoints
five or more hostesses. each of whom selects live
or more chaperons. Each chaperon invites five or
more girls.

Others who attend the dances are the chaperons
who have tickets of admission signed by their
hostesses and an executive of the Recreation De—
partment. The floor committee is composed of
members of the Recreation Department and of the
\VPA recreation staff, and representatives from
the co-sponsoring organization who have special
tickets of admission. There is a Welcoming com-
mittee made up of members of the Recreation De-
partment and representatives of the co-sponsoring
organization. Provision is also made for honor
guests, officials and representatives of the organi-
zations co-sponsoring the dances, and representa-
tives of civic clubs, city officials, and other special
groups who have tickets of admission.

The dances are held from 7:00 to 12:00 P. M.
The requirements for the physical facilities are
that the room used shall be large and accessible,
and the lighting and ventilation good; that there
shall be a sufficient number of chairs and rest
rooms and "checking facilities for men and women.

Rules Governing the Conduct of the Dances

General Rules

There shall be no smoking on the floor either
by boys or girls.

Drinking is discouraged, and
persons showing signs of in—
toxication will be expelled
from the dance.

N o “pass-out” checks will be
issued. If a boy or girl leaves
the building he or she may not
return.

390

So many inquiries on the conduct of
dances for men in uniform continue
to reach us that we are emphasizing
this phase of the program in the arti-
cles appearing each month on com-
munity recreation for men in service.
The rules and regulations presented
here are being successfully used at
the dances sponsored by the Hous-
ton. Texas. Recreation Department.

3,

“Cutting in, “tagging,” or “Robbers’ F0
Trot” is permissible at all times.

Rules for Men
Men must be in service uniform to be admitte .
The stag line should be on the outside of the
dance floor. |
The floor must be kept open for the dancers.
The conduct of the service men determines t
success and continuation of the dances. Therefoit
for your own welfare as well as the consideratioj;
of the girls and sponsors you should so condu
yourselves {that no word of criticism might be

' spoken against you, the girls, or the dances.

Rules for Girls

N0 girl under sixteen years of age should be
given a dance ticket.

No girl should be admitted to the dance who
does not have a properly signed dance ticket.

Evening dresses are preferred.

Girls shall not wear hats, coats, or furs while
dancing.

Girls are expected .to measure up to the highest
standard.

Since the boys are the guests. the conduct and
standards must be set by the girls.

°Supervision of the Dance

The supervision of the dance shall be in charge
of the floor committee. The following rules are
suggested:

I. Each member of the committee is asked to
arrive at seven o’clock and report to the floor
manager for special instructions.

2. The committee men shall see that the rules
are observed. A quiet word may prevent un-
pleasant occurrences.

3. The members of the City Police and Fire De-
partments are cooperating with the floor com-

mittee and the Houston Recre-
ation Department in supervis-
ing the dance.

Committees to Be Appointed
by the Co-Sponsoring
Organization

Invitation Committee. The
invitation committee shall be
responsible for sending tickets

 
  
 
   
 
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   

.'.«

  

Leaders in the commu-
ity, either local or city.

  

Representatives from
, other organizations 'or clubs.

Girls of good character
to attend the dance.

Nora: The defense recrea-
. tion committee and the Hous-
ton Recreation Department are
held directly responsible for the
dance. Therefore utmost care
must be exercised in selecting
the persons who attend.

Refreshment Committee.
The refreshment committee
shall be responsible for the
type and kind of refresh-
ments to be served, bearing
in mind the following:

Light refreshments are
preferred.

Cooling refreshments that
that may be served continu-
ously are de51red.

Beer is not to be served.

Approximately 2,000 guests
are to be served.

Refreshments necessitating

plates and spoons are dis—
couraged.

NOTE: After the type of re-
freshment has been decided the defense recreation com-
mittee will gladly assist the refreshment committee in

securing the necessary amounts at the lowest possible
prices.

Reception Committee. The reception committee
shall be responsible for welcoming the guests.
Every effort should be made to make them feel at
home by making introductions, answering ques—
tions, and creating as friendly an atmosphere as is
possible.

The reception committee shall be responsible for
the registration of the guests. The following
method is suggested:

Attractive girls are seated at three different
tables. The service men register at one table, the
girls register at another, honor guests at a third.
Slips of paper must be provided for the registra-
tion. After the dance has started the younger

girls should be relieved so that they may take
part in the dancing.

    

Courtesy Wisconsin WPA

Dancing is only one of the activities be-
ing conducted. Community groups are
providing club houses and other places
where the men may read. write letters,
and enjoy many other quiet activities.

FOR THEIR OFF-DUTY HOURS 391 .

The reception committee
shall Provide ushers for
honor guests.

NOTE: The defense recrea-
tion committee and the Hous-
ton Recreation Department are
held directly responsible for the
dance. Therefore members of
these organizations shall be at
the door and determine who
shall and who shall not be ad-
mitted to the dance.

Decoration Committee.
The decoration committee
shall be responsible for mak-
ing the entrances, reception
area, and the dance floor as
attractive as possible by any
means at its disposal.

Checking Committee. The
checking committee shall
. provide persons who will be
responsible for checking
hats, coats, wraps, and
packages throughout the
dance. The committee shall
furnish the checking stubs.
The following suggestions may
be useful: '
The biggest rush will be at the
beginning and at the close of
the dance, and extra help should
be provided at these times.
A group should work for an hour and then be
relieved. In this way the checking does not be-
come tiresome, and the girls also may enjoy the

dancing.

Two girls at a time are sufficient except at the
rush periods.

Entertainment Committee. The entertainment
committee shall provide special entertainment that
will fill in during the intermissions or that will add
to the pleasure and enjoyment of the guests dur—
ing the early part of the evening before dancing
gets started. The following suggestions may be
useful:

Some of the entertainment should come from
the damps as .there is much talent there, and it
helps to bring a closer bond between civilian and
army personnel. Singers, instrumental numbers

and the like are preferred.
(Continued on page 408)

Communities Volunteer for Defense Recreatio

At the Recreation Congress at“ Baltimore
volunteers promoting recreation for men
in service will discuss mutual problems

NF. HUNDRED THOUSAND sailors, soldiers, and
0 defense” workers suddenly descend on a

placid, west coast city . . . the once-deserted
sidewalks of a southern village are teeming with
fun-seeking soldiers with nothing to do on long
week ends . . . in a staid New England town
hordes of industrial workers and their families are
looking for a place to live and eat and play.

In uniforms and overalls, the army of defense is
working a three-shift schedule. And when their
work is done, these men and boys want to play—
and play hard. Every week end they march on the
communities of the country looking for fun and
relaxation, friendship and recreation. Each de-
fense community in the country, whether its popu-
lation is 700 or 7,000,000, has been called upon in
this all-out drive for emergency recreation.

This is the problem which hundreds of recrea-
tion workers will bring with them to the Special
Defense Recreation Conference at the National
Recreation Congress, Monday, September 29th.
Here local defense committeemen will meet with
recreation executives, federal ochials, and civic
leaders. At the Baltimore round table they will

discuss ways to meet this new and urgent need for
recreation.

Every community situated near a defense camp
faces a unique problem. Many towns are in the
throes of industrial booms, yet no two situations
are alike. Conference delegates will all be facing
individual emergencies but through cooperative
and creative discussion they may learn how other
communities have met and solved problems similar
to their own. Representatives from defense coun-
cils in many parts of the country will describe the
situations found in their cities and then outline the
steps taken to set up all-round, creative recreation

programs for civilian defense workers and service
men from near-by camps.

Hard-headed civic leaders who have been facing
overwhelming problems during the past months

will not suggest mere theoretical solutions. They
will have facts and figures, failures and successes

392

     

from which to draw conclusions. They will spe
frankly in an effort to learn from their own exper
ence and that of others.

Working with community leaders will be feder
ofEcials who have been sizing up the local situati
since the emergency program first got under wa .
These men are in a strategic position to obser
the situation from a national point of view, to di
cuss the whole picture of defense recreation, to
outline progress made up to date, and to plan f0
future needs. Three key men from the Feder
Security Agency will Speak during the day. Pa
V. McNutt, Coordinator of Health, Welfare, an
Related Defense Activities, will emphasize the in
portance placed by the federal government on rec-
reation for men in uniform and defense workers
during his evening speech. Charles P. Taft, As-
sistant Coordinator, will discuss the whole prob-
lein of defense recreation and how it is being
handled. The work of the Division of Recreation
will be described by its director, Mark McCloskey.

Morale officers from the Army and Navy will
join in the conference as representatives of the
men in uniform. Delegates will hear Lieutenant
Colonel M. M. Montgomery of the Office of the
Chief of the Morale Branch of the War Depart-
ment and Lieutenant Commander Arthur T.
Noren, representing the Navy Department, de-
scribe the work of the morale divisions of the
armed forces. Later they will have an Opportunity
to question the ofEcers about programs which ap-
peal most to the men. Representatives from army
corps areas will attend special meetings to discuss
recreation programs within the camps and the re-
lationship of morale officers to civilian defense
workers.

Monday’s t'wo-part defense conference will sig-
nalize the opening of the Recreation Congress. At
the morning meeting there will be a representative
gathering of committee members and ofEcials re-
sponsible for recreation programs in local commu-
nities near training camps and stations. Several
chairmen of defense recreation committees will

 

COMMUNITIES VOLUNTEER FOR DEFENSE RECREATION 393

outline specifically the
problems their communities
have faced, what has been
done thus far to meet them,
and list questions that need
clarification. Government
and military officials will
then describe their part in
the program and suggest
ways in which the splendid
contribution of local com-
munities can be made even
more serviceable to the de—
fense program. The after-
noon will be devoted to a
round-the-board discussion
of questions raised by com-
mittee members, local of-
ficials, and others interested
in the defense recreation
problem.

What questions will these
men and women raise?

 

Men and women in the
midst of setting up a com-
mittee want to know what
form of local organization
has permitted all important
agencies in the community
to share in the responsibility
for defense recreation. They
are wondering how to select
officers and what effective
subcommittees should be
set up.

In some localities a group
of small communlties are
sharing in a single program.
\Vhat are the best adminis-
trative procedures for this
type of defense area? “7 hat
new techniques of adminis-
tration have been devised
for defense camp communi-
ties? To meet what special

situations?

\Vhat PTOblemS do the)’ Dr. Rowland Haynes. (above). Presidenf of fhe Uni- Community COOPCTa‘
face? Many Of them Will versify of Omaha and Chairman of fhe Defense tion is the key to pro-

come to the Congress Recrea’rion Commiffee.
William E. Spadden. Chairman of fhe Defense Rec-

rea’rion Commi’r’reeI Ranfoul, IllinoisI will address
fhe Defense Recrea’rion Conference on Monday
morning, Sepfember 29fhl on fhe subiecf, "lmpacf

from great Cities, many
from small towns and
rural areas. Each will

Omaha. Nebraska.

arid gram success. Puzzled

local committeemen are
wondering what pre-
cisely is the relation of

have a unique PrOblem, of fhe Defense Program on Local Communi’ries." the local COmmIlnit)’

but all will be working
toward the same goal
—an integrated program of
leisure—time activities for the
men in uniform, the de-
fense workers and their
families. .

Discussion topics for the
conference will fall general-
ly under nine headings——
community organization,
program administration,
community cooperation and
agency relationships, gen-
eral and social program. fa-
cilities, finances, personnel,
publicity, and planning for
the future.

Already suggestions and
questions are pouring into
the Congress office from
recreation workers planning
to attend the conference.

 

group to the Federal
Security Agency, to the
U. S. O. and local agencies
within it, to the WPA and
PW'A, to state councils. If
there is overlapping of pro-
grams, where does final re-
sponsibility for the recreation
program lie? How can un-
healthy competition among
agencies be eliminated?
And then the all-impor—
tant problem of program!
What is a well-balanced pro-
gram for a defense camp or
industrial area? \Nhat fa-
cilities are needed? What
activities? Many camps are
relatively far from commu-
nities. How can the soldier
come to town? When he
does come, is he made to
feel at home? \Vhat is the

394 COMMUNITIES VOLUNTEER FOR DEFENSE RECREATION‘

best means of introducing him to the community,
of fostering hospitality? What percentage of
soldiers is actually reached by the recreation pro-
gram? Just what does the soldier want to do?

Industrial workers and their families are equally
in need of an all-round leisure-time program.
\Nhat recreation should be provided in housing
units constructed for the families of industrial
workers? What kind of pay day program will
appeal most to the men? Are plans being made for
colored troops and their families?

One of the biggest responsibilities facing recrea-
tion leaders is the extending of community hospi—
tality. W'hat effective ways have been found by
America’s “home towns” for including the boy in
uniform? What has been done to express the
friendly attitude of townspeople toward the soldier
and sailor? What methods have proved best for
enlisting and registering young women for dances?
Is the community planning events for the men who

do not dance?

Since service clubs and defense centers are the
focal point in a community program, these build-
ings will have an important place in the discussion.
What has been done to adapt existing buildings
for use as soldiers’ centers? What can be done to
have schools designed on community-use bases?
Will the facilities set up for the week end be used
during the week or left idle? Can these buildings
be used for a permanent program after the emer-
gency?

Every community has a financial problem. Dele-
gates will want to hear about extra appropriations
made in some cities. What money-making methods
have proved successful? When will the federal
government and U. S. 0. step in to help over-
burdened communities, and what help is to be ex-
pected from them? Is the community cooperating
by offering special rates and privileges to the men
in uniform? To what extent are they discriminated
against by raised prices?

Then there is the problem of personnel, profes-
sional and volunteer. And of publicity—that all-
important medium for establishing community
support and good relations. All these questions
have been suggested by men and women now in
the midst of working and planning—men and
women who need practical answers to these
problems.

And what of the future? When the emergency

is over, the nation will discharge its civilian army
and send its defense workers home. Recreation

l

programs must be revised for the reconstruction.
Precautionary means can be taken now to protect

the normal services of a recreation department;

children, older folks, and women need more than
ever and will continue to need the morale-building
values of a creative leisure-time program. Far-
sighted leaders will take advantage of the current
crisis to focus attention on public recreation as a
vital need for continued national health and unity.

There are carry-over values in the work of the
Federal Security Agency which must not be over- .
looked. This program may become the proving
ground of increased cooperation among social
agencies in the future.

There will be an equally critical but different
morale problem after the emergency, and it is in-
evitable that recreation will play an increasingly
vital part in the new way of life. The leisure-time
problems of reconstruction will demand a wide-
awake and resourceful personnel. Recreation work-
ers, knee deep in the problems of today’s all—out
defense, must and will take time out to plan for
the future when there will be another chance to
help make democracy work in peace time.

 

Andrew Broaddus. Chairman of the Defense
Recreation Committee of Louisville. Ken-
tucky. will also speak at the Monday morn-
ing defense session of the Recreation Con-
gress. He will discuss emergency leisure-
time problems faced by local communities.

\

 

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

I O GRAPH Y of Stanley Coulter. “The Dean,”

an account of his career and of his convic-
tions. Purdue Alumni Office, Memorial Union
Building, Lafayette, Indiana, 1940. $2.15. Of in-
terest to recreation workers is the growth of the
state park idea in Indiana, Dean Coulter’s effort
to save the fine virgin forest at Turkey Run State
Park, and the emerging State Department of Con-

servation.

Bird Food. The “bitter ends” of peanuts are
not used in making peanut butter. This is one
cheap source of a delectable bird food.

Blue prints of leaves or flowers. Obtain day-
light printing paper from a draftsman’s supply
house. Expose to sunlight until paper turns blue
and then the color fades away. Develop paper for
ten minutes in potassium bichromate (tablespoon
of crystals to two gallons of water). Wash in
running water and dry between newspapers under
pressure.

Born Naturalist. Gordon Acomb, president of
the Cincinnati Audubon Society, saw a koda—
chrome photograph by Arthur A. Allen of Cornell
University who made the first natural—color snap-
shots of birds for the National Geographic M aga-
zine. The picture was called “An Eastern Blue-
bird Surveys His Garden Realm.” Right then
and there he resolved to get a colored movie of a
similar scene—a bluebird on hollyhocks. Al-
though he works days and takes courses at the
University at night, he enlisted the services of
Mrs. E. G. Hutchinson, Loveland, Ohio, and by
daily maneuvering they moved the bluebirds’ nest
from fence post to fence post and hnally across
the street until they were in the hollyhocks.

We like Gordon Acomb’s enthusiasm. Where
such persistence will take
him is an unsung saga. We
predict that it will be onward
and upward. And the spark
was a kodachrome of blue-
birds in the hollyhocks.

Conservation. A new maga-
zine has been launched by the

Alabama Department of Con-

"Nature-grams." says Cap'n BillI "can-
not be standardized. In many schools
it is still true that they must be on
page 23 at a given time. This is not
a cardinal sin of recreation programs.
Although some systems are limited to
golf because they have golf clubs. they
do not need to eliminate nature recre-
ation because they have no nature."

servation to be devoted to wildlife, forestry. and
state parks.

Conservation Education. “Conservation and
Citizenship,” Renner and Hartley. D. C. Heath
and Company, New York, 1940. 367 pp. $1.52.
Has practical exercises and activities.

Conservation. “My Country ’Tis of Thee—The
Use and Abuse of Natural Resources,” Mitchell,
Bowman and Phelps. Macmillan Company, New
York. 335 pp. $3.50. Striking text and illus-
trations.

Conservation. Science students of John Mar-
shall and James Ford Rhodes High Schools, Cleve-
land, Ohio, have made a neighboring park a show
place by grafting seedling apples and hawthornes
with pink, rose and red flowering crabs. This was
done under the direction of Gabriel Simon, Cuya-
hoga County 4—H Club agent. Mr. Simon says
that this prevents vandalism.

Coordinated Recreation Program. Allen T.
Edmunds, Nashville, Tennessee, has been desig-
nated by the National Park Service to make a
study of public recreation facilities and needs of
the eight states in the Tennessee and Cumberland
River watersheds. Forests, wildlife, and nature
recreation are major considerations.

Craft. “How to Make Costume Jewelry and
Accessories from Nature Materials at Little Cost”
is a twenty page pamphlet issued by the Recrea-
tion Division of the Chicago Park District. Source
materials are corn, cranberries, acorns, peach
stones, nuts, coconut shells, and pine cones.

Day Camp, Cincinnati. Between April 15 and
June 17 fifty school groups arranged to go to
“California Woods” where nature activities were
carried on by the municipal
Recreation Commission. From
fifty to seventy went in each
group. Bert Lawson, who
emerged from his Chrysalis
stage at the time of the Na-
tional Recreation School, is
assisted by Warren Slocombe.

The greatest problem in

395

396 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

the area has been the protection of the four hun-
dred species of native flowers. Local boys were
the worst offenders. Twenty of them were or—
ganized into a Junior Ranger group and are now
an asset instead of a liability. They are quite apt
to jump out from back of a tree if a visitor is in-
discreet enough to pick a flower. In spite of the
dire predictions of University botanists, the carpet
of native plants is greater than ever. Conserva-
tion education is possible.

“Electricity, How Used on the Farm,” Cornell _

Extension Bulletin 410. Cornell University,
Ithaca, New York, 1939. $.09. Well illustrated.
Good, too, for camp installation.

Fish. “My Fish Friends,” Myron E. Shoe-
maker. Gray Printing Company, Du Bois, Penn-
sylvania. $.60. Simple story of common species.

“Forest Fire Study for 4-H Clubs,” published
by Michigan State College, Extension Division,
East Lansing. Club Bulletins 31 and 31-A. For-
est hres could be prevented if everyone knew.

Fossil Plants. “An Introduction to the Study
of Fossil Plants,” John Walton. Macmillan Com-
pany, New York. 188 pp. $3.75. Clear style and
excellent illustration.

“Garden, Do You Know Your,” Gladys M.
Goshorn. Oxford University Press, New York.
310 pp. $2. 50. A garden quiz book.

Guidance, among recreationists, means giving
young people the ,opportunity to find out their in-
terests and aptitude's. W ithout doubt some of the
hobbyists in your bailiwick have the talents, capa-
cities, and inclinations to enter the new profession
of leadership in nature recreation.

Highway Zoning. The American Automobile
Association and the American Planning and Civic
Association have worked out a general model in
roadside development and in establishing highway
protective areas. It has aroused a great deal of
interest and is being considered by most state
legislatures. Traffic hazards, as well as destruc-
tion of beauty and reduction of property values,
require zoning as the most effective remedy.

Hiking. “The Valley Whose Name is Death,”
E. J. Edwards. San Pasqual Press, Pasadena.
California. 122 pp. An account of the experi-
ences of the Sand Walking Expedition which left
Salt Lake City in 1849 for California gold helds.

Humane Education with particular reference to
the nature program in the elementary school is the
objective of the Amrita Island Summer School

'competent guidance—mguidance not to regiment

Conference, Cautumet, Massachusetts, under th
auspices of the Animal Rescue League of Boston
Robert F. Sellar is president. Teachers may re
ceive four hours credit.

Indians. “Penobscot Man: The Life History 0
a Forest Tribe in Maine,” Frank G. Speck. Uni
versity of Pennsylvania Press, Philadelphia. 32
pp. $4.00. Scientihc and readable, by a man wh
camped with the tribe.

“Man Stands Alone,” Julia Huxley. Harper an
Brothers, New York. 297 pp. $2.75. Interestin
and scientific discussion of man and this chaoti
world.

Museums. “Youth in Museums,” Eleanor M
Moore. University of Pennsylvania Press, Phila
delhpia. 115 pp. $2.00. An interesting surve
useful for leaders.

National Monuments and Parks.

Population in Density
Year Millions Per Sq. Mi.
1800 5 6.1
1900 75 25.6
1940 132 44.

The thirteen original states were shortsighted i
going out for national parks. Some of the inspira
tional scenery has gone, but some irreplaceable
resources can still be permanently protected.

Nature Game. Try the EST game for you
locality. The largest animal to give milk may b
the horse, for example. The smallest animal i
summer that has feathers may be the hummin

bird.

Nature-Grams. Aunt Epi—Gram says, “Onel
nature-gram does not make a pro-gram.” There is
an ancient Chinese proverb that “One thread does.
not make a rope.”

Nature Guiding. “It is not a subject for debate'
that all the youngsters from Hell’s Kitchen, the
Capone neighborhood in Chicago, and the ‘Grapes
of \Nrath’ country need a touch of nature and
the out of doors. . . . All can gain much under

 

but to unfold individual capacities and the truths
which nature tells.”———Harry E. Curtis, Planning
and Civic Comment, October-December, 1940.

Ornithology. “Modern Wilderness,” William

A. Babson. Doubleday, Doran, New York. 261
pp. $3.00. Interesting narratives, mostly about
birds.

Radio-Nature. Nature Sketches are being
broadcast for the fourth successive year from

(Continued on page 406)

World at Play

 

LAST winter,
in the Irem
Temple Audi-
. torium, the
Civic Opera Company of Wyoming Val-
ley presented its fourth Gilbert and Sul-
livan production, “The Mikado,” before
an audience of more than a thousand peo-
ple. The company, sponsored by the Play-
ground and Recreation Association of
Wyoming Valley, has been in existence
' for four years. It has its own board of
directors of fifteennpeople and a constitu-
- tion under which it operates. The director,
I Miss Edith Hoffman, who was formerly
' director of music at Coughlin High School,
has been with the group since its incep-
, tion. Membership of the company in-
cludes fifty-six men and women repre-
senting for the most part business and
professional people. During the past year
eight concerts were given in addition to
the Opera, “The Mikado.” These concerts were
usually excerpt programs from the operas and
I were presented in high schools and before service
clubs. Costumes and scenery for “The Mikado”
were made by local people who were interested.
The company is entirely self-supporting and dur-
ing 1940 made $1,119.21. It cost $924 to produce
“The Mikado.”

Civic Opera Company
Produces “Mikado”

 

 

 

IN THE 1940 report of
the Houston, Texas,
Department of Recre-
ation there appears the

Houston’s New Park
and Play Areas

 

the following:

“The increasing number of facilities made avail-
able to the public through the collaboration of
civic-minded Houstonians and the farsighted policy
of the city officials represents another forward step
in public recreation in Houston.” The report tells
of Milby Park, the gift of Mr. and Mrs. George
Hamman, which has been turned over to the city
for the use of all the people of Houston. The
eighty-acre wooded tract, with its spacious club
house of Texas limestone and its picnic shelter, is
ideal for public gatherings and picnics. Mason
Park, recognized as Houston’s best equipped all-

 

‘ 7.
5h,
In!
*2
“a
*h
N

&

round playground. is to have further equipment
through the bequest of the donor, Mrs. John T.
Mason, who left an additional $25,000 for the
improvement of the park. The needs of the col-
ored citizens were recognized by Miss Annette

.Finnigan, who left $25,000 by the terms of her

will for the improvement of the park she had
previously given.

ON JULY 21st the play-
grounds at Andover,
Massachusetts. held an
aluminum parade. The
children made quantities of little red, white, and
blue posters and attached them to stilt sticks. They
read: “Playgrounds Instead of Dugouts,” “All for
Uncle Sam,” “Pots and Pans Today—Planes To-
morrow,” and “All for Our Defense.” The chil-
dren then collected aluminum pots and pans and
borrowed all the flags available. Almost eight
hundred children took part in the parade, each
carrying from seven to ten pieces of aluminum;
some of the boys had dozens of pieces trailing
behind them on strings. Several children brought
in a hundred pieces. A truck was secured to carry .
the surplus.

Playgrounds Rally
for Defense

397

 

  

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
madel Aluminum and bronze. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
'treated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who lmow the value of a good tourna-
ment shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHDE CU.

46l0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

        
   
   
   
       
   
   
 

Montreal, Canada, is another city in which the
playground children have collected aluminum.

Here the week of July 28-August 2, 1941 was
known as “Aluminum Salvage Week.”

. A Music Camp in Nebraska—Last summer

for the first time the WPA, acting through the
Recreation and Music Projects, conducted a sum-
mer music camp in Nebraska. At Camp Sheldon
near Columbus, boys and girls were offered a
week of recreation. Rehearsals of band, orches-
tra, chorus groups and classes in the various in-
struments and in voice alternated with instruction
in practical handcraft. There was time off for
boating, swimming, horseback riding, hiking, and
similar sports. Evenings were given over to im-
promptu entertainment programs, camp fire par-
ties, and concerts. Capable leaders conducted five
hours of music each day and a regular period of
handcraft. Each camper had certain duties in the
operation of the camp, which were assigned daily
and performed cooperatively.

FOR AN ALL-AMERICAN PARTY

For an All-American Party
(Continued from page 378)

He thought of her beauty he never could (tire).

But if he could :win her? Oh, that was the rub!

She came from the erudite city, the (hub),

While he in New York saw the first light of day

And lived near the (battery), down by the bay.

His deep love to (shift) he tried all in vain.

It would (clutch) at his heart ’till it gave him a pain.

Quoth he, “I can tell you it is not a joke!”

So then of his ardent affection he (spoke):

“Oh, have you for me of hope just a (spark)?

Ah! Then I’d be happy, I can but remark.

But if you refuse me, it’s certainly clear

My heart, it would weight quite a (tonnéau—ton, o
my dear.

Indeed, I am pining, sweetheart, for your sake,

And if you refuse me, my heart it will (brake—break)

The maid to his pleadings did graciously yield.

Said she: “You may be my protector and (shield).

At some future day I will be your dear wife,

Together we gladly will (motor) through life.”

   
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
   

Political Rallies

Presidential Campaign. (Two from each group
Divide a large sheet of paper into three colum
heading them respectively, Reds, Whites, a
Blues. Then divide each column in half vertical
providing two columns for each team—the 1
one to represent that team’s presidential can
date; the other, its vice-presidential candida
Rule the sheet horizontally into fourteen spac
Hang this scoring sheet on the wall.

Pin a slip of paper (of individual team color
in the bottom squares. Letter the slip as follow

Reds

R—presidential candidate
D—vice-presidential candidate

Whites Blues
W—presi'dent B—president
H—vice-president L—vice-president l

The six candidates are invited to sit on chairs i
the center of the room, and they might be pr;
vided with such appurtenances as beards, mousl
taches, hats. Each is given an opportunity to mak
three campaign promises to his public. The can
didates remain in the center of the room as the
game begins.

Thirteen squares for each of the six letter:s
given above are sorted from a set of anagram
letters. They are shuffled and’placed face down on
a table. The leader turns one square at a time.
A scorekeeper raises the slip containing that letter
one space in the column. Another square is turned,

   
   

nd the slip for that letter is moved up a space.
he game continues until the slips for both can-
. idates of one team are at the top of their col-
lmns. The winning candidates are congratulated
nd their team scores a point.

t

Grand Finale

Each group chooses a patriotic or typically
American song from song books distributed to all
of the players. Each team renders its songs, to be
rated by the judges on four points: selection, pre-
sentation, spirit, and participation. The judges
name the winning group.

All of the guests might oin in singing some old
, favorites while the judges tabulate the final scores.
If a prize is desirable, a box of candy might then
be awarded to the winning team. At any rate, the
announcement of final scores “will undoubtedly be
received amidst much ringing of the cowbell!

THE

CONTENTS

Organization and Adminis-
tration of Playgrounds:
planning programs, keeping
reports, safety, rules, etc.
First Aid: treatment of sim-
ple injuries. Low-Organized
Games: equipment, tech-
niques, variations, etc. High-
Organized Games: rules,
diagrams, directions, etc.
Dual Games. Tournaments
and Contests: methods,
rules, etc. Folk Dances and
Singing Games: words,
music and directions. Play-
ground Feature Events: sug-
gestions and directions for
entire year. Storytelling and
Pram-ratios: how to organ-
ize, costuming and staging,
plays and stories. Nature
Study: suggestions and proj-
ects. Handcraft: descrip-
tions of projects. Quiet
Games. Stunts and Puzzles.
Planning and Conducting
the Party Program. Etc.

with music.

 

SEND NO MONEY
Simply mail this
Coupon NOW!

FROM CITY AUDITORIUM TO RECREATION CENTER 399

From City Auditorium to Recreation

Center
(Continued from page 373)

very successful with large attendances are as fol—
lows: a Hallowe’en celebration; a Christmas party
for children and a Christmas ball for adults; a
winter carnival ball; a St. Valentine’s party; a St.
Patrick’s Day celebration; an Easter egg hunt; a
ping-pong tournament; a badminton tournament;
an indUStrial basketball league and tournament;
a grammar school boys’ basketball league and
tournament; bi-weekly dances; a spring semi-
formal dance, and Sunday afternoon concerts by
the young people’s junior symphony orchestra.
The City of Barre employs two recreation lead-
ers, and the \VPA supplies three additional lead-
ers to supervise activities in this municipal center.

Playground Problems
(Continued from page 358)

and wading pools—the more the better. However,
I believe they need supervision while using them.

The First book that combines ALL the material that
a playleader needs PLUS complete instructions about his

functions and duties . . .

BY MARGARET E. MULAC

Supervisor, Division of Recreation, Cleveland, 0.

PLAYLEADERS’ MANUAL

This complete handbook brings into one volume suggestions, proj-
ects and program-planning aids for the many-sided job of play-
leader. The material will prove valuable everywhere, in cities or
rural communities; for those working under adverse as well as
ideal conditions. While originally planned as a text in playground
and camp courses, the book contains useful material for teachers

in schoolrooms, gyms or

   :IIIIIIIIIIIIIII-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
counselors, 4H club lead-
ers, athletic directors and
social recreation leaders,
65 illustrations, 30 songs

Harper &, Brothers, 49 E. 33rd St., New York

PleaSe send me THE PLAYLEADERS’ MANUAL. I will pay
post man $2.75 plus postage. If I am not entirely
satisfied I can return the book within 5 days and my
money will be refunded.

A (1 dress  

-- —-—I—IIII-I-I-III-IIIIIUIIIIII-IIll-IDOIIIIIMID’COIIIIOIIIOIIIICIIIIOIIHIIICM

J

City .. ....................................................... .. State ............................. .........

E] I enclose $2.75 I] Check [3 Money Order and

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
i
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
i
I
I
I
I
=
I you pay postage. Same refund privilege applies.

400 GIVE WILDLIFE A BREAK!

 
   
   

NH”

40“
an
H

0-5!!!
3

Complete line of gymnasium.
playground and pool equip-
ment. Famed "Junglegym"
Climbing Structure -— illus-

trated—as low as $50.40
P. O. B. Factory. Write for
literature.

' 1‘
THE: 1. E. PORTER CORPORATION

ILLINOIS

OTTAWA *

Teaching children to play happily together in a
group flts them to cope with life as nothing else
possibly can. Supervising their play is great fun
and tremendously illuminating. You will find out
more about your own child after he has played
with a group of twenty for three hours than you
ever knew before, because he is being himself, not
your little boy. Such knowledge is often worth
the price of the playground.

Supervising play keeps a mother in touch with
her own children, her children’s playmates and
their parents as nothing else will. It promotes
neighborhood cooperation and solidarity.

Give Wildlife a Break!

( Continued from page 388)

animals as its Number One problem, and that
Jones, who is interested in this aspect of wildlife,
has decided to explore its possibilities. He does all
the work; the professors merely look on. When
he is through, the college compiles his notes, sends
a detailed report to each of the other schools and
to all—state game departments, and gradually the
vital data seeps down to the general public.

 

. STUDENT COUNCIL 0 DEBATE .
. CLUBS 0 PUBLICATIONS

o . HOME ROOMS o TRIPS

§ . ATHLETICS o DRAMATICS

,, . MUSIC . ASSEMBLY

g o FINANCING ACTIVITIES o SOCIAL EVENTS OF THE

 

For Practical Ideas That Aid the Promotion of
CHARACTER and CITIZENSHIP

SCAOO/ ../4€ iuified

School Activities Publishing Co.

|5|5 Lane Street

“It beats the dickens what they’re doing now
days l” a hunter recently said to me. “I’ve oft
noticed,” he continued, “that birds missed by gu
later died from lead poisoning. Danged if th
aren’t doing something about it! They’ve r.
fected an alloy shot containing two per cent I
magnesium. It has all the required ballistic pro
erties and will disintegrate within twenty-f0
hours after contact with moisture. Waterfowl
eat it with immunity. Boy, that’s giving wildli
a break!”

The possibilities for doing other things are pra
tically unlimited, if we’d only do them. Yank
ingenuity can meet the challenge. Let’s show t
Indian, our first real conservationists, that we, to I
are big enough to give wildlife a break!

     

Adventure Cruising to Alaska
(Continued from page 384)

could be formed for the purpose, which won
serve all members, and be so flexible as to m
the needs of various sized groups as they devel
The author would be glad to hear from anyo -
interested in this proposal. The plan has ma .
advantages, and certainly is intriguing as an ed
cational experiment.

An expedition to Alaska would be a mo -
rugged and more adventuresome experience th
the usual trip to Eurépe. It would require mo -
initiative and self-reliance on the part of crui -
members and would involve real responsibility f I
all associated with it. But it is an attractive ch
lenge. The desire for new experience is a bas
human wish; and for most of us, the zest of life
at its, growing edge.

60 Herd

UP-TO-DATE SCHOOL
Subscription Price $2.00

Topeka. Kansas

07”

PABTBIDGE and MO0NEY
Illustrated List price $2.00

0)

672 pages

   

‘- 7
.  ‘m/x/

<> ' I

  

I

 

 

'
l The Place of Handicrafts in Our
Schools

(Continued from page 375)

ade by the students in their leisure time and are
1 now being used daily during the noon hour
H activities.
I.

_ To correlate the craft program with pioneer
i days, it was decided to make a study of the possi—
I bilities of corn husks which were used in early
days for many purposes. As door mats they served
to clean muddy shoes and when water was poured
over them, would emerge none the worse for the
use. Wallpaper racks, whisk broom holders,
hearth brooms, baskets, and even table mats were
made of the soft textured, creamy inner leaves of
the husks. We found that held corn husks pro-
vide the best and strongest material. It is neces-
sary to keep the husks in a dry place as moisture
causes molding.

First the husks were dyed with deep autumn
shades of brown, green, or red. After they had
been folded and sewed together end on end as in
braided woolen rugs, they were braided. For bas-
kets and hats they were folded into little pointed

THE PLACE OF HANDICRAFTS IN OUR SCHOOLS

I Time Out ‘

IN the fascinating pages of this recent book
young people will find a wealth of appealing sug-
gestions for the worth—while use of their leisure
time. All of these may be undertaken at little or
no expense; many of them will prove to be so
interesting that they will very likely become
delightful life-long hobbies. Among the intriguing
pursuits discussed are: camping, hiking, bird study,

photography, amateur astronomy, archery, leather-

401

——___

 

craft, nature clubs, puppets and marionettes,

music activities, community enterprises,

motoring, picnics, making collections, etc.
Much useful and authoritative information
is supplied in regard to state recreation
agencies and hiking facilities. The lively style,
the interesting illustrations, and amusing

drawings add charm and value.

ADIEBICAN BO0K OohlPANY

New York
Atlanta

Cincinnati

Dallas

Chicago Boston
San Francisco

pieces and sewed on buckram. Some of the husks
were tied into bunches to make hearth brooms and
floor mops, or to serve as a thatch roof for a
birdhouse.

'At the present time the club is making a study
of leather craft. Billfolds, key cases, and other
articles are in the process of being completed.
Some of the girls are making belts from pyro cord.
Indian designs are burned in round pieces of cork
and then painted with-water colors. Six holes are
punched in each piece through which four strands

.of red and white pyro cord are inserted. Round

braiding is applied to the four strands and iinished
up with square braiding. This is a very interest-
ing project for girls as the belts are attractive
when completed and the process provides valuable
experience in both round and flat braiding.

Once every month the club meets after supper,
and at this time the parents are invited to see the
work of the pupils and to bring handicrafts of
their own. This fellowship, enjoyed by both par-
ent and child, is proving a worth-while adventure
for all concerned.

As we offer our students courses in Smith—

(Continued on page 404)

402 CREATIVE CRAFTS FOR RECREATION

 

MITCHELL

Betterbilt J
PLAYGROUND 

  
 
 

Assure safe. healthful play with Mitchell Playground and
Swimming Pool Equipment. Its heavier construction. with
dangerous hazards eliminated. has made it extra safe.
and the choice of many careful school and recreational
directors. Affords the greatest possible variety of exercise
and pleasure with complete safety. Write for literature.

Mitchell Products include Fold-O-Leg Tables, Dairy
Barn Equipment and Folding Stages for Music Groups

MII'CHEI]. MFG. C0.

3034 W. FOREST HOME AVE. MILWAUKEE. WISCONSIN

_ SINCE 1396 _

Creative Crafts for Recreation
(Continued from page 371)

ash trays, book ends, bird houses, napkin holders,
and countless other objects. The soldering iron is
a useful art tool. The desire to cut and solder and
to shape things with the hands seems to be almost

universal among young people.

Paste oil colors are used to work out color
schemes in basketry, woodwork, clay modeling,
puppetry and similar projects. The purchase of
paste oil colors in half—pint cans may be made at
greatly reduced cost. Raw umber and other colors
may also be bought in bulk and mixed with linseed
oil or alcohol. The use of these materials makes
possible an infinite variety of color designs and
gives broad scope to the creativeness of the crafts—
man. The paste colors, which cost from twenty to
fifty cents a can, may be used for almost any type
of painting, including murals, woodwork, and

walls.

Wallpaper is another inexpensive craft material.
The effectiveness of its use depends upon the in-
genuity of the leader. Discarded sample books
may be used for cutting out doll clothes and other
objects for small children, and in training them in
the simple use of the shears and the paste pot.
Some of the things that can be made out of wall-
paper samples are hot pads, doll furniture, cover-
ings for purses, scrap books, waste baskets, boxes
for the- desk or dresser and many other objects.

The creative artist can glean from this discus-
sion many suggestions that may be fruitful in de-
veloping new and varied sources of materials for
use in the crafts shops. The craft programs out-

   
 
   
  
   
 
  
    
    
    
    
    
  
    
    
 
 

lined in this article have been tested in the sho
Central Community House. The lield is vital
capable of interesting the youths and adults 0
walks ofqlife. The history of art has taugh
that the closer we are to an elementary knowl
of material the closer and the greater are the
sibilities for the developing of a unique
genuine folk art. '

Playgrounds Aid National Deiens
(Continued from page 389)

teen years, and it is an interesting fact that a] t
the girls, including the seven-year-olds, had t i
first sweaters accepted. To date all contributi :
have been acceptable to the Red Cross.
Regular class sessions were held one day a
week on every playground for an hour and a
In connection with her advisory duties,
O’Connell stopped at each playground at 1
once every day to check on the leaders’ acti
programs. and at that time the girls came to
for help. Those who made mistakes rectified t1
cheerfully, though frequently it involved m

ripping.

v

l
l

3

Boys, Too, Were Interested

The universal appeal of the project is pro '1
by the interest of the boys in the work. T110 :1
many of the younger boys did nothing more tl :
sit through the class watching the sweaters t ’
form, others took a more active part in the p c-
ess, rolling the yarn from the skeins into b 3
Some of the boys braided yarn, making the “idi t
delight” cords used to tie sweaters at the ne k
These activities 0n the part of the boys origina --
as rainy day pastimes in the playground shel er
house, but soon they were taken out into the r .
as an occupation for the hot periods of swelteri 5
summer days.

Fifty-seven skeins of yarn were knitted int
twenty—four sweaters during the lirst two week
of the activity, and production picked up as th ‘
girls became more proficient in the manipulatio
of the needles.

The carry-over values of the program have
already become evident. The girls have petitionec
the Recreation Department to continue the knit
ting clubs as a winter activity and to supply place
where they may meet at night to knit. Lessons 0 ;
responsibility and reliability have been learned .
and the girls have become more aware, througl
this activity, of world-wide needs and conditions .

WEAVER - WINTARK BALLS

*******

l
l

  

   
 
   

l
.
’

 

uncut/icing
IN THE .WINTARK LINE:

Introducing the new Wintark “A” Football and the

UNPRECEDENTED POPULARITY

SETS ALI- TIME H IGH IN SALES! Wintark “A” Volleyball. In these new “A” line balls we
This Year’s sales of Weaver.Wimark Balls has been have adapted the same construction as used in our noted
unprecedented—definite proof of superiority in “A” Basketballs. Like the “A” basketballs they are
everything a ball should be. Notwithstanding this Cordurmwound and have a special square_woven high
skyrocketing increase in orders, plus doing our bit . . ’ . .

to "Keep .Em Flying,” we have lived up to our grade llnlng material. To users accustomed to the superlor
promise to give prompt service. Whatever your quality and long service of Wintark “A” basketballs, we
needs may be in . . . recommend the new Wintark “A” Footballs, Volleyballs,

Basketballs . . Footballs . . Volleyballs and socce’bans-

Soccerballs . . Water Polo . . Softballs     .

you can always be sure that Weaver-Wintark is a

dependable source of supply. ' Introducing a new appearance in the Weaver Scholastic
* line of rubber cover balls for schools, playgrounds and

recreation centers. The Scholastic line is the top quality

AT THE CONVENTION in Weaver balls and the realism now achieved in the
We invite you to our exhibit look and feel of leather is noteworthy. Be sure to see them.

THE WEAVER-WINTARK SALES CQ. * WINTARK. INCORPORATED
r Lebannon. Pa. 4606 W. 2ls+ Street. Cicero. Illinois

 

' It you are East of Denver. address It you are West of Denver. address
l
I
l

403

 

 

 

404 RECREATION CLUBS

PLAY MINI-GOLF

Teaches Novice e' Lowers Score of Dub Golfer

Mini-Golf and Shufl-Off is playable in the recreation hall,
gym, church, parlor or on any smooth surface. Why not
start a small class in the rudiments of golf. Inexpensive
and simple to demonstrate.

You taught tennis through my game of Ij’addle Tennis.
Now try MINI-GOLF.

Send for catalogue of Paddle Tennis, Rounders, Pad-
minton, (Chinese) Chungua Chess and Shove Ha’Penny.

BEAL'S GAMES. Inc.

277 FIFTH AVE" NEW YORK CITY MUrray Hill 4-7239 -40

For information concerning

THE SCOTTISH COUNTRY DANCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA.
write to Beal's Games. Inc.. 277 Fifth Ave" New York City

 

The Place of Handicrafts in Our Schools
(Continued from page 402)
Hughes agriculture, home economics, and indus—

trial arts, we have excellent opportunities to in-
troduce handicrafts in these fields. We also have
a program of rural craft work. These classes in—
clude training in basketry, sewing and embroidery,
crocheted and knitted goods, hooking and braid-
ing rugs, weaving, pottery, wood carving, wood-
working, and metal craft.

We, as school administrators, should do every-

    
  
  
    

As Originally
Developed by . . .

DR. FORREST C.

“PHOG” ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University or Kansas

Lawrence. Kansas

'Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of

all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating

exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG

(Manufactured Under Exclusive License Agreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
3524 DeKalb Street a a a a a a St. Louis. Mo.

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality
M

AN EDUCATIONAL EXPERIMENT

7

thing we possibly can to encourage handicrafts.
Professor Thorndike of Columbia University
states: “In general nobody under forty-live should
restrain himself from trying to learn anything
because'fof a belief or fear that he is too old to be
able to learn it.” Handicrafts offer many adults
an excellent basis for study and development, and
can be used as a starting point in education re-
gardless of the individual’s level of intelligence or
experience.

Some day American communities will come to
regard a public workshop as indispensable to their
cultural equipment as a library. Let’s encourage
it one hundred per cent!

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  

Recreation Clubs—An Educational

Experiment
(Continued from page 353)

embroiled in a heated argument over some con-
tested point in a game, or over the apparently sel-
tish behavior on the part of one child, the leader
is encouraged to study patiently the very basis of
the difficulty with the children at fault. Thus, the
real meaning of controlled conduct and behavior
is further developed.

In both the planning and conducting of the club
activities it is recognized as being educationally
progressive and desirable to coordinate units of
the regular school curriculum with the play life.
The club leaders are supplied with information
concerning the content of sections or units of
work in various fields, such as the natural and
social sciences, home economics, physical educa-
tion, arts and crafts, and music. The leaders often
gain ideas from informal conversations of the
children. Follow-up projects may be planned ac-
cordingly. In no way is the correlation of the CIUb
program and the school curriculum intended to
add to the duties of the classroom teacher or
bring the teacher in as a dictator of what should
be included in the play club program. The cor—
relation is informal' and natural.

Two positive effects have been noted thus far
in the project. The play club leaders have been -
familiar, first, with the degree to which skills are
being given on a particular grade level; and sec-
ond, with the content of some of the units of
material in certain courses in the curriculum. The
results of attempted coordination appear to be en-
riched experiences on the part of the children.
The plan is to further acquaint the leaders with
the school experiences of the children in the play

groups in such a manner that the correlation is
spontaneous and fluctuating.

l“this ain’t any time to
lpick up and git out.
tYou’re shuttin’ this
[place up just when

 

 

 

‘ maples out in front of the house will be just as red

nuthin’ I can tell about. They’ll be red and yella

ALL-YEAR-ROUND USE OF SUMMER CAMPS 405

ll-Yearp—
ound Use

pl: Summer
Camps

.   tori manner;was: m ...LOWEST cosr . ..
  vo l 1'

,wthe Original  x t 
 RubberaCovmd  5 _‘ '   M

 L - Offictol 1 Weight}; 1  

L Size, Performance”? 1 I '.

‘  . \"
- -. “r t . '-
. H -. ._ ‘
. r"
' \; . '\. ax
‘_ . \ v. > . .,,
o
4 . .,
r . c. - a.
/ x. ’ d ' H
K \ .. _
x ’ '-
".- ' \' ' t -
‘. . I ‘ .o
v 9 »' .
d ’ '
. ’ “'2 a;
‘ x " o
¢
s- . i ‘ . r
5‘
.- V x

Voit’OEtioiol sea Boll hits 9, horneixg.
rim in voice for you}; Fine!qu uot‘ity
*3; Kopok center" is oniformty “gums,
* r‘ ~ game" with: top—giddy: lotexwim‘wi
i ore§§otedicotton yarn, to which?
' “is‘volco‘rtized a tough, scuff-proofh \
white, subbercover. .This makes};
, virtuallyo One-piece unit that con—
/~ not loosen, slip or lose its shape; "

  
  
 
 
 
   
       
      
        
 
         
   
 
        
   

  

ILDERNESS camp
folks in the snow
elt which covers two-
t hirds of the United
States should seriously
onsider the adaptation
f their camps to win—
er use. ’
Let’s consider fall
amping, too —— before
sn‘ow falls and during
the fall foliage festival
season! Lafe Titus, a
Vermont odd- jobs man
(the same as his father
before him), advised a
summer resident who
was packing up to
leave for the winter
right after Labor Day,
as follows:
“Mister,” he said,

I ‘ Kr . .
EWI' ~ I '

.. w 4"»; L.
.oe‘M-a’“ :Qw ’-C;"r,"

   

  
 
 

 
 
 

VOIT Regulation
ATHLETIC BALLS

Tough Rubber Cover.
Quality Fabric Construc-
tion. Form-Bilt Center.
Ideal for Playground and

Recreation Use. Footballs.
Basketballs. Soccer and Vol-

ley Ball. Send tor catalog.

Visit Voit Exhibit at
Booth No. 3, The National
Recreation Congress

7’ Simuloted stitches will. not ripi ox" _
weorpm‘. Wedtheriandrwoterf. _- '

i  proof, perfect for dog, or night

‘ploy on allisturfoces in all weather
conditions.‘5izes from 9” to. 16”.
See your“ Spotting Goods Dealer.

' Write for nechot‘olog.

 

‘ t

i !

you ought to be open—
in’ it. You’ve been
here all summer hav-
in’ a good time, pokin’
round the place and
settin’ in the shade.
It’s been quiet and
cool and nice here with
all the green hills
around, but you ain’t
seen it when it’s really
right.

“In a coupla weeks these hills will look like

. Volt RubbenCovereclf 1
Sports Equipaient also in»
cludes Enduro, Regulation \ ;
[tend Alt Rubber Athletic‘ 
Balls, Inflated Playground "
Bolisft'ennis Balls and other f
items. ' p

r ‘ GU gnussm-covmo
. 5 FOR TS

EQUIPMENT

MFD. BY W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.‘
1600 East 25th Street, Los Angeles, Calif.

Branch: 180 N. Wocker Drive, Chicago, Ill.

you up. Make you feel like a young fella. The
leaves will fall off the trees all sorta crackly and
you’ll want to walk" down through the woods scuf—
iin’ your feet in ’em. Deer and partridges will be
all around the place. Vermont’s all right in the
summer, but, well, it just ain’t ripe yet.”

and brown, and kinda coppery like, and all kinds
of colors that I don’t know names for. And around
there’ll be blue spruces and green pines. Them big

as fire. The air will be different, too. Sorta brace ( C ontinued on following page)

406

Three Books of
. Immediate Interest.

By Porter Sargent

N

GETTING U S INTO WAR
640 pages, black vellum cloth, $4.00

A Contemporary Record of changes of the past
three years in Public Opinionw—An attempt to throw
light on the way International Affairs are presented,
and on the little known forces’ and influences that use
events to alter our views. Introductory Chapters il-
luminate historical and political backgrounds. The
Encyclopedic Index is of special reference value on
current personalities and affairs.

“An extremely valuable record,” Edward S. Corwin.
“The best reference book on the inside history of our
foreign affairs during the last three years,” Albert
Jay Nook. “The first twenty minutes of reading
proved fully worth the $4 the volume costs, so that
the hours of reading ahead are clear profit,” Senator
John Danaher. “Any serious study in the future will
constantly fall back on this documentary collection of
source material,” I. Duane Squires.

WHAT MAKES LIVES
224 pages, red silk cloth, $1.50

Endeavors to answer “What Makes You Think So”
—Challenges “How Do You Know You Are Right”—
Attempts to eXplain how we are shaped or misshaped
by our changing environments,——powerful personali-
ties, propaganda and teaching—Interprets events in
terms of human motives of the chief actors, perhaps
violating some proprieties and tabus.

THE HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS
25th edition, 1136 pp, red silk cloth, $6.00

“There is so much that is pertinent to the problem
of education that the book should be in the hands of
every educator,” Dr. Douglas A. Thom, Boston Psy-
chiatrist. “An interesting commentary on modern
trends in education,” Mildred McA fee, President,
Wellesley College.

Circulars, Table of Contents of above on request

PORTER SARGENT, 11 BEACON ST., BOSTON

ALL-YEAR-ROUND USE OF SUMMER CAMPS

   
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
        
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
    
  
    
  
 
    

_ (Continued from preceding page)

.And we agree with Late; Vermont “ain’t ri
until fall and it doesn’t really come into its u
until its rolling hills and pastures are covered \
snow. Our summer camp program has been at
ing the wilderness summers, but the time has c
when we ought to use our equipment “when
season is ripe!”

Have the camp reunion right back at cal
Spend Thanksgiving where Thanksgiving was
vented! Start short-term winter camps and we I
end camps in the snow belt. Open the camps
cilities for ski schools, ski camps, and as sn
train headquarters!

Skiing has captured the interest of the en
country, and its rapid but healthy developni
offers another outdoor opportunity to offset
increased tendency to live inside. The suml
camp movement has been dedicated for fifty y
to the developing of outdoor living and the enj
ment of wilderness camping. And now comes \
ter camping, opening new avenues of inte
through the new use of our camping environm
Extracts from article by Harold M. Gore in .
C amp Director’s H andbook—1940 Season.

It's Being Done in Nature Recreat'
(Continued from page 396)

Rocky Mountain National Park by NBC on ‘
urday noons. Park Naturalist Raymond Greg
a genius at getting spontaneous conversation fr
boys and girls as they hike over park trails.

Soil Conservation Program for 4-H Cl
“Farm Mapping Project,” James A. Porter. t
tension Division, Michigan State College,
Lansing, 1939. 32 pp. An excellent spring p *
ect. Also “Projects in Forestry, Soil and Ph -
ant Raising,” Club Bulletin 29. Michigan S
College, East Lansing. 26 pp.

State Parks. Oklahoma State Parks Board 5
issued a folder describing the natural features f

its eight state parks.

”

Superstitions. “You and Your Superstitim .
Lucas Bros., Columbia, Missouri. 249 pp. $2- 3-
Comprehensive and entertaining. '

Tour. An annual spring nature tour is held in
the Starved Rock State Park Area, Illinois, C-
cording to Dr. Donald T. Ries, Park Natural st.
An array of authorities serve as guides for +18
2,000 persons attending.

  
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
    
 
    
   
  
    
 
  
  

Trail Building. A Canadian bucksaw, sold by
( ping SUpply houses, can be easily carried in a
lck. It handles an eight to ten inch tree.

Trees on Main Street. Edward A. Connell,
wn Tree Warden, Stamford, Connecticut, tries
V let the taxpayers know the cash value of road-
3 e shade trees. On West Hill Road, for exam-
, there are thirty-one different species worth
proximately $12,500. He also considers it im-
rtant to have neat, capable, and intelligent work-
’11. Public psychology applies here as elsewhere.

The "Three-M’s"
(Continued from page 354) '

eir communities; they know more about the
g ople who live in them, and this will lead them
the future, I hope, to be better citizens and to
rk to improve the quality of citizenship for the
mmunities in which they live. It will help them
0 to make up their minds on topics of state and
tional interest, and therefore to be more valu-
le as individuals and as members of any or-
nization which they may join.”

Folktime in Richmond, Virginia
(Continued from page 376)

I lub, accompanied by the WPA Orchestra, sang
llads as they were pantomimed on the grassy
age. The legends of the folk games, dances and
llads were given by a narrator, a member of the

l cal Theater Guild.

I Beginning with the old folk tune, “Cripple
' reek,” the orchestra opened the festival which
cluded the familiar games, “Oats-Peas-Beans,”
o In and Out the \Nindows,” “Three Dukes
’Ridin’,” “Old Roger Is Dead,” and “Lazy
.” The songs selected were the “The Frog
ent A’Courtin’,” “Old Gray Goose,” “Billy
rimes,” “The VVagnor’s Lad” (Old Smokey),
I nd “Paper of Pins.”

Familar dances were: “Turn the Glasses Over,”
Old Dan Tucker,” “Bow, Bow, 0 Belinda,”
Jump Jim Crow,” “The Jolly Miller,” “Pop
. oes the Weasel,” and “Captain Jinks.”

The three ballads were: “King john and the
bbott,” “Bonny Barbara Allen,” and “Raggle
aggle Gypsies,” selected from the American

ethology of Old l/Vorld Ballads set to music and

rchestrated by one of Richmond’s young com-
osers.

l—n

m

[-1
‘<

FOLKTIME IN RICHMOND, VIRGINIA ' 407

 

 ;; if?"   Spar:
. " f?“ 5r?    j
am  s  E29 U I P M E: N r

 Game!~

RAWLINGS MANUFACTURING COMPANY

SAINT LOUIS o

MISSOURI

 

No Virginia Folk Festival could be considered
complete without the tantalizing scrape of the
fiddle and the loud call of “Balance all.” Mothers
and fathers whose children had played, danced
and sung in the early evening chose their partners
and danced “Two Hands Across,” “Bird in the
Cage,” and “Virginia Reel.” ‘

The purpose of the Community Recreation As-
sociation in producing the folk festival and its
value to the participants and their friends can be
no better expressed than in the words of the fol-
lowing editorial, which appeared to the Riclmzond
Times-Dispatch after the event:

7‘

Folktime in the Park

There is so much that is artificial and unrealistic
in the lives of children today, that the Virginia Folk
Arts Festival held at Monroe Park on Friday night,
seemed to us to be an event fraught with considerable
significance. It is seldom nowadays that one sees
children laughing and enjoying themselves with such
spontaneous delight as did those who participated in
the festival. If one happened to go to the park long
before the set program was to begin, simply in order
to see whether the folk idea had caught the fancy of
the children, there was a pleasant surprise. Some of
the girls and boys were there hours before the per—

408

Join the
“INNER CIRCLE

OF HAPPY
TEACHERS

who make their work
EASIER and more
RESULTFUL THROUGH
the USE of

Junior Arts and Activities

There are 915,000 grade teachers in the United States.
Within this great group is an inner circle of conscien-
tious, serious-minded teachers who make their work
more enjoyable and more effective for their pupils by
utilizing the wealth of valuable project material, units,
and ideas that come to them each month in JUNIOR
ARTS AND ACTIVITIES—the fastest growing elementary
teacher’s magazine in America today!

. . in fact, THIS is the ONLY teacher’s magazine that
contains such a storehouse of practical, usable material
and information presented in a way that captures the
interest of every pupil.

NEW FEATURES, in addition to the departments
already established (music, safety, classroom methods,
correlations of art and crafts with the other subjects
in the curriculum, articles on art instruction, and
units‘) will be added in September. Among these will
be creative writing in the elementary grades, new
methods for integrated programs for school work,

plays, programs, travels. etc.—all designed for ONE
purpose—~40 HELP YOU.

Every issue contains material for the primary, inter-
mediate, and upper grades covering regular and
special subjects.

SUBSCRIBE NOW! 0 PAY LATER!

Join the Inner Circle of teachers who subscribe for
JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES. Don’t miss a single issue

-—-10 BIG ISSUES ONLY $2.00. No need to send

 

money now. If, for any reason, you are not entirely.

satisfied after you receive your first copy (the big
September issue) you may cancel your subseription
within 10 days.

MAIL COUPON TODAY

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES R—9—41
740 Rush Street. Chicago. Illinois

Please enter my subscription for JUNIOR ARTS AND
ACTIVITIES for

[I I year at $2.00 I] 2 years at $3.00 (a saving of $I.00)

If I am not satisfied I may cancel my subscription within
10 days after receipt of the September issue. Otherwise
I shall remit on or before October 6.

Name ........................................................................................ ..

Address .................................................................................... ..
City ................................................ .. State ............................ ..

 

FOR THEIR OFF-DUTY HOURS

formance began, doing a little practicing. How woul
our teachers like to see more of this eagerness i
their pupils?

Many of the boys and girls who danced to fol
music in the park, derived their enjoyment part]
from the novelty of the experience. The planners o
the program knew that they were simply touchin
the springs of a cultural heritage that dates back fa
into the history of England, to the days before th
dour Puritans began to repress the spirits of the
people.

When children are playing folk games and dancing
to folk music in the park they are in vital touch with
the realities of art and life. They are not having
tinseled dramas served up to them in a fantastic set-
ting, as so often happens in modern life, and they are
not being served intellectual pabulum. They are, for
a change, learning to appreciate life, while at play.
We hope the idea of the folk festival—this old Engr

lish carnival idea—will spread to all the parks of
the state.

For Their OFF-Duty Hours

(Continued from page 391)

West Allis Provides for

Service Men

   
  
    
    
  
    
 
  
    
 

its program to help meet the needs of service men
consulted with the Board of Education, the Cit
Council, the Veteran organizations. the Draf
Board, and the newspapers. When a check—up p:
surveys made by the army and navy on rejections
for health reasons disclosed a large percentage 01
the men in poor physical condition, the Depart
ment invited all registered draftees to take part it
conditioning classes held on the playgrounds fro
7:30 to 9:30 several evenings a week under th
leadership of qualified physical instructors license
by the state to teach. These classes have also bee
established for the Home Guard units, and in ad
dition all of the men in the community have be
invited to take part in similar classes. The onl,
requirement is that they must register and have '
physical examination before taking part in th1
program. Classes are also being arranged f0
playground children of various age groups.

West Allis is the center of much industri
defense activity. In addition to three large com
panies, among them Allis-Chalmers, there ar
twenty smaller factories doing defense wor
Many recreation activities are being conducted f0

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 409

the workers and their families. For the women
classes conducted by city nurses have been or-
ganized on the playgrounds in emergency nursing,
first aid, and Red Cross work. These women are
i being given practical instruction that can be ap-
plied in their own homes as well as in emergency

situations.

Recreation Camps for Men

on Leave

CATTERED over the United States where troops

S are being trained for defense, the army is

providing camps which are “about as unmilitary

as they can be,” according to the article by Charles

I Hurd in The N ew York Times. No bugle blows

reveille and breakfast is served as late as nine
o’clock in the morning!

The idea was conceived by General' George C.
Marshall, Chief of Staff, who a few months ago
initiated the camps as an experiment. Today they
are an established part of the routine of the army
program, and by fall camps capable of accommo—
dating 20,000 soldiers will be in operation.

The recreation camp is designed as a place to
which soldiers may go on week ends when they
have leave from Friday night until Monday morn—
ing. Frequently they go in batches of a hundred
with a commissioned officer and a sergeant as
escort on the trip. They may go in trucks or the
railroads carry them at a special rate of a cent and
a quarter a mile, which they pay themselves. Once
at camp, the soldiers sleep in tents with wooden or
cement floors. There is no charge for this. Each
camp has a large tent which serves as a lounge
and at which is a concession serving meals at cost
at prices ranging from fifteen to thirty cents.

The army is enlisting civilian aid in its camp
project, and in each city near which a camp has
been put in operation a committee has been or-
ganized to provide entertainment. The soldier on
arrival at camp receives a mimeographed booklet
outlining events for the week end. There are
always dances and frequently free shows. The
practice is growing of permitting men in training
to use local recreation facilities without cost.

No soldier has to go to a recreation camp, for
his leave is his own time. The camps are located
only as a convenience if he wishes to use them,
but now the enlisted man is making them a major
 factor in the military program.

     

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of a

Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

    

MAGAZINES

Beach and Pool, June 1941

“A Kansas City Builds a New Pool"
“How Municipalities Can Appeal Properly for a

Swim Pool”
“Modern Replacement of a Fill-and—Draw Poo ” by

Gilbert E. Hotchkiss
“Swimming—Recreation and Health” by George W.

Cox

Beach and Pool, July 1941
“The Story of Centennial Park Beach” by James L.
Nichols _
“Water Conditioning a Prime Requirement” by R.
N. Perkins. The treatment of pool water
The Child, June 1941
“Camping with Crippled Children at GreentOp” by
Mary E. Church
Hygeia, August 1941

“Recreational Therapy” by John Eisele Davis. Help
for the mentally ill

Junior Arts and Activities, June 1941
“Finger Painting—Everybody’s Art”

Louisiana Schools, June 1941
“The Schools and Recreation” by "G. M. Gloss

The Nation’s Schools, July 1941

“The Camp as a School” by Vinson Strohman
“Principals Tackle Football” by Donald J. Bell.
Survey of high school football in California

The Nation’s Schools, August 1941 ,
“Bicycling Made Safe” by A. J. Moog

Parents’ Magazine, August 1941

“Children Can Play with Animals at the Children’s
Zoo” by Lucile D. Kirk

Parks and Recreation, July 1941

“Operation and Maintenance of Pools and Bath-
houses” by O. L. Peterman

Public Management, July 1941
“It Pays to Play.” Editorial comment

PAMPHLETS

Democracy in the Summer Camp. Education and Na-
tional Defense Series, U. S. Office of Education.
Pamphlet N0. 23

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,
price $.15 s

An Invitation to New Play Areas
National Park Service, Department of the Interior,
Washington, D. C.

Manuals of Instruction and Information. Summer Play-
grounds, 1941

Compton City School District and Union Secondary
District, Compton, California
Outdoor Programs, National Capital Parks. 1941
National Park Service, Department of the Interior,
Washington, D. C.

Plays and Pageants. 1940-41. Classification and descrip-
tion of plays and pageants

The Womans Press, 600 Lexington Avenue, New
York

410 PLAYS IN THE VERNACULAR!

Costumes

Recreation Training School, WPA, 107 Washington
St., New York

Field Trips for Amateur Naturalists. Spring 1941
Newark Museum Nature Club, Washington Park

West, Newark, N. J.

Instructions in ,Methods of Seat Weaving by H. H.

Perkins
The H. H. Perkins Co., 256 Shelton Ave., New

Haven, Conn.

Nature’s-Program by Gaylord Johnson
Nelson Doubleday, Inc., 111 Eighth Ave., New York

Outdoor Living by E. Laurence Palmer. Cornell Rural

School Leafiet, March 1941
New York State College of Agriculture, Cornell
University, Ithaca, N. Y.

The Precious Fifty Hymns
Hgme Institute, 109 W. 19th St., New York, price
.15

Seal-o-San Basketball Coaches Digest. Second edition,

1941
The Huntington Laboratories, Inc., Huntington, Ind.,
price $.25

A Study of Parks, Parkways and Recreation Areas

Washington State Planning Council, Olympia, Wash.
Condensed from the original mimeographed pub-
lication dated July 21, 1939

Summary, Analysis and Recommendations of the Recrea-
tion Survey

Butler County Committee of the Pennsylvania

Economy League, Community Building, Butler, Pa.

Report of the Chief of the Forest Service 1940
. Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,
price $.10

Tournaments
Recreation Training School, WPA, 107 Washington
St., New York

The Summer Camp
Camp Fire Girls, Inc., New York City

The Summer Way for M. I. A.—Recreation, Education,
Religion in the Out-of-Doors

General Board of M.I.A., Salt Lake City, Utah, 1940,

price $.25. Manual for recreation leaders in the

Mutual Improvement Associations of the Mormon
Church

Survey on the Utilization of Visual Aids
VlCtOI‘ Animatograph COrp., Davenport, Iowa, 1940

Woodland Trail Walks with the HTB. No. 9, April-
November 1940
Hiking Trips Bureau, H-o-ho-kus, N. 1., 1940,
price $.10

A Year’s Good Parties by Beth E. Cummings
Farm Journal and Farmer’s Wife, Washington
Square, Philadelphia, Pa., price 15 cents

Plays in the Vernacular!
(Continued from page 360)

to the “Dance of the Bottle” which was not as good
as the first one. A Mexican storekeeper had the
“Dance of the Bottle” record, but he would not
lend it to us, so we had to rent it for thirty cents.

The morning of the dress rehearsal was a wild
time. W e kept the road hot between the school-
house and the other side of town getting the
record, etc. The leading lady forgot to bring her

    
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
  

special shoes, had to go home after them, lost on
en route, had to go back again to find it. The lead
ing man forgot his sombrero and had to go after it

At long last, sombrero, record, shoes, serape
pinata, drawnwork, pottery, tortillas were all as
sembled and we were ready to draw the curtain
to entertain the other division of the Fifth Grad
and the entire Sixth Grade, when we discovere
that Lupe, one of the chief actors, was missing
We hunted everywhere for him but could not fin
him. Finally, someone went upstairs to our mo
and there sat Lupe! He had decided “not to b
in it.” I had to send three different delegation
after him before he consented to be dragged be
fore the footlights. It was a case of stage frigh

The noon bell rang before we had finished the
play, so Gilbert, the stage manager, had to an
nounce that we would finish it some other tim
The auditorium was in use all the time afterward
so we never did finish it, much to the dissatisfac
tion of our audience.

We did, however, finish the regular perform! .
ance when the mothers were there. I was doubt
ful that day at noon whether there would be
play, as the leading man announced that he woul I
not be there in the afternoon; the leading lady
said she was sick; and one of the actors was madl
because someone had teased him, and said
would not be there. I asked another teacher wh
I should do if they did not come and she sai ,
“Don’t worry, you - couldn’t keep them away”!
Sure enough, they were all on hand and ready to
begin at the appointed time—even Lupe!

People seemed to enjoy the program; it w
different from any we had had before. The chi -
dren sang several songs in Spanish, which please
the audience. In the end, they all did well, an
looked fine in their sombreros and scrapes.

Mothers' Clubs Bridge the Seasons.

(Continued from page 381) a
people of Austin. The year will be almost comf'
pleted in August when election of officers will be
held and the awards presented at the second an-
nual camp fire.

This diversified program has been planned, with
the assistance of the recreation leader, by a group
of women who are sincerely interested in the
growth of playgrounds. These women, “the peo-
ple,” are remembering their promise that they
gave at the camp fire last summer that they would
help to the best of their ability to make a better
playground system. And they are doing it!

New Publications in the. Leisure Time Field

 

The Playleaders' Manual

By Margaret E. Mulac. Harper and Brothers, New
York. $2.75.

” IF A LEADER acquaints the child on the playground with
some new opportunity for jOyous living that will re—
main as a source of pleasure and satisfaction for years to

‘ come, that leader has performed an invaluable service to

the child and to the community in which he lives,” says
Miss Mulac in her introduction to this practical guide.
And it is to help the play leader in introducing the child
to these new opportunities that Miss Mulac has dedicated
her book. It has not been possible, as she herself points
out, to deal in great detail with all the subjects discussed,
but in her presentation of the many types of activities

, possible of development from games to nature study, from

handcraft to dramatics, Miss Mulac has performed a real
service. Not only the leader on the playground but
teachers, camp counselors, and club leaders 'will find this
manual exceedingly helpful.

Games We Like Best— Kit 52

Edited by Lynn and Katherine Rohrbough. Cooperative
Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

QUIET GAMES, children’s games, active games, social-
isers, and games of skill are described in this issue
of the Recreation Kit. The collection includes ten tra—
ditional games from Tennessee.

Reading for Enjoyment

By Donald MacCampbell.
lishers, New York. $2.50.

HERE Is A BOOK which extends to the reader an invita-

tion to new adventures in reading. In its pages
Mr. MacCampbell tells how through careful selection,
systematized reading habits, correct use of library facili-
ties and other methods, every minute of reading time
can be filled with enjoyment. The book is a guide to
good books and to wise reading.

Harper and Brothers Pub-

Design and Figure Carving

B)! E. J. Tangerman. Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill
Book Company, Inc., New York. $4.00.

HUNDREDS OF DESIGN and figure elements for whittlers

and wood carvers are illustrated and detailed in this
volume with its more than 1,300 individual sketches and
photographs. The text progresses from the simplest
design units executed with a single tool to exceedingly
elaborate subjects requiring a variety of tools. Materials
discussed include wood, soap, ivory, celluloid, and

plastics. ‘ f ‘l s" 

Creative Rhythms

By Rhoda Reynolds Sutton. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $1.60.

SINCE THE MAIN objective in rhythms for elementary

school children is dance, which is creative, teachers
and recreation leaders are faced with two problems: How
can activities be provided which will have meaning for
each individual child, and how can the teaching “be done
so that suggestions for new rhythmic activities will come
from the children themselves? This book, by showing
how seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, and twelve year olds
have reacted to a dance program based on their own
experiences, helps answer these questions.

Booklist Books l940

American Library Association, Chicago. $.40.
THE 1940 Booklist Books selected 'by the vote of about
lifty librarians and a few specialists has been com-
piled by the Staff Book Reviewing Committee of the
Queens Borough Public Library, New York City. All
titles listed were published in 1940, and the selection of the
books was determined by their usefulness to the average
small or medium sized public library. The books are
classified under a number of headings such as Fine Arts
and Amusements, Travel, Fiction, Social Sciences, and
Technical and Business Books.

Playing Fair

A Book of Tolerance Plays. By Fanny Venable Cannon.
E. P. Dutton and Company, Inc., New York. $1.00.

OLERANCE as the emotional and intellectual basis for

the political doctrine of democracy furnishes the
central theme for each of the four dramas included in
this volume, which are designed to instill an appreciation
of our common cultural heritage wrought by the hands
and intellects of people of many nations and groups,
unified by a common ideal. Each play deals with ques-
tions which might arise in high schools where students
are drawn from diverse social and economic backgrounds.

Table Decorations and Party Plans

By Alfreda Lee. Bridgman Publishers, Inc., Pelham,
New York. $1.50.

A VERY PRACTICAL aid for the harassed hostess is this

attractive book with its many illustrations and its
simple and understandable text. There are suggestions
for invitations, inexpensive centerpieces with matching
favors, place cards, original games with artistically appro-
priate decorations, as well as novel and delectable menus.

411

412 NEW PUBLICATIONS-IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Festivals In San Francisco.

Prepared by the Northern California Writers’
Project., WPA. James Ladd Delkin, Stanford Uni-

versity.

This volume, one of the American Guide Series, con-
tains a description of celebrations by months which are
as large a part of San Francisco’s living as if they had
been observed ever since the first settlers built the pre-
sidio and mission here in the year of the Declaration of
Independence. It has not been possible in this book to
describe all of the festivals brought by the pioneers. For
those selected, however, the historical, religious, or
legendary background has been given whenever possible.
Colored illustrations add to the attractiveness of the book.

Youth-Serving Organizations.

By M. M. Chambers. American Council on Educa-
tion, Washington, D. C. $2.50.

Every recreation agency and others concerned with
problems of youth will want to have access to this com-
prehensive reference 'work prepared by Mr. Chambers
for the American Youth Commission. A revised and
enlarged edition of a publication first issued in 1937, it
contains a descriptive inventory of 320 national non-gov-
ernmental agencies serving youth. For each organization
the data are presented under the following heads: member-
ship, purpose, aetivities, publications, staff, and finances.
The lbook also contains statistical tables, organization
charts, and a bibliography.

In addition to the directory of agencies the book con-
tains a “summary preview” of organizations in the field
of youth service. Of special interest is the discussion of
the role of these associations and of their relations one
with another and with the schools. The form of presenta-
tion and the carefully prepared index facilitate the use
of the book which is designed to supply basic informa-
tion bearing on such questions as: (1) What are the
general purposes and activities of the national youth-
serving organizations which have local branches in my
community? (2) Are there any national groups not
represented in my locality whose aims and policies indi-

cate that a local branch would be an asset to the youth
of this community?

Creative Dramatics in the Jewish Center.

By Zachary Serwer. Jewish Welfare Board. 220
Fifth Avenue, New York. $.50.

Here is an interesting handbook designed to serve as a
guide to club leaders in Jewish community centers who
wish to make dramatics provide a means for creative
expression, serve as a method of instruction in other
activities, and focus the attention of club members on
culture and problems of the Jewish faith. A variety Of
prOJects are suggested—lecture demonstration tableau

and games, a series of sketches, the play, the pageant, or
the living newspaper.

The Record Book.

By David Hall. Smith and Durrell, Inc., 420 Madi-
son Avenue, New York. $3.50.

A remarkable 750-page book of invaluable help to any-
one wishing to commence or to add to a library of music
for the phonograph. It has many hints as to needs,
methods and the pleasures of record collecting, and an
enormous fund of information about recordings them-
selves. This information includes not only a complete
listing of the recordings but also a frank, informal and
impartial criticism of each one. This is especially valuable
where two or more recordings of the same music are
available. Moreover, the commentaries on the music
itself, on the composers and on the general development
of music in each period are very enlightening. Every
lover or would-be lover of music on records should have
this book. The enthusiasms and protections it conveys

will surely lead him farther and farther on the road 0
growing enjoyment.

Home Course in Cartooning.

By George Carlson. Home Institute, Inc., 109 We
19th Street, New York City. $.15.

In the days of long ago kings and rulers had jeste
to furnish amusement. Today the cartoon artist is jest
to millions who are reached through the magic 0
printer’s ink. This booklet will show you how to crea
the cartoon figures which are used so effectively i
promoting ideas of various kinds.

Character Education in a Democracy‘.

By S. R. Slavson. Association Press, New Yor
$2.50.

The author, in this plan for integrative ed’ucatio
probes into the meaning of character in terms of pe
sonality structure, family, school and club relations, t
job, and total culture. He points out the need f
changing emphases in a changing society in the educ
tional field and in leisure-time education as well. Fro
his broad experience he illustrates the developing of i
dividuality and the methods of training and redirecti
character in the setting of present-day conditions and f
an ever evolving democratic plan of life.

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President I

JOHN G. \VINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary to the Boa
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIREC-TORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. I.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE I-I. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOIIN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, MaSS.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIREN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, \Vashington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, \Vashington, D. C.

 

