"I Go to the Playground Just to Have Fun"

GREAT NATURAL RESOURCE is the capacity of men and women to be happy,
to find life good.

It does not take much to» help people to be happy.
It does not take much to make people thoroughly unhappy.

One sourpuss rightly placed can pollute the atmosphere for quite a long
distance.

The difference between happiness and unhappiness for the group is very
slight, a touch-and-go pr0position—a very slight leadership can make all the
difference.

Of course, happiness is a by-product—not something to be sought after for
its own sake.

However, being unhappy just crosses so many hours, so many days off as
zero, as time that does not count.

You travel farther, you travel higher and deeper and you make an altogether
better picture when you are happy.

Happiness does not depend on owning much. Owning much is sometimes,
after a certain point, just so much more to carry.

Happiness is an inner attitude.

The playground and recreation center is a good place for developing the habit
of happiness, the inner attitude of happiness.

Happiness does not mean Pollyanna stuff; it does not mean closing one’s eyes
or going through life blindfolded so as not to see evil or what needs to be changed.

Happiness does not mean laughing all the time or being silly. People who
laugh constantly may be very unhappy.

Happiness does involve an inner peace, an inner power, a willingness to enjoy -
little things, to smile kindly at oneself and one’s own peculiar ways, to smile
kindly at what is going on about one. It does involve being a good companion to
oneself and to others.

A great contribution of the playground is to help children early to learn to
do what they want to do happily with others.

A great contribution of the recreation center to people throughout life is
to give people an opportunity to adjust happily to each other in sharing music,
drama, sport, beauty, and all else worth sharing.

W GWW

DECEMBER, l94l Hem PfeiE'er Library
MaoMumz-ay College '
JaCksonV'"l‘-‘ n, 117 1110:...- " 533

 

 

 

December

xv-- ~ I run-g...

 

 

A scene from "Unfo These Is Given.” which was
preseni’ed a’r Chris’rmas Ias’r year by ’rhe Commu-
ni’ry Children's Thea’rer. Palo Al’ro. California

334

 

Christmas in Sweden

"It’s the day before the
day before the dunking day"

  
      
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
  

NORTHERN CHRISTMAS lasts a long time—a
whole month, in fact—and there is- joyous
excitement and a feeling of great mystery as
e holidays approach and preparations take place.
' n December 22nd we hear everywhere, on the
ightest provocation, the traditional and frolic—
me tune, “It’s the day before the day before the
Inking day.” Dunking has something special to
o with Christmas which I will tell you about later.
ne might think, then, that Christmas begins on
ecember 22nd, but it doesn’t, for the Christmas
ason begins'on December 13th, which is the day
St. Lucia. An ancient legend about St. Lucia
. scribes her as a medieval saint who devoted a
reat part of her time to carrying food and drink
u the hungry people in her neighborhood.

By the time the “Lucia Day” arrives, people,
cording to ancient custom, have finished their
reshing and most of the large jobs of the year in
der that they may be ready to participate in the
ay preparations for the holidays. The night of

A

‘ e darkest day of the year with spirits of _dark-
ss hovering about, and for that reason people
1 hted a great many lights on that night. It is
ting, therefore, that Christmas should be ushered

i by a vision in white bearing lighted candles.
his vision in white is a daughter of the house

# 0 comes to us representing the Spirit of St. Lucia.
e comes to our bedroom door in the dark morn-

ihg, usually between five and six o’clock. Dressed

i white, and with her blond hair falling over her

5 oulders, she brings with her a festive atmos—
phere and the first Christmas lights, for on her
head is a whortleberry wreath in which there is a
l circle of seven lighted candles.
She carries a tray on which there

l are cakes and cookies, some-
times made in amusing shapes,
such as cats with appealing raisin
eyes. These cookies are called
“lussikatter,” meaning Lucia
cats. From the shining copper

 

ecember I 3th in olden times was supposed to be _

Miss Lindberg. who spent the first
fifteen years of her life in Sweden.
mentions some of the traditions as-
sociated with St. Lucia. In. the
article which followsI Jonathan
Sax tells us in more detail about
this legendary figure of antiquity.

 

coffee pot comes a delicious aroma to cheer us and
give us a foretaste of the joyous days that will
follow. In honor and memory of the beloved saint
this girl is called “Lucia” throughout the day,
instead of by her own name.

Christmas Preparations

The days between December I 3th and Christ--
mas Eve go by swiftly, for there is much to be
done. Christmas gifts, which are often fashioned
by hand, must receive finishing touches. In typi-
cal fashion the house must be cleaned again from
attic to cellar. Copper, brass, and silver must _
shine; the shelves of the linen closet must be
stacked with snow-white linen, and sausage mak-
ing becomes an important activity. Some sausages
are made of pork, some of liver, and some of
barley. One hardly knows which of these is the
most delicious. The culinary element ranks high
in the celebration of Christmas. Hams must be
cured in accordance with customs of days long
since passed. I—Ieadcheese and many other deli-
cacies are prepared. Then follows the bread mak—
ing which continues anywhere from three to five or
more days, depending upon the size of the family.
These days are filled with a mixture of happy
anticipation and delightful fra-
grance of spices. Cakes and
cookies and bread are made in
great quantities, for they must
last throughout the Christmas
season. There are gingerbread
cookies made in the shape of
goats to remind us of the sacred

535

536 CHRISTMAS IN SWEDEN

ever trees are cut. The tree, so somber looking i
its untrimmed state, presently becomes gay an
alive with glittering tinsels, tiny Swedish flags
and, for courtesy and in memory of members 0
the family who are living in other lands, foreignI
flags are interspersed among the Swedish. On the
branches are candies wrapped in colorful tassle
paper and decorated with bright pictures. Ther
are little marzipan hams and pigs and red applie
and white candles made of pure wax. The tre
stands there in all its glory giving out a deliciou
fragrance of fir and apples.

goats of Thor, and also in the shape of quaint
little folks. These cookies are not shaped with
molds but cut with a knife after the dough has
been rolled into a thin sheet. '

I vividly recall how my father, who is artisti-
cally inclined, had to come to the rescue and shape
the goats, and to us children it seemed that no
other goats had more beautiful antlers! It was
indeed a rare occasion for us to watch him as
he deftly cut the dough and fashioned these beau-
tiful cookie animals. The raisin eyes gave them
a wise look. Butter and sugar cookies are made

in molds representng the
stars and the moon and
many other symbols. All of
our favorite breads appear
at Christmas time. There is
the wort bread, a malt—fla—
vored wheat bread, molasses
bread, and saffron colored
breads flavored with spices.
In some parts of the coun-
try, a Christmas loaf in the
form of a boar’s head is
baked and gaily decorated.
According to medieval cus—
tom, this loaf stands on the
table throughout the holi-
days as a prayer that next
year’s harvest may be
plentiful.

There is a pungent odor
of fir and balsam, for tiny
twigs are scattered outside the
front door and on the walks
leading to the house, and fir
trees are tied in place at the door
posts and at the garden gate.
The birds always have a special
feast at Christmas time. For
them a pole is raised in the yard on which a sheaf
of wheat is securely fastened. The sheaf repre-
sents the last one to be harvested and in every
yard there is such a sheaf of wheat. These decora-
tive arrangements are survivals of ancient times.

Now December 22nd has arrived and we hear
the youngsters and older folks, too, singing hap-
pily, “It’s the day before the day before the dunk-
ing day.”

The Christmas tree has been brought from the
forest by the children and grown-ups and has been
placed in the living room. In the Scandinavian
countries great care is taken to plant seeds wher-

 

A cus’rom prevalen’r in Sweden and
fhe o’rher coun’rries of fhe Nor’rh-
land is +he feeding of birds. Each
family places a sheaf of grain on a

pole or near ’rhe gable of +l1e- barn
for +l1e birds' Chris’rmas dinner.

The Christmas Eve Dinne

Christmas Eve, for whic
everyone has been living i
thrilling anticipation eve
since the day of St. Luci
has arrived. I want to te
you about the tradition
Christmas Eve dinner, th
first course of which i
always eaten in the kitchen.
This custom is observed llll
pretentious as well as hum-
ble homes. Kitchens in Swe—
den are usually large rooms
and at Christmas time they
are gaily decorated. On the
walls are colored paper
friezes depicting holiday
scenes and rows of brightly
polished copper utensils. We

find a festive atmosphere in the

kitchen. It is a truly fascinating

place which in no way suggests

dull tasks such as dishwashing.

On the stove we find a gleaming 1
copper pot in which sausages.
and fresh ham are boiling. Every- 
one joins in the old custom of dipping a slice of

wort bread in the rich steaming broth. This is the

“dunking” mentioned earlier. When the bread is

fully saturated it is withdrawn, and behold, we

have a delectable morsel which someone has called

“the cocktail of the gods.” This bread is eaten for

good luck before the feast begins.

After the dipping of the bread comes the smor—
gasbord. Smorgasbord is Swedish for hors
d’oeuvres. There are more than one dozen differ—
ent kinds of delicacies to be sampled. The rein-
deer meat, goat cheese, jellied eel, and the cheese

(Continued on page 578)

 

Lucia Dagen

the winter and Christmas

season. It performs the
same function in northern Min-
- nesota where, under the St.
- Louis County rural schools, an
: extensive winter festivities pro—
. gram has been developed.

I The festival, full of rich folk
 culture, has been adopted as
the first frolic of importance in
the regular winter program
, sponsored by the Greater Rural
Q St. Louis County Winter Frolic Association. It is
the companion piece to the famous Laskiainen
celebration of Finnish origin which the northern
Minnesotans observe on Shrove Tuesday. Lucia
Dagen comes traditionally on December 13th.

I N SWEDEN, Lucia Day opens

The origin of the festival in St. Louis County can
be traced back to the clipping of a rotogravure
picture showing the “Lussibrud” (Lucia bride)
who won the popularity contest in Stockholm a
number of years ago. This gave the County
Schools’ Leisure Education Department an idea
out of which came an extremely interesting and
colorful festival with its winter activities and fa-
cilities, customs, traditions, and foods. Some fas-
cinating research resulted in the issuing of a Lucia
Dagen bulletin containing the history of the event,
its traditions, songs, and some of the recipes of
foods peculiar to the day.

In our search we talked with people who re-
member celebrating the day in Sweden as young
people; we corresponded with the Universities of
Upsala and Stockholm; we consulted the N ordisk
Familjebok, an encyclopedia, the Encyclopedia
Britannica, and The Book of Festivals by Dorothy
Gladys Spicer. Our most pleasant sources were of
course the people themselves. Our inquiries and
talks with them brought back many delightful
memories for them, and the celebrations themselves
were an even greater source of enjoyment to these
people. At one of the festivals in Bear River (a
F small farming community in the county) one of

the citizens announced that his relatives in Sweden
were completely surprised that in far away
America they, too, celebrated this all important
day in the Swedish winter calendar.

An introduction to winter in
St. Louis County, Minnesota

By JONATHAN SAX

Mr. Sax, the author of this account

of Lucia Day and its incorporation
into the winter sports celebrations
conducted in Northern Minnesota. is
assistant to B. G. Leighton. Director
of the Leisure Education Depart-
mentI St. Louis County Rural Schools.

The Lucia Day Tradition

Lucia Day was usually ob
served in the western part of
Sweden, particularly in the
rural areas of the provinces of
V 'armland and Viistergotland.
Of late its observance spread
throughout Sweden and espe-
cially in the cities. The discov-
ery of this fact explained to us
why so many of our American
Swedes did not know of the
celebration. They came to this
country long before the celebration became as gen-
eral as it is now. Often the festivities were limited
to the family and its own home. Recently, how-
ever, large cities like Stockholm have made the
event one of city—wide importance and interest. A
large newspaper in the city has Sponsored the pro-
gram, making the selection of a Lucia bride who
reigns for the day a popularity contest among the
girls and thereby increasing the participation by .
the citizens.

The day of St. Lucia, as it is celebrated at the
present time, has not the remotest connection with
the Italian saint after whom the celebration was
originally named. Her name, which in Latin means
a feminine bringer of lights, is perhaps the only
current relation between her and the Swedish holi-
day. During the Middle Ages it was believed that
the night before December 13th 'was the longest of
the year and that with Lucia Day the increase of
daylight would begin with the return of longer
days.

Here it should be pointed out that the tradi—
tional Lucia bride always wears a crown of can-
dles or lights in her hair to symbolize the light
needed on this shortest day of the year. There are
other reasons for the lights which will be men-
tioned later. The N ordisk Familjebok gives us a
good version of the saintly origin and martyrdom
of Lucia. She lived in Syracuse and “is repre-
sented as a maiden of noble birth who, when her
mother was miraculously cured of an illness, gave
her dowry to poor Christians. The maiden’s be-
trothed then denounced her as a Christian to the
prefect Paschasius, who ordered her to be seized
and taken to a brothel. But it was impossible to

537

538 LUCIA DAGEN

move her from the spot, and when a fire was
lighted around her she was not harmed by it.
Finally she was transpierced by a sword and gave
up the ghost. According to a later legend, Lucia
put out her eyes with which the youth had fallen
in love and had them carried to him on a platter,
whereon he was moved to become a Christian.
Afterward God gave her new eyes still more
beautiful than before. Lucia is invoked for diseases
of the eye; she is the patron saint of farmers.”
When one realizes that Sweden was at- one time
a Catholic country, it is easy to understand the
introduction of this saint and her day into the
folkways and mores of the Swedish people.

White for Purity

In most homes one of the daughters was selected
to be the “Lussibrud,” by which name she was
addressed throughout the day and never by her
real name. She was dressed in a long white gar-
ment to symbolize her purity. In some districts
she wore a crimson sash and tinsel on her collars
and cuffs as the embodiment of the Christmas
spirit. Tradition had it that the lights in her
crown, interwoven with myrtle or evergreens,

would drive away the evil spirits in the air, or the
H candles might symbolize the light which had been
removed from her eyes. Some maintained that the
crown of candles originated among the people of
the Northlands who considered fire and light es-
sential to life on this feast day of the year. In more
well—to-do homes one of the servant girls was
dressed as the Lussibrud. It was the privilege of
the Lucia bride to serve the men and elders in the
family at dawn with cheese, pork, ham, brandy,
“glb'gg” (mulled wine), coffee, freshly baked saf-
fron buns and cakes in the shape of twists or cats,
called “Lussikatt” or “Do'velskatt” (devil’s cat,
thought to be a substitute for a cat sacrifice to the
powers of the earth).

In honor of Lucia Day no one slept very much
the night before. Immediately following midnight
the women began to cook coffee, roast pork, and
cut the “grissylta” (brawn or headcheese). No
home was too poor to make preparations for the
feasting. According to an old proverb, if one cele-
brated with due lavishness and reverence, pros-
perity would continue to bless the family through-
out the coming year. The year’s threshing, spin-
ning, weaving, and winter baking were finished
before Lucia Dagen, and everything put in order.

On Lucia Dagen much outdoor recreation took
place, including sleigh rides at night from home to

home. Large groups of people, young and old,
joined in singing carols and rode through the night
to the sound of bells in sleighs decorated with
torches of pine knots. In the early morning of
Lucia Dagen, after a hearty breakfast, fishing and
shooting by the light of torches were an important
part of the day’s activities. Lucia and her brides-
maids, also dressed in white, often visited the
homes of laborers and begged to offer their trays
of coffee and “lussikatter.” At the outskirts of
Stockholm there was a place known as Lucia
Square where on Lucia Day coffee and cakes were
served during the afternoon with the compliments
of the committee in charge. (According to an
ancient Catholic tradition, Lucia was a medieval
saint who went about carrying food and drink to _
the hungry in her district.)

The evening before Lucia Dagen was spent in
feasting and games and storytelling. In early times
they apparently stayed up all night, from which we '
get the term “Lussivaka” (Lucia Wake).

Among the other extremely interesting customs .
popular in connection with the day’s activities was
the treatment given the animals of the household.
The cat was given cream; the dog got a bone; the
cattle were fed hay instead of straw; and the sheep
feasted on leafy branches.

A prayer recorded in the eighteenth century in
the province of Skane was read on the eve of
Lucia Dagen. If the prayer was read with the
proper devotion by the girls eager to get married,
they would surely be married during that year.

Patroness of the Gnomes

Lucia was considered by some people to be the
patroness of the gnomes or “little folks” who were
about at this time of the year. She was said to be
able to control the destinies of pe0ple. If they of-
fended these little folk, ill luck would follow. Ac-
cording to an old Norrland folk tale, Lussi was
Adam’s wife before he married Eve. The religious
theme was present even in this apparently gay
celebration. Carolers would be attired to repre-
sent Biblical characters. In fact, Judas would as-
sume a charitable note, for during the visits to the
homes he would go from group to group collecting
money for his money bag to be used for the poor
or as a contribution for the entertainment which
was always an essential part of the festivities.

The plan of the St. Louis County rural schools
to help perpetuate and stimulate interest in the
folk customs, lore, music, and arts of the many
nations whose descendants are among the residents

 

LUCIA DAGEN 539

of our large county is greatly furthered through
the development of the Lucia Dagen celebrations
which are becoming an important part of the win-
ter calendar. Primarily the festivals are developed
by the people themselves through committee
action, with the assistance of the Leisure Educa-
tion Department’s workers in the field. Each rural
community in the county interested in organizing
a well-balanced winter activities program is en-
couraged to set up a local Lucia Dagen committee.
Several communities may cooperate and stage a
regional celebration. Last year the first county-
wide celebration in honor of Lucia Dagen was
developed by a large number. of committees from
i the many communities surrounding the Cotton
High School.

To stimulate interest in this delightful event, the
Greater Rural St. Louis County Winter Frolic
Association (an active organization of lay citizens
which has been developed by the County Schools)
encouraged the staging of the first county-wide
Lucia Dagen celebration. The Association printed
and distributed through
the school children,

clothes, kodaks, and other matters), and How to
Obtain Further Information Regarding the Event.

The working committees included a county-wide
committee composed of citizens from key com-
munities and organizations throughout the county.
The chairman of the Frolic Association previously
mentioned, Helmer Gustason; the County Super-
intendent of Schools, Arthur Lampe; and the
Regional Recreation Director, Mary Zakovich,
were on this committee. Functioning locally were
committees on music, smorgasbord, museum of
crafts, Lucia bride and bridesmaids, customs and
traditions, publicity, winter sports events, winter
sports facilities, Lucia Dagen dance, hospitality
(important and often neglected), invitations, win-
ter sports movies, radio committee for broadcast,
refreshments for dance, hall arrangements, sound
car, and trees for decorating stage, snow, and
sports areas. The chairman of each committee was
on the general arrangements committee. All these
committees were essential. With out them the pro-
gram could not have been carried out. Moreover,
by developing the pro-
gram through commit-

 

chambers of commerce,
and other organizations,
almost 5,000 handbills
announcing and de-
scribing the event. The
bill was headed with the
Swedish word, “Halsn-
ing,” meaning “greet-
ings.” The yellow bill
was printed in blue let-
ters (colors of flag of
Sweden) and listed the
program and -activities
of the day. In addition
to the name of the event,
place, time, and date,
short paragraphs ap-
peared under the fol-
lowing headings: Smor-
gasbord, Moving Pic-
tures of Local and
County Winter Sports,
Entertainment Pro-
gram, Winter Sports
Events, Lucia Dagen
Dance, Museum of
Crafts and Heirlooms,
General Suggestions (on
wearing winter play

Lucia Dagen celebrations have restored "Spark
Stotting." the kick sled so popular in Sweden. The

passenger sits on a chair mounted on two long run-

ners. The driver stands behind the chair with his
left toot on the right runner. With his right toot
he kicks or "paddles." sending the sled forward.
His right shoe should have a cleat or "broddar"
on it to give him a better hold on the snow.

 

tee action, local citizen
and community respon-
sibility is achieved.

These committees met
regularly for an exten-
sive period of time prior
to the actual date of the
celebration. After the in-
dividual committees met
and made their deci-
sions, they reported
through the chairman to
the frequent general as- '
sembly meetings, where
the report was either ac-'
cepted or adjusted to
{it the complete plan. It
should be indicated that
these committee mem-
bers were rural people
who live in the open
country in a wide spread
area surrounding the
Cotton High School.
Nine open country com-
munities are serviced by
this consolidated high
school.

(Continued on page 580)

Christmas Wrapping Paper

Put on your thinking cap
and "go original" in your
wrapping paper this year!

method for making gayly decorated paper for

Christmas wrappings. The technique employed
is simple enough to be used by a six year old child,
and yet the designs can be made elaborate enough
to delight an experienced craftsman. Here is the
way to make your printing block:

POTATO OR ERASER printing offers an excellent

 

Potato Prints. A potato is cut in half and al-
lowed to stand until the surface becomes some—
what dry. A design is then
painted on with a brush and
tempera (poster) paint and
again allowed to dry. Next
incise the. outline of the de-
sign with a small knife and
cut away the background so
the design stands up about
' one-quarter of an inch from
the rest of the potato.

The design is then printed
with tempera paint applied
directly to the potato either by a paint soaked

cloth pad, or by a brush. It can be applied to
paper only when the potato is moist.

   

540

 
    

 

000

SUGGESTED DESIGNS

 
 

Eraser Prints. Art gum erasers can be purchased
at 5 and 10 cent stores and the large ones cut into
three or four pieces for small designs. They should
be cut with great care, however, preferably with a
razor blade, in order to have a smooth surface for
the print. Since pencil marks do not show on an
eraser, scratch the outline of the design with a pen.
The outline is then incised with a sharp knife and
the background cut away to one-eighth inch depth.
Apply tempera paint with a brush for printing.

You might look through your old Christmas
cards for design suggestions. There are many de-
signs symbolic of Christmas such as holly, bells,
trees, candles, and poinset—
tas. A single motif” may be
,used in a repeat pattern, or
two symbols combined and
printed alternately into an
all-over pattern, or as a
border. If the paint is ap-
plied with a brush it is pos-
sible to use two or more
colors on one block, such as
a blue candlestick with a
yellow flame, or green holly leaves and red ber-
ries. It is well to experiment with a number of
different motifs and colors and try them in dif-
ferent repeat arrangements before you make up

\./J

CUTTING THE
DESIGN

your final pattern. It should be measured out with

(Continued on page 578)

   

 

   

Epiphany. observed on the twelfth day
after Christmas. was originally a festival
of great solemnity. Later it became a
time for fun and frolic when dignity was

laid aside and all joined in the revels.

WELFTH NIGHT, the grand finale of the Christ-

mas season, is a celebration of many moods,

but the prevailing spirit has nearly always
been that of carnival. It marks the end of the
Christmas season, but there is also the'anticipation
of 'Lent in the air. 80 there is the idea of carni-
val—farewell to the flesh, for that is What “car-
nival” means—and the ways of celebrating are in
consequence hilarious to make up in advance for
the days of penitence that will follow shortly.

Farmers and all who live close to the soil realize
how dependent man is upon the yield of the earth,
and they have for centuries set aside this day to
ask a blessing upon the trees and crops. Many
extraordinary "ceremonies grew up and are still
observed to insure a good harvest, but they always
end in a joyous revel in the evening. Sometimes
the blessing was invoked on the eve of Twelfth
Day so that the Whole day itself could be jolly
and merry.

Toasting the-trees, especially the apple tree, with
cider or wassail is one of the persistent customs.
Twelve small fires and a thirteenth larger one are
lighted in the orchard in some places. These rep—
resent Christ and his twelve apostles. Around the
thirteenth fire the farmer and his helpers stand. The

Revelry

wassail 'is passed and they sing and drink to the
trees. Sometimes “the trees are sprinkled or
baptized with cider.
0 tree! 0 tree! 0 tree!
Bear fruit- and flourish —

Thy owner nourish —
Give wealth and plenty.

is one old invocation. And Robert Herrick, the
country parson who has left us some of the most
beautiful poetry about English life, sang —
Wassail the trees that they may bear
You many a plum, and many a pear;
For more or less fruits they will bring
As you do give them wassailing.

As a variation of this custom, in some English
counties and in Ireland the people forestall blight
and smut in wheat and oat fields by calling down
a Twelfth Day blessing upon them.

It is good to think of these simple, healthy-
minded folk, who never became drab or stodgy in
their religion, but incorporated it into their daily
lives and were not afraid to be riotous and jolly on
a holy day, after due respect had been paid to the
religious meaning of the day.

Twelfth Night celebrations vary in different
countries, but the Norwegian and English custom

541

542 TWELF TH NIGHT RE V ELR Y

of “plundering the Christmas tree” perhaps offers
more opportunities for an evening of reveling than
do the more religious ones.

Plundering the Christmas Tree

It was believed that one way to bring good luck
to the home for the coming year was to keep the
Christmas greens until the Feast of the Epiphany,
which is January 6th or Twelfth Night. Christ-
mas trees were left standing with all their decora-
tions until that evening when the plundering of
the tree began. After sundown, people wishing to
take part in the celebration would meet and go
from house to house where they would dance
around the tree and partake of the last of the
Christmas goodies.

In anticipation of the arrival of the guests, the
hostess would remove all ornaments from the tree,
together with the polished fruits and the candies
that had been wrapped in brightly colored tin foil,
and place them in small piles around the room.
When the guests arrived they were allowed to
choose the pile that had the greatest appeal for
them, and the candy and fruit served as refresh-
ments. The tree ornaments were taken home and
carefully stored away until the next year, when
they were used to decorate their own tree.

After each home had been visited and all the
Christmas trees plundered, they were carried to
the center of the town and burned. The celebra-
tion ended around the huge bonfire, and we might
imagine every one singing the last stanza of
“Gather Around the Christmas Tree”:

 

Farewell to thee, 0 Christmas tree!
Farewell to thee, 0 Christmas tree!
Thy part is done
And thy gifts are gone,
And thy lights are dying one by one:
For earthly pleasures die today,
But heavenly joy shall last alway,
Hosanna, hosanna, hosanna
in the highest!

King of the Bean

There is also the ancient and honorable cere—
mony of the “crowning of the King of the Bean,”
who reigned supreme during Twelfth Night and
was allowed to choose a lady to be his Queen.
This custom probably originated in France, al—
though it was also practiced in England and
Scotland.

The French king would invite members of his
court to assemble on Twelfth Night to elect a King t
of the Bean by acclamation. Everyone, including
the servants, was allowed to vie for the honor.
First the j ugglers stepped before the king and per-
formed their most difficult feats; the minstrelsl
played and sang their choicest music; the court
jester told his favorite jokes; and even the gentle-
men and ladies in waiting entered the contest by
performing in plays or telling stories. The person
who received the greatest applause was crowned
King of the Bean and clothed in a scarlet robe. 1
He reigned during the evening.

There are suggestions in this ancient custom for
a modern Twelfth Night party. Or, if you wish to
introduce a nationality theme, why not model your
party on one given by Mary Queen of Scots? At
the age of six, she had been sent to France to be *
educated in her mother’s country, and with her
went three little girl companions. They were known
as the “Four Marys,” because the given name of
each of them was Mary.

One Twelfth Night, Mary Queen of Scots had
a King of the Bean party in Holyrood, and Mary
Fleming drew the Bean. The story goes that Mary
allowed her to dress in clothes selected from her
wardrobe and permitted her to rule as Queen for
the Day. This incident might suggest a theme for
a Scottish party, or it would be equally suitable for
a French party, as Mary undoubtedly learned of
the custom in France.

The Twelfth Cake

In England no “Little Christmas” was complete
without a Twelfth Cake. These cakes were gen-

(Continued on page 578)

- VER—ORGANIZATION can be
4- as much of a detriment

l
l;
l
l

individuals is

uPlay l-las lnheren'l: Values"

to the enjoyment of
sports and athletics as the op—
posite extreme represented by
total lack of planning. Our
tendency at the present time is
to over-organize our recreation
activities. In our zeal to make
provisions for the increased
participation of more and more
people in leisure-time activities
we have gone over to another

individual

extreme. Programs and program plans have be-

come so complex and so well worked out in every
detail by the professional leader that the charge is
sometimes made that they now leave to the child
but a single choice—the decision as to whether he
will be a part of it or not. There is little opportunity
to take any part in initiating the activity, in plan-
ning its course, in making provisions for its con—
duct, in helping to solve problems that arise; in
short, all he needs to do is to fill a certain spot in
a complete scheme. Too often the adult program
leader has lost sight of the true
purpose of the activity. The
fact that the trained leader has
a keen insight
into the needs
and desires of

no indication.
that he should
do all the work
and deprive the
participant of
what is perhaps
the most vital
part in the Whole
plan. In recrea-
tion agencies,
intramural de-
partments of
schools, parks
a n d p l a y -
grounds, the ob-
server can find
c o m pl e t e l y

By JERRY SALTERS

Off the Street Club
. Chicago, Illinois

Here is a challenge to the recrea-
tion worker! Do you agree that rec-
reation programs are over-organized?
That point systems serve no impor-
tant purpose? That the child as an
little considered
in our program? Read this article,
and if you have the answers to the
questions raised. let us have them!

is too

Winter sports "fans" in Coggeshall
Park. Fitchburg. l'vlassachusettsI are
obviously playing for the fun of it!

 

worked schemes of competi-
tions, including a comprehen-
sive system of points to be
awarded for all kinds of rea-
sons. In one school, that is not
unique, points are given for
the following reasons—for be-
ing a member of a varsity
team, playing in each victorious
game, playing in each losing
game, participation in a tour-
nament, for each match lost,
for each match won, points for
participation in dramatics, in handcraft, in
scouting.
Something seems to have gone seriously wrong
when we find it necessary to resort to this false
lure to get'boys and girls to participate in activi-
ties that we believe to be interesting and worthy.
Something is sadly lacking in our approach if
these promotion schemes are necessary. I believe
that our major mistake is in the point of view that
we have emphasized. With pride we can point to
the fact that at long last we have realized the
crying need for the expansion
of the recreation program to
include more and- more people.
To the cry for
freedom from
unnecessary re-
quirements of
performance we
have given a
partial answer
by organizing
sports and ath—
Ietics on an in-
tramural basis.
In making this
shift, however,
we have missed
the point. To be
sure we have
6 v 0 l v e d a
method of or-
ganization that
permits larger
numbers to par-

543

544 “PLAY HAS INHERENT VALUES”

 

 

3"“-

Courtesy East Boston Social Center Council

The more highly organized games now share the

ticipate, but only in a
limited sense. Play for its
own‘ sake should be characterized by some spon-
taneity and the fun and joy which come from
activity that is vigorous and pleasant in that it
captivates our interest and heightens the sense of
well being.

In our previous forms of organization if a boy
'wanted to become a part of the athletic program
he was usually directed toward some form of pre-
‘liminary practice and training preparatory to ap-
plying for a varsity team. He aimed to be a meme
'ber of a highly skilled group that followed a pro—
gram of keen competition. Today we ask his
counterpart to become a part of a vast intramural
organization that functions according to the well-
oiled plans of a physical director who probably
has never seen the particular participants. What
price we pay in the loss of individuality for par-
ticipation in such a scheme!

This is an amazingly arid soil on which to raise
self—dependent individuals who can assume a share
in a common project! Where, in all "this complex
and often confusing maze of programs and super—
programs is there a genuine Opportunity to exer—
cise good judgment on the part of the,individual,
where he can be a distinct part contributing in his
own unique way? Where is the recreative element?

These criticisms apply to the programs worked
out in many localities and single agencies including

child's interest with less strenuous activities

our own. Several years ago
we undertook at the Off
the Street Club to slowly change our approach.
Slowly but surely we have done away with the
point systems as such. We have discontinued the
practice of confronting the child with an accom-
plished fact. It is now possible for all groups and
individuals in our organization to organize and
formulate many of their own activities. Coupled
with this has been a broadening of the base of par-
ticipation in another direction, the enrichment of

,the program in opportunities for participation

along lines that are really significant, since they
represent much more of the child than his physi-
cal presence.

This has been made possible primarily through
a revision of the basic organization of our agency.
In place of a complete class type of organization
we have organized our agency mainly in terms of
small groups and natural clubs. These groups
range in number anywhere from eight to fifteen.
Large classes have been discouraged as the main
feature and we have substituted a series of periods
for smaller groups. Often these small units
have developed into well-organized clubs with good
size enrollments. They have a great deal of au-
tonomy in planning programs and developing re—
lationships with other similar groups throughout
the city.

(Continued on page 585)

it Belongs to Them

" 00K! Look!” shouts a
L child in excitement
and delight. Across
the stage they march —
Cinderella in rags, Pin—
nochio with his funny nose, tiny folk dressed like
gnomes, fairies and pixies, Jo in her hoop skirt,
followed by Peter Pan and lovable, absent—minded
Stitch, the tailor. These and hundreds of other
friends from the land of make-believe have taken
their places, spoken their lines, and then moved on
across nine years of production at the Palo Alto
Children’s Theater.

The theater, which is housed in a building of its
own, operates a twelve month program of educa-
tional and recreational dramatics. Numerous
features, from brightly painted murals on the walls
of the auditorium to properties designed for the
special use of “little people,” all add appeal to the
theater for children. Financed directlyby the city

as a part of the municipal Recreation Department, —

By HAZEL GLAISTER ROBERTSON
Director

Community Children's Theater
- Palo Alto. California

the theater has ust com-
pleted its ninth year of
development.

Serving the children of
Palo Alto is the prime role
of the theater, and every year between eight and
nine hundred different children enter the magic
portals of the theater into the land of “let’s pre—
tend,” where there is fun as well as purposeful
recreation for everyone. Having such a large per.—
centage of, school population in participation, the
Children’s Theater also provides an opportunity to
test present-day educational theories and presents
laboratories for those in secondary schools to
further their interest in theater art, photography,
costume and set design, as well as in stage lighting.

During the school year, a major production is
given every six weeks. Naturally, with ages vary-
ing from the primary to the secondary levels, the
types of plays selected must be greatly varied.
Evidence of this variation is apparent in some of

 

545

546 [T BELONGS TO THEM

 

the most popular plays including “Peter Pan,"
“The Camel with the Wrinkled Knees,” “The
Emperor’s New Clothes,” “Snow White and the
Seven Dwarfs,” “The Singing Tree,” and “Little
Women.” Producing such a schedule has its prob-
lem of play selection, and this situation is best
answered by using scripts especially adapted for
it by competent playwrights.

With the summer schedule of a different show
every week, there is a challenge for quick but
thorough work, .A and a great need for help from
outside the theater. Answering this need are vol-
unteer workers, practice teachers from Stanford
University and traffic violators in Palo Alto. This
latter innovation comes as quite a surprise to many
motorists. Instead of paying a monetary fine, for
every dollar fined the offender has the privilege of
sewing in the theater sewing room for a specified
length of time. Even among those who may not
at first have been keen to sew a pair of satin
breeches, there have been many friends made for
the theater as the result of this procedure. Help
from these workers is especially enlisted in one of
the theater's main undertakings of the year, when

costumes are being made for the city—wide Spring
Festival.

Once having “been in a play,” the children’s
interest in the theater frequently continues to other
age levels. It is often true that while fourth and
fifth graders are producing, senior high school
students compose the stage crew or act as ushers,
dressing room assistants and assistant electricians.
It is this continued interest and the resulting in-
telligent help and leadership that makes the theater
program possible.

While the Children’s Theater serves Palo Alto
children in either passive or active recreation, it is
doing a more important job—that of fitting the
child to live more happily among his fellows. To
sense responsibility to the group, once a task is
undertaken; to realize that he is no more import—
ant to the group than the amount he contributes
toward the project; to think in an emergency;
and lastly, to create intelligent attitudes toward
entertainment are the principles under which the
Children’s Theater attempts to do its part in
building good citizens of the future.

(Continued on page 582)

Gymnasiums and Play Areas tOr
Community High Schools

N THE COMMUNITY high school, the gymnasium
and playgrounds must be genuine community

agencies. They should be so designed and con- By CHARLES E. FORSYTHE

 

structed that youth and adults alike may use them.
While physical education and the playing of ath—
letic games are the immediate uses for these phases
of the school plant, there are more significant out-
comes to be derived. Children should learn health-
giving and body—building techniques, fundamental
neuro—muscular skills, but most important they
should learn how to play. Adults are attracted to
school gymnasiums and playgrounds either as
spectators at athletic contests or because they want
to participate in an athletic activity which may be
enjoyable to them; Not many adults come to our
gymnasiums and playgrounds specifically to ac-
quire physical fitness or (athletic skills, but rather
because of sociability, opportunity to play, and
personal enjoyment. Possibly the present emphasis
on physical fitness and “the hardening up process”
as applied to our young men of selective service
age may alter this situation somewhat. It cer—
tainly presents a challenge to those in charge of
our physical education, athletic, and recreation
programs.

Recently a new unit was added to the high
school building at Adrian, Michigan, a community
of approximately 15,000. On the marquee over
the separate entrance to this school unit is the single
word “Recreation.” In this new building there are
included a gymnasium, swimming pool, music
room, art room, and manual arts and machine
shops. And all these in the recreation unit! This
means that the school youth and community adults
have a common interest in this new building which
certainly is serving in a dual
community—school capacity.
These activities are a part
of the regular school pro-
gram and also are so ar-
ranged that they attract and
captivate the adult interest
of the community.

Gymnasium Consid-

erations

The procedure to be fol-
lowed in the remainder of
this presentation will be

The planning of school buildings for commu-
nity use is so important a matter that we are
very glad to be able to present. through the
courtesy of the U. 5. Office of Education' an
article stressing the details which should be
given consideration in planning or maintain-
ing the gymnasium and play areas as parts of
the community high school. The article is one
of five incorporated in Circular No. I97I
published by the U. 5. Office of Education
under the title.-"Planning Rooms for Some
Activities of the Community High School."
Recreation workers will find this valuable.

Mr. Forsythe is State Director of High
School Athletics. State Department of
Public Instruction' Lansing, Michigan

that of listing signihcant details which should be
given consideration in planning or maintaining the
gymnasium and play area as parts of the commu—
nity high school. Size, location, construction ma-
terial, heating, and coordination of the gymnasium
with existing school units are matters for archi-
tectural and budget determination. There are de-
tails, sometimes minor, that are important, how-
ever, and which often may make the difference
between major utility of the gymnasium or its
half—use. The following are among those in gym—
nasium construction which should be so considered :

Parking Areas. Many times adults will make
greater use of gymnasiums and playgrounds if
adequate and orderly parking areas are available.
Gymnasiums often are constructed without giving
this important matter sufficient consideration.

Gymnasium a Separate Unit. If possible, ar-
range the gymnasium or recreation unit so that it
may be entered and left without using the main
part of the school building. This is economical
from the standpoint of heating, lighting, and jani-
tor service. It allows use of the gymnasium for
adults and school athletic contests in the evening
without disturbing the bal-
ance of the school building.

A "Recreation" Unit.
Combine other phases of
the recreation and physical
education programs in the
recreation unit. This is
economical, educationally
sound, and appealing from
a public relations stand-
point.

Auditorium - Gymnasium
Combinations. Numerous

547

548 GYMNASIUMS AND PLAYAREAS FOR COMMUNITY HIGH SCHOOLS

combinations of this type have been built and the
arrangement is justifiable if necessary. The chief
objection is the conflict in use of the same space
by different interests at the same time. Play and
' musical practices, community pageants, athletics—
all may want the building at the same time. Ideally,
the gymnasium and auditoriumshould be separated.

Maximum Floor Space. A few extra dollars spent
in increasing the usable floor space will be justi—
tied in most cases. Allow space for spectators and
community use of the gymnasium.

Vestibule Gymnasium Entrance. If possible ar-
range the outside entrance to the gymnasium so
that there is quite an extensive vestibule between
the door and the floor itself. This will protect the
gymnasum fioor in stormy weather when the gym-
nasium is used for athletic games and when it is
necessary to seat spectators in bleachers or chairs
on the gymnasium fioor.

Public Telephones and Rest Rooms. Arrange
these for public use so that the main part of the
school building is undisturbed. Toilet facilities for
men and women should be adequate and available
as near the building entrance as possible. Specta-
tors should be kept out of the locker room toilets.

Divided Gymnasiums for Boys and Girls. Many
gymnasiums are being built with sound-proof slid—
ing doors for separation into boys’ and girls’ units.
Doors recess into the wall and the large floor is
available for school games and community use. Be

sure doors are sound-proof and that they perform
satisfactorily mechanically.

Bleachers—Storage Space. A common practice
is to build permanent bleachers on either one or
both sides of the gymnasium floor with locker and
shower rooms and staff offices underneath. In
other instances there is storage 'space for gym-
nasium equipment (if used) and chairs under the
bleachers or stage if the unit is a combination
auditorium-gymnasium.

A comparatively recent product on the market
is the fold-away or recessing bleachers which oc-
cupy two or three feet of space against a wall when
not in use. They are safe and convenient and
allow for maximum use of floor space for class and
adult activities at other than game times.

Provide for sufficient entrances to bleachers if
they must be reached from the gymnasium floor.
This will lessen injury to the floor finish. Some-
times rubber mats are placed on floors in front of

temporary bleachers to protect the floor. This also
is a sanitary precaution.

Locker Rooms and Showers. These are often an
unseen but most important part of the unit. So-
called gang showers for boys and semi—private or
private showers for girls with central water mixing
devices for temperature control are advocatedf
These are more economical to operate than other
single unit types. Provide for “drain-away” run—
ways from the shower room to the locker rooms.
Be sure the floor is a non-slippery surface. Master
or “family” lockers with small unit lockers gen-
erally are advocated if a complete locker system
with basket plan is used. Arrange for forced-air

locker ventilation.

Recessed Wall Projections. All drinking foun- 

tains, mat hangers, doorknobs, etc., in the gym- 
nasium should be recessed in walls as a safety pre-
caution. Cork or cork-combination wall surfaces
are sometimes recommended opposite play areas. I

Rounded Corners. Round all corners opposite
the playing areas in the gymnasium. This applies
to woodwork or masonry. Pad all necessary pro-
j ections into which a player or class member might
run during competition or instruction.

_ Radiators. Place these high enough on the wall
so they are not in the range of a player if he
should run into the wall.

Lighting. If there are steel girders above the
playing floor, place lights at the lower edge—not
under the roof. Protect the lights and reflectors
with wire cages. If lights are above the girders
there are likely to be shadows on the playing floor.

Window and Light Screens. Probably it is un-'
necessary to remind school men that there should
be window and light screens. In too many gym-
nasiums, however, this is not properly done; in
others there is no provision for its being done.
Thermostats and electric scoreboards should be
protected.

Root Skylights and Sun Rays. Keep these mat-
ters in mind when designing the gymnasium. Un-
less provision is made for shading windows and
skylights there is likely to be a portion of the day
when sun rays are a distinct nuisance and a a
safety hazard in numerous activities where a flying
object is a part of the game or instruction.

Root Condensation. Sometimes this is a prob—
lem that cannot be anticipated. It has appeared
mostly in larger gymnasiums and, field houses.

Give it consideration when designing the gym-
nasium.

Team Equipment—Storage—Laundry and Drying
Facilities. Include a place for handling team equip-

 

GYMNASIUMS AND PLAY AREAS FOR COMMUNITYHIGH SCHOOLS

' ment, its distribution, care
and cleaning. These facilities
should be adjacent to the
team or general locker rooms
for convenience and utility.
The Floor. This is probably
- the most important factor in
' gymnasium construction be-
cause of the use and abuse it
receives. Composition floors generally are not sat-
isfactory because they do not have sufficient “give”
,_ to them. This tires players. A new type of floor
built on flat steel springs has made its appearance
recently and seems to be satisfactory. It is a little
‘ too new to recommend unqualifiedly, but it seems

to have been enthusiastically received where in '

use. This floor has a perceptible “give” and the
players like it.

Full Utilization. Include facilities in the gym-
nasium for handball, shuffleboard, squash, wres-
tling, ping-pong, etc., as well as for basketball and
i the other more common sports in the original
plans. They do not cost much more proportion-
. ately and will add to the more complete utilization
' of the gymnasium.

Play Area Considerations

It is not maintained that the above list of items
in gymnasium construction and maintenance is all-
inclusive. Many important matters have been
omitted either purposely or inadvertently. An at-
tempt has been made, however, to enumerate some
‘ of the things that are sometimes overlooked when
planning and construction are under way. N o
i mention has been made of the swimming pool and
its associated problems. Time does not permit its
inclusion.

In connection with the playground of the com—
munity high school only brief suggestions will be
listed. It is assumed that both the adult public
and school youth will use this agency.

Parking Area. If a parking area can be a part of
or adjacent to the play field, this is highly desir-
able. It will add materially to its general utility.

Fencing of Play Areas. This is a safety precau-
tion and aids in supervision and control of the
playground.

Toilet Facilities. If the play area is adjacent to a
school its toilet facilities may be used. If not,
ample provision should be made for them.

Activities Layout. Separate the junior and
adult activities as a safety measure. Obviate the

"The community high school is an agency
which belongs to the community. The
gymnasium and play areas provide two
of the means by which the community
may receive dividends on its material in-
vestment. They are aids in the develop-
ment of the lives of its childrenI and
are ways by which the community may
enjoy recreation and re-create itself."

. a part-time basis?

5.49

necessity of children crossing
baseball, football, soccer, or
softball_playing areas in order
to enter or leave playgrounds
or to reach toilets. Arrange 1
children’s entrances and ex-
its with same thought in
mind.

Surfacing. Natural condi-
tions are major factors in this connection. Ages
of participants and activities also are important
considerations. Several commercial products are
on the market worthy of investigation. Play areas
can be made smooth, however, and free from ruts .
and stones. Dust should be controlled.

Areas for Different Activities. Definite statis-
tics are available for various activities. (See La
Porte, William Ralph, “The Physical Education .
Curriculum,” for areas needed for different sports.)
The amount of space necessary varies from 150
square feet per player for volleyball to 5,000 square
feet per player for baseball. Play areas should be
laid out with this information in mind.

Winter and Summer Activities. In northern
states playgrounds should be planned with sea-
sonal possibilities considered. Combination tennis
courts and skating rinks are examples.

Night Use. Lighted play fields are coming into
use for high school, college, and community rec-
reation athletic contests, pageants, music festivals,
skating, etc. Many fields may be lighted so that
there is greater utility for the use of the lights than
for just one activity. Lights may be swung on
poles and used for different seasonal activities.

Again it must not be inferred that these play-
ground suggestions are all-inclusive. They merely
include some of the items which should be given
consideration if the playground is to have even a
fair chance to be fully utilized.

“Why not use our school buildings on more than
.. . . Do not mistake me. I am
arguing not against good schools, but in behalf of
their full-time use—for lights and heat and cus-
todial service, and, above all, for recreational lead-
ership. Let us open indoor gyms and outdoor
playing fields, shops and laboratories, auditoriums
and classrooms to everyone who wants to ride a
hobby or pursue a sport. These are the people.
The people’s money builds the schools. And he who
pays the piper should be permitted to call the tune——
at least out of school hours.”—Hon. Paul V. M (:N utt.

What They Say About. Recreation

N HE NEED for wise choices of recreation is be-

Tcoming increasingly great and increasingly

difficult. To a considerable extent the caliber

of future generations and the character of our

nation will depend upon our use of this newly

found time for leisure.”—1Mildred L. Biddicle in
The Preparation and Use of Source Units.

“Let us develop the resources of our land, call
forth its powers, build up its institutions, promote
all its great interests, and see whether we, in our
day and generation, may not perform something
worthy to be remembered.”—Daniel Webster.

“Under good leadership, the playground pro—
gram may be an enriching experience in the "life
of a child. He may learn to appreciate the beauties
of life around him and find much joy in express-
ing himself through the arts, crafts, music, or
other n1ediums.”———Margaret E. Mulac in The
Playleadcrs’ Manual.

“The ‘ideal leader’ is he who yearns for indi-
vidual growth—physical, mental, social and spirit-
ual, to the end that all may lead more serviceable
and fuller lives.”—From The Post Dispatch.

“Today’s youth must be prepared for citizenship
in a democracy, taught how to earn a living and to
take part in a highly industrialized society. . . .
The course program must be prepared with a
recognition that the machine age has greatly in-
creased leisure time and, therefore, there is need

for education in the proper and wise use of free
time.”—Asa Knowles.

“Homes are the cement of national life. The
place where the nation learns how to live together.
The non—stop assembly line of character which is
the heart of national morale. If homes crack, the
nation cracks.”—From You Can Defend America.

“W e are committed to the sound policy that lei-
sure must complement labor. And that commit-
ment entails an obligation to see that hours off
duty can also be well spent—freely spent, without
regimentation, but with ample opportunity for all
the varied activities in which the up-and-coming

young people of the 1940’s are legitimately inter-
ested.”—-Paul V. McNutt.

550

“One thing I can do for my country is to know
how to keep groups of people—children, or old
people, or my own age—amused and occupied for
periods of time.”—From Training for Today’s
Needs, Girl Scouts, Inc.

“If we can observe play with sympathy and in-
telligence; if We can learn the probable forms of
routine enjoyment and spontaneous delight, can
we not then the better direct it to ends more sat-

isfying to the participants ?”—Abbie Graham in i

W orlcing at Play in Summer Camps.

“I verily believe that if we would spend more

time and effort in the making of our citizens, we 1

would not be obliged to spend so much in attempts
at their remaking.”—James A. Johnston, Warden,
Alcatraz Penitentiary.

“W e stand' at the gates of the age of plenty, key
in hand, fumbling at’ the lock. Make no mistake,
we face a new era. We are not going back, but
forward, to build in the New World a new and
liner form of democratic state, a loftier realm to
which human personality may wing its way and
find its home.”——-—Charles E. Merriam in Planning
in a Democracy, “American Planning and Civic
Annual.”

“Health and happiness are great attributes of
democracy, and laughter provides the milestones
of progress.”———Alice Keliher.

 

“Physicians who should know most about the
functioning of the nervous system agree that much
as medicine and treatment may be needed at times,
a hobby or two, well directed, will do much more
than either medicine or treatment in giving tone,
poise, and a feeling of well—being to a person with
a highly nervous temperament. Hence, it may be
logical to conclude that a hobby or avocation
planned properly is beneficial for every person.”——
“Rational, Resourceful Retirement,” Pennsylvania
Public Instruction, April 1941.

.—

“There is no race or creed or culture that has a
monopoly of Americanism—except the human race,
the creed of friendship and good will, and the cul-
ture of free speech and free opportunity.”——David
C ushnian C oyle in America.

 

 

Mason Park Builds a Horseshoe Court

HE MASON PARK

Horseshoe Club of

Houston, Texas, had
its origin in an old and
wrinkled piece of paper
containing the names, ad—
dresses, and telephone
numbers of seven men
interested in horseshoe
pitching. But only three
of the seven names were
legible. The list was given
to Adolph Schiller, di-
rector at the park, with
the suggestion that he or-

ganize a horseshoe club.

' By his own confession,
Mr. Schiller knew very
little about horseshoe
pitching and was not a
very good horseshoe
pitcher himself, but he
didn’t let that keep him from carrying out the sug-
gestion. He called the three men whose names
were readable on the wrinkled piece of paper and
interested them in the idea of organizing a horse-
shoe club. A meeting time was set. Notices were
placed on the playground bulletin board, articles
were sent to the Houston newspapers and the
community paper, and everyone interested in
horseshoe pitching was invited to attend the meet-
ing. Only two men came, so a meeting to be held
the following Monday was planned. This time
three men attended.

But “Rome wasn’t built in a day,” so redoubled
efforts were used to make the project a success.
The three men and the director decided a horse—
shoe tournament would be a good step toward
developing an interest in the sport of horseshoe
pitching. The date of the tournament was set a
month away, giving ample time for publicity and
planning. '

At the meeting when the tournament was being
planned, one of the men, who is a machinist, vol—
unteered to donate eight iron stakes with square
plates welded at the end so that they could not be
pulled out when placed in the ground. The director
volunteered to build the courts and arrange for

 

By ZORA Jov GIFFORD

Recreation Department
Houston. Texas

2 x4’s to make the boxes around the stakes. It
was not until the day of the tournament, however,
that supplies were on hand.

Mr. Schiller tells about building the courts: “It
was an extremely hot day, about 102 degrees in
the shade. At 9 A. M. on this hot day I com-
menced to build the courts and finished them at
6 :30 P. M., just as some of the tournament partici-
pants were beginning to arrive. Apologetically, I
asked them to permit me to go home to change
clothes and eat supper. When I returned at 7 :30,
there were twenty-three participants present,
much to my amazement.

“After the tournament, I asked all the partici-
pants to attend a meeting at the clubhouse the fol-
lowing Monday. Twelve men attended and officers
were elected.”

A committee of three was appointed by the presi—
dent to draw up a constitution, which was pre-
sented, approved and adopted by the club at the

551

552 MASON PARK BUILDS A HORSESHOE COURT

meeting the following week. The constitution pro-
vided that the regular business meeting of the
club would be the second Monday of each month
and that a membership fee of 2 5¢ per person would
be charged, with an initiation fee of 25¢. How-
ever, the club met every week for several weeks
gin the beginning to plan, shape and discuss future
7work of the organization.

I‘ At one of the weekly meetings, the vice-presi-
Tdent brought a copy of The Horseshoe World
containing a picture of the Rowan horseshoe courts
in Chicago. One member suggested that the Mason
Park club build courts modeled after the Rowan
courts, with a few modifications, which would cost
around $1,000, including labor and materials.

Another member said, “You’re too much of a
dreamer and idealist to think that we can build
courts of that kind.”

But the director was something of an idealist,
too, and he replied, “It can be done when we in-
crease our membership and work diligently to-
gether.” And it was done. Today, Mason Park
has the finest horeshoe courts to be found any-
where.

Minstrel Show for Money

The problem now at hand was how to raise the
funds for the project and how to go about starting
it. One day two of the club members approached
the director and asked him what he thought of the
club staging a Negro minstrel to raise some money.
The idea was approved, plans made, and work
begun. The club selected talent from the play—
ground and community, using boys and girls as
well as members of the club in the minstrel. Some
additional talent was secured, but the show was
directed by one of the members, who also played
the piano for the musical numbers.

Thirty dollars was cleared on the show. The
membership fees collected to December I, 1939,
had swelled the fund to $50—a far cry from the
$1,000 goal!

Knowing that it would take a long time to
reach the goal, the club decided to ask the Park
Department for some help. A letter, signed by all
members of the club, was sent to the superintend—
ent of the Department, stating the approximate
cost of the project. Plans of the courts were drawn
up and approved by the city Recreation and Park
Departments. The Park Department agreed to
furnish the materials for the courts on condition

of the previous promise of the club members to
furnish the labor, which they did.

The members, most of whom were employe
until 5 P. M., came to the playground as soon a
work was over and worked on the construction 0
the courts, often staying as late as midnight. Thei

,1 wives brought their suppers to the playgroun

while they were at work on. the courts—real inter
est in an adult group. (This may be the reaso
that one of the seven courts in the lay-out wa
planned for the use of women and children.

Before the construction of the courts began
lights had to be moved from the old horsesho
courts to the new location. The club sent a lette
to the Park Department asking to have the light
moved to the new site, but the Department had 11
funds available for this purpose. It was found tha
moving the lights would cost $250, which the club
couldn’t afford to pay. The Houston Lighting an
Power Company was approached and they agreed
to move the lights without .cost. _

Dirt had to be filled in on the new site to ele-
vate it above the level of the playground. For this
this club secured thirty loads of dirt from th
Street and Bridge Department.

The courts were completed in April, and arl
invitation tournament and official dedication wer
held May I, 1940. City officials and members 0
the staffs of the city Recreation and Park Depart
ments were invited to take part in the dedication .
Entry list for the tournament included 105 men
who came from the surrounding towns of Sugar
land, Friendswood and Galveston.

In June, 1940, a fence was installed around th
courts as a protection against injury of spectators
Ike Rese, president of the club, advanced $90 to
the club for the fence, with the understanding that]
he would be reimbursed with membership fees of
the club. Mr. Reese has received $50 of his money
and the club at present has about $25 in the fund.
The membership now stands at sixty-one. An
active campaign to increase the membership to at
least a hundred members was held by the club
during the past Spring. ‘

Recently elevated benches attached to steel set in
concrete have been installed around the courts for
the spectators.

Several tournaments have been staged, among
them club tournaments, city-wide playground
tournaments, and regional tournaments 'taking in
Houston, Galveston, Beaumont, Port Arthur and

.other surrounding cities. The winners in many of

these tournaments have been from Mason Park
horseshoe club. The state meet was held in Hous-

(Continued on page 583)

l

L

 

 

\

Courtesy Daily Post-Tribune, La Salle, Illinois

Memorial in Concrete

HE NEWLY-DEDICATED
recreation center in Ogles—
by, Illinois, stands as a
emorial to Theodore G.
ickinson, noted industrialist
nd cement manufacturer, who
ied in 1933. Complete with
ndoor and outdoor facilities,
I e $100,000 building has been given to the citizens
f Oglesby by Miss Bertha K. Evans of Liberty-
'lle, a major stockholder in the Marquette Cement
anufacturing Company which was founded by
r. Dickinson. There is not a single “stick of
cod” in the magnificent monolithic concrete
ructure.
Southernmost of the tri-cities of northern Illi—
is, Oglesby is a thriving little community of
ore than 4,000 people. Cement is her single
reat industry, and it is to the employees of the
larquette Company and to the people of Oglesby
at Miss Evans dedicated the recreation center.
ere, under the leadership of Recreation Director
arold Snedden, men and women, boys and girls
ill participate in a year—round program of leisure-
ime activities.
The Marquette Company furnished the twelve—
acre park site for the building and outdoor play
reas and has pledged responsibility for main-
nance of the Dickinson House in the future. The
ecreation director is provided by the city which
also plans to make contributions toward recrea—
t'onal and vocational equipment.

"This. the Theodore G. Dickinson House.
is a long-term investment by its donors
in the perpetuation of the 'American
Way of Lite' in Oglesby and in America."
Thus a speaker at the dedication of this
building described the center which has
become not merely a memorial in con;
crete but the heart of a living community.

Miss Evans formally pre-
sented her $100,000 gift to
Oglesby at dedicatory cere—
monies late in June. Most of
the facilities within the build—
ing were opened to the pub-
lic immediately, although the
bowling alleys and craft room
were not ready for use until this fall.

Dr. Frank A. Jensen, Illinois educator and
speaker of the day, told several hundred people at
the dedication that the recreation center should
result in the “evolving and developing'of a citizen—
ship that gives a real meaning to democracy.”

“The community center idea as it has evolved in
the United States has had as its ultimate aim the
better understanding of people in the community,”
he said. “Each community in America represents
a unit of our democracy and this unit is made up
of people with the traditions of many different
nationalities. The pooling of these traditions is
what makes a democracy.”

The house is reached by winding concrete roads
and walks through the park site. Two wings recede
diagonally from the main lobby. One wing houses
the swimming pool and locker rooms; the other
contains four regulation bowling alleys with space
for more alleys if necessary. A vocational shop is
located in the basement, and above it on the lirst
floor is a reading, study and quiet recreation room.

Beyond the building a recreation field spreads

(Continued on page 580)
. 553

Two Communities-One Problem—Two Solutions

tance of the family as a

social unit has thrown on
the community responsibility
for caring for many of the
one-time important functions
of the family. One of the chief
of these, the provision for
worthy use of leisure time,
has assumed paramount im-
portance. Recent increases in unemployed young—
sters of ages from sixteen to twenty-three, together
with the new accepted shorter working day, have
added to the problems incident to the use of
leisure time.

The church as an instrument for good in the
provision of community recreation facilities has
been swamped by a mass of youth who have turned
to it for guidance in leisure time. City and county
agencies, as well as the Federal government, have
made well-founded attempts to meet these needs.
No one of these agencies, nor all of them com-
bined, can adequately solve the problem of facili-
ties, equipment and competent leadership upon
which a worth-while leisure program adequate to
serve the needs of boys and girls is based, without
the help of the public school.

Into this problem, therefore, there must be in—
jected the school which, during most of the day,
provides for the recreative as well as the academic
needs of the youth in the lower age groups. In
the well planned and coordinated program, the
schools will help meet this problem in many ways.

For the purposes of this article let us consider
only one phase of the problem, namely, the use of
leisure time for recreation activities in the noon
recess periods.

Two approaches to a solution of this problem
are strikingly illustrated by two California com-

munities. Shall we designate these two California
communities as:

Community Number One: X City

Community Number Two: Bakersfield City
Common Problem: The use of leisure time dur-

ing the noon hour by secondary school pupils.

THE DIMINISHING impor-

A Negative Approach to the Problem

Two divergent solutions of this common
problem by these two communities are discussed

554

This account of an experiment in plan-
ning and conducting a program of noon
hour recreation for school children was
prepared by Grover A. Gates, Past Pres-
ident of the California Association for
Health' Physical Education and Recrea-
tion, in collaboration with Margaret Co-
wart and P. M. Bliss of the Physical Edu-

cation Staff of BakersfieldI California,
Union High School and Junior College.

in some detail as follows:

For some time the X City
Secondary Schools were faced
with the problem of the un-
wise use of noon hour leisure
time, as are all schools on
this level of education when
no guided and directed pro-
gram is offered. About 1929,
public school administrators
and school board members of X City met to dis—
cuss this problem and solved it by setting a uni—
form forty minute noon hour for all schools on the
secondary level in X City. This reduced by twenty
minutes the opportunity for relaxation from class—
room confinement that is so sorely needed by
adolescent youth, at the same time reducing by
twenty minutes the opportunity for a constructive
or destructive use of leisure time, depending on
what guidance was offered. In X City, because no
planned program and guidance was offered, this
leisure time was prostituted by the boys and girls
by being used as time for petting parties, speeding
automobiles, and “pool room” loaflng which, in
turn, provoked community criticism of school ad-
ministrators resulting in the above recorded action.

The pool room and loafing dens were open for
business, their programs were well planned and
were made alluring. Speeding automobiles and
petting parties were the way out for those who
did not like to loaf. The schools offered nothing
but criticism and condemnation. Reducing the op-
portunity to enjoy leisure time in place of offering
an opportunity for its enrichment was, in the
Opinion of many of us, solution of the problem by
negation. i

A small minority of teachers alert to the great
educational possibilities inherent in the leisure time
activities of boys and girls were much disturbed at
this solution of the problem by negation, and have
since that time persistently advocated a solution
founded on a pragmatic educational philosophy
more in accord with modern educational trends.
Recurrently, the shortened lunch hour is protested
by parents in X community on the basis of health
and inconvenience. These protests are apparently
less disturbing than were the protests regarding
the unguided activities of the boys and girls when
the longer noon hour was in effect, and the solu—

 

TWO COAIMUNITIES—ONE PROBLEM—TWO SOLUTIONS 555

'tion of the problem arrived at a decade ago still
persists. In this community it is evident that an
educational opportunity continues to be neglected.

Bakersfield Attacks the Problem

N ow for another picture: For several years the
.'near-by Bakersfield Union High School District
faced the same problem. The alert health, physi-
cal education, and recreation staff of the school
rrecognized the problem, suggested a solution, and
'with administrative backing, solved it from an edu-
cational point of View along the following pat-
tern: The noon recreation program, as a solution
ifor problems arising out of the undesirable prac-
itices of the school population during the lunch
hour, was first introduced on the Bakersfield
l' campus of the Kern County Union High School
and Junior College in the fall of 1938. Three
kinds of activities were presented for student en-
' joyment and participation.
i The most publicized and best accepted of the
'noontime activities are the outdoor games. In
planning these it was necessary to consider the
instructional program of the physical education de-
partments, the interests and skills of the students,
the fact that the games were to be played shortly
after students had eaten their lunch, and the cost
'of providing and maintaining the games equip-

 

ment. Those games were selected which have a-

positive carry-over into after school life and which
are not usually taught in the physical education
classes. At the same time, it was necessary to seek
I games that utilize small space while accommodat-
ing large numbers
of students. Of
course it was de-
sirable to present
games which are
easy to play, re-
quiring little skill
or instruction for
participants to
make a presentable
showing.

Two games were
provided at first,
and from these the
p r o g r a m h a 5
grown. Table ten-
nis is the better of
the two, because of
its low cost, small
space requirement,

 

and'immediate student interest. Twenty tables are
in present use, with an average of .200 students
participating in their use each day. In the
preparation of table tennis equipment for use,
school facilities have been utilized whenever pos-
sible. The only outright purchase of table tennis
equipment has been of balls and five—ply table tops.
The net—supports and paddles were made by stu-
dents in the wood shops, the nets were sewn of
canvas by the home economics students, and the
advanced welding classes constructed metal horses
to support the tables.

Badminton has established itself as a true carry-
over sport by its recent “backyard” growth in
private homes. Though costly to maintain, it sat-
isfies other requirements for a desirable light ac-
tivity and so was the other sport initially offered.
At present there are nine courts in operation, with
about 125 students playing each day. Because of
the fragile nature of the rackets and shuttlecocks,
an abnormal breakage was noted when the begin-
ning players were inexperienced. That the break~
age loss has decreased is encouraging, indicating
that the students have become more skillful in
their play.

It is interesting to note the spread of interest in
table tennis and badminton for after school hours.
The two school dormitories now offer table tennis
and, in addition, the girls’ dormitory has badmin—
ton. There is hardly a time after school when all

Ranking high in popularity in the list of
noontime activities are the outdoor games

~ . I?” "‘7"

 

n“. ..  r-.
u--\ _ .

C enter:

556 TPVO COMMUNITIES—ONE PROBLEM—TWO SOLUTIONS |

of this equipment is not in
use. Countless are the re-
quests received each year for
the specifications of table
tennis tables, supports, pad-
dles, and nets, and about the
cost of a good badminton.
set for home use.

Other sports activities
have been supervised, following student requests
for their inclusion in the program. Interest among
the boys was strong in handball and especially in
softball, and efforts to organize tournament play
have been successfully carried out. Volleyball was
sponsored as a new sport in the fall of 1939. It
has received widespread interest and is gaining in
popularity as this school year progresses. The year
of 1941 will see another new sport, horseshoes,
offered. It is noteworthy that each activity is al—
lowed to become firmly accepted and established
before additional ones are added. '

The second type of activity sponsored was social
dancing. Twice each week recorded music was
played over a loud speaker in one of the gymnasi-
ums. A strange paradox still presents itself at
these functions, which draw from 200 to 400 stu-
dents each period. Although the attendance is
large enough to establish this as the most effective
phase of the program, fewer than fifty couples are
to be seen dancing at any one time. Quite likely
the current “jitterbug” type of dancing is the
cause, for it is interesting to watch but difficult to
do. In order to stimulate social interest, as much
as an interest in dancing, instruction in social
dancing has been given to selected groups during
the noon periods. Clubs and class organizations
have requested and received lessons thrice weekly,
and each series of lessons covers ten days of actual
participation, or about three weeks. The student,
in order to receive this instruction, must present
the written approval of' parent or guardian. This
part of the program has grown and next year will
see it as an integral part of noon recreation.

The most popular of these three activities was
the weekly free movies, which filled the auditorium
to 1,000 capacity during each of the two lunch
periods. Educational and comedy films were
secured and projected by students under faculty
supervision, with Mickey Mouse by far the
favorite. During the rainy season, this feature of
the recreation program did much to overcome the
lag in games activity. Unfortunately, in March of
1939 the auditorium was condemned as a fire

Common Problem: The use of leisure time
'loefore school. at noon' after school.

weelt ends and during vacation periods.

Solution No. I : By negation—the loss of
an educational and cultural opportunity.

Solution No. 2: By education—resulting
in finer culture and better citizenship.

How is it met in your school and city?

hazard, and as no otherl

" room in 'the school seatedl
more than 300 students the
movies were discontinued.
These weekly free movies
will be resumed when the|
new auditorium has been|
built.

Student sponsorship andl
control of the program has not been left to chance.
A student noon recreation general committee was
formed in the fall of 1939. Representatives from
each class, from activity groups, and from studentll
organizations met with the faculty directors and a
key directing group was elected. This group was ,
composed of a chairman, as official link between'
students and. faculty; a vice-chairman in charge of
coordinating the various sports and activities; a
vice-chairman in charge of investigation, selection,
and sponsoring of the new activities; a secretary;
and chairmen for publicity, badminton, table tennis,
and noon dances. In weekly meetings the directing
committee planned Operations for the ensuingl
week. This planning was done largely by the vice-
chairman in charge of coordination, whose chief
job was to see that some group, council, or organi-
zation within the student body was given the 0p-1
portunity to sponsor an activity for the week. Such
sponsorship included the group participation of the
organization in charge — in tournaments, other,
forms of competition, or specially planned dances.
Publicity was given to these groups in the school
and local papers through press releases prepared
by the student publicity director.

This program has been a small step in the right
direction in the use of the school plant as a rec—
reation center. Much could be accomplished with
the Splendid facilities available during summer
vacation months for handcrafts, leisure reading,
games, and social activities. In the absence of a
well-organized program, specific use can best be
started by regularly scheduled social dances. And
so, for the second year the use of the gymnasium .
for Friday night dances will be made this summer, ,
at which young people of high school and junior 1
college age will “cut rugs and jive” at no charge.

Readers of RECREATION who are particularly in-
terested in noon hour recreation in 'schools will
wish to be reminded that three other significant
articles on the subect were published in the March
and September 1940 issues of the magazine.

The Defense Recreation Program

HE PRESIDENT of the United
States, as well as the offl-
cials in the Army and the
Navy, has definitely recognized
recreation as being a fundamental
part of the national defense pro-
gram from the standpoint of ser-
vice to the men in uniform, to
workers in defense industry, and to civilian morale.

This emphasis upon recreation and the ready
response of various government and private agen--
icies, national and local, has resulted in some con-
fusion as to responsibilities and relationships. The
following statement may help to clarify the
situation:

Within the Camps and Naval Stations

Complete responsibility for recreation activities
rests with the Army and the Navy.“

The Red Cross has been given special responsi-
bility for recreation programs in the hospitals in—
side the camps. ‘

Plans and programs are carried on by morale
officers in the Army and by specially—selected rec-
reation ofiicers in the Navy.

The Army and the Navy have built recreation
buildings, including Service Clubs and Hostess
Houses, and laid out recreation areas for the use
of the men inside the camps and naval stations.

Funds have been provided for the purchase of
recreation equipment.

Hostesses have been employed by the Army for
the Service Clubs and Hostess Houses in the
camps.

Camp Shows, Inc., a new non-profit corporation
set up for this specific purpose, has been assigned
the responsibility of furnishing theatrical enter-
tainment to camps and naval stations. One half of
the Board of Directors was chosen from the Joint
Army and Navy Committee.
The United Service Organiza-
tions will be represented on the
Board. The initial funds,
$1,300,000.00, will be furnished
by the U.S.O. The Army will

’ charge an admission of 25¢
per person in large camps and
15¢ in smaller camps; eighty

Many agencies are playing
a part in the program of
defense recreation. 'What
are these agencies, and
how are they Functioning?

During the discussion at the Defense
Recreation Conference at the National
Recreation Congress in Baltimore. the
request was made from the floor that
the National Recreation Association
prepare a brief statement showing the
part played by various agencies in
the defense recreation program. This
statement is the answer to the request.

per cent of the proceeds will be
retained by the camps, and
twenty per cent will be returned

to Camp Shows, Inc.
The National Theater Con-

ference will continue to furnish
dramatic coaches to camps.

Outside the Camps and Naval Stations

Responsibility for furnishing hospitality and
recreation to men in uniform when on leave from
camp rests primarily with the local communities
directly concerned. Communities have been urged
to organize a defense recreation committee includ-
ing representatives of the Army and Navy from
near—by camps, and relate it to the local defense
council. This'committee in each community is the

 official responsible body through WhiCh all agen—

cies are asked to work. The President has desig-
nated Federal Security Administrator Paul V.

'McNutt as the coordinator, and Charles P. Taft

as the assistant coordinator, of all recreation ac-
tivity relating to the defense program. To carry
out the President’s coordinating program, a divi-
sion of recreation has been set up in the Federal
Security Agency, with Mark McCloskey as Di—
rector; a field staff is available to serve these local
community-wide committees.

In all cities and communities where existing re-
sources are adequate, communities should plan,
finance, and carry through their own programs of
recreation and hospitality, using both’piublic and
private agencies.

To supplement existing resources, the federal
government has appropriated funds for erecting
and equipping community clubs for soldiers and
sailors. The type of building and its location are
to be determined jointly by the local community
committee and approved by the local commanding
officer and the Federal Secur-
ity Agency. The buildings are
being constructed, with a few
exceptions, by the Army. The
local community, if desired and
able, will be given responsi-
bility for running these clubs.

The United Service Organi-

(Continued on page 581)
557

A County Park System Matures

By CAXTON BROWN

HEN THE creation of a M b expenses. Its membership con-
W county park system was . C er: :rC . . sisted of three manufacturers
first urged in Union un'on ounly ar omm'ss'on and one engineer; the fifth ap-

New Jersey

County, New Jersey, in 1921,
the flame of interest was fanned
by acquaintance with the splendid work done in
neighboring Essex County, home of the first county
park commission in the country.

The Essex experiment was replete with inter-
est. When it was conceived, there was no existing
authorizing legislation, and a suitable State Act
became essential. The Park Act of 1895, with its
series of amendments, has never been modified in
any material respect. It has since served as the
guide to existing legislation providing county parks
in twenty-one states. ‘

Among the outstanding provisions'of the Act
are: (a) a county must have a minimum popula-
tion of 200,000; (b) the park work in any countyi
must be non—political and supervised by a commis-
sion composed of five members, serving without
compensation, appointed by the Supreme Court
Justice presiding in the district; (c) lands ac-
quired for park purposes become available to the
public in perpetuity and are not subject to sale or
disposal; (d) the commission is granted the right
of eminent domain except in the case of existing
rights of way or. railroads. Furthermore, the Act
and its amendments cover a series of provisions
for obtaining essential funds, in some cases by
popular approval at a referendum, and in others
by mandatory rights of the commission to requisi-
tion county freeholders to issue and sell bonds
maturing in from fifteen to forty years, depending
upon the type of improvement.

As a result of a movement originated by a
group of Cranford citizens
to preserve the Rahway

pointee could not serve.

When the commission met
for the first time, it was about as well-qualified
technically for the job as if it had been requested
to develop a strategic campaign for submarine
warfare. This particular period was perhaps the
most exacting in our nineteen years of park work,
since it was replete with field inspection and study,
and necessitated meetings once or twice a week in
order to coordinate our findings and satisfy our-
selves that a cOmplete reconnaissance had been
accomplished.

At the end of six months, and at an expendi—
ture of one-fifth of the allocated amount, a report
was rendered. This report was in turn submitted
as a basis far a popular referendum, and as it
recommended that a permanent commission be ap-
pointed to undertake the work, the voters signi—
fied approval at the next election day. The pre-
siding Supreme Court Justice appointed the four
active members of the preliminary commission to
the permanent commission, as well as a former
state senator who had represented a group of ob—
jectors to this movement.

Obviously, the permanent commission had a
different problem. It had to perform, whereas the
preliminary commission had only to recommend.
Hence the earliest consideration of the permanent
commission was, after organizing, to lay down a
definite set of plans and policies. Briefly, it de—
cided that it must build up the best possible operat—
ing staff, assisted by the best consulting service.
The prime function of the Union County Park
Commission would be to
plan, acquire, develop, and

River, which flows through
that town, there was
formed a nucleus for opin-
ion urging a Union County
system of parks. In 1921,
a preliminary commission
was appointed to report
upon the subject. This pre-
liminary commission, to
which I was appointed,
was awarded $10,000 for

558

I'Within the brief span of twenty years. Union
County has developed a park system that has
converted wastelands into community assets
worth far more than the original investment.
It has secured a better life—more adventure-
some and health promoting—for its citizens. It
has served as an attraction to bring better
employment opportunities for its wage earn-
ers. It has made more beautiful the munici-
palities wherein parks were located. and en-
couraged in them the sinking of home roots by
responsible families of the kind who typify
and form the America we dream of building."

maintain the county park
system, and to make this
investment of county funds
yield the greatest returns
in health, happiness,
beauty, usefulness, and gen-
eral public welfare. It had
then to determine from a
wealth of park material to
what extent it would pro-
ceed along orthodox lines

and to what degree it would attempt to carve out
pioneer types of park planning and achievement.

For generations, city fa-
thers have been accustomed
to set aside small areas on
which lawns and shade, and
even benches for Hirtatious
nurseniaids, are provided.
But when the vision of park
work became enlarged, new

opportunities arose for the creators, and new con-

ceptions of layout and
use came into being.

A striking contrast
between the two con—
cepts in park planning
may be found in
France.

Versailles is a repre—
sentative exponent of
formal parking carried
to the zenith of for—
mality. It represents
the thought of a school
of geometric landscap—
ers who possessed a
theory that beauty is
based upon an axis of
magnificent vistas.
They developed a
stereotyped sequence
of views of precise

A COUNTY PARK SYSTEM MATURES

 

These "Before and Af’rer" scenes show how
beau’ry can be creal'ed from ugliness. This
area in Rahway River Park is typical of
o’rher former swampy. refuse-liHered lands
which have been +ransformed inl'o places of
aes+he+ic charm and recrea’rional value.

 

559

limitations and of un—
varying character,
flanked by prescribed
terraces and abund—
antly adorned with ar—
tificial pools, balus—
trades, statues, boxed
plants and stairways.
As a type, Versailles
is a remarkable ac—
complishment, but it
possesses no invitation
beyond a rare visit in
varnished shoes and
formal clothes, affords
no variation, offers no
appeal to fauna or
bird life, and is a per-
petual monument to a
mistaken concept of
beauty.

A few miles distant lies Fontainebleau Forest,
kept as primeval as good forestry will permit,

except perhaps with the
elimination of undergrowth.
It represents a perfectly nat-
ural setting, readily acces-
sible, traversed with wind—
ing narrow paths of which
every turn affords an antici-
pation of hitherto unreveal—

ed beauty, and withal furnishes a habitat for the

.~.4‘-.-f'

Photo by Wendell A. Compton

 

560 A COUNTY PARK SYSTEM MATURES

smaller fauna and innumerable birds. It is an
approach to a recreation space that intrigues,
and that welcomes the adoption of slacks and
strong boots in a spirit of exploration of inac-
cessible locations, in the pursuit of which nature
and its Hora provide incessant change at varying
periods of the year.

While it may be true that city dwellers wel-
come their Washington and Belgrade squares
and small enclosed greens because of immediate
proximity, there can be little doubt that a real
change approaching original nature as closely
as possible gives the stimulation that enriches
body and soul.

When Frederick Olmstead, the father of
American landscaping, started his profession,
he owed the incentive to a series of walking
tours through England, during the course of
which he had abundant opportunity for study-
ing nature, cultivated and uncultivated, and to
observe the charm imparted to scenes by the
proper relation of hill and dale, of planting and
trees in wide variety. He became a master artist
in creating impressions of spaciousness by
means of unobtrusive perspective and alluring
dells and vistas. Above all, he was impressed
by nature’s absence of regularity and its won-
derful adaptation to environment. Endowed
with remarkable taste and voluminous notated
data, he founded an enterprise that is probably
without a peer. His earliest noteworthy work
was the conversion of a rock formation into
Central Park in New York City, and among the
later engagements of his lirm is its consulting work
for the Union County park system from the days
of its early preliminary surveys.

It was with the advice of the Olmstead Brothers
that the Union County Park Commission agreed
to be original insofar as circumstances permitted,
and to carry predominantly in mind the feature of
attracting people to the parks by means of superior
recreation facilities, once parks had been created.

Our twenty parks vary in size and facilities from
Briant’s Pond Park, a tract of about thirty acres
not yet fully developed, to the Watchung Reserva—
tion, which comprises some 2,000 acres stretching
over 4% miles with an average width of 4/5 of a
mile, and which, developed by nature as much as
we would want it, is our best exponent of a truly
natural area.

All in all, the parks occupy 6%% of the county
area. The New Jersey State Planning Board rates
this as 25% in excess of standard park require—

-—-"'""'

  
    
 
   
   

-'~‘---———_

     
     
    

   

 
 
 
 
   
   

km.

   
  

  
  
 

    
    
  
      

 
  

  
 
 

     

  
   

l

1:

I II Illlll

I II IInaI;

I In IIIII.

I II IIIIIIIIII

I II Illnlllllllll

I Illlnllnllllllnll

II IEIIHIIIIIDIIIIMI
InnIIInII IaIInanaIIIIIIaLa
IIaIInIII IIIInIInnIIIIInll
IIIIIIIII Ill-IIEIIIIIIIIME
IIaIIIIII IIIIIaIaIIIIInIma
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIma
nInInInIIIIIIIananIIIIInam
IIIIIIIaIaIIIInmnIIIIIIIIma
IIIIIIIaInIIIInnIIIIIInIamn
IInIIIIIIIIIIInnanIIIIIIamn
IIIIInIIIIIIIIInIIIIIIIIam
IInIIIIIIIInIIInInIIIIIInm
nIIanIIaIIInanIananIIaIImm
IIIIIIIEEEIBIIEEEIIIIIIIIH
InIIInIIIIIIIInnnnIIIIIInn

 

IIIIIIIIIIIll-EnlnllllllnmI
Innaanamannnaaaamunnnanaama

1
I

 
 
  
    

UNION COUNTY PARK COMMlSSlON
NEW JERSEY

MAP OF PARK SYSTEM

A5 ACQUIRED AND PLANNED

me APRILJBH
SCALE m was

  
  
    
 
    
 

   
  
 

  
 

v m: “m Pa ,_  ‘
- 'l

\

 
   
 

GouHALs
BRIDGE

STATEN
ISLAND

L E 3 E ND.
STATE AND COUNTY ROADS
— OTHER ROADS

    
 
    

ISLAND Soon,

 

"" PROPOSED IMPROVED ROADS
—'_' UNION COUNTY BOUNDARY

- AUTHORIZED PROJECT:

PROPOSED PROJECT:
ESSEX COUNTY PARKS

 

      

  

    
 

 

lb 4

   

 

a"! -

   
 
 

  
 

    
     

 
   
   

, III-IIIIIIIII In B a | A m- P A m
III-IIIIIIIIIIIIIE c so A a 6 more
I; IIIII-IIIHIIIIIIIIE
It III-IIIIIIIIIIIIM
 III-IIIIIIIIIIIIIE
It. IIIII-IIIIIIIIIIE-m
I; IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
:cIIIIlIlIIIHIIIIIIlm
tall-lI-IIIIEIIIIIIII
l-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIEE
 RAmer RIVER Puwmr.
It IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-
I: IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-
J IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIEI-
lllllllllllllllllll-
! IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE
I III-IIIIIIIIIEIIII
I III-IIIIIIIIIEIIIIIEI
I III-Illnlullllllm
I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-
!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE
a unannnnnmunmna

 

_

A COUNTY PARK SYSTEM MATURES 561

ments based on the present pepulation, and
designates this as the 'only county in the state
without park acreage deficiency. However, the
foresightedness of the Commission anticipates
the future growth of the county. Many authori-
ties feel that 10% of an area should be publicly
owned. The parks are about 70% developed as
to ultimate plan, and have cost the county tax-
payers $5,500,000 for acquisition and develop-
ment.

The park system has proved to be one of the
best financial investments of Union County’s
taxpayers. Foresight in the early purchases
made it possible .to buy the necessary lands at
low prices before population growth raised land
values. Moreover, much additional land, valued
at about $900,000, has been received through
land gifts by public-spirited citizens, munici-
palities, and organizations. Consequently, the
present park areas are worth many times their
original investment.

Maintenance of the park system amounts to
about $470,000 per annum, of which about
$150,000 comes from fees charged users of
special facilities, and about $320,000 is provided
from the county budget, costing Union County
residents about 1%”?! on every tax dollar ex-
pended. If interest on and amortization of
bonds are included with maintenance, the total
cost represents less than three cents of each
tax dollar paid (exclusive of income tax).

One of the products of the park system has
been a marked increase in the ratables of the
county, thus distributing park expenses over a
larger number of inhabitants and correspondingly
decreasing the cost per capita. In two or three
localities exact evidence has been compiled. For
example, VVarinanco Park in Elizabeth was de-
veloped from farms in an outlying swampy sec—
tion. No sooner had the park been developed than
residences and real estate developments began to
surround it. Statistics carefully derived indicate
that the increase in ratables adjoining the, park
was about fourteen times that of the normal growth
of the city. -

Ga110ping Hill Park, our twenty-seven hole golf
course, is an interesting example of how park
work frequently transforms a public nuisance into
an asset of beauty and utility. When the tract was
acquired, it consisted in the main of a dismal over-
grown swamp surrounded by hills, and the low-
lands were of such character as to be practically
impenetrable. It was a weird, unsightly blemish,

562 .4 COUNTY PARK SYSTEM MATURES

so neglected as to use and occupation that for some
parts no recorded titles existed. In all probability,
the lower parts had served as a catchbasin for
hundreds, if not thousands, of years, and the soil
was a saturated Fibrous mass, the detritus of ages.
N o more unlikely spot for development could have
been found in the eyes of an inexperienced layman.

After acquisition, the first task was to drain the
property and render it more accessible. Deep
ditches were constructed to lower the exiSting
water table an amount of seven feet. After eight-
een months, it was possible to obtain a degree of
dryness that would permit gangs to clear out the
underbrush and impoverished trees, destroying
them to accelerate evaporation.

At this stage, the soil had a resilient charac-
teristic of such unique nature that if one stood at a
particular spot and another person ran or jumped
at a distance of fifty yards, one could feel the whole
area quivering like the vibrations of a spring-
board. Even today the cultivated soil has a pleas-
ant springiness that is very entrancing.

The Galloping Hill golf course is used by a
total of about 50,000 players annually, and is na—
tionally rated one of the best public course layouts.
In winter months, it is easily converted into a
winter sports mecca that often finds a crowd of
17,000 over a week end using the toboggan slides
and sledding and skiing areas set up to take natural
advantage of the hills and the shallow ice-skating

 

rink formed by simply stopping the drains of one
green on the practice fairway. The surrounding
areas have benefited by the park by the infinx of
many beautiful new home developments.

Warinanco Park, on the farm outskirts of Eliza-
beth, once a wet badlands, has 'seen itself sur-
rounded by new homes, has given rise to a new
business district and aided materially, as no other
single influence has, the real estate growth of the
three bordering municipalities—Elizabeth, Roselle
and Linden.

The Union County Park Commission functions
through its executive officer, the Engineer and
Secretary, W. Richmond Tracy. He is assisted
by the advice and work of our legal counsel and
six functioning departments. r

The Financial Department arranges the details
of the annual budget and pays all bills and pay-
rolls. Equipment running into thousands of dif-
ferent items required by the commission is secured
by the Purchasing Department at managed
economies. '

The Engineering Department plans for park
layouts and developments, and recommends land
acquirements. The Construction and Maintenance
Department erects and maintains the various facili-
ties and plantings in the parks.

The operation of the facilities is conducted by
the Recreation Department, which also provides

(Continued on page 586)“

   

Photo by R. Krestan

 

l-low- Basketball Originated

" HERE IS nothing new
I under the sun. All

so-called new things
are simply recombinations
of the factors of things
that are now in exist-
ence.” It was this state—
ment by Dr. Luther Hal—
sey Gulick, Dean of the
Physical Education De—
partment of the Interna—
tional Y.M.C.A. Train—
ing School. (now Spring—
field College), which set
James Naismith on the
way to recombining the
factors of several games
into the game of basket—
ball. The year was 1891,
Fifty years ago.

At Springfield College,
where Naismith was a
young member of the
faculty and a colleague
of Amos Alonzo Stagg,
there was an evident need for some form of physi—
cal exercise for winter indoor use which would
bring pleasure and thrills and not merely physical
benefits. During the winters, in those days, there
was little but gymnastics for those who desired
activity to take the place of football and track and
other intercollegiate sports played in other seasons
of the year.

Dr. Gulick’s statement was made at meeting of

a seminar in psychology where the discussion had
strayed to the need for some game, interesting,

easy to learn, and easy to play in winter by arti-»

{icial light. '

A gymnasium class for
prospective Y.M.C.A. secre—
taries was the immediate
problem which confronted
James Naismith. These men
were not interested, as the
prospective physical directors
Were, in their own physical
development, yet they were
forced to spend an hour a day

This article represents a brief digest
of some of the material appearing in
"Basketball, Its Origin and Development,'I
by James Naismith, published by the As-
sociation Press. New York City. It is of
special interest at iust this time when
the fiftieth anniversary of basketball is
being celebrated and the Naismith
Memorial Committee, at Springfield,
Massachusetts, is conducting a campaign
for a suitable memorial to Dr. Naismith.

 

The first basketball team and their coach, on
the steps of Springfield College gymnasium in
I89I. Dr. Naismith is in civilian clothes.

in a gymnasium class. After several other in—
structors had failed that year to get their interest,
Dr. Gulick assigned Naismith to this class, urging
him at the same time to try inventing a new game,
which Naismith had earlier suggested was possible.

N aismith felt, rightly enough, that this particular
class would have to be approached with some sort
of appeal to play instincts. The only indoor games
of that day were three—deep,
.prisoners’ base, long ball, and
games of that type. These
games could not hold the in—
terest of men for any length
of time. Naismith finally de-
cided to modify some outdoor
sport for indoor use.

He started with football,
and tried to substitute the
English Rugby tackle—tack—

563

564 HOW BASKETBALL ORIGINATED

ling above the hips and stopping, not throwing the
runner. But the class was too much accustomed
to throwing runners, which would not do.

Next came soccer, then known as Association
football. He thought the men with their soft in-
door shoes would use care in kicking the ball. But
when an opening for a score developed—WHAM—
and the class became a practical lesson in first aid
for bruised toes!

Naismith had pinned his hopes on these two
games—and a third,- lacrosse. But lacrosse also
refused to be modified. Too many of the men, like
Naismith, had had experience with this game at
home in Canada and knew too many of the tricks.
No bones were broken but the flying crosses were
hard on the men who were only beginners and

didn’t know how to get out of the way.

Ball and Bat

Naismith was thoroughly disheartened. As he
sat in his study one evening he began to consider
team games philosophically. His first generaliza-
tion was that all team games used a ball, either
a large one or a small one, with some intermediate
equipment to handle the latter—a baseball or
cricket bat, a lacrosse and hockey sticks, or tennis
and squash racquets. These bats, sticks and
racquets increased the difficulties of the game and
a new game must be easy to learn. Then, too, a
small ball was easily hidden. So he decided to use
a large ball—either a sphere or a spheroid.

Then Naismith began to consider the point of
interest in the various games. The most interest—
ing game at that time, he decided, was American
Rugby. Rugby couldn’t be used because of the
tackling. Why was there tackling? Because there
was running with the ball. At that point he began
to wonder about eliminating running with the ball.
He suddenly -felt much elated.

What could the player do with the ball if he
couldn’t run with it? He could throw it or bat it
with his hand. Suppose a player was running and
a teammate threw the ball to him. He must be
permitted a few steps to stop, but running with
the ball was out. .

He was following closely the traditions of the
older games; especially football. In that game pass-
ing could be done in any direction but forward.
In the new game, however, since the player could
not advance with the ball, why shouldnft he be
allowed to pass it or bat it forward with his hand?

He visualized some difficulty in using the list

to advance the ball. There was a chance that that

same list might follow through into someone’s
face. So he decided the list must not be used in
striking the ball.

But there had to be something more to the game
than “keep away.” What about some objective?
In football there are goal lines and goal posts; in
soccer, lacrosse, and hockey, goals into which balls
are driven. Tennis and badminton have lines
within which the ball must be kept.

First he tried, in his mind, a lacrosse goal. But
the harder a ball. is thrown at such a goal the
better the chance of a goal, and that might lead to
roughness. Somehow or other his mind went to
Duck on the Rock. In that game skilled players
arched their shots so that if they missed the “duck”
on the rock they would not have to go so far to

. retrieve their own duck. Skill and accuracy were

more important than strength.

How about a goal which would be in a place
horizontal to the playing floor and into which the
ball would have to be thrown in an arc? Such a
goal would have to be out of reach else the Oppos-
ing team could cover it completely and keep the
ball from ever entering. Therefore he determined
to put the goal above the players’ heads.

Here was a team game with equipment and an
objective. How to start the game? In water polo
teams line up at either end of the pool and scram-
ble to the middle of the pool when the ball is
thrown in. Naismith winced to think of men rush-
ing to the center of the floor for a ball, and he
decided to adapt the English Rugby out of bounds '
play and throw up the ball between representatives
of each team. He realized he had not solved all
the problems that were certain to arise, but he felt
that somehow he could answer them when they
did arise.

Next morning Naismith decided on a soccer ball
instead of a football. A football was more easily
carried but carrying the ball was not part of this
new game. Walking down the hall he met the
superintendent of the building. Naismith asked for
two boxes eighteen inches square. The superin-
tendent hadn’t anything like that, but he did offer
two peach baskets which were forthwith tacked to
the lower rail of the balcony at either end of
the gym.

Then Naismith jotted down a list of thirteen
rules:

I. The ball, to be an ordinary Association foot-

ball, may be thrown in any direction with
one or both hands.

(Continued on page 584)

 

Time Merchants

EOPLE ARE ALWAYS trying to
P save time. We tried it, too,
but for some reason or other,

we never had enough to go
around. After considering various plans for ac-
quiring an additional allotment of minutes, we
decided to buy some, not on margin, but outright.
Payment in full amounted to ideas, not a singu-
lar medium of exchange in time deals, due in

weekly installments in the form of radio material._

‘For this material, our dealer, WKAR,- 5,000 watt
station of Michigan State College, East Lansing,
offered Annie L. Becker, State Supervisor for
WPA Recreation, fifteen minutes on a state-wide
basis, for WKAR’S listening range covers the
entire state including the Upper Peninsula.

A practical business arrangement it was. The
nature of our purchase allows us in turn to sell
something else: recreation. So we closed the time
deal, put Michigan WPA Recreation on the air,
and found ourselves richer in mail as well as in
time. By April 5, 1941, our first anniversary of
broadcasting, we’ll be richer by 750 minutes.

Even though our radio currency is minted by
only a one-woman staff, we don’t find it difficult
to make our payments on schedule; the work our
time barter entails certainly doesn’t overshadow
the returns. With the aid of current contributions
from the field staff and recreational material, as
craft and game books and bulletins adaptable to
radio presentation, we are able to‘ go on the air
“just for fun” every Monday morning at eleven
o’clock.

The first factor we had to consider as we broke
into broadcasting was the assimilation of our re-
spective policies, that of WKAR, a non-commer-
cial station, and that of WPA recreation: leisure-
time activities for everyone. The promotional ap-
proach was obviously the wrong approach. So
instead of “blurbs,” “spots,” or news Hashes, we
present “fun flashes”—an-
nouncements concerning spe-
cial events for the current
month and where and how
the listener may participate in
them free of charge. State-
wide appeal is attained by
“spotting” events in as many

By LOUISA HUESTON
Work Projects Administration
Michigan

The article entitled "Radio in the Local
Recreation Program." which was pub-
lished in the February I938 issue of Rec-
reation suggested this article telling of
the.eftective use of the radio in the WPA
recreation program in Michigan. We
shall be glad to know of the experiences
of other groups in using this medium.

as twelve scattered counties in
one broadcast. These “flashes”
are bridged with appropriate
minute musical interludes. We
endeavor to schedule a program of this type for
the first Monday of every month.

'During the other weekly broadcasts of each
month, instead of giving ourselves air-wave pats
on the back, we give away ideas that can be con—
verted into leisure—time fun, merely identifying
those suggestions with our agency during the
opening and closing announcement. “Funiculi,
Funicula,” our theme, introduces and closes each
program. We, too, think the world, or at least
part of it “is made for fun and frolic.”

The scripts prepared in the state office are for-
warded each. week to the four district offices

’ where they are presented with a local angle over

several other Michigan stations.

Our most successful programs dealt with art
and craft activities, special. events, and lawn party,
beach, summer cottage and indoor games. On the
game programs our cast played the games rather
than merely describing them. We labeled those
programs successful because, following each one,
we received a number of unsolicited requests for _
additional information on the aired activity. We
began to speculate on solicited requests. How
many would arrive in the “Mail—Incoming”
basket? .

Having no free material available for distribu-
tion to interested listeners, we prepared some at
relatively no cost; two small illustrated mimeo-
graphed pamphlets, one a bibliography of party
game books, the other on homemade Hallowe’en
noisemakers. The bibliography was offered during
and after two “party preview” programs; “Home-
made Hallowe’en Noisemakers” after a program
on homemade Hallowe’en noisemakers and after
one on suggestions for Hallowe’en party decora-
tions and games.

The mails came. Most of
the requests were sent by
women, which is not surpris-
ing considering the program
time: eleven-in the morning.
Requests for “Homemade

(Continued on page 582)
565

Skate, But Skate Safely

vigorating of winter

sports—may, by the same
token, become the most dan-
gerous. The difference be—
tween a happy skating party
and a disastrous expedition
lies in a few simple regulations
governing the most popular of
cold weather recreation activities.

Alarmed over the annual toll of deaths by drown-
ing through ice, the WPA Recreation Division in
Scranton, Pennsylvania, with the cooperation of
the Scranton Chapter, American Red Cross, did
something about the situation. A two months’ edu-
cational campaign in the city and county rural
schools brought forth most gratifying results.

The W’PA Recreation Division assigned a
leader who had completed a course at a National
Aquatic School to handle the project. The Red
Cross Chapter arranged with the county school
authorities for- a schedule which took the recreation
leader into every community where ice skating
was enjoyed on outdoor ponds and lakes. Mimeo—
graphed ice safety literature was distributed, fol—
lowing a lecture and a practical demonstration,
where possible. At many of the schools, this
demonstration took place on ponds within a hun—
dred yards of the schoolhouse.

School children were told where to skate, under
what conditions, and at what time during the
winter. They were shown the methods for self-
rescue after going through the ice as well as the
means of rescuing fellow skaters. School princi—
pals cooperated in equipping their schools with ice
accident rescue devices, and volunteer groups
promised to place such equipment at near-by skat-
ing zones and to acquaint all skaters with the
proper methods of using this material. First aid in
the treatment of ice accident victims was also

ICE SKATING—most in—

Skating's grand fun—but avoid
thin ice, and be sure you know
what to do in case of accidents!

By JACK P. HOULIHAN
WPA Recreation Supervisor
Scranton. Pennsylvania

tively brought home the
message. To the great satis—
faction of all concerned a
marked decrease in fatal ice
accidents has been noted in
the region since the cam—
paign for safer skating. The

Scranton slogan has been “Skate,
But Skate Safely.”

Skating Safety Information

The following information in mimeographed
form is distributed by the Scranton leaders to all
of the school children visited:

Where to Skate. Small bodies of water such as
pools, ponds, and flooded hollows usually freeze
quickest and form the smoothest ice. They are
therefore the safest places for skating.

Small swift streams and large swift rivers are
unsafe.

Safe Conditions for Skating. Young ice formed
during the first freeze of winter may be extremely
tough and elastic. It may crack in all directions
under a skater’s weight yet not give way. It is not
safe for skating, however, until it is at least two
inches thick and then skaters must not congregate
in groups but spread out and distribute their
weight. When young ice is four inches thick it is
safe.

Firm ice is ice which is solid through a long
freeze and is safest of all. Only at night is there
real danger when a skater may glide into an open
area left by cutters.

Rotten ice is the ice that comes as winter ends
and spring advances. Warm winds and a hot sun
batter away at the structure of the ice, loosening its
crystals and honeycombing its surface until it
shatters and dissolves in the water beneath. Two

 

feet of what'looks like firm ice may be so saturated
with water that the lightest pressure may cause it
to crumble and vanish in a few seconds.

Methods of Self-Rescue. There
are two rules of conduct for
skaters breaking through the
ice:
(I) Do not try to climb out
immediately.

(2) Kick the feet to the rear

demonstrated.

Community support in the Scranton project was
splendid. Both the newspapers
and radio stations presented
special features on the ice
safety, and public attention was
focused on the need for safe-
guarding public skating ponds.
Editorials and cartoons effec-

566

These-rules for ice safety. and the
information given on methods of res-
cue in case of accident have been
condensed. according to the author.

from literature published by the Ameri-
can Red Cross. Washington. D. C.

SKATE, BUT SKATE SAFELY 567

to avoid jackknifing the body beneath the rim of

the ice to which you are clinging. A mad scramble
to get out will result only in breaking more ice.
Instead kick to a level position, extend the hands
and arms forward on the ice, and work your way
to firm ice. If it breaks again, don’t give up.
Skaters in motion don’t plunge downward; they
are sent sprawling after being tripped. Instead of
trying to get to their feet, thus concentrating their
'weight on the spot, they should hug the ice to
which they have fallen and roll or squirm to shore.
Rescue Equipment. A light ladder and a line are
essential. To the lowest rung of the latter a strong
but light line is attached. The ladder is laid flat
upon the ice and shoved to the person in danger.

.If the ice is weak for a greater distance than the -

ladder reaches, the line may be used as an exten—
sion and the ladder shoved the limit. Rungs offer
fine grips for the victim to hang on, or if his hands
are too numb a rescuer may crawl out on the
ladder to him. Even if the ice breaks beneath the
double weight, those on shore may draw them to
safety.

A ring buoy with line can easily be thrown to
the person in danger who, if unable to hold on,
may put the line under his armpits. This enables
the rescuers to tow him in.

A looped line on the end of a pole may be
dropped over the head and
shoulders of the victim if
he is unable to hold with .. 
his hands while being
drawn from the ice.

A boat sled is used on
sea ice, large rivers and
lakes to enable rescuers to
break floes. Equipment con-
sists of oars, paddles, pikes,
poles, and ice creepers.

There are two extem-
porized devices which a
skater should always carry
—a stout clasp knife in the
pocket, which when driven
into the ice at arm’s length
will aid in drawing the vic-
tim out of the ice, and a
40 to 50 foot length of
stout line which can be
used to aid another skater
in case of accident. This
line can be carried'in the
pocket or rolled around

the end of a hockey stick for convenient carrying.

The Human Chain. This is a means of rescue
when regular equipment is not at hand. The chain
is formed by four or five strong individuals who
approach the victim as closely as possible with
safety. One after another in single file then drops
down on the ice and worms his way outward to the
victim. The first man has both arms free, but each
succeeding man in the chain grasps the skate of the
one in front of him. When the first man is within
arm’s reach, he seizes the outstretched arms of the
victim by the wrists. Then slowly and cautiously
the entire line begins to wriggle back to safety,
drawing the victim after them. If the ice breaks
under the weight of the lead-off man in the chain,
he can be held and drawn back to safety by the others.

Plank or Board Rescue. This is a one man rescue
in which the rescuer lies on one plank, pushes an—
other ahead, then crawls to the second plank, and
pushes the first one ahead until he reaches the
victim. Rescuer and victim then make the return
trip to firm ice in the same way, the purpose being
to distribute their weight evenly over the cracking
ice by placing the weight on the plank.

(Continued on page .584)

Al" ’rhe Madison Square Boys' Club. New
York Ci’ry. ’rhey have solved ’rhe prob-
lem of safe’ry by skal‘ing on ’rhe roof!

o.’

. “ sun"

 

Delegates at Play

’1 MERICANS ALL” was the
A theme of the Monday eve-

ning play party at the
Baltimore Recreation Congress,
when over six hundred people
gathered in teams for get-ac-

quainted games and contests.
The teams were organized on a
home town basis. New England people formed
the team from the North; those from New York,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware became
the Atlantic team; Washington, D. C., Maryland
and West Virginia competed for the Eastern team;
everyone from the south of the Potomac and the
Ohio and east of the Mississippi River, of course,
were members of the Southern team, and those
north of the Ohio and east of the Mississippi formed
the Midwestern team. All the rest from west of
the Mississippi and outside of the forty—eight
states did their best to help the West team win.

Get—acquainted games and ice breakers formed
the first part of the program. Then contests in
guessing charades, in mental alertness and in
salesmanship were conducted with teams winning
points for the final award of chocolate candy to
the winner.

“Honey You Can’t Love One,” a musical mixer
from the Tennessee Mountains, helped us organize
teams of eight for the square dances—“Red River
Valley,” “Buffalo Girl,” the quiet game, “Pie
Quiz,” the lively square dance, “The Old Apple
Tree in the Orchard,” and the final “Good Night,
Ladies.” All credit goes to the members of the
local committee under Ruth Garber Ehlers for
their very efficient leadership of the teams, to the
attractively costumed American square dance
demonstration set and to the local WPA orchestra
which added so much with its lively music.

Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday afternoons were en-
joyed by many in coopera-
tive folk dance sessions. Folk
dances of Scotland, Lithuania
and other countries were
featured along with a large
number of excellent Ameri-
can square dances and play
party games taught by many

568

By ETHEL BOWERS
National Recreation Association

Proving that it is possible
to attend a conference and
still have a very good time!

The social activities and folk dances
used at the Monday night play party and
at the dance sessions of the Baltimore
Recreation Congress are described in a
bulletin entitled "Games and Dances—
Baltimore Recreation Congress." which is
obtainable from the National Recreation
Association at ten cents each. C0pies
of the Congress Proceedings may be
secured from the Association at $l.00.

Congress members, especially
Lawrence Loy and Barbara
Shipps. These activity sessions
are enjoyed not only for the fun
and for physical activity which
comes as a welcome relief after
hours of sitting at meetings, but
also for the new material which
the Congress members can carry back home and
the different methods used by the volunteer lead-
ers. We were fortunate in having the WPA or-
chestra again for Tuesday afternoon and the splen-
did playing of 'one of the Congress members from
Florida, Miss Ann Livingston, for the other

sessions.

Miss Elizabeth Burchenal had charge of one
entire session Tuesday evening and gave Ameri-
can folk dancing for laymen, which hundreds en—
joyed. These included “Soldiers’ Joy,” “Old One
From Laucka,”
Cavalier.”

In spite of the fact that the square dancers had
practically monopolized the ballroom every free
minute and had suffered through the hottest days
and evenings on record, they would not be satisfied

until a Thursday night square dance party was
arranged. Even though this did not start until -

nearly midnight, an ardent group of about eighty
people carried on, unexhausted, until the wee

small hours to Ann Livingston’s toe-tickling music. i

“Portland Fancy,” and “Spanish

Before they left for their home towns Friday mom—
ing they were already planning for bigger and
better folk dance activities for the next Congress. I

The most gratifying aspect of this spontaneous
enthusiasm in folk and square dancing is willing
participation of the men attending the Recreation
Congress, many of whom had never participated

in these activities either for their own enjoyment
O
or as leaders. More and more

workers and executives are .
realizing that these folk and
square dances are real per—-
sonal fun and real re-creation
and that they are suitable ac-
tivities for adult groups and
probably the most satisfying
all year round activity for

(Continued on page 586)

 

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap’n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

S PEN WEEK was designated for early Octo-
her by proclamation of New Mexico’s Gover-

nor John E. Miles. Motorcades to forest lands to
enjoy fall colorings and to acquaint the public with
conservation.

Auto Tours. “Amoco Guide Books.” 122 East
42nd Street, New York City. 10 cents each or

three,for 25 cents. Use stamps. Pocket-size guides.
-’on history and interesting features with road maps.

Born Naturalist. Warren Slocombe was a WPA
laborer digging in a trench a year ago. A butter-
fly went by. For the moment he forgot his hard-
boiled boss and gave chase. Today he is a natural-
ist for the Municipal Recreation Commission of

Cincinnati.
Conservation. “Conserving Farm Lands,” Dale

' and Ross. Bulletin 201, Vocational Division, Of-

{ice of Education, Federal Security Agency. 1940.
104 pp. Secure from Superintendent of Docu-
ments, Washington, D. C. 30 cents. Procedure for
specific farm. A guide for any area.

“Conservation Films in Elementary Schools,”
Bulletin No. 4, U. S. OHice of Education, Federal
Security Agency. 1941. 38 pp. 10 cents. Practical
for objectives of recreation programs. Wildlife
and game laws, bird citizens, save the elk, the
beaver, unburned woodlands, gardening, muddy
waters and the story of coal as discussed with ap-
proprlate suggestions.

Deer. “Michigan’s Deer Herd.” 4-H Club Bul-
letin 40, Michigan State College, East Lansing. A
winter deeryard study for 4-H club members.
Suggestions on how to study
the wintering area of deer.

“Fall Color Guide for
California,” published by the
California State Chamber of
Commerce’s Travel and Rec-
reation Committee, 350 Bush
Street, San -Francisco.
Eleven-page circular lists 10-
cations, types and kinds of
trees in forty-live counties
in the form of suggested
towns. Copies free.

TO NATURE-GRAMMERS!

Many things have changed since you were a
lad. Many things are changing under your
nose. The outdoor spirit does not change.
However' there are new ideas. By eternal
vigilance. by nature-grams. you can expand
your frontier. Nature-grams form an arbi-
ter column of new things nature-wise. I
wish I knew how many grams have sprouted
and borne fruit in your recreation program.
Nature-gram seeds have been broadcast for
a year and a half. Can we check the crop?

“Forest Recreation.” United States Forest Ser-

vice, Washington, D. C. 54 pp. Guide to all rec-
reation areas in national forests.

Glass Flowers at Harvard’s Peabody Museum
are sometimes referred to as the eighth wonder of
the world. Started by Leopold Blaschka in the
80’s, the art will die with his now elderly son
Rudolph. A quarter of a million "people see the
glass flowers annually.

n'Gourds, Useful and Ornamental,” W. R. Beat-
tie. Farmers’ Bulletin 1849, October 1940. 14 pp.
Varieties, growing, preparation, and uses.

Hawking. Falconry is an increasingly popular
sport. Watching hawk flights is also affording long
hours of enjoyment for amateurs. Mt. Tom Reser-
vation, near Holyoke, Massachusetts, is one of
these sporting areas. The Massachusetts Audubon
Society sponsored a trip there in October to wit-
ness a fall flight. On September 20th, the “big
day” in 1940, observers recorded 482 hawks in ten
minutes and a day’s total of 1,320. .

Hikes for Winter. (1) Cocoon hunting—keep
in moist, cool place as in a box on window ledge.
Bring inside in the spring to see the moths emerge.
(2) Plaster footprint casts—use atomizer to spray
snow prints with water. When frozen pour in
plaster of Paris and allow to harden. (3) Collect
evergreen sprays for identification or other games.
(4) Set up bird shelters and filling stations.

H iking. “A-Hiking We Will Go,” Jack Van
Coevering.  B. Lippincott, New York. 215 pp.
$2.50. New horizons opened through a newspaper
columnist’s stories on wild-
life.

Indian M useum. A new
museum of the Plains In-
dians has opened at Brown-
ing, Montana, in the agency
settlement of the Blackfeet
Reservation.

Landscape. Henry V.
Hubbard, professor emeritus
of regional planning at Har-
vard University: “A design
in wood is one thing, in the

569

Cap’n Bill

570 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

materials of forests, hills and streams another.
Plenty of bad park design comes from an arrange—
ment which might not have been bad in a parlor
rug. We think of the landscape as essentially a
“work of nature.” Statues, paintings, houses, and
cities are man-made and they look so. The land-
scape designer is a loving conservator, rather than
a self-expressing creator. The essential tire of light-
ing enthusiasm for natural beauty is the hardest
thing in the world to transmit in the classroom.”

Milk. Colored poster of mother and child,
18 x 25. Evaporated Milk Association, 307 North
Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. Free.

“Miracles, How . . . Abound,” Bertha Stevens.
John Day Company, New York, 1941. 200 pp.
$2.50. Ways of arousing appreciation of the order-
liness of nature. A star, magnet, salt crystal, dew-
drop, a bean, petunia, tree, snail shell, goldfish,
and the human hand are used to illustrate nature’s
laws.

Model Makers Show for Boys, Boston, Chil-
dren’s Museum, 60 Burroughs Street, Jamaica
Plains. The show was held November 22nd, 1941,
and classes were conducted for model builders of
airplanes, trains, boats, and miscellaneous projects.
Judged on originality as well as craftsmanship.
Plans for sale at one cent each.

M nseitin, W'ashington Field, is a five-room cen-
ter for amateurs in science at Washington, North
Carolina. The program is planned and iinanced
by young pe0ple.

“Nature Is Stranger Than Fiction,” John Y.
Beaty.  B. Lippincott, New York. 286 pp. $2.50.
Short descriptions.

Park Appreciation. September marked the be-
ginning of the eighth year in which the Pittsburgh
Bureau of Parks and Board of Public Education
have collaborated in a program of Nature Educa-
tion and Park Appreciation. Three full-time park
naturalists are prepared to lead trips, to show col-
ored films, or to make a visit to the living materials
in their excellent trailside museums a pleasure and
profit. Star lore meetings, fall bird walks, and an
adult lecture series are also proving popular.
Ralph Griswold, director of the Bureau of Parks,
deserves great credit.

Park Commission, Essex County, New Jersey.
The ranger naturalists borrowed a station wagon
from the Maintenance Department and specimens
from the Newark Museum for their 1941 program.
They visited the seventeen playgrounds and four

day camps in the county. Twenty-one trips have
served approximately a thousand hikers. The 1937
institute of the National Recreation Association
inspired Recreation Director L. C. Wilsey to start
this nature program which has had a healthy

growth.

“Potlatcli” in Seattle last summer was a period
of feasting, dancing, and games of skill according
to a good old Indian custom of Puget Sound. The
Paciiic states joined in the celebration and the
theme was “\Vings over the West.”

Redwoods or Sequoias. Fossils indicate forty-
live species. Two living species—the “Big Tree”
and the, “Coast Redwood”—exist as the “oldest
living things.” Even though many of these pri-
meval trees have been rescued the work is far from
finished. Every encouragement should go to the
Save-the-Redwoods League, 219 California Hall,
University of California, Berkeley.

“Science Experiences with Ten-Cent Store
Equipment,” Carleton  Lynde. International
Text Book Company, Scranton, Pennsylvania. 256
pp. $1.60. A companion fun-book to “Science
Experiences with Home Equipment.”

Tree “Aristocrats.” A national hunt for the
largest American trees. Report location, owner-
ship, spread, height, and circumference 4.5 feet
above the ground to American Forestry Associa-
tion, 919 17th Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.
This game would also be lots of fun in your own
community, county or state. The results would
make a dandy Arbor Day booklet. Photographs
are desirable.

Trees. “Shade Trees for Street and Lawn,” by
Laurie D. Cox. State College of Forestry, Syra—
cuse, New York. A twenty page non-technical
discussion with practical details.

Vocational Guidance. Science Research Asso-
ciates, I 700 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, was founded
by Robert K. Burns, an Eagle Scout from Mon-
tana, and Lyle M. Spencer, First Class Scout,
Seattle, Washington. Sixty-live researchers are
helping these “job hunters.” They till a monthly
magazine, Vocational Trends, a monthly Mono-
graph on one field of employment, and a monthly
Vocational G wide on current literature. “Look for
a job at least five years before you need it” is
their warning.

“Wisconsin,” Playground of the Middlewest.
American Guide Series. Duell, Sloan, and Pearce,
(Continued on page 578)

Recreation at: Mitchel Field

ITCHEL FIELD, an army
M air base located near
the town of Hemp-
stead, Long Island, has been
in existence for the past
twenty-five years. In that
period new buildings have
been added until at the pres—
ent time there are many
structures scattered through-
out the field’s attractively
landscaped area. There are
also quarters for a number
of commissioned and non-
commissioned officers. Many
wooden barriers have been
built recently to take care of increased personnel
which at present consists of approximately 6,000
enlisted men and 400 officers.

As a result of this great increase in personnel,
the Field has found itself faced with the problem
of furnishing the men with desirable recreation.
These recreation activities emanate primarily from
one central source, a main center that initiates,
supervises and coordinates the program in addition
to furnishing the essential materials involved in
carrying out the activities.

This main center is called the Athletic and Rec-
reation Office or, as it is known by the men, the
“A and R” Office. The center is headed by a well-
qualified commissioned officer assisted by men ex—
perienced in the skills necessary for the successful
development of a well-rounded program.

Facilities

The gymnasium, which houses most of the in-
door facilities and is the center of activities the
greater part of the year, is a well-constructed brick
building trimmed with white woodwork and with
tall supporting white columns at its entrance,
reminiscent of a mansion in the old south. The
visitor enters a well-lighted gymnasium, the main
part of which consists of the basketball court. On
one side is an equipment room in which is stored
an adequate supply of bats and balls, tennis, bad—
minton and squash rackets, volleyballs, basketballs,
boxing gloves, ping-pong equipment, archery
tackle and other equipment. The gymnasium

By PRIVATE MURRAY STROMFELD
403 Signal Aviation Corps
Mitchel Field

For a number of months Recreation has
published articles telling of some of the
recreation activities which are being con-
ducted for men in uniform in the communi-
ties near the camps. And now a private at
Mitchel Field.’ Long Island. takes us on a
personally conducted tour of the Post.
pointing out the recreation facilities avail-
able inside the Field. and the activities which

may be enjoyed by the average enlisted
man. Private Stromteld's article describes
the situation as it existed last summer.

is also supplied with wres-
tling mats, parallel bars,
weights and hanging rings.

At the far end of the gym-
nasium is the stage with its
long hanging drapes, which
is used for most of the
shows, entertainments, and
exhibitions held from time
to time. It is here too that
the gay Saturday night
dances are held.

At the rear of the build-
ing are two four-wall com-
bination squash and hand-
ball courts. Adjacent are
the locker and shower rooms. On the second floor
there is apparatus for boxing including punching
bags, training bags and wall exercisers. Two ping-
pong tables are available whenever the gymnasium
is open. A large room on this floor is available
for band practice and glee club work.

Situated directly at one side of the gymnasium
is the enlisted men’s swimming pool which, during
the ,summer, is one, of the Field’s most popular
sports. This pool, kept immaculate at all times, is
tested daily. It is manned by lifeguards who have

proved their ability to the satisfaction of the A
and R Office.

In another part of the Field the visitor will find
the parade grounds on which is located a well-
constructed baseball diamond, complete with
bleachers for the use of spectators. It is on this
diamond that all games with outside teams are
played.

In another corner of the Field six additional
ball diamonds are available for intramural hard
and softball tournaments. Men interested in golf
may use the parade grounds for practice.

The Post Theater is located a short distance
from the parade grounds. Ticket books good for
an indefinite period may be purchased from the
United States Government Theater Service at a
cost of $1.40 for a book of ten tickets. Also
located near the,parade grounds is the enlisted
men’s club, a popular rendezvous for a large num—
ber of the men. Here the soldiers relax by listen-
ing to the radio, playing chess and checkers, and

571

572 RECREATION AT MITCHEL FIELD

reading the daily papers and magazines. The club-
house, well furnished with many comfortable
chairs, is decorated simply and effectively. These
decorations, together with the soft lighting used,
help create a very pleasant atmosphere in which
to receive visitors. Refreshments may be pur—
chased throughout the afternoon and evening.

The clubhouse contains a library stocked with
thousands of books to which additions are con-
stantly being made through the contributions of
civilians. The library, open for the use of enlisted
men throughout the greater part of the day, is
staffed by expert librarians.

In addition to these facilities, each organization
has a recreation room commonly called “day room”
by the men. Here they receive their mail and read
official bulletins. After duty hours it also serves
as a recreation center in that it contains ping-pong
tables, radio, newspapers, magazines, refreshments
and other facilities for the enjoyment of the soldier.
Many day rooms receive contributions of furniture
and other equipment from outside organizations
and it is not uncommon to find many homelike day
rooms with Venetian blinds, cozy chairs and all
the comforts of home. Each company usually sets
aside certain funds for the purchase of athletic
equipment, and an officer is generally appointed to
coordinate the company’s athletic program with
that carried out by the A and R Office.

The tennis courts on the field are kept in excel-
lent condition at all times. - At specified periods
they are set aside for the enlisted men and are in
use at every available opportunity, providing a
most wholesome and enjoyable form of recreation.

Activities

The actual program of activities for a typical
week is shown in the following program for the
week of July 14-20, 1941: .
July 14. Tennis Class; Fencing Class; Post Basketball

Team vs. Paradise Club; Post Softball Team vs.

Huntington All-Stars; Softball Inter-Organization.
July 15. Tennis Class; Open Air WPA Symphony Con-

cert; Inter-Organization League Play-off in Baseball
and Softball.

July 16. Dancing Class; Post Baseball Team vs. Fort
Totten.

July 17. Tennis and Fencing Classes; Post Softball
Team vs. Bellmore Sigmas; Post Baseball Team vs.
Mt. Vernon All-Stars; Softball Inter-Organization
League.

July 18. Archery and Swimming Classes; Post Baseball
Team vs. Camp Upton; Finals of- Inter-Organization
Baseball; League Play-offs.

July 19. Post Baseball Team vs. Department of Welfare.

July 20. Post Baseball Team vs. Carle Place.

_Aside from activities on the Post there are many
opportunities for the men to take part in social
affairs off the Post. The Base Morale Office ar-
ranges for these in much the same way the A and
R Office provides for recreation on the Post.
Although the two programs overlap at times, they
are coordinated in such a way that the men derive
the most pleasure possible from the opportunities
offered them.

The following schedule lists summer activities as
they were offered by the Base Morale Office:

Tennis. The St. Paul’s School in Garden City is
offering its five tennis courts and a baseball dia-
mond for the use of officers and enlisted men.
Courts are available at any time.

Golf. Six private golf clubs are extending free
playing privileges to both officers and enlisted men
on certain days. There are no green fees charged
and caddies need not be taken.

Picnics and Outings. The private estate of Henry
P. Davison of Locust Valley is available for or-
ganizations for picnic or general group outings.
The men will have at their disposal tennis and bas-
ketball courts, rowboats and the use of their private
beach. Organizations will take advantage of this

special offer.

Ocean Bathing. Bathing parties will be dis-
patched from the gymnasium to Long Beach,
where free bathhouse facilities are available for
soldiers each Wednesday, Saturday, Sunday and
holiday afternoon. Soldiers desiring to go on
these swimming parties must sign up at the Morale
Office in the gymnasium twenty-four hours before
going. Transportation will be provided for the
men registering.

Social Nights. St. Mary’s Council, Knights of
Columbus, at Lynbrook, cordially invites service
men to their clubrooms on Monday and Wednes-
day nights for a variety of social games. Refresh-
ments will be served.

Weekly Dance. The Women’s Club of Great
Neck gives a dance for Mitchel Field service men
every Saturday night during July and August.
They furnish all the partners and refreshments.

Talent Call for Musical Comedy. Singers, actors,
dancers, musicians, scenic artists and stage man-
agers are needed for “Keep ’Em Flying,” a musi-
cal comedy to feature Mitchel Field enlisted men,
sponsored by the Nassau County Y.M.C.A. and
presented at a Nassau Theater. All interested men
will please sign up.

Each season brings something new. There

 

RECREATION AT MITCHEL FIELD 573

are dances, parties, fishing trips, excursions, pic-
nics, ,block parties and the other affairs enjoyable
both to the men participating and to the private
individuals who sponsor these activities.

Leadership

In order to insure a successful program, well-
qualified leaders are utilized whenever necessary.
The Recreation Office draws a number of men
from the VVPA. The staff is further increased by
i the inclusion of enlisted men who have had previ-
ous experience in recreation.

Among the various activities in which instruc—
tion is offered are dancing, fencing, golf, boxing,
badminton, swimming, tumbling, wrestling, arch—
ery and tennis. Most of the men avail themselves
of at least some part of this comprehensive pro-
gram, since the hours of instruction are arranged
so that they may participate.

It is evident that the Recreation Office seeks to
secure competent assistants. When lifeguards were
needed to staff the swimming pool, men interested
in the positions available were taken each night to
Adelphi College in near-by Garden City, where
they were trained and tested by Red Cross in-

structors. When the softball and baseball season '

was about to begin, the men selected to ofliciate
were given a course of instruction before the tour-
naments were under way.

What They Like Best

According to statistics gathered by the Athletic

and Recreation Office, the prefer-

ences of the service men for the

various activities at the present
time are as follows:

1. Swimming 8. Baseball

2. Dancing 9. Wrestling

3. Softball 10. Archery

4. Handball 11. Badminton
5. Tennis 12. Squash "
6. Golf 13. Fencing

7. Boxing 14. Dancing

(Instruction)
Swimming, as may well be

imagined, reigns supreme during
the summer months. The pool is
open for the greater part of the
day and instruction is offered at
designated hours. Many of the
children of the non-commissioned
officers join in the fun, and a
visitor would have difficulty in

differentiating between our pool
and one off the Post.

The Saturday night dances always draw large
crowds. To prevent overcrowding, cards of dif-
ferent colors are distributed and men holding red
cards are admitted one week, men with white cards
the following. This makes for greater enjoyment
for all taking part. Young women from local or-
ganizations are invited to attend these dances to
provide partners for the men.

Softball and baseball tournaments are conducted
between July I and September I, the season being
broken up into two parts, one ending August I,
the other September I. A tr0phy is awarded the
winning team at the end of each month. In addi-
tion to the intramural team there are also Post
softball and baseball teams which have their own
schedules and which play many outside teams both
on and off the field. The softball games are often
played at Jones Beach, where there are always
crowds of softball fans.

Tennis is also enthusiastically played by a great
number of menl Instruction is given at different
times during the week by a tennis expert of long
experience. Singles and doubles tournaments are
also conducted. The Post tennis team composed
of both officers and enlisted men plays at such
places as the Westside Tennis Club, at Forest Hills
and at the Nassau Country Club.

In these and many other ways the men at Mitchel
Field have the opportunity to relax and enjoy a
good time and are given the social contacts and re-
lationships which are part of normal living.

 

Off-dot Photograph, and Air Base Squadron, Photo Section .

Training tor Recreation Service

SURVEY of the literature hav-
A ing to do with leadership
training shows several ten-
dencies developing in the last few
years. Most outstanding "is an
emphasis on selection, guidance, and better en-
vironmental conditions while students are in train-
ing. In addition to this the following appears often :

I. Testing of intelligence, emotional stability and
basic attitudes before admittance. Filed with
records.

2. Attempt to correct both the personality and
physical defects of the student while in service.

3. The consideration of the possibilities of each
individual and a flexible program to foster
the development of these potentialities.

4. A comprehensive examination before gradu-
ation to test the adequacy of skill, knowledge
and attitudes of the individual.

5. The use of comprehensive folders to keep
data, term papers, and the instructors’ com-
ments on each student.

6. In-service apprenticeship. This is meant to
be along the internship idea.

7. Making the environment of the institution of
a happy and recreational nature. Instead of
class work alone, there should be some activi-
ties going on around them.

8. The use of discussion group methods, and
actual practice rather than all lectures.

9. Some of curriculum built on basis of com-
prehensive job analysis of field workers.

10. Survey type courses covering broad areas of
study.

Our past logically arranged curricula have not
produced persons of a social engineering type.
Psychologists are now showing that our fixed cur-
ricula do not utilize all the potentialities for learn-
ing that are inherent in the total school situations.
Courses or credits do not tell what the students
have learned in the sense of what they really wholly
accept, nor do they guarantee how graduates will
use what they have learned. The individual per—
son’s basic habits and attitudes which are factors
determining behavior are not known by either the

574

By GEORGE M. GLoss
Associate Professor
Health and Physical Education

Louisiana State University

instructor or the individual dur-
ing the older traditional type
training program.

This all leads to a new concep-
tion of training on the basis of

collection of data and diagnoses of needs and pre-

scription to fit the individual cases. This implies

trained psychological counselors who are experts

in interpreting records of students and redirecting
their basic outlooks. An adequate guidance pro-
gram is, therefore, probably the most basic factor
in the trends for future training.

In addition to the guidance program, the actual
activities would seemingly be best practiced in a
real community situation. The school and com-
munity must come closer together. Individual
students may better solve their own problems and
the problems of their community by getting credit
for participation in life situations in the commu-
nity. Such activities as managing school plays,
the community recreation program, giving volun-
tary leadership on playgrounds, to clubs or indus-
tries, have potentialities greater than studying
from text books which are divorced from actual
situations. Practice teaching, to fit in with the
general idea, should be early in the students’
school training.

As a rule, recreation leadership training within

‘ the University and the College is not getting the

proper kind of environment and amount of atten—
tion. It cannot fit itself into the traditional in-
flexible conception of education. This rigidity
offers too many barriers to the tremendous range
of activities needed to make an adequate director
of recreational leadership.

The curriculum tends to become theoretical,
consisting mostly of lectures and reading of litera-
ture rather than actual experience evaluated in
terms of a consistent philos0phy of recreation.

In addition to this, our present social organiza-
tion builds an even larger and greater barrier for
best results. Salaries are far too low for recrea-
tion workers. This means, of course, that they
cannot afford a superior education and that few
of the best are attracted. Many of the remaining
better individuals leave the profession of recrea—
tion for higher salaries in other fields of endeavor
such as school teaching or social work.

i.
l.
'-

WORLD AT PLAY

 

DURING the latter part
of 1940, money was
raised by public sub—
scription to rebuild and
and operate the Old high school gym in Newark,
New York, which has been turned over to the vi]—
lage. Around three thousand dollars was raised and
a director hired for 1941. The gym building now
contains gym, reading room, four pocket billard
tables, four ping—pong tables, two meeting rooms,
exercise room with apparatus, and kitchen.

Old Gymnasium Now a
Recreation Center

A REPORT received
from Santa Monica,
California, would indi-
cate that this city of
about 60,000 population is spending about $3 per
capita for recreation.

Per Capita Cost for
Recreation Service

I

A LARGE-SCALE
“ Learn - to — Swim ”
Campaign has been in
Operation since 1928
in the State of Victoria, Australia, which has a
population of approximately two million people.
Organized by the Herald and sponsored by Coun-
cillor Frank Beaurepaire, present Lord Mayor of
Melbourne, the campaign has helped over 120,000
Victorian people of all ages to gain a practical ele-
mentary knowledge of swimming. The movement
is a result Of voluntary organization in which many
individuals and groups have cooperated. The 1941
edition of the Herald Learn-tO-Swim booklet which
is issued in connection with the campaign contains
many photographs and notes on swimming instruc-
tion and in addition suggestions for the establish-
ment Of swimming facilities in country as well as
seaside districts.

Melbourne Conducts
Swim Campaign

ACCORDING to a report
- in the N ew Y ark Times
the 2,600 employees of
the Republic Aviation
Corporation in Farmingdale, Long Island, are get-
ting symphony music with their meals one day a
week. The symphony music is being provided be—
cause it is believed that the relaxation the music
provides is an aid to efficiency of the workers who

Music Seen as Aid to
National Defense

 

are building lighting plans for the United States
and Great Britain. The music is provided by the
twenty-live piece Long Island WPA orchestra
under the direction of Christos Vrionides who sug-
gested the idea to the management.

THE ANNUAL exhibi-
tion of handcraft arti-
cles made by children
at the playgrounds
maintained by the New York City Department of
Parks was held in the recently constructed Junior
Museum of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Leather and basketry work, soap and chip carving,
rafha, reed and bead work, and weaving made up
the collection of handcrafts. The exhibit featured
useful and decorative articles for home and school
made from materials of all kinds. It was open

from October 16-23, 1941.

Playground Handcraft
Placed on Exhibit

MRS. FRANKLIN D.
ROOSEVELT, according
to the N ew Y ork H er-
ald Tribune of Octo—
ber 2, 1941, has suggested that backyards and
vacant lots throughout the country be turned into
vegetable gardens to help make America a larder
for the democracies.

“Writing in the October issue of The Democra-
tic Digest, Mrs. Roosevelt declared that America
must produce the kinds and quantities of foods
needed both for its own citizens and for the other
nations defending democracy. The nation should
begin now to prepare for planting gardens next
spring in these waste spaces, she said. This would
produce the twofold Objective of releasing many
edible products grown commercially for export and
improving nutritional standards, especially those
of school children, she remarked.

“Her suggestion coincided with a warning from
the Department of Commerce that smaller supplies
of certain canned foods would be available for
civilian consumption during the coming year.”

Backyard Gardens as
Aid in Emergency

DURING the last six
years, WPA workers
have constructed more

than 8,000 recreation
buildings, including 1,100 gymnasiums in daily

575

Report Shows Growth
in Facilities

576 WORLD AT PLAY

Here’s the

New
DIAMOND

 

Super Ringer

H's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
made! Aluminum and bronze. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
i’reated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
ment shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. 5. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4b|0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

 

use in school and community athletic programs,
and scores of buildings under the federally-spon-
sored defense recreation program, according to an
over-all report by Work Projects Commissioner
Howard 0. Hunter. Twenty-eight hundred new
athletic fields and 2,800 playgrounds have been
built by the WPA and improvements have been
made to 11,500 athletic fields and playgrounds.
Throughout the country these federal projects are
responsible for 7,800 parks built or improved, 750
swimming pools, thousands of tennis and handball
courts and other facilities. More than 3,500,000
persons could be seated in-the 2,100 WPA—built
grandstands and stadiums and 1,000 reconstructed
or improved stands. Winter sports came in for
their share of the construction. More than 1,000
newly-built ice skating rinks cover an area of
44,950,000 square feet. The report also includes
312 miles of new ski trails and 64 ski jumps.

Why Not Playgrounds for Old Folks?——-It
seems to me that I have not seen any statement
that seemed to realize fully the changes that have
come to the recreation situation through certain
industrial changes. In the days of my youth we
had a twelve hour day, a six or seven day week,

 

and no one outside the teaching profession ex-
pected a holiday, and that was not paid for. Now
we have an eight hour day, a five day week, and
industry is rapidly securing paid vacations of
about two weeks.

In olden days industry did not care for its in—

jured or sick. It made no allowance for unem-

ployment or old age. The coming of all of these
benefits has taken or is likely to take much of the
worry and strain out of life and make people more
free to enjoy their leisure.

There has been an increase of thirty-live per cent
in the last decade in people over sixty-live years
old. School children are now working longer hours
and having less leisure than their parents in many,
if not most, cases. Housekeeping with modern
conveniences is not a full time job for any capable
woman, and as we are leaving rearing of families
to our farm and colored population leisure is com-
ing to all groups; but the grOup that is getting a
superabundance is the group above sixty-five.
They need some work to do; but above all they
need something to do in their leisure time. The
group that now needs a playground more than the
children are these old folks.

Is it not about time that we added playgrounds
for old folks to our system ?—Extract from letter
from H enry 5. Curtis.

Still Young After Thirty-three Years of Ser— l
vice l—Thirty-three years of public service on
behalf of the city of Los Angeles, California, pro-
vided the occasion for honors paid to Charles 8.
Lamb, Secretary of the Playground and Recrea—
tion Commission in a civic affair held at the Echo
Playground Community Clubhouse on Saturday
evening, September 27, 1941. Mr. Lamb, whose
retirement became effective on October 1st, has
been identified with the growth of the public rec- l
reation movement in Los Angeles almost since its
inception. At the time of his entrance into munici—
pal recreation work there were just two city play-
grounds. Today there are fifty-two centers, each
greatly enlarged in size, scope, and program over
the original conception of a playground. Eighteen
municipal swimming pools, scores of tennis courts,
athletic fields, many splendid community center
clubhouse buildings, miles of municipal bathing
beaches, mountain camps, and other facilities have
been added. In this growth Mr. Lamb played an
important part, and it was in honor of these ser—
vices that tribute was paid him at the Echo Play-
ground meeting.

WORLD AT PLAY

Canadian Park Attendance Increases—The
Canadian National Parks report a record-breaking
increase of twenty—seven per cent in attendance
last year. This increase came at a time when the
total tourist trade volume throughout Canada had
been decreasing, according to the report from the

Province of Alberta.

, A Croquet League — A municipal croquet
I league was organized in Louisville, Kentucky, last
season by the Division of Recreation, Department
of Public W elfare—the first in its history, accord-
ing to the annual report. Thirty teams of 120
players played on four newly lighted courts for
three months leading up to the singles and doubles
of the municipal croquet championship bout which
ended the season. The Louisville Division co-
operated with the Kentucky Croquet Association
in publishing official croquet rule books.

Boy Scout Retreat in Chicago—A $2,500 Boy
Scout retreat was formally opened during Febru—
ary on the third floor of the Edgewater-Presby-
terian Church of Chicago. The large room resem-
bles the interior of a log cabin, with walls appear-
ing to be built of hewn birch logs and a ceiling
heavily timbered with oak. A pine log fire can be
built in the piled stone fireplace at one end of the
room. Boy Scouts raised $1,000 toward the cost
of this “Utopia of Boy Scouts the city over” and
the rest of the building fund was donated in labor
and materials by generous craftsmen.

National Parks for Argentina—The Argen-
tina government is promoting an extensive system
of national parks, according to the Argentina
N 6203, semi—official magazine published in Buenos
Aires. Six principal parks exist “for the spiritual
solace and physical benefit of tourists,” according
to the writer of the article, who adds that the area
of these parks amounts to about five million acres.

New Recreation Areas Opened—The army
has opened two recreation areas at Mobile, Ala-
bama, and Pascagoula, Mississippi, to serve as
week—end camps for men in training on leave from
near-by camps. Others will be opened at Panama
City and Pensacola, Florida, Biloxi and Gulf-
port, Mississippi, and New Orleans, Louisiana.
Facilities will be available for 500 men in each
camp with the exception of the one at New
Orleans, which will eventually take care of 1,000
men. The camps may later be enlarged to accom-

577

 
 

Good Morning, the dance manual which

has met with unusual popularity, has

been supplemented by our latest release,
October 1, 1941: r

RECORDS OF EARLY
AMERICAN DANCES

Ten of these Early American Dances recorded
by Henry Ford's old-time dance orchestra, playing
a popular form of American folk music, are now
available.

These numbers are taken directly from the Good
Morning book, and chosen for their rhythm, sim-
plicity, and popularity. with a variety of quadrilles.
circles, and couple dances, including a number of
singing calls.

Please fill out the following blank for a catalog
listing these records:

      
   
 
     
  
 

  
 
       
   
   
   
   
 
    
    
 

HENRY FORD
Dept. R—Box 100

Dearborn, Michigan

     
   
 

Please send me a copy of your catalog listing
Early American Dance Records.

    
     

Name .................................................................. ..

Street Address .................................................... . .

  
 

City ........................................ .. State ................ ..

  

modate from 2,500 to 7,500 men. Bathing beaches,
golf courses, tennis courts, open air movies, deep
sea fishing, and other recreational facilities and
activities are available near most of the camps.

Schedules of religious services for all denomina-
tions will be provided in each area. It is planned
that men will be permitted leave to take advan—
tage_ of the facilities from Friday noon until Sun-
day night, giving them two days and nights away
from vigorous camp life. City officials in each of
the seven areas plan to have concessionaires to
provide food at low cost, and low cost transporta-
tion has also been assured. The army will provide
tents, bedding, and cots for the soldiers in the
areas.

Recreation for the Children of Sydney—The
Municipal Council of Sydney, Australia, has es—
tablished a number of preschool and school age
playgrounds. Each large supervised playground
has its own field house, comfortably equipped and
provided with a library, piano, and an adequate
supply of play material. Separate sections are set
aside for boys and girls, and a special division is
reserved for preschool children. The children are

578

enrolled in each playground, and their names, ad-
dresses, ages, the school attended, together with
information regarding their particular interests,
are entered. At each playground the Council has
provided a selected library of a hundred volumes
from which the children borrow under the same
conditions applying to the use of the children’s
section of the Sydney municipal library. The
playground has the services of an assistant libra-
rian from the municipal library, who visits the
playground one afternoon each week.-

 

 

Christmas Wrapping Paper
(Continued from page 540)

a ruler and tiny lead pencil marks made where you
expect to place your print.

Any plain tissue paper may be used as a base.
However the colors show up best on white. The
prints may also be applied to cellophane or heavy
paper if it has a rough finish.

The designs need not always be symbols of
Christmas even though they are used at that sea-
son. It is fun to design something original that
might relate to the gift wrapped in the package or
to a particular interest of the person who is to
__receive the gift. For instance, tiny boats would
please a person whose hobby is sailing, or a piece
of needlework might be wrapped in paper decorat—
ed with scissors, a spool of thread or a thimble.
Small children would enoy wrapping paper printed
with toy designs or animals.

Packages containing food are a challenge to any
designer. Think of the many possibilities there are
for original designs. The covering of a fruit cake
might have a design made up of all the ingredi—
ents found in the cake; cookie recipes can be made
into a picture. Initials and monograms are always
a favorite motif for design.

 

Twelfth Night Revelry

(Continued from page 542)

erally made of pastry and baked in a large round
pan like a pie. A bean was baked into it and who-
ever found the bean in his cake became king and
led the festivities during the evening.

A modern adaptation of this idea might be a
grab bag made in the form of a Twelfth Cake, with
favors inside for matching partners. The player
receiving a bean would be master of ceremonies
during the evening.

Some countries remember that Twelfth Day is
a day of charms and wonders and that fortune may

CHRISTMAS lVRAPPING PAPER

sometimes be cajoled on January 6th. This spirit
may also be injected into your party. '

No Twelfth Night celebration would be com—
plete if given in the traditional manner without
wassail served as a drink. It was usually prepared
in large wooden bowls placed near the fire to keep
the drink warm. If there was a fireplace, apples
were tied above, and as they roasted the juice
dripped into the bowl.

The base of the drink was cider, beer or wine
To one gallon of cider would be added:

dash of grenadine
allspice
crushed cloves

pint milk or cream
6 egg whites, separated
and whipped

It’s Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 570)

New York. 651 pp. $2.75. The land of volcanic I

and glacial origin. Indians, pioneers, roaring days

of lumbering and the resulting fine arts. '

“IVood Identification for 4-H Clubs.” Club
Bulletin 26. Extension Division, Michigan State
College, East Lansing, June 1940. Valuable for
leaders.

Zoo. The Youth Leaders Digest for October
announces that the “Philadelphia Zoological Gar—
den has a baby pet zoo from which children may
borrow pets to take home.”

Christmas in Sweden
(Continued from page 536)

seasoned with caraway seeds have an interesting
Havor. Everyone circles around the table with
plate and fork selecting this and that delicacy.
These two courses are usually served at a late
lunch hour followed later in the day by the main
part of the dinner which is the traditional “Lut-
fisk.” This is a stock fish which has been sun-
dried—that is, it has been dried on the rocks. It is
as hard as a board when it comes from the store
and has to be carefully treated with lime and
soaked in water for nine days in preparation for
cooking. When it is ready to be cooked, it looks as
if it might melt away and is, therefore, carefully
placed in a linen cloth for boiling. When cooked,
it is white and flaky and is served with a cream
sauce seasoned with allspice. Boiled potatoes are
served with this dish. Everyone in Sweden serves
“Lutfisk” on Christmas Eve. Without it, it wouldn’t
seem like Christmas.

Then comes the dessert—the rice porridge
(risgrynsgrot). The rice is cooked in milk and

cinnamon I

4

 

 

LUDWIG H. KOTTNAUER 579

Ludwig H. Kottnauer

HE RECREATION MOVEMENT lost one of its old-
Test and most devoted workers when Ludwig H.
Kottnauer, general field assistant of the Depart—
ment of Recreation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, died
suddenly of a heart attack a few minutes after ad-
dressing the Second Annual Conference of the
\Nisconsin Recreation Association at Milwaukee
on November 9, I941.

In 19I2, Mr. Kottnauer became director of the
Forest Home Avenue Social Center, coming to the
recreation movement from the teaching field. In
192I he was made general field assistant of the
Recreation Department, then known as the Exten-
sion Department, Milwaukee Public Schools. Dur-
ihg the years he served in that capacity he carried
heavy responsibilities.

Mr. Kottnauer was a man of great personal
charm, loyalty, and devotion 'to the cause of rec-
; reation. To an unusual degree he cared for peOple
and understood their problems and knew how to
be helpful to them. He could utilize professional
knowledge without having it overshadow his
I human understanding and friendship. Always he
was a comrade.

” sugar and decorated on top with an intricate de—
sign of powdered cinnamon. It is served either
with cream or raspberry sauce. Before anyone can
partake of the dessert, he must make a jingle or a
rhyme. There is much merriment, for in the por-
° ridge is concealed an almond, and the young man
or woman who, while helping himself or herself
to a portion, gets the almond, is supposed to be the
first one to be married during the coming year.

“Jultomte Arrives”

People in that bracing climate have generous
appetites! After the older folks have enoyed their
coffee, it is time for Santa Claus to arrive. We
call him the “Jultomte,” and he is the good luck
gnome who lives beneath our home. The children
see to it that a bowl of rice porridge is placed out—
side the kitchen door on Christmas Eve for this
gnome. In the morning, they find it gone and
know that it must have appealed to him. The
“Jultomte” comes laden with gifts which he de-
posits on the floor and quickly departs, for the
little ones must not discover who he really is. He
brings dolls dressed in the costumes of the
provinces for the little girls, and for the boys there
are carved wooden horses painted gray, white, or

  
 
  
   

  

As Originally
Developed by . . .

DR. FORREST C.

"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University 01 Kansas

Lawrence, Kansas

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of

all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating

exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Under Exclusive License {Agreement}

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
 DeKalb Street I. n n n a .

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

 

black, with real manes and tails. After the-ex-
citement of receiving and opening the packages,
everyone circles the lighted tree and the long dance
begins, with dancers weaving in and out of every
room of the house singing: -“Now it’s Christmas
again, now it’s Christmas again, and Christmas
lasts until Easter.” The next line, however, ex-
plains that Lent comes between Christmas and
Easter. After the singing of carols it’s time to
turn in, but we hardly fall asleep before we are

wakened and served coffee in bed. In the still

dark morning we drowsily get up and go to early
church. (The State Church in Sweden is Luth-

RECREATION
EQUIPMENT
BY PORTER

Complete line of gymnasium.
playground and pool equip-
ment. Famed "Iungleqym"
Climbing Structure — illus-
trated — as low as $50.40
P. O. B. Factory. Write for
literature.

1!
rm: 1. E. PORTER CORPORATION

-ILLINOIS

OTTAWA it

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

St. Louis. Mo.

580 ED UCA NON—RECREATION LEADERSHIP

eran.) The service begins at iive-thirty and the
church is lighted with hundreds of candles and
blazing candelabras. In the snowy twilight we hear
the church bells intermingle with the jingling
sleighbells as we ride or walk to church through
the crunching snow. Many of the sleighs are
lighted with flaring torches and in every house
windows are gleaming with candles, placed there
to light the Christ Child. It is indescribany beau-
tiful with the starlight on the snow. The stars
always seems larger and brighter on that particular

morning than at any other time.

On Christmas Day

On Christmas Day, after religious services, rel-
atives gather and a ceremonious dinner is served;
There is usually roast goose stuffed with prunes
and apples; there are pastries and strawberry jam
for dessert, prefaced, Of course, by the usual “smor-
gasbord.” Christmas Day itself is spent rather
quietly, but on the day after Christmas which is
also a holiday there is more festivity, and the
sparkling merriment continues with balls and din-
ner parties and all kinds of winter sports until St.
Knute Day, January I 3th. This is the twentieth
day of Christmas, counting from Christmas Eve,
and the day on which the Christmas tree is
plundered and its decorations put away. On this
day, as the saying goes, “’Tis time to dance
Christmas out.”

Memorial in Concrete
(Continued from page 553)

out over the twelve acres of the park. Softball and
baseball diamonds are in constant use, and facili-
ties are being provided for boccia ball, archery,
horseshoe pitching, children’s play, etc. The wad—
ing pool which will be built can be used as a skat-
ing rink during the winter.

Purposes of the center are listed as recreational,
educational and vocational, communal and social.
Classes in woodwork and machine operation,
mechanical drawing, electricity, and home appli—
ances will be provided in addition to recreation
activities. I

Lucia Dagen
(Continued from page 539)
In the morning of the day of the program, in-
formal activities took place on the two slides, the

spark stotting, wooden horses, skating rink, and
ski iields. Later in the day organized events were

Education-Recreation Leader-

ship in the World Upheaval
of the Forties

AN IMPORTANT PROBLEM for us today as for all
thinking citizens is the maintenance and im-
provement of American democracy. Education-
recreation leaders are in a unique position to help
maintain American democracy. The very skills
and methods we have been allowed to develop in
the United States are the basis on which de-ll
mocracy can be maintained and further refined and
improved.

The technique of recreation leadership that'.
builds health and physical fitness and morale is
imperative not alone for defense but in the de-
velopment of a physically and mentally lit people
who can create a better democracy than any we
have known before.

Education-recreation leaders work with youth
and adults during their free time and are there-
fore working with them at the time when public
opinion and morale are most intensively developed.
Club leaders, discussion leaders, participants in
community and national planning bodies are all a
part of the process of democracy. We should con—
tinue to demonstrate through the use of this proc-
ess the worth of democracy.

Education-recreation leaders should, of course,
work and create with people and never for them.
They should help individuals to learn to live con-
structively and creatively.

Education—recreation leaders are for the most part
companions in voluntary associations. They are-
part of the leaven of the loaf of democracy, a very
small part but a very vital one. The leader seeks
through the process of integrating, synthesizing
and creating to prove that democracy works.

Professional workers will have opportunities to
dominate, to drive, to manipulate. Such action
must be shunned and the sharing democratic proc-
ess continued—Abstracts from a paper by Walter
L. Stone, Ph.D., Director, Informal Education
Service, Nashville, Tennessee.

 

conducted on these facilites. The smorgasbord,
from noon until the middle of the afternoon, in-
cluded typical Swedish home—cooked foods set at
an attractive large T—shaped table. Each person
who brought an article of food, which was deter-
mined in advance, was paid for the cost of the

 

THE DEFENSE RECREATION PROGRAM 581

ingredients only. The small profits from the smor-
gasbord were added to profit made at the Lucia
Dagen dance to defray general expenses. This
activity was not staged to raise money, but it was
expected to be self—supporting, and it was that.

At the afternoon program of entertainment, com-
munity singing of Swedish folk songs opened the
program. Among other numbers on the program,
talks in English and Swedish explained the ori-
gin and customs of Lucia Dagen. Swedish folk
dances and songs colored the program and set the
stage for the impressive crowning, by the Mayor
of Duluth, of the Lucia bride with her attendants
attired as the. Lussi of Sweden. (Rural and urban
relations are encouraged in every way through the
.winter sports program.)

Immediately following the program, a special
meeting was held in the school library with mem-
bers of the Executive Board of the Greater Rural
St. Louis County Winter Frolic Association and
the County—wide Lucia Dagen Committee. This
meeting helped crystallize the future possibilities
of Lucia Dagen and its place in the entire winter
sports calendar.

This year a large celebration will be held at
Bear River community with the responsibility en-
tirely in the hands of the capable leaders of that
progressive community. Assisting in coordination
will be Miriam Isaacson, Regional Recreation
Director.

Lucia Dagen has just begun to function as part
of the winter program of the people of our county.
The complete possibilities have by no means been
exhausted, and much more can be done to develop
the event. It is, however, proving an important
contribution to the winter calendar and to the ap-

preciation of recreation deve10ping among our
citizens.

The Defense Recreation Program
(Continued from page 557)

zations for National Defense, Inc., has been desig-
nated by the President to operate the clubs built
in local communities by the federal government
when requested by the local community. The
money raised by the U.S.O., with the exception of
a small part for central administration, will be
spent by the individual organizations which make
up the United Service Organizations, for opera-
tions specifically authorized by the U.S.O. The
United Service Organizations include:

PLAY MINI-GOLF

Teaches Novice o Lowers Score of Dub Golfer

Mini-Golf and Shun-Off is playable in the recreation hall,
gym, church, parlor or on any smooth surface. Why not
start a small class in the rudiments of golf. Inexpensive
and simple to demonstrate”

You taught tennis through my game of Paddle Tennis.
Now try MINI-GOLF.

Send for catalogue of Paddle Tennis, Rounders, Pad-
minton, (Chinese) Chungua Chess and Shove Ha’Penny.

BEAL'S GAMES. Inc.

277 FIFTH AVE" NEW YORK CITY MUrray Hill 447239 -40

For information concerning

The Scottish Country Dance Society of the United States.
write to Beal's Games. Inc., 277 Fifth Ave., New York City

 

Jewish Welfare Board
National Catholic Community Service

Salvation Army

Traveler’s Aid
Young Men’s Christian Associations
Young W omen’s Christian Associations

These individual organizations will Operate the
buildings assigned to them in accordance with rules
and regulations adopted among themselves, and in
accordance with their programs as approved by
the federal government. The operation must ac-
complish the purpose of Congress in providing
community facilities: ,

The WPA has a iive—million-dollar appropria-
tion out of which recreation workers may be as-
signed to help on various defense recreation proj-
ects when approved by the Federal Security Agency.
Seventy—five per cent of this fund is to cover ex—
isting operations, and from the balance, recreation
workers may be assigned to help on new defense
recreation projects.

The Office of Civilian Defense is setting up cen-
tral bureaus for recruiting and placing volunteers.
Their emphasis is not only‘upon recruiting volun-
teers for defense recreation service but also re-
cruiting volunteers to strengthen the normal com-
munity services, and for civilian protection.

Churches, fraternal orders, veterans’ organiza-
tions and many other community groups are also
rendering special services.

In any given community the first responsibility
is with the community; the official body through
which to work is the defense recreation commit-
tee; all agencies, national and local, public and
private, including the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, Work Projects Administration, and United

582

Three Books

of Immediate
Interest

. . . by Porter Sargent

V

GETTING US INTO WAR

640 pages, black vellum cloth, $4.00

A Contemporary Record of changes of the past
three years in Public Opinion—An attempt to throw
light on the way International Affairs are presented,
and on the little known forces and influences that use
events to alter our views. Introductory Chapters il-
luminate historical and political backgrounds. The
Encyclopedic Index is of special reference value on
current personalities and affairs.

WHAT MAKES LIVES

224 pages, red silk cloth, $1.50

Endeavors to answer “What Makes You Think 30”;

Challenges “How Do You Know You Are Right”—

Attempts to explain how we are shaped or misshaped
by our changing environments,—powerful personali-
ties, propaganda and teaching—Interprets events in
terms of human motives of the chief actors, perhaps
violating some proprieties and tabus.

WAR AND EDUCATION

Ready soon, ca 352 pages, $3.00

An attempt in the midst of war to appraise realisti-
cally what education is, has been, and might be,—
the effect of war and defense activities thrust unex-
pectedly upon educational institutions and educators
unprepared and already in a state of confusion. From
the maelstrom of current tendencies in America and

England, an attempt has been made to detect future
trends.

 

Circulars, Table of Contents

of above on request

PORTER SARCENT
BOSTON

11 BEACON STREET

 

TIME MERCHANTS

Service Organizations, are to render their ser-
vices when called upon by the-local community
committee. The field recreation representative of
the Federal Security Agency is the official gov-
ernment coordinator of all recreation services and
is the channel through which supplementary aid
from national and state agencies, both public and

private, reaches the community. '-
Time Merchants '
(Continued from page 565) '

Hallowe’en Noisemakers” almost doubled those
for the bibliography.

Though the offer of free material is not a falli-
ble method for program testing, from our venture
we have determined: (1) that according to a _
radio-listener survey theory (one hundred listen-
ers per request for free material) more than 5,000
listeners were tuned to our broadcast over a four
program period; (2) judging from the number of
unsolicited requests, we hope we are justified in
assuming listeners enjoy the service in home and
family recreation we are endeavoring to extend;
(3) that listeners prefer pamphlets on how to do
and make things (not surprising, either) ; (4)
what our -future programs will be.

At present we plan to build a series of programs
on hobbies, including several on amateur photog-
raphy, stamp collecting, home art and crafts and
nature, as insect collecting and preserving. For
each of these programs we hope to interview per-
sons noted for their work in the hobby to be dis-
cussed. We also are preparing material in the
form of pamphlets concerning each hobby. These
pamphlets will be available free of charge to in-
terested listeners.

Weekly state-wide news releases and posters
placed in recreation centers, hobby shops, schools, ,
and similar centers, will publicize the programs.

The venture described has resulted in another
motto for us to observe: “Put recreation activities
on the map by putting them on the radio.”

It Belongs to Them

( Continued from page 546)
In an effort to minimize individual importance

no flowers are ever received in public, no tele-
grams delivered, and no curtain calls taken. All
costumes are provided by the Theater; no social
status is considered by the director in awarding
parts. The baker’s child and the socially elite are
cast side by side. Participation is many-sided, and
since only one lead a year is allowed, the children

 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 583

find the technical phases of the theater as inter—
esting as acting.

Believing that if a play is worth doing it is
worth doing well, the Children’s Theater spends
a great deal of effort and thought on sets, cos-
tumes and lighting. In other words, a child has
the right to expect these physical aspects of the
production to aid him in the portrayal of his role.
Scenery, costumes and lights balance the lack of
experience of the actor in life situations and help
him interpret roles that are out of the realm of his
experience. Interest from the Saturday audiences
who pour backstage to see and touch articles on
the set as well as “Amy’s dress” or “Pinnochio’s
suit” are proof that “just anything” won’t do for
scenery! Do not be mistaken, inexpensive scen-
ery can answer all of the prerequisites, but careful
planning is necessary.

Careful confidential records of the children are
kept in order that valuable time during the six
weeks which a play is in rehearsal may not be
wasted. These include the child’s health record,
his standing in school, his social status, his hobbies,
his reading interests, and all things important to
understanding the child.

Working in close cooperation with the parents
and schools, the Children’s Theater has been able
to bring to the children of Palo Alto those fairy
tales that belong to a child’s heritage. That seems
to be the crowning service of all children’s thea-
ters, public or private, since the modern curricu-
lum with its socialized living has put the stories of
transportation and airplane development into the
primer. There is a need, therefore, for children’s
theaters over the country to be an instrument
through which the children’s imaginations are en-
riched, stimulated, a love of the beautiful en-
couraged, and a sense of values established for
later life. The elevating of the entertainment levels
of the future by influence exerted from citizens
whose childhood theater gave them an intelligent
and critical attitude toward entertainment should

be an indirect result from such recreational en-
terprises.

Mason Park Builds a Horseshoe Court

(Continued from page 552)

ton this summer, with the Mason Park club as
hosts, fulfilling one of their early dreams.

Day after day and night after night, the club
members and their friends may be seen enjoying
the fruits of their labors as they play on the
beautifully lighted courts.

   
 

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

      

MAGAZIN E5

The American City, November 1941
“What Makes ‘East Providence Floodlighting Ex—
ceptional.” Night lighting for a stadium.

Beach and Pool, October 1941

“Four Municipal Swimming Pools Provide the Most
Popular Recreation in Beaumont, Texas” by Frank

L. Bertschler
“Ripples in Rhyme. Directions for water pageants

produced by the Aquatic League of the University
of Minnesota

H

Children’s Religion, December 1941

“Christmas Songs and Customs of Many Lands” by
Frances McKinnon Morton

The Country Back, Summer 1941

“Concerning Bogas and Arwes” by Stephen Harweis.
The how and what of archery condensed from
Town and Country

Hygeia, November 1941
“Army Athletics” by Major Theodore P. Bank

Journal of Physical Education, November-December 1941

“Achieving Religious Purposes Through the Pro-
gram of Physical Education” by Rev. George 0.
Kirk

The Nation’s Schools, November 1941
“This High School Is Designed for Community Use”
by Lewis W. Feik

The New Swimmin’ Hole, October 1941
“Health Aspects of Swimming” by C. W. Klassen

National Parent-Teacher, November 1941

“The Creative Way Out” by Sterling North. Luring
the child away from the comics by craft work,
music, literature

Parks and Recreation, October 1941

“The Park and Recreation Plan of Delaware County,
(Pennsylvania)” by Carl H. Schmitt

“We Were Ready—A Story of the Regional Parks l”
by Elbert M. Vail. How a pioneer vision has met
the defense recreation needs of the San Francisco
Bay area

Safety Education, October 1941

“Curbing the Bike Violator” by Captain Earl Mills
“Safety at Play” by Pearl C. McKenney. Teaching
safety to first graders

- Safety Education, November 1941

“Backyard Playgrounds”
“Safety Factors in Physical Education”

“Underwater Lighting” by H. E. Lippman

Scholastic Coach, October and November 1941

“Volleyball Techniques” by Josephine Burke
“Badminton Strokes” by Jack Purcell

584 BISHOP LAWRENCE

PAM PH LETS

Philosophy, Organization and Operation of “Yomawhd”

by Samuel S. Solender . _
Young Men’s and Women’s Hebrew Association of

Washington Heights, Fort Washington Avenue
and 178th Street, New York

Proceedings of the Second Park Naturalists Conference
National Park Service, Department of the Interior,
Washington, D. C.

School Hygiene and Physical Education by James F.
Rogers, M.D. Volume I, Chapter VI of the Biennial
Survey of Education in the U. S., Office of Education

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C_.,

price $.05

A Selected Bibliography on Group Work
Association Press, 347 Madison Avenue, New York,

price $.15

Sports and Recreation Guide Book. Recreation for labor

unions _ _
Trade Union Athletic Assoc1at10n, 5 Beekman Street,

New York, price $.25

Teach Yourself to Sing by Pierre Key
Reader Mail, Inc., 635 Sixth Avenue, New York,

price $.10

Report of Playground and Recreation Association of
Philadelphia. Delivered by the executive secretary at
34th annual meeting

Playground and Recreation Association, Philadel-
phia, Pa.

Riding for F an. Suggestions for horsemen and women.
Board of Park Commissioners, Recreation Depart-
ment, Minneapolis, Minn.

What the Schools Can Do. Education and National De-

fense Series, U. S. Ofiice of Education. Pamphlet No. 4

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,
price, $.15

State-Wide Trends in School Hygiene and Physical Edu-
cation. U. S. Olhce of Education Pamphlet No. 5

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,
price $.05

Twenty-fourth Annual Report of Community Music As-
sociation. Mu51c program of City of Flint, Michigan
Community Music Association, Flint, Mich.

Where to Buy Supplies for Educational Institutions.
List of firms specializing in serving private schools,
public schools, colleges, universities, and summer camps.

Porter Sargent, 11 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.

ANNUAL REPORTS

The. Home_ Front, Children’s Aid Society, New York
City; Fairmount Park Art Association, Philadelphia,
Pa.; National Playing Fields Association, London,
England; The Rockefeller Foundation, New York City;

Vocational Service for Juniors, 95 Madison Avenue,
New York City

Board of Education, Buffalo, N. Y.; City of Cincinnati,
01110; Playground and Recreation Board, Forest Park,
Ill.; Recreation and Playground Association, Lancas-
ter, Pa.; Recreation Department, Board of Park Com-
missioners, Minneapolis, Minn.; Playground Commu-
n1ty Service Commission, New Orleans, La.; Park De-
partment, Passaic, N. J.; City Schools, WPA and
NYA, Provo City, Utah; Onondaga County Park and
Regional Planning Board, Syracuse, N. Y.; City of
Toledo, Ohio

Group Work Division, Council of Social Agencies, Los
Angeles, Calif.; Your City at Work, City of Los

Angeles, Calif.; Municipal Reference Library, Milwau-
kee, WIS.

Bishop Lawrence

N NOVEMBER 6, 1941, Right Reverend Wil-

liam Lawrence, for many years Protestant
Episcopal Bishop of Massachuetts, died of a heart
attack in his home. He was 91 years of age. For
many years he had been an honorary member of
the National Recreation Association. He worked
closely with Joseph Lee in the early days of the
movement, going with Mr. Lee to see a great many
individuals to interpret the work of the Associa-
tion to attempt to build up financial support for
the National Recreation Association. In the death
of Bishop Lawrence the Association and the whole
recreation movement have lost an understanding
friend who gladly gave of his time and influence
to try through the Association to build a more
permanently satisfying way of life for all the people
of the United States.

Skate, But Skate Saler

(Continued from page 567)

Care of Ice Accident Victim. If the victim is not
breathing, artificial respiration should be applied.
If no near-by shelter is available, this process is
carried on in the open, all available blankets,
sweaters, and coats being placed over and under
the victim. Beneath the covers rescuers may strip
the victim of wet clothing and build fires near by
for added warmth. Shock and pneumonia should

be guarded against.

How Basketball Originated

(Continued from page 564)
2. The ball may be batted in any direction with

one or both hands (never with the list).

3. A player cannot run with the ball. The
player must throw it from the spot on which
he catches it; allowance to be made for a
man who catches the ball when running at a
good speed.

4. The ball must be held in or between the
hands; the arms or body must not be used
for holding it.

5. No shouldering, holding, pushing, tripping,
0r striking in any way, the person of an op-
ponent shall be allowed; the first infringe-
ment of this rule by any person shall
count as a foul, the second shall disqualify
him until the next goal is made, or, if there
was evident intent to injure the person for
the whole of the game, no substitute allowed.

 

“PLAY HAS INHERENT VALUES” 585

6. A foul is striking at the ball with the fist,
violation of Rules 3, 4, andsuch as described
in Rule 5.

7. If either side makes three consecutive fouls,
it shall count a goal for the opponents. (Con-
secutive means without the opponents in the
meantime making a foul.)

8. A goal shall be made when the ball is thrown
or batted from the grounds into the basket
and stays there, providing those defending
the goal do not touch or disturb the goal. If
the ball rests on the edge and the opponent
moves the basket, it shall count as a goal.

9. When the ball goes out of bounds, it shall be
thrown into the field and played by the per-

son first touching it. In case of a dispute, the.

umpire shall throw it straight into the field.
The thrower-in is allowed five seconds. If
he holds it longer it shall go to the opponent.
If any side persists in delaying the game, the
umpire shall call a foul on them.

IO. The umpire shall be judge of the men and
shall note the fouls and notify the referee when
three consecutive fouls have been made. He
shall have power to disqualify men according
to Rule 5.

II. The referee shall be judge of the ball and
shall decide when the ball is in play, in
bounds, to which side it belongs, and shall
keep the time. He shall decide when a goal
has been made, and keep account of the goals,
with any other duties that are usually per-
formed by a referee.

12. The time shall be two fifteen minute halves,
with five minutes rest between.

13. The side making the most goals in that time
shall be declared the winners. In case of a
draw, the game may, by agreement of the
captains, be continued until another goal is
made.

The class began to assemble. Eighteen were in
the class so nine men played on each team—three
forwards, three centers, and three guards. And
the first game began—fifty years ago.

The name “Basketball” was suggested by one
of the first players after Naismith had objected to
“Naismith Ball.” The game caught on immedi-
ately. At Christmas vacation time the players took
the game to their home towns and of course the
present popularity of the game, which has changed
in none of its fundamental principles, is well known.

That is the story of the origin of basketball. How
many games had a part in its discovery!

The Christmas Book

Delightful illustrations, practical directions
for making Christmas decorations, a chil-
dren’s party, a Christmas music quiz, echoes
of Christmas customs throughout the world,
Christmas caroling, and timely articles on
other phases of Christmas celebrations will

be found in this new booklet.

The Christmas Book is

ready f or distribution.

Order your copy now.

Price $.50

National Recreation Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue New York City

"Play Has Inherent Values"
(Continued from page 544)

The second major effort has been toward the de-
velopment of a favorable attitude of informality
among these groups and individuals. We have
tried to make it possible for groups and individuals
to have direct contacts and therefore the necessary
relationships for intergroup affairs. An educa-
tional program has been a good feature here. We
found that youngsters were staying within a
limited field of activities simply because they had
never experienced anything different.

In conjunction with these two developments has
been a third, namely the enrichment of the program
itself to include many new and radically different
games and activities. The more highly organized
games such as basketball and volleyball still re-
tained much of their pOpularity, but for the first
time they had to share the child’s interest with
many less strenuous and less competitive games
such as shuffieboard, badminton, handball, table
tennis, darts, checkers in all its varieties—in short,
a coming of age for many heretofore largely
ignored games. These latter activities have a two—
fold value; they are intensely interesting and pro-

586 A COUNTY PARK SYSTEM MATURES

vide much fun at the moment, and in addition
have the possibility of always being a worthy pos-
sible outlet for recreation activity in the long adult
period of life.

The reward should come in the act; it should
be in terms of fun and joy, certainly not in a sys—
tem of points. This seems to be the logical ap-
proach to follow. It is far easier to make a com-—
plete program and fit in thousands of children as
we are largely doing today. The question then
remains to be answered, are we sincere and willing
to face the task?

Delegates at Play

(Continued from page 568)
community recreation, both indoors and out, sum—
mer and winter. With this growing enthusiasm on
the part of the once skeptical men, we may expect
great things in folk dancing for adult community
recreation groups in forthcoming years.

A County Park System Matures
(Continued from page 562)

plans, and supervises activities to meet the recrea-
tional needs of the people and to attract active use
of the parks.

Guarding the safety and comfort of visitors to
the park system is the Police Department. This
force, while admirably qualified to quell riot or
disorder, is trained to be one of helpers and ad-
visors, and has built up a reputation for friendly
service.

The staff works as an aggressive unit to pro-
mote the pleasure and welfare of the public. Be-
cause of their combined fine work, more than
5,000,000 recorded visitations are now registered
annually throughout the park units of the system.

It may be generally accepted that each of the
twenty parks, being a thing of beauty in itself,
entices the expenditure of idle hours in pleasant
surroundings, and that is the fundamental object
of a park system. But, in order to give vent to the
energies of youth and middle age and to provide
pastimes for the elderly and thus assist to banish
care and worry and stimulate health, there are
facilities for every sport one can call to mind, with
the exception of polo.

There is ample opportunity for rowing, canoe-
ing, lake and stream fishing, swimming, softball
and baseball playing, football, running, tennis,
cricket, horseshoe pitching, rifle shooting, trap-
shooting, skeet, archery, model yacht sailing, to—
bogganing, skating, sledding, skiing, handball,

bocce, lawn bowling, soccer, picnicking, camping,
horseback riding over twenty-five miles of bridle
paths, ice hockey, nature hikes, camera clubs, chil-
dren’s playgrounds, and many other activities.

Much of the attendance is sought from those of
average prowess, but a full series of county cham—
pionship leagues and tournaments are conducted
on published schedules, and for these adequate
bleacher or stadium seating facilities are available.
On any favorable week end a tour through the
parks entices the visitor to attend one event after
another, continuing into the evening hours.

It is often asked, “Do the people really appreci-
ate these advantages?” I base my reply on prac-
tical grounds derived as a result of almost twenty
years of mingling with park visitors, usually un-
known to them. I have sat with boys fishing on the
banks of streams; I have yelled in the bleachers
with “fans”; I have mixed with swimmers. I have
played golf with strangers, and at other times sat
for hours on a tee or near a green chatting with
the procession of players. I have fraternized with
exhibitors at horse shows, and invited myself to
listen to some musically inclined families on a
picnic. I have sat in the midst of strangers at an
evening pageant attracting a 25,000 audience, and
at those outstanding Community N ights—Scottish,
Spanish, Polish, Italian, German, Ukrainian, Irish,
America, and English—when crowds of 8,000 to
18,000 descendants of the particular nation cele-
brating reverted to their national costumes, songs
and dances. I have talked with the contestants in
athletic events.

From all these contacts, I could not help but
obtain a cross-section of their opinions. On such
a basis, the unequivocal answer is that an over-
whelming majority of the populace not only ap-
preciates these advantages but likewise regards
them as their greatest opportunity for pleasure.

But, in addition to the pleasure conveyed, there
are many other intangible benefits of which we
have no accurate measure. It is believed that the
county health record is improved, the respect for
the rights of others is instilled-in a community
possessing parks, crime is prevented to an im-
portant degree, and labor disputes minimized in
our locality. In industrial centers, like Linden and
Rahway, it was a pleasant experience to learn
from personnel executives that the availability of
an adequate system of parks provided a strong
influence in deciding the company to locate within
Union County, since the management of enlight-
ened companies has a very real interest in the wel-
fare of its employees in leisure hours.

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

The Children's Party Book

By Mary Breen. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.
$2.50. ~

MARY BREEN, who is well known to recreation workers
as the author of Partners in Play, The Party Book,
and other publications, I has given us a delightful and
much needed book in this volume of parties for children.
Each party is completely planned from beginning to end,
but the children may have a part in the planning since
most of the invitations, decorations, and favors can be
made by them and many of the game adaptations are the
children’s own. The text is fully illustrated with specific
as well as decorative drawings.

Directions For Square Weaver and
Pattern Weaving

By Marguerite Ickis. Order from author at 70 Morning—
side Drive. New York City. $25.

ABOOKLET DESIGNED to introduce the square weaver
and to give directions for patterns which may be
woven on simple looms. The patterns shown in the book
are only a few that may be woven on the square weaver.
It is simple to make up your own designs.

Model-Theatre Cratthcenery,
Actors and Plays

By Ruth Vickery Holmes. Frederick A. Stokes Company,
New York. $2.00.

THROUGH YEARS of experimentation the 'author has de-
veloped a model theater that can easily be made by

children as a school or home play project and at the same .
time is complete enough to be of assistance to older I

theater enthusiasts, playwrights and designers in getting
the general effect of the stage pictures they are creating.
There are suggestions for making the theater, the actors
and animals, and patterns and designs are given for
scenery and properties. Four usable plays are included
with full acting directions.

Tennis For Teachers

By Helen Irene Driver, B.A., M.S. W. B. Saunders
Company, Philadelphia. $2.50.

N THE SECOND EDITION of Miss Driver’s book she has

included a new chapter on “Ball Spin” and another
entitled “The Question Clinic.” Her discussion of
Streamlined Tennis has been brought up to date, and
there are numerous new illustrations. Suggestions are
offered for organizing a complete tennis program.

The Binding oi Books

By Kenneth F. Perry and Clarence T. Baab. The Manual
Arts Press, Peoria, Illinois. $2.00.

HIS BOOK PRESENTS a discussion of the entire field of
hand binding and tells what to do, how to do it, and
what is best to use. Part One deals with the principles
involved, with tools, equipment, and materials. Part Two

consists of thirty-One units of processes, with each step in

binding clearly explained. There are many illustrations
and diagrams.

How to Be an Active Citizen

in a Democracy

Edited by The Town Hall Civic Affairs Committee. The
Town Hall, Inc., 123 West 43rd Street, New York. $.50.

HIS HANDBOOK, designed to answer the question of the

average citizen who is interested in “doing something
about it,” lists fifty-seven different organizations in nine
classifications which he may join. Through these organi-
zations hundreds of thousands of American citizens are
making far more effective contributions to democratic
government than they could alone. The book gives the
following information about each organization: name;
address; aim; national afIiliations; requirements for
membership; dues if any; and officers. Also included in
the booklet are congressional and assembly district maps

of N ew' York City area and a directory of city and state
ofiicials.

Ai6uide to the Trees

By Carlton C. Curtis, Ph.D. Greenberg: Publisher, New
York. $1.50. I

THIS BOOK, now in its eighth printing, contains a des-
cription in clear terms of every variety of tree in the
area from Virginia west to Colorado and thence north
to the Arctic Circle. A glossary and more than two hun-
dred illustrations make the text still clearer.

l94l Year Book—Park and Recreation
Progress

Available from Superintendent of Documents, Washing-
ton, D. C. $.40.

HE 1941 YEARBOOK of the National Park Service, re-

porting park and recreation progress, contains a num-
ber of articles :by leaders in the park field. “The National
Recreation Report” is given -by Herbert Evison and there
is an article entitled “The Designer in National Parks”
by Henry V. Hubbard. Other articles include “Parks and
Waysides' as Features of R'oadside Development” by R.
H. Baldock and S. H. Boardman; “Parks and Recreation
in the Philippines” by Louis Croft; and “Organized
Camp as Adjunct to the Public Schools” by Willis A.
Sutton.

Let’s Give a Play

By Mildred H. Brown. The Girls’ Friendly Society,
U.S.A., 386 Fourth Avenue, New York. $.25.

HANDBOOK ON DRAMATICS for all ages, this booklet
describes simply and briefly the steps involved in
putting on a play. The chapter headings read as follows:
“Let’s Act It Out”; “Let’s Make Our Own Play” ; “Let’s

Give a Real Play”; “Let’s Try Informal Dramatics”; and
“Let’s See What We’ve Learned.”

587

588

Christmas Publications.

The Womans Press, New York. .

Four publications by the Womans Press are of speCIal
interest at just this time: Told in» All Tongues, by Lucy
Schulte, a dramatization of the story of the celebration
of Christmas showing the contributions made by racial
groups in America to an American Christmas, $.25; The
Man tho Gave Us Christmas, by Edith Newlin and
Others, $.25; The Pearl Merchant, a Christmas Play by
Anna R. Kennedy, $.25; and Music S aggest-ions for the
Christmas Season, selected from many sources by Marion

Peabody, $.40.

Play for ConValescent Children in
Hospitals and at Home.

By Anne Marie Smith. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $1.60.

Over a million children are admitted each year to hos-
pitals in the United States where it is estimated that
forty per cent of the child’s day is taken up 'by physical
care. Miss Smith tells in this book how one hospital, the
Children’s Memorial Hospital in Chicago, uses play to
help fill in a constructive way the sixty per cent of time
left over. The values of play activities are emphasized
and the program interpreted. Not the least valuable sec-
tions of the book are those listing play materials for
children of various ages, books, and games. There is also
a helpful classified bibliography.

Gardening for Young People.

By M. G. Kains. Greenberg: Publisher, New York.
$1.50.

From cover to cover this book is packed full of easy—
to-follow gardening information dealing with every im-
portant aspect Of the art of growing things. The reader
learns how many wonderful things can be grown in a
garden or even indoors, and with the help of dozens of
well drawn illustrations he is shown exactly how to- grow
them.

Backgammon.

By Millard Hopper. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $1.00.

One of the things which makes backgammon so fas-
cinating to so many people is its mixture of skill and
chance. The author shows step by step how to develop
winning strategies in both these areas. The diagrams
showing the exact movements of the plays leave nothing
to the imagination, and all of the principles of the game
are explained.

Championship Technique in Track and Field.

A Book for Athletes, Coaches, and Spectators. By
Dean B. Cromwell and Al Wesson. Whittlesey
House, McGraw—Hill Book Company, Inc., New
York. $3.00. .

In this book for athletes, coaches, and spectators Mr.
Cromwell, who is head track and field coach of the Uni-
versity of Southern California, in collaboration with Al
Wesson, explains in great detail and with concrete ex-
amples what the individual styles of play are and how
they are best developed. The book opens with intro—
ductory chapters on training and devotes each of the re—
maining chapters to one of the principal categories of
track and field events.

The Summer Camp Guide.

Porter Sargent, 11 Beacon Street, Boston, Massa-
chusetts. $.25.

The sixth annual edition (1941) of The Summer Camp
Guide lists four hundred desirable summer camps and
gives information about many of them.

There is also a new edition of the helpful booklet,
Where to Buy Everything for Summer Camps.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP,

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

MANAGEMENT,
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF
CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912, Of RECREATION, published
monthly at New York, N. Y., Eighth Avenue, 3lst tO 33rd
Streets for October 1, 1941.

STATE OF NEW YORK,
COUNTY OF NEW YORK, ss.

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and county
aforesaid, personally appeared Howard Braucher, who, having
been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the
editor of RECREATION, and that the following is, to the best of
his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership,
management (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the
aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption,
required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 411,
Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse Of this
form, tO wit:

1. That the names .and addresses of the publisher, editor, man-
aging editor, and buSIness managers are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York, N. Y.

NEgitor: Howard Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York,
Managing Editor: Abbie Condit, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

Business Manager: R. J. Schwartz, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and
address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the
names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per
cent or more Of total amount of stock. If not owned by a cor-
poration, the names and addresses of the individual owners must
be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated
concern, its name and address, as well as those of each indi-
vidual member, must be given.)

National Recreation Association,
York, N. Y.

F. W. H. Adams, New York, N. Y.; F. Grcgg Bemis, Boston,
Mass; Mrs. Edward W. Biddle, Carlisle, Pa.; Mrs. Robert Woods
Bliss, Washington, D. C.', Howard Braucher, New York, N. Y.;
Mrs. William Butterworth, Moline, 111.; Henry L. Corbett, Port-
land, Ore.; Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer, Jacksonville, Fla.; F. Trubee
Davison, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.; Harry P. Davison, New
York, N. Y.; Mrs. Thomas A. Edison, West Orange, N. J.;
Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Md.; Robert Grant, 3rd, Jericho, L. I.,
N. Y.; Austin E. Griffiths, Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Norman Har-
rower, Fitchburg, Mass; Mrs. Melville H. Haskell, Tucson, Ariz.;
Mrs. Charles V. Hickox, Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. John D.
Jameson, Sugar Hill, N. H.; Gustavus T. Kirby, New York,
N. Y.; H. McK. Landon, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Charles D.
Lanier, Greenwich, Conn.; Robert Lassiter, Charlotte, N. C.;
Susan M. Lee, Boston, Mass; Otto T. Mallery, Philadelphia, Pa.;
Walter A. May, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Carl E. Milliken, Augusta, Me.;
Mrs. Ogden L. Mills, Woodbury, N. Y.; Mrs. Sigmund Stern,
San Francisco, Calif.; Mrs. James W. Wadsworth, Washington,
D. C.; J. C. Walsh, New York, N. Y.; Frederick M. Warburg,
New York, N. Y.; John G. Winant, Concord, N. H.; Stanley
Woodward, Washington, D. C.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security
holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of
.bonds, mortgages, or Other securities are: (If there are none,
so state.)

None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the
owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not
only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear
upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stock-
holder or security holder appears upon the books of the company
as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the
person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given;
also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracmg
affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and
conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do
not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock
and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner;
and this aiiiant has no reason to believe that any other person.
association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect_m
the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue Of this pub-
lication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherw15e, to
paid subscribers during the six months preceding the date. shown
ab‘i'We) is (This information is required from daily publications
on y.

315 Fourth AvenUe, New

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

Sworn tO and Subscribed before me this 24th day of Septem-

ber, 1941.
[SEAL] MIRIAM S. C. DOCHTERMANN,

Notary Public, Nassau County.
Nassau County Clerk’s NO. 351. Certificate Filed in New York

County. Clerk’s No. 60. Register’s N0. 2D46- My CommiSSiO“
expires March 30, 1942.

