Christmas and the
Spirit of the Recreation Movement

OU CANNOT wisely judge the recreation movement by the number of children on a
playground on a given hour on a given day nor the number of people at a recre—
ation center at nine o'clock at night.

Yet a play leader or a recreation center leader may well be deeply thoughtful-if the
children and adults do not come.

The training up of volunteer recreation leaders for the home, the church, the ser—
vice club, the fraternal orders, the Amerlcan Legion, the school alumni meeting may in
the long run mean more than Just the number who come to the recreation center.

You do not want life bottled up in just one place. Men and women should be
’helped to live wherever they are, in all their natural relationships. Of course here the
'home and the church come first.

You want to help create a spirit of recreation which to some extent pervades the
entire life of the city. In certain smaller communities I believe this has been done.
One can, I believe, almost see and feel the warm human quality of certain communi-
ties long organized for living. '

The individual recreation center is never an end in itself. True the boy likes to
-'know he can come to the swimming pool with other boys of his own kind whenever
he wants to. He likes to know a place will be flooded for safe ice skating in winter
whenever it is possible. He likes to know that a hill will be set aside and protected
for coasting when the snow comes. It is good to have a place where a boy can
whistle, can play the harmonica with other boys, can sing, can join in the orchestra.
A boy likes a place where he is understood. He wants to be with a man who under—
stands him but does not talk too much about it.

More than anything else, however, such a community home is a place from
’which to carry a certain spirit back into all the rest of life.

The recreation movement at its best is closely akin to religion—not a religion
of words, of verbalizations, but of action, of spirit. The recreation center is valuable
insofar as it keeps alive a certain lire within—a religion of joy, of strength, of hardi—
hood, of courage, of comradeship, of being a good sport.

Christmas is the day of all the year, it seems to me, that belongs most to the rec-
,greation movement, the recreation system, the recreation center. On Christmas Day
even adults are not ashamed to feel warmly toward every one else, to wish every one
lgwell, to look human, to have a song in the heart, a light in the eye, almost to let the
feet dance a little bit, to relax and be one’s self, to be joyously active, to feel like a
.lbrother to all.

. Could we not almost say that the purpose of the recreation movement would be
ifulhlled if all the days of the year became Christmas Days——days of deep joy and
tstrength for all?

P

pANUARqum

 

 

 

'«
M.

7.

Photo by Gustav Ander

574

The Days Ahead

f 5 THE YEAR ENDS, with war
; A clouds lowering overseas, two
' things are uppermost in our
minds. The first is that the years
have brought us continuously increasing evidence
‘of the effects of leadership upon the life of a
community. An illustration will make this clear.
During the year, a visitor from a distant univer-
sity came into the city, wishing to study in Chi—
cago the play life of children where they are left
to their own devices, and are free from the influ-
ences of adult control or inspiration. Going even
to sections of the city remote from any play cen-
ter, he found, nevertheless, the marginal effects of
patterns set in those places where leadership is
provided. He found children playing games which
are not traditional and universal among children
everywhere. He inquired where the children
learned these games. Had they come down in the
family life as bequests of the parents from their
own remembered childhood days? In each case,
inquiry traced the origin back to some play center.
The children had observed the game or the activity
11 a visit to some recreation institution, or a visit-
ing friend from some such institution had taught
them the activity. Some influence had radiated
gut. So frequently did this prove to be true that
{he visitor left the city in despair of finding in
hicago a purely spontaneous pattern of play free
from any of the effects of recreation institutions
lere.

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
   
  
  
   

“’hen such evidence points unfailingly to the
‘pread and the persistence of the influences
brought to bear upon the life of a community, it
brings home to us the responsibilities of leader—
ship as well as the accomplishments. ‘

Our in-service training program is one expres-
-;ion of our sense of this responsibility. Since there
5 continuous evidence that leadership does exert
l 1 profound influence, it be—
comes necessary that that lead—
..:rship be constantly pointed
toward higher levels, more ad—
Janced standards. But along
with this matter of standards
lgoes the necessity of assuming
be other responsibility of lead—
:rship, responsibility for antici-

By V. K. BROWN

Director of Recreation
Chicago Park District

The material which appears here was
taken from the Fifth Annual Report
of the Chicago Park District for the
year ending December 3|. I939. Had
Mr. Brown written his report a year
later he would without doubt have
stressed even more emphatically the
importance of recreation services in
the days in which we are now living.

pating and preparing now for the
demands which will be made upon
leadership tomorrow.

If our leaders are to validate our
claims to leadership, we must not only think
through today’s duties; we must also think
ahead to tomorrow’s obligations. We owe that to
the society which employs and supports us. We
must be planning for the needs which are des—
tined to become critical in the approaching future,
as well as for the needs which are implicit in the
present situation. The threat to American security
has become apparent to every citizen of this Re-
public in the new outbreak of war abroad. If we
value our way of life, we must prepare to defend it.

we have been asking ourselves, therefore, what
our duty will be to the citizenship which has en—
trusted us with those responsibilities inherent in
our service to society. Certain things, we think,
will become increasingly important as basic neces—
sities. The cost of those necessities may force us
to forego luxuries, things which are merely pleas-
ant. How can we best adapt our service and our
influence in the American social scene to the
foreseeable needs which may be much closer than
we currently know? Responsible for the gym-
nasiums, the baths, the athletic fields, and games
areas, which are the public estate of our city, we
think that we must immediately adapt our pro-
gram of promotion and use of these facilities to
the demands which may be made upon us in future.

Our Physical Activities Service

The times may call all too soon for virile and
rugged endurance. If we must prove that democ-
racy deserves to survive, manly vigor becomes a
universal need of the first importance. Possibly
society has too much emphasized sport for sport’s
sake. It may have overstressed the thrill and the
enjoyment of participation. Possibly we must now
face sterner realities and
further emphasize condition-
ing the youth of our city to a
harder way of life, a disciplined
way of life, toughening the
sinews and making harder the
fibre of society against the
work ahead. To condition them—
selves for a known exertion,

575

570 THE DAYS AHEAD

athletes train for endurance by building up a re—
serve beyond the expected exertion. Already our
physical activities staff is grappling with the ques
tion as to what we must do to adapt our program
to such new possibilities.

Physical stamina also is the foundation for
nervous stability. Hysteria is a possibility in the
not distant future. It is important that we should
begin now our preparations to meet a war upon
our nerves, such as has been waged before our
eyes overseas. Emotional stability rests upon a
physical reserve.

\Ve need steadiness of nerves to be able to relax,
to be poised, resolute, calm and sensible, to con—
trol our temper, to retain our sense of humor, to
keep alive our tolerance, and to maintain active
faith in the cause of right and justice. We need
nervous reserves to remain sane, confident, clear
headed and courageous. \Ne
need nervous vigor for that
mental repose which keeps us
from becoming so excited
that impulsively we may use
bad judgment. It is when
people are physically and
nervously worn out that they
are most prone to become ir-
ritable, restless, and irra—
tional. Society is close to be—
ing so worn out. Our gener-
ation has already endured to
the breaking point. We have been throtlgh the
World War and the great depression which fol-
lowed it. We have witnessed the crumbling of
world social and economic orders. We have seen
our private means vanish, our national security
threatened. We have borne the unbearable. Losses,
tensions, and anxieties have fallen to our lot. We
need refreshing; we need nervous nourishment.
\Ve must rebuilt our strength, restore our nervous
vitality, if we are to find added endurance for
what still lies ahead. It will be fatal if we crack
up. We must see it through.

A world in transition is hard on its inmates;
they must be toughened to take it, without whim-
pering. Calm nerves will do the trick. Courage
and resolution are insecure without them. They
crumble if not based on nervous stability. The
courage of hysteria cannot be relied on, for the
long pull. While desperation may inspire momen—
tarily, steady fortitude earns enduring security. It
is the stuff of which popular morale is built. Ex—
haustion makes it much more difficult to maintain

"If people are to realize the highest
ideals of democratic livingl recreation
must mean for them opportunity to ex-
perience those satisfactions that come
from fine human relationships, from joy
in play, from appreciation of and par-
ticipation in art. drama. music. litera-
ture. from an understanding of the
world around them. and from the pleas-
ures which arise in the pursuit of some
special interest or hobby."~—-From Physi-
cal Education in the Secondary School.

calm serenity in times of stress. Whatever the
work a person may be called upon to do, he can
do it more productively if his nervous energies
are not so depleted as to make him jittery. To
serve this need, both our physical staff and our.
specialists in other fields are combining for more
effective team work.

Cultural Arts and Nervous Stability

Possibly we have emphasized cultural consider;
ations for the sake of refinement where we must
now consider them more in the light of our needs
for calm and steadiness of purpose, for the ability
to stand up under pressure with steadfastnessi,
Music and the arts, the release of impersonations
in dramatics, absorbing hours in crafts or hobbies,
restful sessions in the sanctuaries of natural
beauty, contact with the soil, and ministering 
the growth of Howers in one’i‘i
garden —all of them havé;
aesthetic values, true. But
possibly by some change 
planning and in progranyl
emphasis we can adapt theng'
to the additional purpose ojl
escape from tension, of re”
building our nervous reservu
and thereby give additiona:
and needed service to one, al
least, of the necessities w:

soon must face.

Laying Foundations for Useful Skills

Our crafts are developing skills. Many of th
activities in which the boys and young men ar
engaged in our parks involve the use of tool; I
They call for skill of hand, as well as for the de
velopment of resourceful creative—mindednesi
They exercise and develop such native inventive
ness as a boy may possess. They accustom hirr—
to thinking realistically and in a straight line, ti
thinking his own way through his own particula:i
and personal problem. The lads who build in 01;":
shops the engines to drive their model planes, the;
model motor boats, or even the new model captix
automobiles, are not only filling with purpose an
meaning hours which might otherwise be id'
hours ; they are coming to grips with actual forcg
and actual substances. They face difficulties whic
are very real indeed, and they cannot escape frozi
the hard laws of the universe. The forces (-
nature with which they deal are constant force.

they are not subject to being cajoled. The bc

THE DAYS AHEAD 577

who makes a performing mech-

anism, whether it be an engine

or a radio, cannot put anything

over on the laws under which
. the forces of the universe oper-
'1te. He can’t cheat in his tests,
rlor curry personal favor. He
ms to meet rigid and implacable
‘:0nditions.

Before long America may
desperately need a generation
)ossessed not only of a vivid
and practical imagination. eager
Emd competent in devising new
ind improved processes and
hroducts. \V e may need also
lisciplined skill of hand to bring
he visualized idea into substan-
lial reality. Perhaps we should
)lZlCC additional emphasis upon
Ilay in terms of early experi-
nce, to lay the foundation of
he mechanical skills which so-
iety will find necessary. \Ve
Lrave been thinking through our
,i-rogram in these terms, also.

Ve consider it as something
llcnandcd of us as leaders and

l . .
{ersons of mfiuence in our con-
".lCt with the youthful life of

111‘ communities.

| Positive Contributions to
National Solidarity

l Finally, the most basic neces-

‘.ty of all confronting us in the
(uture may prove to be the

é-ecessity for national solidarity.

v44
9-3
E
O
3
m
y_‘
0
"f
E.
('D
and}.
O
"I
(D
r—+
:3"
m
B
,..J

   
  
 
  

I;

:t of ideas. It is also a matter
f habits, of attitudes, of everyday relationships.

'7 is a matter of adjustment to the give and take
1' life, between persons equally free in a de-
Etocracy but equally inspired by belief in mutual
‘Jncessions to each other. Its most vulnerable
.)int lies in the fact that it depends upon conh—
‘ 'tnce, confidence in the intents and in the effec-

veness of the ideals of one’s fellow citizens. Pur-
~' tit of approved purposes of life as an accus-
5 Imed practice must be demonstrated before our
’ l'es in order to command such confidence. Ex-
' ltrience, testing and proving the integrity of one’s

 

Courtesy Wisconsin WPA

She is beginning at an early
age to build up the physical
stamina which is the founda-
tion of nervous stability

fellows, is the only way in
which one can learn to trust
those fellows.

\Vhen the doings of other
people remain mysterious, they
are subject to suspicion. Until
one has had frequent occasion
to work with his fellow citizens
and to observe that their motives
are of the same stuff as his own,
he can much more readily be
made the victim of propaganda,
of insinuations directed against
(people with whom he is not
familiar. Those with sinister in-
tent may soon launch a whis-
pering campaign of innuendo
designed to disrupt our nation
into mutually suspicious and an-
tagonistic factions. We must
prepare at once against such
possibilities.

Interpreting Democracy in
Terms of Social Action

Perhaps America has relied
too implicitly on an expectation
that a democratic way of life
will interpret itself, and so en-
dear itself to the participant.
We have trusted that the actual
operation of democratic proc-
esses would make their drama-
tization unnecessary. Our drama
department is now calling this
assumption into question. They
have suggested that henceforth
we select for our stages plays
which have interpreting signifi-
cance rather than plays merely
to amuse an audience. They believe that pag-
eantry, when it talks on subjects in which people
are currently interested, may usefully concern
itself with making clear and thrilling some of
those principles of human freedom, some of those
objectives of human associated efforts to which
mankind has always responded when the times
called for great and fundamental decisions. They
think that we can render yeoman service to the
national cause by graphically presenting in plays
and in spectacles the things men live for, and the
principles and ideals under which men mobilize
for voluntary concerted action.

578 THE DAYS AHEAD

W e are questioning also whether in the social
philosophy of our day there may not have been
too much emphasis lately on the group as a unit,
too little counter-emphasis upon mass action in
larger movements looking toward federated unity.
In park clubs and smaller units we now reflect
with considerable satisfaction that we have never
lost sight of the purpose of continuously federat-
ing individual groups into larger associations. Re-
peatedly such annual reports as this have pointed
out this federating intent of ours. Where once we
promoted individual teams to represent each park,
upon park consolidation we abandoned such teams
of varsity stars in favor of community leagues
where many teams were brought together in a
larger community organization. The community
leagues, in turn, multiplying, have been combined
into city-wide federations where self government
demanded continuously unselfish concession to
reach mutual agreements covering the city or the
sport as a whole. They summoned people to get
together.

We pointed out that softball was so organized.
So was tennis, and archery. So were numerous
other sports. Now we believe that the wisdom of
this course is being demonstrated. It has con—
tributed, we think, something of experience in
working together as groups in the local scene, it
is true, but with a larger sharing spirit of com-
bined devotion to a cause in the general social
picture. Every experience which successfully
proves the possibilities of joint action is an operat-
ing unity of purpose, we think—every undertak-
ing which gives people practice in working to-
gether makes a definite contribution to the security
of a democratic society.

The Dangers of
Disunity

When half of the world
is ruthless, aggressively
determined upon power
and control, the other
half can remain humane
only if it be equally de-
termined, equally armed
spiritually, equally pro-
vided with material and
mechanical resources of
defense. But in two es~
sentials the peaceful half
of mankind must go be-
yond equality. It must

RETURNS TO THE TAXPAYER

Leadership which has proved that it does influ-
ence the city's lite and is sensitive to its needs.

Promotion of programs of physical activity
which will conserve health and harden resistance.

and will introduce habits of life that contribute to
nervous stability. safeguarding against despair.

Stimulation of interest in play or hobbies that
develop skill of hand. accuracy and proticiency in
the use of tools. as well as practical experience
in thinking originally in solving problems.

Interpretation of American ideals. of the Ameri-
can way ot life. of our system of tree enterprise
not in abstract words but in intimate terms which
make patriotism and loyalty a personal attitude.

Consolidation of diverse social groups into
compact. loyal solidarity that we may render secure
those unities of purpose which underlie democracy.

excel in alert watchfulness, since it only is in dan-
ger of attack. It must excel also in devotion to
unity, since its survival depends on a voluntary
union of free men to overmatch onslaught at un—
guarded moments by hordes whose loyalties are
commandeered and so are subject to no fluctuat-
ing ebb.

Alert and united national resolution therefore
becomes our primary necessity. We must sleeg
lightly, with the arms of united purpose within
instant reach against attack. The attack may 
very subtle. . . . Artfully the fuses may be laid tq"
fire class” hatreds, economic rivalries, interracial
enmities, sectional jealousies. Detonating, they
will be planned to blow us apart as fragmenti
that flame into internal revolution. Such trials as
these may lie ahead. Our democracy may be put
to the test to prove Whether it even deserves tq
survive. And we may cry out then for concrett

proofs that it is so deserving.

An Example of Community Solidarity

One such .proof has been forthcoming this yea;
in the community surrounding Davis Square
Realized there in factual reality is a developmeri
which has long been dreamed. Following Ward’l
experiment in Rochester, as the old reports of tth
former South Park Commissioners testify, it
1914 we sought to unite the people of our par]
communities in organizations devoted to the com
mon welfare. Those organizations were planner
to implement and make effective the universal de
sire of citizens to improved conditions in thei
home neighborhoods. We called them communit‘

councils. Membership was chosen to represen
community business it:

terests, the churche:
schools, labor, raciz
groups, social and se}
vice clubs, every force
neighborhood life. It wél
a good idea. It has rt:
mained a good idea. Bt‘l
the councils survived fc
only a brief month (
two. They disappearel
They have been starts
elsewhere, repeated]?
usually to suffer the san:
fate. We had come tob:
lieve that it was wiser;
organize the people in.
community only for brii

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  

THE DAYS AHEAD 579

scampaigns in support of single and specific pur-
I‘poses. When our park supervisor in Davis Square
’fproposed effecting a general community organiza-
’ ;tion, we were sympathetic but not unduly hope-
ful of success. We had been through that experi-

l fence too many times to be very optimistic.
But “back of the yards” the attempt has moved
lovelly. It is unique in our experience. It did not
'lppoint; instead it enlisted membership by feder—
tting already existing organizations of the com-
nunity. It did not go solely to the so—called lead—
:rs of the district; it went to the people them—
u ;elves. It became a people’s movement. It illus-
rates, we think, a further step in bringing into
ocial combination a whole cominUnity, organized
n groups to pursue a wide variety of group pur—
lroses. Federating first the young people’s clubs
.‘If the community, the development has grown be-
hause other community organizations have joined
[,3 a body to make it a truly comprehensive coun-
"lil. Lately the local business men’s association,
the Chamber of Commerce, joined the council as
unit. So has the American Legion Post. The
hurches were among the first to get into the
ommunity movement. Nationalistic groups fol—

:pwed. Presently labor, both C. I. O. and A. F. of
l .., joined in to lend support. Here is an example
1 f the church, labor, business, youth, and social
-'rganizations uniting more effectively to pool their
fforts for a happier community life. They were
. roups originally. But through park leadership
ieir members have developed a social conscious-
ess which became community-wide in its scope.
Cow they are responding to a super—group con-
'.:_pt, the concept of the entire community. The
unrger hopefulness of outlook, the larger sense of
Lpighborhood fraternity is markedly revitalizing
")th individual and community outlook.
As in other American neighborhoods, the long
lnsion of the dark days through which we have
l passed had its effect there in depression Of
:iirit no less than in economic frustration. But
om that sense of fear and distrust a reaction has
llt in since the community as a whole began work-
:ig together to solve its common problems. There
 a lighthearted confidence, a community opti—
.lism, a refreshing sense of surmounting the
j!.scouraging outlook, expressed in their faces and
'lliitudes no less than in their slogan, “We, the
| .ople, will work out our own destiny.” It is a re-
‘ val of faith in the future, with full recognition that
lurk is to be done,-problems are to be met, dif-

lulties are to be overcome. Notwithstanding this,

 

l

 

 

3

they face the future unafraid. They have come
into a proved and tested assurance that by united
pulling together, these things can be accomplished.
In their social gatherings, their athletic contests,
their arts and crafts, their music and dramatics,
they still seek recreational satisfaction. But in
addition they have newly discovered that out of
these interests there has come insight deeper than
mere acquaintance. They have discovered unity
of purpose, developing into team play, in the whole
social scene. As they found their neighbors inter-
ested in the same purposes to which they them-
selves were devoted, a mutual understanding
arose. Suspicion? were replaced in an almost
startled surprise by mutual confidence in each
other. Cultural heritages remained no less precious.
But they became treasures to be proudly shared,
not jealously hoarded. Interracial relations lost
that cold reserve which has long persisted, despite
the admission that all are equal partners in our
great American enterprise. That we man the same
ship and share the same destiny has long been
known. But there have been some lingering mis-
givings about granting complete trust even to fol—
low shipmates where ancestral hostilities persist—
ing, in memory, at least, have cried caution.

The allaying of these suspicions is the more
significant in its timing at this disturbed moment,
when friends and relatives back in the former
homelands are plunged again into a revival of age
old conflicts. Against that demonstration that the
sons of ancient enemies apparently can never
safely be trusted, a sudden new development of
mutual trust here has emphasized the magic. that
lies peculiarly in America, working its wonders
through our American way of life. \Vhen results
of that way of life become so apparent, that way
of life translates itself into something offering
personal satisfactions, something sufficiently pre-
cious to be worth devotion. And the way of ex—
pressing that devotion becames simple and under—
standable—it is merely actively living, playing, and
working together. It pays dividends in a coin that
is familiar currency. It is coin of daily life. When
for example, among numerous other accomplish-
ments, over a thousand of their youth have been
placed in jobs and on income before the year
ended as a result of the community council effort
on their behalf, democracy ceased to be a matter
of abstract words. It became a living force. They
had tried it in the concrete. In startled conviction
they now look into each other’s eyes and exclaim,
“Listen! Give it a chance and it actually works!”

What They Say About Recreation

“ ECREATION is the counterpoise to work. The
medical profession, psychologists, and edu-
cators have long recognized the necessity

for balancing work with leisure. The most civil-
ized and the most savage nations have, either con-
sciously or instinctively, obeyed the natural law
for a balance in the routine of day-to—day living by
providing the means for individual and mass rec-
reation.”———Beruard Smith in Town Building.

“We sometimes think our freedoms are the re-
sult of political institutions. In a larger sense they
are the creators of free public institutions. The
maintenance of the democratic way of life depends
on the way we enjoy these freedoms.”—David H.
Moskowitz, Board of Education, New York City.

“A play leader who perfunctorily carries on ac—
tivities and guards his playground against physical
mishap has a job. The leader who adds skill and
technique to these duties creates a profession, but
he who crowns his profession with consecration and
devotion performs a mission, and the children,
youths, and adults who come to him for play and
sport carry away deeper values and greater riches

than the mere memory of a happy day.”-———From
the Play Leaders’ Guide, Milwaukee.

“Assembly singing is the simplest and most di-
rect musical approach to the hearts of people and
assures the leader that appreciation of music is
inborn. So, listeners, sing! Singers, keep on sing-
ing! For singing is a universal medium of music,
and experience which leads to artistic growth.”—

A. E. l/Vinship.

“The present emergency makes it the more im-
portant that we go forward in all ways needed to
assure our children decent homes, nourishing food.
health services and medical care, schooling that
prepares for citizenship, wholesome recreation,
protection against child labor.” — Katharine F.
Leuroot.

“Happiness lies in becoming, never in being—-
in achieving a continuous growth toward deep

personal satisfactions and social usefulness.”—
Mdlmlm 5. MacLeau.

580

“Equality of opportunity in work, play, love,
worship, and service—it is in recreation in these,
areas that equality of opportunity is simplest and;
richest in by-products for human happiness.”—-':*
I. W. Faust in National Parent-Teacher. 1'

l
l
i
I

“As a way of living democracy may be taughg
in recreation. In recreation the essential dignity
and worth of the individual is recognized. He is;
accorded a place commensurate with his capacityJ
and his willingness to serve. His success is dea
termined by his ability to cooperate with others;
As an individual he may choose his recreation, the.
time he devotes to it, and his companions; and yet:
full enjoyment of his recreation requires submisbi
sion to collective choices and to self—imposed laws;
This is the essence of democracy.” — Georgi“
H jelte in Administration of Public Recreation

“The prophet may be sure of this: Beneath una
certainty there lies abiding certainty. Time bringzl
men back to the ancient truths and the changes arc 1
seen to be not in fundamentals but in the outwarg '
aspect of things. The habit of perspective is hark
to acquire in our world of immediate pressures,
but it deserves cultivation.”——]oy Elmer M organ

  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  

“That individual is not liberally educated wh:
possesses no play skills. It is significant that Eng
land, to whom we have looked for many of 01;
educational procedures, lists an individual’s holj
bies and recreations with his biography in th0}
Who. It is also significant that qualification ret
ords for Rhodes Scholars provide for the listing.
of the sport or sports engaged in by the potentié.i
scholar along with his other attributes.”——Arml
Schley Duggan in Journal of Health and Physics-f

Education. .

“We are banded together for the common put
pose of making our communities better throng
leisure time activities. We are working togethe‘
to bring out the highest potentialities of our yout‘
to give it a finer spiritual aspect. We know thj
there is no real democracy unless based upon 
spiritual. After all, that is what America is r.
solved to preserve.”-——Judge John P. McGoorty.

 STROLOGISTS claim that
A most people born in
February are “destined
. fame, prominence and
‘Elrtune? Take a look at the
111168 of those who celebrate
heir birthdays in the second

I

‘lonth and notice the long list of already-famous

(mericans. Now while you have the list at hand,
I lay not' plan a birthday party in honor of these
 1‘ebruaryites”? You may gain a little February

Fame in February

You will search in vain for a
hatchet, a heart, or a cherry
tree in this party, but you
will enioy the novelty of it!

I me for yourself if you can add something new 1

. l the overworked party calendar of St. Valentine,
’ashington, and Lincoln celebrations. The for-
:tten men and women of February deserve some

ucognition and your friends will appreciate a
.ange from hearts and hatchets.
It will be a simple matter to tear down the
rriers of Time and let your “historical” guests
ve a one night get—together.
are than twenty-five famous Americans who
‘ere born in February, each guest may take the

Since there are

Do

ilrt of a celebrity unless the party is a large one,

'KOOOVOxUIanmA-hoo

Guests
Victor Herbert
Horace Greeley
Elizabeth Blackwell
Sidney Lanier
Mark Hopkins
Roger Williams
Dwight Moody
Jebulon Pike
James Otis
Aaron Burr

Millard Fillmore
General Sherman

Wm. Henry Harrison 27
Invitation booklets are made from construction

 

and in that event, some peo-
ple may come as less famous
guests or each historical char-
acter can be represented by
two people. Since there is a
scarcity of famous February
women, some of the girls can

come as men. Here is a suggested guest list with
birth dates. You may invite more or fewer per-

sons as you wish:
Feb.

Feb. Guests

11 Thomas Edison

11 Daniel Boone

12 Abraham Lincoln

12 Cotton Mather

15 Cyrus McCormick

15 Susan B. Anthony

15 Elihu Root

16 C01. Henry Wattcrson
20 Joseph Jefferson

22 George Washington
22 James Russell Lowell
26 Wm. Cody (Buffalo Bill)
Henry W. Longfellow

581

paper with a February calendar drawn or pasted
on the cover and the date of the birthday party
circled with colored crayon. Appropriate covers
can also be made with small prints of February
horoscopes. The invitation printed inside will in-
form the guest that he is to be a famous guest of
honor at your February birthday party. No cos-
tumes are required and the only password is a
general knowledge of “his own" life and times.

Silhouettes will make appropriate decorations
for this collective birthday party. If possible
choose familiar outlines—Washington, Lincoln,
Daniel Boone, Buffalo Bill. Draw the figure on a
large sheet of heavy white wrapping paper, fill in
with black paint, and mount on large sheets of
cardboard. \Vhen placed against the wall the
hgures stand out sharply if spotlights or lamps are
put behind them. Smaller silhouettes of articles
associated with your “guests” may also be used.
Everyone will recognize the significance of a
hatchet, stovepipe hat, or coonskin cap.

Introductions. As each person arrives warn him
to keep his own “identity” a secret, but tell him
you want to introduce him to some of the other
guests. \Vhen he has been given a piece of paper
and pencil, escort him to a large table on which a
birthday exhibit has been laid out in advance.
Each exhibit is numbered and the guest is to write
opposite the appropriate number the name of the
famous Feerary person suggested by the object.
Thus, a copy of Daddy Long Legs or a picture of
a tall man may be Longfellow; an electric light
may represent Edison. Other possibilities are:

Buffalo nickel on a dollar bill Buffalo Bill
Copy of Gettysburg address without title Lincoln
Silver dollar Washington
Small root Elihu Root
Burr or cockel Aaron Burr

Coonskin cap or tail Daniel Boone
Picture of mountain peak Pike
Word “marching” written on slip of paper

and pushed through slit in map of Georgia Sherman

Birthday Calendar. While some of the early
guests are busy with the exhibit let others begin
on the calendar. Hang on the wall a large calendar
for February, 1941. Give each player a small
square of paper on which is written the date of the
month in which “he” was born (Washington, 22;
Longfellow, 27). Blindfold each one and let him
try to pin his date where it belongs on the calen-
rlar. Give them a brief time in which to study
the February calendar.

1." FAME 1N FEBRUARY

Portrait Puzzles. If it is possible to secure pic-
tures of some of the better known characters
whose birthdays you are celebrating, it will be
fun to guess their names. Mount the pictures on
cardboard and number them. Let early guests
wander around the room trying to connect the,
right names with the right pictures.

Who Am I? Now that all the guests have 31'?
rived you are ready to begin the birthday games.
Since none of our heroes have come in costume 
will be difficult for them to recognize one another}
Give them a chance to guess each other’s name,
On a sheet of paper each person lists the numbers
8 to I, counting backwards. Opposite each num;
ber he will write a short statement describing
himself. The first statement will be very general
and may apply to more than one individual, but
as the list continues the description becomes more
definite and by the time sentence No. I is written,
everyone,should be able to guess his identity;
Thus Mr. Lincoln may write:

8. I was president of the United States

7. I was vitally interested in the common people.
6. They called me an idealist. '

5. I was a lawyer.

4. I was a persevering student.

3. Mine was a war administration.

2. I was a Republican.

1. I issued the Emancipation Proclamation.

When all have finished their stories, let eacl
read his statements aloud in turn. Meanwhile th¢
guests have written on another sheet of paper 2
list from 8 to I for each speaker. As each Chan
acter reads his story the players write his “name?
opposite the sentence number at which they dis.
cover his identity. ThUS if a player recognize:
President Lincoln after the fourth statement ht
will receive a score of 5; if he does not get th‘
name until the seventh statement, his score fo
Lincoln will be only 2. The scores are added to
gether when the last person has given his auto,
biography and the person with the highest scor:
wms.

  
  
 
 
 
    
  
    
   

Who Are You? Now that the guests recogniz
each other it may be a good idea to let them ge'i
acquainted. Roger Williams and Abe Lincol:
probably have many things in common, and n
doubt Buffalo Bill and Daniel Boone would wel
come an opportunity to swap stories! Ask you
guests to number off by twos and then form tw
circles, one inside the other. The outer circl-
begins to march around counterclockwise whil
the inner circle goes in the opposite direction. A

FAA/[E IN FEBRUARY 583

‘ a given signal guests in the two circles turn and
face each other and each pair immediately starts a
.conversation. For instance, Susan B. Anthony
may ask Dan Boone how comfortable his fur hat
is, or President Fillmore will discuss his adminis-
tration with President Harrison.

' If you think guests will have difficulty in re-
membering each other’s historical identity, cards

I with names may be pinned to suit or dress. The
:Onversations continue until the signal is given,

t when all say “good—bye” and start marching again

‘ .intil another halt is called and another.conversa-

0 :ion begins. After a while you may reverse the

i iirection of the circles or have half of each circle

. - :xchange places.

Colonial Newspaper. The early American guests
’ht your party will recognize this word—of—mouth
"Iewspaper. All the players are seated in a circle
1nd one is chosen “Town Crier.” He leans Over
J'llld whispers a bit of colonial news to the person
'ltt his left. Any appropriate statement will do. It
lnay be° “Have you heard about the tea they
ilumped in Boston Harbor ?” or “Paul Revere’s
horse broke his leg between Lexington and Con-
tord.” Each person to whom the news is told
. ,Feans over and whispers it to the person next to
t iim. NO repetition or restatement is permitted,
-ach person giving the message only once to his
Ieighbor. The last player states aloud the news
ans he heard it. The difference between this news
.lind the news which the Town Crier originally
,ave is usually amazing!

 

 

 

| This game can be made into a relay by arrang-
‘ 11g your guests in two or more rows. A town
trier is chosen for each side. The hostess or
Header writes the news on two slips of paper and
hands one to each crier. At. a signal the sentence
:5 passed from player to player by whisper. The
Inst player in each row runs back to the host and

lvhispers the news. The team whose statement is

 

ll'nost nearly correct wins. In a tie, the team tin«
1lshing first wins.

War Between the States. Your friends from the
:ixties will find something reminiscent in this
battle Of the blue and gray. Even grave “Mr.
‘l..incoln” will enjoy taking part. Players may draw
llips to form a northern and southern army sta—
(ioned on opposite sides of the room. Toss 11p a
by balloon in the center of the room. The two
teams rush for it and attempt to bat the balloon
' lo the other team’s wall. The army which suc—
reeds in causing the balloon to hit the opposite

 

 

wall wins the first battle. Extra balloons will be
needed if this mock war lasts very long. (This
game will depend on size and type of room in
which it is played.)

Telegrams. Put in a bowl the historical name of
each person present. Now each one is torwrite a
telegram to the person whose name he picked,
beginning every word in the telegram with a letter
from his own name. For instance, if Cotton
Mather is writing to George Washington he will
have twelve words in his message and the words
must begin with c—o—T—T—O-N-M-A-T-H—E-R. The
telegram should have some reference either to
the sender or the ‘receiver. Mr. Mather’s telegram
may read:

MR. GEORGE WASHINGTON

MOUNT VERNON

VIRGINIA

DEAR GEORGE,

CONGRATULATIONS 0N TRIUMPH. THIS OCCA-

SION NEEDS MORE ADVOCATES. TREMENDOUSLY

HAPPY. EDIBLE REFRESHMENTS.
MATHER

February Quiz. Give your guests a February
“false—true” quiz and see how much they know
about the shortest month in the year and some of

its famous people.

1. Groundhog Day is the twelfth of the month. (F)

2. Massachusetts ratified the constitution in February. (T)

. Four presidents were born in February. (T)

Valentine was an Old English matchmaker. (F)

February once had 29 days every year. (T) ‘

Daniel Boone rode the Pony Express. (F)

Susan B. Anthony fought for temperance. (T)

Wm. Henry Harrison was assassinated. (F)

9. Wm. T. Sherman was a general in the Union Army.
(T)

10. Roger Williams was governor of Massachusetts. (F)

WNQMPW

How Many Words? Seat your guests and let
them write words made up of the letters in
FEBRUARY. When the time is up let the person
with the longest list read his aloud, with others
giving their additions when he is finished. If
everyone in the room has a word no credit is
given, since each word is credited only with the
number of people in the room who do not have
that word. Thus if everyone has the word “rare”
no one gains credit; if six people do not have
“berry” each person having the word gets six
credits. The highest score wins. Here are a few
of the possible words: fare, bare, bear, rare, berry,
ferry, far, buy, ray, err, rye, bury, aye, bray, bye,
fray. ‘

Pony Express. Buffalo Bill Will consider his
birthday well celebrated if you include a pony

584 FAME 1v FEBRUARY

express race. Since this is to be a relay, set up two
courses for the mail«carriers, possibly along op-
posite sides of a large room. Each team lines up
at one end of its course. Being the first'station
this is known as St. Joseph, Missouri, while the
opposite end of the course is Sacramento, Cah-
fornia. At a signal from the leader the first “rider”
from each team comes forward and pulls over his
ankles a 1%” rubber band cut from the inner
tube of an automobile tire. He then sets out with
the mail (a letter), shuffles to Sacramento and
back to St. Joseph. He must not hop. Once back
in St. Joseph he removes the rubber “horse” and
gives it to the next “rider” on his team. Each one
carries the mail in turn and when the last one has
completed his trip the mail is handed over to the
leader. The first team to come through wins.

Daniel Boone Race. The famous pioneer from
Kentucky is known for his long, dangerous trips
through the back woods. Remembering the Indian
raids, mountain passes, and other early American
inconveniences, it will be most appropriate to plan
your obstacle race in his honor. Map out the
course of the trip around a large room. Put many
obstacles in the way of the racers. A large card-
board box, a stool, some books, a paper lake (of
old newspapers), a piece of cord for a snake, a
feather pillow (treacherous Indian), and others.
Give the first traveler a foot ruler with a large
cork. He must put the cork on one end of the
ruler and carry it by the other end along the trail,
stepping over books and Indians, in and out of the
box and around the lake and snake without
dropping the cork. If he does drop it, he turns
back without reaching his destination. Those who
complete the trip safely must make a return trip
with corks balanced on two rulers, one in each
hand.

Copper Puzzle. Since Mr. Lincoln is honored
at your party supply the guests with
Lincoln pennies and see how much they
know about their country’s coins. Ask
them to find on the penny:

A small animal hare (hair)

A snake copperhead

A messenger one sent (cent)
A flower tulips (two lips)
Part of corn ear

Edge of a hill brow

A country United States

A fruit date

A part of a river mouth

A beverage tea (T)

 

Yourself I (eye)
A building temple
An emblem of victory wreath
What a ship sails on sea (C)
Two kinds of votes ayes, noes
Impudence cheek
Slang for hat lid

A student pupil
Result of victory won

Strokes of whip lashes (eyelashes) I

Who's Who? Since variety is the spice of life
let your guests change their names for a littler.
while. Hang on the back of each person a placard;
on which is printed the name of some prominent,
American who was not born in February. Every-i;
one can see the placard but the person on whose;
back it hangs. He can only discover his own}
identity by the questions others ask him. These
questions should pertain to the character, but not]
too specifically. For instance, people may ask}
“Anne Lindbergh” : “Do you mind being up in the:
air so much?” or “Did you enjoy your trip to thd.‘
Orient?” Guests wander about. the room asking,‘
questions until someone guesses his own identityi;

United States. Why not test your all—American.
guests on their geography? Colonial people who a
have been following more recent American his-‘l
tory may surprise you with their knowledge of the;
United States. Give them a list of questions
which can be answered by the abbreviations of;
some of the states.

What is the cleanest state? \Vash.

The most egotistical state? Me.

Which state cures the sick? Md.

Which state needs a doctor? Ill.

What is done to grass? Mo.

What is a decade? Tenn.

Which is the happiest state? Ga.

The most religious state? Mass.

Which state saved Noah? Ark.

\Vhat state is a grain? R. I.
Which is the parent state? Pa. .
Which studies carefully? Conn. l
What is raw metal? Ore. 

What is as good as a mile? Miss. I

Guess the Nation. Many of our guests
lived in the United States when it could
scarcely be called a nation, but whether
they were alive in 1770 or 1880 they.

will all be interested in this nation

game. Give them a list of phrases

and ask them to write down the
(Continued on page 629)

A Park Dedicated to Naturalists

, LOVELY BIT of natural woodland, known as
*'_ Cheesequake State Park, was formally
 opened by New Jersey last summer. Unlike
"other parks in the State, it is a
* serene and secluded Spot
-, drenched with the woodsy fra—
i grance of most of the familiar

American trees and with the
[tang of sea breezes—a place of
a rest and peace where birds sing
' all day long. The park revels
in ferns, flowers and shrubs, in-
,lzluding many rare and gorgeous
‘ varieties. It is chiefly virgin
“forest, untouched by human

:mand.

'1 Cheesequake Park, which was

.':onstructed by WPA, contains

“[465 acres. It has no beachfront,

but it lies back of and overlooks

“Raritan Bay between Morgan

i1nd Lawrence Harbor, Middlesex County. It
:ises from sea level to an altitude of 120 feet in

ess than a mile.

In designing the park the engineers continually
kept in mind the fact that the restful atmosphere
Ivould best be maintained by winding roads which
:lvould prevent speeding, and at the same time
i iterally compel visitors to enjoy the passmg pano-
jf'ama of flowing trees and shrubs. Another idea
Mn slowing down traffic was to protect the wild
life of the area. Altogether, four miles of roads

' and seven miles of trails were built.

Still another objective was to make the park
lserve as a sort of horticultural laboratory in which
botanists could study and experiment with plant
ife of all types. Already the famed Towrey Bo-
anical Club under the leadership of Dr. John A.
Small of Rutgers University has made four held

c'urveys in the park.

1 Cheesequake State Park has also proved to be
r treasure trove to naturalists because of its loca—
ion along the terminal moraine, the narrow strip
'eft in the wake of the glaciers which stretched
lrom Perth Amboy to Pennsylvania. This moraine
more or less marks the dividing line between
Northern and Southern hardwood trees. Both
l'pecies are found in the park.

By R. S. FENDRICK

A park which will supply botanists
with a laboratory for their research

 

Courtesy Work Project: Administration

For the convenience of picnickers at Cheesequake
Park. seventy stone fireplaces have been provided

Scrub oak that dominates the pine barrens of
South Jersey is also found in the park, as are
many other species including black, white, red,
scarlet, or Spanish, pin and chestnut oaks.

A number of botanists have suggested that
Nature is conducting an experiment of its own in
an effort to revive the chestnuts that were ruined
by blight some years ago. Since the WPA crews
started working in the park, chestnut trees were
found growing from the stumps of trees killed by
the drought. One of these coppice chestnuts at-
tained a thickness of three inches and a height of
twenty feet before succumbing. One that was
blooming two years ago and produced a few nuts
has since died, but from its stump fresh shoots
have appeared, as though Nature is struggling to

immunize this species of tree against blight and
restore it to its glory.

This is typical of the open laboratory studies
being made in the park by experts from local hor-
ticultural establishments.

(Continued on page 630)

Planning the Community School

UCH HAS BEEN written
M about the wider use of
the school plant and
many suggestions have been
made as to ways of adapting
school buildings for commu—
nity use. It has generally
been assumed, however, that
schools should be planned primarily to serve the
varied requirements of the day school curriculum
and that any other uses were secondary, if not in—
cidental. The authors of Planning the C ommzmity
School make it clear that they hold a different view
by stating that present-day planning “stresses the
development of school houses which are not inci-
dentally planned or only partially planned f0r
community use but are as fully devoted to this
purpose'as anticipation of needs can make pos-
sible.”

A basic theme running throughout the volume
is the belief of the authors that the “development
of community schools in which adults as well as
children frequently work side by side will help
greatly in the advancement of American democra—
tic living.” Another major thesis is that the school
is particularly fitted to extend to young people and
adults as well as to children opportunities “for
study and practice in all realms of the arts, sci-
ences, and group activities affecting community
life.” At the same time it is pointed out that fa—
cilities and programs must be developed to meet
the particular needs of the individual community
and that standardization in planning must there-
fore be avoided. That community needs and in-
terests merit equal consideration with school cur-
riculum requirements in school plant planning is
repeatedly emphasized. “The design of units of a
school plant must be conceived in terms of the
sum total of the life activities of the people in the
community.”

Most of the volume'is devoted to a careful con-
sideration of the functions and design of special
features of the community school. It contains a
wealth of technical information as to the planning
and equipment of specific units, which merits
thorough study not only by architects and school
administrators but by all who are concerned with
leisure-time programs for youth and adults. Even
though emphasis is laid .upon planning for com-

586

This statement is based on the recently
published volume. Planning the Com-
munity School, written by N. L. En-
gelhardt and N. L. Engelharclt. Jr.I pub- '
Iished by the American Book Company.
New York City. Recreation workers. as
well as school administrators,will find this
book of interest to them in their planning.

tions to be served by the community school build-

munity use, the authors con-
tinually call attention to the
relationship between day
school and community needs
and to the practical methods?
of meeting them. Floor plans;
and sketches afford examples
of good design and illustrate:
principles indicated in the text. Specific arrange-i
meets that have proved satisfactory in designing;
various units of the community school are de-fl
scribed; desirable dimensions for various units are;
set forth; and essential items of equipment and)
furniture are suggested. 

'The auditorium, its design, equipment, and,»
auxiliary work spaces, is treated in the greatest.
detail and this chapter should afford a useful guide;
in the planning of a little theater or auditorium;
regardless of its location. The discussion of ins;-
door game spaces is less adequatebut the chap-j.
ters dealing with facilities for music groups andi'
workshops for the arts and crafts are particularly,l
helpful. Other chapters outline the possibilities of |
developing units such as home living laboratories, l
which are infrequently included in school plantsl
today but which merit a place in the community
school of the future.

In view of the authors’ conception of the func-

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

ing one is not surprised to find the statement that
the purpose of the school grounds is that of “pro—
viding play and recreational areas for the use of
all the people during and after school hours, on
week ends, holidays, and in summer vacation-
time.” The conclusion logically follows that ex-.
pansive areas will be needed————in the authors'.5
opinion “the most desirable community school sitesl
range from 25 to 100 acres.” This conception of.
a school site appears more revolutionary and more
improbable of general acceptance or wide applica-
tion than the type of community school building
SUggested in the volume. This may be due in part
to the fact that it differs so wider from the com:
mon conception of the school site but also because
in many cities provision of certain recreation fa:
cilities and features proposed for the communit)
school grounds is considered a function of a muj

nicipal agency such as a park or recreation departL
(Continued on page 630) l

Recreational Criteria

ECREATION programs may
be initiated and consum—
mated either by the in—

' lividual, the home, the school,

he church, or by the com-
nunity; but whatever the
mm of origin or the cen-

er of interest may be, one
hing is evident: the meas-
lre of its success will be determined by the basic
triteria upon which the entire undertaking rests.

It is the pUrpose of this article to develop a set

If standards by which everyone—the layman and
he professional worker alike——might evaluate the
rotential effectiveness of his own leisure-time

. irogram. If the sponsors of recreation would
- rave it produce the most beneficial and permanent
zesults, they must be careful to avoid the follow-

ng dangers :

Some Danger Points

l

Narrow Specialization. Going to seed on an)-
. hing is a stultifying experience; its inevitable
rutcome is monotony and a cessation of growth.

f one isolates a type of recreational experience
.nd concentrates upon it to the exclusion of all
ruther possible areas of enjoyment, he not only
‘ ails to develop the fullness of his own personality
ut also restricts his sphere of influence upon the
ives of others.

For the individual, the home, the church, the
chool, the community—whatever the agency—to
egmentize a leisure-time activity and emphasize
it at the expense of other equally profitable ex-
Jeriences will result in certain recreational hara-
‘ziri. On the other hand, a program character-

‘lzed by intelligent variegation is one destined to
"mate interest and meet the needs of different
-;roupings.

 

Deliberate Segregation. Community recreation
programs are interested in the development of
: iarmonious relationships among the heterogenous
'lements of diverse social groupings. It is hoped
hat such an endeavor will promote amity and
.rommunal solidification. Cliques are an anathema
lo the achievement of such goals.

Recreational isolation is tantamount to group
.‘nbreeding——a thing just as undesirable in the

Ten dangers to be avoided
by the recreation worker tion. Inasmuch as commu—
who would achieve success

By DWIGHT D. W. DAVIS, Ph. D.
Eastern Oregon College of Education

realm of leisure as it is in the
field of biological reproduc-

nity recreation has pledged
itself to a policy of inclusion,
rather than one of exclu-
sion, we need to remem-
ber that socialization is
hastened through the proc—
ess of interaction, and the more diverse the con-
tacts the more complete becomes the process of
assimilation. The goal is recreational amalgama-
tion, not segregation.

Regimentation. Commercialized recreation in-
stitutions seek to standardize the leisure—time offer-
ing and dispense it on a large scale production
basis. Adherence to such a procedure results in
greater profits for the vested interests, but does
nothing to stimulate the creative urge lying dor-
mant in most people.

Exploitation for profits rather than education
for service, mechanized routine rather than spon— '
taneous variety, mass hypnotism rather than in—
dividual stimulation, stagnation rather than cre—
ation, ennui rather than animation—these are the
inevitable outcomes of commercialization in the
field of leisure.

The most desirable recreation activities are
those which place the main emphasis on persons,
not programs, and which stress activities and pro-
mote them not for their own sake alone but be-
cause of what they will do to individuals.

From this point of view recreation cannot be
regarded as a synonym for entertainment; certainly
recreation leaders ought not regard themselves as
amusement peddlers. Their responsibility is to
devote the bulk of their time to inculcating rec-
reational desires upon the higher levels. This
cannot be achieved by giving detailed instruction
to the person with leisure, hoping thereby to
mould him to a common pattern; if it comes at
all it will be because someone has trained him to
avoid the dangers of regimentation and to evaluate
his choices with care.

Shifting Responsibility. Little need be said about
this danger by which is meant the American habit
of “passing the buck.” Any undertaking, to be
successful, must have someone in whose hands is
placed the responsibility for decisive action, other-

587

588 RECREATIONAL CRITERIA

wise progresswe movement is stalemated. The
intelligent leader parcels out specific jobs and
holds definite persons responsible for their dis—
charge, it is true, but at the same time he ’does not
shift to a minor those responsibilities which, be—
cause of his position, he ought to carry himself.

Everyone of us ought to accept the challenge to
become a leader in recreation.

Deadening Monotony. We’d soon be ready to
resort to violence if we had to listen for long to
the steady see-sawing of the violin bow on the
open “A” string.

Recreation falls in the same category; it ceases
to be “re—creative” when it becomes monotonous
to us. The challenge which we formerly found in
the activity has vanished and it becomes empty
and meaningless. The inevitable concomitant of
recreational monotony is boredom—the very
thing which a leisure-time pursuit seeks to fore—

stall.

The answer is simple: both community and
individual recreation programs must recognize the
desirability of meaningful variety. This is not in—
tended to imply that we embrace every jitterbug
innovation that comes along, but it does suggest
the thought that the holding power of any pro-
gram can be strengthened and lengthened if the
leadership back of it seeks to inculcate a little of
the “spice of life.”

Indifference to Preparation. Everyone who has
had anything to do with the social activities of
people, of whatever age, knows that indifference
to preparation will wreck a social program faster
than any other one element.

Recreation leaders must accept the Boy Scout
watchword, “Be Prepared.” Those who do will
find that their programs are starting on time and
terminating psychologically; that they are moving
freely among the group, radiating enthusiasm in—
stead of cold shouldering everything; that their

DO THESE

l. Diversify

2. Assimilate

3. Encourage originality
4. Assume responsibility
5. Stimulate variety

6. Be prepared:

a. Be prompt
b. Terminate psychologically
c. Radiate enthusiasm
d. Relax
7. Share the load
8. Simplify
9. Conform intelligently

10. Affirm . Negation

AVOID THESE

. Narrow specialization

. Deliberate segregation

. Regimentation

. Shifting responsibility

. Monotony

. Indifference to preparation
a. Late starts
b. “Petering out”
c. Cold shouldering everything
d. Tension

. “Napoleonism”

. Top heavy machinery

. Ignoring the folkways

 

whole tonal feeling is one of relaxation rather
than one of tension; and finally that they have
participated in the direction of a really worth-
while human experience rather than having con-
tributed to a first class flop.

"Napoleonism." “Napoleonism,” as a recrea—g
tional concept, carries with it the idea of indi4
vidual dominance—a one—man show.

Any leader in the field of recreation is predes-;
tined to certain defeat if he thinks more of him—,
self than he does of the group with which he;
works. It is his function to discover and develop:
the individual potentialities of each follower. This?
he can do only by submerging himself.

Top-heavy Machinery. A certain amount of or-.
ganization is essential for the successful. operation,
of any program; but over—organization will act as;
a brake upon its movements. As a rule, the simpler}
the recreational mechanism can be kept the more.
efficiently it will function. A

Ignoring Customary Localized Conventions. The,
intelligent leader avoids arousing unnecessary an—i
tagonisms. If he would do this he will set up his l
program in conformity with the folkways of the
community in which he labors.

If his anticipated recreation program is not in
harmony with the traditions of the community, it .
will be necessary for him to educate the commu:
nity to his point of view. In doing so he must bear;
in mind that there is nothing cataclysmic about
change; it comes about slowly, but in time, come
it must. In the interim his policy ought to be one
of intelligent conformity. i
l

Negation. A “don’t do this” and “stop doing
that” attitude has never yet been successful in doa‘
ing anything but stimulating human participation i
in the very things denied. The positive approach; it
which supplies folk with so many desirable activi«
ties that they can’t find either the time or the incliil
nation to follow the undesir-;l
able, has much to commend itll

 
   

Recreation Guildeposts

In this article we have der-
veIOped the thesis that sound.
recreation programs must bg
constructed in harmony with
desirable criteria. Some of:
these standards, guideposts
for any leisure-time program,
have been summarized in
the table shown at left.

 

alacrity to organize for
furtherance of every ob-
ective holds true in the hobby
! JOI‘ld as in all other fields of
.ndeavor. Yes, let a handful
' f hobbyists get together, and
l efore the session is well un—
er way the fruits of organized
Looperation will be extolled,
'omeone will cast a motion,
nd another hobby society will

love off the assembly line!
It's a healthy condition,
However, for these busy bands establish standards,
«.lrotect and promote the recreational ideals they
’lierish, and labor industriously that the public
hay develop a better understanding of their

_ ilastimes.

Philately is, without doubt, the world’s most
I Opular hobby. The American Philatelic Society
' ith headquarters in Denver is the rallying group
* br stamp collectors in the United States. An in-
.presting cousin of the philatelist is the poster
l'amp fan. A poster stamp, if you haven’t been
. roperly introduced, is a tiny gummed, perforated
'oster printed on quality paper and bearing a de-
gn of merit. Poster stamp collecting is often a

qdeline with philatelists, but genuine poster stamp

'l-HE MODERN American’s

l

 

Hursuers play in a world of their own, duly or—-

:‘inized by the National Poster Stamp Society.
f Photography, a hobby ranking second only to
lnilately, has thousands of adherents in the Photo-
tiraphic Society of America and the Amateur
lginema League, an organization of movie makers.
\ The year 1940 registered a boom in model con-
fruction, and here a cluster of national organiza-
ions fathers thousands of local chapters. These
I I.)ast-to—coast groups include the Academy of
tlodel Aeronautics, drafting regulations for model
E’;rplane builders and Hyers; the National Model
,iailroad Association, the Miniature Racing Car
:‘gssociation, the Model Yacht Racing Association,
lid the American Model Power Boat Association.
r | “Writing twenty-five words or less” is another
Jbby that leaped in popularity last year, probably
:cause American advertisers offered Winners a
, 550,000,000 plum. Contesters are organized, too,
pd many local chapters of the National Contest-

 

America has many hobby societies bus-
ily engaged in promoting the pastimes
they represent. Observing the quaint
clans and tribes who pool their leisure-
time interests in associations of vari-
ous kinds has long been a diversion of
the authorl and no stamp collector
rummaging through a trunk filled with
thrilling philatelic possibilities has
ever found more delight in his hobby!

Is Your Hobby Organized?

By IRVING BACCHUS
Fort Worth. Texas

ers Association meet regularly
for discussion of new contests,
ideas, and winning entries.
Perhaps it seems strange that
competing contestants share
ideas, but as one entry-blank
artist pointed out: “Several
heads are better than one, and
there are plenty of prizes to
go around.” This attitude re—
flects the spirit of most hobby
groups.

Many of the nation’s hobby
societies are divisions of inter-
national amalgamations. The English, in particu-
lar, have several venerable leisure-time organiza-
tions with branches in the States. The national
groups frequently create interesting designations
for the local chapters, such as the title “tent” for
individual units of the Circus Fans of America.

The aim of the Circus Fans, after snuggling as
close to the Big Tops as modesty permits, is to
assist in preserving the nearly-extinct expositions
for future generations. No free riders, the Circus
Fans stand ready at all times to boost circuses in
any way possible. Whenever you read of a Circus
Fans’ convention your last dollar can be wagered
safely that a circus is spread in the neighborhood!

A related group to the fans is the Circus Model
Builders and Owners Association. Members of
this tiny cluster express themselves by construct—
ing miniature shows, some of which have 150,000
pieces and require days to whip into show shape.
The clan was organized to promote the exchange
of circus information not always easily obtainable.

Have you jeered at some ancient jalopy chug-
ging laboriously down the avenue? Perhaps the
joke is on the laugher. Yes, there are hobbyists
whose idea of recreation is preserving these early
vehicles. They belong to the Antique Automobile
Club of America, the Veteran Motor Car Club of
America, and the Horseless Carriage Club. Mer-
riment to these hobbyists constitutes a friendly
gambol in their 1902 Pierce-Arrows and forty-
year-old Jones Corbins. When tomorrow’s young-
sters gape at these early monstrosities and ask
“who keeps them polished,” you may thank the
antique auto clubs.

Are the railroads merely another mode of trans—

589

590 IS YOUR HOBBY ORGANIZED?

portation to you? Then get acquainted with some
interesting people who see the iron horse as a
richly romantic charger. “Railfans,” whose very
designation will rate the dictionary because of
their snug devotion to the steel carrier, have vari-
ous spheres of interest. Railroad history, and oc-
casional jaunts by rail, draw the attention of the
National Railway Historical Society, but model
railroaders relish action in miniature. The Elec—
tric Railroaders Association is composed of inter—
urban lovers who thrill at the electrically-powered
units now headed for extinction. Members ride,
photograph, and give close study to the electric
cars. More than a hundred railroad hobby clubs
of one kind or another may be found in the

United States.

‘Word puzzles have fascinated a small knot of
Americans for more than half a century, and
these hobbyists have long enjoyed the fruits of
close harmony. The National Puzzlers Associa—
tion was created in 1883 and is still going strong.
“Puzzling is the national intellectual pastime,” as—
sert these players, whose sense of humor is re—
vealed by the funny pseudonyms they use in cor-
respondence. A similar clan is the American
Cryptogram Association, whose emblem info'rms
one that the cryptogram is the “aristocrat of
puzzles.” I

The Corrigans of hobbyland are match cover
collectors, throwing away the banana and cherish-
ing the peel. These collectors trade flaps through
their society, The United Matchonians. Postcard
lovers Hock to The Postcard Collectors of
America. A. H. Wood of Kansas City, chief ram-
rod and president of the postcard clan, is also
publisher of a healthy infant, The Postcard
Gazette.

“Button! Button! Who has the button?” is
hardly the motto of the National Button Society,
but these collectors nevertheless are seeking but—
tons of all varieties and ages. Fully atune to the
importance of a tiny gadget, the button fanciers
study history through the stories of buttons.

Doll collecting is a popular hobby, and the ral-
lying clan here is The Doll Collectors of America.
Coin collectors, whose weakness is man’s medium
of exchange and the medals with which he be—
decks himself, fraternize through the American
Numismatic Association. This group has finan—
cial brackets concerning every phase of coin and
medal collecting, and members obviously include

many persons whose incomes are somewhat abov
the average.

Follow the disappearing coin and watch a rabbi
pop out of the topper———there you’ll find a membe
of the Society of American Magicians. A portio:
of the SOAM members are semi-pros but th
majority are amateurs. The professional magicia;
is disappearing, but conjury as a hobby is 11101;
popular than ever. Anne Carroll Moore, authorit
on hobbies, ranks magic as fourth among all poplj
lar pastimes. i

Twenty-five thousand hobbyists whose happie;
hours are spent peering into microscopes a;
linked—if not by actual membership—with tlj
American Society of Amateur Microscopists, 
organization created to serve amateurs on a lessf
complex scale than the highly technical profe:
sional groups.

Are you interested in food? The Society g
Amateur Chefs includes a group of New Yo;
celebrities who have absolutely no regard fj
waistlines! Jack Dempsey, John Erskine, Gele
Burgess, Tony Sarg and Christopher Morley 
a few of the celebrities who fraternize at the 
ing table and in the kitchen, arguing the respecti;

virtues of the delicacies each enjoys concocting.

4

Combating American “spectatoritis” are nurf
erous groups designed to promote participatit
sports. A few of these hobby organizations a
the National Horseshoe Pitchers Association, t.-
National Archery Association, the Amerig
Roque League and American Paddle Tennis A
sociation. Bowling, lawn bowls, badminton, tal:
tennis, squash and many other participating spoil
are similarly organized. :

Pets, outdoor activities and nature pursu.
have led to the formation of many interesting i-
cieties as, for example, the American Cat Assoc;
tion, the American Pigeon Racing Union, 
Amateur Astronomers Association, the League’:r
Walkers, and the American Nature Association.l

   
 
  
  

“A rose for every home, a bush for every g.‘
den,” is the aim of the American Rose Socie
Other Hower societies promote their favorites w
equal fervor.

The Early American Industries Society is b
on the preservation of tools, implements, ap]
ances and other mechanical devices of our ea
craftsmen and workers; and the Society for
Preservation of New England Antiquities ha:
similar pledge.

(Continued on page 634)

Should the Schools Train for Leisure?

l
I! REPARATION for a
worthy use of leisure”
has been one of the
tated aims of American
l ducation for at least two
.ecades. Some educators
ave taken this objective
'zeriously enough to provide
l '1 pportunities whereby young
"eople can have experience
a. ll various types of leisure-
‘lme pursuits. However, in
pite of the fact that the
, {mount of leisure time avail-
jble to the American peo-
'le is steadily increasing
here is no widespread or concerted attempt to set
.ito operation a program to enrich the leisure ac—
.lvities of young people. For the most part what
u now being done in this direction is the result of
- .1e initiative of local administrators rather than
,Iny widely accepted plan of approach whereby all
‘oung people who graduate from high school will
tave a broad background of experience in leistire
[:tivities.
‘ In addition to the fact that there is no generally
:cepted program of leisure activities in the
:hools there are relatively few, if any, school
“stems where a high school graduate emerges
.‘om his public school experience with a com-
rehensive background of experience in the pos-
':bilities of leisure in his own immediate surround-
lgS. Where there are programs of leisure
ctivities they are for the most part sporadic and
_  portunistic. They are not set up on the premise
= If furnishing every student with a broad base of
' ‘xperience in leisure activities. For the most part
ley are not a part of the regular school curricu-
' 1m, but rather contained in the club activities that
5 .volve around the main academic program.
Now it must be recognized that not all who are
i llinking seriously about this problem believe that
he schools can or should try to train young people
'3 it the Use of leisure time. If there was general
~ greement the schools would be much further
‘ llvanlced than they are now in this respect. In
rder to understand the present situation it will
3 necessary to examine some of the objections

 

By E. DEALTON PARTRIDGE, Ph. D.

Assistant Professor of Education
New Jersey State Teachers College

Over a period of several years the author
has experimented with a plan to train high
school students for the intelligent use of
leisure. One thing these experiments have
shown is that students can be introduced to
activities entirely new to them and as a
result develop a definite interest in them.
Even activities which he "thinks" he will
not enjoy attract the student when he has 3- The SChOOlS calm“ teaCh
an opportunity to learn about them. In an
article in a future issue of the magazine
Dr. Partridge will describe his experiments.

that arise when one raises

this issue. Here are some of

them, not in order of im—

portance.

I. There is no time in the
present school program
for such activities.

2. The teaching of such
activities would be a new
frill that the public gen-
erally would not tolerate.

leisure activities because
of their traditional aca—
demic methods.
4. Few if any teachers are
trained to lead recreation activities in the schools.
Each one of these objections will be dealt with
separately.

Time in the School Program?

To say that there is no time in the present
school program to teach young people leisure
activities is to say that there are other things more
important. Once the iSSUe of importance is raised
one must examine the set of values used in meas-
uring the relative importance of various subjects or
activities. If relative importance is determined by
a vote of teachers now in service then one must
take into consideration their training and experi-
ence. One who is trained in old-line subject mat-
ter will not readily vote to supersede his line with
something different even if it is more modern and
useful. If importance is determined by what the
colleges are requiring for entrance a dubious
standard is employed. Many educators now rec-
ognize the inadequacy of this method of curricu—
lum making and the colleges are coming to the
conclusion that they have little, if any, right to
determine what the high schools should teach.

The only sensible way to approach the matter of
evaluation of subject matter is through the avenue
of utility. The public schools should teach young
people how to live in modern society. Curriculum
content should be evaluated ultimately upon a
scale of function in the life of the pupil, function
now and in later life. Once this premise is ac—
cepted it is not difficult to judge the relative value

591

592 SHOULD THE SCHOOLS TRAIN FOR LEISURE?

of various activities and
subjects. There is no use
saying that any particular
sub ect should not be taught ;
this is apt to arouse emo-
tions that will cloud the
real issue. Instead, one
should arrange the needs of
young people on a scale to~
gether with the subjects to
be taught and then evaluate
them in terms of how much use they will be to
the person or persons involved.

For example, for the young people who do not
go to college it is probably more important for
them to know how to use their own leisure con-
structively and how to build a better society
through the proper use of leisure than it is for
them to know how people in ancient Greece fought
their wars. Keep in mind that we are speaking
relatively now; we are not saying that the history
of ancient Greece should not be taught, but sim—
ply that it should take second place to the actual
needs of young people today. Again, it is proba-
bly more important for young people to know the
geography of leisure in their own community,
state and nation than it is for them to know how
many bales of cotton are shipped to Japan each
year; more important to know how to drive a car
intelligently and safely than how to extract the
square root.

There are countless indicators at hand to show
that young America does need training in the use
of leisure time. The extent of commercialization
of leisure—time activities, the terrific toll of traf-
fic accidents among young people, the amount of
money and time spent in shallow or useless activi~
ties—these and many other bits of evidence should
indicate the need of this kind of training. This
point need not be argued at great length. Leading
educators have long recognized the need and have
said so in their statements of educational aims. Na-
tional committees have voiced their views on the
subject. The need is recognized but the answer
to this problem has not been discovered as yet.

Is Leisure a New Frill?

There has been some reac-
tion in recent months against
the so-called new frills of
modern education. Some lead—
ing citizens have been vocifer~ sure interests.
ous in their desire to return to

There is a great group of American youth.
Dr. Partridge points out. badly in need of
various specific kinds of training that
could be'used immediately and would con-
tinue to be useful after they left school.
no matter whether they found jobs readily
or not. All of them would have some lei-
sure on their hands. many of them a great
deal. yet most of them are getting little
it any help trom their school experience
on how to use their leisure constructively.

"Elbert Hubbard is credited with say-

ing. 'People are usually down on the
things they are not up on.' This cer-
tainly holds true with respect to lei-
The basis of active
interest is experience and skill."

the fundamentals of educa.
tion—the three R’s. To soint
extent this reaction has beer
justified. Modern educatiol
has been too much concern;
ed with methods and ng
enough concerned with cur}
riculum content. It does nq‘
matter how ingeniously yo'j
teach a subject if it is thy
wrong subject to teaclj
American education will fail to live up to its re;
sponsibility if it does not grasp the broader value}
inherent in curriculum content and apply the ex:
cellent methods that have been devised to a mon
functional curriculum. '

Some school administrators hold back for fea;
of what parents will think of plans to train 
leisure during school hours. The writer has deal”;
with parents with reference to this subject an:
finds that it is not difficult to show them the valu;
of the training. As a matter of fact, experience ha
shown that parents can be made most enthusiasti
about such a program and will participate in 
themselves. If the public is not ready to havq
leisure activities taught in the schools it may mea: |
that the school needs to indulge in some aduj
education; it does not necessarily mean that th-
idea is wrong.

Certainly the answer is not a return to the thre
R’s. If present education is failing, and it seen}
to be with reference to leisure training at leas
then it is because there has not been enough chang
in curriculum content so that young people ai
taught skills and activities that function in moder
life.

In one sense education for use of leisure is
new “frill.” It certainly is new in education;
history just as the problem of leisure itself is";
new experience for society. It is only very recentl:
in the history of man that leisure has becomei
widespread reality. In its wake have come man
social problems. The fact that these things ai'
new does not detract from their importance as

part of the lives of young people.

   
 
   
 
 
   

Can the Schools Teach ‘
Use of Leisure?

There is no use denying
some teachers succeed in may
ing what should be interestin.
vital material terribly dull 3!

(Continued on page 627)

Volunteer Service in Public Recreation

 0R SEVERAL YEARS the Na-
 tional Recreation Associa-
I tion has been concerned
'nbout the extent and quality of volunteer service
l n the recreation movement. Prior to the depres-
i .ion, an increasing number of volunteers was re-
l )orted from year to year. During the depression
lhe number dropped off. \Vithin the last few
nears the reports in the Year Book have shown a
teady increase, but it was the opinion of a num-
er of staff members that the reports in the Year
liook did not represent adequately the volunteer
'fervice that was actually being rendered to the
l .iovement. Accordingly, a study was undertaken
.rith a view to finding out by first hand visitation
our many volunteers were serving in the move-
lient, where they came from, what training was
,‘iven them, and the kind and quality of service

'ney were rendering.

l
Selection of Cities

I
'l \Vith a View to obtaining information in regard
p volunteer service, thirty-five cities were selected,
raving in mind variety of size, different types of
.iiecreation administration, emphasis on outdoor
‘nd indoor activities, and volunteer service as re-
I~orted to the Year Book. The following cities
yere chosen: Allentown, Pennsylvania; Andover.
Ufassachusetts; Bemiston, Alabama; Bethlehem,
lr'ennsylvania; Bloomfield, New Jersey; Boston.
lllassachusetts; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Cin-
‘nnati, Ohio; Croton-on-Hudson, New York;
layton, Ohio; East Orange, New Jersey; Eliza-
eth, New Jersey; Fairfield, Connecticut; Green-
_l 'ich. Connecticut; Hartford, Connecticut; India—
 .apolis, Indiana; Irvington, New Jersey; Lancas-
:r, Pennsylvania; Maplewood, New Jersey;
[oorestown, New Jersey; Mt. Vernon, New
iork; Newark, New Jersey; New Haven, Con-
ecticut; Newton, Massachusetts; Philadelphia,
lr'ennsylvania; Port Chester, New York; Reading,

 

 

,ennsylvania; Springfield,
:Iassachusetts ; Steubenville,
' yhio; Stratford, Connecticut ;
i'orrington,Connecticut ;Union
.‘younty, New Jersey; West-
pester County, New York;
Jheeling, \Vest Virginia;

By E. C. WORMAN

National Recreation Association

White Plains, New York; and
York, Pennsylvania.

The following states were
represented: Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, West Virginia,
Ohio, Indiana, and Alabama.

People Consulted

In gathering information it was the object to
secure not only factual evidence from the recrea-
tion departments, but insofar as possible to learn
the experience of other organizations with their
volunteer leadership, to find what their attitude
was toward public recreation and its volunteer
service, and to what extent agencies use the volun-
teer bureaus of the Councils of Social Agencies
and other relevant information. With this in mind
visits were made to public recreation departments,
Y.M.C.A.’s, Y.VV.C.A.’s, Boy Scout headquarters,
Girl Scout headquarters and Councils of Social
Agencies.

The Nature of the Results Secured

It should be pointed out at the beginning that
the findings of this study are not scientifically ac-I
curate. The objective was to get the “feel” of the
situation rather than to build up records. Most
service rendered in a volunteer capacity on play—
grounds and in community centers in connection
with athletic sports and other activities had not
been recorded, so when executives reviewed their
work they gave an approximate number of volun-
teers. These approximate statements in all cases,
it is believed, were under rather than over the
actual number of volunteers engaged in the de-
partment. Some cities did not include any athletic
leaders; others included all athletic leaders. There
is therefore no uniformity in the reports from the
various cities. It will be impossible to secure
such uniformity until there is a commonly ac-
cepted definition of what is meant by volunteers

and who should be included in
the reports.

The material appearing in this article
by no means represents the full report
of the study made of volunteer lead-
ership. It doesI however. offer for
your consideration and comment some
of the significant findings of the study.

Problems Confronted

It was obvious from the be-
ginning that a number of
serious problems had to be

593

594 VOLUNTEER SERVICE IN PUBLIC RECREATION

considered. Among them were the following:

Attitude of Executives in Public Recreation. In
approximately half of the cities, recreation execu—
tives said they had not had much success with the
use of volunteer workers, and in some cases they
stated frankly that they did not use them at all.
One executive said that he would not use volun-
teers if he had them; he did not want to be
bothered with them. In several instances this at-
titude was due to the fact that the recreation de-
partment was being manned primarily by WPA

leadership, and in others because the executives .

had had some unsatisfactory experience with vol-
unteer leadership. In at least half a dozen instances
in New England the executives feared that if the
National Recreation Association were to empha-
size the use of volunteers the fact would become
known to the various taxpayer organizations who
would be inclined to bring pressure to release pro-
fessional recreation leadership in order to supplant
it with volunteer service. In other areas visited
this fear was not found, but, on the other hand,
executives stated freely that the success of their
work depended largely upon good volunteer lead—
ership. Several experienced executives made the
statement that they tested their own personal
leadership by their ability to secure and use out-
standing people in the community in a leader—
ship capacity. Others stated that they believed
thoroughly in the use of volunteers, and in several
cities they stated that the program could not be
carried on without such help.

Attitude of Other Agencies Toward Public Rec-
reation. In a number of cities the question was
asked of executives of other organizations, “Do
you think it is more difficult to secure volunteers
for public recreation than for private recreation
agencies?” In every instance the answer was,
“Yes, it is more difficult.” When asked why they
thought this was true, they stated that public rec-
reation usually employed larger staffs and that
therefore there was no incentive for persons to
volunteer their service; they felt that there was
no need. One executive in the Boy Scout move-
ment stated that their large response from volun-
teer leaders was due to the fact that they had such
small paid leadership. Several stated that public
recreation was not attractive to the average volun-
teer worker. It was often mixed up with politics
and its leadership did not command the same respect
as the leadership in the private organizations.

Some of the leaders in the public recreation de-
partments said that of course it was easy to get
volunteers in private agencies. This they felt was
due to the fact that such service means associa:
tion with superior people. This observation,
though given in sincerity, was not always based
on factual evidence. 

Definition of the Term "Volunteer." The greatest
confusion prevailed as to what was meant 
volunteers. The Year Book terminology was
“activity leaders” and “others.” Some executive§
did not report board members or committeemen;
Others did not report those who had grown up in;
their own activities. In one instance the persor;
reported only those who had grown up within thl
activities of the department. The general feeling
was that a volunteer was sOme person brought 
from the outside to lead a group in public recrea,"
tion. Such leadership was usually thought of a,
leading an arts and crafts club, or a music group
or a drama group. In most instances public recrei,
ation executives had had difficult experience wit]
the professional type of leadership. It was very
often found that the professional person was mot
interested in the activity than in the person, ant
that when the activity was not satisfactory th‘
leader lost interest in the person and became ii
regular and therefore useless.

U

As this matter of definition was discussed, exec} 1
tives were asked to tell what the various peop}
did in the different activities of their prograi;
As they described these activities each executij
himself was allowed to decide whether he thougl
the person was rendering volunteer service or nc

   
    
  

Groups Involved

The chief discussion centered around the fc
lowing groups of persons:

Persons Who Wanted Jobs. A number of exec,
tives were inclined to say these people are nf
truly volunteers. Their interest is purely person“
and selfish. On the other hand, it was point1
out that some of our best leadership today in 
professional body began as volunteers in pla
grounds and community centers. One recreation E.
partment maintains a list of more than two hunde
names of persons who have volunteered their sf
vices in one capacity or another, and when oppt
tunity arises for selecting paid leadership, su
selection is made from this list if possible becat‘
the candidates are known and their abilities ha‘
been rated.

 

 

VOLUNTEER 515R! '[L'H [N [’FBLIC lttit'l€[£.l'l'IU.\-' 595

Storytelling is popular with the children

of the playgrounds of Hagersl'ownl Maryland.
And it is as storytellers that volunteers in
many cities are giving effective service

.1 Athletic Leadership. There
.{Lre thousands of teams in

'iaseball, softball, basket-

Many veterans in the
recreation movement and
in some of our large and
best-established recreation

tall, and other sports, each
“If which has its own officers. The question was—
‘loes the manager of such a team constitute a
drolunteer? \Vhen questioned, many executives
h: ilatly said, “No, managers of teams are not volun-
yeers. They belong to the team. They fight for the
peam. They have no interest outside of the team.”
I )thers replied, “Managers of teams come together
11 a city-wide council and help to make up the
Hity-wide schedules in the various sports. These
ltouncils become the interpreters of the ideals of
l he recreation department and are responsible for
:1th establishment of the ethical standards of the
,‘ tiepartment in their respective communities. While
at he manager in his local community belongs to his
 learn. when he comes to a central council meeting
Mn which he shares in the city-wide plan of an
9 lthletic program, he is far more than a manager
if a team. He becomes a constructive agent in
n developing the program and setting the standards

« if the public recreation department.”

1 .
l borne who had frankly stated that managers

‘tere not volunteers, after hearing the other argu-
nent, agreed that such leaders really were render-
dlg volunteer service to the community.

departments stated at the outset that managers of
teams and persons such as time keepers. score
keepers, judges, sponsors were volunteers. Several
went so far as to say that officers of self-initiated
clubs were rendering some of the most valuable
volunteer service to the movement. Many others
did not accept this latter position.

In an attempt to get some clarity out of this
confLISion and that all might be thinking along the
same lines, a simple definition was desired.

The simple definition of a volunteer given by
the Y.W.C.A. at its national convention was help—
ful. The Y.\»’V.C.A. with 95,000 volunteers in the
movement states, “By volunteers we mean any
woman or girl who without Flnancial reward con-
tributes service to the organization in some area
of leadership.” The following analysis made in
Introduction to Community Recreation * was

used.

Under this breakdown executives and staff
members found it easier to determine who in their
movement was a volunteer.

* Prepared by George 1). Butler for the National Recreation As-
sociation.

596 VOLUNTEER SERVICE IN PUBLIC RECREATION

Administrative, Promotional or Advisory

Boards
Councils

Committees ,
Those who assist in referendum campaigns or serve

as interpreters
Activity or Group Leadership
Organizing, guiding and instructing people
Hobby Club
Hikes
Teaching craft classes

Storytellers
Social Recreation Leaders
Organizers of Leagues

N ail-Leadership H elp with Program Projects
Officiating

Judging

Helping in pageants
Ushers

Help with scenery

Help with transportation
Shut-ins—service types

iliiscellaneous Services

Marking game courts
Playground registration
Constructing game equipment
Clerical assistance

Motivation in Volunteer Service

Public recreation executives, staff members and
executives of other agencies were asked what they
found to be the motivation in the service rendered
by their volunteers. Some of their answers were:

In Public Recreation. Members of recreation
commissions and councils believe especially in rec-
reation for all and are fighting for this wide ex—
tension of recreation in their communities. They
think in civic terms; of a better city in which to
live, of recreation for all classes regardless of
economic status, race, color, or creed. Fervor is
found especially among the older members of
boards who for years have been giving their time
to public recreation and who have fought the
battles against the intrigues of the politicians.

Many volunteers are interested in the activity
for its own sake. Those who volunteer in various
phases of athletic activity are very often old base-
ball or basketball players who thoroughly love the
game. The same Spirit is found
in volunteers in other types of
activities.

Many on boards and com-
missions, on committees and
as individuals, are seriously
concerned with the problem of
delinquency. They believe in

-the organization and have grown up in it it

"As a volunteer social worker you will
have many compensations. You will be
identified with an established agency
for community betterment. Your ca-
pacities will be increased. your in-
terests broadened. and your sympa-
thies and understanding deepened."
—From Vocations for Volunteers. faith.

and support recreation in the‘ hope that it may.
serve to reduce delinquency.

There are the younger volunteers who OECr.
their services with a view to getting jobs later.
Some are training for other jobs of responsibility

(
y
f

in the field of recreation. i

In Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts. One of the hrsg
loyalties in Scout leadership is to the institution in“
which the tr00p is located. Leaders of church;
groups, for example, are interested in the young
people of their church. Scout executives have
stated on several occasions that they emphasizg’
that troops should be recognized as belonging tq
the .church and not to the Scout organization}
The boys are church boys. The leaders are
church leaders. The real problem of the character
of the boy is a church problem. It was stated that
it is much more difficult to get loyalty to a school
than it is to organizations like the church or setki‘
tlement. I

Scouting is highly respectable and many like t5
associate their efforts with the type of people wh
are leaders in the Scouts. '-

Scouting commands public confldence. .

Scouting is generally known to have a small
paid staff and to be dependent primarily upoi
volunteer leadership. The job cannot be dons
without such help. '

Many are interested in the Scout program frog:
the point of view of developing better citizen:
This feeling may be described by the wor
“Americanism.” It is a patriotic expression. ‘

District and other leaders are given large rt
sponsibilities. Men and women respond to sue
challenge.

Leaders are given continuous training. Th.
makes for a sense of efficiency and gives standin
among other leaders in the movement.

In Other Organizations. In the Y.M.C.A., Y.V\=
C.A., boys’ clubs and settlements, much voluntet,i
leadership is given because of loyalty to the instl
tution. In many cases large numbers, perhaps
majority, of the leaders have been members I

h

 

 

  
   
    
 
   

years. The institution is look:
upon as their own.

In the Christian and Jewii
organizations there is the r
ligious motivation—a desire'
help boys and girls to be be.
ter citizens through a str01

VOLUNTEER SERVICE IN PUBLIC RECREATION 597

, In the Volunteer Bureaus
)f Councils of Social Agen-
t ties as well as elsewhere it
Was stated that many persons
rolunteer because they want
some outlet wherein they may
tzxpress themselves. They
I .vant something that will give
them status in the commu-

touches the

l
i It was particularly inter—
l sting to note that in the Bureau of Volunteers in
. Boston women especially are said to be turning
' .way from group work activities in order to take
a lp hospital work. They have felt themselves in-
' 'ffectual, it was stated, in the group work activi-
' lies because they were not adequately trained, and
ltlurthermore they did not care to devote the time
txnd energy to the training necessary to do good
:gvork in this field. The hospitals offer an outlet
tor persons of this type and are securing large
Numbers of volunteers who render simple service
i 5 library workers, record keepers, clerical work—
‘rs, technical assistants, and in making surgical
ll .ressings. These persons can don a hospital uni-
:orm, give a few hours of service and feel that
' 'hey are really helping somebody in need.

What Do Volunteers Do?

"i In order to give a comparative basis for esti-
'|-1ating the value of volunteer service in public
acreation, lists of the services rendered in several
'ther organizations are given. It will be clear to
w'he reader that while the nature of the service in
' dublic recreation is somewhat different from that
. I other organizations, yet it would be hard to say
'1at in quality one was more or less valuable than
1e other. For instance, it would be diflicult to

Olllpal‘e the values of the service of 200 women .

taking surgical dressings in a hospital with 200
ten spending six evenings in one week in a year
elping in a membership drive in the Y.M.C.A.,
r 200 fathers of boys who are playing on baseball
teams who spend evening after evening during
,11e whole baseball season sponsoring their teams’
.ctivities and going with them to matches in differ—
‘gnt parts of the city.
H In board, commission, or'committee leadership
. ' would be difficult to say that any one national
_‘§_rganization had better leadership than another.
N1 the private agencies and in public recreation,
Illtstanding civic leaders are found who have
| :iven years of devoted service to the organization

"The volunteer is the foundation and as-
surance of successful effort in remedial fied.
and preventive social activities. He
problem as a community
leader; he speaks for the community; he
sponsors .and interprets the movement;
he secures support; he carries forward
the socializing and preventive programs.
He must be present if social effort is
to go forward—and in large and in-
creasing numbers."—Robett E. Bondy.

with which they are identi-

Four hospitals in Boston
have paid directors of volun-
teers. Three hospitals have
unpaid directors. The Beth
Israel Hospital alone had
more than 400 volunteers in
I939. The type of service
rendered was as follows:

Clinical secretaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 98

Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Clerical workers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 48

Library workers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 22

Reading to children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10

Pages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 30

Record keeping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 15

Mother service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2

Clinical technical assistants . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2

Assistants in special studies . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7

Surgical dressing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 197

The National Y.W.C.A. states that its volun-

teers rendered the following services:
Officers, members of boards, committeemen
Workers in finance campaigns, all aspects
Girl reserve advisers, teachers, leaders of clubs
Arranged luncheons and dinner meetings
Prepared publicity
Spoke in public for the Association
Served club suppers
Helped with office work
Service on information desk
A multitude of other services

The following Y.M.C.A. experiences in several

cities are suggestive:
In Lancaster, Pennsylvania, the following vol-
unteers are recorded for the year 1939:

Board members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 20

Serving on committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125

Serving on financial campaigns . . . . . . . . . . .. 75

Serving in membership campaigns . . . . . . . . . 100

Leaders of boys’ clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 17

Leaders of craft activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8
Y.M.C.A. in Indianapolis, Indiana:

Board members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 24

Members of committees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 149

Leaders (number not listed, but the follow-
ing groups are given, possibly having one
leader each) '

Neighborhood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Grey Y . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 59

Junior High Y . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1

Senior High Y . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 15

Y’s Men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1

Foreman’s Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1

Others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Volunteers within the group . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 68

Volunteers from without group . . . . . . . . . .. 131

598 VOLUNTEER SliRl'it'E IN PUBLIC REC'R SA TION

Y..\I.C.A.. Dayton, Ohio:
Central Board

Board members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 28
Committee members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i . 664
Club leaders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 43
Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Fifth Street Colored
Board members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 15
Committee members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Leaders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l9

Lighthouse Boys' Club. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania.
Fred VVocrner. executive of the club, has been in
the club since he was a small boy and in direct
charge for eleven years. The building was crowded
with activities, all being conducted by volunteer
leadership. One hundred and sixteen (116) vol-
unteers participated actively. One had charge of
the office; two were doing clerical work in the
office; two were in the library and game room;
two assisted in the ping-pong room; one adult
conducted a boys’ orchestra; two led groups in
the gymnasium; one was in
charge of weight-lifting class;
one did volunteer photography ;
one taught fencing
and other activities.
Mr. Woerner in-
sists that no volun—
teer shall give more
than one evening per
week. His theory is
that people want to
do things. He makes
it possible for them
to do them. Many
of his volunteers
have been in the
membership of the
club for eight, ten,
or twelve years.

Under Public
Recreation

In the various
areas of recreation
activities volunteers
were found doing
the following
things:

Boards and Com-
mittees. Practically

every department
of recreation has a

One of the most effective types of
service for volunteers in recreation
lies in the field of athletic sports

 

board or commission responsible for the work
of the department, numbering from five to twelve
or more. There are committees of various sizes
for the major phases of activity such as base-
ball, softball, golf, swimming, music, dramatics,
arts and crafts, nature, outing activities, winter
sports, etc. Special committees of even larger
numbers are found conducting the mass ac;
tivities such as festivals, pageants, Christmas
musical events. 

In Athletics. Volunteers serve on committees
councils; as referees, coaches, umpires, judges,
as sponsOrs of teams, managers of teams, timig
keepers, score keepers, equipment keepers; and i;
arbitration service. '

Other Sports. Committees for boxing, fencing
archery, swimming, dancing, tennis, table tennis
marbles. Teachers in practically all of the sports.

Music. Volunteer teachers of music, leaders 0;
symphony orchestras, chora
groups, bands, opera groups
Many of these have committe:
groups as well.

Workers in pag
eants, minstreli‘
and folk festivals.|

Volunteers in Regq
reation Centersl
Parents’ Council
are responsible fo
raising money at;
interpreting th
needs of the cente l
to public official I

 

and to the commt
nity. l
Leaders of hoblj
groups '
Discussion leaders

Social recreation
leaders

Leaders of boys’ at
girls’ clubs

(In two cities visit;
more than six/1'.
prominent worn;
in each city spot
sored girls’ club:
Storytellers

Chess teachers ‘

(Continued on
page 631)

Courtesy Boys’ Club of New York

 Cooperative Visual Education Program

‘ N SEPTEMBER 1937
I Collingwood Avenue
 Presbyterian Church
it in Toledo decided to ex-
l .periment with visual edu-
v :ation in its recreational pro-
a gram. The experiment had a
‘threefold purpose. First, visual
‘ education had to be sold to the
":ongregation in order that the
‘ 'Drogram would have financial
isupport. People in the church were saying, “Are
we going to compete with the neighborhood thea-
lzer? If so, I’m against such a program.” Next,
'Wisual education had to be sold to the community
xllNl'liCh surrounded the church. Children in this
i :ommunity were running the streets, too poor to
patronize the theater except on rare occasions.
I finally, the experiment, it was hoped, would con«
{iince community agencies that such a program, if
“properly planned, would not be prohibitive to their
' “)udgets. It took just three years of experimenta-
l1ion to bring visual education to the poorer
" churches, settlement houses, and community
“renters.
-' Laying Plans
" The directors of three agencies met to discuss
'izhe feasibility of conducting a weekly program of
j-risual education in different centers strategically
jocated throughout the city. Cost was taken into
- lzonsideration at the outset. This could be figured
upuite accurately from the three—year program that
..1ad been carried on at Collingwood Presbyterian
Church. The plan was to bring the films in for
lme week at a time and in that way the cost of
trental films would be materially reduced. Also the
unount spent for postage on films would be kept
11: a minimum. Finally, a program was worked
out that could be put on at each center for the
i "otal cost of one dollar per week per agency. Ten
l agencies would be needed to carry on such a pro-
‘gram successfully. Agency heads were ap-
lDroached, and all said that they were interested in
{such a program at that price. A meeting was
'palled and representatives from twelve agencies
.'net to form Toledo’s Cooperative Visual Educa-
ion Committee.
. At the initial meeting of this committee, the

 
 
  
  

A project which in September l937
was only the glimmering of an idea,
in September l940 becomes a reality

By JAMES D. MCKINLEY
Director of Activities

Collingwood Presbyterian Church
Toledo. Ohio

program plans as worked
out previously were sub—
mitted for approval along
with some of the prob-
lems which would have
to be settled. One of these was
equipment, for only four of
the sixteen agencies which
eventually shared in the proj-
_ ect had motion picture pro-
jectors and only two had here-
tofore had the funds to carry on a visual educa-
tion program. One specific need was that of
providing a projector to those centers that were
without the means of showing films. The Toledo
Recreation Division solved that problem by ac-
cepting the responsibility of providing a projector
to those centers needing one. Along with the
projector came the need for an operator, be-
cause few agencies had people who could operate
a machine and it was felt advisable to have a
person assigned to project the program through-
out the week. The City Recreation Division and
the National Youth Administration worked out a
plan whereby a City Recreation Division’s Oper-
ator would show the films five days of the week,
and National Youth Administration workers would
show them two days per week.

Problems to Be Solved

A real problem confronted the committee when
it came time to arrange periods for the showing
of the films at each center. Two had regular pro-
grams of movies that had been running at a cer-
tain time the previous year. They desired to keep
that schedule, for to change meant disruption of
their other scheduled activities. Two churches had
community nights planned and wanted to use the
visual education program in conjunction with
these nights. Many wished to Show their pro-
gram early in order that children could leave for
home before parents became worried. All in all,
the hardest problem to solve was that of adjust-
ing the programs of sixteen agencies into a com—
prehensive schedule of one week so that all would
feel satisfied. Because all were cooperative and
were willing to make concessions here and there
in their schedules, a satisfactory arrangement of

599

600 A COOPERATIVE VISUAL EDUCATION PROGRAM

showings was finally evolved. Next year’s plans
call for a blank schedule of periods to be made
up in advance and agencies will be filled in as their
request to participate in the program is received.
In this way it is hoped to eliminate the one pos-
sible source of disagreement.

How were films to travel from agency to
agency? Who would receive the films and who
would send them back? These were important
questions to be answered if the mechanics of the
plan were to run smoothly. Collingwood Avenue
Presbyterian Church agreed to act as the clearing
house for all films and to assume the responsi-
bility for returning them at the proper time. The
question of transporting the films was solved by
the fact that two persons were to operate the
machine during the week and the films would
travel with them continuously. At the end of the
week the operator would return the old film and
pick up the new one. Transportation allowance
was to be furnished for the operators.

Finances

Then came the question of the handling of
finances. Who would collect the money, pay for
films and postage, and keep an accurate check on
monies collected and expended? The group voted
to have the director of the Douglas Community
Center be the responsible party and gave him full
authority to act as treasurer of the group. One
of his important duties was to work out with each
individual agency a plan for paying its share in
the project. Some could pay the thirty-five dollars
in a lump sum, others could pay half of it, while
still others wanted to pay their share by the month.
A satisfactory plan was finally arranged with
each agency.

The question may arise as to how the figure of
one dollar per week per agency was arrived at.
This brings us to the way in which the program
proper was made up. First, a program had to be
planned that would run continuously, but not so
long that expense of film
would prohibit showing. The
program must run during
the school year as its pur-
pose was to draw children
to a regularly scheduled ac-
tivity of that agency which
the child attended. It was
found that thirty-five weeks
would cover a period from

the last two weeks of Sep- cial resources of

Mr. McKinley urges other cities to try this
method of establishing visual education in
their community centers. "There may be
some programs," he suggestsl "that are not
functioning which would come to life it spon-
sored as cooperative enterprises. The time
is now at hand when agencies must plan to-
gether in order to take advantage of certain
elements in the recreation field which will

be lost it left to the initiative and tinan-
individual agencies."

tember to the middle of May. If each agency paid
one dollar per week, the total cost would be thirty-
five dollars per agency per year. This could be
afforded by most agencies.

Next, a weekly program of film had to be
obtained that would fall within the outlay planned
by the original group of three. As ten agencies
were to be invited to participate, ten dollars per I
week could be used for all expenses. $1.50 was.
allowed for postage each week, leaving $8.50 for-
renting films. \Vith these figures in mind, a prof-
gram of an hour’s showing of film or about five:
reels was formulated. It was thought that a serial}
of two reels each week might be used to sustain;
interest of the children while three reels were}
given over to educational films. Many of the
educational films necessarily had to be free in?
dustrial, government, and travel films, but interé,
spersed with them were rental subjects of hiin
caliber. Next year, with each agency paying twd‘
dollars a week, all films will be rented. This will
improve the standard of the program to the extent!
that only pictures, rented or free, known to be of:
a definite educational value will be used.

Fourteen agencies are eagerly awaiting the first
showing of films in their cooperative plan. Iii
means that a definite step has been taken to improve
the quality of pictures shown in community cen;
ters. It means a new aid for the poorer centers
who find themselves giving up worthwhile ex;
pensive programs to hold expenses to a minimum
It means the working together of community cen-
ters rather than the competition of those who cai
project the most popular films. It means the op.
portunity for agencies to develop in children thi
taste for something finer than the westerns, th:
murder mysteries, the love plays, or other thrillers-

Agencies Cooperating

Jewish Federation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sunday 2:30-4:C"
East Toledo Neighborhood House....Sunday 4:30-6zc-f
Luella Cummings Home . . . . . . . . . . . ..Sunday 8:00-91:
Wesley Methodist 
Monday6:00- 7:3
Friendly Center
Monday 7 :45- 9 :.'
City Recreation Department
Monday 9 :30-11 :I‘
Rosewood Presbyterian
Tuesday 6 :00- 7:.
Friendship House ,
Tuesday 7 :45- 9 :;
City Recreation Department
Tuesday 9 :30-11 :I
(Continued on page 634)

  
   

u ,
 Sltzmarks"

In

the Recreation Department Ushered in a
new co-recreational activity.

t" SKI HEIL l” are the words with which in 1935

And it happened this way. A young ski enthusi-
‘ast, who hailed from an eastern college, approached
. )ur Department with the idea of conducting
:lasses in the Arlberg technique of skiing which
iad taken the East by storm. From a small band
'nf twenty which formed the first class, the popu-

l

” 'iarity of the sport has spread like wildfire. In the
:l;5h0rt span of five years hundreds of adults have

learned to ski by this safe, controlled method.
The first year we sponsored only lessons in reg-
ilar class organization. At the end of that season

LIl he members asked for the privilege of forming a

.1

' :lub. Beginning the next year we gave the par—

icipants their choice of a club membership, which
‘ ncluded lessons, for $2.00, or class lessons for
l51.25 per season. Interest in the club grew so
wiremendously and the number taking the lessons

\ltlonc was so comparatively small that we are now

offering a straight club membership only.
Our Recreation Department is most fortunate in

- '1aving two winter sports’ centers, Theodore
 Wirth and Columbia Golf Courses, with beautiful

undoor facilities as well as a topography which
lends itself splendidly to all types of skiing. The
ocker rooms of these buildings make ideal waxing
lshops, and the club rooms, with their fireplaces,
wtre excellent for social gatherings. In order to
pffer opportunities to those who work during the
(lay, the Department put up floodlights at Theo—
tiore W’irth so that the classes might be conducted
at night. The number of participants has grown
' so in size that it necessitated arranging for an ad—
* litional lighted area. Besides these accommoda—

-~.l’ions for evening groups, the club at Columbia
- fneets on Saturday afternoons.

W

The initial cost of the ski equipment is a bit
high, and for those people who cannot afford to
'purchase it, the centers rent out skis with har-
'.1esses and poles at a nominal
lrost. A small deposit is held
Lluring the rental period.

' Our club members range
In age from eighteen years
21p. The club activities con-
gist of general club skiing

ter sports

interest in

Minneapolis

The Minneapolis Park Board, which has
had long experience in promoting win-
kinds. recommends
highly the plan described in this arti-
cle as a successful method of arousing
controlled

of all

safel

 

By HELEN SLOCUM

Recreation Department
Board of Park Commissioners
MinneapolisI Minnesota

following each lesson period ; informal slalom and
downhill races; a chartered bus trip to a near—by
town for an all day outing; a torch light masquer-
ade on skis ; novelty events on skis; test nights for
improvement pins; participation in local tourna-
ments; and our own club championships. The men
and women do not compete against each other
except in novelty events. We have several social
evenings throughout the season and the final meet—
ing is set aside for presentation of awards, fol—
lowed by dancing, games and lunch.

One event which proved most exciting to the
club members was the “Slippery Hollow Schuss.”
This was worked out on the peg tournament idea.
After each lesson the members participated in a
downhill and slalom run. The combined time for
the two runs was figured, and places on the peg
Schuss board awarded accordingly. Much enthu—
siasm was created over these runs; the top people
strove to keep their places and the others did their
best to climb up a peg or two. There were no
prizes awarded, and the friendly competition cre-
ated a band of good fellowship throughout the
group.

Our improvement tests accomplished the pur—
pose for which they were set up. Each club mem-
ber had a chance by earnest effort to improve his
skiing ability to such a degree that one of the im-
provement pins might be his. The following out-
line serves as a brief description of the tests by
which the candidates earned improvement pins:

The Tests

First Test

I. Must do the downhill and
slalom races in designated
times.
Because of the varying

601

skiing.

602 “SITZMARKS” IN MINNEAPOLIS

conditions of the snow, no prescribed times
can be set which a person must make in order
to pass the test. In view of this fact, the fol-

lowing methods are used in these two races:
a. A skier must place in the upper third of the num-
ber of entries in any club race held in the above

events.
b. Wherever there is a fraction of one-third to two-

thirds when figuring the upper third of the en-
tries, as 3 1/3 or 3 2/3, the number passing the
test would be four instead of three providing
there is less than a whole second difference be-
tween the number and the fraction.

11. Must participate (not necessarily place) in at

least two out of the three club championship

events.
a. These championships will be held at Theodore
Wirth and Columbia respectively.
b. Illness is the only acceptable excuse for not par-
ticipating in the championships if working for
a pin.
III. Must be able to execute in good form:

a. Kick-turns d. Stemming
b. Herringbone e. Double Stem Turns
c. Side Step f. Single Stem Turns
g. Cross-country Strides (3)

Second Test

A skier must pass all of the following in order
to be awarded the first pearl for his pin:
I. Must have been awarded the first test pin:

II. Must be able to execute in good form:

a. Closed Christiana c. Skating on skis
'b. Open Christiana d. Telemark

III. Must do the downhill, slalom races in desig- '

nated times.

a. Must place first, second, or third in any of the
races held in downhill or slalom providing there

are nine entries.
Eb. With six entries, must place first or second.
c. With less than six entries must place first.

Third Test
A skier must pass all of the
following in order to qualify
for the second pearl for his pin:
I. Must have been awarded the
first test pin
and second
test pearl.

II. Mustbeable
to execute
in good
form: n

a. Hop Chris-
tiana

2b. Gaelande-

As an example of the instruction
provided by the Minneapolis Park
Board. a class of men is shown
taking a lesson in the Snow Plow,
one of the elementary techniques

 

sprung — for men — not required for wome
III. Must do the slalom and downhill in. desigo,
nated times. . f

a. Must place first or second in any one of the.
I I 0 “
downhill or slalom races. (The ratio of wrnners'-.
to entries is the same as in the second test.) f

IV. Must win (first place) at least one clubf’i
championship. (Men’s and women’s times are)
figured separately.) -‘“

f
L

The Ski Clinic 3

We concentrate on downhill and slalom skiing;i
almost to the exclusion of the cross-country. Our)
purpose is to teach this controlled method in order!
that the people may enjoy to the utmost our 
velous, natural outdoor facilities and know the
thrill and excitement of skimming over the hills;
with the greatest of ease. 

“Ski fever” is a term which quite adequately
describes the high pitch of enthusiasm of the;
novice who learns to “ski on his feet,” and thé
“fever” increases by leaps and bounds in the ad;
vanced skier who has accomplished the Christiana:

and high speed turns. {

As the “fever” became an epidemic our local.
ski clubs conceived the idea of supplying a city
wide remedy in the form of a “Ski Clinic.” The
local clubs in the Twin City area have formed a '
Ski Racing Council which served primarily as a,
clearing house for racing dates. This Council now
conducts all of the races for the clubs and acts as
co-sponsor of the Ski Clinic.

The purpose of the Ski Clinic is to introduce
the various types of skiing to the general publié
free of charge with the hope that many of thesg
participants will become interested in taking up
the sport.

 
 
   
   
   

The clinic is usually held on the three nights
following Christmas. This give?
those who have received ski.
equipment for Christmas an op}
portunity to try it out. T1155“
greatest factor, however, is that
we can count 01
having snow 3;

. this time. Th!

I i scene of thg
Clinic is one Q;
our Park Boar;
golf course}
which suPplie:
(Continued on

page 634)

What Does a Business Man Think of

NATION OR A BUSINESS which remains young
A in spirit will never stagnate. Before civil-
ization reached its present mechanized
and specialized stage, a man’s work often pro-
vided diversified enough contacts to give him
a fairly well-rounded existence, but under
present conditions we must depend more and
more upon the wise use of the individual’s lei—
sure time to maintain that creative or pioneer-
ing desire which exists in everyone and which
has made our country the nation that it is
today.

Industry's effort during the last few years to
cooperate with government in spreading
employment by voluntarily maintaining the
shorter week, as adopted under the old Na-
tional Recovery Act of 1933, has brought new
problems. The idea of dividing available em-
ployment among workers is sound, and history
has shown a definite trend toward shorter
working hours. However, it must be recog-
nized that shorter hours mean more leisure,
which leisure should be regarded as a cher-
ished priVilege-——neither to be wasted nor to be
used subversively. Thus the problem of educat-
ing people to utilize their leisure so that it
will be a constructive factor in modern life and
not a boomerang is one of major importance
today.

In some businesses, as for example the
petroleum industry, the work—week for many
workmen is 36 hours, which is even less than
the present 42-hour maximum established by
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, and
much less than the 48-hour and even longer
schedules which prevailed prior to 1933. The
transition from the long work-week to the
shorter one found many workmen unequipped
toutilize their suddenly acquired leisure, as
their previous opportunities and long working
hours had not permitted them to develop con-
structive outside interests. Moreover, where
substantial reduction in working hours took
place, the shorter work-week often brought
about some reduction in the workers’ total
monthly wages, which in turn restricted the

Public Recreation ?

By T. E. SWIGART

Houston. Texas

Extracts from an address by T. E. Swigart,
Vice-President of the Shell Oil Company

and a sponsor of the National Recreation
Association, which was given at a banquet

of the Southwest District Recreation Con-
ference held at Houston' Texas' in April.

amount of money they could afford to spend
on recreation.

The preservation of American ideals is a
prime responsibility of American business,
which comprises more than forty million gain-
fully employed workers. Consequently, ap-
preciating the value to be gained by a con-
structive use of leisure, every person in busi-
ness organizations should be vitally cbncerned
in seeing that recreation in its real meaning
is made available to workers and their families.
Public recreation at present offers the best
solution to this problem.

One has only to glance-over the diversified
activities of Houston’s own excellent munici-
pal Recreation Department, which promotes
such diversified activities as sports, dramatics,
dancing, music, arts and crafts, to realize that
community recreation is truly affording every-
one the opportunity to learn the art of living
in its true sense.

From a business man’s point of view, these
activities have several inherent advantages.
They afford opportunity for the development
of leadership, a quality which is continually
being sought by every employer in his em-
ployees. They develop the spirit of team work
and the ability to get along with our fellow
man. Aloofness, timidity, and other such
traits are sure to be overcome through the co-
operative spirit which always prevails where
everyone is doing the same thing and having

( C antinucd on page 626)

603

Some Music Organizations for Yo I

A Young People's Symphony

Orchestra
By CHARLES W. DAVIS

Superintendent of Recreation
Berkeley. California

HE BERKELEY Recreation Department pre-
Tsented the Young People’s Symphony Orches-

tra in a concert at the Greek Theater of the
University of California on Sunday, May 12th,
as a part of its National Music Week program.
The concert was also part of the city’s celebration
of the seventy—fourth anniversary of its founding
and was open to the public free of charge.

The Young People’s Symphony Orchestra of
Berkeley, California, has developed in three short
seasons into one of the leading recreational and
cultural youth movements of the community. Sec-
ond only to the Portland Junior Symphony, which
has been in existence sixteen years, is this already
nationally famous youth organization of Berkeley.
Ninety young artist players, who study and work
under the outstanding direction of Conductor
Jessica Marcelli, are learning to think, feel and
play in perfect unison, while an attitude of co-
operation and feeling of unity of expression shows

The Young People’s Symphony is stimulating
culturally and artistically as organized athletics
train physically. Fortunate, indeed, is the young
musician who lives in the community which offers
SUCh an opportunity without fee of any kind to
any young musician under seventeen years who
wishes to prepare himselfand qualify by passing
the admission tryout. Standard symphony scores
are used so that each applicant must have attained
a standard of sight reading and technical ability.
The orchestra then offers ensemble training, a
comradeship with others who are striving for the
highest expression in fine music, "its appreciation
and interpretation.

When you have nearly a hundred young people
of all ages from more than twenty different schools
united in one purpose, working together eagerly
to express every phrase as beautifully as possible,
practicing at home to perfect their own parts,
coming dependably to every weekly rehearsal, you
have a hundred young people who are construc-
tively occupied outside the zone of juvenile de—
linquency. If such an organization inspires several
hundred other boys and girls to study in order
that they may some day merit such an experience
in a fine orchestra then we have a contribution to
every youth movement. If such

Ninety young p '
learning to think,

in their instant response, their musical growth. recreation brings with, it a sense

 

.Municipal Recreation Programs

o

' y, California. are
in perfect unison

of achievement, a development of appreciation
and understanding all of the finer perceptions and
artistic senses, that consciousness will have been
awakened never to die. Talent has been fostered
and developed through wholesome occupation so
that leisure time will yield large values in progress
for the community advancement of its young
people.

In the three years since the Berkeley Young
People’s Symphony has been presenting concerts,
seven young soloists have been given the oppor-
tunity of appearing with orchestral accompani-
ment. This is a unique opportunity which is not
available in many communities.

A Community Chorus
in a Small City

By GEORGE SYME, JR.
Superintendent of Recreation

Auburn. New York

L'src PROGRAMS in a small city present some
M unusual and interesting problems. We are
often told that only large metropolitan areas can
develop and support symphonies,
choruses, and similar musical or-

ganizations. Those of us who live and work in
small cities and have tried programs of this nature
have found this idea to be false. Careful plan-
ning and hard work will give your city a splendid
musical program. This year, we should see in
America the finest musical programs in its history.
Recreation directors who have done nothing to
promote the musical side of their activities should
make their first endeavor this coming season. A

real thrill and sense of satisfaction awaits them in
their venture.__

In Auburn, New York, the coming of fall has
ushered in the third season of our Community
Chorus. The chorus is an associate program of the
Recreation Commission. This year we are limiting
our chorus to a membership of one hundred, pri-
marily because the size of stages in Auburn re-
stricts the number of people appearing in musical
costume programs. However, this is a long way
from our simple beginning. Let us go back briefly
to the period when we first decided to launch this
new organization. Possibly there are others who
may benefit from our experiences.

First, we found a few people who were inter-
ested in this project—interested enough to devote
their time to making it a success. This was a slow
process, but our careful and thorough search
brought us golden returns. No finer and more in-

 

006 SOME .MUSIC ORGANIZATIONS FOR YOUTH

terested group was ever assembled than those
present for our first meeting. The problem of
creating interest in a program of this nature was
first discussed by these young musical enthusi—
asts and the following plan of 'promotion was
developed:

A director must be selected who would meet
with the approval of the majority. It was also
decided to experiment with the program for a
period of two months. As it was then late in
March, the first season would be shortened. More
important, it gave the committee the opportunity
to check their selection of a director and to de—
termine the interest among the members. The
committee also felt that two months would be bet—
ter than an entire season with a director who
might not “click.” Then too, if the members were
not enthusiastically behind this chorus program,
considerable money would be saved by not ven-
turing into a full season.

The next step saw our committee go into action.
A competent director was secured. Incidentally,
he was a resident of Syracuse which meant that
he came to us with “no strikes” against him. Per—
haps you will find, as we did, that the out-of—town
director becomes an authority and adds prestige to

the group.

In obtaining members, the committee decided to
use the telephone system—~a more personal touch
from every standpoint. This method was success-
ful both from the committee’s point of view and
from that of the individuals invited. The com-
mittee was able to be selective, and the invited
persons felt selected. Don’t we all thrive on per—
sonal recognition? If the new venture were suc—
cessful, this small but basic organization would
provide a splendid foundation for a much larger
chorus.

Early in May the first rehearsal was held. The
initial gathering was discouraging, but by the end
of June about forty members had been obtained
by this “personalized procedure.” During the last
week in June this group gave its first concert. No
tickets were sold, but engraved invitations were
sent to over eight hundred’ people. The success of
this first concert was gratifying.

Rehearsals were called for the following Sep-
tember. The chorus was now almost twice its
original size. The membership had been increased
by three important means: (I) Sufficient space
had been allowed on the spring concert programs
for application blanks. These blanks were filled

in by interested persons and sent to the secretary;
(2) Newspaper publicity proved successful now
that the chorus was established. The “personaliz—
ed procedure” was no longer necessary; (3)
Members were urged to invite friends who would
enjoy such a leisure—time activity.

During the winter of this season, a successful
choral concert, featuring the Coleridge-Taylor
cantata, “Hiawatha’s Wedding Feast,” was given.
In June, 1940, the chorus staged “Happy-Go—
Lucky,” an Operetta written by William Cordt
VViederhold, director of the chorus.

We all appreciated the fact that a new program
producing an amateur show with a comparatively
small number of participants would draw only a
limited audience. To overcome this the executive
committee felt that it would be wise to have the
performance sponsored by some old and estab—
lished service organization in the city. The Au—
burn Rotary Club accepted the invitation. This
idea had a two-fold purpose: (I) The backing of
this influential group would add prestige to the
performance and a large audience resulted. This
gave the chorus added confidence and was of
great help in establishing the chorus in the com—
munity; (2) The Rotary Club would be able to
make a sum of money for its work with the un-
derprivileged. '

Arrangements were made for each group to sell
tickets. Money received from the sale of tickets
was retained by each organization. Proceeds from
tickets sold at the door were divided. Incidental
expenditures for the performance were shared
equaHy.

While preparations for this performance were
proceeding, a civic-minded citizen became inter-
ested in underwriting a performance for the un—
derprivileged children of the city. This invitation
was also extended to musically talented children
of the public and parochial schools. It gave the
chorus a little extra money toward expenses and

.provided an excellent opportunity for a practical

dress rehearsal. Both concerts were well received
and have definitely proved the value of the chorus
to the community.

\Ve anticipate that this third year’s program will
give the community a bigger and better musical
organization than ever before, and we hope this
simple story of our musical program will give
recreation directors in other small cities the en-
couragement to go on—on with America in the
biggest musical year in her history.

(Continued on page 631)

d

 

 

our queen and symbolize to
us our beautiful snow, we

give you the name of Agonkwa.
May you reign as long as the
snow falls!” With this Chippewa
greeting, Chief Megezence of the
Keweenaw Bay Indian Commu-
nity crowned Mary Margaret
Penhaligon the 1940 Winter Car-
nival Queen of Marquette, Mich-
igan. '

More than 3,000 people crowd-
ed into beautiful, ice—sculptured
Harlow Park to Watch the “Queen
of the Sparkling Snow” as she
stood before a twenty-five foot
snow tepee to receive her crown
from the Chippewa chieftain.
Her coronation and adoption into
the tribe climaxed the seven—day
snow and ice carnival sponsored
by the Marquette Winter Sports
Club and known officially as
“Aurora Borealis over an Indian
Village.”

For the second year the sports
club had chosen the great North-
ern Lights as the theme of the
carnival. Nowhere in the United
States do these natural search- '
lights play as beautifully as in
this Upper Peninsula region of Mich-
igan. On cold nights the shimmering
sheets of light add an eerie and awe-
inspiring atmosphere to this natural
winter sports area. During the car-
nival, subdued electric beams, pat-

"SINCE YOU have been chosen

terned after the Aurora Borealis, played over the
wigwams and council fires of the mythical village

which had been set up in the park.

The Indian theme was carried out in the snow
l sculptures which dotted the area. The thunderbird,
firefly, and eaglet became patterns for both snow
figures and costumed carnival participants. Ice
and snow artists carved statues of famous chief-
‘ tains, wigwams, canoes, papooses, owls, deer, rab-
| bits, “the end of the trail,” and “prayers for rain.”

 

The beautiful ribbon
work on the robe ot
the "Queen of the
Sparkling Snow" was
done by Indians of
the Chippewa tribe

And throughout the village the
howl of war whoops and rhyth-
mic throbbing of tom-toms ush—
ered in the week of sports and
festivities.

Against this tribal setting the
sports carnival was planned to
honor the American Indian. I11
addition to the usual events of a
winter carnival — skiing, skating,
tobogganing, hockey and snow-
shoeing—Indian games and sports
were introduced. Lacrosse, snow
snake, Kawasa, ice arrow, toggle.
and chunky found their places on
the programs of the neighbor—
hood playgrounds and rinks
where local carnivals and contests
were held throughout the week.

This annual carnival is a com-
munity event and citizens from
six to sixty cooperate to make it
a success. An Indian art special-
ist and a local authority on myths
and legends offered their services.
Collections of Indian curios and
exhibits of native arts and crafts
were arranged and set up in com-
munity centers and libraries. Pro—
grams of dancing and music Were
presented by Indian residents.

A representative from the In—
dian Field Service gave demonstra-
tions of Indian ice games, and a spe-
cialist from Washington gave an in-
terview and radio talk on the hand-
crafts and arts of the Woodland In-
dian tribes. Students at the Northern

State Teachers College attended a special assem—
bly program of Indian lore and culture given by

Charles Eagle Plume, outstanding interpreter of

tribal customs.

Activity clubs throughout the city based their
February programs on the carnival theme. Many
of them studied Indian handcrafts and then worked
out authentic costumes for the coronation and

‘ pageant.
Winter sports enthusiasm in Marquette was

607

(>08 AURORA HOREALIS OVER MICHIGAN

bolstered by a proclamation
of the mayor for a Fun
Police Day sponsored by
the Mining Journal. On
this occasion the entire
town wore winter sports
clothes and every citizen
who was not dressed for
sports by 1:00 P. M. was
tried before a mock court.

Immediately after the crowning of the Snow
Queen, on Friday evening, the spectators moved
to the Palestra .lceRink where an elaborate In-
dian ice ceremonial was staged. Music and pag-
eantry laid the historical setting at the indoor rink.
Surrounded by the chiefs, the Queen reviewed
skating events from an elevated throne at the
north end of the rink. A council Ere burned in
one corner and a circle of young braves beat in—
termittently on tom—toms. In a huge white tepee,
the legendary home of Mongo and Wasaqua, the
star skaters waited to perform in the single and
double iigure skating numbers of "Why the Pine
Tree Weeps.”

Indian dances were transcribed into skating
numbers and set to authentic tribal music. Agen-
cies of the state, county, and city cooperated in an
effort to make the pageant an accurate portrayal

And this year plans are under way for the
third annual winter carnival to be known
as "Aurora Borealis over the U.S.A." Pa-
triotism will. be the theme of the week'
and the flickering northern lights of Mich-
igan's Upper Peninsula will once more light
up snowbound parks and playgrounds. glit-
tering ice rinks and gaily costumed sports-
men—this time to the music of "America."

of the Indian customs of
Hiawathaland, the home of
North Michigan’s Indians.
Against the triumphant beat-
ing of the tom-toms, buck-
skin costumed skaters per
formed a firefly waltz, In—
dian war dance, comic
stunts, doll dance, hunting
party, and an Indian marriage ceremony. Most of
the dances and stories had been adapted from the
legends of the Indians who live in this lake com-
munity, the Chippewas, Menominees, Potawat—
tamis, and Ottawas.

This make-believe village peopled by white-
feathered winter sports enthusiasts replaced the
Eskimo ice city which had been the scene of the
first Marquette carnival in 1939. Just one year
before, Harlow Park had been a polar pleasance
of igloos, seals, and polar bears ruled over by
King Winter and the Eskimo Queen. Where the
council tires bumed in the Palestra, there had
been a wintry Alpine village of Tyrolean charac—
ters and Swiss skaters.

If you are interested in winter sports and have ‘
not seen the December 1940 issue of RECREATION,
you will wish to know it is devoted to this subject. '

 

...
p n F v .
._ . ,.¢ 1 a a ' n A a . o
 m- ..- o ,. 1.x”. -x .- o ..-s _ s . . ' , ,, » ... ._ s».
an“ - I I' . n1 ‘ Wm..- I be "' x'I . I- i “at "'A "a. “32‘ are. meu "m'f‘h «er-nun“

Courtesy Winter Sports Club, Marquette, Michigan

l

‘ l
’ l
t

 

NDOUBTEDLY. if St. Val-
U entine could see the tra-
ditions which have en-
veloped his birthday, he would
throw up his hands in amaze-
ment and consternation. Saint
Valentine, you see, was a sim-
ple, pious bishop who merely
let his birthday be used in
“improving” a pagan festival.
And thus “Valentine’s Day”
began — but how it has

changed! The good man would never recognize his

birthday in its present guise.

As in the past, groups still assemble to enjoy
this quaint holiday which never loses its charm.
Hang up the red cardboard hearts and send out
your invitations—4 or even so-called young moderns
abandon sophistication in favor of the sentimental,

I old-fashioned Valentine party.

' ribbon, cut-out de-

nvitation is desired.
‘ One might, for in-

Invitations in the shape of red or white hearts

or other holiday symbols,
mounted or unmounted, are
attractive, yet easily made. The
invitation itself could be in red
or white ink depending on
color of paper used. Seals, bits
of colored cord or

signs, paper lace
doilies and pieces
of metallic or col-
ored paper can be ‘
used effectively if a
more elaborate in—

stance, write the in-
vitation on a long
narrow strip of

COUHTLESS Us,
FRIENDLY Us.

By CLARK FREDRIKSON

National Recreation Association

The party described here has been
prepared with the needs ot a large
group in mind. and with games and
activities leading from one into the
other. But that will not prevent you
from using these suggestions at smal-
ler community parties. club and home
parties, and other holiday gatherings.

   

paper and wrap it around a
candy kiss, then cover with
silver paper wrapped and
twisted in approved candy kiss
style. To one end attach a
small card with guest’s name.
Perhaps the least expensive is one printed on a

rectangular piece of heavy paper (the size of a

regulation correspondence card) which is dec—
orated with seals and cut-outs.

If individual invitations are not used, these sug
gestions are easily adapted to posters and bulletin
board announcements.

Just as a novelty, why not require the guests

The lines suggested are appropriate
no matter what the type ot invita-
tion used. Small red hearts, seals.
or drawn. are substituted tor the
word "heart" wherever it occurs.

COME ONE '— COME ALL

BE PREPARED TO HAVE. A Q-Y GOOD TIME!

YOURS V—ILY
DATE
TIME

 

HONEYED Us

COMPLIMENTARY Vs
Lonva Us, MATEO Us, HUNGRY Us
No MATTER WHAT YOUR V CONDITION

to present “tickets of admission" at the door? The
ticket may be a valentine which
is collected and placed in a
mail bag or gaily decorated box
at the entrance to the party
room. Have on hand a few
valentines for emergency use,

to make sure that
no one is left out
when valentines are
distributed. Then,
too, if guests -are
not interested in
keeping their val-
entines, ask them to
deposit them in the
box again for dis-
tribution to local
hospitals and chilr
dren’s institutions.

609

()lU

Few are the families who do not have boxes
stored in attic and cupboard corners containing
01d and treasured valentines. You might ask your
guests to bring their collections. These will make
an unusual and interesting display. Remember
that these treasures should be properly displayed,
carefully watched and protected. It might be well
to inform guests that these precautions will be
taken.

Decorations

Red and white! This is really a striking color
combination which lends itself to attractive and
effective decorative arrangements. Paper hearts,
cupids, bows and arrows and other holiday motifs
of all sizes can be used in innumerable ways in
decorating the party hall. A novel decoration con-
sists of picturesque heart entrances through which
guests must pass to reach the party room. Make
heart frames of heavy wire which fit in doorway
openings. Wrap with red crepe paper or inex—
pensive cloth and suspend in the middle of open—
ing doorways by wire. Spaces where the hearts
and doorways do not meet are either filled with
narrow twisted white paper festoons or cheese—
cloth fastened to the wire frame with thread and
the inner door frame with small tacks. Over each
doorway tack this verse:

WARNING!

Watch your step
For the truest word ’ere spoken
Is that hearts are easily broken,
Watch your step!

Nail kegs, butter tubs, and other wooden con-
tainers painted in red and white and. containing
“heart trees” make effective side wall decorations.
These are nothing more than bare tree branches
to which paper hearts of different sizes are at-
tached with varying lengths of colored string or
ribbon. The trees are held in place by “planting”
them in sand, soil, or coal—covered up, of course.
Silhouettes cut from mat stock or heavy wrapping
paper can effectively be repeated in wall decora-
tions. Pictures of famous lovers would interest
many.

Overhead decorations should be gay festoons
and balloons or, perhaps, many sizes of paper
hearts suspended on string or thread. Interesting
effects may also be gained by the use of colored
lights and light shades with appropriate holiday
emblems added for effect. To add to the party
atmosphere paper caps, bows, sashes, and bouton—
nieres might be handed out, or even made at the
party. Because of the popularity of costume par-

A “HEARTY” VALENTINE PARTY

ties in many communities you may want to en-
courage your guests to wear costumes or street
clothes which are red and white or have touches
of these colors. Red and white dresses, aprons,
trousers, neckties, ribbons, and sashes usually have
their nook in every wardrobe.

The Guests Arrive

The party begins the minute the first guest ap—
pears. The following games and stunts for early
arrivals should help your party get off to a really
good start!

Guests will enjoy trying to guess the number
of candy hearts in a glass jar. Place the jar on a
table, beside it a pencil and a sheet of paper where
everyone can record the number'of hearts he
thinks are in the jar.

\Vhat is in my heart? Alas, that’s a question
few can answer yet everyone wants to know! Let
Cupid psycho-analyze your guests. Small muslin
bags or paper envelopes are partially filled with
food, spices, and other ingredients from the cook’s
cupboard and pantry shelf. To each attach one
paper heart, red for girls, and white for the men,
bearing a fortune. Place all of the bags or en-
velopes in a large container, perhaps the shape of
a large heart. Let guests draw their fortune from
the container. They are to be replaced. You may
want to use the following suggestions; however,
prepare others.

Verses for girls:
A spinster you will surely be

So just console yourself with tea. (tea)

You’ll wed a man of sterling worth

The salt, as we would say, of earth. (salt)

A peppery mate you’ll surely find '
A man who likes to “speak his mind.” (pepper)

You’ll wed a farmer, it is plain
And live amid the fields of grain. (puffed wheat)

Verses for men:
Your happiness will 'be complete
For you will wed a maiden sweet. (sugar)

You’ll win a wife both good and wise

And in the world you’ll surely rise. (baking powder)
Great joy will surely be your dower
You’ll find a bride fair as a flower. (flour)

The boy who draws this lump of sweet
This very night his love will meet. (lump sugar)

Finding the way to your heart can be done as a.

revised version of pinning the tail on the donkey”
Cut a large red heart from wrapping paper and on,

it paste a small gold paper keyhole. Give blind— l
folded players gold cardboard keys and have them '

find the keyhole. For some it may prove to be at

1

A “HEAR'I‘Y” VALENTINE PART)" ()ll

' long search. Large paper bags which fit over the
head make excellent blindfolds.

If silhouettes of famous lovers are used as wall
decorations, give players paper and pencils and
have them identify each. The pictures should be
numbered.

The Winners might receive inexpensive prizes—-

candy hearts, lollipops, polished red apples, bou- .

tonnieres of real or artificial flowers.

Grand March

For a large crowd where there is plenty of room
a grand march provides a simple way of forming
a circle and pairing partners. It can at the same
time be much fun. Girls stand in a file on one
side of the room and men on the other, all facing
' the same direction. Couples meet as the lines come
together in the center of the room. The march
,_ and the games which follow will prove a lively
,- part of the evening program. If the party is a
l costume affair, there is certainly no better time
than to have the guests pass in review before the
King and Queen of Hearts, so that their majesties
may pass judgment and select the most attractive
and appropriate costumes.

Circle Games

Heart Condition. Players in circle formation,
girls standing on right side of partners. The
leader, without previous study or practice, be-
comes a heart specialist and informs the party

. guests of his interest in knowing the condition of
' each person's heart. He gives each person a piece
, of typewriter paper. With both hands behind their
backs, players tear out a heart. Warn them that
the paper cannot be folded. Have each player
wear his heart and award a special “health certifi-
cate” to the person whose heart is in the best
l condition. Present a bottle of tonic to the person
with the most “battered “heart.” Have a waste
" basket convenient to receive “heart shavings.”
" Variation : Give each player a piece of paper and
i a pin. Allow group two or three minutes for prick-
 ing the outline of a heart on the paper. (No pat-
i erns oi” measuring permitted.) When pricking is

completed, tear off surplus paper, leaving heart.

Matching Hearts. Prepare two identical sets of
paper hearts, one of red and the other white.
There should be as many hearts in each set as
there are guests. Number each set consecutively.
[The players are in circle formation. Give each
player a red heart. The leader who stands in the

center of the circle holds the set of white hearts.
These are shuffled. At a given signal, players in
circle pass their red paper hearts to the right, but

at leader’s signal, passing stops. The leader then
calls out the number of the white heart on top of

the set which he is holding. This heart is then
pinned on the player holding the duplicate number.
The game continues until all of the leader’s hearts
are distributed. Award small prize to player with
greatest number. To make the game even more
exciting, one number may be omitted from both
sets and a black heart included in the red set.
When signals are given for passing to stop, the
player holding the black heart might be asked to
make a forfeit. During the progress of the game
no player should be permitted to hold more than
one red heart when leader's numbers are called.

Mending Hearts. Various sized hearts should
be cut from different colored construction paper
or cardboard. Cut them in half, using a distinc-
tive and different jagged line on each, putting the
left halves in a box (for the girls) and the other
halves in another box (for the men). Couples are
in a large double circle formation facing clockwise
with men in inner circle. Each girl and man
selects half hearts from the respective boxes
which are passed around the circles. Players
march while music is being played. When the
music suddenly stops or at some other given sig-
nal, players stop walking. The men remain stand-
ing while the girls move up one to a new partner.
\Vhen a man finds he is marching with the girl
who has the other half of his heart, they retire
from the circle. The marching and change of
partners continues until all have matched hearts.

Relays

To My Valentine! Teams of even numbers line
up side by side behind a starting line. The equip-
ment for each team consists of blackboard space
and colored chalk. If blackboards and chalk are
not available, large sheets of white paper on the
wall and crayons can be substituted. At a given
signal, the first player on each team runs to the
blackboard twenty-Eve feet away. There he picks
up a piece of chalk, draws a large heart, and re—
turns to the starting point. The second man re—
turns to the blackboard and adds a lacy edging
t0 the valentine. Players repeat the performance,
each adding his artistic contribution. Arrows,
small hearts, flowers, cupids, and good luck charms
are but a few symbols that can be added to the

612

valentines. The last player may be asked to add a
short verse. Lollipops in the shape of hearts
could be awarded to the team which finishes first.
The group whose drawing is most attractive also
warrants special recognition. You may want to
give each team a minute or two to plan its valen-
tine before the relay begins, or, if you prefer,
assign “parts” to the members of each team.

Heart Strings. Partners on each team line up in
files behind a starting line. Give the first couple
of each team a white cardboard dart on which
several yards of red cord have been fastened and
wound. To the loose end of the cord attach a red
cardboard heart. At the signal to start, the girl
takes the heart and walks away from her partner
who remains standing, unwinding the string as
she goes. When the girl has walked as far as the
cord will permit, the man starts after her, winding
the cord on the dart again. When fully wound,
the dart is handed to the next couple in line and
the performance is repeated. This relay will cer—
tainly test your guests’ dexterity.

Heart Relay. Give the first players of each team
an inflated red balloon. At a signal, each contest-
ant with one hand bats his “heart” around a
designated goal and back and gives his balloon to
the next player on the team. The performance is
repeated. If the balloon touches the fioor during
the race, the contestant must return to the starting
point and begin all over again. This game can also
be used as a partner relay with players linking
inside arms. Allow them only the use of outside
hands in batting balloons. Everyone will be sur-
prised to see where a batted balloon will go!

Paper and Pencil Games

For these games provide players or groups of
players with red pencils and plain sheets of white
paper, heart—shaped if you like.

Telegram Proposals and Refusals. Using the word
V-A-L-E—N-T-I-N-E groups of not more than five
players write a telegram which is a proposal of
marriage. Each word of the telegram should begin
with a letter in the word Valentine. For example,
the first word should begin with V the second with
A, and so on. When the telegrams have been
completed, let representatives from each group in
turn read their messages. To add to the merri-
ment, let the same groups exchange messages and
draft refusals, using the same word. For this
stunt secure a supply of telegram blanks from
your local telegraph office or station agent.

A “HEARTY” VALENTINE PARTY

Dear Valentine. Turn out the lights and ask
each player to draw a heart on a piece of paper.
They will perhaps expect you to turn on the lights
to view their work of art, but not yet! After each
has drawn a heart and you are sure that pencils no
longer touch drawing paper, ask each guest to
draw an arrow piercing the center of the heart, a
Cupid holding the heart, a good luck symbol, and
as a final touch, add a short sentimental verse.
Turn on the lights, exhibit the masterpiece and
prepare for a good laugh. In all, probably the
arrow will very likely hit any mark other than the
intended one.

Word Formation. Provide small groups with
sheets of paper listing the suggestions noted below.
Allow space for the answers which are words
formed from letters found in the word “Valen-
tines.”

11. False statement

12. River in Egypt

13. A building spot

14. To make fast

15. Worn with a hat

16. Part of a fork

17. Used on cuts and bruises
18. Stories

19. Before ten

1. Time before Easter

2. Roofing material

3. A number

4. Made by birds

5. Public stopping-place
6. Used in fishing

7. Son of Jacob

8

. Opposite of good
9. Small body of land

10. A plant
The answers: 1. Lent. 2. Tile. 3. Ten. 4. Nest. 5. Inn.
6. Line. 7. Levi. 8. Evil. 9. Isle. 10. Vine. 11. Lie.

12. Nile. 13. Site. 14. Tie. 15. Veil. 16. Tines. 17. Salve.
18. Tales. 19. Nine.

Variation: Let each player or small group see
how many three-letter words they can make out
of the word “valentine” in a given period of time.

Valentine Poetry. Let groups in a limited period
of time write Valentine Day verse. These are
later read to the entire group.

Mating Secret. If a girl wants to marry a Scots-
man she wears plaid to catch his eye. What
would she wear to catch each of the following?

Artist Canvas
Barber Mohair
Baseball player Batiste
Confectioner Taffeta
Financier Cashmere
Fisherman Net
Banker Checks
Gardener Lawn
Milkman Jersey
Musician Organdie
Undertaker Crepe
Prisoner Stripes
Hunter Duck
Editor Prints

It
i

A “HEARTY” VALENTINE PARTY 613

Jumbled Love. Distribute to guests paper hearts
on which are typed or written the following groups
of jumbled letters. See who can arrange each
group so that it will spell a word in a lover’s

vocabulary.

p 1. 061V Love

2. Pucid Cupid

3. Tchma Match

4. Dgeidnw \Vedding
5. Hioprstuc Courtship
6. Nmeocra Romance
7. Rovles Lovers

8. Aeshtr Hearts

9. Eleovrtu True love
10. Hteeewarts Sweetheart
11. Tahresaceh Heartaches
12. Lapsopro Proposal

Stunts

"Chain Gang Cupies." Here is an intriguing
event which involves much more than just collect-
' ing hearts, though, to be sure, guests do look for
' small numbered paper hearts which are- hidden
‘l throughout the party hall. Divide the guests, how-
ever, into groups of five and provide each with a
piece of string six feet long. After each group
a. has tied itself together in chain gang fashion they
are given a theme song such as “Let Me Call You
. Sweetheart,” “I Love You Truly,” “My Bonnie
Lies Over the Ocean,” or some other song appro—
priate to festive occasions. The hunt begins! No
group is allowed to pick up a heart until it has
sung in unison its theme song. As soon as it has
done this, it may pick up the heart, but not before.
This must be repeated at every heart discovered.
At the end of the game each group finds the total
score of the numbers noted on the hearts col-
lected. Surprise! Pay special recognition to the
group having the lowest score. Have the quintette
i‘ with the highest score sing for the assembled
audience.

‘ Yes and No. Each guest is given a pin and a
I‘ small red or white paper heart which is to be worn
t in plain view. During the remainder of the eve—
" ning no one must answer a question in the direct
affirmative or negative using yes or no, o.k., sure,

I all right. or other such words. If players do, they
must forfeit their hearts to the person who asked
the question. If players lose their hearts they still
can win others. There is no limit to the number
which one might capture. The game may con—
]tinue throughout the remainder of the evening.
Award a small prize at the end of the evening to
the one wearing the largest number. Nodding or

shaking of head permitted.

Music

No special day affords a more fitting time for
the singing of old-time sentimental songs. These
songs are so well known that everyone will want
to join in the singing. An interesting music
memory contest could be easily worked out around
them. Groups may be called upon to sing and
dramatize these popular melodies. Songs accom—
panied by tableaux with players wearing old-fash—
ioned costumes are always effective. Some popular
songs are:

Sweet Rosie O’Grady
Seeing Nellie Home

My Wild Irish Rose

Peggy O’Neil

Annie Laurie

Aunt Dinah’s Quilting Party
Love’s Old Sweet Song
Juanita

When Irish Eyes Are Smiling

Roamin’ in the Gloamin’

Let Me Call You Sweetheart
Comin’ Thru the Rye

Dancing

In the sixteenth century the proper ceremony
for St. Valentine’s Day was still the drawing of
maiden’s names. In the villages throughout Eng-
land and Scotland an equal number of bachelors
and maids assembled. Each girl drew a man’s
name and each youth a maiden’s, this giving every-
one two “Valentines” for the ball which followed.
Because of this old custom of drawing one’s part-
ners we now ask, “\Vill you be my valentine ?"

If there is to be dancing at your party, you will
certainly want to have a number of dances during
the evening when partners are allotted by chance.
It will also be fun to go back into the past and
resurrect a few stately old dance steps including
that old favorite the Virginia Reel. They will fit
in very nicely between the modern dance steps of
the day. The following suggestions are means of
matching partners and introducing a bit of for-
mality into your dance program.

Broken Hearts. Give each girl a heart which she

tears jaggedly in two. She keeps one half and
places the other half in a container. Those in the
container are drawn by the men. Each man finds
for his dance partner the girl holding the other

half of his heart.

Famous Lovers. One way to match partners is
to give each girl a card on which is written the
name of a famous woman. Give to each man a

614 A “HEARTY” VALENTINE PARTY

card with the name of a gentleman associated with
one of these women. Each hero then finds his
heroine. Jack and Jill, Adam and Eve, Romeo and
Juliet, Dante and Beatrice, Pyramus and Thesbe,
Anthony and Cleopatra, and others.

Favor Dance. Caps are very satisfactory favors
and add much to the fun because they can be made
in matching colors and shapes so that they can be
used to match partners for a dance. The hats may
be numbered in duplicate and matched by numbers
instead of by color and style.

Heart Elimination. Provide each person with a
numbered heart. There should be duplicates of
each number, the number of each depending Upon
the size of the party. At intervals the music stops
and the leader calls out a number. The dancer
holding that number leaves the floor. Dancers left
without partners couple up or dance alone until
another number has been called and a partner
located.

Balloon Dance. Tie inflated balloons on the right
wrist of every girl or on her right ankle. Each
couple attempts to preserve its “heart” yet break
those of others. Couples leave the dance floor
when balloons are broken. If balloons are tied to
ankles, provide plenty of string so that feet are
not trampled during the dance.

Matching Verse. Cut red paper hearts in two
jagged sections and write one line of a matching
couplet on each. One set of “broken hearts” are
distributed to the girls, the other to the gentlemen.
Partners are matched by fitting the hearts to-
gether and completing the two—line rhymes. A
few suggestions are:

This Valentine’s a gold key—It opens up my heart to thee

Your love it sets my heart aflutter—And yet I can do
naught but stutter

To tell my love I long to try—But when I start my
throat goes dry

I’ll promise never more to whine—If you will be my
Valentine

I seem to have an awful hunch—I’d choose you out of
all the bunch

This Valentine I give to thee—For you are Queen of
Hearts to me

Rose and Lemon. A rose, artificial or real, is
passed about from one girl to another. Likewise
a lemon is passed between men. Dancers must
take them when offered, and no couple should be
holding both articles at the same time. At a given
signal the girl and man holding the rose and lemon
are asked to come forward. The man on bended
knee is instrUcted to present his lady friend with a

box of candy. But wait, after the presentation, he
is instructed that the bill for the candy still re-
mains to be paid. What a surprise that will be.

Couple Off. Prepare two sets of paper hearts,
one being red in color and the other white. On
one heart from each set write the verse which
follows and a stunt which the player will do in
pantomime to hnd his next dance partner, such as
pretending to drive an automobile.

To find your true love cross your heart
He (she) will be doing the same.

The hearts are distributed by mail carriers from
bags slung over their shoulders — red for the
ladies, white for the gentlemen. At a given signal
everyone begins to pantomime the stunt suggested
on their heart, at the same time moving about the
party hall searching for their partner. Other sug-
gested stunts: chopping wood, shoot an arrow,
swim, fly, shadow box, lead an orchestra, paddle
a canoe, ice skate, or Walk a tight rope.

Refreshments

After an evening of fun and frolic you may be
sure that everyOne will respond to a summons for
refreshments and no other holiday seems to offer
as many ideas for party “eats” that are different.
Your table and refreshments can be just as gay
and elaborate as you wish them to be. Sandwiches
cut in heart shapes and spread with strawberry
jam and cream cheese; cakes and cookies cut in
the shape of hearts, arrows or cupids and iced
and trimmed in red and white frostings and can-
dies; red cinnamon baked apples; salads with lots
of red cherries; fruit ices; ice creams; gelatins in
heart molds—these are just a few suggestions.
Fruit punches and hot chocolate are always popu-
lar beverages. Candy hearts with fortunes also
have a place on the refreshment table.

An appropriately decorated refreshment table
might be set up at one end of the social hall or in 1
another room. White and red checkered table ;
cloths or decorated paper napkins and plates will '
help carry out the holiday theme. Red and white
flowers and candles or shiny red apples arranged
in copper or wooden bowls make effective center—
pieces.

Then after refreshments it is time for the
merry-makers to depart, but they will go re-
luctantly! And although the good Saint Valentine :
might be embarrassed at this use of his birthday. 
he, too, would probably have enjoyed the evening’s
frolic, could he have been present!

Pioneering in Municipal Recreation

01‘ MANYIyeaI'S ago
N traders, hunters,
gold seekers,
homesteaders and ad-
venturers led the trek
0f pioneers to the land of the

shining mountains. Heralded
for its natural majestic beauty

and has developed into
a modern city with a
population of 30,000.
Recreational pioneer-
ing for Montana was
started in Great Falls and re-
sulted in the establishment of

Great Falls is iustly proud of the fact
it was the first city in Montana to es-
tablish year-round municipal recreation

By FRANK C. KAMMERLOI—IR
Superintendent of Recreation
Great Falls. Montana

by explorers, both previous

to and after the Lewis and

Clark expedition, Montana with her large expanse
of mountain area and her flowing plains is a state
sparsely settled in comparison with other states.

The traders have disappeared along with the
commercial hunters. Mining has given Montana
the name of the Treasure State with copper com-
ing from Butte, the richest hill in the world, gold,
silver and many other minerals contributing to the
yearly income. Homesteaders and adventurers
settled and developed the cattle, sheep and agri-
cultural industries of the state. Mining led to the
establishment of the smelting, refining and process-
ing industries which form an integral part of the
life of the people, while oil and natural gas have
been developed within recent years.

Large cities, in the real sense of the word, have
not developed in the state, Butte being the largest
with a population of nearly 40,000. Great Falls,
Billings, Missoula, Helena and others follow in
order, while a large number of small communities
exist, some formerly cow towns, others, reminders

of the free land movement of the pre-World War
era.

Situated on the banks of the Missouri river,
just above a series of cascades and rapids known
as the great falls of the Missouri, is the city of
Great Falls. In the heart of the territory once held
by the Blackfeet nation, Great Falls is flanked on
the west and the south by mountain ranges, while
on the north and east extend great plains which are
occasionally broken by smaller mountain ranges.

Four large hydro-electric plants harness the
great falls of the Missouri within twenty miles,
providing the bulk of the power needs for the
Anaconda Copper Mining Company’s plants in
Great Falls, Helena and Butte. As a distribution
center, Great Falls serves a radius of one hundred
miles and a population close to 125,000. The com-
munity celebrated its fiftieth anniversary in 1939,

the first municipal recreation
department in the state, al-
though several other com-
munities, through public, private, and federal
funds, have seasonal activities or fundamental
year-round programs. The development in Great
Falls can be traced over a twelve year period dur-
ing which nearly all of the organizations in the
community entered into the promotion.

Previous to the innovation of organized recreav
tion activities, one playground, without leadership,
was in operation with the usual equipment of
swings, slides and teeter-totters. In 1938, the
American Legion initiated the junior baseball pro-
gram as part of the national organization, and this
has continued with the yearly success varying with
the method of handling the activity. During the
same year the Protective and Benevolent Order of
Elks recognized the need for more play areas and
facilities. They established several areas and
equipped them, but the lack of leadership caused
these sites to be damaged and little used.

These two endeavors, however, did much to
awaken the community to the needs and the ad—
vantages of play areas and leadership, and for
several years much time was spent by various or-
ganizations in discussing recreation. During this
time field representatives of the National Recrea-
tion Association assigned to county extension work
in Montana met with these groups and brought a
broader knowledge of recreation to the individuals
interested.

For a number of years the Great Falls high
school had had little success in interscholastic ath-
letic competition. This was disappointing to com—
munity pride inasmuch as the city was the sec—
ond largest in the state and had the largest public
high school. In an endeavor to build up the ath-
letic program, the Advertising Club organized a
grade school football program with the assistance
of volunteer leadership. This program carried
through for several years and demonstrated to a

615

616 I’IONEERING IN MUNICIPAL RECREATION

 

Mixed volleyball for high school boys
and girls proved an interesting activity

large number of the younger
men in the community the
great value of and need for supervised activity.

Summer Playgrounds Established

During the winter of 1932, the Parents and
Teachers Association made an intensive survey of
the problem of a summer playground program,
and for the first year a program was conducted.
The Junior League provided the necessary funds
while the Girl Scouts and Camp Fire Girls fur—
nished volunteer leadership on the play areas. The
Y.M.C.A. developed some summer activities,
while the athletic phase was cared for by a high
school instructor employed by the Junior League
for the summer months. The volunteers worked
for two week periods at several locations through-
out the community. '

This first summer program met with the ap-
proval of the children as well as the adults. As a
result of this program, a steering grOUp known as
the Cascade County Child Welfare Association,
was organized during the following winter, and a
program was planned. The second summer pro-
gram was financed by the Junior League, and vol-
unteer leadership was used with the exception of
several school people employed as leaders.

In 1934, the newly organized Junior Chamber
of Commerce joined in the financial support of the
program and started a two year project of erecting

play apparatus on all school it

grounds. The Junior League I
again contributed to the employment of leaders .

and the various organizations provided volunteer
leadership. Toward the close of the summer, the
Federal Emergency Relief Administration pro-

vided additional leadership and the first federal

assistance to the development.
The erection of playground equipment on school

areas was completed during the following year, as i

the city of Great Falls and the School District con-
tributed funds to the Junior Chamber of Com-

merce project. The Junior League financed the ;
supervised summer program as the amount of vol- '
unteer leadership decreased and the assistance '

from the F ERA increased. The program was be-
coming too large to handle on a volunteer basis so

several individuals were employed to supervise I

and plan the activities.

The Athletic Program
With the exception of the American Legion

junior baseball program and the grade school foot- u

ball program, which by this time had been taken
over by the Junior Chamber of Commerce, who
were having an increasingly difficult problem to

supply experienced volunteer leadership for foot- -,

a
. l

ball, the athletic activities of the community were
operated by self—organized groups or other or—
ganizations and had no connection with the recre-

PIONEERING IN MUNICIPAL RECREATION

ation movement. The Y.M.C.A. conducted bas-
ketball, volleyball and softball programs for its
members. The only place available for basketball
and volleyball games was the Y gym which was
limited in the number of groups that could be
handled. The baseball activities were handled by
the leagues organized by those interested in the
sport, and all administration and maintenance was
carried on by them. Tennis activities had not been
expanded due to lack of facilities.

The Recreation Association Comes into Being

At the close of the summer program of 1935,
the individuals promoting a recreation program
realized that the situation resulting from many or-
ganizations and activities needed more specific
planning and direction. During the winter and

' spring of 1936, the Great Falls Recreation Asso—

ciation was organized at a meeting of representa-
tives of the various groups who had participated
in the experimental and promotional activities of
the preceding years. At this time the Division of
Recreation and Education of the “IPA presented
definite possibilities for project sponsorship.

The newly—organized association solicited funds
from organizations and in-
dividuals with which to con-
dUCt the coming summer

Each week the Pefer Pan Troubadour visited
all of +l'Ie eleven playgrounds to provide

music for folk dancing and singing games

()17

program, using \VPA and N YA leadership, and
also to develop three play fields which were to be-
come the nucleus of an out—of-door athletic pro—
gram. Realizing the need of trained leadership
and administration, the Association successfully
petitioned the school district to establish the posi-
tion of director of recreation in the school per—
sonnel in order that a full—time executive could be
obtained. \Vith the incorporating of the Associa—
tion, a definite budget became necessary, and the
Great Falls Welfare Association, in charge of the
annual Community Chest drive, accepted the ap-
plication of the recreation group and set up a
$2,200 budget for the first year’s work. "

The summer program of 1936 was initiated
with the dedication of the first playheld called the
JayCee field. This was followed by the completion
of the Elks and Junior League fields. These areas
were provided by the Great Falls Townsite Com—
pany, and the Association, through \VPA assist—
ance, erected needed facilities and graded the
fields. Although not pretentious or permanent,
these three fields have hlled the need for softball
and baseball diamonds, football and touch ball
fields, and for a winter skating program.

At this same time, a mu-
nicipal out-door swimming
pool, four tennis courts and

 

618 PIONEERING IN MUNICIPAL RECREATION

a girls’ playhouse were developed by the Park De-
partment under a WPA project. The tennis courts
were turned over to the recreation group to super-
vise, while the Camp Fire Girls and Girl Scouts
took charge of the girls’ play area, and the Park
Department operated the swimming pool. In the
space of one year, more outdoor recreation facili—
ties had been provided than had previously existed
in the community.

The program on the summer play areas spread
as the Junior League’s contribution was used to
employ local college girls as leaders under a VVPA
non—relief supervisor. The type of activities was
brdadened as handcraft and organized athletics
were incorporated into the basic playground ac-
tivities. The demonstration during this summer
was conclusive, as finances were provided by a
number of organizations and the community as a
whole was convinced of the value of the summer
playground program.

The Program Broadens

The position of director of recreation set up by
the school district was filled in September 1936,
and the budget made available by the Community
Chest went into effect during November as the
first demonstration of fall, winter and spring ac-—
tivities was started. The Junior Chamber of Com—
merce and the Junior League continued their
financial support as a year-round athletic program
was put into effect among the school boys and
girls on a combination intramural and inter-
scholastic basis. Evening community center activi—
ties were introduced in several neighborhoods
using school facilities which had been opened for
the first time to evening activities.

Arts and crafts were introduced for women
with classes held in school buildings, while a
series of special activities for boys and girls added
to the after-school playgrounds and school ath-
letics conducted under leadership. Some music ac-
tivity was developed, and harmonica bands were
organized at several schools. WPA and NYA
leadership was trained and developed through
courses provided locally and through the state
WPA program. Ten play areas were established
during the summer of 1937, including five tot lots
for youngsters eight years and under which were
conducted under the leadership of college girls
employed by the Junior League and supervised by
the Recreation Association. Five all~age play-
' grounds were established in the all-city program
which covered the community in a planned system.

Correlation of athletic activities resulted in or-
ganized leagues in football, touchball, basketball,
volleyball, bowling, baseball and softball. Adult
athletics were put on a sound basis, with leagues
for boys and girls developed for the first time in
several of the sports.

The first year—round program resulted in an in—
creased attendance as the community more and
more accepted the philosophy and ideals of a mu—
nicipal recreation program. AlthOUgh the program
under the Great Falls Recreation Association was
carried on partly by private funds and partly by
public funds, definite plans were made looking to-
ward a complete municipal department. The or-
ganization of the Recreation Association was based
on membership without dues, with anyone inter-
ested in the recreation movement being eligible for
that membership. Officers were elected annually,
and a council of six directors worked with the
officers. The directors were appointed for two
year terms with three terms expiring each year.
An additional member of the council came from
the School Board. This representation was im-
portant since the School District provided not only
facilities used in the program but also the director
of recreation.

The program continued to grow and expand
during the next two years as the budget provided
by the Community Chest was increased to $4,000.
and assistance given by the W PA was enlarged
and made more effective. Activities were in-—
creased to meet the needs of the community,
hockey and neighborhood skating areas being the
major expansion in physical activities during 1938.
The summer playground program remained the
same during this year with the exception of the
change of location of two play areas to improve
their drawing power. A lighted softball field
added to the'interest in the sport. '

Recreation Becomes a City Function

Promotion was started to change an existing
statute in the laws of Montana which provided a
mill levy with which to conduct band concerts for
any city or town. None of the cities over the
state using this levy consumed the whole mill, and
it was felt that this could be adjusted for use in
recreation and band concerts without meeting the
opposition of an increased mill levy. With the co-
operation from other communities in the state
which were gradually seeing the value of com—
munity programs, this change was made in the

( C ontimwd on page 632)

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Captain Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

ALS A IVOOD comes from a rapidly growing
Ecuador tree which may attain eighteen
inches in diameter within five years. Its light-

ness and softness is due to large, thin-walled cells.
It is estimated that nearly four million board feet
is used annually in this country for model air-
planes. When is recreation an industry? How
much of this is physical science and how much is
natural science?

Bear-Visitor Relations/zips. During the entire
season of 1940 in Yosemite National Park only
two persons were victims of “bear incidents.”
Bear hooliganism ranges from cuffing photograph-
ers to opening automobiles with can-opener claws.
A sign that reads “No bacon in this car” does no
good if it is a lie. Imprudent visitors sometimes
cause Bruin the death penalty. Gradually the
public is learning that they should not feed bears.

Biography. Jack Stuart Knapp, when in col-
lege, chose to major in zoology. While working
in the zoo he succeeded in managing a cantank-
erous old ape, a feat no one else had accomplished.
When two months had passed the zoology pro-
fessor called Jack to one side and informed him
that he should be an animal trainer and not a
zoologist. As many readers know, Jack went to
training actors. Your columnist had Jack as a
student at one of the first Recreation Schools, but

‘ it took all these years to extract this story. If any

reader can find a similar nature-gram about a rec-
reation worker let’s have it put on record!

Birds. The Cleveland Bird Club, Henry Mayer,
president, has a membership of over 600. In the
fall they had a memorial hike in honor of Dr.
Henry Turner Bailey, late dean of the Cleveland
School of Art. The hike was followed by a dinner,
lecture, and square dance. One hundred and sev-
enty-five attended the banquet. No “wizzled,”

r corner—sitting, one-tracked

minds—those !

Birds. Great Auk, last
seen in 1844. Labrador Duck,
last seen in 1872. Health
Hen, last seen on Martha’s
Vineyard Island, March 11,
1932. Passenger Pigeon, last

"Nature-Grams." says Dr. VinalI are
instruments through which you may give
life to your recreation program. Walt
Whitman. with his poet's insightI said
the same thing about music: 'All music
is what awakes from
are reminded by the instruments."'

one died in Cincinnati in 1914. A few Whooping
Cranes. Eskimo Curlews, and Ivory—billed Wood-
peckers remain. When will there be enough peo-
ple who care enough?

Blueberries. Growing blueberries as a sideline
hobby has interesting possibilities. Massachusetts
State College has an experimental blueberry farm
on Cape Cod. The fifteen varieties of blueberries
will be as common a vocabulary among future
blueberry fans as varieties of “glads” or pigeons
are among fanciers today.

Chemistry. The National Resources Planning
Board has listed 186 specialized fields in chemis—
try. Chemistry for recreation was not mentioned.
If we had a list of chemists who dabble in it for
fun, we believe that it would surprise even the
chemists. Also, the dabbler might have a place in
the program of defense.

Conservation. Conserving Farm Lands, Tom
Dale. Soil Conservation Service, 104 pp. 30 cents.
Organized teaching material which might help one
planning to convert non-agricultural land into a
specific recreation area.

Conservation. Teaching in Elementary Schools,
Effie G. BathUrst. Bulletin 1938, No. 14, U. S.
Office of Education, 125 pp. 20 cents. 1940.

Conservation. The Teacher Looks at Conser-
vation, O. E. Fink. State Department of Educa-
tion, Columbus, Ohio, 64 pp. The guiding prin-
ciples for leaders are called “Beacon Lights.” The
pamphlet, just out, emphasizes the necessity for
freedom to study out of doors, makes sugges—
tions flexible enough to be adjusted to other
states than Ohio, and has refreshing suggestions
of activities to develop under the title “Flashlight
Steps.”

Conservation Conference. The Connecticut
Forest and Park Association, a voluntary associa—
tion of people interested in
making Connecticut a better
place in which to live by pro—
perly developing its forests
and other outdoor resources,
announces its second annual

Conservation Conference at
Bond Hotel, Hartford, Feb-

619

you when you

620 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

ruary 5 and 6. The first day conservation will be
emphasized and the second day forestry, roadsides,
and nature recreation. ‘

Conservation Laboratory. In Ohio, theiState
Department of Education, the Division of Conser-
vation and Natural Resources, and Ohio State
University are giving leaders practical experience
in conservation. The camp is twenty miles east

of Chillicothe.

Conservation: Nature Recreation for Adults.
The Worcester, Massachusetts, Natural History
Society is starting a new-old venture in the an-
nouncement of forty-two non-academic courses.
There are no fees and no texts. All one has to do
is register. The program is dedicated “to the end
that knowledge concerning our nation’s natural
resources will contribute to making the apprecia-
tion of America a living force in the lives of her
citizens.”

Cranberries is the theme of the November, 1940,
Program Hints published by the Massachusetts
State College Extension Service. Stories, grow-
ing, films, pantomime, poems, games, and cran-
berry menus are included. Lawrence V. Loy, ex-
tension specialist in community recreation, is edi-

tor. His hints are as full of vitamins as his cran-
berries.

Day Camp, Cincinnati. In 1939 a total of 2,534
children (more than twice the 1938 number)
were transported to a wooded nature preserve for
- a day in camp. Nature games. Indian crafts, out-
door cooking, and nature adventures were activi-
ties offered. The Recreation Commission has
added a council ring and overnight camping as
added experiences. Robert J. Strauss, supervisor
of golf, has fostered nature activities from the
beginning in 1937. ’

Easter Lilies. Japan has been furnishing the
' U. S. with about $3,000,000 worth of Easter lily
bulbs annually. The all-American Easter lily will
probably be in v0gue this year. The U. S. Bureau
of Plant Industry, Beltsville, Maryland, is play-
ing an important part in this new industry. Rec—
reation—minded Americans may take an idea too.

Exploration. When Donald Macmillan was
eleven .he read about Elisha Kane searching the
Arctic in 1853 for the 129 men lost on the Sir
John Frankling Expedition. Kane wrote O. K.
with a lead bullet on a cap lining and hid it under
a cairn. Sixty-one years later Macmillan found
the cap that had inspired his career. There is a
suggestion in this story.

Field Trips. The board of education need not
confine education to a building. Outdoor courses
in athletics and gardening are precedents. The
safe-keeping of children is a responsibility. Field
trips should be supervised. Most difficulties on
field trips may be classed as “imaginary.”

Gardens. Every Valleyview Home, first USHA
project of Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Au-
thority, has a garden. Seventeen per cent of the
32.4-acre site is covered by buildings, with almost
four acres devoted to private yards and gardens.
Supplementary areas are available.

Gardens. The Nature Garden Guide is pub-
lished by the School Garden Association, 121 East
515t Street, New York City. The September issue
told how to grow amaryllis bulbs indoors, and the
October number the “do’s and don’ts” of growing
paper-white narcissus. Conservation is a major
topic for the next months.

Guidance of Youth. Fetching up Fred, by Wal-
ter. MacPeek. Peak Press, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Paper 40 cents, cloth 60 cents. Thirty enlighten-
ing letters between Fred’s parents and a fictitious
Youth Leadership Service.

“You ask how he ain’t got no sense . . . Just to-
day for instance, it’s sunshine and warm, almost
like summer, but that ain’t no reason why our

Frederick should set down on the damp ground.” '

“In reference to the incident you speak of . . .
you will hnd such cases . . . discussed in the chap-
ter headed ‘Learning through error and success.’ ”

Health. The Cornell Rural School Leaflets are
prepared by Dr. E. L. Palmer. The November
number, devoted to development of healthy minds,
discusses the role of beauty and perfection in the
making of finer citizens. Excellent illustrations.
The January number will deal with healthy bodies
and the March number with the problems of a
healthy environment. The Leaflet staff also an-
nounces nature broadcasts, 10:30 to 10:45 Thurs—

day mornings, Station VVHCU. The Leaflet has
long been a classical source for nature leaders.

Hikes. The Union County Park Commission
conducts a nature walk one Sunday each month
led by a qualified lay leader who has specialized in
some phase of nature study. Paul S. Cleland, Box
231, Elizabeth, New Jersey.

Hydroponics. Growing plants by water-culture "

meets the needs of barren Wake Island’s thirty
people plus the Trans-Pacific Clipper crew and
passengers. This milestone suggests an effective
experiment for shut—ins and for those who cannot

IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION 621

travel afar. Complete outfits and chemicals for
hydroponics experiments are listed in the new
catalog of the General Biological Supply House,
761 East 69th Place, Chicago.

Laurel. Winsted, Connecticut, celebrates laurel
week. Signs direct autoists to the best laurel with-
in a ten mile drive. Winchester, Connecticut,
crowns a laurel queen.

Leadership. Nature leaders should use a simple
language. Instead of “schizophrenic societal ide-
ology,” say, “a lot of ideas held by a bunch of nit-
wits.”

Literary Gem. “A nobler want of man is served
by beauty, namely, the love of beauty. . . . To the
body and mind which have been cramped by nox-
ious work or company, nature is medicinal and

[restores their tone. The tradesman, the attorney
comes out of the din and craft of the street and
sees the sky and the woods, and is a man again.

;. . . The health of the eye seems to demand a

- horizon. . . . we are taught by great actions that

‘ the universe is the property of every individual in

it.”—Ralph Waldo Emerson.
I

j, Model Airplane Contests. D. Appleton-Con-
,tury. $1.25. Complete information. The Wright
I :Brothers made their pioneer flight at Kitty Hawk,
North Carolina, December 17, 1903. Stage a
celebration.

Museum, Boston Children’s. This museum cele-

l .brated its twenty-five years with a special program
non November 19. Professor Kirtley F. Mather
l‘of Harvard University conducted a half-hour of
“Information Please” on “Why a Children’s Mu-
»seum?” The second of its kind in the United
lStates (Brooklyn being first), the museum is sup-
.‘iported by private endeavor. Mildred E. Manter

Has been director since 1927.

 

l‘ Museum Project, Glencoe, Illinois. One fourth

“grade group cooperated with the D.A.R. and His-
itorical Society in designing and making the fur-
1ishings for the first log cabin ever erected in

j Glencoe. This cabin was moved to the park
{rounds of the school and dedicated at a celebra-
ljzion in which the community participated. The
best in education is recreation. Also, recreation at
[ts best is education.

National Parks. In 1933 there were 3,500,000
:, l'isitors to 66 National Parks and Monuments and
fin 1940 over 16,000,000 to 162 such areas. This
’ ltOO per cent increase indicated a phenomenal
, growth in appreciation and understanding of na-

.-

tional park values. Local recreation organizers

must anticipate the increased use of park areas
for inspirational benefit.

programs were conducted for the general public
in 1940 in parks. Botanical gardens, game sanctu-
aries, Butler Hospital (Providence) and North-
field Inn (Massachusetts) also have nature pro-
grams. There are some 700 naturalists engaged in
nature recreation. Three hundred forty-four of
these are volunteers working through 74 agencies.
Public funds finance 54 programs and private
sources 19 others. They reach 8,000,000 citizens.

Natural History Survey. The State Geological
and Natural History Survey of Connecticut pro-
vides for nature study. Reports have been pub-
lished on birds, mammals, minerals, dragonflies
and other subjects. The nature study committee
of the Connecticut Forest and Park Association
is a voluntary group interested in the state nature
program. Dr. Edward L. Troxell, State Geologist
and Professor of Geology at Trinity College, is
chairman of the committee.

Nature Essays. This Amazing Planet, Roy
Chapman Andrews. Putnam, 231 pp. $2. Inter-
esting stories, which are amazing, but true.

“Old Manse,” Concord. The purchase of the
“Old Manse” by the Trustees of Public Reserva-
tions is claimed as the outstanding achievement in
the organization’s forty-ninth annual report which
has just appeared. The corporation is a “Trust for
the Preservation of Places of Natural Beauty and
Historic Interest in Massachusetts.” It is volun-
tarily supported and privately administered. Any-
one desiring to avoid political footballs in these
matters would do well to become acquainted with
the Trustees of Public Reservations. Laurence B.
Fletcher, secretary, 50 Congress Street, Boston.

Pan-American Travel is a federal effort to
strengthen conlidence, friendship, and understand-
ing among twenty-two American republics. Local
travel trips to enjoy scenic and natural attractions
are also an excellent way to stimulate inter-racial
amity and cooperation. Begin the tourist move-
ment on a small scale near home. It is a right step
toward the peace which we hope the future will
give. Who will organize a community travel
union?

Park Board Project, Glencoe, Illinois. School
sites are adjacent to park areas so the Park and

(Continued on page 632)

WORLD AT PLAY

LAST YEAR Tulsa, Ok-
lahoma, accepted the
gift of Waite Phillips
of twenty-one acres
around his former home. a beautifully laid out
and landscaped property known as “Philbrook
Park.” The Art Association has been put in
charge of the residence on the property, a beau-
tiful building, and has turned it into a public art
museum. The association raised $50,000 from
public subscriptions on a membership basis, each
member contributing $10.00.

An area of 124,000 square feet, extending four
blocks along the East River front in New York
City, has been given Bellevue Hospital by the city
for recreational use by doctors, nurses, and other
employees of the hospital and by patients.

More Gifts for
Recreation

“IF A MOTORIST set
out this year to travel
all of the highways
and truck trails in the
160 national forests,” states the National Nature
News for May I3, 1940, “it would take more than
four months of steady driving, twelve hours a
day, at an average of alittle better than forty
miles an hour.

“Then if he stopped driving and set off to walk
the trails which are used by fire fighters, sheep-
herders, cattlemen, recreationists, and others of
the millions of visitors to the national forests each
year, it would take a little more than fifteen years
traveling twenty miles a day, according to the
Forest Service, United States Department of
Agriculture.”

Trails in National
Forests

ADOLPH F. WINTER in
the May issue of the
Journal of Health and
Physical Education
describes a game he calls “aerial volleyball,” which
is a combination of volleyball and aerial darts.
The rules of the game are the same as volleyball
with the exception that the court may be made
smaller to conform to the size of the group, and
the serving line is eight feet from the net, which
may be lowered to permit a faster game. A regu-
lar aerial dart shuttlecock is used, and each player
has a plywood paddle with the handle eight inches
long and the rounded hitting surface with a

622

Volleyball Plus
Aerial Darts

diameter of seven inches. An ordinary bottle cork
with four or five duck or chicken feathers stuck
in on the larger end will suffice if manufactured
darts are not at hand. The game is especially
valuable in older women’s groups. It is an excel—
lent class method to lead up to the wrist action
and arm-eye coordination necessary in the game
of badminton.

IN 1939 there were
420 organized softball
teams using the play
fields of Seattle, Wash-
ington, for their games. In addition, it is esti-
mated that the playfields are used by I40 unor-
ganized teams, including the Longshoremen's
League. women’s teams, Boy Scouts, WPA, De-
Molay and other groups, making a total of 560.

Softball in
Seattle

ONE OF the most im—
portant factors in Cin—
cinnati’s success in in-
troducing golf to wage
earners has been the plan of renting sets of clubs
at fifteen cents a day, thus making it unnecessary
for beginners to buy equipment. In 1933 the '
total number of .sets rented was 120; in 1938,
19.466. More than 5,000 rounds of golf were
played by boys and girls of high school age, and
registration exceeded 5.000.

Renting Golf
Equipment

As A SETTLEMENT for .
delinquent taxes, the

city of Jackson, Michi-

gan, recently acquired

a five-acre playfield. Used for softball last sum- "
mer, the playfield is located in a section of the
city which needs recreation facilities. For this rea- *1
son the city turned the playlot over to the recrea- "
tion council. Although no one has as yet accepted 'I
responsibility for its development, the council is i

drawing up plans for the expansion of the area i"
into a modern playfield.

New City Playfield
from Unpaid Taxes

 

CALIFORNIA is known
for a policy of en-
couraging community
cooperation. Last year;
the statute of several years’ standing authorizing;
the use of sChool buildings for community centeri

The Use of School
Facilities

 

 

WORLD AT PLAY 623

purposes at the discretion of the school board was
broadened to embrace school grounds as well and
to empower school boards to permit citizens or
organizations to use them for supervised recrea-
tional activities. Boards of education are also au-
thorized to employ suitable persons to plan, pro—
mote and supervise recreation and to pay their
salaries out of school funds.

Another act known as the California Commu—
nity Recreation Enabling Act of 1939 authorizes
school districts, cities and counties to establish
recreation programs or to join in such projects
and to expend public money therefor. This rec—
reation enabling act also inaugurates the certifica-
tion of recreation leaders by directing the state
board of education to issue a recreation credential
‘to applicants under specified conditions.

New York also revamped the statute empow-
ering school districts, by majority vote of their
:electors, to acquire sites, buildings and appur-
,-tenances, including “land and buildings for agri-
cultural, athletic, playground or social center pur—

poses.” From The Nation’s Schools, November

[1939-

‘ Child Labor Day 1941—Child Labor Day
will be celebrated January 25-27, 1941. The Na-
tional Child Labor Committee points out that
while many of the worst abuses have been elimi-
nated, ‘thousands of children are still employed
under conditions which threaten their health and
education. Literature which will be helpful in
'Jbserving the day may be secured for 25 cents

'irom the Committee, 419 Fourth Avenue, New
'York City.

Conference of Physical Educators to Meet in
Portland, Oregon— “Education for Physical
il’E‘itness and National Stability” will be the theme
‘pf the 1941 convention of the Northwest section

)f the National Physical Education, Health and
likecreation Association to be held in Portland,
'Qregon, March 27, 28 and 29. N. P. Nielsen,

executive secretary of the National Association
.vill be the keynote speaker.

Dean P. W. Leighton of the University of Ore-
‘éion is chairman of the program committee. Mem—
pers of the committee and section chairmen are:
[fernon Sprague, Boy’s High School section; L.

I”. Sparks, College section; Rosamond Wentworth,
' Dance section; Mary Stevenson, Girl’s Physical
Education ; Greba T. Logan, Health section: Les—

  

58 Originally
Developed by . . .

DR. FORREST C.
"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University or Kansas

Lawrence. Kansas

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating

exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Under Exclusive License ngreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
 DeKalb Street 10 a a a. a

Authorized Sales Representative in.Your Locality

 

lie Chase, Junior High and Elementary School
section; Jeanette Brauns, VVomen’s Athletics;
Robert Hager, Recreation; and Evelyn Hasen-
1neyer, Swimming.

Arrangements for the convention are being
made by Dorothea Lensch of the Portland Bureau
of Parks, assisted by Leonard Gehrke, Housing;
C. B. Tator, Exhibits; Don Faber, Transporta-
tion; Clara Burke, Social; Mabel Condit, Regis—
tration, and Ruth F. Hurd, Publicity.

The Cincinnati Ceramic Guild-"In 1939, ac-
cording to the report of the Public Recreation
Commission of Cincinnati, Ohio, the Commission
was instrumental in bringing together a large
group of men and women interested in ceramic
arts. Professors at the University and at the Art
Museum, teachers in the public and parochial
schools, leaders of girls’ and boys’ organizations,
and many laymen are now members of the Cin—
cinnati Ceramic Guild. The Guild has acquired a
kiln at the Rookwood Pottery which may be used
by all members of the Guild and their families.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

a ,St. Louis. Mo.

024 l-VORLD AT PLAY

 

Here’s the

 

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever

made! Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
treated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
ment shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE 00.

4bl0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

 

Puppetry in the Recreation Program — The
Hamburg Puppet Guild offers a short training
course which may be secured by communities. This
course is designed to equip the leader or teacher
with the information necessary to carry on a suc-
cessful puppet program. The Guild provides free
a project outline which tells how to organize a
group and gives details for management. The
Guild’s Manual is a complete guide to making and
staging marionettes. Dancing Dolls, issued by the

Guild, is a book of seven plays requiring only‘

seven characters to produce all the plays. These
plays are easy to direct because they have complete

   
    
      

An Armory as a Recreation Center—In No—
vember, 1940, the armory at Bethlehem, Pennsyl—
vania, was opened as a recreation center for all the
youth of the city. Preceding the dedication of the
center, the armory was opened for inspection and
registration of members. There were free motion
pictures on Saturday from 6:30 to 8:00 P. M. and
social dancing from 8:30 to 10:30. The center will
be open from 3 :30 to 5:30 P. M. and from 6:30 to
10:30 on week days. Saturday hours will be from
9:00 A. M. to noon and from 6:30 to 10:30 P. M.
Juniors will be allowed the use of facilities until
8:00 P. M. Junior members under sixteen pay a
fee of ten cents for the season; senior members,
twenty-live cents.

American Camping Association to Meet——
The National Conference of the American Camp-
ing Association will meet in Washington, D. C.,
on February 13, 14, and 15, 1941. The theme of
the Conference will be “Getting Down to Funda-
mentals.” Futher information may be secured
from H. \V. Wolter, Chairman, Publicity Com-
mittee, 1941 Conference, American Camping As-
sociation. 1101 M Street. Northwest, Washing-

ton. D. C.

James V. Mulholland Honored—Recreation
leaders everywhere will rejoice over the citation
of merit given to James V. Mulholland, Director
of Recreation of the New York City Park De—
partment, on Thursday, November 7th, at a lunch-
eon at the Bankers Club. This award was made
in recognition of Mr. Mulholland’s contribution to
the park system under the leadership of Commis-
sioner Moses. Mr. Mulholland has always been a
loyal worker in the national recreation movement.

A Five-Year Project—On December 2, 1940, (i
the Chicago, Illinois, Recreation Commission cele-l
brated the completion of a five-year task—a sur— I

vey of the city’s recreation. At a luncheon held.”
on this date public recognition was given to Dr. 1
Arthur J. Todd of Northwestern University who ;:

stage directions.

The Guild points out that puppetry is a project

which has within it all the necessary requirements
for a balanced recreation program—entertainment,
education, physical development and, in addition,
the possibility of paying for itself and raising
money for further productions or civic interests.
Further information regarding the services of the
Guild may be secured from the Hamburg Puppet
Guild, Department R-2, Hamburg, New York.

. l
served as editor of the survey, and the compre- 3|
hensive survey report of five volumes was pre— 9
sented to the citizens and officials of Chicago for"

their further action.

Floodlighting Scores in Bemiston—“Four'
times the crowd that we have ever had before,”
writes Mr. J. M. Corby of the Bemis Bro. Bag

ALLEN G. IRELAND

Allen 6. Ireland

Physical educators and recreation workers will

learn with sorrow of the recent death of Dr. Allen
G. Ireland, Director of Health and Physical Edu-
cation in the state of New Jersey.

He began his service as Director of Health and
Physical Education in Connecticut in 1922, where
he served until 1928 when he became Director in

New Jersey.

—_—_—___—_—____—___.——n_-———I——I_——'-
_——__——_——_——n_—_-—I——

Co. of Bemiston, Alabama. describing the opening
night on Roberts Field under a new floodlighting
system. The company had provided the mill com-
munity with an excellent ball field where games of
the East Alabama Industrial League were played.

HVhile attendance was good from the mill com-

munity. the townspeople of Talladega, a half mile

' away, found that they could not leave during busi—

ness hours to enjoy the games. Night lighting

l seemed the only way to bring the whole commu—
‘ nity together to enjoy the thrills of the baseball

season. After careful study of the problem, the
'company invested $5,000 in lights, and the first
'game brought the bag “gate.” Tickets were sold,
and visitors were in their seats before the cere—
monies began. Then a flood of light, a loud and
prolonged cheer, and the game was on. Not only
the mill employees will be given a new recrea-
tional outlet, but the whole town and countryside
can now join in sports events that provide thrill
'and fellowship in the cool of the evening and in
Ithe glow of soft white lights rather than the blaze
of a southern summer sun.

National Parks Popular in 1940—One out of
every eight persons in the country visited some
unit of the Federal Park System in the 1940
ttravel year, according to a report of Newton B.

l

-iDrury, director of the National Park Service in

-'the November issue of Parks and Recreation. The
{total number of visitors, 16,741,855, indicates an

' {increase of more than 400 per cent during the past

seven years. Numerically it is a million greater
lthan last year’s total and a half-million larger than
the figures of the previous peak year 1938. “Most
lvisited park” honors went to Shenandoah in Vir-
ginia, followed by Great Smoky Mountains in
Tennessee and North Carolina and Rock Moun—
tain in Colorado.

4 “Youth Tells Its Story”—-—The American
[Youth Commission announces three new pamph—

625

 

in Praise-Winning Use All Over the World

LOUDEN playground equipment is honor-

built from only highesr grade materials
by master craftsmen; it is designed by experi-
enced engineers who know what playground
equipment must be; it is backed by the 72-
year-old reputation for quality manufactur-
ing and fair-dealing behind the J. E. Porter
Corporation. And yet—it costs the least be-
cause it outwears ordinary equipment by far.

Write for Our Catalog
Address: Dept. R-I

m I. 1:. pom-an

OTTAWA '

11

CORPORATION
~. I 1. 1. I:N o l s

 

Manufacturers of the famous "Louden." "Chicago" and. "Spalding"
lines of playground. gymnasium and swimming pool equipment

lets prepared in connection with the radio series.
“Youth Tells Its Story.” They are “Finding the
Facts About Youth” (information regarding sur-
veys used to gather information about the youth
problem in three community areas) ; “New Strength
for America” (the description of a unique recre—
ation project in Columbus, Indiana) ; and “Rally—
ing Resources for Youth” (an account of com-
munity council developments in Los Angeles
County, California; Dowagiac, Michigan; and
Greenville County, South Carolina). Copies of
these pamphlets may be obtained without charge
from the American Youth Commission, 744 Jack—
son, Place, Washington, D. C.

Six Hundred Years of Sport—The history of
sport from the fourteenth century to the present
is being shown in an exhibition of rare books,
manuscripts, and prints under the auspices of the
Grolier Club, 47 East 60th Street, New York
City. The display, entitled “Six Hundred Years
of Sport,” is devoted primarily to hunting, fishing,
shooting, and horsemanship. Among the histori—
cally important pieces is the first English printed

626 A TRANSPORTATION COMPANY SERVES THE LEISURE-TIME MOVEMENT

book on sports published in 1486 and attributed
to a mythical Lady Juliana Berners‘, called “The
Book of St. Albans,” from the nunnery of which
she was abbess. Colored prints of sports embrac-
ing shooting, fishing, and the hunt complement the
books and manuscripts in the exhibit which will
be open free to the public from 10:00 A. M. to

5 :00 P. M. through February 4, 1941.

National Social Hygiene Day—February 5,
1941, will mark the fifth annual observance of

National Social Hygiene Day. This year the theme
deals with “Social Hygiene in Relation to Na-
tional Defense.” The American Social Hygiene
Association has issued a pamphlet entitled “We
Face a New Challenge” which it will be glad to
send on request to any group interested in pro—
moting meetings. Requests should be directed to
the Association, 1700 Broadway, New York City.

What Does a Business Man Think of

Public Recreation?

(Continued from page 603)

fun doing it. Again, cooperation and harmony
are traits that every business organization re—
quires to succeed.

Nearly every person has latent abilities that
broadening of outlook and proper environment
will bring to the surface, and these are bound
to prove valuable in business life. Even though
a man’s recreational activities do nothing but
furnish him with a hobby, relaxation or enjoy—
ment, such attainment insures the constructive
use of his leisure time, and he will return to
his work refreshed in body and mind.

Any thought that public recreation includes
only a few playground activities for the “un-
derprivileged,” and at most for children, has
been dispelled by our own Recreation Depart-
ment’s efforts in extending its varied activities
to everyone privileged and underprivileged,
young and old, with such desirable results that
public recreation now is considered a munici-
pal necessity along with our schools, health
department, and other branches of the munici-
pal government. That Houston’s Recreation
Department is fast achieving its goal of awak-
ening the citizens to the realization that recre-
ation is for all the people is borne out by the
fact that well over two million people took
part in our local activities during the past year,
either as active participants or as spectators.

A Transportation Company
Serves the Leisure -Time

Movement

THE PHILADELPHIA Transportation Company
is performing a real service to the city in‘ the
publication of a map of Philadelphia which shows
not only streets and the transportation lines and
house numbers, hospitals, and junior and senior
high schools, but also hiking and riding trails, rec-
reation facilities in the parks, and many places
of interest such as museums, libraries and sci-
entific institutions, places of historic interest,
art galleries and theaters. It lists golf courses,
tennis courts, swimming pools, and sports centers
such as baseball fields, beaches, and stadia.
Another service to the public is found in the
publications which the company issues. The FTC
Traveler, published on alternate Fridays, contains
condensed listings of all important events in sports,
the theater, music, and other fields of entertain-
ment. Leisure, issued each month from October
to May, offers listings of scheduled lectures, art
exhibitions, little theater productions and music,
together with information concerning opportuni-
ties for adult education and other leisure-time ac-
tivities. It is distributed by mail Without charge to,..
all requesting it. H flees is published three times a,
year and contains a four months’ schedule of?
Philadelphia’s hiking clubs. Copies are available,
free together with a 48-page guide. A fourth pub-:-
lication is Historic Philadelphia, a 32-page booklet} ‘
on old Philadelphia and historic Germantown, il-
lustrated with maps, drawings, and photographs.

 

 

    
   
  
 
 
  

Further in evidence'of the business man’s
realization of the value of recreation is the,
fact that employers with large concentration;
of employees at points not accessible to mu-—
nicipal recreation facilities often provide such‘
facilities at their own expense. Many oil com—l
panies provide recreation halls and facilities:
for their employees in a number of localities
where the employee camps are removed from
towns. They also encourage social and athletic.
clubs among their employees, fostering in
them the same spirit that you are building in
the general public.

Public recreation is one of our best chan-:
nels of achieving for all this art of living, and
we should remember with gratitude that this
is being carried out in the American way, on

CHICAGO’S SIXTH ANNUAL RECREATION CONFERENCE 027

Chicago's Sixth Annual

Recreation Conierence

N NOVEMBER 8, 1940, the Chicago Recreation
Commission held its sixth city-wide recrea-
tion conference. The day’s program, which began
at 10:30, lasted until six o’clock, culminating in a
dinner meeting at which Malcolm Shaw MacLean,
president of Hampton Institute, spoke on the sub-
ject, “Recreation and Preparedness.” During the
course of the day a number of group meetings
were held on such subjects as “Camping as a Pre-
paration for Living,” “The American Family—-
Our First Line of Defense,” “Chicago Commu-
nities at the Round Table,” “Nature as a Resource
,in a Time of Emergency,” “Experience Speaks
for Civilian Morale,” and “Youth’s Leisure Time
—-on the Auction Block.”

"Largest in attendance, liveliest in the variety of
"its activity, and timeliest in its theme of ‘Recrea-
' tion and Preparedness,’ the sixth annual Recrea-
' tion Conference stands out as the most successful

for all the conferences sponsored by the Chicago
Recreation Commission.” Thus the November
issue of Community Recreation, a mimeographed
bulletin issued by the Chicago Recreation Commis-
sion, describes the meeting. Throughout the day
some six thousand citizens from all parts of the
Chicago area—a record attendance—participated
i in the general sessions, the afternoon section meet-
ings, and the evening dinner session, gala climax of
an eventful day. More than a .hundred civic and
social organizations, district and local recreation

:ommittees and recreation agencies were repre—
sented at the Conference.

Stenographic reports of the three general ses—
sions and summary reports of the seven section
meetings may be ordered from the Lecture Re-

,iporting Service, 33 South Market Street, Chicago.
These are available at 40 cents.

 

 

a non—compulsory basis and by the develop-
- ment of the individual character of the people,
rather than by the regimentation practiced in
some countries. In our country the individual
15 being encouraged and taught to play for the
love of it and the joy and happiness which it
)rings him in this day of turmoil and hurry.
'He is not being herded with others in droves
1nd put through routines for which he has no
.‘nental inclination or natural incentive.

The New Book

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

THE HDMINISTRBTION
OF PUBLIC RECREGTION

 

 

gives you experienced guidance on
the many problems to be met in the

conduct of a successful department
of recreation.

Written by George Hjelte,

Superintendent of Recreation for the City of
Los Angeles, this book contains a complete
discussion of the administrative problems in-
volved in local community recreation, whether
conducted under city, county, or public school
auspices. It covers all such matters as the
organization and financing of municipal or
county recreation departments, the acquisi—
tion of recreation properties, the co-ordina-
tion of various agencies for recreation work,
and the many details of personnel, budgeting,
record-keeping, program planning, etc.

416 pages, $3.00 I

The Macmillan Company, New York

Should the Schools Train for Leisure?
(Continued from page 592)

uninteresting. In some school situations activities
that should be interesting and recreative become
boresome and dull. The fear is expressed by some
of those interested in recreation that if the school
embarks on an extensive program of leisure train-
ing it will smack of the school-room atmosphere
and will cease to' be fun and become quite another

Plays and Entertainments

. We carry the largest stock in the
country of miscellaneous plays and en-
tertainments, stunts, specialties, books
of games and recitations for children
and adults. We can help you with your
indoor entertainment problems.

         
     
   
   
  

Catalogue Free

THE PENN PLAY COMPANY
929 FILBERT STREET PHILADELPHIA .

  
    

628

SHOULD THE SCHOOLS TRAIN FOR LEISURE?

THE AMERICAN CITIZEN ,
MAGAZINE

brings each month stories of What
individuals, community groups and
agencies are doing

To build good character

To educate youth for citizenship
and community leadership

To solve community problems

To safeguard and enhance democratic
institutions.

—ENDORSEMENTS—
A High School Principal:

“Perhaps the most interesting, as well as the
most potential characteristic of THE AMERI-
CAN CITIZEN is its emphasis upon the cor-
relation of various educational, civic, and social
activities. As far as I know, there is no other
periodical that has the same peculiarly effective
approach to these fields.”——Francis L. Bacon,
Principal, Evanston Township High School,
Evanston, Illinois.

University Dean:

“I consider the magazine THE AMERICAN

CITIZEN an outstanding influence in promot-
ing social education. I believe a journal of this
kind should have widespread circulation and
adequate support from individuals and organi-
zations interested in social education.”—Emest
O. M elby, Dean of School of Education, North-

western University.

Chiet Librarian:

“THE AMERICAN CITIZEN is serving a
vital need of the times and should be in every
public, college, and school library in the coun-
try.”—Clarence W. Sumner, Chief Librarian,
The Youngstown Public Library, Youngstown,

Ohio.

School Superintendent:

“I know of no other publication that addresses
the job of citizenship training so specifically
and effectively. It is one sonrce that we can
depend upon to be free from hair-brained social
or political proposals that serve only to sell
magazines and confuse the immature student.”—
E. R. Selleck, Supt. of Des Plaines Public
Schools, Des Plaines, Illinois.

Send your name and address to

THE AMERICAN CITIZEN

5732 HARPER AVENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

and a sample copy and subscription
blank will be sent to you.

 

thing. Instead of learning how to enjoy various
activities the student will be definitely conditioned

against them.

There is enough truth in this contention to make
it necessary for all who believe in recreation to do
everything in their power to see that if and when
the schools do begin to train for leisure in real
earnest it is done in a way that will insure the
proper results. Modern schools have gone a long
way in this connection. Those who are not familiar
with modern education have a tendency to View
educational experience in light of their own per-
sonal histories. The schools of America have gone
much further in developing methods of motiva-
tion than they have in the construction of func-
tional curricula. Subject matter that is inherently
dull and uninteresting is now presented in
dynamic and enticing ways. New devices such as
colored slides, motion pictures, and the radio are
now available. The point is that education can be
more interesting and dynamic than it has ever
been before, providing teachers are trained pro—
perly and they have the right subject matter as-
signments. Given something as useful and inter-
esting as recreation activities, the modern school
should succeed admirably in keeping it on the
fun level.

There is no reason why leisure pursuits cannot
be taught in high school providing the teaching
staff is properly trained and as a result uses an
intelligent approach to the problem. The basic point
of departure must be that the student enjoy the
experience. If he does not, he may be missing the
point of the experience entirely. This is one
phase of school experience where the proper moti-
vation is most important. The success of the pro-
gram will rest upon the extent to which students
continue the activities learned in school over into
their leisure hours while they are of school age
and later. It cannot be measured in terms of the
number of students who make craft projects or I
participate in hiking trips. Unless there is carry- '
over value it is not real functional education. I

Are Teachers Prepared to Be Recreation
Leaders?

The schools will have to plead guilty to the
charge that teachers are not trained as recreation
leaders. Relatively few teachers have adequate
training in the field of leisure and recreation. If
recreation activities in the school have an academic
flavor it is usually because the teacher has not '

 

l .

THE EVOLUTION OF A SOCIAL DANCE

. been given the proper perspective and set of skills

to enable him to utilize the right approach.

Even more unfortunate is the fact that the
teacher training institutions are very slow in ex-
panding their curricula to include this type of
training. There are exceptions to this, of course.
Many teacher training institutions have added
camp leadership courses within recent years.
Others have branched out directly into recreation

' leadership in various forms. The trend has not yet

been enough to give the broad basic training that
teachers should have. Not only are more courses
needed for those who wish to specialize in recre-
ation training, there is also a need for administra-
tors to realize the value of this type of training
for all teachers. Educators generally seem to
agree that the school has a definite responsibility in
the field of recreation activity, but as yet the pro—
per provision has not been made to train teachers
in this field or to provide for recreation activities
in the schools.

There is a definite trend in America toward
functional education. It is up to those who see the
possibilities of enriched leisure to see to it that this
functional education has ample opportunity for
wholesome leisure-time activities with real carry—
over values.

——_

Fame in February
(Continued from page 584)

word ending with the suffix "nation" which the
phrase suggests. Thus:

Disliked nation
Dismayed nation '
Bright nation
Disrespectful nation
Resolute nation
Fanciful nation
Nation at its end
Destructive nation
Unfriendly nation
Murderous nation
Most patient nation
United nation

Abomination
Consternation
Illumination
Insubordination
Determination
Imagination

r Termination
Extermination
Alienation
Assassination
Resignation
Combination

February Fables. Guests still worn out from the
geography quizzes will appreciate a little nonsense.
Out of a bowl have each one pick a piece of paper

 on which is written some common or uncommon
| noun. The guest must then write a sentence about

himself and include in it the noun on the paper.

l If you prefer, ask everyone to write a poem about

629

The Evolution of a
Social Dance

By R. O. SCHLENTER

Director of Recreation

Plainfield. New Jersey

'1‘ THE DEPTH of the depression the Recreation
Commission of Plainfield, New Jersey, open—
ed two schools for evening centers and organized
activities on a club basis. From this came the plan
for conducting weekly social dances as one means
of providing recreation for the young people of
the city. Tickets were printed and distributed to
each member of the center, which entitled them
to bring their friends. Ticket holders were asked
to retain their tickets during the dance. This en-
abled us in case any trouble should arise to place
the responsibility on the member inviting the
culprit. -

Music was furnished by WPA and a charge of
five cents was made for checking. We varied the
dances by alternating between the east and west
end centers, but with the increased attendance it
soon became necessary to hold a weekly dance at
each center. The hours were from 8:00 to II :00
P. M. “Jitterbugging” was at its height at the time,
and devotees of this type of dancing swarmed to
the centers. The following year we decided to
eliminate the so-called jitterbugs from our dances,
but in order to provide an outlet for them we
arranged a special dance night. Lack of interest
in this particular form of dancing, however, led us
to discontinue the night.

At first not a great deal of attention was paid to
the clothing worn by the dancers, but before long
we found it desirable to take some action to im-
prove their appearance. Accordingly we made the
rule that only people wearing suitable clothing
would be admitted. The new rule required men
to wear coats with collars and ties. This rule was
not popular at the beginning, but the past two
years has seen a great improvement in appearance.

We found that in most instances the girls were
paying their own way. When we inquired the
reason for this the girls told us that if they allowed
the boys to pay for them, they would be under
obligation to dance with them all the evening,
whereas if they were on their own they could
dance with whomever they pleased.

The story of the dance orchestra which is now

630

playing for the dances is in itself an interesting
one. It all started with a group of high school
boys who held their rehearsals in one of the cen—
ters. The boys in their rehearsals would listen to
the music of well-known bands played on records
and would then try to imitate the playing. There
are, and always have been, thirteen players in this
band. They work on a cooperative basis, and when
one is employed to play they must all be included.

The orchestra’s “big moment” came one night
when the WPA orchestra failed to put in an ap-
pearance. They have been playing for us ever
since to everyone’s satisfaction. At the beginning
of their second season with us the orchestra ap~
peared in attractive uniforms. During that sea—
son they bought a public address system which
they used for their vocals. We pay the orchestra
approximately $250 a month. This is made pos-
sible through a charge of 20 cents per dancer.
' This means that the orchestra receives seventy-
tive per cent of the gross receipts, the Recreation
Department, twenty—live per cent. The money de-
rived by the Department from the dances is paid
out for leadership and for the sport of our hand
craft program. One person sells tickets and an-
other circulates about the building. To date we
have experienced no behavior problems.

himself and use the word on the paper somewhere
in his rhyme. F on instance, if Daniel Boone picks
“corkscrew” he might write, “Daniel Boone one
day killed a snake which he discovered coiled up
like a corkscrew on the trail.” Or

Dan Boone one day perceived a snake
Coiled up much like a corkscrew.

The rock he threw had aim most true;
What hit him, that snake never knew.

Food and Favors. One night of fame probably
hasn’t affected the appetites of your guests who
by this time will be needing some refreshment.
Remember that hearty pioneers will want substan-
tial sandwiches, cake or pie. And don’t forget to
include a hot drink to help the guests Withstand
the winter winds on their way home.

Make the table decorations simple but different,
and try to avoid traditional hatchets, hearts, and
cherries. Use a calendar or horoscope theme and
put one candle on the birthday cake for each
guest. Fame and glory have been holding sway
all evening, so let’s honor the “forgotten man”
with our February favors. A small potato will

{i PARK DEDICATED TO NATURALISTS

serve as body and head. Cut the bottom off
squarely, attach two lima beans for feet and glue
to a small card. Eyes, nose and mouth may be
painted or pasted on, or they can be made with
large—headed pins stuck into the head. Half of a
lima bean will serve as a hat and two bean pods
become the arms. A few strings of yarn attached
with a wire hairpin will give the little man a
beard. A tiny printed placard strung around his

neck and hanging down the back will identify him ‘

as “the forgotten man.”

And now that you have honored the known and
the unknown, the famed and the “unfamed,” your

duties are finished and you can send your guests '

back to the Past with a “Very Happy Birthday."

A Park Dedicated to Naturalists

(Continued from page 585)

A beautiful tree that flourishes in the area is
the tulip, a tall flowering tree that bears yellowish
orange-colored flowers. Of the small flowering
trees, the shadblow is the first to bloom. Then
come the dogwoods, of which there are hundreds.

Among other trees are pitch and white pines,
white and red cedars, sweet and sour gums, sassa-
fras, red maple, gray, sweet and river birches,
blue or water beech, American birch, black alder
and the American sycamore. There are sixty-two
species of ferns.

Bird life includes quail and partridge, and all

the common and swamp birds. Otter, mink,

beaver, squirrels and muskrats are natives of the

region.

The WPA has constructed rustic-type build~
ings, three parking areas, four shelters, seventy
picnic tables, seventy fireplaces, trail seats and
sanitary pits, as well as transplanting 9,200 trees.

A plan is already under way to add a larger
section to the park, which will include several
lakes made by damming Cheesequake Creek.

Planning the. Community School
(Continued from page 586)

ment. It is not made clear to what extent and in
what ways this concept of a large community
school site should be reconciled with the “widely
accepted principle that the elementary school sites
should not be less than five acres in size.” The

authors present here a problem that challenges

further study.
There are a few references in the volume to.

VOLUNTEER SERVICE IN PUBLIC RECREATION 031

parks and to cooperative planning of community
school playground and park facilities. Questions
relating to the form of organization under which
community programs should be carried on or to
operating procedures are not considered. Atten-
tion is rather focused upon the problems involved
in designing buildings and grounds in such a way
as to meet basic community needs. The American
Association for Adult Education, which sponsored
the studies upon which the volume is based, merits
appreciation for having made possible this prac-
tical, informative, and forward-looking publication.

Some Music Organizations tor Youth
(Continued from page 606)

Salt Lake City
Presents Grand Opera

By JESSIE SCHOFIELD
Superintendent of Public Recreation

Salt Lake City. Utah

I D FOR THE PAST eighteen years the Recreation De-

partment of Salt Lake City has included as part
of its summer program a civic opera which has

' always been a light opera. The operas given have

been well received, and they have come to be re-
garded as an integral part of the cultural life of
the city.

In 1938 the Recreation Department decided to
present a grand opera during “Christmas Cheer

:, Week,” the week between Christmas and New
Year’s Day, at which time for many years the

Department has provided special programs. To
make this possible, the Salt Lake City Opera As-
sociation came into being with a board of directors
comprised of seven leading business men and lead-
ers in the city’s musical life. The Superintendent
of Recreation serves as permanent secretary. The
association has been incorporated as a nonprofit

. corporation with the Secretary of State.

One of the primary reasons for organizing the
Opera Association was the establishment of a
permanent orchestra. This has been accomplished

' with the help of the personnel director of the or—
: chestra who has devoted a great deal of his spare

time as a hobby to the promotion of the orchestra.
Each Thursday evening, for fifteen months, sixty-
five talented young musicians, university students
or graduates, have met to play together and to ac-
company the operas: This has been an important
factor in the success of the operas.

Soloists for each new production are selected by
tryouts, and the city’s best singers are included in
the cast. During 1940 the organization of the
chorus will be made permanent. None of the par-
ticipants are paid, and the operas are financed by
ticket sales and by appropriations from the budget
of the Recreation Department.

“Hansel and Gretel” by Humperdinck was pre-
sented at Christmas in 1938; “Gondoliers” by Gil-
bert and Sullivan was given in August; and this
Christmas the performance was Gounod’s “Faust.”

The Recreation Department is proud of the
success of its civic operas. They require an end-
less amount of work and considerable money, but
the contribution which they make to the city’s
cultural life is worth all the energy expended.

Volunteer Service in Public Recreation
(Continued from page 598)

Groups of young people responsible for putting on
activities

Leaders of nursery play schools

Nurses

Doctors
Leaders of women’s activities in basketball, badminton,

etc.
Clerical workers

Volunteers on Playgrounds. In scores of play-
grounds there are neighborhood councils, called
in some places Mothers’ Clubs, Parents’ Coun-
cils, Neighborhood Councils, varying in member-
ship from 25 to 450, concerned chiefly with the
activities of the playground during the summer
season, but in some cities keeping active through-
out the whole year. Their activities include rais-
ing money. In one city the playground groups
raised $10,000 in one year for playground equip-
ment and for local playground requirements.
These groups see that conditions on the play-
grounds are satisfactory, that standards of lead-
ership are high. They thwart political moves. In
one city the neighborhood group raised great op-
position to a new political administration dabbling
in the affairs of public recreation. They won their
case. These groups sponsor social activities. They
are the interpreters of the needs of the city before
City Councils, before boards of education.

On the playgrounds volunteer service is also
given in leading games, storytelling, marking ten-
nis and game courts, handling equipment. V olun-
teers are usually present on most days throughout
the season and can be depended upon for regular

service of this type.

632

Other service includes conducting registration,
offering transportation of playground children for
games, nature trips, etc.

In the clubs and councils centering around the
playgrounds and community centers will be found
much the same kind of interest and devotion that

will be found around private agencies.

It's_Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 621)

School Boards have met and worked together in
order to secure such long range impovements as
landscaping, extension of space and facilities for
play, parking areas, outdoor amphitheaters and
class rooms. In planning the Park Board’s sum-
mer recreation program faculty members of the
school system have participated. This is the frame
work for nature recreation par excellence.

Planetarium. Pinpoint Planetarium, by Armand
Spitz. Henry Holt. $2. Written for teen age.
Semi-monthly star charts for miniature planetaria.

Radio Travel Series. The National Park Ser-
vice ofi’ers without charge “Two on a Trip,” half—
hour dramatizations. Jane and Johnny Harper are
looking for America. The great age of the earth
and the courage of 'pioneers are only a few things
they learn while enjoying their parks.

Resources of the Community. Pupils in the
social living classes at the seventh and eighth
grade levels, Glencoe, Illinois, are trained in the
techniques of interviewing. As these youthful citi-
zens go from home to home they learn of butterfly
collections. They locate people who have traveled,
who have movies to show and adventures to relate.
They discover Collie fanciers and dahlia growers.
They contact trout and deep-sea fishermen, hunt-
ers, and horsemen. Aquaria are found in the base-
ment. Are these young folks becoming nature-
recreation-conscious ?

Swapping. Nature-Grams is a column for
swapping ideas. However, if you also have an in—
clination to exchange nature materials let’s know
about it. A few “spot” sources and we are off.

Trees. Planting and Care of Shade Trees, J. E.
Davis. National History Survey, Urbana, Illinois.
Free.

Vanderbilt Mansion National Historic Site,
Hyde Park, New York, was established in July,
1940, as a unit of the National Park Service. Here

IT’S BEING DONE [N NATURE RECREATION

Dr. John Bard developed an orchard of nearly 800
apple trees and choice English grafted fruit in
Revolutionary times. His son, Dr. Samuel, en—
couraged the use of clover and gypsum as fertilizer
before 1821. Dr. David Hosack, professor of nat-
ural history at” Columbia, lived here about 1827 to
1835 and introduced many exotics. Dr. Hosack
founded the first botanical garden in America
(1801) near what is now Rockefeller Center.

Children under sixteen are admitted free when .

accompanied by adults (25 cents). The grounds
are a 21 I-acre nature shrine.

Weather. Rain or Shine, the Story of Weather,
Marian E. Baer. Farrar and Rinehart. $2. Inter-
esting to one contemplating the job of the weather
man. Do you have a vocational guidance book
shelf? Boost purposeful reading.

lVeeds. Rout the Weeds, L. R. Tehon. Nat-
ural History Survey, Urbana, Illinois. Free. Thir—
teen weeds, illustrated.

W ild Life. Fish, birds, and mammals belong to
the people. Over half of these animals exist on
privately owned land. Conserving these animals
must be done to a large extent by individuals.
Food plants beneficial for wild life, cover crops,
shelters, and winter feeding might be considered
in planning this welfare. This was a form of rec-
reation for Milwaukee High School students on
the grounds of the Soldiers’ Home. Your county
extension service can give additional information.

Pioneering in Municipal Recreation
(Continued from page 618)

legislative session of 1939, with an enabling act
allowing cities, park departments and school dis—
tricts to conduct a program of public recreation
individually, or a joint program in conjunction
with one or more of the groups. Funds from all
three groups could be used in such a plan.

In July 1939, the city of Great Falls and the

School District entered into an agreement to spon- ,

sor and finance jointly a board of recreation in
the community. A board was established consist—
ing of two members of the City Council, two
members of the School Board and a member at

large appointed by the Mayor with the consent of -

the School Board. This Board of Recreation was

given a working budget by the city while the .

School District provided the director of recreation

and the school facilities, including heat, light,

water and janitorial service.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 633

v The Board of Recreation took over the facilities
 developed by the Great Falls Recreation Associa-
: tion as well as the program as the latter group dis-
i solved, having fulhlled its objective in the estab-
a lishment of a municipal department of recreation.
I The policies and philosophies carried by the Rec-
 reation Association have been assimilated by the

municipal department, and the basic program
t established and developed over a number of years

is continuing with attendance and interest in-
l. creasing yearly.

_— __

The principal factor in the development can be
. shown by a comparison of the staff used in the
' fall of 1936 with that used during the summer of
i 1940. In 1936, a staff of close to thirty leaders
l included only one leader employed by local funds.
‘ that being the director of recreation, while the re—
maining workers were provided by VVPA and NYA.
l During the summer of 1940, WPA provided four-
} teen workers, while ten workers were provided
for full time work on the playgrounds and seven
for part time employment from funds of the Board
| of Recreation. The full time employees included
the director of recreation, a secretary, a tennis
supervisor, a baseball supervisor and seven play
ileaders. Part time employees include laborers,
umpires and special activity leaders. The 1940-41
I budget of the Board of Recreation was increased
to provide additional personnel as well as equip-

: nient for the program.

 

 Comparative attendance figures for the four
l years of the municipal recreation program show
i a growth from 181,717 in 1936-37 to 417,896 in

1939—40. The major attendance increase has been

among the participants, although the spectator at-
' tendance has developed to some extent. Eighty-

tive per cent of the participant attendance is in the
l age groups under eighteen years of age; adults
make up the balance. Further development in
adult activities is anticipated as the community
l accepts the responsibility for adult recreation.

Great Falls is the pioneering municipal recrea-
tion program in the state of Montana, while sev-
.[ eral other communities are taking full advantage
l of the assistance being offered by W PA and have
- provided local supervisors for summer work. One
other community, Anaconda, has its own' full time
l executive, but is now contemplating the formation
‘of a municipal department. Several other com-
munities have formed the groundwork for the es-
l tablishment of recreation departments and in all
. probability will do so within a few years.

 

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of 2

Current Interest to the Recreation Worlter

        

MAGAZINES

Child Study, Fall 1940

“Books of the Year for Children.” Selected by the
Children’s Book Committee of the Child Study
Association

Childhood Education, December 1940
“The Christmas Story in Music” by Augustus Zanzig
“The Christmas Story Hour” [by M. Jagendorf

The Crippled Child, December 1940
“The Influence of the Arts on the Lives of Handi-
capped Children” by Georgiana S. Mendenhall

Journal of Health and Physical Education,
December 1940

“From Whence Our Sports P” by Carl L. Schrader

“Miss Liberty—A Folk Dance Pageant” by K. Eliza-
beth Anderson

“Rhythmical Experiences in the Elementary Grades"
by Alma IEbeling

“Water Studies: Experiments in Potential Art
Form” by Lois Carrell

Safety Education, December 1940
“Safety in Winter Sports” by Kenneth N. Beadle

Service Bulletin (National Section on Women’s Athletics
of the American Association for Health, Physical Edu-
cation, and Recreation), November 1940

“Co-Recreational Sports Day”

School Activities, December 1940
“Dancing—Its Contribution to Social Education” by

Henry Glass
“Archery Association: A Community Project” by
Leslie A. Stovall

PAMPH LETS

Bulletin of Service 1940
Community Recreation Service of Boston, Inc., 739
Boylston Street, Boston, Mass.

Catalog of Educational Motion Pictures. Bell and Howell
F ilmosound Library
Bell and Howell Company, Chicago, 111., price 25
cents

Democracy in Evolution: The Natural History of a Boys'
Club Group by Charles Sheldon Thompson
Sanford Bates, 8 Lindbergh Place, Crestwood, N. Y.

Finding the Facts About Youth. How Three American
Communities Conducted Surveys to Learn What the
Youth Problem Meant Right at Home

American Youth Commission, 744 Jackson Place,

Washington, D. C.

Good References: Safety Education. Bibliography No. 65

Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing
thce, Washington, D. C.

[Marine Park Improvement
Department of Parks, New York City

New Strength for America. How Youth in One City Bene-
fited When Recreation Facilities Were Coordinated to

Build Health and Morale
American Youth Commission, 744 Jackson Place,

Washington, D. C.

634 A COOPERATIVE VISUAL EDUCATION PROGRAM

Rallying Resources for Youth. How Three Communities
Set Up Councils to Coordinate Separate Agencies and

Make the Most of Their Facilities
American Youth Commission, 744 Jackson Place,

Washington, D. C.

Report on Organized Camping in Georgia. A continua-
tion of the Park, Parkway and Recreational Area

Survey
State Planning Board, Ga.

Where to Buy Supplies for Educational Institutions
Porter Sargent, 11 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.

ANN UAL REPORTS

Recreation Department, Berkeley, Cal.; Park District,
Chicago, 111.; Park Commission, Essex County, N. J.;
Department of Playground and Recreation, Los An-
geles, Cal.; Sherwood Forest Camp, Troy, operated by
Park and Playground Association, St. Louis, Mo.

Is Your Hobby Organized?

(Continued from page 590)

Not without sense of humor is the gregarious
hobbyist. If you “pulled a boner” and feel the
need of personal chastisement join the Self-Kick—
ing Club of America. And are you guilty of
lengthy soaking? George Bernard Shaw, H. G.
Wells, and Lowell Thomas are brothers in the
Ancient and Independent Order of Soakers com-
posed of people who delight in bathtub lolling.

The aim of the Society for the Prevention of
Calling Pullman Porters George is as obvious as
membership qualifications in the Universal Order
of Fred Smiths of America. The latter group did
suspend regulations long enough to accord honor-
ary status to one Smith Frederick!

Perhaps the growth of these groups gave one
man the appropriate thought that there should be
one more grand organizationm—an organization to
end all organizations—the Amalgamation of Mad
American Clubs and Associations! '

 

"Sitzmarks" In Minneapolis
(Continued from page 602)
natural facilities, and the beautiful chalet which
makes an excellent meeting place. The program
is divided into three nights: one night is devoted
to downhill technique, one to slalom and the other
to jumping.

The indoor part of the program consists of
equipment displays by the local ski manufacturers
and distributors, talks on the types of equipment
by their representatives, instruction movies on the
type of skiing being emphasized that night, and an
explanation of the technique by a local ski expert.
The group is then taken out of doors and given
actual instruction under lights. Those who do not
own equipment but wish to take advantage of the

free lessons may rent skis and poles from the
Chalet.

The participation number—over 700 different
individuals last year—shows that the need for
such a clinic is great. With each of the local clubs
sending expert representatives to aid in the in-
struction, the taste for the sport is developed, and
thus the clinic has proved of great benefit in in-
creasing the number of people who participate in
this outdoor winter sport.

A Cooperative Visual Education

Program
(Continued from page 600)

Boys’ Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Wednesday6z00- 7:30
Second Congregation . . . . . . . . . . ..Wednesday7;45— 9:30
City Recreation Department .....Wednesday9:30-11:00
Collingwood Presbyterian . . . . . ..Thursday 6:30- 8:30
National Youth Administration ..Thursday 8:30-10:00

Lutheran Neighborhood House...Friday 6:00- 7:00
Douglass Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Friday 7:00- 8:30
Ashland Baptist Church . . . . . . . . ..Friday 9:00-10:30

North Toledo Community House..Saturday 2:00- 4:00,

Films Shown

Films shown on the programs include: The!
Last of the Mohicans; The Story of Our Flag:
They Discovered America; Sarasota, The Air-j
Conditioned City; Canada’s Cozy Corner; Home:
Defense; Television; Air Waves; Bound to Last ;{
Twenty Years a Champion; Voyageur Trails;
The Pay-off; Footsteps; Exploring the Coffee
Continent; Once Upon a Time; Progress on Par-I
ade ; The M iddletown Family at the New York’s.
World Fair; Ohio Travelogue No. 12 and No. I 3 ;j
The Fireman; The Bottom of the World; Behind
the Flood Headlines; Jack and the Beanstalk;
Brighter Times Ahead; The Benefactor; Blake.‘
of Scotland Yard; A Day with the Sun; South. .
America Bound; Bermuda, Coral Island of the“;
Atlantic; Handle with Pride; New England and .1
the Auto; Speedway Tested; We Drivers; The-1
Beneficent Reprobate; Two Salesmen in Search]
of an Order; Saguenay Saga; Spring’s Signa---l
ture; The Tree of Life; Winter Wonder Land ;|
South to the Sun; Seeing Fingers; Shock Troops;
of Disaster; The Eighty Years; Where Chamf,
pions Meet; Work Pays America; Good Golf;
Man Against the River; New Romance of Glass;
The Blue of the Night; The Light of a Race;
Queen of the Waves; Magic vs. Science; Way of:
the Wild; Baseball Film; Robinson Crusoe; and
Never Weaken.

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

The Saucy Sailor and Other Games Outdoors
By Ray J. Marran. Thomas Y. Crowell Company, New

Dramatlzed Ballads York $2.00.

By Alice M. G. White and Janet E. Tobitt. E. P. Dutton 4 ‘ - -,
and Company, Inc" New York. $2.00. THERF ARE csMES of all kinds described here.

l ‘ RECREATION WORKERS will welcome an announcement of

' another book by the authors of Dramatized Ballads
i and Plays for High Holidays. Many well—known ballads
are here, from religious songs to the songs of courtship

Some
need no more equipment than a bean bag; others re—

quire trapezes and dumbbells, which the author tells the
children how to make themselves. One very practical
section of the book tells how to construct an outdoor
gymnasium. Throughout the book there are many draw-

, and gypsy life. Some of the ballads appear here in Eng-

' lish for the first time. Incidental music and dancing ac-

l company the ballads, and with these boys and girls with
a Hair for the dramatic will enjoy the interpretation.
staging, music, and dancing which go into the production
of the ballads.

l

, Folk Dancing for Fun

I Compiled by Seymour Meyerson and Frank Johnson.
I Obtainable from Seymour Meyerson, George Williams
' College, 5315 Drexel Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. $.75.

*  THIS MIMEOGRAPHED compilation the authors have
.l- given us complete directions and musical scores for

sixteen dances of eight different European nationalities
selected especially for use in social recreation. The
dances have been used with equal success with groups of
l ten— to twelve-year-old boys and girls, and with adults.
The dances described are all short, interesting, and easy
to teach.

 

1
Plays of America's Growth
|
By Samuel S. Ullman. Dodd, Mead and Company, New
York. $2.00.
MERICAN INSTITUTIONS, in contrast with those of other
countries, are portrayed in these sixteen new plays
li which dramatize the men and events that have made
'i America the country it is today. Each play is divided
into two parts and is introduced by a brief preface which
' may be used as a curtain raiser or prologue. Among the
historical characters portrayed are George Washington,

I Daniel Boone, Daniel \Vebster, Benjamin Franklin, and
-' Abraham Lincoln.

I l

l
l
a

 

?
.g
I

 

Sport for the Fun of it

lBy‘John R. Tunis. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
I York. $2.50.

‘ IT IS NOT A DIFFICULT matter to find the official playing

rules for twenty leading sports, but here, between two
, covers, you have the rules spiced with Mr. Tunis’ pun-
gent comments! And that makes this book different from
all others. The rules for each of the twenty sports are
preceded by descriptions of its origin and development,
and Mr. Tunis has found some amusing stories and situa-
tions to relate about a number of the games. Layouts

for the courts are shown, and there are many attractive
illustrations.

ings and diagrams to help clarify the directions.

Leathercraft as a Hobby

Byél (7i‘éifford Pyle. Harper and Brothers, New York.

HIS i300K has been prepared for classroom use and

also for independent reference and guidance by work-
ers and students who like to carry on leathercraft at
home and who are looking for information on such mat—
ters as cutting, skiving, tooling, embossing, stamping,
dyeing, lacing, braiding and weaving, and the care of
real leather. The purpose of the book is to give simply
and clearly the methods and formulae about which so
many beginners make mistakes. It is the author’s hope
that the book will make it easy for anyone to master
this ancient craft.

Forest Outings

Edited by Russell Lord. United States Department_of
Agriculture, Forest Service. Government Printing

Olhce, Washington, D. C. Paper, $.75; vbuckram, $1.25.
To THIS VOLUME thirty foresters have contributed de—

scriptions of our national forests which take us all
over the country and spread before us the natural wealth
and beauty which still is ours. While the central theme
is national forest recreation, the discussion sounds the
note of 'basic and general conservation principles which
must prevail in the use of all of the country’s resources
of the soil and its products, and brings out strikingly the
value of the multiple-use plan of management prevailing
in the national forests. This book is one recreation work-
ers will want to have for their libraries.

Foldboat Holidays

Edited by J. Kissner. The Greystone Press, New York.
$2.50.

NEW CRAFT, the foldboat, has appeared on American
streams in the last few years—a trim craft based on
the canoe of the Eskimos but much improved by modern
science. It possesses many advantages, particularly for
the less affluent sportsman, over other boats of compara-
ble size. It can be easily stored and dismantled, and it
lends itself to a great variety of uses. Anyone can
master its ordinary operation. In this book fold-boaters
tell you of their experiences in many places. Written in
a popular style, the book is a delightful one, both for
the traveler and for the stay-at-home who yearns for
adventure but must take it vicariously.

635

636 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Group Life.

By Mary K. Simkhovitch. Association Press, New
York. $1.00.

In this informal book, delightfully written, Mrs.
Simkhovitch brings to mind the various ways in which
individuals work and play together in groups in the
church, in the nation and the state, the neighborhood, the
pressure group, the interracial groups, in consumers’ co-
operatives, in the labor movement, in committees of all
kinds, in recreation clubs, on the playground, in the
school, and in the family.

As one reads the book, one sees, too, how many phases
of life the word “group” belongs in and how diliicult it
is to limit its use to any small section of education-recre-
ation organizations.

Youth in Agricultural Villages.

By Bruce L. Melvin and :Elna N. Smith. Division
of Research, Works Progress Administration. United
States Government Printing Ofiice, Washington.
This is a report of a survey of youth conducted in
forty-five villages located in average or better than aver-
age agricultural territory. The report is important for
its findings regarding the place of village youth in rural
communities and the extent to which they are able to
make their social and economic adjustments within their
home villages. It provides a sound basis for determining
the types and scope of economic and social opportunities
needed by agricultural village youth. Chapter VIII of
the report deals with Social and Recreational Activities,
and leads to the conclusion that particularly for out—of-
school youth there is a dearth of outdoor sports. Reading
is apparently the leisure-time interest most generally in-
dulged in. The schools undoubtedly provide most of the
facilities and the leadership in social and recreational life
among youth. Outside the schools recreation of a passive
nature predominates. Many youth when they drop out
of school seem for the most part to cease their social and
recreational activities.

A Forum in Action 1940.

By Ivah Deering. Obtainable from Mrs. Ivah Deer-
mg, 1118 Cypress Street, Cincinnati, Ohio. $.25.

Any community :group considering the establishment of
a forum will profit greatly if before starting its planning
it becomes thoroughly familiar with the contents of the
booklet, A Forum in Action 1940. A wealth of practical
information on how' to organize and conduct a forum has
been packed into this 24-page booklet telling how the
Woman’s City Club of Cincinnati established a forum.
It is an exceedingly practical document, this booklet, with
the step-by-step procedures it presents, “for,” says Mrs.
Deering, Moderator and Program Chairman of the ex-
periment, “a forum must come down to earth and have
something to do with Main Street.” It is this apprecia-
tion of the need for being practical and the willingness
to profit by mistakes which makes this little manual on
forum procedures so valuable.

Seat Weaving.
By L. Day Perry. The Manual Arts Press, Peoria,
Illinois. $.90.

The Manual Arts‘ Press announces the third edition of
Seat Weaving in enlarged and revised form. The book
contains definite instructions on caning and rush seating
of chairs, how to use canewelbbing, how to do reed and
splint weaving, and how to prepare the raw materials.
The processes are fully illustrated by line drawings and
photographs, and new illustrations give increased clarity
to the processes involved in this interesting craft.

This Way, Please.
By Eleanor Boykin. The MaCmillan Company, New
York. $1.40.

This book of manners has been written with a view
to sparing boys and girls some embarrassing moments by
giving them principles to apply that will make them sure
of themselves. Its purpose is to encourage young people

to get their share of pleasure from social life and to lay
a foundation for making effective contacts in all kinds of
surroundings. The social problems gathered are those
which experience has shown to be of general interest
everywhere. The book is concrete and practical in its
suggestions. Delightful illustrations accompany it.

17 Nu—Slate Games and Puzzles.

By Izola Jensen. Obtainable from Miss Jensen at
Oregon State College, Corvallis, Oregon. $.25 each.
In dozen lots, $.20 each plus postage.

A novel book of seventeen games and puzzles with a
cover resembling a slate and the puzzles inserted in an
envelope inside the cover. To prepare the slate for use,
film sheets are used and a stylus is provided.

Problems and Topics in Safety Instruction.

Prepared by the Safety Education Projects of the

Research Division, National Education Association
of the United States, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., 
Washington, D. C. $.25. ' '1

This publication is designed to supplement the material '
contained in the 1940 Y ear-book of the American Associa-
tion of School Administrators. Its contents include a
statement of objectives, a list of items of learning in II
safety education, activities for teaching safety education,‘
methods of teaching safety, safety activities for teacher?
and principal, pupil safety organizations, and courses of '
study in safety education.

Oflicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

Ilowun BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, ['21.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, I). (3.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, lll.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonvillc, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y. ,
IIARlur P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y. .,
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y. J;
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash. .-
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass. (1
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.

MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, lud.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. ,1.
MRS. JOIIN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. 11.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y. i
H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind. _
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn. J
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.

MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTI-I, Washington, D. C.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington. D. C.

