The Days of the Years

WE STILL HAVE elections and will continue to have them because we are the
the people of the United States. We are citizens.

We still have Thanksgiving Day—in fact two of them. We are still free. Though
we are heavy-hearted for our world, we as a people increasingly work to give
security and the possibility of the pursuit of happiness for all, because the
nations of the world cannot long continue half slave, half free.

We plan to celebrate Christmas, to celebrate the birth of Jesus, to observe the
birthday that gave us the Sermon on the Mount, that made real the ideal
of the brotherhood of man, that made it easier to work for happiness and
strength for all, that gave real foundations for the recreation movement.

We look forward to February 12th and the birthday of Abraham Lincoln. We

pray God that as a nation we may have done and be doing our part so that
we be not ashamed to pause and stand in reverence on that day as we think
of one who thought in terms of all people everywhere, who saw clearly the _
good and the evil in the lives of men but believed that good could be made
in the end to triumph.

We think of February 22nd to come, of the birthday of George Washington, of
one who dared to believe that many geographical groups, many groups of

varied interests still could be one, still could live together in peace, still could
work together, seek and perchancé find happiness together. We are mindful
that the hght for independence was also a hght for unity, a leadership for
working together that in those times required as great a faith as to believe
today that the divided and quarreling groups of the entire world can in
part be led, in part be made to live together, to work together under plans
that give a considerable measure of justice for all, that give a considerable
security for the pursuit of happiness for all.

 

We the people ——- the citizens of no mean state -— observe these holy days, these
holidays, because our country is founded on religion, on education, on rec-
reation, on labor; because the faith, the courage, the dedication which gave
meaning to these holy days, is still ours.

We in the recreation movement strive to make these days in our neighborhoods '
not only holidays and happy days but also holy days.

 

NOVEMBER, I94I

 

477

The I940 Tree of Ligh’r. Housion's ’rwem‘y-second
annual Communily Chrisimas Tree. was buih‘
around one of lhe flag poles in fron’r of +he new
Cily Hall. The iree has been variously locaied—
a+ ’rhe Public Library. on a down’rown sireei
cornerI a’r +he Recrealion Deparlmenl's play-

houseI and for ’rhe pasl lwo years a+ ’rhe new Ci’ry
478

Courtesy Houston, Texas, Department of Recreation

Hall. The programs have includedI in addiiion ’ro
+he formal presen'la'lion of lhe +ree 'lo +he cil'y by
’rhe debulam‘es. rableauxl carol singing. choruses.
and pagean’rs. This year +he Communi’ry Players
sponsored by lhe Deparlmenl of Recrealion wnll
presenl' a full leng'lh play al l'he Music Hall as a
par’r of +he |94| Tree of Lighl Chrisl'mas program.

 

HE CELEBRATION of Christ-

mas, better than almost

any other endeavor, can
be an affair for community
planning in which almost all
the agencies of community
life can work together through
their representatives. Even
though each school, church,
club or other organization has
a celebration of its own and
does not join with the others.
in a single event for all of
them together, there may well
be organization of the whole community for co—
operation in making the most of its resources for
Christmas in its various centers.

As an example of this kind of endeavor, we
present an account of what was done in the town
of Bethlehem, New York, in 1939*

A Decentralized Community Program

The Bethlehem Central School community,
under the direction of local teachers, planned and
staged a Christmas celebration that coordinated
all the town’s Christmas activities. They at-
tempted to avoid duplication of effort, and to make
it possible for children to help make Christmas in
the home and community, not just receive it. It
was so successful that other communities might
well consider it as a possibility when they are
. planning their holiday celebration.

As far back as May, the teachers held a meeting
to discuss this project. A steering committee was
selected and a list of objectives drawn up. It was
decided that the School Exhibit entitled “Little
Town of Bethlehem” should be the high point of
this celebration. This exhibit should relate to
Christmas all school activities such as social
studies, literature, art, music, and recreation. The

topics were divided into ten units and assigned to
teachers.

I After the teachers had done some research, an-
‘ other meeting was held which was attended by
' community organizations such as the Parent-
Teachers Association, churches, Scouts, theater

 

 

'Taken from Community Organization News for November 4,
194_0, issued by the Department of Rural Sociology at. Cornell
University, 'Ithaca, N. .

By A. D. ZANZIG

" 'Eight things are always associated with
Christmas. First and foremost is its re-
ligious signiticance. The other seven are:
hanging the mistletoel burning the Yule
log' the Christmas tree' the Christmas
carolI the greeting card. the Christmas'
stocking. and Santa Claus himself.’ Since
that was written a
tury ago the world has been in a whirl-
pool ot change. but these eight sym-
bols remain unchanged."—Horace J.
Gardner in Let’s Celebrate Christmas.

quarter of a cen-

Christmas in the Community

groups, the .Choral Society,
Red Cross, and others. Every—
one pooled their ideas, and
plans for the school exhibit
and other local activities were
made. It was decided to have
a tentative calendar of events
so everybody would be aware
of all the activities in his
school area. All Christmas
donations of food, clothing,
and toys were received at one
central place and were dis-
tributed systematically. The
decorations of homes, churches, schools, and pub-
lic buildings were planned and executed by one
group. A High School window was painted and
made into a Cathedral stained glass window. High
School students and church choirs combined for
community singing. The Scouts, Camp Fire Girls,
and other organizations contributed to the school
exhibit. A publicity committee was appointed to
handle all publicity related to the celebration and
to present it to the various newspapers.

Thus by the cooperation of all the organizations
in the Central School District, Bethlehem was able
to have a line Christmas celebration that avoided
the usual conflicts and duplication of effort.

Tentative Calendar
Nov. l3—“Christmas Doorways.” Slingerlands Garden
Group. Assistance was given is making wreaths
and other decorations.
Nov. 18—“Christmas Wreaths and Mantel Pieces.” Del-
mar Garden Group. Assistance was given in mak-
ing wreaths and other decorations.

Dec. 5—Christmas gifts for Kentucky people. Junior
Department, First Methodist Church.

Dec. 7—“Mary’s Meditation” Christmas Service in
Chapel, Methodist Women’s Association.

Dec. 8—“Hans Brinker.” Little Theater Committee.
Bethlehem Central High School. AfternOon.

Dec. 12—D.A.R. Yuletide Party. First Methodist Church.
Afternoon.
Candle Light Service. First Methodist Church
Chapel.

Dec. 13—Christmas Play. Bethlehem Center School.
Annual Christmas Concert.

Dec. 15-—-“O, Little Town of Bethlehem.” Bethlehem
Central District Exhibit, Central High School.

Dec. l6—Community Carol Singing. Central High School.
479

480 CHRISTMAS IN THE COJlIMUNITY

Dec. l7—Sunday Morning Worship Service, Cantata and
Tableau “Bethlehem.” First Methodist Church.
Morning.

Other Church services.
White Gift Service, “Golden 'Gifts,” Reformed

Church, Afternoon.
Play “Dust of the Road,” Senior High School
Department. First Methodist Church.

Dec. lS—Christmas Supper Meeting. Men’s Association.
First Methodist Church.

Dec. 19—Union College Glee Club Concert. Central High

School.

Christmas Oratorio “Hora Novissima,” Albany

Oratorio Society. St. Paul’s Episcopal Church.
Dec. ZO—Free Moving Picture. Delmar Theater.

Combined party of Nursery and Kindergarten

and their mothers. Methodist Church. Afternoon.

“Christmas Literature,” Books and Conversation

Group of Methodist Church.
Dec. 21—Family Christmas Party. Reformed Church.

Dec. 24—Morning Church Services.
Dec. 3l——“New Year’s Eve.” An hour to meet old friends

and greet the New Year.

NOTE: Nonperisha'ble food, used toys and clothing may
be left at Delmar Theater December 18—23. Bethlehem

Welfare Council in charge of distribution.

It can easily be seen how this program might in
a larger community include many other groups and
events, including caroling by employees or visit-
ing groups in the larger stores and industrial
plants, and celebrations by various nationality
groups. There is Special value, however, in a join—
ing together of people of all groups in an all-
community endeavor. Even in the Bethlehem plan
just given, there was invitation to carol singing
by the whole community at the high school one
evening.

A Centralizing Factor, the Christmas Tree

A Community Christmas Tree is often the chief
centralizing factor. Carefully chosen, set up in a
central and significant place out of doors and
equipped with appropriate electric lights, the
moment of its lighting, about a week before Christ-
mas, is itself made a festive event.

Houston’s Tree of Light, as it is called, is dedi—
cated with impressive ceremonies before the City
Hall. Through the use of floodlights on the vari-
ous elevations of that building, the pageant of the
Christmas story is given an
unbroken performance. The
combined choruses of the city’s
Recreation Department, which
sponsors the entire event, and
of the Y.W.C.A., sing distinc-
tive carols and also well-known
ones in which the whole as—

This material has been taken from a
bulletin of Christmas suggestions for
home, school. church, recreation cen-
ter, club and community, which was
prepared by Mr. Zanzig for the Uni-
lt is being used
here by permission of the University.

versity of Texas.

   

semblage joins. The singers approach the tree in
procession followed by groups of lantern-bearing
children from the city’s playgrounds, the Girl
Scouts, Boy Scouts, Girl Reserves and the Settle-
ment Association, who then stand as a guard of
honor around the Nativity. The tree towers fifty
feet in the air and is covered with a thousand
twinkling red, blue, orange, green and yellow
lights. At the top, the great star has more than
fifty white lights.

Fort Worth, Texas, has a municipal Tree and
Candle Lighting Ceremony each year. As the time
for it draws near, forty-nine religious, cultural,
civic, educational and other organizations coope-
rate in the planning and each selects a representa-
tive for the pageant. A large triangular candela-r

‘brum of fifty electric candles becomes a symbol of '

community loyalty and good—will. While the multi-
colored lights on the giant Christmas tree in the
background are being reflected in the eyes of
thousands of the city’s people, the lighting of these
candles begins. As the representative of each or-
ganization is introduced, he turns the switch which
lights his candle and then gives a half—minute
Christmas greeting from his organization. Then
the Mayor lights the center candle which towers
above the others, and brings a message from the
city of Fort Worth. A program of choral music
and pantomime follows in which Santa Claus as
well as the Christmas story is represented.

In some cities a different chorus or band or
brass ensemble sings or plays carols every day at
the Community Christmas Tree during the home-
going hour of workers. The lighted evergretn
tree comes to be known then as the “Singng
Tree.” This music is amplified and broadcast so
all may hear. These musical contributions can
bring many different organizations into happy co-
operation.

In some cities there is much encouragement fog
the citizens to have lighted Christmas trees i
front of their houses. Better still, where there are
living evergreens in the community area, some of
these are lighted.

In Lynchburg, Virginia, all the playgrounds
have special trees or shrubs in
which food is placed for the
feathered friends of the chil—
dren. At each of the indoor
recreation centers there is also
a tree, and parties are held.
Many a child makes and places
on the tree a gift for some other

 

CHRISTMAS IN THE COMMUNITY 481

child, and one for his parents. The size of the
tree and the number of lights are of comparatively
little or no consequence. Certainly the lighting and
other decoration should not go beyond the sim-
plicity and spontaneous cheer of the Christmas
spirit. The meaning of the tree is the essential
thing, its ever—fresh green a symbol of the ever-
lasting youth of life, appealing to us as does the
light and wonder in children’s eyes as they look
upon it at the dawn of Christmas. A little tree
humbly decorated may be fuller of this meaning
than a large one. Surely the meaning to us of any
Christmas tree is never so full as when gathered
around it, we are singing carols. Indeed, its mean-
ing begs for singing to bring itself fully home to us.

The Choral Festival

The singing of Handel’s “Messiah” by a com-
munity chorus may become almost as commonly
desired a Christmas expression as is the singing of
carols, so appropriate is it as a Christmas expres-
sion of the whole community. When the fifty-six
year old Handel first saw the words of this ora-
torio, his fortunes were at their lowest ebb. He
had withdrawn entirely from public life, and his

erstwhile enthusiastic patrons and followers in
London believed him finished. The “libretto,” as
he called it, was presented to him in the latter part
of August, 1741. Seven days later he had com—
posed all the music for the first part of the work,
nine days thereafter the second part was com-
pleted, and the third required only six days more.
Then in two days he filled in the orchestral parts.
The music for the whole oratorio was written in

twenty-four days, “the greatest feat,” says a

biographer, “in the whole history of musical com—
position!”

Here was a great man supremely inspired by the
pr0phecy and fulfillment of Christmas. His creat-
ing was as though he were in a superb dream. He
was unconscious of the world and of time. He did
not leave his house. His man-servant brought him
food and often upon returning to him later, found
the food untouched and the master staring into
vacancy. Upon completion of the Hallelujah
Chorus, his servant found him at the table, tears
streaming from his eyes, and exclaiming, “I did
think I did see all Heaven before me, and the
great God Himself!”

The church choirs are likely to be very busy

 

Courtesy Caspian, Michigan, Community Center

482 CHRISTMAS IN THE COMMUNITY

preparing music for Christ-
mas services in their re-
spective churches, and it is
important that each church
make its own complete musi-
cal gift to the Child for its
own worshippers. But it can
be a superb experience for
singers and listeners, and a great and lasting bene-
fit in community spirit, when all the choirs or a
fully representative number of them join in a
good performance of the “Messiah” or of some
other line, suitable choral program. It can be
greatly worth while for the individual churches to
forego for the sake of this community goal some
of the special music they have expected of their
choirs in their own Christmas services.

This idea is all the more reasonable when we
realize how ready every congregation is to sing at
those services. Why not give the congregation
still fuller opportunity then, and relieve the choir
of its unusual efforts at pretentious anthems, ask-
ing only that it help well in the singing of carols?
Besides singing one or two less familiar ones or
some other old simple Christmas music alone, the
choir might sing some of the more familiar ones
antiphonally with the congregation, give a beauti-
fully enlivening descant to the latter’s singing of
one or more of the carols, and in other ways make
this in full truth a service of joyous and reverent
worship by the whole congregation. Thus the
choir would have time to join in the community
service of joy and beauty that the singing of the
“Messiah” can be. If adequate enough, it could
include in its own church service the singing of a
chorus from that work.

The community chorus should, however, include
interested secular singing groups, if there are any,
as well as the choirs, and also any chorally unat-
tached individuals who can and want to join. The
whole enterprise might be sponsored by a local
newspaper, in each of whose daily issues during a
certain period a registration blank might be printed
to be filled out by the reader wishing to enter the
chorus. The announcement might include also the
name and rehearsal place of each choir or district
group (if the choirs or other groups are to re—
hearse separately) and there could be a personnel
committee to help determine into which group any
new applicant would be most helpfully and con-
veniently placed.

A miscellaneous program of Christmas choral
music can also be very enjoyable and inspiring.

Association song

Groups planning community Christmas
celebrations may wish to know that there

are available from the National Recreation
sheets containing the

words of ten favorite Christmas carols.
These may be secured at $.80 per hundred.
A bulletin containing the stories of nine
of these carols is also available at l5 cents.

So many beautiful and sub-
stantial arrangements have .
been made of carols, and ex-
cellent original music writ-
ten also. There is music for
the community orchestra
also, including such worksl
. of child-like imagination as
the Hansel and Gretel Overture and the Saint-
Saens “Carnival of Animals” as well as more di—
rectly related works like Corelli’s beautiful Christ-
mas Concerto.

The Carol Festival 1

Whether the chorus be a large one representa- I
tive of the whole community, or a smaller one—
perhaps the high school or college a capella choir—-
a choral concert of carols can be a most happy
affair, held in a concert hall, church auditorium or
out-of—doors at the Christmas tree. If indoors,
some of the features of a procession and a candle-
lighting ceremony might be added. I

A procession with lighted candles protected from.
wind can add much to the outdoor festival also.
The audience should have opportunity to sing:
also, now and then in the program, and this op-
portunity or preparation for it should extend back
into weeks or a month before the concert, so that
in schools, clubs and all other places or groups' ‘
where singing is appropriate the same carols will|
be learned. The community Christmas Committee
might include this preparation in its planning, mak-
ing ready also to provide good song leaders where
they are needed for the purpose. In some cities
the newspapers and a radio station have cooper-
ated in what has been called a “Learn-a-Carol-a—
Day”_project. We suggest that one or two old
carols very new to many present-day people be
included each year.

 

 

Caroling and the Story of the Inn

In the gathering dusk of Christmas Eve, the
feelings of wonder, suspense and joyous good will
are brought most happily to each family when a
roaming group of carolers pauses to sing before
its candle-lighted windows. It is pleasant to know,
in relation to this custom that has become more
and more general in the United States, a Mexican
tradition in keeping with which, as neighbors call
at one another’s houses in a Christmas visit, they
come with warm memory of the coming of Mary
and Joseph to the inn at Bethlehem; and as each
family is visited, its members are eager to make

CHRISTMAS IN THE COMMUNITY 483

C"

room and good cheer at their inn” for these
friendly visitors. _

There is also the well-nigh universal legend that
on every Christmas Eve the Christ Child “wanders
up and down, in country land or crowded town”
to see whether people are willing to let Him in.
Those who really want to invite Him set a lighted
candle in the window of their home to guide Him
on His way. He may come in the guise of a
hungry person or lonely one or one who needs
help of some other kind, and those who serve this
needy person serve Him also. Remembering this,
the people in charge of planning for caroling in
some cities have let it be known that wherever a
lighted candle is placed in a window, not only are
the carolers and their singing welcome, but they
are also to receive a gift in money or goods to be
given for the enjoyment or other benefit of the
children of the poor. For example, the caroling
groups from a music school settlement in Cleve-
land received money to be used to make good
music instruction available to more children whose
families were unable to pay even the very moder-
ate rates of that school. But most carolers have in
mind only the wish to bring in song wherever they
go the Christmas spirit.

Usually a plan is made by a central committee
for enabling the caroling groups together to dis-
tribute their services through—
out the community. This com-
mittee is representative of
schools, churches and Sunday
Schools, recreation centers and
all other agencies that are or
might be interested in helping.
Carolers will doubtless be wel-
come at hospitals, orphanages,
homes for old people, and even
the jail, as well as hotels, rail-
road stations, stores and pri-

BLACKOUT
THE SHADOW! _ ;

vate homes. CLOSE to all of us is the threatening

spectre of tuberculosis. No respecter
of persons, it lurks in every corner, may
strike at any moment. More people be-
tween 15 and 45 die from tuberculosis
than from any other disease.

_ The Centralia, Illinois, Rec-
[' reation Department found still
‘ another way to spread the
Christmas spiritwhen one of
its girls’ clubs decided to say a
Merry Christmas tothose who
are unfortunate enough to be
traveling by train on Christ-
mas Day and cannot be in their
homes. The girls, neatly dressed
in fresh Christmas colors, each
carrying a basket of evergreen

loved ones.

 

Yet tuberculosis am be driven from
the face of the earth. Since 1907 your
Local Tuberculosis Association has helped
reduce the toll of tuberculosis by 75%!

By buying Christmas Seals you will
help us complete the job—and make
this a safer world for yourself and your

Buy
CHRISTMAS

 

sprigs, boarded the train and gave each passenger
a. “spirit sprig,” a smile and a cheery greeting. A
pin was given also with each sprig. A carol might
have been sung as the children boarded or left the
train. On the next day telephone calls from the
central Chicago offices of the Illinois Central Rail-
road began to come to southern Illinois. “Where
did those sprigs come from?” was the query.
Travelers had written or telephoned to the railroad
officials to tell of their appreciation. Later came a
letter from the president of the company con-
gratulating the girls.

The carolers are usually drawn from the schools,
churches, recreation centers and boys’ and girls’
clubs. Christmas Eve, between four and six or
early after the dinner hour, is an ideal time for the
caroling, though Christmas morning is very ap—
propriate also. People throughout the community
should know of the plan and of the meaning and
loveliness of lighted candles in their windows.
They might like to know also how to make wreaths
and other Special decorations for their windows,
doors, dining tables and mantel-pieces. The book,
1001 Christmas Facts and Fancies, by Alfred Carl
Hottes, published by A. T. De La Mare Company,
448 West 37th Street, New York City, at $2.50,
contains excellent pictures, diagrams and direc-

' tions for all these, as well as much other informa-

tion helpful in making the
Christmas observance more
meaningful. In Bethlehem, New
York, it will be remembered,
direct instruction was offered
in making Christmas decora-
tions.

It is best for the caroling
group to go afoot, perhaps car-
rying lighted lanterns which
can be home-made. If the car-
olers must ride, as they should
if the area to be traversed is
large, the ideal conveyance (if
the weather has been in keep—
ing) is a large sleigh drawn
by horses with sleigh bells. But
even an automobile truck can
be decorated with greens and
perhaps with a lighted Christ-
mas tree to make it a worthy
bearer of the season’s joy and
beauty, and the ringing of
sleigh bells may accompany its
leisurely progress. The carolers

SEALS

484 CHRISTMAS IN THE COMMUNITY

themselves may well be “decorated” with red capes
and caps or the like.

Each group should have a leader able to give a
proper starting pitch for each carol, to ensure a
good tempo and rhythm, and to keep up the proper
Spirit in the carolers. It might be of much help if
someone capable of playing it would bring along a
violin, guitar, accordion, cornet or more appropri-
ately a flute, clarinet, recorder, shepherd pipe,
fiagolet or ocarina. Remembering the importance
of singing carols well, the group should rehearse
the carols several times before Christmas Eve.
“Here We Come A-VVas'sailing” is an especially
appropriate carol. It and some of the countless
other delightful carols, such as have been mentioned
herein, that are seldom or never played through
the radio, are very welcome indeed. But the very
familiar ones must not be neglected. Descants are
effective even in a small group and out-of—doors.
It is better, of course, to learn a few carols very
well beforehand, by heart if feasible than to sing
many but none of them very well. A local news-
paper might be able and willing to provide carol
booklets for all the singers.

1f the town or city has a community Christmas
tree, the singers might all gather around it after
their rounds have been made, and after a final song
together, have the heightened social pleasure and
refreshment of sandwiches and hot chocolate or the
like. Then to their homes to spend the rest of
Christmas Eve or Morn with their own families.

The Folk Festival

In many c'ommunities are to be found persons
whose family origins in other countries are still
fresh or easily awakened sources of cherished
Christmas songs and customs of the pe0ple of
those countries. Texas is especially rich in such
human wealth of its citizens of Czech, French,
German, Italian, Mexican, Negro, Swedish and
other Scandinavian cultures as well as those of the
prevailing Anglo—Celtic ones. What are the
Christmas customs and songs of each of these peo-
ples? Let the local numbers of them look happily
into their backgrounds and answer this question
not only in words but also in a festival of their
customs and songs.

For reminders and encouragement in this, they
or the instigators of the idea of a festival might
refer to the Hottes book mentioned above, to a
25-cent bulletin issued by the Common Council for
American Unity, 222 Fourth Avenue, New York,
entitled Old World Christmas Customs, and to

Press, 600 Lexington Avenue, New York. $.50.
In the latter book is a festival program of Christ-
mas songs and customs entitled “Following the
Star.” Another such festival program especially
suitable where time, space and funds are more
narrowly limited, also compiled by Dorothy Gladys
Spicer for the same publisher at 35 cents, is en-
titled Yuletide Wakes, Yuletide Breaks, and it is
comprised of customs and songs of Czechoslovakia,
Italy, Sweden, Greece, Armenia, Mexico, Poland
and Russia. In such a festival also the audience
should have opportunity to sing now and then.
Ideally, they would have opportunity to learn or
hear a number of times a carol of each represented
nationality in the week or weeks before the festival
and, at least, to sing these at the festival.

Dorothy Gladys Spicer’s Folk Festivals and the
Foreign Community, published by the Womans
I

The gay and often lovely customs and carols of
Merrie England are always warmly welcome and
most generally felt to be our own, as the others can
well be. And there will always be in our most
common modes of celebrating Christmas some
aspects or qualities that are distinctively American.
For example, the ruddy, rotund and jolly Santa
Claus who comes to our children at Christmas time
is an American transformation of the very kindly
but pale and ascetic bishop, St. Nicholas, who.
brought gifts to good children on December 6th
in most of Western Europe, and who was brought
to this country by Dutch tradition in the days
when New York was New Amsterdam. Reborn,
this Santa Claus has been winning allegiance of
children in some other countries.

“Perhaps the first of all the Christmas carols
was that sung in the heavens by the angels, ‘Glory'
to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good
will toward men’—the ‘Gloria, in Excelsis.’

“We are not sure why many of our Christmas
songs are called carols, but it is pleasant to think
of the word as coming from the Latin which meant
‘to dance in a ring,’ and it very true that some of
our first songs of this sort were accompanied by
exceeding happiness, attendant upon dancing.
Others like to think of the world ‘carol’ as having
the same derivation as the word ‘chorus.’ Some
say ‘carols are the layman’s most beautiful contri-
bution to his religion.’ Most of the oldest carols
have no known history and are merely the spon-
taneous outbursts of some forgotten inan’s joyous-
ness.”—From 1001 Christmas Facts and F ancies.

//

A   R «rutrrlllt’il - _
CHRISTMAS 'PAR 

By LEAH SEWELL

///////////////////////M//////Wmmnm.

 

invitations. These are in the shape of polar bears,
or of the other animals pictured in the illustration

IT 15 HIGH TIME to be thinking of Christmas fes—
on page 487. You can make them of construction

tivities, even though there are still one or two
intervening holidays. If you can let your fancy

 

float from its everyday moorings for a while, we
‘ have an idea for what, it seems to us, would be a
gay and novel party with which to usher in the
Christmas season. If it appeals to you, you will
doubtless have additions and variations of your
own to introduce to suit your particular environ-
ment. It would be appropriate for a club social
evening, or for a bazaar or
fair of considerable propor-
tions.

The setting for the party
is the North Pole. Mr. and
Mrs. Santa Claus have just
moved into a new home. The
demands upon them have
increased so much that they
have outgrown their old ice-
berg. They are in the midst
of their Christmas rush, but
in spite of this they have

decided to give a house-
warming.

Invitations and Posters

If you can get into this
mood of fantasy, as children
enter wholeheartedly into
the milieu of a fairy tale,
you are ready to start on the

 

Posters help create a
Christmas atmosphere

paper, folded, tracing the illustration, and leaving
about an inch and a half on one side uncut. Some
of the bears can be of white paper, lettered in deep
sky blue, and some of blue lettered in white. On
the outside is printed: “Polar Messenger Service.”
Inside, the legend runs like this:

“Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus, at home, December
the . . . . . ., 1941, Christmas
Cove, North Pole. Guests
will assemble at . . . ., . . . .,
and transportation to the
Pole will be provided.”

Posters should appear
shortly after the invitations
are out, to keep the date in
mind, and to stimulate ex—
pectancy and create suspense.

POLAR CHRISTMAS PARTY
MR. AND MRs. SANTA CLAUS

AT HOME
DECEMBER . . . . . . . .

The posters are sky blue
and white, and they may, if
you wish, have a few stars
dotted here and there to
suggest the Arctic night. Or
they may be just as pictured
in the illustration, (blue and
white, with trimmings of

485

 
  

486

Christmas greens, may be the color scheme for the
whole party.) A mobile Christmas ball hangs from
a bright ribbon. suspended from a peg stuck into
the poster. On the ball is drawn a map of the

world, and near the Pole is a little blue flag to .

indicate the new Santa Claus residence.

Lighting and Decorations

The room where the party takes place should be
very dimly lighted. At the far end, on a raised
platform, if one is available, is the Santa Claus
living room. By the decorations around the plat—
form you recognize at once that the location is an
iceberg.

Against the wall, behind the platform, hangs a
lightly tinted blue curtain made of some inexpen-
sive fabric or dyed muslin, and upon this you can
have a play of colored lights representing the
aurora borealis. This may be
contrived with a few spot-
lights and colored gelatin
papers, or by strong bulbs
with improvised reflectors,
each bulb shining through
colored fabric or paper.

The Booths

Have the booths, in the
likeness of igloos, placed on
each side of the room near
the Santa Claus home, for the
Eskimos are their only,near neighbors. (See illus-
tration.) The low part of the igloo is the door-
way, and it also serves as shelter for the Eskimo
dogs. It will probably be better to have that side
towards the windows and let the taller end be the
open side, for the display. In every group there is
sure to be at least one person with constructive
skill, so you will probably have no difficulty in
having the igloos put up. Chicken wire and barrel
staves could be used to get the rounded appear-
ance, and cotton batting sprinkled with sparkle
Hakes will be effective for snow. Whale oil lamps
might be simulated for lighting them inside. Out-
side each igloo you must have a totem pole, a vital
part of every Eskimo home.

There is a great bustle of Christmas activity
going on within each igloo. The whole scene should
have the atmosphere of preparation for a large
festival. Here popcorn balls or puffed rice balls
are being made. At the North Pole these will
naturally become caramel snowballs.

In the next igloo articles are being made such

 

Booths which are made to resemble
igloos add an appropriate touch

A POLAR CHRISTMAS PARTY

as mittens, moccasins, aprons, and all manner of
things for sale or for Christmas gifts. Toy mak-
ing, the baking of Christmas cookies, and the
stuffing of dates and prunes with nuts are under
way elsewhere.

' At a fair or bazaar there is sure to be a quilt or
bedspread to be chanced off, and this will be on
display in another igloo. Since only one can win,
favors in the form of little typed lines of prediction

' could be given by way of consolation to those who

buy chances. At a club social there must be

fortunetelling.

Polar Animals

The polar animals we all know best must be
represented at your party, and posters or cutouts
of colored construction paper or painted cardboard
will be an effective part of your scheme of decora-
tion. See illustration on page
487 and suggestions for
making the cutouts.

Costumes

There will have to be aides
for a party of these dimen—
sions, and they can add little
Eskimo touches to their dress
without being too literal. A
piece of fur tied under the
chin will make a very nice
parka, or hood, for a girl, and
the boys can wear sports jackets or blazers, with
perhaps some ridiculous touch, such as a string of
beads or a little piece of fur about the collar.

Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus must be spirited and
possessed of some dramatic instinct. They are-
seated in their living room when the guests begin
to arrive. Mrs. Santa is knitting; her husband is
reading some belated Christmas mail, and in
between times he whittles on a toy. Santa’s cos-
tume presents no problem. Mrs. Santa wears a
simple white gown with a long red chiffon scarf
fastened to her wrists with velvet bands and How-
ing loosely. Around her hair is a bright red ribbon
with a sprig of holly in the bow.

The room is gay with Christmas greens, wreaths
and sprays of holly and bright ribbons. These,
with the blue and white decorations suggesting the
clear Polar_nights, have a lovely effect and create
a festive feeling.

Party Activities

As 'the guests enter, each is given a numbered

tag differing in color'for girls and boys. Through

 

A POLAR CHRISTMAS PARTY 487

these they find their partners for the grand march.
For any sort of party that runs to considerable
numbers, this is always a Splendid way of getting
things started. .

The leaders of the march should be chosen in
advance. Santa Claus will probably say a word of
welcome to the guests and then the music starts.
The marchers carry sprigs of holly or Christmas
greensand they sing as they go. “Deck the Halls
with Wreaths of Holly,” is a fine, gay tune known
to almost everyone, and it would be well to begin
the march with it. As the guests pass before Santa
and his Wife, each pair does a little turn for the
sake of mirth and jollity, polonaise fashion, as the
old courtiers used to dance before the King.

In return for this courtesy, Santa makes a speech,

.and perhaps tells a Christmas story or reads a
Christmas poen1..

For a purely social occasion, Mrs. Santa now
takes over. She proposes. charades, and divides
the company into tours for this special Christmas
game. Alert to see, however, that nothing drags
on for too long, she soon suggests another game——
Harpooning the Whale, which is a North Pole
version of darts.

A large cardboard whale, besprinkled with small
numbered circles, is hung against the wall on one
side of the room.
If anyone is so
lucky as to hit
the hundred
mark he wins a
prize, a tinned
plum pudding,
or perhaps a tin
of fruit cake. If
two or more
make the same
score, they will
have the fun of
playing off for
a final winner.
The darts with
vacuum cups
a r e  u s t a s
mirth—provok-
ingand less haz-
ardous than
t h o s e w i t h
points.

It is always a
good idea to
have a few card”

 
 

   

as you wish.

III-u.-

llIdhEE-u 'IE I.
. I In

lE-KIHIIIIMNII
l§§5EIllllmwll
III. III

EEWi

   
  

III

Imaglsliiililn
luugnliiillnlr
HEELEEEEQ-ZA

To enlarge these animals to the size ,desired, draw squares as large
Count the number of squares in the illustration
shown' and then draw corresponding lines in the bigger squares:
that is' it the front slant of the head takes three little squares.
draw a similar line in the same position in the larger squares, using
the same number of spaces. You will find it very simple to do.

tables to set up in case, because of difference in
ages or general inclination, some guests should
prefer to play Guggenheim or some table or word
games.

For smaller children a seal race would be appro-
priate. They could “race” with their hands held
or tied to their sides and their feet tied together,
shuffling forward in imitation of the awkward gait
of seals. An obstacle race is also a good game for
young, active children.

Santa Claus now comes forward with a Special
entertainment feature. It is called “What Do You
Know,” and is to be broadcast. Santa calls for
volunteer victims from the audience, who will be

I his experts. Five or six people go to the platform

and seat themselves around the table.

Santa has a basketful of written questions. They
pertain to Christmas chiefiy— identifying Christ-
mas songs, stories, and poems; supplying the first
lines‘ of songs and poems when the last are played
or read. There are questions, too, about Polar ex-
plorers, weather, and animals. When the experts
fail, the audience is invited to supply the answer.

During this time Mrs. Santa Claus and the
leader of the party have been getting ready to
have a dog-sled race. Long streamers of half—inch
tape are tied to a goal. Six or eight contestants

are about the

right number at

 a time. By a
stretch of the
imagination,
each one is driv-
ing a dog team
in a race. A
small pair of
scissors is given
to the racers,
and at the start-
ing signal they
b e g i n t o c u t
down the mid-
dle of the tape,
the object being
to get to the
goal as quickly
as possible with-
out cutting off
an end of tape.
The spectators
stand on the

      

        
    

   

 

    

I
Ill]

   

(Continued on
page 523)

488

 

E ALL RECALL how Dr. John H. Finley on his birthday, October 19th, each
w year walked around Manhattan, New York City. We remember also how

he kept track of the miles walked each day and marked an equivalent distance
on a map of Europe, Africa or Asia, reading up about the place at which he had
arrived at nightfall so as. to know more about the earth on which we all dwell.

In honor of its famous walker, the city of New York has erected at SIst and
86th Streets on the East Side Drive wrought-iron signposts with the silhouette
of Dr. Finley on one of his walks. Through the courtesy of Stanley Isaacs, Presi-
dent of the Borough of Manhattan, the original model of these signposts was on
display at the Baltimore Recreation Congress where it aroused much interest.

The season in which Dr. Finley’s birthday falls, it has been suggested, might
be an appropriate time to face the problems of tramping in our various city recrea-
tion systems and perhaps in certain cities to inaugurate walking clubs that shall be
known as “John H. Finley Walking Groups.”

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

 

Katcihina Dolls

By MARGUERITE ICKIS

HERE ARE MANY legends about
Tthe Katchina dolls and how

they came to be so loved and venerated by the
Hopi Indians. The one that seems most logical as
well as the most delightful runs substantially as
follows:

Many centuries ago, the Hopis far outshone and
outdistanced all the other Indian tribes. In the
arts of war and of peace they were supreme.
Victory ever attended them on the warpath, and
in husbandry and crafts they were gifted and in-
dustrious, so that finally they came to rule all the
land in the Southwest.

The Hopi braves knew
many secrets of the soil: how
to till, how and when to plant
for the best yield, and how
to store their food safely for
use between seasons. Their

young men were especially
clever at hunting and stalk-
ing for wild game, and they

The simplicity of construction of these
Katchina dolls makes them a practical
item for either a day camp or an indoor
program. The materials and tools neces-
sary are few—some wood. a pocket knife.
a coping saw' and water colors. And in
addition to the fun of making the dollsI
the proiect offers an excellent means of
leading the children into an appreciation
of our treasure house of Indian folk lore. in wholesome respect and

had their own particular ways of
preserving the meat and curing
the hides. The women were skilled in weaving,
pottery making, dyeing, basketry, and in all the
other crafts known to the Indians of today.

Health habits were held in high regard and the
children were taught to keep their hands and faces
clean and to care for their hair.

Even the evil spirits, so disastrous, it seemed,
in their control over the other tribes, were power-
less in the domain of the Hopis. So it is easy to
see why they came to be acknowledged as the
greatest of all the tribes in
America.

The Hopis themselves un-
derstood the secret of their
own supremacy. It all came
from the favor of the Kat-
chinas. And they took care
that all their children should
hold these protecting spirits

489

490 KATCHINA DOLLS

veneration. In the very long ago, so goes the
legend, the Hopis were no better and no worse
than the other tribes. By some quality or in some
way that even the eldest grandsire among them
could not name, they attracted the interest of a
strange little people who must be gods, or at least
demi—gods. These came to them out of the great
invisible realm and taught them all manner of
wisdom and many, many kinds of crafts and skills;
and gratefully the Hopis followed their counsel
and so grew strong and mighty.

Now these Katchinas, as they were called, were
not lovely to look upon, as one might expect such
superior beings to be. Indeed, they were grotesque,
with gnome-like bodies, huge heads and awkward
stumpy legs. Each Katchina had his special field
of activity. There was the Rain Maker, the Water
Maiden, the Storyteller, the Sister, and even the
Clown, who taught them to be merry lest all work
and no play make them dull.

In gratitude for all this care, the Hopis gave a
grand feast once a year to honor their friends and
guardians. After long hours of feasting and cele-
bration it was customary for the Katchinas to take
their .leave and return to their own habitation,
which none but they knew.

The Hopis had often wondered why the good
Katchinas were so ugly in appearance, but this
thought was never voiced until on one occasion,
at the end of the yearly festival, after the kind
protectors had-gone, a young Hopi brave spoke up
and made a rude jest about their hideous faces and
their clumsy bodies, and—alas for the Hopis—
many others agreed with him.

Now one Katchina, slower, perhaps, or more
inclined towards festivity than
the rest, had lingered behind,
and he overheard this criticism.
He told his peo—
ple and natur-
ally their anger
was kindled
against the un-
grateful Hopis,
whose destiny
they had so long
guided. They
withdrew their
favor, and, from
that moment,
the fortunes of
t h e H o p i s
changed. Tem-

The Rain Maker. the Stotyteller.
the Water Maiden and the Clown

take part in this Katchina game

 

pest and drought destroyed their crops, their skills
and sagacity left them, and rival tribes took quick
and sharp advantage of their weakness and failure.

The Hopis repented deeply of their ingratitude I i
and they begged the Katchinas to restore them to
favor and prosperity. And this they finally did.

So, in happiness at being again guided and pro-
tected by their powerful friends, they began to
fashion wooden dolls to represent the different
Katchinas. Most lovingly and carefully were they
made, so that no offense might be given. Each
Katchina character is costumed to express his
special mission and every color and device has a
particular meaning, and this the Hopis faithfully
reproduced in the dolls.

The dolls are, to this day, the lares and penates
of the Hopis, and during the year the fathers make
the dolls, which are given to the children at the
close of the annual celebration. Every child of the
tribe learns what each doll ‘stands for—an ex-
tensive religious education, since there are about
five hundred different kinds of Katchinas.

To the Hopis the dolls are religious symbols,
not toys. When the child reaches the age of un-
derstanding he is taught the symbolism of these
strange Katchina images and it becomes his re-
sponsibility as a tribe member to help keep the
Hopis in the good graces of the Katchinas.

Katchina Game

The Katchinas shown are used in a game. Each
Katchina has a hole in the bottom which would
hide a marble or small pebble. The object of the
game is for one contestant to hide a marble under
one doll and for another to make three guesses as
to where the marble is located.

The Rain Maker has tadpoles
on his headdress to symbolize
the coming of
rain. He is the
most important
Katchina, as
rain is essential
to the crops.

The Storyteller
has a little leg-
end attached to
him. He was
w a l k i n g
throughthe
Woods when the
birds lighted on
his head and

l

 

KATCHINA DOLLS 491

shoulders. So this Kat—
china has bird feathers
and foot tracks on his
head. He tells funny
stories to the tribe.

The Water Maiden ap—
pears during the rain
dance. Her headdress is
of clouds with rainbow
colors.

The Clown does silly
dances in much the same
way as our circus clowns,
and is a general fun—
maker at the ceremonies.

  

. ‘ , .

. ‘ ’ i I
u ‘ {JIL‘y’A-‘I‘JIVS a

JAM -4  I

 :1! 11:21:}

-i-l-'—I— _l-l-’-I-

    
 

.Directions for Making
the Dolls

The dolls are carved
from wood and decorated
with symbolic designs in
keeping with the charac-
ter represented. For in-
stance, the Corn Grower
has the top of his head
painted blue to represent
the sky. The zig—zag haloharound his face portrays
the lightning that accompanies the rain, and there
are tiny white dots on top of the notches to sig—
nify snow. The back of the neck is painted green
to represent the green fields; then there are white
splotches at the top to suggest clouds in the sky.
Three ears of corn painted on the face in blue, red,
and yellow signify the three species of corn grown
by the Hopis.

There are over five hundred characters in the
Katchina family, and it is possible for the lay per-
son to have only a slight understanding of their
significance and perhaps to learn about one or
two of the characters.

All of the dolls are of the same general shape:
round bodies with arms carved at the sides and
hands almost meeting at the front. The male
characters usually wear a long
skirt with a gaily colored sash
tied at the side. The feet are,
short and stumpy, and the head
is short and round with append—
ages such as ears, horns, or nose
carved out of separate pieces of
wood in accordance with the
different characters. The women
sometimes wear a cape and some—

 

 

times have elaborate
headdresses such as those
worn by the H0pi women
of today.

The most striking and
elaborate of the Katchinas
is Memun, or the Chief
of all the Katchinas. He
was the wise man who
came to the Hopi coun-
cils and influenced their
leaders to make wise de—
cisions in times of peace
or war. He is dignified
by a tall seven-sided
headdress which pro-
claims his distinction as
a law-giver. The eagle
feathers in his headdress
symbolize his kingly
quality, for he has powers
beyond the other Kat-
chinas, even as the eagle
has powers beyond those
of other birds.

To make a Katchina
doll, take a piece of sugar pine 2”x2”x6”. You
may use a larger or smaller piece if you prefer.
Round off the edges with a penknife.

Next cut the headpiece from a piece of wood
3/ 16” in thickness and glue it around the top of
the head. Cut the red fox also from wood of the
same thickness and attach it at the back. Carve
out the arms in relief. Shape the skirt, and make
the two feet by using a coping saw at first and
shaping them with a knife, sandpapering them later.

The halo is painted in dark blue, light blue, and
white. The blouse is black, the skirt white, and
the sash red with red, rich blue, and black trim-
mings. A skin of a red fox (painted in natural
color) is tied on the waist at the back and a bunch
of feathers is attached to the back of the neck.

Small holes are drilled around the top of the
headdress into which tiny feath—
ers are inserted and held in place
with glue.

  

-1-

   

Sources of Information

 

There are many sources to
which one may go to find au'-

' thentic designs for Katchina
dolls. Many museums have ex—

(Continued on page 529)

 

The Indian Give Away ,

By REBA ESH

   
     
   
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    
    
 
   
   
 
    
   
   
     
     
     
       
     
     
    

Indian gave white man gifts to make friends. He, by
custom, expected gifts in return. White man did not
understand and gave none. Indian took the gifts
away. So we now have the expression, "Indian Giver."

HERE IS AN Indian charm string around this story of an Indian

Give Away ceremony which was used first at Camp Sequoyah

during the Southern Counselors’ Institute, and later at Camp
Greeley in Pennsylvania. Contrary to the frequent difficulties be-
tween the early settlers and the Indians, we exchanged gifts and
pledges of eternal friendship, and thus acquired our charm strings
to keep for memory’s sake.

A week before the appointed time for the Indian Friendship
Dance, or Give Away, each counselor and camper drew the name
of one person for whom he was to plan to have a gift. When the
dance beat of the tom-tom called the dancer .into the circle, he
would go to his friend, present the gift, and dance around the circle
with the gift held up for everyone to see. Of course he would
receive one in return. He would also need one for the person who
had drawn his name. Besides these two, each camper was allowed
two gifts for persons of his own choosing. In the event that he
received presents and had none to return, he would ask the tom-
tom player to announce that .he would call at the “giver’s teepee”
the next day with an article of equal value.

At first there was quite a furor in camp about what kind of
gifts to buy and where to purchase them. Perhaps the craft coun-
selor’s wishful thinking made someone suggest the craft shop, or it
may have been her charm string that persuaded them to make their

own gifts! At least the shop

Since Dr.Bernard S.Mason.Editorof was a busy place all week.
The Camping Magazine, taught Nearly everything was made

the dance. Miss Esh suggests him as in miniature. The exceptions

the best possible source of informa- were bracelets, necklaces, and
tion on music and dance steps. He bookmarks

may be addressed at 39|6 War- We made t0m_toms from

wick Avenue. Cincinnati. Ohio. Miss _ , _
Esh herself. whose address is Mil- one mCh sectlons 0f SthkS

roy. Pennsylvania, will be glad to WhiCh were One inch in
answer inquiries about the crafts. (Continued 0,, page 530)

   

492

 

In the National Emergency

By GEORGE HJELTE

URING the past year I

haye been absent for

considerable periods.
In February, upon the re-
quest of the Federal Se-
curity Administration, I
visited Army cantonments
on the west coast and ren-
‘dered reports concerning
facilities and programs in
communities adjacent to
such cantonments. Follow-
ing this service, I was
called to active duty in the
Navy Department for a
period of three months,
and was assigned the pleas-
ant task of making a sur-
vey of recreation facilities,
programs and leadership
in naval stations on the
Pacific, Great Lakes, At-
lantic, and Gulf Coasts. In the performance of this
duty I inspected fifty-two naval shore stations of
one kind or another and inquired into the status of
public recreation in adjacent communities, estab-
lishing the presence or absence of liaison between
the naval stations and systems of public recreation.

In the course of my tour I had an opportunity
to meet many members of the Society of Recrea-
tion Workers of America across the country and
to form an Opinion concerning the present status
of the recreation movement and conditions affect-
ing professional recreation workers affiliated with
the movement.

During the past year,
many professional workers
have been called to combat-
ant service in the military
and naval forces. Others,
after being called, have been
assigned to recreational
duties in the armed forces.
Still others have been called
by the Federal Security Ad-

In Mr. Hielte's unavoidable_absence from
the meeting of the Society of Recreation
Workers of America held at the Baltimore
Recreation CongressI his presidential ad-
dress was read by V. K. Brown of Chicago.
C. E. Brewer of Detroit, Vice-President of
the Society' presided. Mr. Hielte. in ad-
dition to performing his duties as Super-
intendent of the Los Angeles Playground
and Recreation Department, is also serving
as Director of the local Defense Council.

   

ministration to assist local communities in setting
up suitable facilities and programs of recreation in
communities adjacent to Army camps and naval
stations.

I have been impressed with the patriotic devo-
tion of members of our profession. They have wil-
lingly offered themselves to the army and naval
services and are performing, wherever they are
assigned, in a manner reflecting great credit upon
themselves and their profession. Those who have
not been drafted to work in new fields have re-
doubled their efforts at home, for the local needs

_ are even greater than before,
although in many cases re-
sources to meet these needs
have not increased.

During the Past Year

As we look back over the
past year, we are profoundly
impressed with the vast
changes which have taken
place in our social and eco-

493

494 IN THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY

nomic organization. We have seen the transfor-
mation from a nation almost wholly absorbed in
the arts of peace to one armed for defense against
aggressor nations and organized to defend the
democratic way of life. Our industry has not only
expanded at an unprecedented rate, but its charac-
ter has largely changed, causing severe adjust-
ments to be made by many workers. Unemploy—
ment, which loomed as the principal problem of
the day before this rapid transformation began,
has now, except for temporary technological un-
employment, largely disappeared.

These changes have not been without effect upon
the recreation movement and upon people en-
gaged professionally in it. The effects have so far
been favorable. Recreation has been accorded an
almost universal recognition as an activity essen-
tial to the national welfare in the present emer-
gency. This recognition
seems to have been accord—
ed by the general public to
a degree heretofore un-
precedented. Few have
raised a voice to question
the importance of recrea-
tion for men in the Army
and Navy. Well selected
and competently conducted
recreation has been granted
recognition as an important
factor in the training of the
soldier or sailor. It has
also been recognized as a force contributing to
high morale. It is true that there are other factors
affecting the morale of the men in the service, but
few will question that this morale is adversely af-
fected when facilities for wholesome recreation are
lacking, and that it is favorably affected when con-
structive attention is given to suitable recreation.

The morale of the men who have offered their

services in the defense of the nation is heightened ,

when they realize that a high value is placed upon
their services, and when they are individually
given some sign of recognition of this appreciation.
Such recognition cannot be given amply in the
financial compensation accorded the men—this can
be enough only to care for bare necessities—but
the people of the nation can demonstrate their
gratitude to individual soldiers or sailors by grant-
ing personal attention and services to them during
their leisure time. Thus recreation becomes a
bond between the civilian and the uniformed men,

At the annual business meeting of the Society
of Recreation Workers of America the follow-
ing officers were elected for l94l-l942: Presi-
dent, F. S. Matthewson. Plaintield. N. J.: First
Vice-President. Charles English. Philadelphia.
Pa.: Second Vice-President. R. W. Robertson.
Oakland. Calif.: Secretary. Carl Schmitt.
Media. Pa.: Treasurer. Jessie Schotield. Salt
Lake City. Utah. Members at large—J. W.
Feldman. West Hartford. Conn.; James Gar-
rison. Austin. Texas: Arch Flannery. Battle
Creek. Mich.: Charles Cranford. White Plains.
N. Y.: and Duncan Russell. Boston. Mass.

and an instrument through which recognition can
be granted and morale heightened.

Added respOnsibilities'have been given to recre-
ation agencies in the present emergency. All have
realigned their programs to the defense needs, but
several private agencies have joined in the United
Service Organizations and have been assigned
specific recreational duties in the national plan.
The generous nation-wide support granted to the
United Service Organizations in their recent finan-
cial campaign has been an eloquent demonstration
of the belief which the American people have in
the importance of recreation.

The extensive publicity given to the program of
the United Service Organizations has led some to
conclude that these organizations were being ac—
corded the major task in the national recreation
plan. Their assignment is of special importance
because they will provide
services in new communi-
ties which have sprung up
because of the concentra-
tion of military personnel
in nearby camps or con-
centration of industrial
personnel in certain loca—
tions. Other private recre-
ation enterprises and pub-
lic recreation agencies con-
tinue to fulfill important
responsibilities. The as-
signment of certain respon-
sibilities outside of military and naval reservations
to the United Service Organizations is but one
phase of the total recreation plan. The responsi-
bility for the general p0pulation still remains
largely a responsibility of local government. The
public agencies are rendering, and will continue to
render, the largest service, not only to men in the
armed forces, but also to the population engaged
in defense industries.-

Municipal Recreation Indispensable

Public recreation continues to carry on through-
out the country in hundreds if not thousands of
communities where there is no concentration of
defense personnel, either in the armed services or
in industry. The public agencies will, as hereto-
fore, look largely to local government for financial
support. They will not appeal, generally, to private
citizens for contributions. They will not be in a
position to interpret the vast extent and value of
their work through a nation-wide and highly ex-

l

<.

[N THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY

pensive publicity and public relation program.
Their work is of inestimable value in sustaining
the public morale. It must not be permitted to
diminish in extent or effectiveness.

The importance of recreation in sustaining
morale in a time of national emergency has been
demonstrated by events that have taken place in
England, where the morale of the people has been
put to the supreme test. Programs of “physical
fitness through recreation” have prospered in
England, notwithstanding the emergency. We
read in the public press of leisure-time activities
that continue unabated even in the midst of bomb-
ing attacks. Dancing is not curbed, and goes on
as before. Boys’ clubs petition the authorities for
permission to continue their leagues and tourna-
ments, even when enemy planes are in the air, pre-
ferring to carry on in their recreation activities
than to seek shelter. Sports programs continue un—
abated. In fact, it is reported that there is more
participation.in outdoor athletics than before. If
the emergency becomes more severe in the United

‘ States, we can expect an increase of interest in

y

! 4

 

recreation and an increased desire to participate.

Recreation for the Army and Navy

The responsibility for recreation within the
military and naval reservations has become a
definite public responsibility. The War Depart-
ment and the Navy Department have taken over
this function fully.
This is a change
of the utmost sig-
nificance from the
organization which
prevailed during
World War I. At
that time recrea-
tion within reser-
vations was dele-
gated to private
agencies. Now it is
a full public re-
sponsibility. This
may be regarded
as a recognition of
the value of or-
ganized recreation,
growing out of the
demonstration
made by private
agencies during
the last emergency.

495

N 0 one will question, however, that it is the more
orderly and thorough way to go about the job. It
also leaves to the several private agencies which
formerly served so well within the reservations, a
task to which they are particularly well adapted
and one in which they can render distinguished
service.

Some have been impatient to see more rapid
progress in the organization of recreation in the
military and naval establishments. Members of
our own group have wondered why more of the
skilled organizers and leaders of community rec-
reation were not immediately absorbed in the
military and naval establishments to organize the
recreation program for soldiers and sailors. It is
in the nature of the vast organization for defense
that the recreation program could not be perfected
quickly. The provision of shelter and food and the
training in military skills had to receive first atten-
tion. It has been well that more of those engaged
in the local civilian programs have not been
drafted into the armed services for recreational
duties. It would not be in the national interest if
local communities were left without skilled'lead-
ership in this field of service. That there is insuf-
ficient skilled personnel is evidence of the rela-
tively undeveloped state of recreation as a profes-
sion, the probability of future growth of recrea-
tion as a professional service, and the need more
than ever for the Society of Recreation Workers

 

Courtesy Monroe, Louisiana, Recreation Department

496 IN THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY

of America, organized to deveIOp high standards
of professional preparation for this great social
service.

In observing the development of recreation in
the Army and Navy, I have been impressed time
and again with the parallel between this develop-
ment and that which has taken place in American
schools and colleges since the beginning of the
present century. In a word, the growth of rec-
reation in the Army and Navy recapitulates the
history of physical education and recreation in
American educational institutions. In the latter,
it will be remembered that a few decades ago rec-
reation activities were not a part of the educa-
tional plan but took place off the camptis and were
led by anyone who could be found who had the
time and enthusiasm to undertake the task. In
most instances, the activities were exploited by
promoters for selfish purposes, and injury, rather
than benefit, resulted to the relatively few students
who participated.

So great was this disservice to students at insti-
tutions that measures of student and faculty con-
trol had to be instituted. Gradually there grew a
greater recognition of the contribution which rec-
reation activities could make to the development of
young manhood and womanhood, and eventually
the educational institutions assumed the sponsor—
ship of the recreation program, and finally, in the
most progressive of them, took over full responsi-
bility and made recreation an integral part of the
entire educational program.

Similar steps have taken place in the Army and
Navy. At first, military commanders had no con-
cern for the activities which men engaged in out-
side of reservations, so long as the civil laws were
not violated, and so long as the activities did not
result in unauthorized absence from military duty.
Abuses which resulted called for the institution of
military police and shore patrols, who established
certain controls over misbehavior in leisure-time
activities off the reservation. Now we find the
Army and Navy favoring more positive controls
through Federal and local legislation which they
have recommended, and encouraging the provision
of suitable facilities for the men in uniform in the

communities where they are wont to spend some _

of their leisure hours when free from military duty.

An even more positive recognition of recreation
as a factor in training and in promoting the gen-
eral well-being of the men in uniform is the pro-
vision of extensive facilities for recreation on the
reservations themselves, including programs of ac-

tivities organized in a manner which bears many
similarities to the various intramural and inter-
collegiate programs of athletic and social activities
within American schools and colleges. I
Anyone engaged professionally in recreation
must be greatly encouraged by these developments.
Recreation has now gained recognition and is ac—
corded an important place in the concerns of the .
entire people. One can be proud to be engaged in
so important a work, and can feel that his calling
is of a high professional character, demanding
superior preparation and calling. for adherence to
the highest standards and appreciation of the fin-

est ideals.

Membership Increases

Our society has experienced a healthy. growth
during the past year. Our membership is larger
now than it was a year ago. There has been a
greater degree of individual participation in the
work of the society, particularly in local fields.
We have succeeded in affiliating a number of
societies of local workers as integral units in our
membership. Their activities in the interest of
their professional group are activities of our na-
tional society. Likewise, activities of our national
society are activities of the local groups. This is a
Wholesome development. So vast is the country
that few of our members are able to attend na-
tional meetings. We must depend upon local or-
ganizations if we are to provide opportunities for
participation for many members. The work of
these local groups must be carefully integrated
with the program of the national society. I

Doubtless, our progress would have been greater
during the past year, as a professional society,
were it not for the national emergency. The emer-
gency has called upon many of us for extra tasks
to the extent that we have not been able to devote
the attention that we would have wished to con-
tribute to our society. This handicap will continue
for an unpredictable time. If we are to maintain
the gains so far made as a national professional
group, it will call for increased loyalty from all of
our members. We need to sustain our present
membership and to increase our membership, for
the amount of revenue which we have had from
the annual dues is still too small to attain the goal
which we have set for ourselves.

I wish to commend the society to the member-
ship and to urge that, notwithstanding other de-
mands, the members continue their support and

(Continued on page 525)

The Mountain Comes to Mohomet

ginia, the “Mountain” was

the Community Christmas
tree programs and “Moho-
met” was the public.

The “Mountain” was lo-
cated as near the center of
the sprawling city of \Vheel-
ing as could be selected, the
center of the business district.

IN WHEELING, West Vir-

. The time of the program was

at noon and in the evening. “Mohomet,” while

probably interested in the programs, didn’t come

to the “lVIountain.”At noon working people had to
get to lunch in a hurry and to snatch whatever
time left for shopping, a major item of importance
.in the near-holiday season. In the evening, not
many people wanted to drive the two or three
miles necessary to come to the tree and to then
stand in the cold for thirty or forty-five minutes
to hear a program, especially as the program was
broadcast over local radio stations.

As a result, attendance at the Community
Christmas tree programs was poor, and consider-
ing the work extended in preparing the programs,

By J. E. HOFFMANN
Oglebay Institute

When Mohomet doesn't come
to the Mountain, what’s to
be done? Wheeling solved
this problem by bringing
the Mountain to Mohometl

disappointing. The committee,
representing civic clubs, Ogle-
bay Institute, the city’s Rec—
reation Department and re—
ligious bodies, were reluctant
to attempt a community ob-
servance the following year,
especially since during the
four-year life of the central
celebration attendance and
interest had been steadily
decreasing.
The Chapel on Wheels

Then came the idea of taking the Mountain to
Mohomet. It was decided to have the 1940 cele-
bration closer to the residential sections of
the city of Wheeling. And so the Chapel on
Wheels was constructed. This consisted of a rec-
tangular, peaked-roof house, with church steeple,
erected on the body of a truck. The truck was
loaned by one of the local lumber companies, from
whom materials for the construction of the chapel
were bought.

The cost of construction, exclusive of labor,
which was furnished by the Recreation Department,

 

497

498 THE MOUNTAIN COMES TO MOHOMET

amounted to approximately $50. Plywood and
Masonite were used with 2x4 studding. The
steeple was made removable, carried in the truck,
and was set on the chapel upon arrival at the
destination. This took care of the problem of
hitting telephone wires, trolley lines, viaducts and
similar obstacles.

The chapel housed the essential items for the
program. A reed organ was used, although a
Hammond organ could easily have been carried,
a public address system, and a radio phonograph.
Song books with Christmas carols were also car-
ried by the truck. Electrical outlets were used at
each location, in schools, churches or public build-
ings. Into these outlets were plugged the sound
equipment and floodlights which were hung on
telephone poles, trees or house tops. Storage bat-
teries inside the truck lighted the “stained glass
windows” (done in transparent oils on sign paint-
ers’ muslin), and various red
lights were placed about the
chapel for safety in traffic.

The truck transported all
the equipment. Singers and
speakers who appeared on
the programs were brought
in private cars.

The Programs

The programs were organ-
ized through local commit-
tees. In the beginning the central committee, com-
posed of representatives of Oglebay Institute, the
Recreation Department, Civic Clubs, the Board of
Trade and the Wheeling Ministerial Association,
approached the officers of neighborhood commu-
nity associations and the ministers in each section.
The plan was explained to these individuals and
they were requested to prepare a program for their
neighborhood.

Two weeks were set up for the operation of
the Chapel on Wheels. One night of this
two Week period was assigned to a particular
neighborhood, and the program for that night
placed in the hands of the neighborhood commit-
tee. Stories in the newspapers, announcements
from the radio, pulpit and community club meet-
ings made the public aware of the programs.

A typical evening’s program included: _

Music (chime or carol recordings) from the
truck. These, played while the crowd gathered,
helped to get attention. Everyone within hearing
distance soon knew the Christmas Chapel was there.

The National Recreation Association an-
nounces the publication. about November
fifteenth. of The Christmas Book, a new
publication containing articles on the
various phases of community Christmas
celebrations. such as caroling. Christmas
revelsl a children's party. a Christmas
quiz. decorations. Christmas customs
around the world. and other features.
The booklet. which is attractively illus-
trated. may be secured for fifty cents.

Organ selection

Opening remarks by minister

Community singing of Christmas carols (song
books were used for this)

The recital of Christmas Story

Songs by a choir from a neighborhood church

Brief talk by PTA or community association
representatiVe

Appearance of Santa Claus, who, at some meet—
ings passed out candy, oranges or similar articles

Closing remarks by minister

The radio broadcasts of the Christmas programs
were not discontinued by this plan, but were held
at noon. These noon-day programs, which did not
duplicate the evening programs, were planned by
the central committee. On these programs ap-
peared civic club speakers, school choral groups
and dramatic groups. '

The Chapel on Wheels also made appearances
at orphanages, homes for the -
aged, hospitals, and similar
institutions. These appear-
ances came before the neigh-
borhood programs, and the
choir of the evening arranged
to be present to sing carols.
The Rotary Club made
further use of the Christmas
Chapel in its annual Christ-
mas visit to the orphanages.

Our roving community
Christmas tree programs met last year with the
approval of all. There was greater participation in
program planning, a larger and more varied audi-
ence, increased service for shut-ins, and a grow-
ing intereSt in every section of the city.

Along with Wheeling, many cities will celebrate

Christmas in community-wide Observances which
will reach all parts of the city.

The Christmas season in Memphis, Tennessee,
starts in November with the “Spirit of Christmas”
parade sponsored by the Recreation Department
of the Memphis Park Commission. Playground
children have an important part in this parade each
year, forming the whole of the first division. They
are surpassed in interest only by Santa Claus him—
self who joyously rides on the final float. Memphis
street railway busses are used to transport the
gaily costumed children from the community cen-
ters and back again, and on their return to the

( C antinued on page 524)

Recreation in West Hartford

HE DEPARTMENT of Recre-

ation of the town of West

Hartford, Connecticut, cele-
brated its first birthday on July
29, 1941. The work of the De-
partment since its establishment
is a demonstration of how a lei-
sure-time program can be inte-
grated into the life of a commu-
nity. This integration was
achieved by working closely and
harmoniously with the public and private agencies
that were functioning in the community before the
Department was established.

Through a series of conferences with public and
private agency officials, the staff of the Recreation
Department became familiar with the fields in
which these agencies were working, with the areas
that were not being covered by any agency in the
community, and with the thought of these groups
as to what the function of the Recreation Depart-
ment should be.

Democracy in Action

The establishment of the Department is an ex-
ample of how a community can work along demo-
cratic lines and how action and final decision can
be arrived at in a democracy. The Department
was established after a thorough study had been
made by a citizens’ sub—committee selected from
representatives of practically all civic, educational,
welfare, and lay organizations in the. town. The
study lasted for a period of about two years. Both
local and national experts were consulted as to the
best type of organization and as to whether or not
there was a need for a department of recreation in
the town. After making this careful study, the sub-
committee was fully convinced that West Hart-
ford needed a recreation department and so re-
ported to the full committee. The committee ap-
proved the sub-committee’s report and sent it to
the Town Manager and to the Town Council. The
Town Council took favorable action and approved
the establishment of the Department with a budget
of $5,000.

As a result of its study, the sub-committee rec-
ommended that the Department of Recreation have'
the following main objectives:

By J. W. FELDMAN

Director of Recreation

This is the story of a department
of recreation established on demo-
cratic principles permitting of par-
ticipation by individuals and com-
munity groups in the planning,
organizing and
the program and its activities.

conducting of

.a

1. That the Department should
supervise and promote leisure-time
activities.

2. That no set program of activities
be determined in advance.

3. That activities be organized and
conducted on a democratic basis
by the participants having a voice
in organizing, planning, and con-
ducting the activities.

4. That -by using the democratic pro-

cedure a large number of persons

would serve in different capacities according to their
desires and abilities.

5. That the Department c00perate with private and pub-
lic agencies that are already in the leisure-time field in
West Hartford.

6. That a harmonious working arrangement be arrived
at between the School and Recreation Departments.

7. That activities be sponsored in all sections of the com-
munity for all age groups.

8. That a year-round playground program be established

for children.
9. That a winter sports program be planned.

West Hartford has the Town Manager form of
government. Under this system there are no
boards for the different departments, but an Ad-
visory Board was appointed for the Recreation
Department. Fortunately for the Department of
Recreation, the members of the citizens’ sub-com-
mittee were appointed as its Advisory Board.
They have formulated policies to govern the de-
partment that follow very closely the objectives
outlined.

Organizing Activities

Practically all activities that have been spon-
sored by the Department have been started in re-
sponse to the request of an individual or a group
of individuals of the community. As neither the
Advisory Board nor the director had a set program
of activities that they wished to impose upon the
community, the development of the program along
this line was highly desirable.

Believing that recreation activities offered ideal
situations for the use of the democratic process,
the Board made such procedure one of the cor-
nerstones of the Department. As a result, all ac-
tivities of the Department are organized and con-
ducted along democratic lines.

,The plan followed in organizing an activity is to

499

500 RECREATION IN WEST HARTFORD

invite the person or persons who are interested in
an activity to meet with the director to discuss the
possibilities of developing such an activity in the
town. This first meeting usually consists of only
three or four persons. During the discussion many
phases pertaining to the activity are covered, such
as an estimate of how many persons in the com-
munity might be interested, the names of these
persons, time of meeting, days of meeting, what
facilities would be needed, on what level activities
should be carried, and other details. The time and
the date for the next meeting are set. Persons
present at this meeting will take the names of
persons that they will contact and invite to the
next meeting. It usually takes three or four such
meetings before final plans are made to begin any
activity.

During this process all persons ‘preSent have an
opportunity of contributing to the general plan-
ning from their experience and knowledge. Be-
cause of this the final plans
that are put into effect are
richer and contain greater pos-
sibility of joy and growth for
the members, and the pr0gram
will more nearly meet the needs
and desires of the participants
than it would if set up by one
individual. This planning per-
iod is an excellent method of
showing the wide range of a
subject, and is a means of broadening the think-
ing of the individuals present. It can be used to
make the individuals better acquainted with their
community and what its resources are, since some-
times in the planning it will be necessary to check
the community resources that are available for the
use of the group. It gives the leaders an oppor-
tunity to study the individuals of the group, and
to check their special interests and abilities.

The use of the democratic process gives an op-
portunity to a large number of persons to serve in
different capacities according to their desires and
abilities. The members of the group develop the
personal interest in the activity that is so essential
toward making it successful. They think of the
activity as “our” activity, and of the organization
as “our” Department. Loyalty is developed to both
the activity and to the department which is of
inestimable value.

Through this process many persons for the first
time become aware of the joy and satisfaction of
community service, and it is the means of awaken-

"In times like theseI freedom is most
in our thoughts. and the recreation
movement has one of the greatest con-
tributions to make to human freedom
in enabling people to be themselves
in their free time and yet to fit in
cooperatively with others
neighborhood and in the <3ommunity.'I

Howard Btaucbet

ing community consciousness in some individuals.
As more persons participate in these activities, and
as the scope of the activities widens, many more
persons will become conscious of the different
community services that can be performed. One
can easily see the educational and social signifi-
cance of this fact in reference to the individual and
the community.

Many examples could be cited to illustrate how
this process works, the many ramifications it can
assume, and the effect it has on the community.
Here is one example:

Dances Prove a Successful Point of Departure

One of the first needs and desires of many per-
sons in the community as discovered by the rec-
reation staff was for the provision of social dancing
for high school students. There was no place in
the community for informal, inexpensive dancing.
Those wishing to dance usually went to adjacent
communities or to roadhouses.
The usual procedure was fol-
lowed in planning for this ac-
tivity. A group of students and
adults came together, spend-
ing about four weeks studying
the problem. Sub-committees
consisting of three or four
members were appointed to
study special phases of the
question. These sub-committees
submitted reports which the entire group discussed.
A final decision was reached by action of the whole
group, which decided upon the type of dances to
be given, when they should be given, what orches—
tra should play, and the many other problems per-
taining to conducting a dance.

Though many persons in the community ex-
pressed doubt as to whether these dances would be
successful, they have been popular from the be-
ginning and have met with the approval of both
parents and children. Attendance has increased
steadily. '

Besides providing an opportunity for boys and
girls to dance, these dances have had other effects
on the community. W est Hartford, like many other
communities, has sections that do not know one an-
other well. In fact, some persons felt that they did
not want to know one another. On the dance com-
mittee we have persons from all sections of the
town, and at one of the dance committee meetings

in the

. this feeling was discussed fully and frankly. It was

found to be based largely on misunderstanding of

RECREATION IN WEST HARTFORD 501

one another, and there was no real basis for such
distrust. The frank discussion held cleared the
atmOSphere, members from all sections of the com-
munity are now working harmoniously on this
committee, and there has been a start toward de-
ve10ping an understanding between the groups.

Unfortunately there were cliques in the high
school, and it was rather difficult to get the groups
to mix. Here again the committee has been effec-
tive. Because of their interest in the success of the
dances, the members have mixed, and as the com-
mittee is large and representative it has broken
down these cliques. _A friendly, informal atmos-
phere has been established at the dances that
means a good deal in a democratic society.

The work of the committee has been so success-
.ful that it is considered an honor to be a member
of it. Several teachers, and especially the head of
the Guidance Department, have asked that certain
students be invited to become members of the com-
mittee. These students have been invited and have
served on the committee to the advantage of the
committee, the community, and themselves.

Harmonious working Relationships

This social dance committee is not only an ex-
ample of the democratic process but also of the
close and harmonious working relationship between
the School and Recreation Departments. The
danées are conducted in the high school audi-
torium; several members of the teaching staff have
assisted with them; the art teacher and art students
have made posters and decorations for the dances;
posters have been placed on the high school bul-
letin boards; announcements of these dances are
given in the home rooms and in the assembly, and
the janitorial staff helps set up and take care of
the hall.

This close working relationship between these
two departments is a result of planning and of a
definite effort on the part of
the personnel of these two
departments to arrive at an
understanding of their func-
tions and relationships.

The Superintendent of
Schools, Dr. Lloyd H.
Bugbee, a man with broad
vision concerning recreation
and an understanding of its
significance, has been an
active member of the citi- a
zens’ committee, of the

that they may

"In the West Hartford recreation program
special emphasis has been placed upon
activities for children and youth in order
develop leisure-time in-
terestsl skills. and hobbies that will carry
over into their adult lives. We may look
forward to the time when people living
in our town will have an opportunity to
participate in the activities in which
they are especially interested or in which
they have special training and skills—
program that will give them the ut-
most freedom of choice and control."

special sub—committee, and is now a member of
the Advisory Board of the Department. As a mem-
ber of the Advisory Board he had a voice in the
selection of the Director of Recreation.

When the Director began to function, it was an
easy matter for him to come to an understanding
with the Superintendent of Schools as to the basis
of a harmonious working arrangement between
the two departments. Through Dr. Bugbee a

.series of conferences was arranged where the Di-

rector of Recreation met the school personnel and
had an opportunity to discuss with them what they
thought was the function of the Recreation De-
partment in West Hartford, what they felt were
the recreation needs of the town, and how these
needs could be met. The school personnel gave the
Director many suggestions as to the best way of
attacking the problem in West Hartford. A com-
plete understanding was arrived at as to common
policies and aims, so that provision would be made
for a play—education experience for the boys and
girls that would contribute to their social training,
health, recreational life and civic loyalties. Through
means of this cooperative planning there is no
overlapping of activities and no confusion in the
minds of the children through their being exposed
to many unrelated influences. The play program
was planned to function as an integral part of the
child’s total educational experience. Following
this plan the Department has sponsored activities
that have met the approval of the school authori-
ties and that supplement the activities conducted
in the schools.

From the experience of the school personnel, a
definite need was felt for an after-school fall and
spring playground program for elementary school
children, a Saturday morning gym program for
junior high school boys and girls, and social dances
for senior high school students. The school au-
thorities themselves have an extensive intramural
program for the junior and
senior high school boys and
girls during the school week.

Since the Department’s
budget would not permit the
engaging of persons to con-
duct after-school playground
programs during the spring
and fall, we followed the
suggestion of the head of
the Physical Education De-
partment, Eric N orfeldt, that
seniors of the William Hall

\

502 RECREATION IN W'EST HARTFORD

High School be used as leaders. The heads of the
physical education departments, together with the
principalof the high school, selected these leaders.
This plan gave an opportunity to boys and girls to
experience the joy and satisfaction of being of
service to others and to the community, and of
developing a sense of civic interest.

To give public recognition to these boys and
girls who served on the playground, they were
given engraved certificates of appreciation by the
Department of Recreation. These certificates were
presented at a high school assembly by the chair-
man of the Advisory Board, Orrin S. Spencer.
The presentation was as impressive as the award-
ing of high school diplomas. Dr. Bugbee, Superin—
tendent of Schools, wrote the following to Ray W.
Harriman, principal of the Hall High School, in
reference to the awarding of these certificates:

“It was an inspiration to see nineteen pupils of
Hall High School receive certificates from Mr. Orrin
Spencer for their services as assistants in deveIOping
the recreation programs in this town. I believe it is
one of the highest honors that our school can confer
upon a boy or girl when he or she is asked to take
part in this work. It isn’t necessary to enlarge upon
the educational values that come from such partici-
pation in the community work of this kind.”

One of the prime factors in the successful work-
ing relationship between the two departments has
been the splendid cooperative spirit shown by the
School Department personnel—the Board of Edu-
cation members, and the office, teaching, and jani-
torial staffs, as shown in the following examples:

The Department of Recreation does not spon-
sor any activity that would conflict with those of
the Board of Education’s adult evening school.

The Board of Education allows the Department
of Recreation to use any of the facilities it controls
as long as the use of these facilities does not inter-
fere with the regular school program. The Busi—
ness Manager of the Board of Education has de—
termined the cost of light, heat, and water for dif—
ferent facilities, and has set a figure to cover the
actual cost, which the Department of Recreation
pays. The Recreation Department also pays for
the janitorial services. This summer the School
Department turned over to the Recreation Depart-
ment the issuing of permits for the use of its base-
ball diamonds, and control over the tennis courts
on school grounds. Six of the eight playgrounds
conducted this summer by the Recreation Depart-
ment were on school grounds.

A similar working relationship has been developed

between the Recreation Department and all public
and private agencies working in the town.

The first"step in developing an understanding
with these agencies was taken when the director
met with representatives of all private agencies, the
ministers, and the town and library officials in
West Hartford. There was a frank discussion as
to what they thonght should be the function of the
Department, how best it could serve the town, and
how it could assist local agencies in conducting

their programs. I
I

Conference Results

These conferences had excellent results. The
director became acquainted with the people who
were interested in the leisure-time or allied fields.
He was able to learn their conception of the func-ll
tion of the Department and how it could help them, I
and what their special interests were. With this‘
background, as requests for different activities havel
come to the Department, we have made it our
policy to try to get other groups in the community
to help sponsor activities and cooperate with the
Department in conducting the activities. That:
this has succeeded is shown by the fact that in a
period of seven months from the founding of the
Department, the Recreation Department cooper-
ated with sixteen different agencies or organiza-
tions in the community in conducting some form
of activity. It is also indicated by the statement of I
of a newspaper reporter: “After you mention all
the cooperating agencies that are working on an
activity,'you do not have any room for the story.”

This has been an excellent way of creating good '
will and of attracting people tq the Recreation De-
partment for all manner of assistance. It has also
been the means .of quickly integrating the Depart-
ment in the life of the community.

The response that the Department has received
in the community demonstrates that the people of
\Vest Hartford like to participate in a program
that is based upon the democratic procedure, in
which they have a voice in planning, organizing,
and conducting activities, and that volunteer lead-
ers serving in different capacities can contribute.
materially, at no cost to the town, in the success-
ful operation of many leisure-time activities.
Through these means the beginning of a broad
general program has been deve10ped for all age
groups in the community without over—emphasiz-
ing any one phase of 'the program.

( C antinned on page 526)

 

This Business of Recreation

“ VERY PLAYGROUND and
E community center di—
rector ought to take a
course in store management,
especially you.” Wallace leaned
back grinning, flicked some
imaginary ashes from his cigar
and continued, “Yes, a two
year course would just about

do the trick.”
“Do tell, Wallace,” I smiled, “Please don’t let

me stop you.” .
I said this just as he was about to continue.

Momentarily frustrated, he politely glared at me.
He was just going to carry on again when I broke
in, “A two year course in store management, eh?”

“Yes, that’s right, yes,” he exploded, “May I
continue?”

“Why certainly, Wallace.”

He opened his mouth as if to speak, studied me
suspiciously, and then convinced that I was atten-
tively awaiting his next words said, “Now, Jim,
let’s be perfectly frank. You are a recreation
director and I am a business man. I don’t hesitate
for one minute to tell you I picked business be—
cause I was intensely interested in making money.
Will you tell me why you are in the field of rec-
reation? And, if you don’t mind, leave out the
technical terms.”

“I want to help people to be happy.”

“Not bad at all. How about working on me?”

“I am, I’m letting you talk.”

“Good! Now. We both have one thing in com-
mon, we both work_with people. Tell me, Jim, do
you want to make people happy as much as I want

to make profits?”
“I think so.”

“We both love our work, don’t we!”
It didn’t take much observation on my part to
detect the sarcasm. .It was irritating.

“Wallace, confide in Uncle Jim. What is mak-
ing you so miserable today?”

“Simply this. Will you tell me why in these
modern times the American play center is as anti-
quated as it is? I would say old-fashioned if it
wasn’t for the fact that when it began it was old-
fashioned. I haven’t observed any noticeable
change.”

By MAXWELL H. TASGAL
Superintendent of Recreation
Board of Education
Caldwelll New Jersey

A businessman takes time
off to give a recreation
worker some helpful "tips"

I reflected for a moment.

“It’s all according to what
you mean by ‘change.’ ”

“I mean this. Are you doing
as much as I am to induce peo—
ple to step into your establish-
ment—and once they are in,
how well can you hold their
patronage? When a customer
walks into one of my stores it
is usually with the conviction that he can’t do bet-
ter elsewhere. Does a kid step into your play-

ground because he hasn’t the money to see a

movie?”

I began to feel slightly uneasy.

“In my work we have to figure what percentage
of all prospective customers we are reaching. We
don’t pass up a single prospect. Why, our mailing
list is a business organization in itself! Have you
a mailing list? And what about the newspapers?
Do you understand the fundamentals of good ad-
vertising? Are people aware of the bargains you
are offering—that is, if you are offering bargains?”

Wallace stopped to light his cigar. There was a
humorous gleam in his eye. “The pause that re-
freshes, eh, Uncle Jim ?”

“On the contrary, Wallace, I’m all ears.”

“Well, compare first impressions as regards the
two plants. I never took a course in psychology in
my life but I know how to attract people. If too
many people pass by one of my stores without
looking in, something is Wrong. The passer-by re-
sponds to color, size, movement, contrast and
sound and so we give it to him. We present a
picture of neatness and organization. Did I tell
you about a medium-sized town playground I
passed last week? The play building, a dilapidated
hut, was surrounded by rusty swings and slides.
The ball fields were heavy with grass and unlined,
the tennis and paddle tennis courts were dimly
lined and the nets were rotting. Two or three
notices were waving from a relic of a bulletin board
in front of which stood a playground instructor
wearing a dandy pair of blue trousers with white
stripes down the sides.”

I started to say something, but I never had a
chance.

“Oh, I know that particular playground is not

503

504 THIS BUSINESS OF RECREATION

typical of the several one might find in many good
sized cities and a few towns, but it is there and I
did see it. And do you know what will probably
happen out there P”

“No, what P” I was grateful for the opportunity
allowed me for self-expression. I

“Some enterprising gent will buy that property,
build a swimming pool and charge fifty cents a
head—and what’s more, he’ll probably clean up!”

Wallace was laughing but I wasn’t.

“Do you mind making your criticisms slightly
more constructive P” I suggested.

“\Nhy certainly. Where was I? Oh, yes. Well,
once a customer walks into the store things are
simplified for him. Everything is arranged to meet
his needs. There is an information desk, direction
signs, a checking department, good lighting, seat-
ing space, the aisles are comfortably wide and the
merchandise is on display at his every turn. In
other words he is physically and mentally at ease
and can immediately get into the business of buy-
ing. Do you make the road to your ‘program’ as
easy to reach P”

“No, but —”

“I know. You haven’t the capital—your supe-
riors haven’t the capital. Listen, Jim, did you ever
hear of the word ‘ingenuity’? One of the ten most
underrated words in the language. All big men
can tell you what it means. It’s another word for
capital—only it’s bigger. You can do things with
that word—that is providing you have an imagina-
tion—--a fine imagination.”

“Well, once the physical barriers are overcome,
what then P”

“The physical barriers are never overcome.
They are only rearranged for a while. The trouble
with most directors -is that they make too many
permanent changes. They become traditional.
They need a shot in the arm every so often.”

“Excuse me for living,” I quavered. I had never
seen Wallace so hungry for blood, a recreation
director’s blood. “I don’t mean to be repetitious
but after the physical obstacles have been tempo-
rarily surmounted ”

“To be sure, to be sure. Well, now we’re ready
for the big drive.”

He applied a match to his corpse of a cigar and
settled down to business.

“In order for me to prosper I have to have good
merchandise and I must have a sales staff that can
sell it. All other aspects of the business are per-
haps not quite so important. Correspondingly you
have what you call ‘program’ and ‘leadership.’ It’s
very simple: Sales staff-leadership, merchandise-

 

program. Now I would say that leadership or
personnel is far and away the most important
factor in determining the success of your work. I
know that you are handicapped in that you do not
have the paid workers you need. It is a handicap
you will have to bear for a while. But under pres-
ent conditions, if I were doing your job I would
spend seventy—five per cent of my time choosing,
training, and developing leaders to carry on the
program, and I would garner those leaders from
the play center and the surrounding community.
If you investigated you would probably find a
drama coach, song leader, storyteller, boxing coach,
handcraft expert and any number of specialized
persons who need the recreation of teaching a
group as much if not more than the individuals in I
that group need them. A lot of your trouble lies.
in your willingness to spend most of your time '
doing the technical work, and that is something
you haven’t time for.”

Wallace took his watch out of his vest pocket,
studied it, and put it away. I felt that if I had
asked him the time then, he couldn’t have told me.

“I find that a good salesman is a good student of
human behavior. I can put him in any department
from animated toys to men’s overcoats and he will
still be tops. Yes, he has to know what he is sell-
ing but that is secondary. He has to know people.
Did you hear thatP Know people! You have to
know people. And knowing people you can antici-
pate their actions. I think every director ought to
know what happens to people when they do things
-—ought to know their cravings, their physical and
mental needs. If he knows the techniques of his
profession and also has instinctive and scientific
knowledge of human conduct, he is in'a position
to do humanity a real service. Have  made my-
self clear P”

“Yes, very. By the way, what is the name of the
text book you’ve been reading P”

Wallace smiled. “How many text books are
there on recreation P”

I winced. Fortunately he had no intention of
pursuing the argument.

“No, Jim. Maybe it’s something I picked up
from business and maybe ”

“What, Wallace P”

“Well, maybe I have a unique hobby.”

“You have!”

“Yes, I tear the professions apart and put them
together again.”

He was quiet for at least fifteen seconds. “And
maybe it’s because I have two youngsters of my

H

OWII.

   

 

More Playgrounds

for

New York City

In I934 the total number of play-
grounds in the five boroughs of New
York City was “9. Fifty-eight of
these have been reconstructed and
‘ at the present time there are 435
playgrounds in the park system.

 
   
   
   
   
 
 
     
    
   

HE NEW YORK CITY Department of Parks has
Tcompleted and opened in Crotona Park, the
Bronx, seven new marginal playgrounds, three

reconstructed playgrounds, a children’s farm gar-
den, and two comfort stations. These playgrounds
represent part of a larger program of park recon-
. struction which will be completed in the fall.

Crotona Park is one of the most heavily used
parks in the city. Prior to the initiation of rehabili-
tation work, the pressure of a congested neighbor-
hood resulted in the overflowing of play areas onto
the park lawns, injuring the vegetation, causing
erosion and miniature dust storms, and destroying
the usefulness of the area.

The first major effort to provide much needed
I recreation facilities and to restore the scenic values
of the park was the construction of a swimming
pool in 1936, together with the rehabilitation of
the adjoining unit of park land. In the following
years two new playgrounds were laid out and
various other minor improvements were made.

Plans for the present project, embracing the
complete reconstruction of the remaining sections
of the park, were prepared early in 1940 by the
Department of Parks, and work was started soon
after by the Work Projects Administration. The
main features of this work include the following
items:
Ten additional marginal playgrounds
Reconstruction of the children’s farm gardens
Four baseball diamonds with concrete bleachers
One softball diamond with concrete bleacher
Construction of a wall around the lake

'0 g- —.

 

The New York City Park Department felt
it important to provide a farm garden
in one of its most heavily used parks

A boathouse and concession building on the
lakeside
Thirteen double handball courts
Reconstruction of athletic field on Crotona Park
North
Demolition of many outworn paths and road—
ways and construction of a complete new path
system with curbs, asphaltic pavement, steps,
ramps, benches, lights, fencing
General reconstruction of the park storm drain-
age system
Landscaping of the entire park, including new
topsoil and planting of 2,800 new trees, 18,000
shrubs and lawns
The reconstruction of Crotona Park represents
a major effort in the park improvement field, and
when completed the results will be increasingly
appreciated as the new plant growth becomes es-
tablished and the various recreation facilities at-
tain their full use. All work was performed by

(Continued on page 526)
505

Volunteer Service in a Recreation Program

OLUNTEER leader—
Vship has become an

important factor in

During l940, 878 citizens of Oklahoma
City, serving as volunteers, gave in-
valuable aid to the recreation program

skits, short plays,
choruses, drills, and
readings. Volunteer

the operation of our
Recreation Division, not
only because of the necessity
for securing leaders, but be-
cause of the opportunity it
offers of giving more people
forms of leisure—time activity
which they enjoy. Our ex-
perience in the Recreation Division has been that
many individuals, not personally interested in par-
ticipating in recreation other than commercial, in
serving others as volunteers, gain a new viewpoint
on municipal recreation.

The Municipal Music Association of Oklahoma
City, which has a membership of about a hundred
local citizens who enjoy singing together, meets
every Monday night to rehearse for the many
civic activities to which they contribute their ser-
vices, such as broadcasts, concerts, and appear-
ances on civic programs. This group is under the
direction of a volunteer leader who is a member
of the faculty in the Fine Arts Department of
Oklahoma City University. The accompanist, too,
volunteers her time.

Our municipal drama activities are divided into
three groups—edivisions for children, youth, and
adults. The number of performances which these
groups present each season ranges from eight to
ten. The director of each division and the sub-
directors as well are volunteer leaders. Municipal
drama activities include radio broadcasts, partici—
pation in civic pageants and civic programs, and
the supplying of leadership to church and local
groups who do not have adequate direction in
their drama program. '

Community night shows are held weekly
throughout the year at our two recreation centers,
and throughout the summer
months in all of the parks
and centers. The paid super—
visors on the playground are
responsible for the local talent
features of their programs,
which they build from their
dramatic clubs. Such enter-
tainment is presented as dance

506

By CATHERINE SIMPSON

Music and Drama Director
Recreation Divisionl Park Department

Oklahoma City. Oklahoma

"Organizing volunteers means all of
these things—a goal worth enlisting
for; an element of high 'adventure. of
sentiment, of service; a defined task
for each worker: a task manageable in
size. not overwhelming to the point
of discouragement; training in the iob
assigned; a sense of accomplishment. a
service rendered."-—Robett E. Bondy.

schools of the dance,
accordion groups, drill
teams, bands, and drama
schools compose the rest of
the program.

The volunteer leaders oc-
cupy all of the key positions
in the presentation of our
annual Christmas and Easter pageants. These in-
clude directors of the pageant proper, orchestra,
chorus groups, union stage men, public address_
men, and costumers. The only paid member of
the staff is the coordinating director from the.
Park Department. The Christmas pageant cast is
made 11p of some 800 local people and is presented
before an audience of 7,000. There are 200 peo-
ple in the cast of the Easter pageant which is
witnessed by 18,000 people.

In addition to the volunteers in the field of
sports and games, swimming, music, drama, hand-
craft, and nature study who volunteer their time
to carry on a specific part of the program at the
various parks and in the recreation centers, there
are many others who assist with public address
systems for shows, with square dances, and with
the Christmas music at the Civic Center nativity
scenes. Local non-union hillbilly bands play for:
our square dances.

Such annual events as the birdhouse exhibition,
the Hallowe’en festival, hobby show, and Twelfth
night celebration are all worked out with volunteer
leadership under the guidance of the Recreation
Division of the Park Department. Each year th
playground season is opened with a playground
recreation festival sponsored by the Park Depart-
ment, the Sports and Recreation Division of the
Chamber of Commerce, and the WPA Recrea-
tion Project. Besides the ac-
tivities in the parks proper,
there are such free exhibi-
tions and activities as horse
shows, boat races, bicycle
races, checkers, croquet, and
domino tournaments, exhibi-
tions of tennis, trap shooting,

(Continued on page 526)

More About Recreation for Men in Uniform

A July 4th Street Celebration
' By R. D. EVANS

Superintendent of Recreation
Fort Worth, Texas

   
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   

ORTY THOUSAND people attended Fort
Worth’s municipally sponsored street
dance on July 4th, which was preceded by

three entertainment programs and a dance

concert.
' At 8 P. M. the Moslah Temple Shrine Band

'opened the program with a concert, and just
one hour later John E. Farrell, Mayor of West-
over Hills and chairman of the County United
Service Organization, introduced Mayor I. N.
| McCrary who welcomed the visiting
soldiers to Forth 'Worth. The Mayor
= closed his address by launching into
i that passage of “America,” “I love thy
' rocks and rills, thy woods and templed
l hills . . .,” with such vocal gusto that
the crowd joined in the singing. Mayor
Farrell then introduced Lieutenant
Colonel Austin F. Anderson, stationed
at Camp Leonard Wood, Missouri, who re—
sponded for the soldiers to the Mayor’s wel-
come. The Fort Worth WPA orchestra struck
up the “Beer Barrel Polka,” and throngs of
soldiers advanced to the platform to meet a
score of hostesses.

Three entertainment performances by pro-
fessional, camp, and amateur talent followed
immediately, each a distinct program, and all
presented simultaneously on the three stages.

The professional show included a line dance,
a noted boogie-woogie pianist, a magician, a
blues singer, and other novelty dance acts. All
services for the performance were free.

The Junior Chamber of Commerce chorus
opened the program on the center stage and
was followed by an accordian sextet. An artist
singer from one of the radio stations sang old
World War Songs. Then entertainers from
Camp Wolters, Mineral Wells, Texas, occupied
. the stage. The voiCe of one of the soldiers

      
 

, UNITED
r, sures

who sang was recorded in the production,
“Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.” A pro—
fessional accordionist and arranger and a pro-
fessional mimic also appeared. "

The amateur show was presented by mem-
bers of the Recreation Department’s activity
classes. The program consisted of an exhibi-
tion of dances, a pantomime in song, dance,
and music of a bugler drafted in the army and
a tumbling and teeter board act. A square
dance team gave a demonstration of the native
Western dance, and then during the dance

members mingled with the crowd, teaching
soldiers the steps.

Four orchestras played for the dance. There
was one section for jitterbugging and other
modern dancing; one for round dancing; and
another for square dancing and old-
fashioned dancing. ,

The Carnival was held on Fort
Worth’s Main Street between Eighth
and Fifth which was roped off and
barricaded. The street became so con—
gested that it took pedestrians 'iifteen
minutes to make their way the dis-

tance of a single block through crowds
of spectators.

R. D. Evans, Superintendent of the Recrea-
tion Department, was chairman of the mam-
moth celebration, which was directed by the
City Recreation Department in cooperation
with U. S. 0., the City of Fort Worth, and
Chamber of Commerce. He appointed the
following committees to assist him: Speakers’
Stand; Professional Entertainment; Amateur
Entertainment Stand; Police; Soldiers; Deco-
rations; Properties; and Hostess and Girls.

Approximately 1,000 girls registered as
dancing partners for the visiting soldiers.
Groups of girls from sororities, civic clubs,
schools, colleges and business concerns were
on hand to dance with the boys, and the dance
was as well chaperoned as a home social. The
reception and hostess committee saw to it that
no girl or soldier had to wander around alone
in the crowd. The girls met at posts stationed
in the hotels near the location of the dance.

507

508 MORE ABOUT RECREATION FOR MEN IN UNIFORM

 

They were introduced to
soldiers here and chatted
until time for the celebra-
tion. The hostesses wore
arm bands, and the girls wore their names
printed on cards. The city police, the State
Highway Department, and military police from
Camps Wolters, Bowie, and Barkeley handled
the traffic and maintained order at the dance.

Two manufacturers of trailers contributed
the large trailers used in erecting the three
stages which were located on the center side
of the three blocks. Loudspeaking equipment
was donated for each stage, and special light—
ing effects were erected by the local electric
service company. The Fire Department
washed the streets at 6 o’clock in preparation
for the dance. Appropriate decorations on the

stages and along the streets added to the
festive spirit which prevailed.

The first maior event sponsored by
the City of Fort Worth for soldiers
at neighboring camps was a street
carnival and dance held on July 4th

The Recreation Depart-
ment is planning a second
big carnival in the form of a
community circus for the
soldiers to be held August 15th. The circus
will be augmented by a dance and music festi-
val and will be held at Farrnington Field
which has a seating capacity of 20,000 people.

There are four training camps near Fort

Worth.

Albuquerque Entertains the
Service Men

IN ALBUQUERQUE, New Mexico, the Mayor ha
appointed an Advisory Recreation Com-
mittee.to have general charge of the recrea
tion of the men from near-by air base head—
quarters. Associated with this committee is

 
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
    
  
   
  
   
 
 

cal coordinator and a general program com-
ittee composed of the chairman of each
bcommittee plus an official delegate from
SO, N YA, VVPA, the city playgrounds and
mmunity centers, and the air base.

; The subcommittees which are at work con-
st of the following:

Recreation. This committee organizes and
romotes music, dramatics, and special hobby
roups within community and post; develops
iteria for conducting social activities; trains
adership for handling social activities ; assists
ll urches in conducting their programs for
ldiers; arranges for dance partners and
! aperones; and serves as a clearing house in
e scheduling of all activities and headquarters
r‘the talent bureau.

. Facilities and Equipment. It is the responsi-
ility of this committee to secure a soldiers’
owntown center with equipment; to arrange
r facilities for special events such as soldiers’
,ays at commercial entertainment places——
owling alleys, skating rinks, and the like; and
a plan for music boxes and concessions.
Church Activities. This committee encourages
'ttendance at church services, assists with
I ecial church features, and aids the chaplain
t the post in arranging programs.

Hospitality and Public Information. The object
f this committee is to serve as a clearing
ouse for information, both for the public and
e air base. The committee having in mind
e needs of out-of—town guests, compiles lists
If lodging houses, eating places, and entertain-
' ent features; arranges sight—seeing trips and
ansportation ; welcomes new units to the air
ase; assists in making day rooms and recrea—
on halls at the base attractive and cheerful;
isits the sick and hospitalized; gathers maga-
nes, books, and newspapers; and plans holi-
ay celebrations. The committee also keeps a
crapbook, prepares and places signs and
ulletins, and issues education-recreation cards,
nd devises record slips on which each group

eports its particular activity to the Central
0mmittee.

Finance. It is the duty of this committee to
Ian drives for funds and to have charge of
en distribution; to advise on such matters

5 insurance, public liabilities, and legal re-
ponsibilities.

   
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  

 

MORE ABOUT RECREATION FOR MEN IN UNIFORM 509

a“

At the Point Place Community
Center

HE POINT PLACE Community Center in Toledo,

Ohio, was formerly a high school building.
Abandoned by the Board of Education, it was
renovated and put into condition by WPA, and is
now being used as a training school for WPA
recreation leaders and also for community pur-
poses. Its Sponsors are the Toledo Recreation De-
partment and the Point Place Community Coun-
cil. In addition to the office space and classrooms
provided, the building is equipped with a gym-
nasium and stage.

Recently the United States Naval Department
established a naval reserve training school at Bay
View Park for about eight hundred men. The
Point Place Community Council, in c00peration

with the WPA Recreation Project of which James
R. Inman is District Supervisor, has organized a

recreation program for the men stationed at the
( C ontinucd on page 529)

When refreshments were served at the
opening dance at the Community Center

 

Seattle Swingsters

WING AND RHYTHM have taken
on a new meaning in Seattle,
Washington, now that Junior

Golf has become a recognized part
of the recreation program. More than a thousand
young swingsters are toting their clubs along the
city fairways and driving away with all the en-
thusiasm of their fathers. And what’s more, they’re
learning the fundamentals from the best of the
city’s professionals.

Starting from scratch in the spring of 1940,
park and school leaders set Up. a program which
now includes 1,426 students from Seattle’s nine
high schools and a teaching staff of fourteen pro-
fessionals. A six-point plan was originally agreed
upon and has been the basis for the program:

1. The Junior Golf Program must have interest and

appeal.
2. Cooperation of all agencies involved is needed.

3. Supervision is essential in every phase.

4. When the program is set up, there must be provi-
sion for continued opportunity to develop.

5. The cost for participation must lbe kept low.

6. Students will be allowed to register for the classes
only on their own volition.

When first discussed, the plan met with enthu-
siasm from the high school authorities, although
certain obstacles had to be overcome to assure final
acceptance. The initial and operating costs were
reduced to a minimum to insure student participa-
tion, because the school system had no available
funds for that purpose. Officials of the Park
Board also cooperated and offered the services of
the city golf manager in carrying out the program.

All the golf professionals within the metropoli-
tan area were invited to a meeting at the Wash-
ington Athletic Club where the plan was outlined
to them. Golf was to be introduced into the phy-
sical education schedule if these men would co-
operate. A teaching plan was discussed and every
professional offered his services in coaching the
students. A class schedule was arranged at the
meeting and assignments were made at the school
nearest each professional’s club.

The next problem was to secure used clubs—
hundreds of them. Only a city-wide campaign
through the golf clubs could bring this need before
the club-swinging public. Leaders went to work,
posters and publicity material were furnished by

510

By T. O. HOAGLAND

Golf Manager
SeaHle Park Department

   
 
 
   
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
   

l
l
l
l
2

the National Golf Foundation,
. the slogan “You can’t take ’em

you” soon became the by-Wor

every course.

A medal play tournament on full handicap
arranged at each of the city’s fifteen golf club
an effort to persuade Seattle golfers to part
their old clubs. The entrance fee~was one or i
used. clubs or $1.00. A special rule, taken from
Inter-city Sweepstakes Association, stated tha t
scores posted by four or more strokes less 1 r
the par of the respective course would go in l

i
4

l
l

final play-off to determine the winner.

A mimeographed sheet outlining the condit i
of play was given to each contestant so tha
misunderstandings resulted. The pros handle
details, such as posting scores and accepting
tries, and the Seattle Golf Association spons :
the entire tournament.

\Vooden cups became the coveted prizes for I
low net score in both men’s and women’s divis n
at each course, private, semi-private, and mu -
pal. Wood for the cups was donated by a
lumber company and the boys in the manual t
ing departments turned the blocks of gum
into loving cups.

Nearly 800 clubs for use in the junior pro
tion were donated by players in the three \ '
competition. Twenty-one caddy bags and $3.
cash were also collected from the adult pla
Each club that came. into the pro shop was cle 'r
and repaired before being released to the s I
district warehouse where distribution was
on a ration basis. Wooden racks, floor mats :
cotton balls were furnished by the physical t
cation department and by the middle of Sep e
her the first classes were under way.

The physical education instructor at each 541
handles the class organization'by calling roll .
arranges Whatever facilities are needed by't
professional. The golf chart series furnished
the National Golf Foundation have proved
valuable.

Enthusiasm was evident from the beginni
and it is often a question as to whether the p
or the youngsters get the more thrill from th
classes. The attitude of the coaches has been v

(Continued on page 529) 

“ urora Holds lts Annual Doll Show

T IS QUITE USUAL to see “hold-out” groups at
baseball games, boxing shows and dramatic
performances, but it may be surprising to learn

at in Aurora, Illinois, the longest hold-out crowd

. accredited to a doll show.

Early in each December on the last day of the

011 show, a Sunday afternoon, for nearly two
ours people are lined up through the hall of the
uilding and for nearly a block down the street.
here are a number of reasons which account for
e amazing popularity of this show which people
ay ten cents apiece to see.

The people of Aurora, in the first place, do not
me to the show to see rare, beautiful, or expen—
've dolls, for the dolls are all the same and are
urchased at a wholesale cost of twenty—five cents
ch. The interesting thing to the public is that
ach show has a theme, and the various groups
king part dress the dolls and furnish standard
'ze booths depicting some phase of the theme. In
938 the theme was “From a Fairy Tale.” Many
iry tale characters were displayed and there was

wealth of material from twenty-nine exhibitors.
n 1939 the theme was “From the Pages of His-
ry,” and the exhibitors increased to sixty—three.
ast year’s theme was “From the Story Books of
.ittle Children,” and a maximum number of
venty-six groups took part in the project.

Another reason for the popularity of the Aurora
011 show is the ticket sales campaign, the pro—
eeds of which are allotted to the organizations
aOticipating who sell the tickets purchased at cost.
be cash admissions paid at the door are kept by
0 Recreation De-
artment to cover the
xpense of the proj—
ct. Last year, with
eventy-six partici-
ating groups, there

The annual doll show
in Aurora is always
a winter event. and
a very popular one!

 

By RUSSELL PERRY

Playground and Recreation Department
Aurora' Illinois

were more than eight hundred people selling
tickets.

Each organization taking part receives a copy
of the mimeographed rules which are in force.
Contacts are made with the groups by the Depart—
ment, and on their agreement to take part each
group decides the title of its booth, the number of
dolls needed, and the number of tickets desired.
Organizations interested in the program include
garden clubs, women’s clubs, Parent—Teacher
groups, Sunday school classes, Girl Scout troops,
Girl Reserves, and school groups.

Rules of the Contest

Among the rules in force are the following:
Classifications for competition shall be:

- Junior division———elementary school age groups
Intermediate division—high school age groups
Senior division—out-of—school age groups

Judging is based on the following points: (I)
originality;  accuracy of portrayal; (3) stress—
ing of detail.

The scenery and clothing must be made by girls
within the age groups.

There shall be no fewer than three dolls in each
scene. As many more may be used as is desired. “a

Scenery for booths must fit into the following

(Continued on page 525)

ms: frwwm an“ a ‘ ~ .
a. ’ .- __ -

Colored Citizens Present Music Festivals

HE JUNE festival chorus

has become a well estab-

lished part of the musical
life of Cincinnati, Ohio. About
three hundred Negro citizens
took part in the concert held at
Eden Park on Sunday evening, June 8, 1941. The
chorus had been rehearsing since the hrst of Octo-
ber under the local director, Dr. Artie Matthews.
Dr. Clarence Cameron White of the staff of the
National Recreation Association was in charge of
the final rehearsals and directed at the concert.
About live thousand people attended the concert, a
larger number than at any previous concert.

The June Festival Association, which sponsors
the chorus, is made up of some of Cincinnati’s
most musically-minded citizens. Harry Glore,
Supervisor of Music for the Cincinnati Public
Recreation Commission, serves as secretary of the
Association.

Careful publicity preceded the music festival.
Handbills and placards con-
taining the photographs of the

Music festivals are popular
events in Cincinnati, Ohio,
and New Haven,Connecticut

About 300 individuals took part this

conductor and guest soloists
and information about the fes-
tival were distributed at
churches and other centers.
Through the cooperation of a
number of schools, the hand.-
bills were sent in to homes through the children
of the upper grades. Speakers were assigned to
present the June festival to the congregations of
twenty-one of the leading Negro churches, an
addresses were made before a number of meetings.
The Cincinnati Street Car Company carried th
announcement of the festival on the public even -
calendar in the street cars for a week or ten day
prior to the concert. The Superintendent of School
included an endorsement of the festival in hi
weekly bulletin to all of the public schools, an
letters sent to approximately 275 ministers by th
Council of Churches also gave strong endorse
ment of the festival. Announcements were car-
ried over the radio as well.

On July 31, 1941, the City

(Continued on page 529)

year in Cincinnati's music festival

 

512

Courtesy Cincinnati Public Recreation Commissi-

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

‘ Cap’n Bill's Column

 
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
 

. ORN NATURALIST. George E. Moore is
' Chief Naturalist for the Missouri State Park
= ard and is stationed at Meramec State Park, Sul-
an. For twenty-seven years Naturalist Moore
rked in a creamery. His Boy Scouts awakened
1 with their.ever-searching nature questions. For
I ~ 'en years he found himself publishing a nature
f g per, “Outdoors,” for the Lebanon Nature Club.
5 hobby next had him as editor of the “Blue-
d” for the Audubon Society of Missouri. Today
‘- is ranking park naturalist because Boy Scouts
questions. His column, “A Touch of Nature,”
1. pears regularly for the rural St. Louis Post
,, l spate/2.. Folks who risk nature-hobbying better
1 k out. It might lead to a profession—an out-
» or one at that. He says that he gets but a frac-
t n of his former salary but that other satisfac—
t ns are priceless.

Conservation. Teachers Manual — No. I. In-
. t duction and Background; No. 2. Soils and Soil
I nservation; No. 3. Conservation of Water Re—
ces. Prepared under the direction of educators,
i tists, and conservationists. Issued by Missouri
servation Commission, Jefferson City.

restry. “Michigan 4-H Forest Ranger Club,”
year project, Michigan State College, Exten-
Division, East Lansing. A forest conserva—
program.

and Canyon. “West Rim Drive,” 14 pp. il-
ted Guide Leafiet No. 3. Also “Desert View
and Canyon Village,” 12! pp. Guide Leafiet
2. National Park

dians of the United
3,” Clark .VVissler,
I or of Anthropology,
rican Museum of
ral History. Double—
'9 oran and Company,
9- $375-

5onal Park Ranger
. alist Service. The
1 that this program
0t cut out in 1940
. due to the millions
I \ 0 had profited by the

l
A

town.

H

 

'ce A MESSAGE FROM CAP'N BILL

Nature—Grams. Let's do something about them!
There are different types of techniques for deal-
ing with nature-grams. with the staff or in a cur-
rent events period. The most valuable are:
(I) A discussion meeting on what shall we do
first' secondI etc.' in our town. (2) A news sur-
vey—a discussion of what is going on in our
(Perhaps you will discover nature-grams
for this column.) (3) Background exploration. Re-
view nature-grams and find similar situations in
the remote past. (4) Professor Quiz. (5) Debate.
(6) Panel discussion. Have a prearranged topic
for a round table discussion. (7) Drama—A kind
of a legislative assembly or Cabinet meeting.
or drama about the proposed trailside museum.

of Nature-Grams

nature service. A public nature guide is the direct
representative of the federal, state, or civic gov-
ernment. If the people see the benefits of a pro-
gram they will support it. Making friends is im-
portant.

Natural Resources. The Inter—American ‘Con-
vention on Nature Protection and Wildlife Preser-
vation has been ratified by the Senate. The treaty
calls for the establishment and extension of na-
tional parks and nature areas which will preserve
natural wonders, exceptional scenery, and out-
standing scientific places. Interuse of these parks
of seventeen American republics will result in im-
proved hemisphere relations and mutual good will.

Nature Knights ‘is a system of activities and
awards for any organized youth group in Missouri
interested in a conservation program. A Walt
Disney pledge card in colors and Conservation
Bulletins Numbers 10 and 11 describe the plan in
detail. Progressive educators will recognize good
deeds as of more value than artificial rewards. For
information write Conservation Commission, Jef-
ferson City, Missouri.

Nature Stories for the Bookshelf. Seeds and
Seed Travels, Insects, Rocks, are some of the list
by Bertha Morris Parker of the Laboratory School
of Chicago University. Colored illustrations. Row,
Peterson, publishers, Evanston, Illinois. $.25 each.

Pueblo Indians. Bandelier National Monument,
New Mexico, has interpretation service in which
competent ranger—archeologists accompany visitors

‘ to the various ruins. No
one is allowed to enter
the ruins unless accom-
panied by a guide. The
museum has cases ar-
ranged to tell the logical
story of the prehistoric
Indians of the area, and
the ethnology of the re-
gions is related at the eve-
ning campfire by mem—
bers of the staff.

Roadside Development
is more than cutting with
a bush scythe to grow an

513

514 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

annual crop of stubble and rank sprouts. Native
shrubs are the most desirable. Bayberry, sweet
fern, field junipers, sumac, and huckleberry are
ideal for dry sterile soil. Mountain laurel and
flowering dogwood are worthy. Sweet pepper-
bush, Spicebush, and black alder are well suited to
grace moist places. 0

Rose Society. A member of a certain Rose So-
ciety recently said emphatically: “I wish that the
speaker had spoken in English!”

“Science Calls to Youth,” a guide to career-
planning in the sciences, Raymond F. Yates. D.
Appleton-Century, New York. 205 pp., illus. $2.

Science Centers provide a place in which science
clubs may gather. ‘Middletown, New York, has
science fairs; Rochester, New York, broadcasts;
and a Massachusetts manufacturer offers his lab-
oratories. For further information on these groups
write to Henry Platt, director of the Science Clubs
of America, The American Institute, 310 Fifth
Avenue, New York City.

Science Clubs of America.
Affiliation by a $2.00 fee for
twenty members brings valu-
able materials and 128 page
Science Handbook for 1942.
For information write Science
Service, 1719 N. Street, N.
W., Washington, D. C.

Scoutcainp. Philturn, a
Rocky Mountain Scoutcamp,
a wilderness reservation, was presented to the Boy
Scouts by \Vaite Phillips. Located near Cimarron,
New Mexico, it offers pack trips, trail making,
wildlife studies, and other techniques of outdoor
living.

Snakes. The Ross Allen Snake Farm, Silver
Springs, Florida, was started by an amateur col-
lector. Folks commenced to come and see the
snake man. He now charges 35 cents admission
and has hundreds of visitors. He has a laboratory
display, a great variety of live snakes in pits, takes
visitors on trips, and puts on a snake show and

lecture in the afternoon which includes the milking
of a rattlesnake.

Town Forests. Fifteen hundred communities in
the United States own forests ranging from a few
acres to 60,000 acres. Seattle boasts a unit of
67,000 acres. Sixteen states have laws permitting
communities to operate forests for timber growing.
Recreation is important in these town forests.

NOVEMBER

'. . . When the leaves have fallen and
before the Ice-king yet is here. there
come for a little while the calm dreamy
days when the Great Spirit is smoking
His pipe, and the smoke is on the land.
The Redmen call them the smoking days.
but we call it Indian Summer."

E cnest Seton Thompson

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
      
   
       
  
    
    
   
   
    
  
  
  
 
   
  

Trees. “A Guide to the Trees” by Dr. Carl
C. Curtis, professor of botany at Columbia U
versity, for more than a quarter of a century, 1
the trees theinselves, has stood the test of ti
The eighth printing has just appeared for $I.
Greenberg: Publisher, New York. Illustra
simple, and pocket size makes it practical for
average man forest bound.

Trumpeter Swan. From a census count of
in 1934 to a total of 211 in 1941, this practi .
extinct bird shows signs of holding its own, .
cording to the Fish and Wild Life Service.

PVeather Service. How about a weather cl *.
which will serve the recreation department? .
only picnickers would benefit. The first frost, u 
muddiest, the windiest, the sunniest, the snowi
the hottest times, and so on, each has its c
sports. There’s a correlation. Following
planets in December_skies, kites, weather va
war-and—weather stories,.sun spots, looking at 'a

weather weeks ahead, are s
I gestive items. The Weat ‘

l

2
l

  

Bureau lends volunteer u
server’s apparatus.

Wild Life. The “In
Naturalist, for the Prese
tion of Our Wild Life” i
publication of the Junior '
reation Museum, San Fr
cisco Recreation Departm
Cover design is by a fourt a
year old girl, and editors of similar age tell ab
model airplanes, radium, silkworms, and sea aq -
riums. It is suggested that there be an excha _
of these excellent Junior Publications. Wa I
Nature-Grams for announcements.

   

Wilderness Values. Aldo Leopold, professor'p
biology at the University of Wisconsin, is kee
observation and vitriolic in expression. “Wil
ness shrinks as motorized recreation expa
Most tourists have no gadget inhibitions. Wit 5
now the rubber boat for fishing the last vi °
trout hole. In the same category are the si
boarded trail, the synthetic fireplace, the pi
spring. Defense of the wilderness was once co I
ceived to be defense against frontal attack frb .
road builders and promoters of recreational cipher
age. We ought to have that aptitude for illusio
which enables small boys to fish in washttb
Quality of participation, as well as quantity, i
important.”

Leisure Time and Physical Education

N FEBRUARY of this year ' By .JAMES  IAMS
‘ the Physical Education Men 5 Physmal Education Department
Antioch College

 

The prime importance of
the data collected is to give

Department of Antioch the Department a valid basis

ollege sent a short question- for evaluating its work and to
ire to all Antiochians graduating since 1920. see whether it is adequately meeting the after-col-
‘ he purposes of the questionnaire were: lege needs of Antioch students.

l (I) To find out what activities are preferred Some 800 graduates were interrogated and 437

. by our graduates for their Ieisure_time use replied, making the percentage of returns roughly
l 54. Of these replies, 267 were from men and 172

(2) To determine how the PhYSical educatiofl from women. The findings of this study proved
program in college has affected their very interesting. The following table shows the

Present Chome eleven most popular post-college activities in order

A

' ) To elicit su estions and criticisms re— of reference, and also the amount of colle e in-
‘3 88 P . c g
garding our program. struction received in those activ1t1es:

--—---

MEN WOMEN COMPOSITE OF MEN AND WOMEN

Received In-
structions or
Coaching in

 
 
  

Activities Regularly. While in .

'1 ‘_ ged in (Post-College) College Activities Instruction Activities Instruction
vimming 33.4% 2.6% Swimming 33.7% 9.9% Swimming 34.0% 5.1%
ennis 22.2% 33.9% Gardening 20.4% 2.3% Tennis 19.4% 302%
ridge 21.9% 4.2% Picnicking 20.4% 1.7% Bridge 19.0% 3.0%
olf 20.0% 32.0% Hiking 17.4% 9.9% Gardening 18.5% , 1.6%
iking 18.1% 1.5% Tennis 15.1% 25 % Hiking 17.8% 5.3%
. ardening 17.4% 1.1% Bridge 15.1% 1.2% Golf 16.0% 36.6%
Music 13.6% 12.4% Handcrafts 14.5% 2.9% Music 13.0% 135%
' Skating 12.4% 0 % Music 12.4% 15.1% Picnicking 12.6% 2.3%
ocial Dancing 12.1% 5.7% Bicycling 10.5% 7.0% Social Dancing 11.4% 6.2%
' owling 11.7% 1.1% Social Dancing 10.5% 7.0% Skating 10.9% 0 %
otography 11.3 % 1.1% Golf 9.9% 43.6% Bowling 10.5% 4.6%

 

I c
‘ Ifable No. 2 shows the ten activities in which graduates received the most instruction or coaching whlle

ey were in college, and—in comparison—how often these activities were regularly engaged in after
ollege.

 

   

MEN ‘ WOMEN COMPOSITE OF MEN AND WOMEN

Participated Participated Participated

Instruction in Regularly Instruction in Regularly Instruction in Regularly
Received in After Received in After Received in After
College College College College College College

. Touch Football 57.4% 2.3% Basketball 73.3% 2.3% Basketball 61.2% 3.4%
Volleyball 55.1% 4.9% Field Hockey 72.8% 0.6% Volleyball 58.0% 3.4%
Basketball 53.2% 4.2% Volleyball 62.3% 1.2% Softball 40.5% 4.4%

' Softball . 51.0% 6.4% Archery 45.4% 3.5% Gymnastics 37.6% 2.08%
Gymnastics . 37.0% 2.3% Golf ' 43.6% 9.9% Golf 36.6% 16.0%
Soccer 36.6% 0.4% Gymnastics 40.7% 2.3% Touch Football 34.9% 1.4%
Handball 34.7% 7.2% Softball 37.2% 1.2% Field Hockey 31.4% 0.2%
Tennis 33.9% 22.2% Badminton 27.9% 8.7% Baseball . 31.2% 1.1%
Boxmg - 32.6% .01% Tennis 25.0% 15.1% Tennis 30.2% 19.4%
Golf 32.0% 20.0% Track 20.3% .00 Track 27.1% .00

These data show that instruction in team sports favor. Team sports provide the chief medium for
as been emphasized heavily, in most cases, and college athletic competition. Participation in such
hat graduates have used this instruction to a very sports helps to' develop students socially, physi-
1mith degree after college. This result was ex- cally, and mentally. It is in this area that boys and
ected, and there is a' good deal of argument in its girls really play together and achieve together. At

515

516 LEISURE TIME AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Antioch, over 90% of the student body engages in
some form of team sports in the intramural pro-
gram, as contrasted to the limited number playing
- team sports in most colleges. In general, although
team sports are used only seldom after college,
they play a very vital part in college life.

The Department recognizes the significance of
these seemingly lopsided facts. Of the three years
required in physical education, only one is devoted
to team sports. The remaining two years are de-
voted to individual sports. Few students coming
to Antioch have ever before received any formal
instruction or coaching in these team Sports, as
most high schools provide coaching and instruction
only to those students on varsity squads.

Even instruction in individual sports does not
entirely solve the problem for students after col-
lege. At that time, lack of facilities and the ex-
pense of certain sports may well curtail their use.
Tennis, golf, and badminton are the most popular
individual sports at Antioch today. All of these,
however, are notably expensive both in equipment
and facilities. Also, there is a factor of skill. One
may desire to play tennis or golf and be able to
afford it, but still he may resist the urge because
he does not play well enough. For that reason, it
may be that the Department should undertake
more vigorously to have students reach a higher
degree of skill in one or two sports before leaving
college. There are many arguments for and against
this thesis. We tend to leave it more or less up to
the student.

It is interesting to note at this point the activi-
ties in which graduates wish now that they had
received more instruction while they were in col-
lege. In order of preference they are:

MEN WOMEN
Swimming . . . . . . .31.7% Swimming . . . . . .41.3%

Golf I . . . . . . . . . . . . .31.3% Tennis . . . . . . . . . .33.2%

Tennis . . . . . . . . . 29.8% Golf . . . . . . . . . . . 29.8%

Photography . . . . 18.1% Riding . . . . . . . . . 29.1%

Badminton . . . . . . 16.6% Handcrafts . . . . . 26.8%

Bowling . . . . . . . . . 15.1% Bowling . . . . . . . . 22.5%

Music . . . . . . . . . . . 13.6% Photography . . . . 20.9%

Riding . . . . . . . . . . . 132% Music . . . . . . . . . . 20.4%
Soc1al Dancing. . .11.3% Winter Sports. . . .19.8%
Handball . . . . . . . . 10.9% Badminton . . . . . . .19.3%

In answer to these data, it is to be said that in-
struction is now being offered by the. Department
in all of these activities, if it is at all possible. Our
facilities for swimming, riding, and winter sports
are very limited. We are leaving music, hand-

crafts, and photography up to the various hobby
organizations.

 
   
   
        
   
  
  
 

Another phase of recreation which is signilic
is the actiyities in which men and women may a
gage regularly with members of the opposite s I
Antioch graduates have had this experience in .
following activities in order of preference:

MEN ' WOMEN

Social Dancing. . .51.0% Social Dancing. . .4830 '1

   
 
  
  
  
  
 

Bridge ........ ..48.9% swimming ..... . .3370 ::
Swimming . . . . . . .41.2% Picnicking . . . . . . .34.70

Picnicking . . . . . . . 32.8% Hiking . . . . . . . . . .3020

Hiking . . . . . . . . . 26.4% Ping-pong . . . . . . 21.50

Ping-pong . . . . . . 23.0% Tennis . . . . . . . . . .186”

Tennis . . . . . . . . . . 19.3% Bicycling . . . . . . . .1680

Music . . . . . . . . . . . 18.1% Badminton . . . . . . .15.70

Skating . . . . . . . . . 17.5% Bridge . . . . . . . . . .15.90

Badminton . . . . . . . 16.2% Handcrafts . . . . . .1570

Bowling . . . . . . . . . 14.0% Music . . . . . . . . . . .15.70

Co-recreation develops mutual enjoyment,
spect, and confidence on both sides; playing w i
each other and against each other helps boys a 
girls, husbands and wiges, and parents and c
dren to know each other better. Students sho
be encouraged to appreciate this side of sports.
our current program mixed classes have been c
ducted in badminton, bait casting, fencing, da
ing, rifie shooting, bowling, and tennis. Hall
ganizations have been encouraged to play mi
games in field hockey, volleyball, and softb
Another step in this direction was the introducti
of a class in badminton for faculty wives. It
possible that even more can be done to prom -
co-recreational activities.

Recreational, civic, and avocational activi
other than sports play a satisfying and necess .
role in post-college life. The activities of this t
engaged in by our graduates are:

MEN
Professional organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . 29.4%
Church and religious organizations. . . . .19.3%
Reading and discussion groups . . . . . . . ..15.9%

Civic Clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13.2%

College alumni groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.4%

Fraternal organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6.8%

Hobby clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6.8%

Political organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6.4%

Community charity work . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.5%

Study clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41.0%
WOMEN

Church and religious organizations . . . . . 19.8%

Study clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16.3%

Reading and discussion groups . . . . . . . . . .14.5%

Professional organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . .12.2%

Civic Clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..122%

Hobby Clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9.3%

Red Cross work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.3%

College alumni groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7.0%

Community charity work . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7.0%

Political organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.7%

At Antioch, three years of physical educatio
are required for graduation. There is always muc
discussion among students and faculty as to th

 
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
    
   
 
     
 
   
   
  
   
 

' 'alidity of this requirement. The Department feels
hat in reality the requirement is too little. The
hysical make—up of each individual plays an im-
ortant part in his life, along with his mental
' hievement. To be symmetrical, one should be
qually developed along both lines. Many students
‘ at their physical development and achievement
. . Her, and, as a consequence, many graduates wish
| w that they had been required to do more in this
n : ea. \

i The results of this questionnaire show the fol-
owing about the present three-year requirement:
18.5% thought it was too little; 70.5% thought it
vas correct as it is; and 5.5% thought it was
b0 much.

The Department concludes from these findings
flat it is in general serving fairly adequately the
ollege and after-college needs of its students (in
so far as it can, due to limited facilities in some
ports) in the areas of team and individual sports.
he three years of required physical education are
leeded in most cases to give students an enjoy-
ent level of skill in team intramural sports and
0 or more individual sports. It is still debated
l‘y authorities in the field whether a student should
achieve a high degree of skill in one or two sports,
or a limited degree of skill in several different
' sports. In any event, the present amount of time
. will be needed to pursue either course.
Although‘an adequate job is being done in the
areas of team and individual sports, it is found
quite conclusively that these types of sports are
not being engaged in to as great an extent after
college as are other activities—bridge, gardening,
hiking, social dancing, photography and so forth.

To be completely successful, every department
should meet both college and after-college needs of
its subject matter. To rectify this situation par-
tially, the Physical Education Department has sug-
. gested the introduction of a fourth-year course

Which would be designed primarily to teach adult

recreation activities. There are many good argu-

ments unfavorable to this‘ plan. One is the diffi-
culty of arousing a student’s interest in activities
in which he has not a great interest at this stage
of his development. Some graduates feel this is
possible; others do not. Another barrier is the
I matter of academic credit. Some of the faculty feel
that academic credit should not be given for such
I work. There are still two alternatives: (1) to in-
clude some of these activities in the third year for
students who have already mastered the require-
ments; (2) make our college hobby clubs, such as

a
(

 

LEISURE TIME AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION . 517

the Camera Club, more active and more educa-
tional, and to form new clubs of this kind.

Something is being done along both these lines
at present. Bait casting and rifle shooting are now
being offered as elective third-year activities. Dance
groups, a camera club and an outing club have been
organized to meet other needs. Obviously more
can be done in this area, but a fourth-year physical
education course would make the activities more
unified and give them more significance in the eyes
of many students.

The graduates have this to say about a fourth-
year course devoted to adult recreational activities:
11.7% indicated it should be a required course;
77.5%, that it should be offered as an elective
course; and 6.7%, that it should neither be re-
quired nor offered.

What the Students Say

The summary of the findings of this study would
not be complete without quoting some of the re-
marks on the subject made by graduates. Some
comments from women were:

“My main criticism is that I spent too much time on
sports that require a good bit of skill, yet not enough
time to become good at any one.”

“It is my experience that body-building exercises are
very helpful toward acquiring a feeling of adequacy in
sports, and thereby real enjoyment of the game and the
physical activity.”

“After one leaves college, one’s center of interest
changes. My time is taken up with my duties as a house-
wife, and my extra time is devoted to volunteer work and
reading. However, I have always felt Antioch’s educa-
tion program was excellent and that I learned a great
deal from the P. E. program. If in the future I may have
more of an opportunity to participate in sports, I believe
the fundamentals learned at Antioch will be more than
adequate.”

“I owe a lot to the physical education program at
Antioch—I’m sure I never would have learned to enjoy
participating in group or individual sports without it. I
had always hated sports in high school because I wasn’t
very good at them and only the best players got any at-
tention or recognition. At Antioch, everyone seemed to
enjoy himself and participate whether expert or not, so
I joined in and learned that I could do some things in
athletics if I tried. Though I seldom participate in any
group games now, I wouldn’t give up having had the

experience and fun in college of playing hockey, volley-
ball, basketball, etc.”

801116 men’s COI‘DITICI'ItS were:

“Dislike required gym program. Would rather have it
available to use at own desire and pleasurbrecommend
fewer team sports.”

“Feel that physical education should not attempt to

( Continued on page 523)

Basketball for the Employed Girl

out how many employed girls

choose tennis, golf or swim-
ming as leisure-time recreation. On the other
hand, several years ago an estimate was made as
the result of a survey that there are seventeen
hundred girls playing basketball in fourteen leagues
located in eight states of the central district. Ap-
parently somewhere in the early training ‘of these
young women they had acquired a taste for a team
game in which they maintained an interest after
their school days were over. In a national survey
completed about the same time' it was found that
there were over three hundred thousand school
and college girls in the country playing basketball,
in spite of a low percentage of returns from the
questionnaires sent out.

IT IS RATHER difficult to find

Basketball is probably the most p0pu‘lar team
game played by girls in high school and college in
the United States today. It is apparently a sport
that many do choose and many more would choose,
if offered the opportunity to participate in it dur-
ing their spare time. The question of how and
under what conditions such opportunity to play is
and should be offered is a burning one. Organiza—
tions that are sponsoring basketball have found
many problems.

The millenium in a sports program for leisure
time will come when players can form their own
organizations and draw coaches and officials from
their own groups as need arises, with the desire
for these activities created through training and
participation in school programs of physical edu-
cation. When this happy goal is reached it will no
longer be necessary for the government or local
organizations to coax people into the play space
they have provided and then
strive to keep them there by
exhibiting many and varied .
things to hold their interest. '
Large cities at the present
time probably do offer more
opportunities to play for a
girl Whose chosen sport is
basketball, for instance, than
does the smaller city or
town. Such cities have made
recreation their responsibil-

518

By EVELYN A. HINTON
University of Wichita

December I94l will mark the beginning of
the fiftieth anniversary of the invention
of basketball. It is an appropriate time'
therefore' to call attention, as this arti-
cle does, to some of the problems faced
by those interested in promoting basket-
ball for girls and women. The article was

submitted by the Women's Rules and Edi-
torial Committee of the Women's Athletic
Section. A.A.H.P.E.R.. which is working to
set high standards in the conduct of ath-
letic games and sports for girls and women.

ity and support it by public tax—
ation. Baltimore, Maryland, for
example, has a number of.bas-
ketball leagues for girls conducted as part of their.
city-wide recreation program. '

It is, it would seem, in the small cities and
towns that most of the problems exist. Where
can we play? Whom can we get to coach us?
How can the expenses of a team or a league bel
financed? All these are very common questions.
Of the private organizations it is probable that
churches and Y.\N.C.A‘:’s furnish the largest num-
ber of gymnasiums free_ of charge. The Y.W.C.A.’s
also lead the list in the sponsoring of leagues,
which are made up for the most part of teams
representing Sunday schools. In most of these in-
stances it will be found that a team entrance fee to
a league is charged and that this money is used
in paying officials and defraying other expenses.

In order to play on a church team there is often I
a rule to the effect that the player be a member of 
a Sunday school class and attend this class a cer—
tain number of times a month. The coaching the
team receives is very limited. In some instances
the team has one practice a week in addition to the
weekly game. Because of the scarcity of volunteer
women coaches quite often a man acts as coach.
In many larger communities the church has its
own gymnasium and the problem of somewhere to
play is easily solved.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

As the result of the survey previously men.—
tioned, some of the problems listed and general
comments on the conduct of leagues were as
follows:

Heading the list, as already stated, was the dif-
ficulty experienced in obtaining women coaches
and officials. Training
courses and officials’ rating
boards are undoubtedly the
best solution of this prob-
lem. Meetings of coaches
and officials for the discus-
sion and interpretation of
rules are of great value, and
where it is not possible to
have a training course for
volunteer coaches and there

(Continued on page 525)

WORLD AT PLAY

AN interesting sugges-
tion for the art pro-
gram comes from
Scranton, Pennsyl-
vania, where a carrying case was made for the
WPA art instructor which included twenty—four
drawing boards of three-ply wood, twelve sets of
Devoe’s water colors with brushes and drawing
paper. This equipment has increased tremendously
the interest in art work on the part of the play-
ground children.

Some Novel Ideas
from Scranton

Another novel idea is the portable playground

library. This consists of book shelves with solid.

doors which can be closed and locked. The shelves
are about four feet high and thirty inches wide,
with handles on either side. The top shelves are
planned for books of regulation size and the bottom
shelves are partitioned so that they will hold maga-
zines. This is an NYA project sponsored by the
public library.

, AMERICAN Education
Week will be cele-
brated November 9 to
15, I941. “Education

for a Strong America” will be the theme of the

week. “Building Physical Fitness,” “Strengthen-
ing National Morale,” and “Enriching Family

Life” will be the subjects considered on three of

the days of the week. Further information and

literature describing ways of observing it may be

secured from the National Education Association,
Washington, D. C.

American Education
Week Observed

 

A. G. NORD, Assistant

Regional Forester, In-
termountain Region,
writes of the increas-
ing use of the recreation facilities in the national
forests. As an example, he states that the people
of Ogden, Brigham City and Logan, Utah, made
305,465 visits in 1939 to the near-by canyon picnic
areas and camp grounds in Cache National For-
est. Residents of Salt Lake City and adjacent
communities paid 878,830 visits to Wasatch Na-
tional Forest to enjoy the recreation facilities.
“The rapidly growing use in the national forests
by people from the cities seeking winter recrea-
tion,” says Mr. Nord, “is vividly illustrated by the

Recreation in the
National Forests

 

0

fact that in 1939 they made 226, 9 visits to these
areas, while in 1940 this number had grown to
240,682.”

THE READING, Penn-
sylvania, -Department
of Public Playgrounds
and Recreation has or-
ganized a bicycle club for young women between
the ages of twenty-five and thirty-five years which
is under the leadership of the Supervisor of Girls’
and W omen’s Activities. There are no officers in
the club but a committee of live girls plans in
advance a three months’ schedule. This commit-
tee is selected by the Supervisor of Girl’s and
W omen’s Activities who changes the committee
every six months. There are no dues, and any
expenses incurred are met by the girls. Rides are
scheduled twice a month, and one event each
month is usually a planned social affair.

A Bicycle Club for
Girls and Women

MENTION has been
made in RECREATION
of the transformation
by the National Park
Service of the old Chesapeake & Ohio Canal into
a recreation area. With the reconstruction work
completed, the National Park Service last July
inaugurated a series of barge cruises on the ancient
waterway which terminates in Washington. The
bargeI', which accommodates about forty people, is
drawn by a horse. '

Barge Cruises on the
C. and 0. Canal

ATEACH of the play-
grounds located at
Crotona Park, New
York City, an organi-
zation known as the “Crotona Park Boosters” is
engaged in maintaining the beauty and general
neatness of the park. Membership is open to chil-
dren under eighteen years of age who are inter—
ested in enforcing four standards—cleanliness,
prevention of vandalism, participation in recrea-
tion activities, and safety. Each child enlisted as a
booster becomes a voluntary helper of the Depart-
ment of Parks, Police and Sanitation and is en-
titled to wear the official badge. Four thousand
boys and girls have become active members, and
there has been a decided curtailment in such van-

519

The Crotona Park
Boosters

520 WORLD AT PLAY

    

Here’s the

New
DIAMOND

‘fJ‘ ‘

 

Super Ringer

l’r's fhe finest pitching horseshoe ever

madel Aluminum and bronze. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysisI heaf-
’rrea’recl s’reel. Already ’rhe oufstancling
favori’re of professionals and amafeurs
who lmow the value of a good tourna-
men’r shoe. Wrife for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHUE 00.

4b|0 GRAND AVENUE

DULUTH. MINN. I

dalism as smashing lights, carving names on
benches and trees, and displacing fixtures. There
has also been a drop in playground accidents.

A competitive point system is used to determine
the standing of the various playgrounds and scores
are posted weekly. Individual points are credited
to members of playground teams in interplay—
ground competition, to members of safety and
sanitation squads, to active members of newspaper
staffs, and to participants in essay, poster, and
photographic contests.

 

Homecoming Day at Hobbytown—In August,
1941, two mayors met and talked together when
Mayor David Cody of Hobbytown extended a
personal invitation to Mayor Scully of Pittsburgh
to attend Hobbytown’s annual homecoming cele—
bration held the end of August.

Hobbytown is located at the Irene Kaufmann
Settlement in Pittsburgh and boasts a population
of between five and six hundred citizens. The
“town” is supported by factories, ruled by this
local government and served by its own news—
paper, the H obbytown Dispatch. The factories
pay their workers with Hobbytown money, ac—

  
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
  

cording to the number of working hours. Th
police force keeps law and order in the town, an
all cases of misdemeanor are tried before th
judge and a picked jury. Convicted crimes ar
punishable by hard labor or a Hobbytown mone
fine.

The homecoming celebration this year was calle
“V” Day. Every hour of the day was scheduled
and the program included exhibits of factory items
a dance revue, a swimming party, games, a tra
meet, a band concert, and a dance. The even
marked the climax of the summer activities at th
Irene Kaufmann Settlement, where for two month
children from the ages of seven to sixteen worke
and played together. A factory is devoted to eac
type of project conducted—uleather work, wood
work, metal work, weaving, sewing, model air
plane construction, and the manufacture of novel
ties. Each factory has its own supervisor an
policeman.

Hobbytown is in charge of Sidney A. Telle
director of the Irene Kaufmann Settlement.

Community Forests Established—Sixty-seve
new community forests were established in th
United States in 1939, and 81,000 acres wer
added to the total acreage of old and new co
munity forests. The new forests were in the Sout
the East, the Middle West, and the West. Ther
are now over 1,500 community forests in th
United States.

Recreation in CCC Camps—Stanley J. Stan
District Recreation Officer, Sparta, VVisconsi
CCC District, in describing the recreation pr
gram conducted under his leadership, tells of t
Sports Club organized in all the camps to i
prove camp activities, and of a recreation progra
based on interbarracks competition to encourag1
sportsmanship. Officers of the club are elected 11

the members.

The summer program included baseball, softball,
volleyball, swimming, horseshoe pitching, tennis,
relays, archery, shuffleboard, box hockey, tug-0f-
war, table tennis, outdoor wrestling, badminton,
dart baseball, hikes, and picnics. Suggestions for
various activities were sent to the athletic directors
at camp from time to time, and periodically spe-
cialists were called in to give talks and demon—
strations.

A Junior Baseball Program—The Chrysler
Corporation of Detroit, Michigan, through its

’ BASKETBALL’S GOLDEN JUBILEE 521

Basketball's Golden Jubilee

HE SEASON of 1941-42 will mark the fiftieth
anniversary of basketball. To honor the memory
is Dr. James Naismith, inventor of this popular
ame, the Naismith Memorial Committee has been
reated to raise funds to erect a suitable memorial
 o the man who contributed so much to American
sports.
!, The memorial will be known as “the Temple of
asketball” and will include Basketball’s Hall of
1.. Fame, an historical museum, and a modern basket-
all court. In the archives of this hall of fame will
e perpetuated the names and accomplishments of
‘1 the game’s foremost players, together with docu-
ents, curios, souvenirs, and records of the sport.
A ‘The Naismith Memorial Committee plans to
stablish a network of “Golden Ball Games”
I hrough the \Nestern Hemisphere in every locality

where the sports is played. These games will be
: onducted in clubs, high schools, Y.’M.C.A.’s, pre-
aratory schools, A.A.U. Clubs, and similar groups.
Wherever such games are held local authorities in
1‘ charge will be asked to donate as their contribution
1' to the memorial the proceeds of the contests. It is
the hope of the Committee that one of the best
home games of every basketball team will be desig-
Lnated as that team’s “Golden Ball Game.”

: The focal point of celebration will be Spring-
field, Massachusetts, where at Springfield College
'Dr. Naismith invented basketball in 1891. The
vCommittee will conduct its activities in that city,
planning for an international celebration to begin
in December, 1941, in which the United States,
lCanada, Mexico, and South American countries
will take part. Dr. Lester A. Crapster is secretary
of the Committee and may be addressed in care of
the Naismith Memorial Committee, Springfield,
Massachusetts.

 

l

 

 

athletic director, James F. Walsh, conducted a
junior baseball program for boys from eleven to
eighteen years of age. A total of almost 2,100 boys
played ball each week in this program.

Game Book Available—The Department of
Rural Sociology, New York State College of Agri-
culture, has made available a practical booklet
known as “Games for 4-H Clubs, Home Bureaus,
and Groups in the Home.” Out-of—state residents
may secure copies at five cents each from the Of-
fice of Publications, College of Agriculture, Cor-
nell University, Ithaca, New York.

Good Morning, the dance manual which
has met with unusual popularity, has

been supplemented by our latest release.
October 1, 194-1:

RECORDS OF EARLY
AMERICAN DANCES

Ten of these Early American Dances recorded
by Henry Ford’s old-time dance orchestra, playing
a popular form of American folk music. are now
available.

These numbers are taken directly from the Good
Morning book, and chosen for their rhythm. sim-
plicity, and popularity. with a variety of quadrilles.
circles. and couple dances, including a number of
singing calls.

Please fill out the following blank for a catalog
listing these records: ’

HENRY FORD
Dept. R—Box 100

Dearborn. Michigan

Please send me a copy of your catalog listing
Early American Dance Records.

Name .................................................................. ..

Street Address ......................  ............................ ..

City ........................................ .. State ................ ..

 

A New Club for High School Girls—On
October 1 1, 1941, a new senior club for Camp Fire
Girls was launched throughout the United States.
Known as the “Horizon Club,” it is designed to
serve high school girls who may or may not have
had Camp Fire experience. The purpose of the
club, as prescribed by the Camp Fire Girls, is “to
pep up personality, streamline looks, swap ‘date’
data, give community service, suggest career .
chances, and cope with other problems baffling the
teen-age girl.” “

An attractive program book—“Camp Fire Girls
Horizon Club”—has been issued and is available
from the National Council of Camp Fire Girls, 88
Lexington Avenue, New York City, at 50 cents.

 

N
'1'
BY PORTER

Complete line 0! gymnasium.
playground and pool equip-
ment. Famed "Junglogyrn"
Climbing Structure — illus-
trated— as low as $50.40
P. O. B. PactOry. Write for
literature.

1'
rm: 1. E. PORTER conponnrron

ILLINOIS

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

OTTAWA t

522 MY FIRST PARTY

Now Available
A BADMINTON SCORE CARD

EXCELLENT FOR COMPETITIVE CLUB GAMES

AND TOURNAMENT PLAY!
Write Virginia Flora Lockette for details

1184 PROSPECT STREET . . WESTFIELD, N. J.

 

Training Course at the University of North
Carolina—The University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, is initiating courses in the training of
recreation leaders. Sponsoring the program of
study are the following departments of the Uni-
versity: Art, Dramatic Art, Music, Physical Edu-
cation, Psychology, Sociology, the Division of
Public Welfare and Social Work, and the Exten-
sion Division. Further information may be
secured from Dr. Harold D. Meyer, Chairman,
Department of Sociology.

A Folk Festival in West Virginia—On April
3rd the University School of Physical Education
and the Upper Monongahela Valley Association,
in cooperation with community groups in the
Morgantown, West Virginia, area, presented the
second annual folk festival held at the West Vir-
ginia University Field House. There were 350
participants in this colorful festival in which com-
munity singing, square dancing, ballad singing,
harmonica playing, and folk dancing were inter-
preted. There were no prizes, and the competitive
element was absent. An audience of about 3,000
people was present. The program was presided
over by Dean A. W. Thompson. “May your laughs
be hearty and many, and your enjoyment of real
American fun keen,” said President Lawall, of
the University in his greetings to the group.

PLAY MINI-GOLF

Teaches Novice o Lowers Score of Dub Golfer
Mini-Golf and Shud-OE is playable in the recreation hall,
gym, church, parlor or on any sm00th surface. Why not

start a small class in the rudiments of golf. Inexpensive
and Simple to demonstrate.

You taught tennis through my game of Paddle Tennis.
Now try MINI-GOLF.

.Send for catalogue of Paddle Tennis, Rounders, Pad-
minton, (Chinese) Chungua Chess and Shove Ha’Penny.

BEAL'S GAMES. Inc.

277 FIFTH AVE" NEW YORK CITY MUrra‘y Hill 4-7239 -40

For information concerning

The Scottish Country Dance Society of the United States,
write to Beal'l Games. Inc., 277 Fifth Aye" New York City

 

My First Party

By J 0 STRELSIN

I PINCHED MYSELF just to see whether or not
was awake. I must be dreaming! It simpl
couldn’t happen to me! But it did. Coming hom
from school Larry Mallinson asked me to th
Club’s dance. I, who never had a real date in m
life! Oh! I was so excited.

“Mother, Mother, it’s come. I’ve got it!”
cried ecstatically.

“Well, I hope it isn’t catching, dear. What
it P” she asked calmly.

“Oh, Mother!, How can you sit there placidl 
peeling potatoes when my whole future is at stake,
I exclaimed breathlessly. -

“Say, would you mind telling me what all th'
is about?”

"Oh! Kathie! The most wonderful thing h
happened. Oh! Kathie! I’ve been invited to t
dance by Larry Mallinson. Just think of it! A
the girls in this town crazy about him and he in
vites me,” I said jumping up and down for joy.

“Hurray,” she said boredly.

I pretended not to notice the way she took th
news, thongh it hurt my innermost soul. But
had to get on the right side of her to wear he
new gown. Big sisters always having the advaru
tage of deciding whether the “youngsters” should
wear their clothes. I think this is terribly unfaiL.‘
I feel just as old as Kathie and I could look ju
as old too, almost, if I didn’t have to wear such
babyish clothes. But this was different. I mut
have her new gown, by hook or by crook.

After much persuasion (persuasion being In
“miserable” tears and Kathie’s loud protests) I g
the dress—and the wrap. .

Words can’t describe my feelings as I dresseil
on Saturday night. I was rapturously happy. I
had a beautiful dress, and a grand looking escort.
\Vhat more could a girl ask. for?

I bathed and dressed mechanically. I had held a
steaming towel to my cheeks and then rubbed them
with ice to make them redder. I can’t use rouge
because Mother would have a regular ht. ,

Then came the dress—a dream of white taffeta,
sprigged with dainty pink and white buds. It came
below the shoulders, with Alice blue velvet straps
and trimming. I looked at myself in the mirror.
Was this girl really me? Was this tall, slim (I
shouldn’t say it) but beautiful girl really me? I

wrinkled up my nose and was actually surprised
to see her do it, too!

    
     
   
   
   
   
   
    
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
    

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 523

I walked downstairs in a trance, deaf to Kathie’s
horrible warnings of the consequences I should have
to bear should harm come to the dress.

The door bell rang and Dad answered it.

“Hello, my boy! Jean is all ready.”
Larry helped me on with my wrap and opened

the door for me.
I was on my way to the Club Dance with Larry

Mallinson !

0

Leisure Time and Physical Education
(Continued from page 517)

dabble with hobbies. Stick to individual sports and more
calisthenics.”

“Each graduate should pass a proficiency requirement
in a sport he can follow after graduation. More em-
phasis on individual sports—~golf, tennis, horsemanship——
which give real exercise and are popular among people
with a college background.”

“My own feeling is that when in college we may not
see the value of hobby activities, chiefly because they
interest older people. Personally, I have regretted now
not having had some training in these fields.”

“I’m doing things now I never expected to do and can’t
see how you could have guessed while I was in college.
I would have kicked at being required to learn stone
masonry, cabinet-making, post-hole digging, garbage
burning, etc.«—-—most of which are a lot of fun now.”

“Choice of activities should not be made entirely on
what will be of value after graduation, although that
should be the main emphasis. College life is an experi-
ence in itself and many fellows want team sports even if
they know they won’t be able to continue them after
graduating.” ’

“If there is any possible way of following up during
the work period, it would be more beneficial than having
required outside hours during the school periods, because
the work periods approximate living conditions after
leaving school. And if the habit of regular exercise in
addition to regular work: is learned, it will be carried on
later without too much effort.”

A Polar Christmas Party
(Continued from page 487)

side lines cheering and encouraging the “team” of
their choice.

Now comes the Virginia Reel, and then scramble
dances and a Paul Jones. Once the guests begin
dancing, the leader and Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus
may relax until refreshment time.

Refreshments

All this while the wassail has been brewing in
one of the igloos. Cider is the chief ingredient,
spiced with cinnamon, a few cloves, and a little

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
2 Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 2

 

MAGAZINES

The American City, October 1941
“Recreation Planning for Low-Rent Housing” by
Howard L. White

Beach and Pool, September 1941
“How to Make a Pool Pay” by C. H. Fieldhouse
“Problems of Public Swimming for Negroes in
Southern Cities” by Harry K. Parker

Epworth Highroad, August and September 1941
“Church Drama Club” (two installments) by Inez B.
Alder

Journal of Physical Education, September-October 1941
“Changes in the Volley Ball Rules” by R. E. Laveaga

The Physical Educator, October 1941
“Bowling ’Em Over” by Vincent Farrell
“Recreation as a Family and Community Problem”
by A. A. Esslinger
“Teaching Guide for Co-educational Activities in
Physical Education.” Syllabus and bibliography for
teachers of co-educational games and folk dancing

Safety Education, September 1941
“Standards for Athletic Protective Equipment” by
Ben W. Miller

PAM PH LETS

A Brief School Guide. Lists of junior and senior col-
leges, universities, boarding and, day schools, elemen-
, tary and secondary schools, and schools for specialized
training.
Porter Sargent, 11 Beacon. Street, Boston, Mass,
price $.25

A Central Volunteer Bureau in Defense. Suggestions for
organization and program

Association of Junior Leagues of America, Inc., New
York, price $.10

Flower Arrangement Made Easy, by Dorothy Biddle and
Dorothea Blom
Home Institute, Inc., New York, price $.15

Indians at Work. Monthly news sheet for Indians and
the Indian Service

Department of Interior, Office of Indian Affairs,
Washington, D. C.

Kids and Crossroads. Work of the Y.M.-C.A. ‘by C. W.
Meredith, A. L. Crampton and 'E. M. Dinger
Young Men’s Christian Association, Flint, Mich.

Manual of Playground Drum Corps. Selections for chil-
dren’s toy drum corps

Board of Park Commissioners, Minneapolis, Minn.

Municipal Recreation. Leisure-time activities in a Cali-—
fornia City

Recreation Department, Oakland, Calif.

Notebook of Twenty-Ninth Conference of National Fed-
eration of Settlements

National Federation of Settlements, New York City

Portsmouth and National Defense. Series of newspaper
articles describing defense problems and activities in
Portsmouth, New Hampshire; one paper on recreational
facilities

Tho:1 _Portsmouth Herald, Portsmouth, New Hamp-
s ire

Quiz and Puzzle Contests compiled by James W. Moore
Boys Athletic League, New York

524 THE MOUNTAIN COMES TO MOHOMET

  
 

  

National Recreation
Congress Proceedings

   

o The Proceedings of the 26th National
Recreation Congress held in Balti-
more, Maryland, September 29-
October 3, 1941, will be of special

interest at just this time because of
the emphasis on defense recreation.

 
         
 
    
 

For an entire day, representatives of
recreation committees of defense
councils and similar groups, gov-
ernment officials and others inter-
ested in recreation for the men in
uniform met to discuss their prob-
lems. These discussions will be re-
ported in the Proceedings, as will
the main addresses given throughout
the Congress.

 
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

Summaries of the many section
meetings on all phases of recreation

will be included.

Order your copy of the
Proceedings now.

Price. $1.00

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue New York City

      
       
        

nutmeg. This wassail has been made in the tradi-
tional way. Apples are hung over the vessel low
enough to catch the heat. They soften and drip
into the wassail. With this Christmas drink there
will be sandwiches, crullers, and Christmas cookies
in all the shapes we remember from childhood——
stars, chickens, rabbits, not forgetting our old
friend, the gingerbread man.

Some guests may prefer a cold drink, so pro-
vide something, and by all means have a bowl of
ice cubes into which have been frozen holly leaves
and berries to give the holiday touch to the
beverage.

Singers are chosen in advance from the group
and they march around the room singing “Here
We Come a—Wassailing,” all the others joining in
the familiar chorus.

This makes a fitting ending for a well-paced
Christmas party, and if it is done with becoming
zest we feel sure that your guests will wish to
return again for a celebration at the North Pole.

' lows Christmas Tree Party held at the municipal

The Mountain Comes to Mohomet
(Continued from page 498)

centers the children are served chocolate and cook
ies.by neighborhood groups.

Exciting events follow in rapid succession. To
shops are opened at the community centers wher
children may send or bring old and discarded toy
to be reconditioned for distribution at Christma
to less fortunate children.”

Christmas fairs are held at each center the firs
week in December. Here ideas of all kinds f0
Christmas are presented—how to make an attrac-
tive gift from materials at hand ; how to wrap gift
attractively with available materials; Christma
goodies; a novel Christmas tree; unique ideas for
decorations. All these are displayed and instruc
tions on “how to do it” are given at the handcraf
classes. Each community center has a lighted out

   
   

capes sing carols around the tree and march alon
the sidewalks stopping to sing for invalids an
other shut-ins 0f the neighborhood.

The weekly radio program presented by the,
children of the different community centers in
December features Christmas songs and stories.I

Christmas plays and tableaux are given in all the
centers and after-school recreation classes. Thel
Christmas carol truck makes its rounds each nigh
for the week preceding Christmas, and on Christ-
mas Eve it makes a tour of the whole city. Christ-
mas tree parties with a big tree, goodies donated
by civic organizations, and gifts.from the Christ-
mas toy shops distributed by Santa Claus himself
are held in the centers on Christmas Eve.

The entire organization of the Recreation De-
partment volunteers its services for the Goodfel-

auditorium the morning before Christmas for the
underprivileged white children of the city. The
afternoon is given over to a similar party for the
colored children. A continuous program is
given by groups of playground children in gay
Christmas costumes during the three hours the
morning party is in progress and a similar pro-
gram is presented by the colored playground
groups during the afternoon.

The recreation staff has an old-fashioned south—
ern Christmas breakfast on the Monday preceding
Christmas Day with a Christmas tree and a pro-
gram by the staff members. This breakfast takes

BASKETBALL FOR THE EMPLOYED GIRL 525

the place of the regular Monday morning staff
‘ meeting and is eagerly looked forward to each year.

During the holidays after Christmas a compre—
hensive program of activities is held at all the
community centers. Christmas decorations remain
until the New Year and all class work takes on the
nature of a holiday party. The climax of this gay
Christmas season is a Watch Party on New Year’s
Eve for all members of the community center
family. And thus another year of recreation
activities is ushered in “way‘ down South in
Memphis.”

Aurora Holds lts Annual Doll Show

(Continued from page 511)

dimensions: back scene —-—45%” by 24”; left
scene — 17” by 24”; right scene — 17” by, 24”.

One of the interesting features of the event is
the distribution of the dolls when the show is over.
The dolls are retained by the Recreation Depart-
ment and last year were given to underprivileged
girls at a city-wide party held the Saturday before
Christmas in each of the high school gymnasiums.
Last year there were 333 dolls available for
Christmas distribution, a sufficient number to fur-
nish each girl with a doll representing a character
from a familiar story.

Aurora has found the doll pageant an excellent
project for early December and recommends it to
other cities!

In the National Emergenty
(Continued from page 496)

aid in the work of the society, to the end that it
may become a strong force in the development of
the professional interests of its members and in
the advancement of the recreation movement.

To the officers and committee members of the
Society I wish to express my sincere appreciation
for cooperation and willing assistance during my
term as president. Every member called upon to
perform some service for the society has responded
willingly and competently. The National Recrea-
tion Association has been helpful in many ways,
and to its president, Mr. Howard Braucher, I ex—
press my sincere thanks.

I am grateful to the Society for the honor of
‘ serving as president during the past two years.
Accept my best wishes for a successful and note-
worthy meeting.

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

Hs Originally
Developed by . . .

DR. FORREST C.

"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University or Kansas

Lawrence, Kansas

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play.
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating

exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG

(Manufactured Under Exclusive License Agreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
  Street D b D a n

it St. Louis. Mo.
Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

Basketball for the Empolyed Girl

(C outiuued from page 518) i

 

is no rating board, such meetings are doubly
helpful.

With regard to the general conduct of leagues,
meetings of coaches and of all captains 0r manag-
ers, or both, make for harmony. Here such ques-
tions as the use of “pinch hitters” playing on more
than one team, and of games with teams outside of
the league can be discussed and general agreement
reached.

The future offers many problems and possibili-
ties regarding the provision of recreation for the
ever-increasing amount of leisure time which the
girls and women of America will have. Existing
organizations must sponsor and volunteers must
be found to direct and coach such activities as are
already favored by large groups of people. Bas-
ketball is just a part of a year—round program, but
it occupies a large and absorbing season.

One way in which the difficulty of finding
women who are prepared to direct this sport and

526 ' BASKETBALL FOR THE EMPLOYED GIRL

others can be met by spending more time in de-
veloping leaders in high school and college. De-

velop more “whistle blowers” and encourage them

to take an active part in leadership in the com-
munity. What becomes of the presidents of high
school and college athletic associations and good
athletes, particularly those who took a lively and
active interest in basketball? This is a question
worth investigation. An effort should be made to
keep their interest alive and secure their help.

As physical educators we believe that the fruits
of an all—round physical education program should
find expression through an abiding interest in
physical activities when school days are over, or
else only half our objectives are ever attained.
Basketball attracts a large group of young people
and because it is played in a small space, com-
pared to field hockey, for instance, there is a dan-
ger of deveIOping the less-desirable phases of keen
competition. It is for this reason that the trained
woman teacher of physical education is the logical
one to supervise and advise in this activity. The
criticism heard of many physical education di-
rectors is that they have lost their personal inter-
est in the game and hence are unwilling to give
additional time beyond their school duties to its
development in the community. Keeping a sympa-
thetic attitude and giving it practical expression,
not only by setting up ideals but by helping to find
and develop coaches and officials among their own
students, would go a long way toward improving
the basketball situation for girls who are no longer
in school and who want to play the game.

Recreation in West Hartford

(Continued from page 502)
The leisure-time program has given many per-

sons the opportunity for the first time of experi-
encing the joy and satisfaction of doing community
service, of becoming conscious of their town, and
of contributing to the growth of the community

and increasing the pleasure of living in West
Hartford.

Volunteer Service in a Recreation

Program
(Continued from page 506)
and archery, community sings and drama produc-
tions. These are only a few of the events of the
festival, and volunteer leaders are in charge of the
development and operation of each event.

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
   
  

Securing and Holding Volunteers

Volunteers receive their invitation to serve fro
a committee of Board members, and it is large]
because of the enthusiasm of these members tha
there has been so great a degree of success i
securing the right kind of leadership.

Supervisors on the park playgrounds are con
stantly alert to discover volunteers. For example
Mrs. Blank visits the playgrounds and in th
course of conversation states that she taught pub
lic school music a few years ago. The superviso
seizes the opportunity to ask Mrs. Blank if sh
would be interested in coming to the playground
several times a week to direct the chorus. In mos
instances she is interested, the schedule is set, an
that particular playground has a chorus for pre
sentation at its community show. This is true 0
other activities such as swimming, storytelling
photography, and dramatics.

A card index is kept giving information on al
outside talent used for community shows. Eac
year this is slightly changed. New groups call and
ask to put on shows, their names are included i
the file, and others are eliminated. If the file i
kept up to date as new talent comes in and other
discontinue activities, it is a simple matter.

At times park department workers attend per
formances of commercial entertainers, and if th
type of entertainment is desirable for the com-
munity shows they talk with the performers about
the possibility of their appearing on park pro—
grams. As a rule they are glad to do this.

The Recreation Division makes it a point to see
that volunteers receive public acknowledgementl
(through newspapers and other mediums) for-
their activities. Each year all supervisors and
those volunteers in charge of recreation groupsl
send to the office a list of the names and addresses
of individuals who are to receive “thank-you” let-'
ters. The list is kept on file at the office, and the
Recreation Division always feels free to call on'
these individuals for their volunteer service.

Moreiplaygrounds for New York City'

(Continued from page 505)

WPA from plans prepared by the Department of
Parks.

An interesting recreational development is under
way in the improvement to half of the 26-acre
outdoor recreation area facing the Queensbridge
Housing Project, overlooking the East River in

Queens, New York. The Work Projects Admin-

MORE PLAYGROUNDS FOR NEW YORK CITY 52.7

FOR INTRA-MURAL AND SCHOLASTIC
SPORTS THERE IS NO FINEREQUIPMENT

I Many of the Champions in baseball, softball and golf have reached the top with

‘ Hillerich & Bradsby bats and clubs. They recognize the supreme craftsmanship

and quality built into all H & B sports equipment and you will recognize it too!

Write for catalogs describing the 1942 Louisville

   
 
 
   

 

BASEBALL
AND

SOFTBALL
BATS

istration, which is doing the work, hopes to turn
this $858,000 project over to the Park Depart-
ment sometime in the spring. The area will serve
,not only the 3,149 low-income families living in
:the Housing .Project, but the near-by resident
industrial workers in this locality of more than
eleven thousand people.

At the southern end of the main section a large
area has been graded and seeded, and will be
further developed at a later date. Midway a con-
cession building occupies a plot 48 by 75 feet,
with accommodations for light lunches and re-
freshments and rooms for storage purposes. An
athletic field containing four softball diamonds
convertible into a football field is progessing along
the north side of the concession structure.

Concrete steps have been constructed which lead
from the recreation area to a new promenade,
commanding an excellent view of the Manhattan
skyline. The promenade is 1,340 feet long and
extends along the entire water front of the new
Queens recreation site. The west side of the field
features a good sized sand pit located in the center
of a semi-circular walk, and a large lawn area

Slugger bats and Grand Slam and Lo-Skore golf clubs.

Thank you for the fine
reception you gave
our products at your
National Convention.

’tbtrcluss

HILLERICH & BRADSBY COMPAY,mc.. LOUISVILLE. KY.

around which a combined bicycle and roller skat-
ing track has been developed.

The second smaller part of the project is being
laid out under the protected concrete approaches
of the bridge, extending from Vernon Boulevard
to zlst Street. Here rUnning east and west will be
a children’s area with a large wading pool con-
vertible into a volleyball court, kindergarten swings,
slides, seesaws, and a sand pit. A comfort station
has been erected in this section and west of this
building will be located another adult section with
eight swings, two basketball courts, “a pipe frame
exercise unit, two volleyball courts, and 'six hand-
ball courts.

The east end will contain eight shuffleboard
courts, four badminton, and eleven horseshoe
pitching courts. Operations include the construc-
tion of a one story building for the Department
of Public Works which will operate a storage yard

' bordering on the recreation area.

Of the $858,215 to be spent on the project, the
New York City Park Department as sponsor is
contributing $3 57,000 for materials and equipment.

528

Join the
INNER CIRCLE

OF HAPPY
TEACHERS

who make their work

EASIER and more
RESULTF UL THROUGH
the USE of

Junior Arts and Activities

There are 915,000 grade teachers in the United States.
Within this great group is an inner circle of conscien-
tious, serious-minded teachers who make their work
more enjoyable and more effective for their pupils by
utilizing the wealth of valuable project material, units,
and ideas that come to them each month in JUNIOR
ARTS AND ACTIVITIES—the fastest growing elementary
teacher’s magazine in America today!

. . . in fact, THIS is the ONLY teacher’s magazine that
contains such a storehouse of practical, usable material

and information presented in a way that captures the
interest of every pupil.

NEW FEATURES, in addition to the departments
already established (music, safety, classroom methods,
correlations of art and crafts with the other subjects
in the curriculum, articles on art instruction, and
units) will be added in September. Among these will
be creative -writing in the elementary grades, new
methods for integrated programs for schoolwork,

plays, programs, travels, etc.—all designed for ONE
purpose—to HELP YOU.

Every issue contains material for the primary, inter-
mediate, and upper grades covering regular and
special subjects.

SUBSCRIBE NOW! 0 PAY LATER!

Join the Inner Circle of teachers who subscribe for
JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES. Don’t miss a single issue

-—10 BIG ISSUES ONLY $2.00. No need to send

money now. If, for any reason, you are not entirely
satisfied after you receive your first c0py (the big

September issue) you may cancel your subscription
within 10 days.

MAIL COUPON TODAY
I-I-IIIIIIIIIII-III.-.III-IImIIIIIII-IIIIIII
JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES 3'11"“
740 Rush Street. Chicago. Illinois

Please enter my subscription for JUNIOR ARTS AND
ACTIVITIES for

[Z] I year at $2.00 I] 2 years at $3.00 (a saving of $|.00)

If I am not satisfied I may cancel my subscription within

10 days after receipt of the September issue. Otherwise
I shall remit on or before December 6.

 

Name ........................................................................................ ..

A ddress .................................................................................... ..
City ....................  .......................... .. State ............................ ..

MUSEUII/I OPENED AT CHEESEQUAKE PARK

Museum Opened at
Cheesequake Park

ANEW MUSEUM, completed and ready for us
awaits the nature study groups who u
Cheesequake State Park, New Jersey’s new rec
reation spot near Perth Amboy and Raritan Ba
as a site for their explorations and surveys. Th ,
building, erected by WPA crews, is in a larg
tract set aside for nature lovers and affords com
plete facilities for study, lectures and classroo
work. ‘

  
   
     
  
  

Inside, a beautiful peanut-brittle stone doubl
fireplace opens on both the main lecture room an
a large classroom. In addition, a furnace will be:
installed in the basement before the building i
formally turned over to the state, so that t
structure can be used by nature groups in t
winter.

Botanists and ornithologists have made wide us
of the park because, situated as it is on a woode
and secluded upland, it includes a great deal of the
flora and fauna- of the state. Naturalists are en-
thusiastlc about the park because of its locatio
along the terminal moraine, the narrow strip lefl
in the wake of the glaciers, and which extend!
from Perth Amboy into Pennsylvania. It is re-
garded more or less as the boundary line between
northern and southern hardwood trees, both Cf
which are found in Cheesequake Park. I

Four botanical surveys, under the direction of
Dr. John A. Small of Rutgers University have
been made within the park.

Total area of the park at present is about 1,000
acres, but it is planned to triple this area eventu-
ally. When the park opened last year, VVPA work-
men had prepared about 300 acres for the use (If
visitors. Since then, another section of 450 acres
has been completed. Five miles of road and
twenty miles of trail have been completed by WPA
workers, with large auto parking spaces and picnic
grounds, open air fireplaces with tables and
benches and shelters with the same equipment for
use in case of rain.

A ten-acre lake, formed by damming streams in
the vicinity will provide boating and bathing fa-
cilities. A 600-f00t earthen dam is being con-
structed, and the muck in a lowland area is being
dredged out for the lake bed. Dredging and dam
will be completed before winter, and it is hoped
that the lake may be used for skating this winter.

The western edge of the lake will be filled with

l SEATTLE 5 WIN GS TERS 529

{l sand, to make a beach 1,000 feet long. It will
i slope from the wooded shore to a maximum depth
I of six feet. _The rest of the lake will be four feet
l deep, and dotted with small islands.

, Since the opening last year WPA workmen
* have oiled the roads, and the popularity of the park
l is attested to by the fact that more than 600 cars
have been parked within it on recent Sundays.
i Entrances to the park are on Route 9 at Cheese-

' quake and on the county road that joins Route 35
at Laurence Harbor.

More About Recreation for Men

in Uniform
(Continued from page 509)

training school, and the community center is now
serving as headquarters for the program. Activi-
- ties consisting of softball, volleyball, tennis, ping-
pong, badminton, horseshoe pitching, croquet, bas-
ketball, baseball, and table games are available to
the men in uniform. Dances are held every other
week, with VVPA‘ bands furnishing the music. The
)7.\V.C.A., Catholic Community Center, and the
sororities of Toledo University have been asked to
‘ cooperate in the promotion of the dances.

Katchina Dolls

(Continued from. page 491)

hibits of Indian crafts, and Katchina characters
are a favorite subject because they are so color-
ful and symbolize the Indian’s religion.

The libraries should have colored plates from
various collections recently published in books and
magazines. The Library of Congress should also

be helpful in supplying information about the
Hopi Tribe.

Colored Citizens Present Music

Festivals
(Continued from page 512)

Wide Music Committee of Dixwell House spon-
sored a folk dance festival in which over one hun-
dred of New Haven’s colored citizens participated.
' The plan for hnancing the festival, which was ob—
served at the Troop Junior High School, involved
. the securing of patrons at $1.00 each. A patron
was entitled to two reserved seats. General ad-
mission for adults was 25 cents plus a coupon
distributed free; for children the charge was I 5

cents and a coupon.
Dr. Clarence Cameron White, who directed the
Cincinnati festival, was in charge of the music

The Christmas Book

Delightful illustrations, practical directions
for making Christmas decorations, a chil-
dren’s party, a Christmas music quiz, echoes
of Christmas customs throughout the world,
Christmas caroling, and timely articles on
other phases of Christmas celebrations will
be found in this new booklet.

The Christmas Book will be

ready for distribution the
middle of November. Order

your copy now.

Price $.50

National Recreation Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue New York City

institute in New Haven which culminated in the
festival.

Seattle Swingsters
(Continued from page 510)

important in making these “swing and rhythm”
classes the most popular of all physical education
activities. And these well—attended sessions have
helped to solve many social problems as well as
to increase the parents’ interest in school pr0grams.

During the first semester a Junior Golf Asso-
ciation chapter was organized and the Park Board
issued a membership card with playing privileges
on any of the three municipal courses at a fifteen
cent fee. These cards are good four times a week
and are also accepted by many of the semi-private
clubs. Playing clubs are checked out at school
much as library books would be handled and many
courses make no charge for the Use of clubs if the
cards are presented. The student who signs the

card accepts the golf code and pledges his co-
operation.

The Stadium Driving Range located near the
University of Washington campus has also set up
a special low student fee for use of balls and is
furnishing clubs free to holders of Junior Asso-

530 THE INDIAN GIVE AWAY

ciation cards.

From results obtained thus far, city leaders
expect some potential “greats” to develop. Many
students are discovering a natural coordination in
this game which they never realized could be such
fun until the opportunity was presented for ex-
pert advise at no expense. Students and coaches
have both adopted the motto of the Junior De-
velopment Program, “Don’t plant the seed unless
you are prepared to help it grow.”

Outside class work was stressed dUring the
spring semester and competition set Up in each
school to determine several “bests”—best putter,
best on rules and golf etiquette, longest driver,
most accurate with approach from a set distance
to the green, and best swinger. ,

No student is forced to take golf since the true
benefits can be derived only through a desire to
accomplish an end, especially in a game where
patience is such an important factor. Yet so many
have registered for these physical education classes
in the high schools that juniors and seniors have
been given priority. Each class ranges in size
from thirty to forty-live. In addition to learning
the fundamentals of a proper swing, the students
are taught to analyze their own as well as others’
technique. This comes after they have absorbed
enough instruction to insure confidence in their
ability.

The press, radio, and community papers have
done much in promoting golf in the schools. Many
articles, pictures and special features have ac-
quainted the public with the progress that has been
and is being made through the cooperation of the
entire community.

The efforts of school and park people in setting
up this city-wide program have been well repaid
by the enthusiasm of the younger generation, who
are keen in their desire to learn. In vacant lots,
parking strips and backyards, boys and girls can
be seen practicing their strokes for the game that
is turning Seattle into a “city of swing.”

The Indian Give Away

(Continued from page 492)

diameter. The ends were covered with chamois
laced on in true Indian fashion. Designs with
green ink and a short thong completed them.

The favorite articles were Indian dolls. A doll
four inches tall was cut from fairly stiff leather.
Dark drown felt braids were held in place by a
bright felt headdress with seed beads and a felt
feather. The blanket, too, was made of felt with

   
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
 

designs appliqued on it, and with the ends fringed.
It was wrapped and sewed around the body. When
the features had been tooled and several strings of
beads added, it was attached to a short thong.

Small chamois moccasins, made over a true moc-
casin pattern, were laced, beaded, and attached to
a thong so they could be hung on the charm string.
Beaded turtles were made from two pieces 0
chamois. The t0p was beaded. More beads forme
the head and tail. Leather quivers, one and one
half inches long,.were filled with arrows and adde
to the string. Indian pennies were brought fro
their hoarding places. With holes drilled in them,
they were used for bangles and bracelets. Fel
books only one inch long had pages of white pape
in them for autographs.

There were some things which were not of th
Indian theme but were wholly suitable becaus
they were worthy to be symbols of friendship
Doll tennis players were made from pipe cleaner
and dressed in woolen yarn. ‘The bugler received
metal tie clasp made in the form of his- instrument

At Camp Sequoyah, where only adults took part
the gifts were somewhat different because of lac
of time, but each had a Special meaning. Some 0 1
these may be seen on the pictured charm string I
The elephant bell, the stirrup from the equitatio
teacher, the cross from the camp doctor, and bell
that were too large to hang on the string, all wer
acceptable gifts. A piece of true North Carolin
jewelry in the dogwood pattern was used as
pledge of friendship. It is easy to see how varie
the gifts might. be.

The next-day the rush in the craft shop was me
by supplying each camper with a bright cord t
string his trophies. The last days of camp sa
many additional pieces on these charm string
which were cherished possessions of the fifty on
sixty campers who had a lot of fun making crafts
to meet a need that was created by their entire
program. .

While the Indian ceremony and Give Away
dance are eSpecially well adapted to a camp situa;
tion, they can be used in a recreation room or
playground. They would fit in well in school wit;
the art department and the history or geography
group doing the research. The music and dance
steps would fall to the music class.

Like most craft projects to which everyone
makes a contribution, the Indian Give Away had
so many creators that this write-up is really a
reporter’s story of some up-to—the-minute news

from a North Carolina and a Pennsylvania craft
shop.

   
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
   

The Boys' Book of Model Aeroplanes

By Francis A. Collins. D. Appleton-Century Company,
New York. $2.00.

HE FOURTH revised edition Of this book, first issued in
l; 1911, brings the material up to date in accordance with
‘latest developments in the designing and construction of
model airplanes. Much new material has been added, and
,a great deal of the earlier data has been rewritten in the
fight of progress made in aeronautics. The volume in-
gludes about sixty photographs and drawings.

One Act Trips Abroad

By Alice White and Janet Tobitt. E. P. Dutton and
- Company, Inc., New York. $1.50.

+I'HE AUTHORS of Dramatized Ballads and The Saucy
' Sailor and Other Dramatized Ballads have given us a

roup of one act plays based On historical events and

gends ranging from “Bonnie Prince Charlie” to a
humorous Czechoslovakian legend and a colorful Mexi-
can play. Recreation workers in search Of material with
which to enrich their drama programs will find much in

this book.

One Hundred Non-Royalty
Radio Plays ‘

Compiled 'by William Kozlenko. Greenberg: Publisher,
New York. $4.25.

HERE ARE FIF’I'EEN and thirty minute tested scripts for
the use of radio clubs, educational institutions, radio
workshops, camps, and recreation groups anxious to
secure the best available in broadcast material without
the payment of royalties. The collection includes come-
dies, dramas, fantasies, poetic, historical and holiday
plays, and plays based on bibliography, science, and
literature.

How to TeachiChildren Music

By Ethelyh‘ Lenore Stinson, Mus. B. Harper & Brothers,
New York. $1.50.

[SS STINSON, head Of the Music Department of The
Woods Schools, Langhorne, Pennsylvania, in this
book suggests some of the methods ‘she has found help-
ful in awakening in young peOple a natural love and ap-
preciation for rhythm and melody. Numerous case rec-
ords are cited which show the value of music in the lives

. of children.

Cook It Outdoors

' 133$ 1James Beard. M. Barrows and Company, New York.
. 5.

HIS BOOK is the answer to “the colossal appetites that
develop in spring, summer, or when active sports and
the urge to live in the Open air are paramount ideas in
I every man’s head.” There are new ideas for the barbe-

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

cue pit, for portable stoves, and for the equipment of the
outdoor kitchen. And, 'best of all, there are many de-
lectable recipes.

The Modern Choral Hour

Compiled by Harry Robert Wilson and Van A. Christy.
Hall & McCreary Company: Publisher, Chicago. 1 to
3 copies 40¢ each; 4 to 49 copies 36¢ each; 50 or more

32¢ each.

COLLECTION or CHORAL MATERIAL, which though for

the most part is quite distinguished and very worth-
while, certainly is within comfortable reach of amateur
groups of young people or adults. ,It contains two-part
songs, some Of these for SOprano and baritone; 30 three-
part songs, of which five are for soprano, alto and tenor,
and the rest for soprano, alto, and baritone; and 5 four-
part songs. There are also seven rounds and five canons.
It is a very useful and welcome book.

Games and Dances for Exercise

and Recreation

By William A. Stecher and Grover W. Mueller. Theo-
dore Presser Company, Philadelphia. $3.00.

THE FIRST EDITION Of Games and Dances published in
1926 contained 165 pages. This, the nfth edition, has
over 400 pages. Many new games have been added, all
Of which have been tried out under exacting conditions.
In addition to games and dances, there are demonstration
numbers, track and held events and related activities,
competitive mass athletics, achievement standards, and
complete directions for a pageant—the revival Of the
play spirit in America.

A Good Time at Your Party

By Helen Stevens Fisher. M. S. Mill Company, Inc.,
New York. $2.00.

HERE ARE PARTY PLANS and games for all occasions.
There are suggestions for appropriate parties for
every month of the year, and there are a number of mis-
cellaneous parties in this new Ibook on social recreation.
A final section of 85 pages is devoted to a description of
social games of every type from mixers to pencil and
paper games, charades, pantomimes, and conundrums.
The volume should prove a true friend tO the social
recreation leader.

The Education of Free Men

in American Democracy

Educational Policies Commission. National Education
Association of the United States, 1201 Sixteenth Street,
Northwest, Washington, D. C. $.50.

EMOCRACY is of the essence of recreation, is more im-
portant here perhaps than any other field. The
“emphasis on the individual human being as of surpassing
worth” is central to recreation. The Education of Free

531

532 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

M en in American Democracy was unanimously approved
for publication by the Educational Policies Commission.
It is challenging to recreation leaders as well as to edu-
cators. If democracy is to be taken for granted in the
recreation movement, if the recreation movement is to be
built on this as one of the foundation stones—then it is
important that recreation leaders understand more about
what is involved in democracy.

How to Make Your Own Furniture.

By Eugene O’Hare. 'Harper & Brothers, New York.

$2.50. .

With the help of this book it will be possible for a
beginner in woodworking to build nine useful pieces of
furniture with only seventeen simple hand tools. The
book discusses the design elements involved in each
piece, shows how to adapt these elements to the design of
other pieces, and Offers useful information on how to
purchase and use tools and lumber.

Report of Third National Conference on the
College Training of Recreation Leaders.

Edited by Virgil Dahl. New York University, New
York. $.50.

On January 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1941, New York Uni-
versity was host to delegates to the Third National Con-
ference on the College Training of Recreation Leaders.
The proceedings Of the Conference are now available
from the New York University Book Store, Washington
Square, New York. Individuals and groups interested in
training for recreation leadership will want to avail them-
selves Of the opportunity to secure this report.

Group Work and Case Work—-
Their Relationship and Practice.

By Gertrude Wilson. Family Welfare Association of
America, 122 East 22nd Street, New York. $.85.

Miss Wilson has made a valuable contribution in her
clear analysis of the functions Of case work and group
work and their relationships, and in her presentation of
the problems and misunderstandings which have arisen.
In clarifying the situation, she points out, interpretation
is of fundamental importance, and her outstanding con-
clusion is “the need Of knowledge and understanding by
each worker of the concepts and practice of the other’s
field.” This basic thought is developed throughout the
booklet which, with its interesting illustrative material
and concise exposition, presents effectively the processes
of group experience through which the individual may
be helped to find satisfactions and personal development,
as well as the opportunity to contribute to the group of
which he is a member.

New Forest Frontiers.

Miscellaneous Publication NO. 414. U. S. Depart-

ment of Agriculture. Superintendent of Documents,
Washington, D. C. $.30.

An attractive book which presents chiefly through the
medium of pictures the importance of our forest re-
sources to our industrial and social life and the neces-
sity for preserving these vast resources for jobs, per-
manent communities, and a stronger nation.

Art Without Frames.

Art Education Department, Pratt Institute. Related
Arts Service, 511 Fifth Avenue, New. York. $.10.

A very eifective pamphlet which stresses the impor-
tance of art in everyday life—in education, in dress, in
the home, in industry, and in the community. It discards
the old idea that art can exist only within frames in
galleries and museums, and emphasizes the role it

piety; in the activities Of the average man, woman, and
c 1 .

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  

Linoleum Plaque Carving.

_ $Bogv Scouts of America, 2 Park Avenue, New Yor

.2 . a
Instructions are given for mastering this pOpular for
of carving, and suggestions are Offered for tools and equi
ment. The greater part of the booklet, however '
voted to the reproduction Of Merit Badge, Scout and Cu
insignia designs appropriate for carving linoleum plaque

H
U)
Q.

Chicago Civic Directory 1940.

To Organizations Giving Public Service. Obtainabl
from Municipal Reference Librarian, City Hall, Chi
cago, Illinois. $1.00.

This directory has been prepared for the use of publi
administrators and Officers of semi-public agencies i
Chicago, primarily' for those concerned with recreation
education, and public service. Part I deals with city
wide groups; Part II with local groups in each of th
seventy-five communities Within the city. A wide rang
of interests are included—covering civic and service or
ganizations, business and improvement, cultural and pro
fessional, educational, recreational, governmental, racial
patriotic and military, welfare, and youth organizations.

Oflicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Boar‘ I
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, CarliSle, Pa.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
MRS. WILLIAM BUT’I‘ERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore. I
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New'York, N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

‘ SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y. a
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. WADstRTH, Washington” D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. W‘INANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

