Henry Pfeiffer Library

\ MaoMurray College
Jacksonville, Illinois A b p ._

Recreation and Art

LOWLY AND GRADUALLY a people's art movement has grown up in the United States during the
last thirty—four years. Some twelve hundred cities and towns under their own steam, in their
own way, are trying through their own recreation systems to work out better ways of living.

They begin with thought of their children and their young people. They do not stop there.

Children in these cities spend part of their time in learning to work but mainly the thought
is in terms of the arts of living—sports, athletics, music, crafts, nature study, reading. What gives
pleasure, what gives growth, what is permanently satisfying? What builds up a good way of life?

Growth—progress are essential to satisfaction. Strength and beauty are essential to durable
satisfactions. The play and recreation movement is an art movement, helps to build the democratic
art movement.

The cities and towns begin with young people but they do not end there. If the youngsters
are to live, are at least to be exposed to all the arts of life, then surely as they enter industry and the
professions they are to be encouraged to keep right on living in all their free time.

Art in all its forms is becoming a part of the life of the people. Art is not something to be
conlined to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art, the National Art Gal-
lery—it is something to be carried on right in the homes: the churches, the lodges, in connection with
all the daily life of the people. ‘

In the recreation centers there are changing traveling art exhibits. But this plays a minor part
in education as to beauty in living. Girls learn about design and proportion in fashioning their own
hats and dresses. Boys help in making scenery for the plays. All the craft projects help in bringing
a greater understanding of beauty. Boys and girls are not ashamed to try themselves out in painting
and drawing, in trying to express What ideas they have within themselves, and at least they learn a
measure of appreciation for the work of others. All this is done without any compulsion other
than inner. No marks are given.

The youngsters come to the recreation center for music lessons, to sing in the glee club, in the
choral society, to play in the orchestra. Here too an "art culture" is being built, though of course
no one uses such words.

Appreciation of the beauty of nature plays a large part in nature activities. It is just as im-
portant that a youngster enjoy a real sunset over the lake as that he be able to appreciate a painting
of such a scene. Watching flowers grow, learning how to arrange them so as to get the maximum
of pleasure—all that goes into gardening has a real part in the building of a richness and thick-
ness and a strength and a joy of living which makes up culture and civilization.

Those who work in the recreation systems in our cities have reason to interpret all that they are
doing to those who are responsible for all our art galleries and museums and art schools and to all
who care deeply for the art of living.

Art will, of course, never be strong in the United States except as participation in art, under-
standing of art, appreciation of art, belief in art is important on the part of all our people.

All that is good in the art and the civilization of many, many countries should be given a
chance to flower and expand in the lives of the Common people of the United States, and here the

municipal recreation centers have a large part to play.

Whenever a great new national museum of art is given by an individual like Andrew W.
Mellon all in the national recreation movement should rejoice at what has been done to further

beauty in living.

 

APRIL I94:

 

 

Courtesy Department of Parks, New York City

Music's Good Neighborliness in the Americas

HE COOPERATIVE PEACE, as
I it has been called, that has

been developing among the
twenty-one American republics is of great impor-
tance to all of us. Not only is it essential to hemis-
phere defense and even to defense of ourselves,
but if, despite dichulties, its great promise con-
tinues toward fulfillment until the war is ended,
it may prove to be a pattern for making rehabili-
tation and real peace possible in other great areas
of the world. It is as great and inspiring a social
experiment as ever enlisted the interest and service
of man or woman, and its essentials are simple
enough for a child to understand and, in simple
ways, to act upon. For its success depends not so
much on politic deals or pacts between govern-
ments as on what we all do as individuals toward
deve10ping better relationships among ourselves
here at home, as tokens of our real character and

intent, and between ourselves and the people of '

the other countries.

Inter-government pacts that are arranged merely
for nationally self-seeking or self-protective pur-
poses become scraps of paper at a change of eco-
nomic or political wind. To a State whose power
of government is superimposed on its people, and
whose supreme concern is for its own material
success and glory in the world, such pacts may be
the normal and logical instruments of foreign
policy. But all the nations of the New World
were long ago dedicated to a way of life in which

the power and actions of government are subject”

to the opinions of the people, and its supreme con-
cern is for the develop-
ment of conditions under

By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG
National Recreation Association

own America, and he it was
who brought about the first
conference (in 1826 at 'Pan-
ama) of representatives of the independent nations
of the New World to discuss the development by
them of a free federation for mutual understand-
ings and peace, the first Pan—American Confer-
ence. He believed that in time such a Congress of
Nations might develop until it became a practica-
ble and universally desired form of world organi-
zation. We of the Americas have a 'great cause:
a hemisphere of true and lasting international
friendliness to develop, whose frontiers commence
in our own communities.

A New Federal Office for Inter-
American Relations

There have been great dichulties in the way of
Bolivar’s ideals for the hemisphere, including
economic ones as acute as any that have in other
parts of the world led to war, and there are still
very difficult adjustments to be made that urgently
need sympathetic understanding and friendliness
between the Latin-American peoples and our—
selves. To help fulfill this need, our federal gov—
ernment has established an Office for Coordination
of Commercial and Cultural Relations Between
the American Republics. Its work has to do with
all aspects of commerce and finance, but coordin-
ate with these in its efforts are the radio, news,
movies, travel, sports, education, literature, pub-
lications and art and music. I

Of these cultural and communicational interests,
Mr. Nelson A. Rockefel—

ler, the chief of the Office,

which each person may
make his own life a suc—
cess. Relationships between
the American nations must
therefore be of their peo-
ples, not merely of their
governments. Simon Boli-
var, the great hero of the
other Americas, was as
ardent a champion of such
a way of life and of such
relationships between na-
tions as any hero of our

In this article will be found suggestions for
singing. dancing and other activities, and ma-
terials for them. through which we may all find
much enioyment and come closer in spirit to
the people of the other Americas. Seen. as
they are here. in connection with national
measures being taken for defense not only of
a hemisphere but of a greatly promising ex-
periment in international relations. such activi-
ties have an importance that must recommend
them strongly to recreation leaders and edu-
cators in every community. They come at a
time made even more appropriate by plans
for making this year's Music Week. May
4th to IOth. an Inter-American one. These
plans are further described in this article.

says in the Survey Graphic
for March, 1941, that
"this part of the Office’s
program is based upon
these realistic propositions :
(I) That no amount of
national defense effort or
expenditure in the com-
mercial and military areas
can be fully effective un-
less there is a parallel pro-
gram directed toward fos—
tering active and enduring

3

4 MUSIC’S GOOD NEIGHBORLINESS IN THE AMERICAS

friendship between the people of this country and
the peoples of the other American republics; and
('2) That this long range defense asset can best be
created and maintained by a program which is
directly related to the concrete media and chan-
nels through which the daily lives of all peoples
are conducted and expressed.”

“It must be emphasised,” he continues, “that
efecti-Ue action in this area . . . requires an im-
mediate awakening throughout this country of
what is at stake if we fail to develop closer cul-
tural and spiritual ties . . . between ourselves and
the twenty republics to the south of us.” In this
article we want to review briefly some of the
things that have recently been done in this regard
through music and to suggest related activities
and materials close to the interests and opportuni-
ties of readers of this magazine.

A Washington Conference and Its
Revelations

In October, 1939, an invitation from the Secre-
tary of State, Mr. Hull, brought to Washington
from all parts of the country about a hundred
outstanding leaders in music, music education and
recreation, music libraries and publications, radio
broadcasting and phonograph recording, to discuss
inter—American relations in the field of music.
This very animated two—day conference, devoted
to enriching and strengthening friendly relations
between the Central and South American coun-
tries and the United States, dealt with ways and
means of bringing about interchanges between
their peoples and our own in music of various
kinds and in knowledge about it in musical artists
and artist groups, in professors and students, and
in information as to the various kinds of musical
activities in each country. An especially promis-
ing thing about this conference was that, though
almost everyone present was a United States citi-
zen, there being only four or five Latin-Ameri-
cans there, practically all the time and effort of it
was devoted to questions as to how the people of
the United States are to have adequate opportunity
to become familiar with the music of the Central
and South American countries.

Another promising thing about the conference
was the emphasis placed on the importance of folk
and popular music in this Whole project. A good
deal was said about interchanges in the field of
hne art music, and there is no doubt that these,
in addition to the high intrinsic value that they
have and their influence among the growing num-

ber of lovers of such music, give many other peo-
ple also feelings of pride and pleasure when they
know that the music of one of their best com-
posers is performed by a distinguished orchestra,
chorus or other fine group in another country. But _
the folk and popular music it is that can sing and
play its way into the hearts and minds of all the
people in all the countries and also into their own
voices and feet (in dancing) and whistling. We
should never cease effort to help clear the way for
enjoyment of fine art music by more and more peo-
ple, but as one speaker said, we should “live true to
our democratic principles and encourage primarily
the communication of that which is common be-
tween the common men of all countries.” F urther-
more, “music exists primarily in the making of it.
It is in the music that the common man can make
that will be found the main benefit which interna-
tional relations can derive through music.”

A revelation to most of us at the conference
was of the very large variety in the Latin—Ameri-
cans’ dance music, to say nothing about their other
kinds of music. We all know something of the
tango, rhumba and conga, but Mr. Evans Clark
of New York, a layman who has made a hobby of
collecting phonograph records of that music,
almost all of it recorded in its native countries,
has discovered over sixty other distinct dance-
forms, distinctly named, in those records and in
the countries themselves which he has visited. And
he has learned that each country has some dis-
tinctive music of its own. Further studies have
since revealed to some of us a wonderfully large
variety. in other kinds of Latin-American folk
music: not only in dance and love songs, but also
in songs of work, of nature and homeland, Christ-
mas and reverent wonder, country humor and the
love of children; songs sung in fields, boats, in the
solitude of the vast prairies and high plateaus and
in the spontaneously festive society of village
streets and patios, in church holiday processions
and in homes. A fascinating and rewarding field
to explore, contributed to by native Indian and
African peoples as well as Spanish and Portu-
guese, and by minglings of them.

There was at the conference some talk also of
the folk music of the United States that might
interest Latin-Americans and help them to know
us better: the songs of the pioneers, railroad-
workers, cowboys, seamen, farmers, cotton-pick-
ers and other workers, of mothers, lovers, ballad-
makers and minstrels, the music of the old Ameri-
can hymn books, religious folk ballads and white

MUSIC’S GOOD NEIGHBORLINESS IN THE AMERICAS 5

spirituals as well as Negro ones, and the music of
square dances and other country dances. There
could well have been added to this list the folk
songs of people from all over the world who have
become Americans. For this persistent and peace-
able mingling and growing integration here of
peoples of all the nations is itself a distinctively
American trait, an American folkway—if many
more of us will accept it as such-—that may turn
out to be the greatest social experiment of all,
close to the hopes of Simon Bolivar as well as of
our own prophets.

The conference was faced
also by the difficulties of in-
terchanges in the vari-
ous fields of music: of
differences in language,
instrumentation and
style of performance,
and of copyright and
labor union, restrictions.
Certain of its outcomes,
however, are very
promising.

Some Outcomes of the
Washington Con-
ference

At the close of the
conference a Committee
on Inter-American Re-
lations in the Field of
Music was formed to be
associated with the State
Department’s Division
of Cultural Relations.
Its main accomplish-
ments, besides intensi—
fying the interest of
many music leaders in
all parts of the country,
have been:

I. The appointment
of ten subcommittees,
each to undertake a
study and a report to
the parent committee of
the possibilities and
ways and means of
bringing about helpful
interchanges in a dis-
tinct field of music. One A
of these was assigned to

lndians from the town of Todos Santos
In the Cuchmatanes Mountainsl Guatemala

 

Courtesy Pan American-Grace Airways, Inc.

the field of Community and Recreational Music.
The reports of all these committees, brief memo-
randa as to relations with respect to copyright and
to musical motion pictures, and a revealing article
on Brazilian popular music, were published to-
gether in a Report of the Committee of the Con-
ference on Inter-American Relations in the Field
of Music issued by the State Department’s Divi-
sion of Cultural Relations on September 3, 1940.
2. The planning and establishment of an Inter-
American Music Center housed at the Pan-Ameri-
can Union in Washington. The main functions of
this Music Center are to be
the gathering of a reference
library of music, re-
cordings, books and
journals, and a collec-
tion of native instru-
ments; and the further
diffusion of information
as to these things
through bulletins, lists
and correspondence. Its
scholarly and musically
gifted director, Mr.
Charles Seeger, is keenly
interested in folk mu-
sic, in folk singing and
dancing, and in every—
day, recreational uses of
music. It was from his
conference address that
we quoted above." The
service of this Center is
bound to include all that
the growing available
resources will allow of
help to recreation and
education leaders seek-
ing Latin-American
songs, folk dances, re-
cordings, motion pic-
tures, and information
as to folk customs and
festivals.

3. The sending of Dr.
Carleton S prague Smith,
head of the New York
Public Library’s Music
Division, on a four
months’ tour by air of
fourteen South Ameri-
can centers of musical

6 MUSIC’S GOOD NEIGHBORLINESS IN THE AMERICAS

interest to renew or establish contacts with South
American leaders in music, to gather information
as to all phases of the Committee’s interests, and
to provide introduction for South Americans to
our folk and popular music and fine art music and
to musical conditions and activities in our com-
munities.

4. The making of a collection of articles on
music in the United States, to be published in
Spanish as Volume V of the Boletin Latino—
Americano de M mica issued annually by El Insti—
tuto Interamericano de Musica in Montevideo,
Uruguay, and having a wide circulation in South
America. Fifty—two articles were written on as
many phases of music in the United States, each
by a United States person regarded as an au-
thority therein. One of these articles is on Music
in Recreation and was prepared by the National
Recreation Association’s director of music.

All this done, the Committee, as it was, retired
from office in October, 1940, but its main purposes
are being' carried on by the music committee of
the aforementioned Federal Office for Coordina—
tion of Commercial and Cultural Relations Be—
tween the American Republics. Several of the
members of this present committee were members
of the other one.

Other Recent Achievements

Largely because of interest intensified by the
Washington conference, the National Recreation
Association, which .had for many years given spe-
cial effort to furthering a knowledge and use of
folk songs and had issued three booklets of such
songs, undertook in February, 1940, the making
of a large collection to represent all the Americas,
including Canada. This collection of 120 songs
and choruses was entitled Singing America, was
published in a vocal edition in October, 1940, and
in an edition with piano accompaniments in March,
1941, by C. C. Birchard and Company of Boston.
It contains fourteen folk songs of Argentina, Bo-
livia, Brazil, Chile, Cuba, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru
and Puerto Rico, and four of Canada, with their
native texts as well as English ones. In containing

also thirty-hve distinctively United States songs_

and nearly as many folk songs gathered from
American people of more recent European ances-
try, it is intended to live up to all that was said
above about the ideals for inter—AmeriCan rela—
tionships and the “American folkway.” In recog—
nition of the remarkably increased zest for what
we have reluctantly been calling line art music

(knowing no better name) and for singing such
music in schools and elsewhere, the book contains
also a well-stocked Composers’ Corner represent-
ing various countries and great composers.

To enable many of these songs to find their way
to people everywhere, coming not merely in a
book but warmly alive in singing, especially where
adequate re-creation of them is otherwise un-
likely, the Victor Company is providing recordings
of twenty-three of the folk songs, among which
are nine of the Latin—American ones and two of
the Canadian. Arrangements have been made also
for broadcasting of them. An announcement with
details of these records is given on page 32 of
this issue.

An Inter-American Music Week

Amidst recent news of international affairs was
a refreshing announcement by the long-established
National Music Week Committee of its invitation
to make this year’s Music Week a celebration for
and by all the countries of the Americas, all join-
ing with us in this one of our annual occasions for
special tribute to music, and general enjoyment of
it. The Committee has been giving wide circula—
tion to a printed announcement written by its well-
known Secretary, Mr. C. M. Tremaine, but we are
glad to quote from its many helpful and stimu-
lating statements to ensure their being brought to
the readers of this magazine, many of whom are
in positions of especially large inHuence for help-
ing to bring about the kinds of activities for which
they call. “Music is the common language through

_ which we can best express and advance our com-

mon aspirations and promote the spirit of amity.
. . . It is hoped that the participation with us (of
all the American republics) may lead later to a
world—wide International Music Week. . . . No
organizations or individuals in any country will be
asked to participate. . . . Music Week in the
United States owes its success to the fact that it
is in no sense a pressure promotion. It has always
been an expression of the people’s desire for one
occasion when they can participate together in the
enjoyment of music and help to extend the ap-
preciation of its beauty and its benefits more widely
among the general public. The National Music
Week Committee is merely a cooperating head—
quarters to give suggestions and assistance to those
requesting them. It will be glad" to furnish ideas
and counsel to those desiring to participate in an

Inter-American Week.
“Countries participating . . . will naturally wish

MUSIC’S GOOD NEIGHBORLINESS IN THE AMERICAS

A typical carnival scene in the
city of Rio de Janeiro. Brazil

to emphasize their own music, as
it will be primarily an observance
of their nationals, but they will
want to utilize also the musical
heritage of the world's classics.
It is hoped that through the stim-
ulus of Inter-American Music
Week, all the nations of this
hemisphere may become better
acquainted with the music of their
sister countries. Among the peo-
ple of the United States there is
an active and growing interest in
the music of the Central and
South American countries. This
interest, we are sure, they will wish to manifest
increasingly in token of their spirit of friendship.”

Officials of the Pan-American Union as well as
of the Division of Cultural Relations and the Of-
fice for Coordination have all expressed warm
interest in this project, and promising contacts
are being made with leaders in the other countries.
Lists of representative and available vocal and in-
strumental music and phonograph records are
being prepared by Mr. Seeger, Mr. Evans Clark
and others and will be available through the Inter-
American Music Center now established at the
Pan-American Union in W ashington. The address
of the National Music Week Committee is 45
West 45th Street, New York City.

What Some City Recreation Departments
Are Doing

In Houston, Texas, an attractively bound col-
lection of Latin-American folk and popular songs,
mostly Mexican, was made and mimeographed for
use by Latin-American groups on the playgrounds.
Both the native words and English translations
are given, but not the music. Through occasional
use with other groups also, and through mere con—
tagion, several of these songs have become popu-
lar with them, too. And the Latin-American
groups are responsive also to United States songs.
In many of the other centers as well as in the
Latin-American ones, Mexican fiesta celebrations
are held each year, always presented, however, by
people from the latter centers. On these occa-

   

     

v:

 

,,  ,    .~.w~‘v“i‘«.;..,.¢-.~~3:.;i
Courtesy Brazilian Information Bureau

sions the music, songs and dances, costumes and
food are all in the Mexican tradition. The Christ-
mas season is especially rich in this festival-mak-
ing. To every folk festival held in the city, groups
from the Mexican centers bring favorite folk
dances of their people. Recently it was the ten-to-
twelve year old children of a Latin-American cen-
ter who presented a program of songs, dances,
crafts and a play, all of which were derived from
the pioneer period of the United States. A Pioneer
Program, it was called. A Mexican Tipica orches-
tra, sponsored by the WPA Music Project, is in
much demand by all the centers.

In Los Angeles, Latin—American music and
dances are a live part of the community culture
and are apparent thrOUghOUt the whole city rec-
reation program wherever music and dancing have
a place. An extensive program of children’s drama
calling frequently for incidental music contains
each year much that is related to Spanish and early
California tradition. About half of the five thou-
sand costumes that have accumulated in the Rec-
reation Department’s Costume Workshop are
Spanish or Mexican. But the Department’s several
adult choruses also include Spanish and Latin-
American music in their repertories; and whenever
there is a festival event, as occurs now and then
at the great Memorial Coliseum or elsewhere,
some of the folk culture of our neighboring coun-
tries is happily represented. There is a vital and
growing interchange of North and South or Cen-
tral American cultures in Los Angeles. And it is

8 MUSIC’S GOOD NEIGHBORLINESS IN THE AMERICAS

nurtured by much enjoyment, as any such inter-
change must be to be really effective. We remem-
ber a Play Festival held in near-by Pasadena’s Rose
Bowl in which folk groups of many countries, of
people living in Los Angeles and near-by cities,
danced. When a Mexican group danced Las
Chiapanecas with its two hand-claps at the cadence
of many a phrase, 40,000 spectators spontaneously
joined in these claps with accuracy and zest.

What Shall We Do?

The needs, hopes and prospects that come to
our minds when we contemplate the relation of
the Americas to the rest of the world of today
must make us want to help in them however we
can. So far as music is concerned, only a begin-
ning has been made. A lusty beginning it seems
when we remember how interest in certain kinds
of Latin—American music and dances has grown
among pebple in all our cities, mainly through the
dance-band versions by radio and the dance studio
and Hollywood versions of the dances. Wherever
people gather for high gaiety, in hotels, restau—
rants, ballrooms and theaters, the verve, grace and
captivating rhythms of the best of this music and
the dances are having their way. But; “the South
American way” is not all this kind of high gaiety
and feasting and whatever else is meant by the
entertainment people who must have coined that
phrase.

The sheer love of life, the fuller and keener
social responsiveness and the spontaneous expres-
siveness that we associate with the Latin-Ameri-
can temperament are certainly to be highly prized.
Perhaps the most valuable thing we could do,
valuable all around, would be to cultivate these
traits in ourselves, the inner states of being that
they are. But they are not for restaurants, thea-
ters or dance halls alone, or for amorous romance
alone. They arise also between parents and their
children and among the old, and in homes, fields
and all the other places of normal everyday liv-
ing. In music they 'are best represented in the
small group gathered about a guitar player or two,
not so well by the large group aroused and man-
aged by a song leader. There is a maximum of
what can be called “inner propulsion” in the typi-
cal Latin-American singing. And as we have said
earlier, there is a very large variety of songs and
other music and dances reflecting various racial
traits and many different loves and faiths and
other aspects of the life of these peoples. We all
have a long way to go to know these distant neigh-

bors of ours better, and there is still very little
musical material available here for us to go on.
However, the various agencies we have mentioned
are now hard at work to get more and learn more,
and anyone willing to help in bringing music’s
good neighborliness into inter-American relation-
ships should keep in touch with them, especially
with the Inter—American Music Center at the Pan
American Union. Even now a few further sug-
gestions can be made.

I. If, unlike Houston and Los Angeles, your
community has no Latin-Americans to share their
cultural resources with their neighbors:

(a) One or more capable ones might be “bor-
rowed” now and then from another community.
There will undoubtedly arise before long a num-
ber of such persons or of other Americans trained
in Latin-American music and dances who will
make it their profession to lead groups in these
activities as, for example, Mr. Lovett of Ameri-
can country dance fame has so long done in his
specialty, and as many a more localized person in
many a city has done with American and other
folk dances. The National Recreation Associa-
tion may be of help in this. I

(b) The phonograph can help greatly in the
learning of songs and in giving authentic playings
of dance music also. W'e have mentioned the
recordings of songs from the book Singing
America. The nine Latin-American ones of these
are on Victor records 27280 and 27281, each rec-
ord costing fifty cents. The Decca Album, No.
28, of Spanish and M Miran Dances ($2.25) con-
tains live records giving together the music of five
Spanish dances, four Mexican and one Portu-
guese, played by a Mexican orchestra. One of
the records, No. 2166, sold separately at 35 cents,
has the music for Las Chiapanecas, previously
mentioned. By the time this article appears, lists
of other records of songs and of other music, in—
cluding music for dances, will be available.

(c) Motion pictures can also help. Effort is
now being made to discover and make available
here authentic motion pictures, made in Central
and South American countries, of folk activities,
including singing and dancing, of the people of‘
those countries.

((1) Advantage should be taken of good broad-
casts of Latin-American songs and other music.
There will likely be a series of these before long
on national “hook-ups” that will be announced in
advance by this magazine or by other media.

(e) Any musically sensitive and imaginative

MUSIC’S GOOD NEIGHBORLINESS IN THE AMERICAS 9

person who has heard any Latin-American music
at all (and who has not?) could make a good
“go” of such songs as are in the collections that

we shall now describe. Consider how far and‘

winnineg Cielito Lindo has gone from its-native
heath. In the Botsford Collection of Folk Songs,
Vol. I published by G. Schirmer, Inc., New York
($1.50) are ten songs from Mexico, one from
Peru, and five other Latin-American songs un-
identified as to country. Only the English texts
are given within the music staves, but the native
texts are given below the song. Music Highways
and Byways, published by the Silver, Burdett Co.,
New York ($1.48, with a discount for schools)
contains two Argentine songs and one each from
Brazil, Chile, Cuba, Haiti, Martinique, Mexico,
Peru and Puerto Rico. Folk Songs from Mexico
and South America, compiled by Eleanor Hague
and published by the H. W. Gray Co., New
York, ($1.00) contains twelve songs unidentified
as to country. The contents and publisher of
Singing America are announced above. The Vocal
Edition containing all the melodies, choral parts
and words costs 25 cents, with a discount of 10%
for fifty or more copies and 20% for a hundred
or more; and the handsomely bound Edition with
Accompaniments costs $1.50, both editions 0b;
tainable from the National Recreation Association.

(f) The local public library should have the
best available collections of the songs available for
circulation, and it might have means for having
recordings also. The librarian should know of the
pamphlet of References on Latin American Music,
the Theater and the Dance for 1941 issued free by
the Division of Intellectual Cooperation of the
Pan-American Union in Washington. Even if the
library funds do not allow purchase of any of the
publications named in it, the pamphlet itself should
be in the library.

2. Since the ideal instrument for accompanying
Latin-American songs is the guitar, the traditional
Spanish six-stringed guitar; and since when played
properly for the purpose, this instrument almost
speaks Spanish; instruction in playing it should
be olfered wherever that is feasible. The best
“method” that we have seen for this very purpose
is in a concise booklet called Guitar Method with
Guitar Arrangements of S panish—American Folk
Songs. It was published in mimeographed form
by the Music Project of the WPA of New
Mexico. It is available thronghout that state and
we are making effort to have it made available
everywhere. Mrs. Helen Chandler Ryan is the

State Director of the Project. Its office is in
Santa Fé.

3. It might be possible to start one or more
Inter-American Clubs of people interested in mak-
ing a hobby of experiencing what they can of
Latin-American music and dances. Readings and
talks on Latin-American life and affairs might be
included, and also the collecting and playing of
representative phonograph records, the gathering
and showing of pictures and crafts, and the warm-
ing experience of a typical meal now and then.
Practice in Spanish or Portuguese conversation
could well be an additional activity, or it might
be a central one incidental to all the rest, an initial
reason for joining the club. Interest in learning
to speak one or both of the languages of the other
Americas is said to be inCreasing greatly. A lovely
and significant feature of the room’s decoration
might well be a set of the flags of the twenty-one
American republics. Annin and Company at 85
Fifth Avenue, New York, sell such a set, each
flag 4x6 inches, silk, and mounted on an ebonized
staff with gilded spear-points, at $3.00, or 15 cents
for each flag. A larger size, 12x18 inches, is made
of cotton and costs $3.50 per set of twenty-one.
With each order of a set of these larger hags, this
company gives free a copy of the music for piano
of excerpts from the national anthems of the
American Republics, adapted for use in flag cere-
monies and for other occasions.

4. Advantage of the interest'of already existing
folk singing and folk dancing groups might well
be taken. They would undoubtedly welcome the
learning of some Latin-American dances also. The
A. S. Barnes Company, New York City, pub-
lishes Mary E. Shambaugh’s Folk Festivals which
contains a section on Fiestas of the Spanish and
Mexicans in California, in which the music and
directions for four dances are given. ($3.00).
That company also publishes Legends and Dances
of Old M exico by Schwenender and Tibbels,
which contains the tunes and directions for twelve
dances. ($2.00). Regional Dances of Mexico by
Edith Johnston and published by Banks Upshaw
and Company of Dallas, Texas, contains not only
the music and descriptions of eight dances, but also
interesting information and illustrations as to their
backgrounds, a few short plays or skits of Mexi—
can life, and suggestions for a Pan-American pro-
gram and a party. A striking thing about a few
of the Mexican dances we have seen in the South-
west is their resemblance to the Viennese waltz
or to the Polish V arsoviana. Miss Aurora Lucero-

10 MUSIC’S GOOD NEIGHBORLINESS IN THE AMERICAS

W'hite, presumably of Santa Fé, has made a col-
lection of about a dozen such dances in Folk
Dances of the S panish—Colonials of New M exico.
(N0 publisher or price given in the book.) Music
and descriptions are given. In a very interesting
introducton she traces these dances to the period
directly after the Polish revolution when there
went to Mexico a number of Polish emigrés, and
the Austrian Maximilian and Carlotta, though
rulers for only a brief period, also brought influ-
ences on popular dancing. But the charming
dances in this book, despite their resemblances to
the Polish and Viennese and to French cotillions
and the German-Scotch Schottische, are warmly
imbued with Mexican or Spanish qualities also.
Mexican and N ew M exican Folk Dances by Mela
Sedillo, published by the University of New
Mexico Press at Albuquerque, is the only book in
which we found directions, though not the music
for the dance, Las Chiapanecas, to which we have
referred. It contains also Las Espuelas the music
for which is on the other side of Decca record
2166 already mentioned; and fifteen other dances
for most of which the music is given. Much re-
vealing information and illustrations as to authentic
costumes are given in the book, and also an espe—
cially detailed account and diagrams of the well—
known Jarabe Tapatio dance, the one in which the
girl dances within the hat brim. The complete
music for Las Chiapanecas is published separately
as a song, with English as well as Spanish words,
by the Willis Music Co., Cincnnati, Ohio. (50
cents.)

5. Choruses, orchestras and other organized
groups should be encouraged to learn and perform
some of the worthily representative music of
Latin—American composers. Many music lovers in
our country have already enjoyed some of the
music of Brazil’s Villa—Lobos, who is one of the
lmost outstanding composers of our time, and
Mexico’s Chavez, a distinguished composer as well
as conductor, each of them rooting his expres-
sions in the soil of his people’s folk music; and
there are other excellent composers of Whom we
shall surely be hearing. The community concert
series managers should likewise be encouraged to
bring some performances of such music by visit-
ing artists and groups. The best popular music of
Latin—Americans, much of which is heard through
the radio, and more of which is available on
phonograph records, should also be welcomed in
due measure. It should be more generally known
that the popular “Three O’clock in the Morning”

is by an Argentine, Julian Robledo; “Ay, Ay, Ay”
by a Chilean, Perez Freire ; “Perhdia” by a Puerto
Rican, Alberto Dominguez. We need to be-
come more fully aware of each of the twenty
countries as a distinct nation; and there is, of
course, additional reason for recognition of Puerto

Rica.
6. Advantage should be taken of the Inter-

American Music Week idea. Verbal support for
it has come from the President of the United
States and will undoubtedly come from all the
Governors and Mayors and many organizations.
It will have the prestige of being both a national
and international observance, and there will be
much newspaper and radio publicity for it. Best
of all, it is a very good and important idea, espe-
cially if it is used to bring about the development
of genuine lasting interest in Latin-American
music and people, and of continuing activities
integrated in the normal life of the community.

The Gist of It AM

As has been indicated many times herein, the
importance given to music in inter-American re-
lationships springs from the belief that in experi-
encing the music of a different people we come
close to them in spirit, we seem to feel like one of
them, and we enjoy feeling so, at the same time
finding in the music a welcome expression of our
own selves; or at least we find pleasure in the
music and are thereby made to feel friendly to-
ward its people. In economic affairs there tend to
be sharp divisions between countries, but when
seen in the light of the friendly attitude that music
has helped to develop, those affairs, with their need
for mutual adjustments between the countries or
between individual traders, are less likely to cause
such divisions. In affairs of hemisphere defense
and of the larger vision of the Cooperative Peace
this genuine friendliness, a thing of the heart or
whole life, not merely of the head, is the very
life—blood of every enterprise.

But can the music of other countries affect all
of us so fully and benehcently? People differ
very much in the range of their responsiveness to
music as to other things. Some of us like only a
certain few kinds of music, perhaps only one kind,
and like it well or think we do, but are left cold,
if not repelled, by any other kind. We are like
that with respect to people also. Many of us wel-
come in people only those traits and behaviors to
which we are accustomed. Differences 'turn us

(Continued ‘0” page 50)

 

Playlots at $50 Each

AST SPRING there were many people in Phila-
delphia who rubbed their eyes when they
read in a local paper of a campaign to ex—

pand the play facilities of the city by developing
a new kind of playground called a “playlot.” These
playlots, it was announced, could be developed
for the small sum of $50 per unit, and citizens or
organizations were to be given the privilege of
contributing that sum, which would make it pos-
sible for a new safe play area to be created in
neighborhoods where playgrounds did not exist.

There was an immediate response. The honor

roll of donors grew longer each day. Not content
with contributing only one unit, several individuals
and organizations donated funds for four or five

 

«  _ i  By
' ~ C. H. ENGLISH
' Executive

Secretary
Playground and
Recreation
Association of

Philadelphia

Residents in a
number of Philadel-
phia's playgrounds
rolled up their
sleeves and went
to work with a ven-
g'eance when they
learned help was to
be had in securing
the playgrounds
they had wanted
5 o m a n y y e a rs

l

7' by hdelph Irer

 

playlots. The goal, as announced by the Philadel-
phia Inquirer which sponsored the campaign, was
twenty-five playgrounds. This objective was
reached in five days, and still checks came in. On
the twelfth day of the campaign the paper an-
nounced that contributions had provided for over
fifty playlots and that no more could be accepted.
“The goal had been doubled—the most successful
campaign in years.” In spite of the announcement
checks continued to arrive, the final number being
fifty—four and the total amount collected $2,700.

Who started this amazing idea? What is a play-
lot and how could one be equipped and supervised
for $50?

A playlot is a leased vacant property varying in
size from 45’ by 60’ to a full city block and dedi-
cated to play with leadership during the summer
season. Fifty dollars provided funds for a mini-
mum of equipment, supplies, and insurance.

11

12 PLAYLOTS AT $50 EACH

A Cooperative Undertaking

The plan was initiated by the Playground and
Recreation Association, but several “partners” co-
operated to make the plan successful:

The Bureau of Recreation, Department of Wel-
fare—Supervision and training of leaders.

VVPA—Assignment of play leaders.

Department of Public Assistance (Relief) -—-As-
signment of caretakers and squads of men to
prepare areas.

NYA—Manufacture of equipment and assign-
ment of junior play leaders.

Philadelphia I nquirer—Publicity and recipient of
contributions.

Playground and Recreation Association—Business
management, i.e., execution of leases, insurance,
purchase of supplies and equipment, inspection
and selection of properties. General direction of
the plan.

By pooling the resources of these six partners,
and with the use of contributed funds, it was pos-
sible to develop a successfully directed play pro-
gram for neglected children of the city.

Development of the Plan

During the publicity campaign it was announced
that the Playground and Recreation Association
would be glad to hear from property owners who
would be willing to lease for three months their
vacant property for a playlot, and that such leases
would be accepted by the Association which would
insure against liability and pay a nominal fee
of $1.00. It was made plain that remission of
taxes was not possible under these short-term
leases.

The daily news story encouraged neighborhoods
to make application for playlots. In each case they
were asked to report on the size and location of
the lot, the name of the owner, and the distance
to the nearest established playground.

Over two hundred properties were inspected and
listed. Selection of areas was made following a
study as to suitability of lot, the real need for
service, and the assurance of neighborhood cooper-
ation. The next step was to secure the leases. A
simple form was developed by the Association’s
Counsel. It was not difficult to secure the owners’
consent if only they could be discovered. The
length of time consumed in tracking down own-
ership and carrying through the necessary' negotia-
tions was a major reason why only thirty-eight
playlots were operated during the summer.

In Pennsylvania, the state requires that persons
receiving relief shall render service to public
agencies when called upon to do so. Through the
Bureau of Recreation, squads of relief men, called
DPA workers, were assigned to grade and make
presentable the vacant lots selected. Tools were
provided by the Bureau. Not a single truck was
used to haul away the debris, although in many
cases the lots were in terrible condition. The
simple, but effective, method employed was to dig
large enough holes to bury the debris, using the
surplus dirt for resurfacing.

While this aspect of the plan was progressing,
NYA was asked to build the simple equipment,
the material being purchased from the $50 fund.
From the NYA shops the following were made

for each unit:

2 Tables and 4 Benches (painted green)

2 Volleyball posts

4 Sand Court boards

1 Good-sized sign indicating the sponsor’s name, the
cooperating agencies, and a notice—“Not responsi-
Ible for accidents.”

~The Inquirer gave the campaign a prominent
place in the paper and an unusual amount of
space. While seemingly everyone was reading
about the playlots, business firms were visited re-
garding supplies and materials. They were not
asked for contributions, but were requested to sell
at cost. It was truly amazing how much could be
purchased with $50 on that price level. No one
lost money, and everyone gained. One of the un-
usual savings was to secure a blanket insurance
coverage for $5,000/$Io,000 at $2.65 per unit.

Leaders Assigned

Arrangements were made with WPA to assign
their leaders to the projectAthree weeks in advance
of the opening of the playlots. For two weeks they
were sent to the playgrounds directed by the city
Bureau of Recreation where they received ex-
perience and guidance from professional workers.
The remaining week was devoted to intensive
training as a group. Two NYA girls were as-
signed to each playlot as assistants. The season
opened July Ist and continued to Labor Day.

One of the first tasks before the leaders was to
complete, if need be, the organization of a neigh-
borhood sponsoring committee. Eighteen com-
mittees were very active and are still genuinely
interested. As would be expected, these eighteen
neighborhoods were the communities that had re-
quested playlots, and a number had raised the $50
required. Other locations were decided upon

PLAYLOTS AT $50 EACH 13

without the expressed wish of the neighborhood
and the funds provided by a donor unknown to
them. While the service was appreciated by these
neighbors, sponsor relationship in most cases was
not successful. Perhaps another season will bring
cooperation from these groups, especially if the
leaders assigned are skilled in organization.

Use of Surplus Funds

To have surplus funds is indeed a unique sit-
uation. Since only thirty-eight playlots could be
developed, we faced the problem of selecting from
the fifty—four contributing sponsors who would be
assigned a playlot. There were several individuals
and firms who contributed more than $50. To
these we assigned just one playlot. Playlots were
also approved for every neighborhood that had
raised funds locally. But not all our friends could
be assigned playlots. Finally, it was discovered
there was on hand a balance of $860.00 to be re-
turned to the donors. We confess a great re-
luctance at returning this money and not putting
it to needed use. It was worth trying, at any rate,
to see if they would accept an alternate service for
these additional funds. Accordingly, Directors of
the Association made personal calls on these
friends presenting the three following substitute

services :

1. To provide milk for undernourished children at the

low “school rate” per bottle.
2. To send to camp children under twelve years of age

selected from our very poor districts.
3. To contribute toward the maintenance of an inter—
esting playhouse in the Kensington district.

The Directors did such a good job that all the
donors gladly assigned their contributions to the
above services and shared in sending II 5 children
to camp for a total of 1,150 camp days, and pro-
vided 16,870 bottles of milk for needy youngsters.

How the Money Was Expended

The following items were supplied to each play-
lot at the beginning of the season:

1 Sign . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ .64
2 Tables (8’x3’), 4 Benches (8'x1’),

and 2 Volleyball Posts . . . . . . . . . . .. 9.03
4 Boards for Sand Court (12’x14’)

and 4 tons of Sand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.05

1 Large Suit Case for supplies . . . . . .. 3.50

1 First Aid Kit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .62

1 Volley Ball and Net . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3.72

2 Soft_Balls and 1 Bat . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2.01

Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.65

Cartage of supplies and equipment
to storage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.33

Miscellaneous Items . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2.85
300 Membership Buttons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.75
Games and Handcraft supplies... .. 10.12
$47.27

The following play materials were supplied in'

the suit cases at the beginning of the season:

Boxes of crayons Tissue paper
Sets of checkers and boards Construction paper

Rubber quoit set Brown wrapping paper
Sand play set Print paper

Small rubber ball Coloring books

Large rubber ball Pencils

Scissors Jacks and balls

Pipe cleaners Hoot Nanny

Crepe paper Shellac and brushes

Large and small sand pails Paste

For each playlot we supplied three hundred 1%
inch membership buttons with the name of the
contributing sponsor and the agencies responsible
for the direction of the playlot.

Some Left Over

The total expenditure, it should be noted, was
only $47.27 per playlot, leaving an unexpended
balance of $2.73. This was returned to the donor
with a complete accounting and report of pro-
gram and attendance. The reaction of the con-
tributors in receiving an unexpected unexpended
balance was interesting. One donor wrote: “I
don’t see how all this could be done for less than
$50. My word, you should be a business man and
not a social worker!” Another wrote: “The re-
ceipt of your report and check was the greatest
surprise I have experienced in a decade. The
check for an unexpended balance got me. I did
not expect it and must commend you on your
social, as well as business, ability. These two are
not always combined so satisfactorily. Count on
me for another season.”

The plan not to spend all of the $50 and to
return a small balance was deliberate. We would
have sent back nine cents should that have been
the balance. We had learned from other experi-
ences that such a procedure creates confidence. It
is an excellent method of securing continuous in-
terest and support for future services. Besides, it
it honest. Practically all the letters received indi—
cated a desire to participate again. In fact, live
playlots for the second season have been assured.

Applied Psychology

Children, and most adults, vision a playground
as having swings, slides, wading pool, and other
equipment. The very meager equipment provided

(Continued on page 60)

A Children’s May Carnival

If you are making plans for a May
Carnival,why not have it circus style?

ALF OF THE FUN for
H youngsters in a chil-

dren’s May carnival,
circus style, is the opening
parade held in the early
afternoon. The parade of-
fers a chance to make
many unique animals and
birds in the arts and "crafts
club prior to the carnival.
Cloth sacks, oilcloth, and
scrap lumber can be used,
and the rag bag might be consulted for further
materials.

Newspapers, bits of wire, and paint once made
up the entire animal section of one of our best
carnival parades. Bale and chicken wire “under-
pinnings” and newspapers pasted over the desired
shapes result in interesting animals that can be
painted with water colors, kalsomine, decorator
powders, and left-over house paint.

Not to be outdone by the animals and goofy
birds are the other brilliantly costumed paraders.
Their costumes, usually of paper cambric, might
represent different nationalities. The clown suits
are also made in this order. A drum corps or
other marching units of local organizations will
act as “fillers” and will add color to the parade.

The line of march should be in a circuit away
from and back to the carnival grounds or hall.
The children putting on the carnival should not
have to walk very far in the parade, for in the
circus style carnival the parade merely opens the
festivities. It can easily be seen that the circus
style carnival is preferable,
as the children are already in
costume—making it easy to
present a show immediately
after the parade. Each cos-
tumed child should follow
up from the parade into
some stunt, song, drama, or

The Carnival Grounds

A hall may be used for
the carnival as well as a
playground. Both are used

14

By LOUISE E. THOMPSON

Miss Thompson has had sixteen years of ex-
perience in recreation work with girls and has
also been active in directing dramatic activi-
ties. At the present time she is Director.
Recreation Leaders' Training. Work Proiects
Administration. in Fresno County. California.

"Spring seems to belong peculiarly to the
young. It is as if the children were poised
and eager to go out and meet their kin-
dred spirits—early blossoms. swelling leaf
buds. returning songbirds. and all the shy.
new-born woodland creatures. Daily. even
in city yards and streets. there are excit-
ing discoveries and welcome renewals: the
skit. first hurdy-gurdy. the friendly balloon man.
the flower vender's familiar call. What se-
cret fraternity sets the date and rallies
hoops. marbles. and iackstones from winter
concealment. and chalks cabalistic patterns
on every smooth pavement?"——Annie E.

Moore in Children’s Religion, April, |94| .

even more successfully
when combined. The booth
activities do not then inter-
fere with the show, and
printed programs will in—
form visitors of the time
for each part of the car-
nival. All but the candy or
ice cream booths may be
open or not, as desired,
during the performance.

If a hall alone is to be
used, booths should be set around the outer edge
to make place for the audience during the per-
formance. Girls may sell candy between acts if
desired, and all booths should be closed when the
show begins.

In a case where only grounds are available,
booths are set up around the outskirts, and con-
tinuous or intermittent shows may be produced
on a raised dais in a central spot.

Where both hall and grounds are used, streets
between the outside booths will facilitate move-
ment among the crowd.

It is highly important that the carnival grounds
or hall be well lighted.

Decorations

“This is the time of the gladsome May,” and
this is the time, too, when we can indulge our-
selves in brilliant color schemes. But, let it be
remembered, the stage decorations should be on
the pastel side to show off the brilliance of the
costuming. At this time of the year blossoms are
available, and they make
ideal coloring against green
tree backgrounds (painted
or real) to show up the par-
ticipants. Blossoms can be
made and wired or tied to
limbs and twigs.

At a carnival the booths
only have the right to vie in
color with the costumes, for
the booths do not detract
from the players.

Are you having an Indian
dinner of beans and corn

A CHILDREN’S MAY CARNIVAL 15

(succotash) with corn bread or brown bread and
greens salad? Then by all means a Wigwam should
be the ticket booth or the entrance to the dining
hall. “Indian” boys and girls may serve the din—
ner, fill glasses of water, or see that people are
seated by the numbers on their tickets. (Either
colored tickets may be made for certain tables, or
the seating may be carried out according to num—
bers. This saves much trouble and time.) '

Booths

Try to have unique as well as attractive booths
at the carnival. It is worth while from the selling
angle and will contribute to the beauty of the whole.

Do not permit a booth to undersell or to offer
cheap articles that will fool the customer. Such
procedure may work at a commercial carnival
where barkers always over-exaggerate and never
make their aim, but never at a dignified commu-
nity project. Articles in the “fish pond” may be
white elephants, but here people really pay to be
surprised.

Games of skill are fine for a booth, as they are
right in line with the main reason for having a
carnival—a carnival of recreational value. With
any other motive in mind you are lost, unless, of
course, you expect to go into the carnival business!
It is better to say, “Oh well,
we didn’t make-much money,
but everyone had a
good time,” than,
“We made more
money than we
planned on those
cheap trinkets.” The
idea behind the car-
nival may be to buy
new gym suits, but
the whole plan
should be based on
giving the visitors a
“perfectly swell
time.” This in itself
pays the dividends.

People do not go
to carnivals to spend
money although
they expect to. The
knack is in know—
ing how to give
them so much en—
joyment that they do
not mind spending.

Have you ever considered how important
a clown is to the success of a circus?

 

Courtesy National Cash Register Company

The “fish pond” booth may be a painted screen
decorated with an ocean scene or a fish bowl. The
“fish” are behind the screen. Bamboo or willow
poles with string lines and pin hooks may be used
for the fishing. The attendant sitting behind the
screen puts a present on the hook when the line is
thrown in.

Six good booths where articles are sold outright
and as many skill games make a well balanced
small town carnival. Too many booths for the
visitors expected often leave the committee with
articles unsold, food not used, and a general
headache.

If the occasion is late evening or night, a din—
ner may be served; tickets may be sold to advan-
tage prior to the carnival.

An arts and crafts exhibit, not too large, is the
outlet of expression for those children who can-
not participate in the show. With the aid of an
adult leader they may take care of the exhibit and
explain the display to interested visitors.

Nature exhibits are timely in May. Flower ar-
rangements, mineral and stamp collections add color
and give each child a definite part in the carnival.

Carnival Shows

Clowns. Clowns should be naturally funny or
tumbly. Mat stunts and rope
tricks are as much a part of
the carnival clown’s
work as looking
funny. In any case,
have a clown, if he
only dresses up and
walks about. Songs
and musical instru—
ments of the comb
and tissue variety
may be added to his
performance.Dress-
ing the kitchen or-
chestra in clown
suits helps them
give a better per-
formance and con-
tributes to carnival
atmosphere.

Dancers. The
Maypole dance is
the outstanding
event of the May

(Continued on
page 52)

Attractive, Functional, and Economical—

LEASING TO THE EYE, functional in design,  e P I  r0 u n d B U i I d i n g

P and easy on the budget—these attri—
butes are always present in the ideal

playground building, but it is sometimes dif-

ficult to include all three in planning a structure.

The Park Board of Pittsfield, Massachu-

setts, has attained these objectives in three recently
constructed buildings. Two are playground shel-
ters, and the third is a playfield field house. From
the photographs on the opposite page, it will be
seen that all three of the buildings are of brick
construction with asbestos shingle roofs.

Shelter A has been built at Springside Park
playground in a central location to serve the entire
area. It consists of a small activities room, toilet
facilities for boys and girls, and storage and heater
room. The latter room can also be used for a
director’s office as the heater takes up only a small
amount of space.

Floors are concrete, and the interior of all of
the rooms is of glazed brick. This simplifies
maintenance, since the whole building can be
flushed out with a hose when necessary.

Shelter A serves a dual purpose. As it is only
a few feet from the natural wading pool that is
used for skating in the winter, the building be—
comes a skating shelter during the skating season.
A portable wooden floor is used to protect the
concrete from the sharp edges of the skates.

Shelter B is a small structure designed primarily
to provide the necessary toilet facilities and a
director’s office. This building, located in Clapp
Park, is also constructed of brick with asbestos
shingles and a glazed brick interior.

One of the interesting features about these
shelters is the cost of con-
struction. Both were built
under general contract. The
Springside building cost
$5,510 and the Clapp struc-
ture $2,532.

Deming Field, the largest
and most highly developed
playfield in Pittsfield, is di-
vided into two sections. A
fee can be charged for ad-
mission to the activities con-
ducted in one section. The

16

Too little attention has been given in
the past to the design and construction
of playground buildings. and also to
their proper location. Many playgrounds
are without any buildingsI while others
have structures which do not adequately
meet present standards. It is the hope
of the Association that the three build-
ings shown here will have suggestions to
offer communities faced with the prob-
lem of erecting buildings which are at-
tractive and serviceable. and at the same
time relatively inexpensive to construct.

By P. ELLWOOD ALLEN

Specialist in Recreation Areas and Facilities
National Recreation Association

other section is a playfield for general public use.
Because of the division of this area the field house
was located midway between the two sections and
was so designed that the toilet facilities could be
accessible to all. (A study of the plan for Building
C will reveal how this has been made possible.)
The building provides public toilet facilities for
men and women, two team rooms each with
separate shower and toilet, an office and director’s
room, and a large boiler and service room.

Here again it is interesting to note that this
building, sixty—nine feet long by twenty—two feet
Wide, cost only $12,617 under general contract.
It is constructed of the same materials used in
building the two shelter houses.

Many communities are finding it necessary to
replace inadequate, incorrectly located playground
structures or to provide buildings on playgrounds
which have no form of shelter. A large number
of these municipalities are faced with the problem
of constructing permanent, attractive and func-
tional playground buildings at a cost that would
not be prohibitive. As shown by the structures
described here, the Pittsfield Park Board has taken
an important step toward solving this perplexing
problem.

NOTE: The National Rec-
reation Association will be
very glad to receive photo-
graphs and plans of shelter
houses and playground build-
ings recently constructed
about which information may
not yet have been received
at- headquarters. There are
always requests for material
of this type, and the plans on
file must be up to date.

  

zo'-u"‘

d M‘A VANCE: '- QPCHITCCT ‘
piTTbF’thD ' Mbe'

 

Adventuring in Folkways

N MAY 1, 2, and 3, in

Washington, DC, the N a-

tional Folk Festival Asso-
ciation will hold its eighth annual three-day get—
together of traditional folk songs, dances, ballads,
ceremonials, and stories which have grown out of
a homespun philosophy deep-rooted in the heart of
America.

The reason for the festival can best be given in
the words of Sarah Gertrude Knott when she be-
gan the venture in 1933. Said Miss Knott, “If
people like to sing, dance and act why not a na-
tional forum for their talents? These folk don’t
have much time to stop and appraise or analyze
their cultural advance; they sing and dance for the
very joy of singing and dancing. I never hear a
folk festival today, after direct-
ing scores of big and little ones,
that I do not recall with
joy the prophetic words
of Walt Whitman, ‘I
hear America singing.’ ”

Incidentally, back of
this smooth—running
spectacle stands an un-
derstanding, tireless,
hardworking individual
--—Sarah Gertrude Knott,
founder and director of
the National Folk Festi-
val Association, assisted
by Major M.  Pick-
ering, business manager
of the Association. Ma-
jor Pickering has been
with the Folk Festival
Association since 1933
when Miss Knott began
the undertaking of
forming a Folk Festival
Association. Sparing
neither time nor effort,
Miss Knott has worked
diligently for the past
eight years to bring to
her audiences each year
the hnest of folk talent
this country has to offer.
This annual festival

18

By HELEN G. SOMMER

Temple. Pennsylvania

Acadian dancers from Louisiana
play their part in the testival

 

contains the best from each re-
gional festival. Miss Knott has
gone into every state seeking for
these folk eXpressions and encouraging the people
to keep alive their fine old traditions. Last year
there were six hundred performers from twenty-
seven states and Hawaii. As this cavalcade of
American folk lore passes across the stage in Con-
stitution Hall we are impressed by the fact that it
is not a revival but a survival of folk art. Therein
lies the secret of its success and the ever-growing
interest in the movement.

Some ask, “What is folk lore?” It is all the
stories people tell, the songs they sing, the dances
they do—to entertain themselves. In this last
phrase, “to entertain themselves,” we have found
the reason why'so much folk ma-
terial has remained a simple, nat-
ural and unassuming
expression of the peo-
ple. Country folk learn
these songs, dances and
stories from their par-
ents, who in turn learn-
ed them from their par-
ents. They are so old
that no one knows quite
who made them up in
the beginning. People in
all parts of the country
have different kinds of
folk lore, depending
upon where they live,
what they do for a liv-
ing, and the type of
people they are.

After seven years’ ex-
perience and much en-
couragement from Miss
Knott, regional festivals
are being held all over
the country prior to the
National Festival in
Washington. This has
been responsible for a
great cultural advance
and supplies an ever
growing need in leisure-
time pursuits. In recent

ADVENTURING IN FOLKWA ys

years there has been an increasing interest in folk
art. Recreation leaders all over the country are
finding in it a wealth of material for their pro-
grams. They have found this work presents one
of the most worth while low-cost recreational ac—
tivities developed within recent years. Teachers
of physical education and directors of recreation

are recognizing the place our own folk dances,'

music and songs can play in recreation arid educa-
tion. Co-recreation, of which we hear so much
today, can be found at its best where the folk
gather to sing, dance and tell their stories. Eliza-
beth Burchenal has said that folk dancing was the
original co-recreation.

Where leaders have set up certain standards for
regional festivals and have faithfully followed
them success has resulted, but when leaders were
lax and did not adhere to genuine traditions the
plans have fallen through. Recreation leaders have
found that they must approach the study of' folk
culture with a sympathetic understanding and ap-
preciation of the background of these traditions,
and present the results of their study in as digni-
fied a manner as possible in order to preserve the
charm of these expressions. In the lovely old
songs, dances, and myths used by the pioneers,
who after a hard day needed to relax, we find mir-
rOred all their hopes, aspirations, trials and tribu-
lations. We get a deeper insight into their philo-
sophic acceptance of success and reverses.

The most inspiring and relaxing forms of rec-
reation are the simpler ones, needing little, if any,
equipment. We find these necessary requirements
in folk dances and songs which need no large
auditorium, no expensive orchestra. Take an old
barn, a couple of fiddlers, throw in a harmonica
player and you have the makings of as pleasant a
time as you could wish! Our life today is so
complex we need some form of simple dignified
recreation. What better place than where the folk
tunes are the order of the day?

"Until recent times we looked to Europe for our
cultural and economic patterns. At last we are
opening our eyes to the necessity for develop-
ing relations with nations in this hemisphere to
whom we are bound by ties stronger than mere
geography. . . . Since there is at present a
general stirring of interest in American folk lore,
let us take advantage of the situation and make
organized efforts to preserve our cultural heri-

tage as we are trying to preserve our forests.
land and wildlife."-—Satab Gertrude Knott.

 

Lumberiack minstrels from Michigan
enioying a story-swapping contest!

For those in the recreation field the festival
provides an excellent opportunity to get first hand
information concerning folk culture, for after each
performance through a social hour arranged by
the Folk Festival Association staff they may meet
and talk with the participants. Two features of
the festival most helpful to recreation workers are
the morning conferences and the exhibit held in
connection with the Festival each year. In the
conferences opportunity is given for discussion,
led by the finest leaders in folk lore, of the songs,
dances, stories and costumes. The exhibit is a
source of much help to those staging regional fes-
tivals. Not an end in itself, it forms an important
part in this interpretation of the background of
our folk expressions. Every director of a regional
festival should plan to include an exhibit if it is
at all possible. Those attending the festival should
without fail attend the morning conferences, see
the exhibit, and plan to attend at least one of the
social hours after the evening performances.

Men, women and children come each year solely
for the honor of presenting their particular brand

(Continued on page 59)

Ninety Minutes a Week?

HORTLY AFTER the program

for voluntary training of

selected candidates in the
Naval Reserve was initiated in
June 1940, the Bureau of
Navigation directed the estab-
lishment of a Naval Reserve
M idshipman’s School at North—
western University, Chicago
campus. Physically qualified
young men between the ages of 19 and 26, who
are citizens of the United States and have at least
two years of college credit from accredited schools,
are entitled to volunteer their services. Men who
successfully pass all requirements are sent for
training duty as apprentice seamen aboard a bat—
tleship or cruiser for one month. At the end of
this period these men are sent to school where they
are enrolled as midshipmen. One of these schools
is located at Northwestern University, the others
aboard the USS Illinois in New York Harbor,
' and at Annapolis.

For ninety supercharged days midshipmen are
instructed in comprehensive courses in navigation.
seamanship, and ordnance and gunnery. With the
successful completion of these subjects they are
commissioned as Ensigns in the Naval Reserve.
The United States Government plans to commis—
sion 5,000 men by September 1941.

At Northwestern there are nine hundred mid—
shipmen enrolled in the
current course. They
use facilities of the Chi-
cago campus and the
Passavant Hospital. As
far as is possible their
life simulates that aboard
ship. Naval terms and
customs are adopted in
all practical instances.
Floors are known as
“decks.” stairs as “lad—
ders,” food as “chow.”
Midshipmen turn to at
reveille at 6:30, and
taps is sounded at 10:30.
Add to that the fact
that the future officers
are attempting to learn

20

By R. G. BREEDEN

It's not so much a question of the
amount of time available as the way
it's organized. and at the Naval Re-
serve Midshipmen's School at North-
western University, ChicagoI they're
using to advantage every minute of
the hour and a halt set aside each
week for the recreation program.

 

in three months what Annapo-
lis and ROTC graduates learn
in four years (minus the en-
gineering training), and it is
easy to imagine the strain that
each individual goes through,
and to appreciate the impor—
tance of having a well—organ—
ized recreation program.

In an effort to meet the need,
Commanding Officer, Captain B. B. Wygant has
set aside an hour and one half each Wednesday
afternoon for organized athletic exercise. During
their liberty hours on week days from 4 :30 to 5.45
P. M. (1630 to I 745 naval time) midshipmen also
have an opportunity to relax; and from Saturday
noon until Sunday evening, all men are at liberty.

Facilities Available

we have been fortunate in having in the im-
mediate neighborhood of the campus a number of
athletic facilities of which the. midshipmen can
take advantage. Within a radius of three blocks
there is the Lawson Y.M.C.A. with all types of
athletic equipment, but naturally limited to the
number it can accommodate. The 122nd National
Guard Field Artillery Armory has a spacious floor
for touch football. A short distance from this is
the new Abbott Hall dormitory, in which four
hundred men are quartered, with an exercise room
in the basement, two
squash courts, and sev-
eral bowling alleys. Be-
hind Abbott Hall is the
Arena, the home of the
Chicago Blackhawks f or
several years. There is
a spacious artificially
flooded skating rink,
and twenty—four bowl-
ing alleys on this site.
The Tower Town Club
in which five hundred
midshipmen are quar—
tered has facilities for
fencing, boxing, basket—
ball, and bowling.

In these five buildings

(Continued on page 61)

Playing
for a
Stronger

America

ITH THE NATIONAL emergency placing in-
creased strains on American life, this coun-

try is at last awakening fully to the value of
physical fitness for all the people.

Are American young men, particularly those of
ages 21 to 35 on whom the greatest burden of mili-
tary preparation will fall, physically fit for the
tasks ahead? Some experts say, “Yes.” Others,
“N 0.”

“American youth is physically, morally, and vo—
cationally below the par necessary for a first class
Army force," Brigadier-General E. L. Gruber,
commandant of Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, as-
serted recently in a newspaper dispatch. But in
California, draft officials are finding it necessary
to reject only about three out of every fifty men
for physical deficiencies, early reports Show, al-
though all over the country army men expect they
111ight have to reject some forty per cent of the
men examined when called up for draft induction.

On the whole, the records indicate that Ameri-
can men coming into the army are an average of
two inches taller and fifteen pounds heavier than
in 1917, and that the health level of the nation has
risen considerably in the past two and one-half
decades.

Regardless of who has the last word in this
argument, one thing is obvious: America has be-
come conscious of its physical fitness (or lack of
it). There is a movement getting under way to

 

By SAMUEL L. FRIEDMAN

Playground and Recreation Department
Los AngelesI California

raise the entire level of physical condition in the
nation. This is the cue for public recreation to
enter the picture and demonstrate its worth to the
country.

When the present draft law was being consid-
ered, the Army general staff recommended an
eighteen month training period to bring men to
the peak of efficiency, but Congress reduced this
period to one year.

Obviously the shorter and more intensive period
of military training places added importance on
good physical condition, and such preliminary de-
velopment as men may receive before they are
inducted into the military service becomes a na-
tional defense asset. Public playgrounds and rec-
reation programs, therefore, have already con-
tributed immeasurably to national preparedness
through their regular activities of which thousands
of young men of military age have had the benefit.

In addition, there are millions of people who
have had the advantages of healthful outdoor
sports and games, swimming, camping, and other
pursuits through the facilities of the recreation
centers, and this background will stand them in

21

22 PLAYING FOR A STRONGER AMERICA

good stead in the country’s present period of
duress. The mental balance, harmony, sense of
social cooperation, and other psychological bene-
fits of constructive play will also help these peo-
' ple to withstand the added strains of an emer-
gency situation.

Certainly the regular program of recreation
centers should be continued. But it is also well for
them to adapt their program further to the service
of the nation'by incorporating additional features
even more directly allied with the country’s present
needs. Sensitive to the changes going on about
them, playgrounds must go with the tide, keeping
- abreast of changing currents of public interest and
need. That is good public relations as well as good
programming.

Physical Training Clubs

One of the newer ideas which has attracted
nation-wide attention is the plan originated by the
Los Angeles Playground and Recreation Depart-
ment to establish special physical training clubs
for men who are registered for the draft.

The United States Selective Service has regis—
tered some seventeen million young men for po-
tential call for military training. More than
200,000 of them are in Los Angeles. To these
draft—card holders the Department decided to offer
a unique program. Free physical training clubs
were to be established at '
municipal recreation centers
throughout the city. These
groups would
.be open to any
man who could
present his
draft registra-
tion card. They
were to meet in
the evenings,
once or twice a
week, the most
convenient
dates to be se-
lected by the
participants.
They were to
offer exercises,
g y m n a s t i c
m a r c h i n g,
group games,
and informal
sports, all de-

One of the many games and sports enjoyed
in the classes conducted by the Los Angeles
Playground and Recreation Department

 

signed to help the men “toughen up” physically,
acquire greater confidence, overcome the kind of
ineptitude which lands rookie soldiers on the awk-
ward squad, and deve10p an esprit de corps which
would mentally prepare them for better service—
either in military or civilian life.

The general purpose of the program was non—
military and primarily recreational in character.
“Get fit and have fun doing so” was the expres-
sion most frequently used to describe the objective.

The plan immediately won the warm sympathy
and cooperation of Selective Service oflicials.
Major E. J. Plato, Selective Service Coordinator
for Southern California, joined with George
Hjelte, Superintendent of the Los Angeles Play-
ground and Recreation Department, in making the
first press announcement of the impending pro-
gram. Dr. C. A. Dykstra, national director of the
Selective Service System, wrote fr0m WaShing—
ton, D. C.: “I am glad that Los Angeles is plow-
ing a new furrow which Selective Service and the
Army itself can look at and, to change the figure,
use as a guinea pig. The idea runs exactly along
the line of one which has been revolving in my
own mind.” '

A fanfare of newspaper and radio publicity

‘helped to launch the .program in Los Angeles.

Posters were placed about the city and put up in
street cars and busses. Leaflets were distributed
through many sources.Local
draft boards’ agreed to post
placards and distribute liter-
ature about the
plan. Industries
were contacted
and permitted
speakers to ad-
dress their em-
ployees. They
c o o p e r a t e d
further by put-
ting up notices
on bulletin
boards and dis-
tributing an-
nouncements
about the pro-
gram. Every-
where people
started to talk
about the idea,
and many a man
who hadn’t had

PLAYING FOR A STRONGER AMERICA 23

any real exercise in years began to think seriously
about correcting his sagging waistline, caved-in
chest, or flabby arm and leg muscles.

Registration for the physical fitness classes
began soon afterward. In a short time thirty-two
clubs were functioning at Los Angeles recreation
centers. Obvious at once was the fact that a great
number of the participants were newcomers to the
playgrounds. The classes were not duplicating the
work of sports leagues or other activities, whose
participants naturally felt less need for condition-
ing than men who had been getting little or no
exercise. Many of the men had never taken any
regular part in a sport or physical recreation ac-
tivity. Certainly such individuals really needed
some training!

From the beginning, the Recreation Depart-
ment was resolved to maintain its standards and
ideals of recreational service. Regimentation of
the men was studiously avoided. The non-com-
pulsory character of the classes was constantly
emphasized, especially when an occasional man
came in to register with a somewhat bewildered
eXpression, asking, “Do I have to join one of these
classes because I’m registered for the draft?” To
encourage continuity in participation, the men
were advised that those who maintained a steady
attendance record over a period of twelve weeks
would receive awards in the form of “physical
fitness certificates.”

Consistent with the democratic idea pervading
all recreation center grOUps, the draftee clubs were
organized on a self-governing basis, each electing
its own captain and committees for the planning
of extracurricular events, such as hikes, dances,
field meets, or programs in combination with other
training clubs.

Although open to the participation of all draft
registrants, whether expecting an early call for
military service or not, the training clubs from the
beginning attracted a majority of men who antici-
pated early induction into a training camp, the
“Class IA” men. The value of these clubs to the
men has since been demonstrated in several known
instances where “graduates” of the playground
training groups were immediately named corpor-
als upon arriving at army camps. Decidedly their
physical condition, knowledge of the rudiments of
marching, and better ability to handle themselves
with other men, gave them an “edge” over others
when they started training.

Now the program is receiving wider acceptance
for its serious and practical functions, over and

above the pure recreation which its continues to
provide. Othere cities are beginning to take it up,
and inquiries about it pour in regularly—from
Chicago; New York; Durham, North Carolina—
communities everywhere. The National Recrea-
tion Association is helping to provide the informa-
tion requested by distributing a supply of leaflets
describing the plan furnished by the Los Angeles
Playground and Recreation Department.

In benefiting a large number of men who have
came to the municipal playgrounds for the train-
ing clubs, the program has incidentally proved of
great help to the playground directors themselves.
One of its effects was to stimulate the directors'
interest in in—service training in order to refresh
their knowledge of leadership activities for men’s
groups. Since the plan was launched in Los An-
geles, there has been a weekly class for directors
in the technique of leadership of the training clubs.
The class has been regularly attended by virtually
every director, on his own time.

Girls and women have also been awakened by
the nation-wide emergency to a desire to contri-
bute their share to the preparedness program, and
the municipal playgrounds of Los Angeles are en-
deavoring to meet this demand. With the coopera-
tion of the American Red Cross, classes are being
offered in first aid, home nursing, nutrition, and
other types of home defense service. The Red
Cross has agreed to provide an instructor where-
ever a group of twenty-five or more women or
girls put in a request for such help.

These developments in Los Angeles are part of
what promises to be a “boom” in public recrea—
tion service during the coming months of national
stress and strain. It was during the war period of
1917-1918 that such activities as the War Camp
Community Service of the National Recreation
Association helped to generate momentum for the
public recreation movement in .the United States.
The 1941 emergency may prove an even greater
stimulus to the growth of public recreation ser-
vice. The need and the opportunity are rec0gnized
by thinking individuals everywhere.

Writing in the American Journal of Public
Health, Dr. W. S. Leathers, Dean and Professor
of Public Health at Vandervilt University’s School
of Medicine, points out succinctly, “The driving
power and enthusiasm of a nation depend upon
the development and maintenance of the highest
possible well being and fitness.”

Speaking from Canada’s war experience, A. T.
(Continued on page 50)

How One High School Trains for Leisure

LL THINGS must have
A a beginning. Meth-
ods of instruction
or principles of school adminis-
tration that are now accepted in
American schools are in many
cases the result of early experi-
mentation that had very humble
beginnings. Some new ideas
sweep the country and then die
out from lack of substance to
keep them alive. Other move—
ments come as the inevitable re-
sult of social forces that are far-reaching and so
much a part of life that they grow in spite of
what single individuals may do to aid or hinder
them.

The growth of activities that may be classed as
“training for worthy use of leisure” in school pro-
grams has been slow in getting started, but it is
riding on a ground swell that will ultimately
carry it into most every school system of the coun-
try. The young people of America are entitled to
specific training in the use of leisure time. Edu—
cators have for many years written this conviction
into their reports and recently there have sprouted
forth various movements that are designed to
make leisure training a definite part of school
eXperience.

It is one thing to agree that something should
be taught in the schools and it is quite another to
set up the necessary procedures so that it is done
well. An administrator who really wants to do
something in preparing his pupils for worthy use
of leisure is confronted ivith various questions.
How should this be done? Should there be some
classes in leisure? Should it be done in the club
program? Can students learn to enjoy activities
that are taught them as the result of regular class

work ?

It was in an attempt to answer some of these
questions that an experimental program was set
into operation at the demonstration school con—
nected with the State Teachers College at Mont—
clair, New Jersey. This project is now in its third
year and has been in operation long enough to
draw at least tentative conclusions.

24

By E. DE ALTON PARTRIDGE, Ph.D.
New Jersey State Teachers College
Montclair. New Jersey

In the JanuaryI l94lI issue of

Recreation, Dr. Partridge discussed
the problem, "Should the Schools
Train for Leisure?" In this issue
he tells of experiments which were
successfully conducted in one high

school without changes in schedules
or additions to the school's staff.

Aims of the Program

In general it is the aim

of this program to fur-

nish young people with a rounded

experience in leisure and recre—

ation activities so that upon

graduation from high school
they will have the following:

1. An acquaintance with a large
number of different activities as
a basis for choice of leisure
pursuits.

2. A large number of actual skills
that can 'be used in the worthy use of leisure time.
These skills to be of a kind that do not demand
elaborate school equipment, but rather give promise
of carry-over into later life.

3. A practical knowledge, based upon actual experi--
ence, of the recreation facilities of their county,
state and nation.

4. An appreciation of the problems faced by cities,
counties, states, and the nation in attempting to make
adequate recreation facilities available to the public.

5. A set of materials compiled by the students them-
selves including practical information about leisure-
time activities.

It has been definitely a part of the plan to go
forward without any great extension of expendi-
tures, but rather to work with the facilities at hand
and the personnel available. It was the belief that
by expanding teaching units in the regular cur-
riculum and supplementing these with special pro j -
ects that the aims could at least be approached. If
something beyond this could be done, all the better.

Getting Started

No new staff member was added to carry on the
work. A regular member of the teaching staff of
the high school took the initiative and worked
with the existing facilities. The first year of the
experiment, two regular periods a week were
scheduled for the eleventh grade of the high school
during which time they planned leisure projects
and carried on activities in this field. During the
year several field trips were taken in connection
with the interests of the group. The trips included
canoe trips on a near-by stream, a salt-water fish-
ing trip, overnight trips to a near-by state park,
and hiking on the Appalachian Trail.

HOW ONE HIGH SCHOOL TRAINS FOR LEISURE 25

Besides these outdoor activities the group in-
vestigated other leisure possibilities. A movie was
made of their year’s projects which of course
meant that many members of the class learned
how to plan, film and edit a home movie. Members
of the class who made collections of various kinds
brought them to school and explained their inter-
est to the group. Several of the students made
their own Christmas cards using still photography
as a medium and several different types of craft
work were introduced.

In the second year. of the experiment it was
felt that an attempt
should be made to‘make
these activities available
to the entire student
body so that as a stu-
dent progressed through
the grades he would be
exposed to a varied set
of leisure-time activi-
ties. The nature of these
activities covered a wide
field of interest and ulti-
mater settled into grade
levels. For example, the
eleventh grade is now
taken on the deep—sea
fishing trip each year,
the tenth grade goes
canoeing while the sen-
iors take the overnight
trip to the state forest.
There is no set rule
about this, but this
makes it possible for
each student to cover a
variety of activities during his stay in the high
school.

XRecord Keeping with a Purpose

Several methods of motivation are used to keep
the students interested in the activities presented.
The best motivation, it has been found by experi-
ence, consists of the students who have been on
the trips or are having a good time in other activi-
ties. Through the school newspaper the whole
school learns about the special activities of the

various classes.
In addition to these methods of motivation the

students have been told that the academic records

of each pupil will be supplemented by a record of
the extracurricular and recreation activities in

 

There are canoe trips on the Passaic River
where many interesting birds are to be seen

which they participate. These records will be ac-
cumulative from year to year and form the basis
for the activities that are planned. Ultimately, if
time permits, it would be well to review these
records to determine which students were not get-
ting the benefits of the program that is offered.

The Question of Leadership

Since this whole program is being introduced
without any material budgetary provision it has
been necessary to utilize leadership that already
existed rather than bring in new personnel. Mem—

bers of the regular staff

""9 who have special inter—

I ests have been invited
to present their hobbies
and sponsor them. On
the other hand, there
are graduate and under-
graduate students in the
recreation leadership
and camping courses of
the college who need
experience and are train-
ing for this type of
work. Under the proper
guidance, the more ma-
ture students assist on
the hikes, in the craft
shop and in other ways.
This, of course, must
be developed only as
fast as the trained lead-
ers are made available.

One of the major
projects, started the sec-
ond year with the sev—
enth grade and continued since whenever a new
group of students come into the high school, is
the making of a leisure scrapbook by each student
in which he will collect the information and sou-
venirs of his various leisure activities.

This will be a hand-made book, in most cases,
perhaps out of ply-wood with a decorated cover,
and arranged so that pages can be added as neces-
sary. The students keep maps of their state,
pictures of activities, clippings, hike routes, menus,
in this book, so that in the end of the school ex-
perience they will have an invaluable book made
up of practical information that is usable to them
in the leisure interest they have developed. If the
main interest of a student centers around photog-
raphy, for example, this book should contain new

26 HOW ONE HIGH SCHOOL TRAINS FOR LEISURE

formulae, ideas for newspapers and magazines,
unusually good pictures he has taken or seen in
magazines and so forth. This book will serve as
an inventory of his accomplishments during his

school period.‘

Pay-As-You-Go

Some expense is involved in the activities that
are carried on. A conscious attempt is made to
keep this expense at a minimum, but it is quite
impossible to eliminate the expenses entirely. The
policy has been adopted of asking the students to
pay their own way as they go. In this way the
project is not held back because of budgetary limi-
tations. By planning the activities in advance the
students can arrange their personal finances with-
out undue misunderstanding on the part of par-
ents. Ultimately, as the schools get into this type
of activity as a regular part of their curriculum,
adequate resources will have to be made available.
There is no reason why money cannot be spent for
this type of practical experience as well as for
some of the questionable things now in the cur—
riculum.

Parental Participation

An interesting sidelight on this whole plan is
the relationships that have been developed with
the parents of the students. Considerable parental
interest was evidenced from the beginning in the
projects carried on with the eleventh grade the
first year. Later it developed that groups of stu-
dents with their parents were doing some of the
outdoor activities started in school. The result
has been that the Parent-Teachers Association
decided to make leisure time the theme of their
meetings during one entire year. In this way
parental interest was sponsored in the activities
carried on by the students and consequently there

was more of a possibility of carry—over into family
life.

Conclusions to Date

This experiment has not been in operation for
a sufficient length of time to enable any final con-
clusions to be reached. There are, however, several
interesting and significant indications that are
worth recording. There is one question that is
bound to arise in connection with leisure-time
activities and that is whether or not young people,
or any persons for that matter, can be taught to
enjoy themselves and use their leisure construc-

tively. There are those who claim that when one
tries to train for leisure it ceases to exist.

On the basis of experience to date several ques-
tions stand out in this connection.

IKStudents have often contended that they are
not interested in a given activity only to find after
they have tried it that there is a real appeal.

A good example of this is the way in which
interest developed in the making of Christmas
cards. When the class leader first asked the group
if they would like to make some of their own
cards there was a cool reaction from a large num-
ber of the group. However, after one demonstra-
tion as to what could be done the interest mounted
rapidly and practically every member of the group
wanted to make cards. Later there was distinct
evidence that an interest in photography came out
of the project.

2?‘ The students are learning a great deal of
practical information they would not have learned
otherwise. Many did not know how to go sea
fishing, or where the state parks were, or where
one could rent a canoe reasonably. Subsequent in-
vestigations have shown that the students and
their parents use this information.

3)} There are definite carry-overs into the sub-
ject-matter fields. Students learn English by writ-
ing for their school paper about the recreational
trips. There is real functional geography in learn-
ing about the recreational facilities available in the
county, state and nation. There is good practice
in arithmetic figuring mileage, food costs, etc.

If The students like the activities. They enjoy
the trips and the projects on campus which augurs
well for the carry-over value into later life. Only
time will tell whether the hobbies and skills learned
under these conditions will form the ground work
for constructive use of leisure time later on in
life. However, there is good reason to suspect
that they will.

5‘ It is evidently possible to start a program
such as outlined above without drastic changes in
schedules or new additions to the staff. If, as
educators seem to agree, it is a major responsi-
bility of the school to. train for constructive use
of leisure time, then some plan such as this must
be developed if this responsibility is to be met.

Time Out for Living is the title of a 662 page
book by Dr.Partridge and Catherine Mooney which
is just off the press. The volume is designed to
help high schools train the youth of America to
make a constructive use of their leisure time.

A Literature "Shower" For Service Men

By CHARLES H. ENGLISH

ll PENDING eight hours of
S strenuous physical and
mental activity each day, the men in camp
welcome the opportunity to use some of their lei-
sure in reading books and magazines, but we don’t
begin to have enough to go arOUnd.”

This statement by a Morale Officer was the
cause of the inauguration of the Literature
Shower of Philadelphia by the Playground and
Recreation Association. During the week of
March 17th, Army trucks began hauling to near-by
camps and the Navy Yard approximately 200,000
books and magazines that had been carefully sorted
and bundled from huge piles of reading material
collected by school children
and from citizens generally

A twenty-two foot pile containing 38.000
magazines lonbe shipped to near-by camps

during the previous two weeks’
campaign.

One hundred and ninety—seven public and pa-
rochial schools held “showers.” Over a hundred
trucking concerns each donated the services of a
truck and driver to make the collections. An
Armory was secured as headquarters, and here
nearly two hundred volunteer club women did the
sorting and bundling. Children’s bookswere sent
to the city libraries, and periodicals and books not
used for camps were given to the Salvation Army.
A down-town vacant store was used as a deposi-
tory convenient for shoppers and business em-
ployees. A women’s motor corps picked up collec-

tions from individual homes,

(Continued on page 61)

 

Poto by Philadelphia ~'Inm'm'

27

What They Say About Recreation

Ni 'HE WORK. which a recreation commission
T carries on is of vital importance not only to
the community but to the state and the na-
tion. So long as youth, and older people too, can
find wholesome relationships with their friends
and neighbors through recreation, democracy need
have no fear."——Hon. Dwight H. Green, Gover—
nor of Illinois.

“Recreation should be regarded and conducted
as an educational and cultural force. This, of
course, is merely saying that it should be recog—
nized for what it really is. The character of the
American people and of their civilization will no
doubt depend as much on recreation as on educa-
tion.”——.-George S. Counts. '

“Democracy sets high value upon the attain-
ment of human happiness as a basis for judging
the effectiveness of social 1ife.”—From The Pur-
poses of Education in American Democracy.

“Even more than the necessity for increased
vigilance of civil enforcement is the need for the
prompt provision of suitable recreation facilities
in the communities about military and industrial
concentrations. It has been amply demonstrated
that wherever serious efforts have been made to
provide adequate, wholesome recreation, this has
been much more effective than repressive mea—
sures.”—Bailey B. Burritt, Chairman, Executive
Council, The Community Service Society.

“Let us all be able to lose gracefully and to win
courteously; to accept criticism as well as praise;
and last of all, to appreciate the attitude of the
other fellow at all times.”—James Naismith in

Basketball.

“We believe that, especially at this time when
we are looking to national defense, it is important
to stress the fact that no nation is truly prepared
to defend its future unless it can point with pride
to the provision which it makes for the welfare,
happiness and education of its children.”-—George
J. H echt, President, The Parents’ Institute.

28

“National defense requires not only the provi-
sion of tanks, guns and airplanes, but also the
maintenance and up-building of citizen morale.
The essence of morale in a democracy is physical
health, mental stability, and social unity. Com—
munity recreation is now recognized as a vital
force in building this kind of morale.”—-From
l’Vestchester C ozmty Recreation C oamnission.

“While it is more fun to win than to lose, more
fun to play well, to make shots and strokes cor—
rectly than in bad form—it is really not Vital
whether we win, nor is it really important to play
well. It is only important to play.”-—Jolm R.
Tunis in Sport for Fun.

“What can we Americans do, in a world made
mad with war and fear, to keep our own national
balance, when that balance may mean the differ-
ence between chaos and world order? . . . We can
encourage in every way the use of leisure in non-
commercial ways that are truly recreative. That
means initiative in fun making, both private and
public, as against the mass acceptance of being
amused by others.”—-—l/Vilfred H. Crook, Bucknell
University Junior College.

“It has often been said that the gang in itself is
not bad. It is only bad when it is left to itself in a
delinquency area.”——Frederick M. Thrasher.

“The homes, the schools, and the churches are
the citadels of civilizations. They are social insti-
tutions common to both the country and the city.
They are what holds America or any, nation to-
gether. To lose faith in them is to lose faith in
humanity. Without them civilized society would
not get very far.”——Al_fred G. Arvold.

“When the spirit of man goes out into matter,
whether it be the spirit of a farmer, or a worker,
or an artist, or an athlete, I am convinced that
some kind of' religious function is being per-
formed.”-=—Henry A. Wallace in The Price of
Freedom. '

Ensuring Safety in the Use

of

Playground Facilities

HE PLAYGROUND, it must be remembered, dif-

fers from the school situation in that it does

not have such direct control over the child in
so far as instruction is concerned, while it is con-
fronted with the omnipresent problem of restrain-
ing the occasional attendant from breaking down
the rules which are known and observed by the
children who come regularly to the ground. M ore-
over, the playground has the problem of handling
varied age groups with little opportunity to clas—
sify them by means of suitable tests before they
take part in competitive play. \Vhat it has in-
variably done has been to classify the groups ac-
cording to age or height—by themselves inade-
quate criteria. A plan of medical examination for
those entering competitive athletics and closer
supervision would help materially in reducing haz—
ards. Simplified motor ability and skill tests can
be used to good advantage.

The administration of an adequate playground
program centers about leadership. No matter how
well planned the area or how expensive and
elaborate the equipment, it still remains the re-
sponsibility of able leadership to transfer the area
from a possible breeding place of accidents to a
reasonably safe place within which to spend one’s
free time.

An often overlooked factor is that of safe cross-
ing of streets in going to and from the playground.
In addition to grOUp instruction, the cooperation
of the police department and
the home can do much to-
ward minimizing accidents
from this cause. It is also
very important to plan in
the space available for play
areas sufficiently large to
accommodate the chosen ac-
tivities without constituting
a hazard. With the recom-
mended number and type of
apparatus continually chang-
ing, the planning of play-

There is a definite need for safe planning
and for education in safety in all areas of
recreation, particularly in playground man-
agement. The playground is a comparatively
small area in which large groups of children
assemble, and the ensuing intensive activity
coupled with the large numbers involved
tends to increase the possibility of accidents.
Although it is important to recognize the
fact that many physical activities are in them-
selves hazardous, it is even more important
to realize that. the maiority of accidents can
be prevented and, when they do occur. the ex-
tent of the injury involved can be minimized.

 

By H. D. CORBIN

Director, Lafayette Playground
BrooltlynI New Yorlt

grounds must make allowance for this phase of
playground administration.

In large cities in which land is at a premium,
playground planners all too often arrange pieces
of equipment close together, and as a result cause
dangerous situations. This problem of conflicting
play areas must be faced and an optimum adjust-
ment made. Where the area is limited it is ad-
visable to reduce the number of pieces of equip-
ment in an effort to eliminate hazards.

Certain areas, such as those in which swings
and rings are located, can best be protected by rail
guards. Painting or marking off the less danger-
ous areas will also be an aid toward redUCing the
probability of accidents. Moreover, the regulation
baseball area should be protected by full size back-
stops and roped 'off to prevent the younger chil-
dren or even careless older ones from getting into
the path of the bat, ball, or runner. Adequate
space allotment should be made to prevent a hard
hit ball from going into an adjacent play area.
Some provision should be made for other activities
so that there will be less likelihood of accidents
from faulty organization.

The problem of playground safety iinally re-
solves itself to the safe use
of the apparatus and facili-
ties. Some suggestions are
offered for the safe use of
typical pieces of apparatus.

Safe Swinging
Suggestions for Playground
Directors

The swings should be
surrounded by a guard or
fence.

The use of baby swings

29

30 ENSURING SAFETY IN THE USE OF PLAYGROUND FACILITIES

should be limited to children up to the age of six;
large swings are for those over six.

Equipment should be oiled and tested regularly.

Chains are much safer for swings than ropes.
Rules for Children

Never stand or kneel on the seat of a swing,
and do not swing sidewise.

Only one child at a time should occupy a swing.

Do not push or twist empty swings.

Stay away from moving swings.

When you decide to stop swinging, bring the
swing to a gradual stop before getting off.

When you sit in the swing face in the same
direction as all of the other children.

Do not wear skates when you swing.

Safe Sliding

Suggestions for Playground Directors

The small slides are for young children up to
the age of live ; the high slides are for older
children.

The landing of the slide should be soft. Use
either a mat, softened earth, or shavings.

See that cracks in the slide are clear of stones,
splinters, or similar objects.

Check the slide regularly for any loosening of
the structure.
Rules for Children

Use the steps of the slide to reach the top and
not the slide itself.

Sit erect with your feet forward within the
slide; there is no other safe position.

Make certain there is no one on the slide before
you go down.

As you reach the bottom of the slide be on the
alert and dig your toes into the landing pit.

Leave the slide as soon as you reach the bottom.

Safe Seesawing

Suggestions for Playground Directors

Inspect and, if necessary, tighten the seesaw
bolts.

Look for any signs of cracking wood.

Make certain the handles are in place and are
firm.

Lubricate the friction parts.
Rules for Children '

Always remember that only two children can

use the seesaw at one time.
In lowering the seesaw, touch the ground with
the feet and do not let the seat bump the ground.
Balance the seesaw by facing the child opposite
you as you sit on it.

Before getting off notify the child at the other
end.

When you leave the seesaw, hold on to the
board and gradually lower it so that your partner
can get off safely.

Safe Skating

Suggestions for Playground Directors

No more than two skaters are allowed to hold
hands.

Examine the rink for any cracks.

Any poles or protruding objects on the rink
should be well padded.

Do not allow any trains or “snake” skating.

Do not permit bicycles or pushmobiles on the
rink.
Rules for Children

wait until you reach the playground before
putting on your skates.

Do not speed on the rink.

Skate mbre slowly when you see someone in
front of you.

Remember that stunts and trick skating are
dangerous. I

Bumping and pushing may cause a serious
accident.

Skate around a group rather than attempt to
cut in and out.

Keep your eyes open and your mind alert.

Safety on the Junglegym

Suggestions for Playground Directors

Give the children instruction in the safe use of
the junglegym.

Test the junglegym for rigidity.

Do not allow more than a safe load—approxi-
mately twenty.

Examine the bars for any loose nuts or bolts.
Rules for Children

Hold on with a tight grip.

Make certain that your hands are dry.

Do not shake the junglegym ; someone may
fall off.

Do not attempt risky stunts.

Always grasp the bars with both hands.

Pushing and shoving are more dangerous when
you are off the ground.

Safety in Using the Bars

Suggestions for Playground Directors
An attendant should be present when this ap-
paratus is" in use.

ENSURING SAFETY IN THE USE OF PLAYGROUND FACILITIES 31

The landing underneath the apparatus should be
softened by loosening the earth or by using skid-
proof mats or shavings.

Remove all apparatus showing any signs of
being worn.

Restrict the use of the apparatus to those within
designated age groups according'to the piece of
apparatus in use.

Rules for Children

Your hands should be thoroughly dry. French
chalk or powder will help.

Keep a firm grip at all times.

Do not take unnecessary risks.

Before starting a difficult stunt, make sure a
leader is near by.

Stay away from the apparatus when you are
not using it.

Safe Wading

'Snggesfions for Playground Directors

Keep the pool free from debris.

Do not allow glass objects near the pool.

A skin diSease is reason enough for exclusion
from the pool.

Test the water periodically, using chlorinated
lime or a similar chemical.

Require every child before entering the wading
pool to pass through a one per cent solution of
hypochlorite of lime.

Rules for Children

Do not take toys or breakable objects with you
into the pool.

Do not enter the pool when you are overheated.

Leave the pool when you begin to feel cold.

Do not jump or dive in the pool.

Do not run, splash, or push other children.

Sand Box Safety

Suggestions for Playground Directors

Clean the sand box at least once daily and when-
ever conditions warrant it.

Make certain the sand is thoroughly dry before
allowing children in it.

Strain the sand periodically. Bottles and sharp
articles should never be allowed as playthings.
Rules for Children

Do not drink or eat in the sand box.

It is dangerous to throw sand in or outside of
the box. You may throw it into someone’s eyes.

Do not jump in the box.

The sand box is used by others as well as by
yourself , so be considerate.

Do not take pointed or breakable toys with you
in the box.

General Suggestions

Of great importance to fthe maintenance of
safety on the playground is the daily inspection of
the movable apparatus. This should be followed
by a more thorough monthly inspection and the
oiling of all friction portions of the apparatus.
Damaged apparatus, no matter how slightly af-
fected, should be immediately removed from the
reach of any potential user.

Keeping the ground free from encumbrances
and litter is an important responsibility. The fill--
ing up of worn spots as well as the leveling of
raised portions should be given immediate atten-
tion. Puddles of water should be swept away to
eliminate slipping and make possible more rapid
evaporation. Active play should be forbidden until
the ground is thoroughly dry.

All accidents, no matter how minor they may
appear at the time, should be followed by a com-
plete report stating among other things the exact
place of occurrence, how the accident happened,
the time and day, the activity being engaged in,
the part of the body injured, and the extent of the
injury, the reports of two witnesses (the person
injured and the director), the type of first aid or
treatment given, and by whom. The accident re-
ports should then be tabulated on a monthly basis
according to area and type. This should be fol-
lowed by special eEorts to make the areas in which
the largest number of accidents occurred more
safe. Among the steps to be taken should be the
elimination of hazards if any are present, added
instruction in the safe use of equipment, and
closer supervision.

Whether or not the advice and information
given on the playground is used to good advan-
tage depends largely on the attitudes inculcated
during the teaching process. Is the child sympa-
thetic to the aims of the playground director? Are
the whys and wherefores clear to him? Is suf-
ficient challenge offered for the acquisition of nec-
essary skills rather than the reduction of vital ac-
cident statistics? These and similar questions must
be adequately answered if we are to expect a
degree of success.

Other aids conducive to the development of the
right attitude toward safety follow:

Instruction in the “why” of the safe use of

equipment
(Continued on page 56)

Of uSinging America"

1—113 ACCOMPANIMENT
Edition of “Singing
America” will be avail-
able about April 15th through
the National Recreation As-
sociation at $1.50 a copy.
This handsomely bound, I90—
page edition contains, besides
the melodies, choral parts and
words, the complete piano
accompaniments for all of the
120 songs in the Vocal Edition and, in addition,
new accompaniments for Home on the Range,
Loch Lomond and eight others of the old favor-
ites known by everyone. In most community song
books the only “accompaniments” given for these
favorite tunes is the alto, tenor and bass vocal
parts, but in this new book the distinctive quali-
ties of the piano that make it so effective an ac-
companying instrument are given free play. All
the piano parts, throughout the book, are designed
to have the utmost influence toward arousing and
supporting the singing spirit in groups of people,
and to be simple enough for the ordinary pianist.
Special care and pleasure have been taken also
in making each accompaniment true to the dis—
tinctive characteristics of its own song, in national
or traditional style and in rhythm as well as in
harmony. Dixie, The Shuckin’ of the Corn,
Cielito Linda and many another gay song come
fully alive when treated so, with a character and
zest that many people had not known before; and
so do My Old Kentucky Home, Drink to Me Only
with Thine Eyes, the newly popular Walking at
Night and many another beautiful lyrical song.
The varying rhythms and styles of the fourteen
Latin-American songs in the book, being less
familiar, had to be learned from South American
singers and musicians living in New York. The
composers’ own accompaniments to the Prayer
from “Hansel and Gretel,” the Brahms waltz-
song, In Wood Embower’d, the Gilbert and
Sullivan, Mozart, Wagner, and other songs or
choruses of the Great Companions bring these fine
but warmly human expressions “home” to every—
one who likes music.
Full directions for the eight singing dances are
given in this edition.
The Vocal Edition of “Singing America” cost-

32

The Vocal Edition of "Singing America."
the popular collection of songs from all
the Americas compiled by A. D. Zanzig,
is in its third large printing. And now-
comes the announcement of an accom-
paniment book. and of four records con-
taining twenty-three typical songs from
this collection. The accompaniment book
and the records will enable home. school.
camp and community groupsto learn more
readily and adequately to sing the songs.

ing twenty-live cents, pro-
vided fully for the singers.
Now the man or woman or
boy or girl at the piano is
also well equipped. He or she
will be pleased also by the
size of the book, 9”x12”, by
its remaining widely open at
whatever page is wanted, and
by its colorful, artist-de—
signed cover.

Records Available

There are now available four records on which
twenty-three of the songs from “Singing Ameri-
ca” have been recorded. On one of the records
there are five songs; on each of the other three ‘
records, six.

RECORD 27279. This record contains the follow-
ing: El—a—noy—a pioneer song from the Ohio
River; Lonesome Valley—a spiritual from Ken-
tucky; Shuckin’ of the Corn; At the Gate of
H eaven—a lullaby which came to New Mexico
from the Pyrenees in Spain; To Bethlehem, Sing-
ing—from Puerto Rico; and Night Herding Song
—one of the most beautiful of cowboy songs.

RECORD 27280. Boulé’s Ball—one of the songs
brought to Canada by the voyageurs ; The Turtle
Dove—one of the most beautiful versions of this
farewell love song, some of them recurring in the
United States as well as in Canada; La Cuisiniere
—French Canadian; Tutti .Marambd—a lullaby
and one of the best known folk songs of Brazil;
Santo San Juanito—a type of Ecuadorian Indian
song; and From Y on Mountain Verdant—a haunt-
ing tune which takes one to the lonely heights of
Peru among the Inca people.

RECORD 27281. Que Lejos Estoy—a song known
and loved in many parts of South America as well
as in Mexico; Vidalita—n-a typical song of the
Argentine cowboy; U y! Tara La La—very gay
Mexican music; Cuba; Flowing River (Rio Rio)
-—one of the best known and loved of the graceful
Chilean songs.

RECORD 27282. Walking at Night—a favorite
Czech song; V agabond’s Song—a beautiful ex-
ample of the folk tunes of the Catalonian people;
Little Grove, All in Green—a song reflecting the

(Continued on page 57)

The Midwest College Outing Conference

ROM THE COLLEGES and universities of Ohio,
Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Wisconsin, Il-
linois, Iowa, and Missouri, there will gather

at McCormick’s Creek State Park on May 10th
and 11th a group representing both students and
faculty members. The occasion will be
the first Midwest College Outing Confer-
ence, and for this interesting get-together
of college students and instructors three
group camps have been reserved in one of
Indiana’s most scenic state parks.

Registration will begin at 9 :00 A. M. on
Saturday, after which, time will be avail-
able for a hike along the canyon~—that
long waited for stroll into the wood which
will be so freshly scented with the piquant
aroma of spring’s new earthiness and
abundantly hued with the waxy dogwood
and redbud blossoms etched against the
feathery array of greens that so dominate
the wood. And there will be a visit to
Indiana’s most popular' park museum
where Junior, the owl, wisely S'LlI'VCyS all
newcomers from his ledge over the fire-
place.

Program and organization meetings will
be held during the two-day conference at
the new Redbud Shelter and in the large
amphitheater near the group camps. An
evening barbeCUe at Redbud Shelter will
be a highlight of the conference. State
Park naturalists, under the direction of
Howard Michaud, Chief Naturalist for
Indiana, will be available to interpret the
interesting features of the park area.

The outing, an outgrowth of the Mid-
west Hiking Conference held last No-
vember at Spring Mill State Park in
southern Indiana, is being planned by a commit-
tee of which Dr. S. C. Staley, Director of the
School of Physical Education, Illinois University,
is chairman. The Midwest Hiking Conference
drew an attendance of over two hundred persons
from the hiking clubs of Evansville, Louisville,
Cincinnati, St. Louis, Chicago and Indianapolis.
Also in attendance were the recreation executives
of Chicago, Cincinnati, and St. Louis; park execu-
tives from Michigan, Missouri, Illinois, and
Indiana; and college professors from the Univer-

By GARRETT G. EPPLEY

Associate Recreational Planner
Region llI National Park Service

 

Courtesy Indiana Conservation Department

It is in beautiful surroundings such
as these that the meetings of the Mid-
west Hiking Conference are to be held

sities of Purdue, Indiana and Illinois, and Indiana
State Teachers College. The hiking conference
was sponsored by the Indiana Conservation De-
partment with the cooperation of Region II of the
National Park Service.

33

34 THE MIDWEST COLLEGE OUTING CONFERENCE

Pertinent recom-
mendations for the
promotion of hiking
were made at the
Midwest Hiking
Conference by com-
mittees representing
the park natural-
ists, recreation exe-
cutives, park execu-
tives, college and
university personnel
and hiking clubs.
Alfred H. Wyman,
Executive Secretary
of the St. Louis
Park and Play-
ground Association,
was elected Presi-
dent, and the fol-
lowing committee
chairmen were
placed on the exec-
utive committee:
V. K. Brown, Director of
Recreation, Chicago Park
District; S. C. Staley, Illi-
nois University; Charles A. DeTurk, State Park
Director for Indiana; Jack Kramb, President of
the Ohio Valley Hikers’ Association; and Carlyle
Chamberlain, V ice-President of the Louisville
Municipal Hiking Club. The writer, representing
Region II of the National Park Service, was asked
to serve as adviser. Mr. Wyman, the president,
is Director of the Missouri Walk-Ways Associa-
tion, an outing organization composed of four
hundred and fifty members. Already Mr. Wyman
is planning a second annual conference for next
fall. The Association has a Board of Directors
composed of the presidents of its member clubs.

The representatives from
the Indiana Conservation
Department, Missouri
Park Board, Michigan
Conservation Department,
Cook County Forest Pre-
serve, and the National
Park Service, all of whom
participated at the Spring
Mill conference, feel that
the initiation and stimula-
tion of hiking and outing
activities is one of the best

 

Cartrtc’sy Indiana Conservation Department

This owl makes his home in the Junior
Museum at McCormick's Creek State Park

So successful was the Midwest Hiking Con-
ference held last November in Southern Indi-
ana that a Midwest College Outing Confer-
ence has been called for May IO-II at Mc-

Cormick's Creek State Park. As a result of
this event it is hoped that college students and
faculty members will avail themselves more
fully of State Park areas and near-by natural
environments for recreational purposes. It is
further hoped that this particular confer-
ence will prove the springboard for individ-
ual state conferences to be held next year
in a State Park or Federal Recreation Area.

mediums for obtain-
ing the most bene-
licial and enjoyable
use of park and for-
est areas. The rec-
reation executives
state that there is
no recreation more
invigorating, more
inspiring—yet more
restful—than that
of nature recreation.
Park naturalists
cannot find suf-
flcient time to ex—
plore the interesting
features of any nat—
ural area. Hikers—
you can’t keep them
indoors when they
can get out into
the open spaces!

For the College
Outing Conference,
the committee of which Dr.
Staley is chairman is being
expanded to include two
representatives from each of the states in which
colleges will be represented.

 

Speaking of the fact that selective service of-
ficials have laid down the general policy that every
draftee, after due conditioning, must be able to
walk from fifteen to twenty miles with fifty
pounds on his back, Howard Braucher asks this
question: “In defense time, is it not particu-
larly appropriate to develop tramping clubs in the
various recreation systems? . . . Dr. John H. Fin-
ley, who for so many years was very active in the
leadership of the recreation movement was him—
self a world-famed walk-
er. Each year, on his birth-
day, it was his custom to
walk around Manhattan
Island, starting after mid-
night and walking through
the day and into the fol-
lowing night. Just as
many cities have dedicated
playgrounds to Joseph Lee,

so others may wish to
establish John H. Finley
walking groups.”

Art and the People

REAT WORKS of art
6 h a v e a W a y o f

breaking out of
private ownership into
public use. They belong
so obviously to all who
love them—they are so
clearly the property not of their single owners but
of all men everywhere—that the private rooms and
houses where they are hung become in time too
narrow for their presence. The true collectors are
the collectors who understand this—the collectors
‘ of great paintings who feel that they can never
truly own, but only gather and preserve for all
who love them, the treasures they have found.

But though there have been many public gifts
of art in the past, the gift of this National Gallery
dedicated to the entire nation and containing a con-
siderable part of the most important work brought
to this country from the continent of Europe has
necessarily a new significance. It signifies a rela-
tion—a new relation here made visible in paint
and in stone—between the whole people of this
country and the old inherited tradition of the arts.

And we shall remember that these halls of
beauty, this creation of a great American architect,
combine the classicism of the past with the con-
venience of today.

In accepting this building and the paintings it
contains, the people of the United States accept a
part in that inheritance for themselves. They
accept it for themselves not because this gallery is
given to them—though they are thankful for the
gift. They accept it for themselves because, in the
past few years, they have come to understand that
the inheritance is theirs and that, like other inheri-
tors of other things of value,
they have a duty toward it.

Discovery by the People

There was a time when
the people of this country
would not have thought that
the inheritance of art be-
longed to them or that they
had responsibilities to guard
it. A few generations ago,
the people of this country

countryI but

Extracts from the address delivered
by President Roosevelt on March l7th
in accepting, for the nation, the Na-
tional Art Gallery at Washington

"The pe0ple of this country know now . . .
that art is not something iust to be owned,
but something to be made; that it is the
act of making and not the act of own-
ing that is art. And knowing this they
know also that art is not a treasure in
the past or an importation from another
part of the present life of
all the living and creating peOples—all
who make and build; and, most of all,
the young and vigorous peoples who have
made and built our present wide country."

were taught by their writ-
ers and by their critics
and by their teachers to
believe that art was some-
thing foreign to America
and to themselves, some-
thing imported from an-
other continent and from an age which was not
theirs, something they had no part in, save to go
to see it in a guarded room on holidays or Sundays.

But recently, within the last few years, they
have discovered that they have a part. They have
seen in their own town, in their own villages, in
school houses, in postoflices, in the back rooms of
shops and stores, pictures painted by their sons,
their neighbors—people they have known and
lived beside and talked to.

They have seen, across these last few years,
rooms full of painting by Americans, walls cov-
ered with the paintings of Americans—some of it
good, some of it not good, but all -of it native,
human, eager and alive—all of it painted by their
own kind in their own country and painted about
things they know and look at often and have
touched and loved.

The people of this country know now, whatever
they were taught or thought they knew before,
that art is not something just to be owned, but
something to be made; that it is the act of making
and not the act of owning which is art. And
knowing this they know also that art is not a
treasure in the past or an importation from an-
other country, but part of the present life of all
the living and creating peoples—all who make and
build; and, most of all, the young and vigorous
peoples who have made and built our present wide

country.

Symbols of Human Spirit

It is for this reason that
the people of America ac-
cept the inheritance of these
ancient arts. Whatever these
paintings may have been to
men who looked at them a '
generation back—today they
are not only works of art.
Today they are the symbols

35

36 ART AND THE PEOPLE

of the human spirit and of the world the freedom
of the human spirit made—a world against which
armies now are raised and countries overrun and
men imprisoned and their work destroyed.

To accept, today, the work of German painters
such as Holbein and Durer and of Italians like
Botticelli and Raphael, and of painters of the low
countries like Van Dyck and Rembrandt, and of
famous Frenchmen, famous Spaniards—to accept
this work today on behalf of the people of this
democratic nation is to assert the belief of the
people of this nation in a human spirit which now
is everywhere endangered and which, in many
countries where it hrst found form and meaning,
has been rooted out and broken and destroyed.

To accept this work today is to assert the pur—
pose of the people of America that the freedom
of the human spirit and human mind which has
produced the world’s great art and all its science—
shall not be utterly destroyed.

Seventy-eight years ago, in the third year of the
War Between the States, men and women gath-
ered here in Washington to see the dome above the
capitol completed and the bronze Goddess of
Liberty set upon the top. It had been an expen-
sive and laborious business, diverting money and
labor from the prosecution of the war, and certain
citizens found much to criticize. There were new
marble pillars in the Senate wing and a bronze
door for the central portal and other such expen-
ditures and embellishments. But Lincoln, when he
heard the criticisms, answered: “If people see the
capitol going on, it is a sign we intend the Union
shall go on.”

We may borrow the words for our own. We
too intend the Union shall go on. We intend it
shall go on, carrying with it the great tradition of
the human spirit which created it.

The dedication of this gallery to a living past.
and to a greater and more richly living future, is
the measure of the earnestness of our intention
that the freedom of the human spirit shall go on.

“It is a strange moment for opening a national
museum of art,” says Anne O’Hare McCormick
in The New York Times for March 22nd, “yet
what event could be better timed to meet and coun-
teract the despair with which civilized peoples
contemplate the savagery of war?

“\Vashington's new museum is perhaps the most
beautiful gallery of art in the. world. From the
magnificent rotunda in the middle every vista is
serene and noble. The paintings and sculptures,
collected in rooms as calm and luminous as 3 Ver-
meer interior, are only in a few instances the mas-
terpieces of the artists who produced them. In a
dozen vast galleries, including the Metropolitan,
there are more and greater single works of genius.
But nowhere else are they shown in this clear day—
light, and the effect of color in the Alba Madonna,
for instance, and in the Raphael portrait of Bindo
Altoviti on the opposite wall, is so dazzling that
you perceive that you have been looking all your
life at the dim shadows of pictures. Though you
are familiar with many of the canvasses in the
gloriOUS parade of the Italian schools, you find
that you have never really seen them before. The
Rembrandts glow with an astonishing luster.

Beauty That Endures

“But the gallery itself, incomparable as it is, the
collection itself, splendid as it is, are less impres-
sive than the effect they produce on the visitors.
Every day this week the rooms have been crowded.
It is a place full of life—glowing on the walls,
milling in the corridors. . . . Almost an oasis of
happiness; not for years has this observer seen so
many happy faces as those who looked upon
Sesiderio da Settignano’s ‘Bust of a Little Boy’—
the eternal little boy, still touching and expectant
after the wars of nearly a half century.

“Andrew Mellon’s Medicean gesture in giving
this museum to the nation may have been a signal
that an epoch was ended. Or it may be the begin-
ning of an epoch. In a way it signalizes our
maturity as strikingly as the heavy sense of world
responsibility that begins to oppress the American
people.

“The folly and the glory of man meet at the
door where one turns from the picture of war to
the masterpieces of human genius, and one knows
that they represent the Italy, the Germany, the
England and the America that endures. One
knows, too, that no people can enjoy the incre-
ment of civilization without bearing the common
burden and paying the price of maintaining its
values. ‘I feel cleansed and steadied,’ said a well-
known sculptor leaving the gallery the other day.
‘Now I know it’s worth fighting for.’ ” Used by
permission of The New York Times.

Miniature Trailside Museums

parks last summer were
pleased to find that the
Iowa Conservation Commis-
sion was again providing
free naturalist services and
nature booklets. Visitors to
Dolliver Memorial State Park found, in addition
to these services, two interesting trailside museums.
These museums were not the type of structures
one usually associates with the word “museum.”
Perhaps “glorified bulletin boards” would bea
better description for these structures. As a mat—
ter of fact, the museums were glass-fronted bul-
letin boards upon which were displayed various
plant and animal specimens with short, simple
descriptions of each. No stuffed birds or mam-
mals were exhibited. There was never a lack of
other interesting material; in fact, many worthy
specimens could not be exhibited because of a lack
of space. Portions of the,exhibits were changed
at intervals so as to make them more timely and
0f greater interest to those who
visited the park frequently.
The trailside museums were
instituted as an experiment. The
expense was negligible, in this
case, since the bul-
letin boards were
already available.
As a display medi—
um these structures
were very satisfac—
tory although each
had certain draw-
backs limiting some-
what their useful-
ness. However, in
Spite of the minor
physical shortcom-
ings of these bul-
letin boards to serve
as trailside muse—
ums, the experiment
itself was far more
successful than had
been anticipated. It
was estimated that

VISITORS to several Iowa

By DAVID DAMON

If a bona fide trailside museum
is out of the question, why not
have a glorified bulletin board?

An attractive type of trailside
museum at the South Lodge Picnic
Area. Mr. Damon suggests, how-
ever, that the case is too small
and that seats are unnecessary.

 

over ninety per cent of all
visitors to these particular
areas inspected the muse—
ums, and some individuals
appeared to read every label.
Many would ask for more
information on some of the
specimens exhibited. Voluntary requests for more
information provided an excellent opportunity for
the naturalist to extend the discussion to other
related topics. One of the museums served also
as the starting point for scheduled nature tours.

If one should “tune in” on a farm family (the
majority 0f visitors to this park are rural folks)
as they inspect the exhibit, he would hear such
comments as these: “Oh look, there’s a snake like
we found in the yard. Jimmy said it was a Cop—
perhead and killed it, but this says it is a milk
snake, one of our harmless and most valuable
snakes.” “Oh Mamma, there’s the kind of big
moth we found on the porch last summer and
didn’t know what it was. It’s a Luna Moth and
the caterpillars eat leaves of
hickory, walnut and other for-
est trees.” “Well, this is the
first time I knew young clams
lived awhile under the skin of
fishes.”

This family
learns, in an easy
way, a few facts
about some of the
familiar plants and
animal s—plants and
animals, which, be—
cause of their com—
monplaceness, had
been taken for
granted and not
suspected of having
anything interesting
attached to their
past history, habits
or life cycle.

For those who
plan to build a trail-
side museum, a few
suggestions may be

37

38 MINIATURE TRAILSIDE MUSEUMS

in order. The type of struc-, .
ture may vary with the
park and the funds avail-
able, but it should lean to-
wards simplicity. The mu-
seum will serve best if
placed in an area fre-
quented by the majority of
the visitors. A case four
feet high by six feet long
and fastened to posts is
very practical and easy to
construct. The glass front should swing open
(preferably divided in the center) and it should
be far enough in front of the mounting board to
permit the convenient display of the largest speci-
men anticipated. A soft composition type of wall-
board makes an excellent mounting board. For
some trailside museums it may be desirable to
have glass shelves, at least in the lower portion.

Whenever possible, avoid facing the exhibit to
the south or west unless it Will be in the shade at
all hours. The direct sunlight fades the delicate
colors of many specimens and green plants may
wilt rapidly. A special effort should be made to
make the case insect—proof. It is practically im-
possible to shut out museum pests, but if the case
is reasonably tight it is not too expensive to keep
an insect fumigant (such as paradichlorobenzene)
in it. Certainly it should be tight enough to keep
out spiders and ants. It is most discouraging to
see a big black ant chewing off the wings of a tine
Luna Moth.

For future trailside museums in Iowa parks a
two-faced type has been suggested. That is to
say, both sides would be used for exhibition pur-
poses. If desired, one side might be very shallow
and used for the posting of printed material only.
A small roof over the case reduces the chance of
rain water entering and staining the exhibit.

As to the exhibit itself, it should go without
saying that neatness is paramount. The insects
should be properly mounted, the butterflies and
moths properly spread, the shells and stones well-
cleaned, and green plants put in a can or jar of
water and discarded as soon as they begin to wilt.
The labels should be neatly printed or typed, not
lengthy, simple, and Latin names omitted unless
there is a good reason to use them. In most cases
it is probably advisable to change portions of the
exhibits from time to time. And last but not least,
don’t clutter up the exhibit with too many speci-
mens no matter how interesting they may be to

The author warns against certain technical
mistakes in construction. It. for example. the
glass front is too close to the mounting
board. the size of the material to be exhibit-
ed will be limited. Moreover. it should not
be necessary to remove the entire mounting
board in order to make changes in the exhib-
its. Mr. Damon. who worked with the Iowa
Conservation Commission as a park naturalist
in Dolliver Memorial State Park. will be glad

to answer questions about the museums. His
address is 724 Sixth Street. Ames. Iowa.

you. John Public comes to
the park for recreation.
The trailside museum
should be a part of his
recreation—not a chore.
Therefore, show Mr. Pub-
lic some consideration
when you select your
specimens for exhibition.

A well-constructed and
well-maintained t r a i I si d e
museum is a source of
knowledge and pleasure to the park visitor and an
able assistant to the Park Naturalist.

The Union County, New Jersey, Park Commis-
sion announces the opening, on May third, of a
trailside museum which will provide new oppor-
tunities for nature recreation for the residents of
Union County. The museum, in the establishment
of which five county nature organizations are co-
operating, will be located in the Watchung Reser-
vation. Present plans call fonthe opening of a
building at the Commission’s Nursery on Satur-
days and Sundays between the hours of 2:00 and
5:00.

The five cooperating organizations—the Eliza-
beth Nature League, the Roselle Park and Wat-
chung Nature Clubs, the Westheld Bird Club, and
the Plainfield Mineralogical Society—Will cooperate
with the Commission by sharing the responsibility
for providing exhibits and by aiding in the super-
vision of the museum during the hours it is open
to the public. From May to October each group
will have charge of the museum for a four-week
period, and members of the club in charge will be
on hand to answer questions regarding the ex-
hibits and assume responsibility for the operation
of the museum.

In addition to a semi-permanent exhibit to be
arranged by members of the various clubs who
have been appointed to serve on a Trailside Com-
mittee, the different groups will take turns in pre-
paring an exhibit of nature objects native to the
County and appropriate to the season during which
they are being displayed. Nature hobbyists through-
out the County have been invited to help the com-
mittee by loaning collections of shells, minerals,
birds’ eggs and nests, insects and similar objects
for special weekly displays.

It is expected that additional nature organiza-
tions will accept the invitation of the Park Com-
mission to share in the trailside museum project.

Radio and the Farm Home

HAT RADIO can do to im-
w prove farm life is almost

incalculable. Lessening
the provincialism which comes
with isolation, the radio broad-
ens the outlook of the farm family and brings
entertainment and information about local, state,
national, and international events to the remotest
farm homes. Young people, particularly, can get
suggestions in recreation and entertainment which
will enable them to introduce valuable programs
into the organizations to which they belong. Ad-
‘ vanced farm practices, weather and market re-
ports, broadcasts on crop conditions, and informa—
tion on the problems of farm and home fill the
air at regular hours.

But radios are still not available to a great many
rural families. When we realize that even in
“prosperous” 1929, farm families in fifteen poorer
states received an average gross income of only
$186 a year, we can understand why, even with
the extension of power lines into rural areas, only
two or three per cent of the 3,000,000 farm homes
in these states have electricity. Even those families
with electricity sometimes have needs more fun-
damental than a radio.

On the other hand, whole sections of the coun-
try in the south, southwest, and northwest are
known as “dead spots.” Only in the evening and
at night in these areas does reception become good
enough to bring in national chain programs. Day-
time listeners are therefore dependent upon small
local stations which are more of an aggravation
and a nuisance than an asset. Even families with
radios, therefore, keep them quiet rather than
listen to the cheap material broadcast hour after
hour under the direction of announcers who are
ignorant of music, art, literature, national events,
and the needs of farm people. Some state colleges
of agriculture send out a variety of fine programs,
but unfortunately many feel that the installation
of additional studios is financially unjustified
under present economic conditions. .

Already local and state agencies, as well as na-
tional network leaders and other groups, are
studying the needs of rural people, improving
radio programs accordingly. The Federal govern-
ment has a wide range of offerings directed to-
ward the recreation, education, and entertainment

This article. is based on material
presented in a bulletin prepared
by John Bradford in connection

with his work in the rural field.

needs of the farm family. As
economic factors permit, there
will be an increase in the num-
ber of radio sets in rural dis—
tricts. And as continued im—
provements are made in programs these sets will
be more and more widely and wisely used. '

Because of the growing importance of this
medium it may be of interest to rural people to
know some of the facts found in a nation-wide
survey made last year by the Federal Communi-
cations Commission. There are 741 stations in the
United States and only one hundred air lanes. To
enable radio authorities to guide these stations
along the radio highways without danger of head—
on collisions and side—swiping interference, Con-
gress created the first Federal Radio Commission
in 1927, supplanting it with the Federal Com—
munications Commission in 1934. It was during
the week of March 6, 1938, that the Federal Com-
munications Commission made its study of all
programs broadcast by all American radio sta-
tions. Investigators found that 64.45 per cent of

'all broadcasting was sustaining and that 34.55 was

sponsored. What was the type of program? The
following facts are revealing:

 

Per cent of
PROGRAM Tour. Tun:
Music
Serious . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.48

Light . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . 9.95

Popular . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32.27

Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.75

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52.45
Dramatic .
General Drama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.50

Comedy Scripts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98

Children’s Drama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.63

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.11

Variety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.84

Talks and Dialogue:
Social and Economic . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .. 2.33
Literature, History and General Cultural... 2.34
Household and Others of Special Interest to

Woman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2.68

Farm Management and Others of Special
Interest to Farmers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.67
Political . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .31
Others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2.08
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1141

4O RADIO AND THE FARM HOME

 

Per cent of
PROGRAM Tom. Tm:
News
News Reports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6.56

Sports Flashes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .96

Market, Crop and Weather Reports . . . . . .. 1.03

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.55

Religious and Devotional . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5.15
Special Events '
Meetings and Occasions of Civic Interest... .77
Sports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.21

Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2.21

rl/Iisccllaneans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.28

GRAND TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..100.00

To make the most effective use of radio it is
necessary to study the programs of the various
chains and of the local and state college and uni-
versity stations, then plan a weekly schedule of
the regular offerings to meet the interests of the
family as a whole as well as of its individual
members. Nation-wide observations and studies
show that a great amount of time is wasted on
radio reception because of failure to study the
programs and then organize the material. With
such a wealth of fine and interesting material
available in all sections of the country there is no
need to waste hours of valuable time before a
radio grinding" out the cheap, vulgar, and medi-
ocre. Many radios are turned on and allowed to
run for hours, promoting a great nervous strain,
although no one could possibly be listening all that
time. In many farm homes, however, one study
indicates the average amount of time the radio is
on as a period of five hours daily; it sets listening
time “peaks” for farm people at 8:30 A. M., from
12 Noon to I o’clock, and from 8 to 10 P. M. A
weekly program schedule can be easily arranged.
Not much time is required to make out a family
outline govering broad 'and interesting fields, and
this system is fine practice in cooperative effort.

Radio clubs made up of small groups of farm
people who follow some program regularly, are
common in all sections of the country. The
groups meet in farm homes, listen to the program,
and discuss what has been presented. Thousands
of farm folks follow America’s Town Meeting of
the Air (from Town Hall, New York City),
which began its fifth season of weekly programs
Thursday, October 5, 1939.

Children’s programs are improving, and during
the school season a wide variety is offered. Among
programs of interest to children are: Romance of

Stamps; Vernon Crane’s Story Book (fairy
tales), Sunday over N.B.C.; Men Behind the
Stars, Friday over C.B.S.; The Lone Ranger,
Monday, Wednesday, Friday over M.B.S.; Na-
ture Sketches (summer program from Rocky
Mountain National Park) ; and story hour broad-
casts by children’s library workers. There are still
132,000 one-room schools in America, but the use
of radio in rural schools is growing. Farm or-
ganizations and parent-teacher groups could aid
greatly by assisting country schools in acquiring
sets.

During the summer the fixed features of inter-
est are outdoor concerts in parks and stadiums in
New York, Boston, Toronto, Chicago, Philadel-
phia, St. Louis, San Francisco, Portland (Ore .
gon), Los Angeles, Long Beach (California), and
the Thursday night standard symphony hour on
the Pacific coast. All year round there are pro-
grams of humor to suit any taste, among them the
general favorites of Charlie McCarthy and Fibber

McGee.

While it is not possible to include here an ex—
haustive list, the one given below suggests pro-
gram possibilities for farm people.

Music

Voice of Firestone: Monday, N.B.C.

Music Appreciation Hour: Fri-day, N.B.C.

N.B.C. String Symphony, Frank Black: Saturday
N.B.C. ‘

Symphonic Strings, Alfred Wallenstein: Saturday,
M.B.S. .

Ford Sunday Evening Hour: Sunday, C.B.S.

National Farm and Home Hour, Army and Navy
Bands, 4H Monthly Hour: Monday through Sat-
urday, N.B.C.

New York Philharmonic Orchestra. John Barbirolli :
Sunday, C. B.S.

Lighter classical and popular music offerings include:
Ginsberg and Old Heidelberg Orchestras, Chicago;
Henry Webber’s Orchestra, Chicago; Contented
Hour; American Album of Familiar Music.

Drama
Lux Radio Theater, DeMille: Monday, C.B.S.
' Sherlock Holmes: Monday, Blue Network, N.B.C.
Arch Obler’s Plays: Saturday, N.B.C.
Campbell Playhouse, Orson Welles: Sunday, N.B.C.

Reading, Current Events, Science. Education
Adventures in Reading: Monday, N .B.C.
Information Please: Tuesday, Blue Network, N.B.C.
Of Men and Books, Professor Frederick: Wednes-

day, C.B.S.

America’s Town Meeting of the Air: Thursday,
N.B.C.

This Wonderful World, Hayden Planetarium: Sat-
urday, M.B.S.

(Continued on page 62)

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Captain Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

DULT EDUCATION. “Enjoy Your VVorld-
Study!” is the title of the spring leatiet of
the Buffalo Museum of Science. Intriguing in-
formal classes two hours a week in such things as
movie making, fossil collecting, animal sketching
and Hower arrangement. The sketching is under
Ellsworth Jaeger, artist-author, recently appointed
Assistant Curator of Education to succeed Pro-
fessor William P. Alexander, a nature leader par
. excellence, who is retiring.

Biological History. “Biology in the Making,”
Emily Snyder. McGraw-Hill Company, New
York, 539 pp. 1940. $2.80. History of biology on
the nature lore style.

Birds. The children at Frick Park in Pittsburgh
are gathering seeds of trees and shrubs frequented
by birds, wintering them in the frigidaire for a
few weeks, planting them in trays and cups to be
transplanted in the park next spring. Colfax school
maintains its own feeding station in the park.

Birds. “Local Bird Refuges.” Farmers Bulletin

1644, Superintendent of Documents, Washington,
D. C. Five cents.

“Civilisation, leelStorehonse of,” C. C. Furnas.
Bureau of Publications, Columbia University,
New York, 562 pp. $3.25. An account of the
earth’s materials in nontechnical language.

)

“Conservation and Citizenship,’ Renner and
Hartley. Heath Company, New York, 367 pp.
$1.60. Profitable reading.

“Conservation Education,” Henry B. Ward, et
al. National Wildlife Federation, 1212 Sixteenth
St., N.VV., Washington, D. C., 39 pp. Ten cents.
A timely discussion by leaders who are reliable.

Dutch Elm Disease. In 1938, Scouts found
18,152 diseased trees; in 1939 the number was
10,786; and in 1940, 3,93I—a reduction of 63.5
per cent. “A stitch in time save nine” applies
here. A few years’ discontinuance might cost
millions.

Electrical Engineering. “Things a Boy Can Do
with Electro-Chemistry,” Alfred Morgan. Apple-
ton-Century, New York, 198 pp. $2.00. A simple
introduction to simple apparatus and experiments.

“Environment, Life and,” Paul B. Sears.
Bureau of Publications, Columbia University, 175
pp. $1.85. An interpretation of human interrela-
tions. “The Control of Organisms,” F. L. Fitz-
patrick. Bureau of Publications, Columbia, 336
pp. $2.75. The story of man’s effort, to control
undesirable organisms.

Farming. “Plowing Through,” Edwin W. Hul-
linger. Morrow Company, New York, 59 pp.
$1.50. The story of the Negro in agriculture,
dramatically told. -

Flower Show. The Seventieth Annual New
England Spring Flower Show of the Massachu-
setts Horticultural Society was. held in Boston,
March 17 to 22. There were 173 gardens of full-
flowered June roses and a mammoth rose garden.

Invention. “Engines of Democracy—Inventions
and Society in Mature America,” Roger Burlin-
game. Scribner's Sons, New York, 606 pp. $3.75.
Really a history of the United States with a back—
ground of economics and sociology by the author
of “March of the Iron Men.”

Jamestown. The National Park Service an-
nounces that the first permanent English settle-
ment will be preserved exactly as uncovered. '
Simple trailside exhibits will be installed adjacent
to important building foundations. A museum will
display cultural objects found during excavation.
Dioramas of scenes will be installed. This policy
is in direct contrast to the example of Eighteenth
Century Williamsburg.

ll/Iainrnals. “AmericaMammals,” W. J. Hamil-

ton, Jr. McGraw-Hill Company, 434 pp. $3.75.
A good reference book.

Nature Books. The Cleveland, Ohio, Museum
of Natural History announces the publication of
two new “Pocket Natural Histories”: No. 8, “A
Field Key to Our Common Birds,” Irene T. Rori-
mer, illustrated by Roger Tory Peterson, $1.50;
No. 9, “The Geology of the Cleveland Region,”
Arthur B. Williams, 50.

Nature Camp for children (9 to 15 years) show-
ing nature talent and aptitude is announced by the.
\Vorcester, Massachusetts, Natural History S0-

41

42 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

ciety. This day camp will have three three-week
sessions on a fourteen-acre wooded estate in W.
Boylston under the leadership of a Clark Uni-
versity biology student. In a way, this is a re-
vival of a pioneer effort of the society when
through the efforts of its president, Dr. William
H. Raymenton, it established a natural history
camp for boys on Lake Quinsigamond from 1885
to 1912. Seventy boys enrolled the first summer.
The camp was opened to teachers in 1905.

Nature Therapy. Butler Hospital, the oldest in
Rhode Island (1844) cares for the mentally sick.
Butler is a pioneer among mental hospitals in
nature therapy. An anonymous gift of $50,000
for instruction in the conservation of natural
beauty and for an instructor trained in horticul-
ture, botany and the natural sciences has made
possible a nature program for the patients. Walks,
round table conferences, and a museum of speci-
mens gathered by patients, constitute a new method
of treatment. They have their “picnic point” and
wild flower garden. The “grotto” offers a path of
peace and quiet in the. natural woodlands. The
primeval hemlocks in this ravine once harbored a
black-crowned night heron colony. Perhaps it still
does. This was the favorite rendezvous where the
writer once led “normal students” afield. One of
these students is now relaxing from tension with
the help of the appreciation and knowledge gained
a quarter of a century ago. Other patients culti-
vate their own gardens.

The department of occupational therapy in the
conservation of natural beauty is under the direc-
tion of Mr. Arthur A. Almon, a graduate of
Rhode Island State College. In these days of
world confusion this Hospital is returning thirty
per cent of its patients to their homes with an
added avocational resource and an improved pat-
tern of life.

News Letter. The executive committee of the
Massachusetts State Rural Policy Committee will
publish progressive reports concerning their work,
starting January I, Vol. I, No. I. Dealing with con—
servation, forestry, camping, the town forest as an
outdoor laboratory for teaching natural science,
and land use planning, it brings together rural
people, scientists, and the member of local, state
and federal agencies. The objective is “the satis—
factory living of rural people.” This is the Ameri-
can way par excellence.

Park. Naturalist. A new park naturalist service
has just been inaugurated in the Dode County

Parks with headquarters in Miami, Florida. A. D.
Barnes is Superintendent of Parks.

Park" Naturalists. First conference, Berkeley,
California, 1929—thirteen delegates; second con-
ference, Grand Canyon, November 1940-—fifty
delegates. Thirty-five papers emphasized integra—
tion with history, archeology, geology, wildlife,
and forestry. Education is living and not seg-
mented information.

Photography. “Look at Life,” Lynwood Chace.
Alfred A. “Knopf, Inc., New York, 178 wonderful
photographs. $3.50. This is the result of a life
devoted to nature photography.

“Plants of the Bible,” Harold N. Moldenke.
N. Y. Botanical Garden, Bronx Park, New York,
13 5 pp. mimeographed, $.25.

“Plants, the Story of Food,” B. E. Dahlgren.
Field Museum, Chicago, 32 pp. $.25. Reproduc-
tion of series of murals of the museum with brief
instructive material.

Plant Relations. Which of the following is the
extra plant, i.e., does not belong in the night shade
family? Tomatoes, white potatoes, sweet potatoes,
petunias, tobacco, and peppers.

Radio—Telephone. 1915—voices from Wash—
ington, D. C., heard in Eiffel Tower, Paris, and
in Honolulu; 1927—commercial service between
United States and Britain; 1929—commercial ser-
vice to ships at sea; 194I—entire world covered.
When will this planet become a place where all
people may carry on friendly conversation with all
other people?

Railroads. “Handbook for Model Builders,”
Fun and Facts for the Amateur Railroader. Lionel
Corporation, New York, 192 pp. $1.00. Profuser
illustrated with photographs and blue prints. An
ideal way of getting acquainted with electricity.
American Association of Model Railroads, I 5 East
26th Street, New York, has a “Leaders’ Manual”
for heads of clubs.

Roadside Beautification. The Peninsula Plan
Association, Summit County, Ohio, planned to
make the Cuyahoga Valley the “Westchester
County” of Ohio. Sign patrols with good judg-
ment were appointed. They exempted highway
department signs, private signs such as “N o hunt-
ing” and “Farm produce for sale.” No signs on
private property were touched without permission
of the property owners. Car crews, with routes
mapped, cleaned up the 480 litter signs in less than
one hour. Other communities please do likewise.

(Continued on page 58)

Building the Morale of Our Armed Forces

HE ARMY is interested
T in what the soldiers find

when they go to town
because it has a tremendous
amount to do with their
morale and effectiveness as
fighting men.

If a boy’s family comes
down to see him over a
week end and has to sleep
in the car or on the bench
~ in a railroad station, he gets
mad. If he goes to town
himself for the week end
and has to sleep on the floor

By CHARLES P. TAFT

The work of building morale in the new citi-
zen army through recreation activities was
described on March |0th by three officials
on the National Radio Forum arranged by
The Evening Star, Washington. D. C.

Speakers included Frederick H. Osborn.
Chairman. Joint Army and Navy Commit-

tee on Welfare and Recreation. Charles P.
Taft. Assistant Co-ordinator of Defense
Activities. Federal Security Administration.
and Col. William H. Draper. Member. War
Department General Staff. We are re-
producing. through the courtesy of The
Evening Star, the talk given by Mr. Taft.

of informal lectures, special
movies and other semi-edu—
cational events. Soldiers
need somebody to talk to
who is not a superior officer,
and their families need help
when they come to town.

Recreation Includes
All These

Recreation is a restricted
term but for our purposes
it includes all of these things
that I have been describing.
It is even our job to set up

in a warehouse, he is not so good when he gets
back to camp.

Anybody would Understand the necessity for
driving out commercialized vice, but lack of simple
facilities like toilets, sewers, a place to rest your
“dogs,” good food for a fair price, a pleasant place
to get a glass of milk and a sandwich, all these
have direct effect on the morale of the Army, even
though they are relevant only to the off hours of
the soldiers.

That is, in a sense, the negative approach.

Home Town Atmosphere

Affirmatively, the man in uniform is a long way
from home, and to make him a good all-round
soldier you need to maintain ust as far as possible
the ordinary home town atmosphere. You need
to convince the families in the communities that
these are boys just like their own, that they are
longing for ordinary hospitality and social con—
tacts. Most of them belong to churches at home,

and they are used to going
to the Y.M.C.A. or the

methods for improving the service of commercial
organizations and eliminating profiteering. Our
agency is not going to operate these programs.
The primary responsibility must rest on the local
community itself. We expect to rely on existing
local organizations or, where that is not possible,
or not sufficient, we have been offered and have
accepted the help of the United Service Organiza-
tion, a group which is made up of the Y.M.C.A.,
the Y.W.C.A., Salvation Army, Jewish Welfare
Board, the Travelers’ Aid, and the National
Catholic Community Service. They are going to
operate most of our recreation buildings which we
expect to build in defense areas if the community
facilities bill passes Congress.

Housekeeping Important

The morale of the soldier is profoundly af-
fected by the town housekeeping around the camp.
We are trying to secure adequate building regu—
lations and zoning regulations in order to prevent

slums outside our gates.
It is our job to see to it

Knights of Columbus. We
want to establish the same
sort of contacts outside the
camps.

The camps are often in
interesting areas. Sight-see—
ing is always of interest.
There may well be opportu-
nity for stimulating hobbies
and even for some measure

"It is equally important that our young
men. who are willingly giving up a year
to their country's service. have oppor-
tunity for the very best in leisure-time
activities during off-duty hours. . . . Clean
sport. healthy recreation and occasional
good entertainment are the best relaxa-
tion from the hard rigors of Army life.
and the best possible protection against
those temptations and influences which the
War and Navy Departments are pledged
to stamp out."—Col. W. H. Draper, Jr.

that adequate sewers, water
lines and sewage disposal
plants are set up to prevent
the ordinary sources of dis-
eases. VVe shall have to do
a good deal of ditching and
mosquito destruction in
order to eliminate malaria.
Hospitals and clinics will be

(Continued on page 55)
43

A Fortieth Anniversary Program

ITHOUT the vision
Wand perseverance

of the pioneers,
who were, and still are,
members of the W oman’s
Club of Reading, Penn-
sylvania, this industrial
city might be without
adequate playgrounds.

Forty years ago a few
women had the foresight
to plan for children’s
playgrounds and the cour-
age to tight for their ideals. It was an uphill fight,
that first decade, to finance the leadership and
supplies necessary. Many people were unsympa-
thetic, but that fact did not dampen the enthusiasm
of the devoted women who thought in terms of
the child as the community’s most valuable asset.

The contribution of these women must not be
forgotten nor must birthdays be allowed to slip
by without celebration. In 1940, which marked
the passing of four decades of playground prog-
ress, the Board of Recreation planned for a year
of intermittent activities which would commemor-
ate the accomplishments of the early leaders in
the recreation movement and at the same time
would focus attention on present and future
needs of the tax-supported Department of Public
Recreation. '

Before the playground season opened the play
leaders were given historical data on the local
movement and mimeographed material containing
the names of living pioneers. Bulletins on anni-
versary program suggestions were issued, and all
leaders were urged to hold a program on their
neighborhood playground inviting “old-timers" to
take part in the affair.

During the middle of the playground season a
city-wide fortieth anniversary program was held
in one of the large park playfields. On this occa-
sion three of the original founders of the play-
ground movement tnld of their early experiences.
Other speakers were members of the first board
of. recreation and the chairman of the present
board, as well as a representative of the City
('nuncil. The playground band of one hundred
and two pieces provided the music. The entire

44

The year I900 was an important one
For the children oi- Reading, tor it
was then the Woman's Club began its
tight for playgrounds. Forty years
later the city held an anniversary.

By THoMAs W. LANTZ

Superintendent of Public Recreation
Reading, Pennsylvania

park playtield was gayly
decorated by the neigh-
borhood parents’ play-
ground association.

The Pageant

The climax of the sum-
mer playground season
was the production of a
pageant entitled “Read-
ing’s First Forty.” Ap-
proximately 750 children
participated before an
audience of 8,000 people. The pageant, divided
into ten episodes, was staged in the new memorial
band shell located in City Park. In the episode
relating to the period of 1900 to 1904, the Depart-
ment of Public Recreation was fortunate in hav-
ing three of the members of the Woman’s Club
at that time and pioneers for playgrounds take
part in the pageant. They wore the dresses which
they used in 1903 when a rummage sale was held
to raise funds for leadership and supplies. A tine
amplification system carried their voices to the
four corners of the park, and the huge audience

was delighted.
The pageant episodes were as follows:

EPISODE 1—1900. Mrs. Frederick Spang read
a paper on “Recreation for Boys” before the
Civic Division of the Woman’s Club.

EPISODE 11—1903. Rummage sale of the newly
formed Playground Division of the Woman’s
Club presided over by Mrs. John M. Stephens,
Mrs. John C. Seltzer, and Miss Blanche A. Zieber.
(These three original members of the Division
appeared on the stage.)

EPISODE III—1904. Final program of the first
playground, including a flag drill and a Maypole
dance.

EPISODE IV—Igto. Labor Day celebration at
City Park with folk dances and dumbbell drill.

EPISODE V—1918. Wartime sing at City Park.
(During this episode the audience joined in sing-
ing “Smiles,” “Long, Long Trail,” “Keep the
Home Fires Burning,” and “Till \Ve Meet

Again”)
(Continued on page 50)

How Does Your Garden Grow?

Y MAY the soil has
B usually warmed up

enough so that seeds
of all annuals may be
sown directly outdoors.

As soon as all danger
of frost is past, tomato,
pepper and other tender
plants may be set out.
Also bean, gourd, cucumber and other seed may
be sown.

Lilacs, Spireas, mockorange and other shrubs in
bloom may be cut for decorative purposes. This
oftentimes serves the double purpose of prUning
the shrub and providing an indoor bouquet.

Prepare window boxes in May, seeing that ade—
quate provision is made for drainage in the bottom.

\Vork into the soil plenty of barnyard manure,
peat, moss and leaf mold as a guard against hot,
dry weather.

Protect birds, toads, green snakes, turtles, lady—
bird beetles and other beneficial insects and animals.

Plan to make field trips for wild flower studies.

Make a special study of the uses and -care of
perennial plants. Emphasize those which are
practical for home plantings.

Consider the life cycle of insects. Make a chart
of those which are benehcial and those which are
harmful in the garden.

Plant an experimental garden to show the ef-
fects of different fertilizers.

June Reminders

Pay strict attention to insect and disease control.
Keep a good stipply of insecticides on hand at all
times. Rotcnone is a very handy and useful one.

Visits to all home garden plots should be made
during this month.

Keep in touch with the state department of
agriculture and other trained leaders in solving
technical garden problems.

Don’t neglect garden photography and exhibits
of garden pictures.
Be sure that a record is being kept of all

produce harvested. Keeping monetary crop values
increases interest in the project.

In February Recreation offered you
some garden reminders for February,
March, and April. Here are some
suggestions for May, June and July.

By JOHN CAMPBELL
National Recreation Association

Conduct pilgrimages to
nurseries, parks, garden
centers.

Begin to cut flowers
for bouquets and arrange—
ments. Early morning is
generally considered the.
best time to do this.

An abundance of weed,
leaf and insect specimens should be available at
this time for collections.

Stress thinning of plants where they have been
seeded too heavily. This is the only way crops
can properly mature.

Secure the cooperation of the local newspaper,
local magazines, the radio and other publicity
mediums to keep the garden project before the
general public.

In July
As soon as early crOps have been harvested, put
on an application of fertilizer and plant late crops.
Beets, spinach, swiss chard, turnips, lettuce, sweet
corn, beans, Chinese cabbage, endive and carrots

seeds may be used for this purpose. Also plants
of cabbage, cauliflower and celery.

Keep blooms and seeds picked from all annuals
so a constant supply of fiowers is available dur-
ing the growing season.

Cultivation is especially important during this
month. It is well to keep a hne soil mulch on the
garden at all times for best absorption of water
to take place.

Irrigation may be necessary during extended
dry spells. \Vhen watering, be sure to do a
thorough job.

Prepare garden posters and scrapbooks.

Tall growing plants may be staked to keep the
stems straight and strong.

Plan to go on hikes, cook—outs and other nature
excursions.

Become acquainted with methods of preparing
garden produce for market.

Enlist the help of older boys and girls in teach-
ing the younger children.

Make leaf prints and plaster casts of interesting
garden materials.

45

Nature Afield

ATURE LEADERS from several
N states will attend the 194I

training course of the Vir-
ginia Natural History Institute
opening on June 23rd. This out-
door school will be held at the
National Park Service’s well-
equipped camp on the Swift Creek Recreational
Demonstration Area near Richmond, Virginia.

Initiated last year as a four week course, this
year’s program will be extended to six weeks.
The first five weeks will be held at Swift Creek;
the final week, optional with students, will be
spent in a field trip to national and state parks in
Virginia and adjoining states.

Only twenty-five students will be admitted to
the course. A minimum of two years of college
training is required. Previous training in group
leadership and in natural science will be of ad-
vantage to the students. Preference will be given
candidates best able to use the materials presented
in educational and recreational work.

The outdoor program offered met last year with
unanimous satisfaction from students. As one of
the students wrote, “. . . we consider this experi—
ment in living and learning together even more
successful than we had anticipated. . . . In the
great outdoor laboratory, rich in scientific materi-
als, we observed and discovered many secrets of
animal and plant life, secrets so fascinating and
so full of meaning that I am sure we will go on
searching and discovering more and more.”

The course is sponsored by the National Park
Service, the National Recreation Association, the
Virginia State Conservation Commission, and the
Richmond Professional Institute of the College of
\Nilliam and Mary. The Richmond Professional
Institute will award five credit hours to students
doing satisfactory work, at a cost of $1.25 per
credit hour.

Each day the students will go afield, many of
the lectures being given out—
of-doors. On Saturdays, full—
day trips to unusual natural
and historic sites will be held.
During the course a simple
museum of local nature ma-
terials will be developed by the
students, and work in crafts

46

The Virginia Natural History
Institute announces it will
Nature Leaders
Training Course at the Swift
Creek Recreational Demonstra-
tion Area beginning June 23rd.

hold its |94l

The Institute initiated its training
program last year to help meet the
rapidly growing need among parlc and
recreation agencies. organized camps
and educational institutions for more
leaders with field experience in the
interpretation of the inspirational
and spiritual values of nature.

allied to nature will be offered.
Students will become acquainted
with techniques of presenting
natural history to groups and
with activities which may be used
in nature recreation programs.
First-hand experience in leader—
ship will be given, for students will have the op-
portunity of serving as nature leaders for children
and adults visiting Swift Creek. Training in na-
ture guiding and in planning of campfire programs
form a valuable part of the course.

Living forms in their native habitats, rather
than laboratory specimens, are studied. Field
observation, rather than book knowledge, is
stressed.

Reynold E. Carlson, Director of Nature Ac-
tivities for the National Recreation Association,
will again direct the program. Outstanding scien-
tists and recreation leaders will be included on the
faculty. Among them are:

Dr. Carl P. Russell, Supervisor, Branch of Re-
search and Education, National Park Service

Dr. Arthur R. Bevan, Virginia State Geologist

Clifford C. Presnall, Assistant in Charge of
Section on Wildlife, National Park Service

Dr. Robert F. Smart, Laboratory of Botany,
University of Richmond

Ned J. Burns, Chief of Museum Division, Na—
tional Park Service

D. E. McHenry, Naturalist, National Capitol
Parks, Washington, D. C.

Fred H. Arnold, Regional Forester, National
Park Service.

The cost of the five weeks’ course at Swift
Creek will be $80.00. This amount will cover tui-
tion, lodging, board, and all incidentals. Expenses
for travel, lodging, and board for the field trip
scheduled for the sixth week will be furnished at
actual cost and should not ex-
ceed $20.00 per student.

Applicants are urged to
write immediately to the Vir—
ginia Natural History Institute,
907 Grace Securities Building,
Richmond, Virginia, for ap-
plication blanks.

WORLD AT PLAY

THREE hundred and
fifty photographs were
submitted in the ama-
teur photo contest con—
ducted by the Department of Parks in New York
City last September. All pictures depicted “Youth
or Age” in the parks, pools, beaches or play-
grounds under the jurisdiction of the Department.
Winter or summer recreation pictures were per-
missible. Contestants were grouped into two divi-
sions: Junior, children up to sixteen years of age,
and Senior, adults seventeen years of age and
over. Winning pictures were displayed at the
Museum of Natural History in conjunction with
the Department’s annual handcraft exhibit of
leather and chip work, soap carving, basketry,
bead and metal work, loom weaving and hook rug
construction.

The photograph, “Little Fisherman,” used as
the frontispiece on page 2 won second place in
the Senior Division.

Camera Contest in
New York City

PLAY and recreation
for the men of the city
were among resolu-
tions for 1941 made
made by the Recreation Department in Charlottes-
ville, Virginia. Since there is no Y.M.C.A. or other
facility available downtown, the recreation build-
ing will be turned over to business men every
Monday, \Vednesday, and Friday from 5 :00 to
6 :30 P. M. They may play badminton, ping-pong,
volleyball, basketball, and table games. Various
civic clubs are expected to organize athletic teams
and make use of the hours available to them.

. Giving the Men a
Chance to Play

 

 

A NINE-ACRE park and
outdoor recreation area
has been developed by
WPA workers from
the former property of the old Urban Water Sup-
ply Company in New York.' An undemolished
water works plant and fifty foot stack still stand
in the northwest corner of the development over-
looking a concrete stadium and football field con-
vertible to softball and regulation baseball. A
chain link fence separates this area from the un-
used building. Senior play swings, slides, a com-
bination basketball court and ice skating rink, four

Water Works Plant
Becomes a Park

 

horseshoe pitching courts and six shufiieboard
courts have been built in the southeastern part of
the field, while the northeastern section is reserved
for the preschool children. ,

GREENWICH,Connecti-
cut, has joined the
ranks of cities spend-
ing $1.00 or more per
Capita for a public recreation program. On No-
vember 12, 1940, when the budget of the Recrea-
tion Board was passed, it was increased from
$32,216 to $38,815. The population of Green-
wich, according to the 1940 census, is 35,285.

V)

THE increased use of
outdoor recreation fa—
cilities through the
night lighting of play—
grounds and fields has been made possible in sev-
eral communities by Lions clubs. In Shippens-
burg, Pennsylvania, the club built a skating rink
in _a large main-street field and is now working on
a lighting system. Lions of Valier, Illinois, re-
cently completed illuminating the athletic field
which can be used for both football and softball.
A new chapter in Grandview, Washington, lighted
the town athletic field at a cost of $1,500 for their
first big project. Lights have also been provided
in the outdoor town club which Hot Springs,
Montana, Lions built for the citizens and visitors
of the town.

$1.10 Per Capita for
Recreation

Night Lighting of
Playgrounds

EL SEGUNDO, Cali-
fornia, a community
with a population of
3,503, operates an
“Old-Timers’ Club” at an expense of $40 a month.
The city rented a store building and supplied
cards, cribbage and checker boards, chess games.
The rooms were equipped with radio, desks, tables,
and chairs which were donated by interested
citizens.

Community Club for
“Old-Timers”

TOTAL participation in
the nineteen events
sponsored by the In—
dustrial Athletic As-
sociation of metropolitan Oakland was 3,874, with
a total attendance of 94,067, according to the an-

47

Workers’ Recreation
in Oakland

 

48 WORLD AT PLAY

 

Here’s the

 

Super Ringer

“'5 the finest pitching horseshoe ever
made! Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
freated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know Jrhe value of a good Jtourne-
men’r shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND BALK HORSESHUEBO.
46|0 GRAND AVENUE

DULUTH. MINN. ’

nual report of the Association which has been dis-
tributed to the seventy-four member firms. Bas-
ketball was the most popular as far as attendance
was concerned with 27,291 watching the men’s
games and 9,600 the women’s. More than 1,326
men and women played the game. Men’s softball,
the next popular sport, had a participation of
1,080 and an attendance of 25,000 persons. La-
crosse drew an attendance of 1,842 with 56 play-
ing the game.

Adult Education and Defense—The Ameri-
can Association for Adult EdUCation, with head-
quarters at 60 East 42nd Street, New York City,
announces plans to relate the nation-wide adult
education movement to the national defense pro-
gram by increasing the number of community
adult education councils which offer to serve as the
educational arms of local defense committees, by
promoting a series of regional conferences on
adult education and defense, and by issuing pub-
lications relating to defense. The publications is-
sued to date include Defense Papers, Defense
Digests, and Community Councils in Action, all
dealing with defense in its broadest sense——“the

’3

defense of American culture. Further informa-
tion may be secured from the American Associa-
tion for Adult Education.

Sixth Annual Amateur Photo Contest—For
the sixth season the Union County, New Jersey,
Park Commission is holding its annual amateur
photo contest open to all persons living in Union
County. Rules of the contest required that all
photographs be taken between January I and
March 16. Awards are to be made in each one of
the following classes: (A) scenes; (B) special
park class—for best photos taken in the Union
County Park System; (C) general—any activity,
human interest, nature, portrait, still life, or other
photos which cannot be properly classified under
Class A or B. The prize winning prints, accom-
panied by a list showing the names of winners
and the awards, will be exhibited at ten different
public libraries throughout Union Connty.

Gains to Labor in Leisure — In Productivity,
Wages, and National Income, Pamphlet No. 23,
published by The Brookings Institution, Wash-
ington, D. C., the statement is made that in many
cases labor’s gains from productivity were merely
in the form of leisure. “If these gains in leisure
be reckoned in dollars at the hourly rates paid in
the various industries, the imputed gains would
amount to 1,086 millions in manufacturing, 150
millions in railroads, and 50 millions in the elec-
tric light and power industry. It is impossible to
make such a calculation for mining because of
inadequate data.”

Coronado Celebrates on Wheels—More than
27,000 pounds of stage properties, costumes, and
material are being transported over a 6,000-mi1e
itinerary for presentations of “The Entrada of
Coronado,” fourteen act drama of the arrival of
the Conquistadores in the Southwest 400 years
ago. In each of eighteen towns throughout Ari-
zona, New Mexico, Texas, and Colorado, new
casts of 500 to 800. local persons are being trained
for the show. This $100,000 play-on-wheels is
backed by the Federal Government.

Change in Price Noted—#In the March issue
of RECREATION the price of $1.90 was quoted for
The 1% erry Skibook, which was reviewed on page
757. Word has been received that the price of this
book is $1.00.

I ne treatment today

Good {or a season ’5 play!

ERE’S the modern agent for controlling

dust ’on earth surfaces. Gulf Sani-Soil-Set,
developed specifically for this job, has proved
its worth on playgrounds, athletic fields, and
tennis and badminton courts throughout the
country.

Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is odorless and non-stain-
ing, is non-toxic to skin abrasions and has
decided germicidal properties as well as ability
to keep dust in its proper place. Thus it gets rid
of the dust nuisance without introducing any of
the objectionable features associated with ordi-
nary types of dust control mediums.

One application is usually sufficient for a
whole season. And it’s simple to apply, too——
just distribute with a hand sprinkling can or a
sprinkling truck, depending on the size of the
area to be covered.

Don’t let another season pass without getting
the benefits of this economical dust allayer.

|—— — — — _ _ _ — _ — _ — — — —_i
|

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company R
3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the booklet
“Gulf Sani-Soil-Set for Treating Playgrounds.”

Write today for this

booklet for complete . I I
Information. I

Name

 

50 MUSIC’S GOOD NEIGHBORLINESS IN THE AMERICAS

  
    
    
 
 

 
 

HANDBOOK
MAKE BUCKTEX
VESTS

.. “ Complete instructions for 72

.' "on; 1'. 3.. educational leatheretaft proj-
' cundlscount' ects. Many shown for first
plus. stat. time in this 1941 edition. No
Ensltlon you tools for many items. From 5:
old. up. No obligation. Write today

HORTONCRAFT gamma:

 

 

Church Recreation—“The Youth Recrea-
tional Situation in the Toledo Protestant Churches”
is the subject of the thesis presented by James
Donald McKinley in partial fulfillment of the re-
quirements for his Degree of Master of Arts at
the University of the City of Toledo. Mr. Mc-
Kinley, who is Director of Activities at the Col-
lingwood Avenue Presbyterian Church, states
that his study of the work being done by the
city’s Protestant churches came about from the
realization‘ that the church is neglecting an im—
portant ally in its struggle to hold the young peo-
ple in the church' organization. He tells of a num-
ber of worthwhile programs but points out very
frankly the failure of the churches as a whole to
seize their opportunities. Findings and recom-
mendations are offered which will be of particular
interest at just this time.

Joseph Lee Fields in Canton, Ohio—Canton,
Ohio, has named two play areas “Lee Field” in
honor of Joseph Lee. One area is a three acre
play field which has been developed by WPA, and
the other is an athletic field containing two base-
ball diamonds and two softball diamonds.

Music’s Good Neighborliness

in the Americas

(Continued from page 10)
away or make us scornful, if not belligerent. Con-
sider the emotional meaning that the word “for-
eigner” often has that is not mentioned in the dic-
tionaries. The most vital need, then, in making
our hopes come true, is for an expanding of the
range of our sympathetic responsiveness. Fortu—
nately, it can be expanded in each of us, and
through music and dancing perhaps more readily
than through other media. Whenever we have
taken to ourselves. a new song or dance fraught
with real life that is different from any we have
appropriated inwardly before, we shall be all the
readier to respond to the next new song or dance

that is real and different, until we come positively
to reaching out toward what is unique and genu-
ine in music and in people, not turning away from
it or even merely tolerating it, but seeking it and
prizing it. Then we shall be well on the way
toward real democracy in our own America and
toward ePfectively friendly relationships with the
pe0ples of the other Americas.

If it is true that the enjoyment and learning of
any folk song or dance, of any other nationality
new to us, is a step toward fuller and keener
responsiveness to Latin-American music and
dances, we have still another suggestion to add to
those we have already made. Let any person or
group interested in the purposes mentioned herein
find out the dyed-in-the-wool folk singers and
dancers in or near his community and help them
to have there the influence that the Latin-Ameri—
can folk are having in Houston and Los Angeles.
Even our own traditional songs, square dances and
singing dances are a step toward the folk music
and people of other countries. And by all means
let him be a folk singer or dancer or both himself.
Almost everybody, perhaps everybody, was born
to be one, and it is never too late. to start.

Playing For a Stronger America
(Continued from page 23)

Whitaker, Commissioner of Canadian National
Parks, said at the National Recreation Congress,
“Even the military can not make men out of
\veaklings, save at high cost, and it is far more
economical to build up physically the young genera-
tion by providing outdoor interests and exercises.”

It will not be long before such beliefs become
widespread throughout the country. If the recrea-
tion movement rises to the occasion it will
strengthen its position as one of the most vital and
important forces in the building of.a newer and
better national life for all the generations to come.

A Fortieth Anniversary Program
(Continued from page 44)

EPISODE VI—1925. Sports reign. (Sports pro—
cession, athletic drill, and living statues.)

EPISODE VII—1929. Recreation for all. (Hal-
lowe’en parade and tennis drill.)

EPISODE V III—1935. Grounds being beautified.
(Flower dance.)

'EPISODE IX—194o. A great playground band.
(A concert was given.)

EPISODE X—Finale.

(Continued on page 52)

  

     
   
 
       
   
     
   
 
  

IOQMItes mg «003/

-‘\ t
'1‘ v1,“

‘yt. .—  ‘-

—IS THE BEST REASON WE KNOW FOR USING SHORTER
LENGTH BATS THAT HAVE A FASTER SWING SPEED

The loss of a split second in bringing the bat around to meet the pitch tells the story
of success or failure. It is surprising indeed to find the big difference even an inch

taken off the end of a bat can make in its Swing Speed. Experience has proved
that a 34” bat is of ideal length regardless of weight. Please remember
when ordering your Louisville Sluggers the importance of Swing
Speed and give us a chance to supply you shorter length
bats made of the very best ash.

HILLERICH G BRADSBY CO.. INC.
LOUISVILLE. KENTUCKY

Study these   ‘
pictures of Joe .  I,  
D r M a g a s o ‘ ,y‘   

    
    
 
     
    
   

stepping into a

meager _   .    " " mummamnsw

the American
League’s cur-
rent baseball
motion. picture.

   

 

51

52 JOSEPH LEE MEMORIAL CONTEST FOR RECREATION LITERATURE

Western Reserve University

School of Applied Social Sciences
Cleveland, Ohio

announces a

EGroUp Work Institute

June 9th through 20th. |94l I

Open to a limited number of group workers
who are graduates of an accredited college or
university and who have had two or more years

of professional experience in group work.
C owner in:

Practice of Group Work . . . . . . . . . . .MISS COYLE and
MR. ROBERTS
Understanding of Individuals in Groups. .MRS. FARRAR

Analysis of Program Activities.....MR. BOWER and
MR. WEINANDY

For fart/oer detail: send for the
Special Folder

The regular two-year program in social work. leading
to the degree of Master of Science in Social Admin-
istration. opens on September 22nd for the academic
year I94I-l942. Application should be made immedi-
ately to Professor ELIZABETH P. LYMAN.

Director of Admissions.

A Fortieth Anniversary Program
(Continued from page 50)

The final event of the year was a fortieth anni-
versary banquet held in the largest hotel ballroom
in the city. This particular affair was sponsored
by the Playground Federation composed of thirty-
two neighborhood parents’ playground associa-
tions. Again, all pioneers were invited as well as
city and school officials. The main address was
given by the Honorable Paul N. Schaeffer, judge
of the county courts and also judge of the juve-
nile court. Judge Schaeffer spoke on “What Rec-
reation Means to Our City” and strongly advo-
cated that the citizens support the existing De—
partment of Public Recreation. Approximately
two hundred mothers, fathers, and public officials
crowded every nook and corner of the ballroom,
and at the conclusion of the event decided to make
the banquet an annual affair.

Newspapers were generous in giving valuable
front page space and editorials to all anniversary
events throughout the year. Readers of newspa-
pers read the stories eagerly because the names of
people who were responsible for the growth of the

 

Joseph Lee Memorial Contest

For Recreation Literature

HE SOCIETY OF RECREATION WORKERS of
America announces the second annual Joseph
Lee Memorial Contest for Recreation Literature.
The purpose of this contest is to encourage pro-
fessional recreation workers to write, not so much
on the philosophy of the movement as on the
techniques of doing the work, and thus to enrich
the body of scientific knowledge of the profession.
First Prize—Joseph Lee Memorial Plaque
Second Prize—Certificate of Merit
Third Prize—Certificate of Merit
The awards will be presented at the Society’s
annual meeting in October. Final selections will be
made by a competent board of judges after pre—
liminary judging by the Committee on Publications.

Rules of the Contest

I. All members in good standing in the Society of
Recreation Workers of America are eligible to
enter.

2. The closing date of the contest is May I 5, 1941.

3. Papers are to be no more than 2,500 words.

4. Manuscripts must be typewritten on one side
of paper only.

5. Manuscripts must be furnished in triplicate.
(This is to expedite and facilitate judging.)

6. Each manuscript must bear the name, address,
position, and organization of the writer in the
upper left-hand corner of the first page.

7. N o manuscript will be returned unless accom-
panied by return cover and sufficient postage.

8. The privilege is reserved by the Society of Rec-
reation Workers of America to publish any
manuscripts submitted.

9. Address all manuscripts to Wayne C. Sommer,
Chairman, Committee on Publications, Y.M.
C.A., Reading, Pennsylvania.

playground and recreation program over a period
of four decades were known to them.

The development of Reading’s recreation pro-
gram from private playgrounds to a tax-supported
municipal, year-round recreation system may truly
be attributed to the people of the city. This is
democracy in action!

A Children's May Carnival

(Continued from page 15)
carnival. It should be as nearly perfect as plan—

ning and practice can make it. Several groups

A CHILDREN’S IMAY CARNIVAL

Tim
“Capacity for recreation
and the impulse to play
are inborn in every human
being, but they can attain
only a rudimentary ex-
pression until the skills

and arts of recreation are
acquired. — Recreation,

October, 1941.

AUTHORS
E. DE ALTON PARTRIDGE

e Out for Living

THIS INTRIGUING title introduces a new, fascinating book for
young people of high school age. It is brimful of stimulating,
practical suggestions about the worthwhile use of leisure time.

Here is a wide range of hobbies for boys and girls which
offers many an inviting choice. They can be undertaken and
carried on at little or no expense. Many of them will become a
lifelong pleasure. Among these leisure-time pursuits are hiking

and camping, photography, amateur astronomy, leathercraft,

marionettes, bird study, amateur social service, archery, music

53

Assistant Professor of
Education, New Jersey
State Teachers College

and

CATHERINE MOONEY

Vice-Principal
Wilson Junior High School
Passaic, N. I.

662 pages List price $2.00

of young people.

appreciation, etc., etc.

The richness of illustration, the friendly spirit and humor,

the variety of interests, and the inviting, conversational style

make Time Out for Living an inspirational guide for any group

AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY

NEW YORK. CINCINNATI CHICAGO

should be taught the dance together with the
promise that the best dancers may participate in
the carnival. This makes the actual performance
the achievement of a well-earned goal.

Other types of dancing may augment the pro-
gram. Tap or novelty dances can be used between
the regular acts.

Funny Men. These performers are different from
the clowns. They may represent Irish, Scotch, or
Negro comics, but these actors must be fairly
expert in their roles. Musicians may be dressed
as different characters, if desired.

If the amount of talent does not seem to fill the
need, a short amateur skit or playlet may be just
the thing to add. Dramatic dances, poetic or musi—
cal skits may be included, but they should be
short. The crowd is carnival-minded and anything
that lags will bore them.

The show itself should not be over an hour
long, the Maypole dance excluded. And it is best
to have the show absolutely free of charge.

Dancing

Social dancing may be planned for the carnival
if a good floor, free of other activity, can be pro-
cured on the grounds. Old-fashioned or modern

BOSTON

ATLANTA DALLAS

SAN FRANCISCO

dances may bé conducted with a small fee for a
set or dance. If the carnival committee cannot
produce a show, dancing may be the answer for
the free attraction of the evening, with the May-
pole dance as the main event.

In this district it has been found unadvisable to
mix the old-fashioned and the modern, and the
preference is for the old-fashioned dances at a
May carnival.

Financing

If recreation is the first consideration of the
carnival, financing is second. The financial back-
ing should be guaranteed before final plans take
form. Should this arrangement be impossible, each
group might stand back of its own expenses. If
there are enough separate groups, a prize might be
offered for the most attractive booth or the best
performance.

Charge should be made according to the finan-
cial aim of the carnival, made known among those
who may attend. In spite of the good will of the
pe0ple, however, they are not going to attend a
carnival—even though they SUpplied all of the
cakes l—if there is no worth-while recreation for
them to enjoy.

(Continued on page 58)

A SCHOOL BECOMES A RECREATION CENTER

5 MONTHS’
TRIAL
0FFER

. . . your opportunity

your name, address, and a dollar bill
are all you need to receive one of the
most stimulating and helpful school
magazinesds months’ trial oHer of the

Junior Arts and Activities
magazine for only

$1.00

. . . our opportunity

to prove to you the reason teachers
are turning to this new type. of crea-
tive schoolwork and methods. Un-
equalled in the amount of usable proi-
ect material in each issue. If not en-
tirely satisfied with first copy—~your
money will be refunded. Mail today,
really to become acquainted with one
and receive the next five issues of

Junior- Arts 82 Activities

DEPT. R

740 RUSH STREET CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

 

A School

Becomes 3 Recreation Center

BOARDMAN RECREATION CENTER, the most recent
addition to the municipal recreation facilities
of Cambridge, Massachusetts, was formally dedi-
cated on Friday evening, January I 7, 1941. After
a brief program of addresses by officials of the
Park and Library Departments, the building was
open to the general public for inspection. Activi-
ties at the new center were inaUgurated on Mon-
day, January 20th.

Boardman Center is under the control of the
Park Department, and the program is being ad—
ministered through the Recreation Division of the
Department of which Stephen H. Mahoney is
Superintendent. The upper floor is a combined
auditorium and gymnasium. The main floor has a
foyer, two large club recreation rooms, and a
branch public library. In the basement are locker
rooms, 'shower baths, toilets, a workshop, and the
heating plant. '

The building is directly opposite the Federal
Housing Project known as Newtowne Court. It
was formerly the Boardman School and had been
abandoned for school purposes some years ago:
Realizing its possibilities for use as a recreation
center, the Park Department officials secured a
WPA project to reconstruct and renovate the
structure. During a period of nearly two years

-extensive work was carried on to transform the

building for its new use. The basement was low-
ered, the walls braced, the roof trussed, partitions
were removed and new stairways, walls, doors,
and windows were installed. The heating, plumb-
ing, and electrical systems are completely new
and modern. Visitors who recall the former con-
dition of the building are greatly impressed by the
transformation. '

Three. full-time recreation workers have been
assigned to the center by Stephen H. Mahoney,
Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, and a
number of part-time workers are in charge of
special groups. In the period during which the
program has been in operation, the wisdom of the
municipal recreation department in providing this
section of the city with facilities for indoor recre-
ation has been apparent.

Clubs for boys, girls, men and women have been
organized, and present activities include gym-
nasium classes, handcraft, music, dramatics, and
social dancing. The groups represented comprise
all ages from small children to adults. '

BUILDING THE MORALE OF OUR ARMED FORCES 55

Building the Morale of Our

Armed Forces
(Continued from page 43)

needed to some degree for civilians where other-
wise the absence of medical care might lead to
epidemics.

Some families, both of construction workers
and of other civilians looking for jobs or expect-
ing to serve the needs of the camps are going to
be stranded. To let those families go hungry has
its repercussions on the community and therefore

on the camp.

Problems of Commercialized Vice

One of the best advertised problems has to do
with the importation of prostitutes by commercial
interests and the spread of venereal disease. The
position of the Army and Navy and of my agency
is clear and unequivocal. There is just one thing
to do with prostitution and that is to suppress it.
That may not mean that it can be entirely stamped
out, but I believe that we can set up procedures
whereby the commanding officers receive the full-
est cooperation from local law enforcement of-
ficials supplemented by state officials, so that it is
reduced to a minimum.

The experience of the last war and of many
situations since that time has demonstrated that
this is the only way in which the medical problem
can be handled. We can rely on the moral forces
within the camps and in the communities outside
to play their fullest part in this program.

I am expecting to get the best man available in
the country for my staff to direct this approach.

A hearing is being held tomorrow on the May
bill which will make commercialized vice a federal
offense outside the camp in the area fixed by the
Secretary of War and the Secretary of Navy. A
similar statute was used only four times in the
last war, and we hope that this one, when it is
passed by Congress, will be required no more
frequently. We want local communities to do the
job, but we are going to insist that the job be done.

Voluntary Service Bureaus

We look forward to the organization in all of
these defense areas of voluntary service bureaus
under whatever plan the President may eventually
determine where all volunteers may be registered,

 

SPORTS EQUIPMENT 3

For Playground and

Recreational Departments

 . J Complete Line of
 -~‘ Equipment for all Sports

JOHN AND FINDLAY STS, CINCINNATI, OHIO

 

trained, if necessary, and related to local activities
where they will be most effective. Such a bureau
should also stimulate the use of volunteers by
ex15ting organizations.

Thus, all working together, we should be able
to maintain for soldier and civilian in defense a
well—rounded normal life. That in itself will help
to clarify and establish our American ideal—one
nation indivisible, whose service is perfect free—
dom, which fights for justice for all.

Indian Handicraft—Headdress Kit

“for the youth who likes to create”

0 Write for particulars about our Headdress Kit.
Consists of a complete set of colorful feathers,
materials, and instructions on how to make an

elaborate and authentic war bonnet. Reason-
ably priced.

AMERICAN FEATHER I30.

693 Broadway New York City

56 A LEGACY FROM THE WORLD’S FAIR!

St0p Money Leaks

"How to stop the leaks and plug the holes
in the Amusement and Recreation Field."

Invaluable information for every operator
of Amusement Parks, Pools, Beaches and

Recreation Centers. This book will help
YOU!

Write for FREE copy TODAY
MONEY-METERS, Inc.

Dept. C PROVIDENCE. R. I.

 

 

 

Wild Flower Preserve Created

ISTORIC BOWMAN’S HILL in Bucks County,

Pennsylvania, is now a living museum of
wild flowers, a perpetual memorial to its Revolu—
tionary fame. A small observation tower, erected
many years ago on the site of the! hill where
VVashington’s men kept a sharp lookout while
waiting the opportunity to cross the Delaware,
was the only landmark to commemorate the spot
until \VPA created the wild flower preserve where
more than thirty thousand of the plants and flow—
ers native to Pennsylvania are now to be found.
In 1935 the VVPA cleared and improved the
grounds, cut trails through the heavily wooded
land, graded land for pools and marshy areas for
the wild plant life that can grow only in such
places, and did the work necessary to make the
park accessible to nature students. Some 300
species of plants, fiowers, and native Pennsylvania
trees were already found growing there. On a
second project a botanical unit of WPA workers
identified and classified between 50,000 and 60,000
plant and flower specimens collected for the
preserve.

After five years of development the preserve is
fiourishing. Trails are studded with flowers. The
artificially created bogs and swamps have their
orchids, the pools their lilies. Spring, summer, and
fall find blooming there a succession of types of
wild flowers and plants.

Ensuring Safety in the Use of

Playground Facilities
(Continued from page 31)

Safety clubs

Safety patrols

Posters

Articles in playground newspapers

Safety plays and dramatizations

Storytelling periods stressing familiar accidents
Bulletin board notices

Safety films, slides, and pictures

A Legacy from the World’s Fair!

HE FIRST RECREATIONAL UNIT in Flushing

Meadow Park, the site of the New York
World’s Fair, is a combination ice skating rink
and roller skating rink which was opened to the
people of New York City within about three
months of the closing of the W orld’s Fair. These
rinks are in the City of New York Building on
the former Fair ground———one of the few Fair
buildings which were planned to be permanent.
At the end of the first week the Park Department
officials announced that 16,5 37 skaters had already
used the rinks.

The ice skating rink is 168 feet long and 120
feet wide. Brine piping, the chief element in the
freezing process, was laid beneath the concrete
floor of the City of New York Building when it
was constructed for the Fair two years ago. The
room temperature is kept at 52 degrees and the
temperature of the brine pipes lowered to 18 de-
grees. The fioor is then flooded and freezing im-
mediately sets in. The ice is from IV; to 1%
inches thick and this section of the rink will be
equipped with an ice planer hitched up to a tractor
which will shave the surface down periodically for
conditioning.

The roller skating rink is I 50 feet long and I20
feet wide. The floor for this rink is of hard maple
laid over the concrete.

The double rink has diffused lighting, a public
address system, and music provided by radio and
phonograph.

The Department of Parks has scheduled two
skating sessions for every day, including Sunday,
the first from 1:30 to 5 :30 P. M., and the second
from 7 :30 to II P. M. Admission in the afternoon
is 20 cents and in the evening 35 cents. Children
under fourteen are admitted free on Saturdays
from 10 o’clock until noon.

Patrons may rent both types of skates at the
rink. There is a cafeteria on the second floor of
the building which will be open continuously and
on the main floor a concessionair'e will sell ham-
burgers, hot dogs, and soft drinks.

 

 

Contests—posters, essays

Talks by director, traBic officers, and other
officials

Constant vigilance and attention to the safety
precautions offered can do much toward support-

ing the belief that fifty per cent of all accidents are
preventable.

ANOTHER FAIR IS COMING 57

Another Fair Is Coming

WHY, HEDGED about with comforts and diver-
sions, are New Yorkers still homesick for
the Fair? What makes the gap it left in metro-
politan life? Our markets are a treasuryof health,
offering citizens every day in the year the strength
of earth and sun. Some hold that safe, abundant
water is the town’s chief blessing, while many
naturally put first its thousand stimuli to culture.
What all agree upon is that there never was such
a place for entertainment, every day and almost
every hour. Those who prefer not to think are
seldom obliged to do so; there’s always a show to
prevent it. And if constant, accessible amusement
could do away with loneliness and dullness we
should be the most gleeful and sunny-hearted set
on earth. But where on the island is diversion
with sociability? That’s what the World’s Fair
brought, in a plentitude unknown since days when
Manhattan was a little Dutch burg.

Now that its happy-go—lucky delights are dust,
and going out once more means sitting in a big
dark room or in the presence of food, it is clear
that New York’s literally crying need is akermesse,
a verbena, a talky general store or some kind of
fair to which the whole neighborhood goes for a
change, a sip, an unprogrammed breath.

Our climate smiles upon verbenas (an outdoor
evening of strolling, flirting and refreshment,
rather like a strawberry sociable) for only a few
months of the year, and, of course, the store, with
free dried applies, a curled cat and box seats is too
much to hope for just yet. But they do say a
county fair is coming to animate the Garden in
September. This is a sign that Manhattan’s yearn-
ing for sociability and ambulating evenings out
has been observed by great powers which in time
will find a way to satisfy it. They took note of
rebudding folkways at the Fair, such as the
crocheting bee—almost a quilting party. Some-
thing descended from a picnic at the old chestnut
grove is ahead; somewhere we New Yorkers shall
meet, shall “promenade ourselves.” Perhaps,
starting in June, the order could be: strawberry
sociable, peach festival, county fair, corn husking,
apple drying, Hallowe’en, and after the major holi-
days have been spent en famille, as usual, a civic
snow fight, singing school and egg hunt. There is
a bright promise of all these joys in the very name
of the American Institute of the City of New
York which is sponsoring the first local county
fair of the century. If pre-eminent pumpkins and

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

As Originally
Developed by . . .

DR. FORREST C.
“PHOG” ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University or Kansas
Lawrence. Kansas

 

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-
ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating-

exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Under Exclusive License Agreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
3524 DeKalb Street It a D a. no 8 St. Louis. MO.

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

-—-———'———————_-I—._—_——_n

 

stoneboat pulls are coming, then lost sociability,
too, can return to town. Fair ahead—Reprinted by
permission from the New York Herald Tribune,
February 16, 1941.

 

 

Of HSinging America"
(Continued from page 32)
joyousness and love of nature and of neighbors
that are typical of the Polish spirit; Walking
Song—a favorite among the “\Vandervogel” and
other hiking youth of Germany as well as among
the Swiss; Spring—known and loved by Swedish
people everywhere; At Sunset—heard among
Finnish people in Minnesota and in New York.

These records, made by the RCA Manufactur-
ing Company, Inc., Camden, New Jersey, are avail-
able at 50 cents each. The four records, in an at—
tractive album with a leaflet of explanatory notes,
may be secured at $2.50. The records may be
ordered through the National Recreation Asso-

, ciation.

The RCA Manufacturing Company, Inc., will

58 WHAT ONE GIRL LIKES

What One Girl Likes

- PLAY SAFE

WITH

SAFEBAT

PREVENT ACCIDENTS WITH THIS

RUBBER COVERED
SOFTBALL BAT

Safe . . Durable .

Write for Information

SAFEBAT COMPANY, Castile, New York

. POpular

. Noiseless .

broadcast the records on its program of April
22nd, which is listed as the “Music You Want
When You Want It” program. The program as a
rule is scheduled for 10 :30 or II :00 o’clock in the
evening.

“1’5 Bein Done in Nature Recreation
9
(Continued from page 42)

“Science Congress.” The American Institute,
60 East 42nd St., New York, 34 pp. $.25. Definite
directions for planning a congress. Illustrated.

“The Science Counselor” is the title of an at-
tractive quarterly journal for teachers of science
in the Catholic High Schools, Duquesne Uni-
versity Press, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Town Forests. Pennsylvania has recently cre-
ated the Community Forest Council for the ad-
vancement of toWn forests. Fifteen hundred
towns, cities and counties now own more than
three million acres. The Massachusetts Forest and
Park Association initiated the movement in the

'nited States in 1914. ‘
Wildlife. “Feeding Wildlife in Winter.” Farm-

ers Bulletin 1783, Superintendent of Documents,.

Washington, D. C. Five cents.

Zinc. “The Zinc Industry,” a thirty-two page
pamphlet, free, from the American Zinc Institute,
60 East 42nd Street, New York. This is an inter-
esting story giving history, uses and production.

A Children's May Carnival
(Continued from page 53)

For the strictly recreational carnival there are
two ways of financing. First, a nominal charge-—
an entrance fee—may be made to defray expenses.
Second, there may be enough monies in the treas-
ury of the recreation committee to finance the

 

 

" 'I LOVE LIFE so I want to live’ has been my

motto through the present seventeen-year
period,” quoth Joanna Jackson. “My vital statis-
tics include birth on March 26, 1923, and gradua-
tion from Charlestown High School in January,
1940, with highest scholastic ranking, for which I
received a gold medal as an award by the local
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa and the subsequent
title of ‘General Jackson.’ In High School I was
a member of the National Honor Society, of

. Quill and Scroll, of the dramatic and glee clubs,

of the staff of the school paper, and of the student
paper. I like chemistry in concentrated form, but
I plan to major in voice and study next fall either
at Oberlin or Miami University, with Juilliard
Conservatory as my ultimate goal. I like collect-
ing miniature glass animals, singing, of course,
tennis, ping-pong, ice skating, swimming, walking
in the rain, writing, reading, playing the piano,
organ, violin, and accordion, eating chocolate
eclairs, and talking.” From Student Life, Octo-
ber, 1940.

carnival as a seasonal dramatic production. Blessed
are those who rise to this occasion!

In all, the May carnival should typify May in
all her glory and gaiety. Garlands of roses, arti-
ficial or real, and other May flowers should be
used in profusion. And, most important, every-
body should have a memorable time—at a mini-
mum of financial expense and headaches for the
hard-working committee.

SAVING THE BOYS’ CLUB 59

Saving the Boys' Club

HEN THE BUILDING that the Hamtramck,

Michigan, Boys’ Club was using was to be
sold, the club was confronted with the prospect of
disbanding unless new quarters could be found.
An appeal went out for help and a warm response
came from an unusual source—from the convicts
at the state prison at Jackson. The prison paper
carried an editorial from which the following
statement is quoted:

“The inability of the club to provide a meeting
place for these boys will throw them onto the
street corners, into beer gardens, pool rooms and
into places where you wouldn’t want your kid
brother to be. Each of you men in this prison
today knows what a dirty and ugly place prison
is. Each of you men knows that a prison does
things to a man which no amount of later free-
dom can erase. And each of you has at one time
or another, for for one reason or another, re-
gretted the things which turned your feet unto
paths that led to the cell you occupy. No one un—
derstands prison degradations better than you
men in the cells, and no one, underneath the bitter-
ness, sympathizes more with the lot of his fellow
men than do you who wear numbers on your
shirts.”

These convicts know that somewhere back in
their early lives something happened that led by
a roundabout way to the cell door. They realized
more than anyone else that some good influence
along that road might have made them choose a
different way, so that prisoners at Jackson went to
the rescue of the Hamtramck kids. They staged a
highly successful benefit boxing show and fund-
raising campaign, and today the Hamtramck Boys’
Club is going stronger than ever. From Youth
Leaders Digest, December 1940.

Adventuring in Folkways
(Continued from page 19)

of American folk expression which has been kept
alive in their hearts because they live in a country
where they can think as they like about religion,
education, recreation and choose their own voca-
tion in life. They have brought with them from
their native homelands those traditions closest to
their daily life, and which have become increas-
ingly dear to them today, since for some there no
longer exists that homeland!

The Folk Festival Association has done much

 
  

HE Second Edition of
our "GOOD MORNING" manual on
early American dancing should be in the
library of every teacher and student of
physical training, recreation director, com-
munity leader, club and summer camp.

 
 
      
   
   
 

The book, with reinforced binding permitting the
pages to lie flat when opened, is 7 by 10% inches
and contains music and descriptions of 41 dances
now being taught in universities, colleges and public
schools throughout America. It includes authentic
quadrille music, waltz quadrilles, Lancers, minuet,
contra and couple dances, diagrams, and 17 singing

calls, the words of which fit the movements of the
dance. *

 
       
   
   
   
     
 

0 Order your copy now.
Single copies 50c.
Orders for five or more 25::

Our first edition of "Good Morning." a textbook
on early American dancing, is still available and
contains information not included in the second vol-
ume. Prices on this edition are the same as those
quoted for the second book. In ordering, please
mention whether the first or second edition is desired.

 
      
      
   
       
   
 

Please address all communications to:

BENI. B. LOVETT

Lovett Hall
The Edison Institute Dearborn. Michigan

 
       
 

in its eight years’ existence to awaken people to
the fact that within our country is a vast store-
house of native talent, the heritage of a pioneering
people. If the traditional expressions existing in
the United States had no roots in the past, no pos-
sibility in the future, the joy that comes through
their use today would be sufficient reason for the
national and community festivals. Some of these
people never before realized that others would re-
ceive their expression sympathetically and have
therefore not worked at preserving it. Now they
are proud to offer their songs, dances and stories,
not for any material gain themselves but because
they love the things these traditions stand for and

Ever Wear 

Playground Apparatus

Basketball Backstops

Swimming Pool Equipment
Write for Catalogs Today

EVERWEAR

Manufacturing Company
SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

 

 

 

FREE

Dept. H

60 PLAYLOTS AT 350 EACH

 

LnllnEN

in Praise—Winning Use All Over the World

LOUDEN playground equipment is honor-

built from only highest grade materials
by master craftsmen; it is designed by experi-
enced engineers who know what playground
equipment must be; it is backed by the 72-
year-old reputation for quality manufactur-
ing and fair-dealing behind the J. E. Porter
Corporation. And yet—it costs the leasr be-
cause it outwears ordinary equipment by far.

‘

Write for Our Catalog
Address: Dept. R-I

11
THE I. E. PORTER couponnrron

OTTAWA t ILLINOIS

 

Manufacturers of the famous "London." "Chicago" and "Spaldlnq"
lines of playground. gymnasium and swimming pool equipment

they believe keeping them alive will enrich a coun—
try in which they have been permitted to be free!
There is not a state which does not hold within its
borders some folk art. All that is needed is a
leader with a vision and the ability and knowl—
edge to recognize the authentic expression. Recre-
ation directors should be on the alert for this
talent, or should find someone in their community
who knows about traditional expressions. Pre-
sentation of folk culture makes for better under-
standing among racial groups in a community. An
intelligent use of these traditional songs, dances,
and stories goes far in making possible a richer
cultural life.

From the South comes the Negro with his
melodious spirituals. The West is rich in its cow-
boy ballads and the religious Indian ceremonials.
The Northwest has its lumberjacks with their
typical evenings in a bunk house, and the rural
folk their square dances. The coast towns send
their old sailors to sing again their chanties, and
from the cities come foreign groups in colorful cos-
tumes of their native lands to perform dances. All
these combine to form a lovely pattern of simple
everyday philosophy uncomplicated by the rush
and bustle of a busy world.

From the humorous mountain ditty to the great
religious music each person attending the eighth
annual festival will gain inspiration, and all will
go back to their communities to encourage their
own people in keeping alive the line old traditions
that in some places are all too soon allowed to
die out or are being replaced with mediocre
amusements. '

Playlots at $50 Each
(Continued from page 13)

was a disappointment to the playlot neighborhoods.
There were several good reasons for this limitation :

By eliminating swings, slides, etc., we were able
to get the exceedingly low insurance rate.

We had set a $50 contribution limit. It was felt
that we could secure more donors at $50 than if
we asked for $75 or $100. We also had in mind
that poorer neighborhoods would be encouraged
to “pass the hat” and collect that amount. This
proved to be a correct assumption, for several
neighborhoods did just that.

We hoped that the neighbors would be so dis-
appointed that they would do something to im-
prove their play area and make it their own project.

We received a good many telephone calls, and
during the initial stages we were not sure that
the psychology of discontent would give us the
desired results. But the second phase, that of do-
ing something for themselves, was a joy to be-
hold! All manner of schemes to raise funds were
developed. Fathers and older brothers pitched in
and worked every night and holidays. Swings,
slides, wading pools, fences, flower gardens, shrub—
bery, shelters, were added. On each inspection
trip of the playlots the youngsters, as well as the
committeerrien, showed with delightful pride the
improvements that had been made since the last
trip. It was their playlot. You can depend upon
it, there was no vandalism.

We were informed that improvements on these
playlots cost from $85.00 up to as much as
$2,000. This was community enterprise at its best.
For years many of these same communities had
beseiged City Council for playgrounds. Their
street accidents and fatalities had taken a yearly
toll. It had seemed to them a hopeless situation,
something that they had to put up with. Then one
morning they read the Inquirer, which stated that

A LITERATURE “SHOW/ER” FOR SERVICE MEN 61

a playground could be had for $50. All that they
had to do was to ask for one or raise the money
themselves. “Why haven’t we thought of using
the nearby vacant lots as a playground instead of
a dump?” “Let’s get busy, neighbors, and save
our children, get them off the dangerous streets,”
were typical of neighborhood reactions. Here was
hope {here was a plan and here were organizations
to help them put it through, to make it a'reality.
After all these years they could have playgrounds
where none had existed. The neighbors got busy
and kept busy all summer, and not the least of the
satisfactory results achieved was the record of
only one serious accident, though the season’s at—-
tendance mounted to 229,065 boys and girls.

Playlot Federation

On the evening of March 10th, local committees
formed the Philadelphia Playlot Federation.
Plans for the coming season were made and a
sense of permanency was prevalent. One had the
feeling that these citizens will continue their ef—
forts to provide play facilities for their communi-
ties until they have demonstrated the very real
need for the city to take over and make provision
for a permanent standard playground service.
Who knows but that these temporary playlots may
be the beginning of a new method of expanding
play service by the municipality?

A Literature "Shower" for Service Men

(Continued from page 27)
libraries, clubs, and outlying collection centers.

Posters made by NYA were used in the schools.
Two radio broadcasts and generous space in the
press acquainted the public with the campaign.
Paramount News took many scenes which were
shown not only in Philadelphia, but elsewhere in
the nation. A Life magazine photographer was
also assigned.

There can be no doubt this campaign served
several purposes: It is giving the soldiers and sail-
ors wholesome pleasure during their leisure, when
it is not always easy to know what to do; it is
helping their morale; it is giving the children and
citizens of our city an opportunity to do some—
thing for the men in uniform, and it is pointing
the way to more extensive community enterprises
in the National Defense Program.

Such a campaign is easy to organize and the
press will give generous support since it' does not
involve a financial campaign and at the present
moment is considered “news.”

6% W «142% plead/re
SAFE, COMFORTABLE SEATING

    

Physical comfort. plus mental ease will do much to stimulate
interest in your recreational program. Universal bleachers,
either Steel or Wood, will safely support loads far in excess
of any normal requirement. These bleachers are roomy and
comfortable, the rise is designed for full visibility without
excessive height in the stands. They are fully portable and can
be moved about the field or indoors with minimum effort.

The Universal line includes; Steel and Wood Portable
Bleachers and Grandstands, also Steel Folding Bleachers for
permanent use indoors.

\Vrite today for descriptive bulletins; our engineering
department will gladly aid you with your seating problems.

UNIVERSAL BLEACHER CO.

CHAMPAIGN, ILLINOIS
_

Ninety Minutes a Week?
(Continued from page 20)

the athletic programs are carried out. Of course
the winter season limits our activities and has
created several problems. During the spring and
summer, midshipmen will be able to exercise in
Chicago’s public parks, and summer sports will
be in order.

The Program

The athletic program consists of the activities
for which facilities are available, and men are
enrolled for handball, squash, boxing, wrestling,
weight lifting, fencing, basketball, touch football,
bowling, table tennis, swimming, and ice skating.
By grouping the midshipmen in sections, all of
these activities can be conveniently carried out
with a minimum of confusion.

For a time we experimented with active low
organized games, but found them impracticable be-
cause of space limitations. Through the plan fol—
lowed we have been able to give all the midship-
men their choice of activities with only a slight
increase in the work of organization. This has
aroused enthusiasm and has been the source of

62 RADIO AND THE FARM HOME

much satisfaction. With men from all sections of
the United States it has been interesting to
observe that all enjoy and do well in the same ac-
tivities. The only noticeable difference has been
the interest displayed by men from the South in
ice skating.

Considerable enthusiasm has been developed
through tournament play. The Midshipmen’s
School is a regiment consisting 0f two battalions.
There are three companies in one battalion and
four in the other, with approximately one hun-
dred and thirty men to the company. The com-
panies are divided into two platoons, and these in
turn are divided into four squads. We have or-
ganized inter-platoon and company competition in
all of the athletic activities. Midshipmen are ap-
pointed as captains of each sport, and are made
responsible for carrying out each one.

Extracurricular activities such as a school pub-
lication, year book, or weekly social affairs or-
ganized by the midshipmen have been discouraged
because of the intensity of the curricular program.
In addition to the athletic phases of our program,
however, there are a number of activities which
the midshipmen can engage in during their leisure
hours. Tournaments in chess and checkers and
table tennis have been organized. The early eve-
ning hours from chow to study period on Tues-
day and Thursday are spent in group singing.
Old sea chanteys, camping songs, and popular
pieces are always in the song leader’s repertoire.
This group singing is proving very beneficial in
acquainting midshipmen with their classmates, and
it is an excellent preliminary to an evening of
hard study.

Our location is fortunate with respect to radio
broadcasting studios. During liberty hours each
week a limited number of midshipmen can be ac-
commodated at radio programs at WGN, WLS,
W MAQ, and WBBM. The Chicago Planetarium,
the Art Institute, the Field Museum, and other
public buildings have been a continual source of
recreation.

Churches of all denominations have been very
helpful in offering their facilities for social use.
In keeping with Navy tradition, the midshipmen
have no trouble in getting acquainted with the
fairer sex through social activities sponsored by
the churches, clubs, and Northwestern University.

At the close of the three months’ term the mid—
shipmen hold a dinner dance in one of Chicago’s
fashionable hotels, and several days later they

receive their coveted Ensign’s commissions in the
Naval Reserve.

It has often been said that a business which can
start and prosper in times of depression is assured
of success. We feel that this applies as well to
our recreation program. We have gotten under—
way in the most difficult season of the year. Our
programs have been limited entirely to indoor
activities. With the coming of spring and the
opportunity to take advantage of outdoor facili-
ties as well as those already mentioned, the mid-
shipmen will have increasing ways of spending
their leisure in a wholesome way.

Radio and the. Farm Home
(Continued from page 40)

Chicago Round Table: Sunday, N.B.C.
The World Is Yours, Smithsonian Institute: Sun-
day, N.B.C.

Local papers and radio guides list the hours of
these and other programs for any section of the
country. Bulletins and other program material
can be secured from the offices of the National
Chains in New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles,
from state colleges of agriculture, the United
States Department of Agriculture, and the Radio
Institute of the Audible Arts, 80 Broadway, New
York City.

A good live or six tube table model of any
standard make is best. Many line programs are
available over short wave, and the absence of ad-
vertising comes as a welcome relief to those who
protest against commercialization. In most sections,
such a table model as suggested will bring in sta-
tions from two hundred to four hundred miles
away in the daytime, and up to 2,000 miles and
more at night. Sets should be turned down to the
lowest possible volume consistent with satisfac-
tory listening, for loud tuning adds materially to
nervous strain and does not give the best recep-
tion. New models eliminate the outside wires so
that they can be used anywhere in and about the
house; the latest portable radios are proving very
satisfactory, as are the combination battery and
plug-in sets. The kitchen is an excellent room for
a radio in farm houses. In warmer weather in
New England, the radio can be placed on the
“back porch”; in the middle west, on the “ver-
anda” ; in the southwest and on the Pacific coast,
in the “patio”; but whatever the place, radio can
be a great source of education, entertainment, rec-
reation, and fun for all members of the family.

   

The Design and DeveIOpment of

Picnic Grounds

By Laurie Davidson Cox. Bulletin No. 21. New York
State College Of Forestry, Syracuse University, Syra-
cuse. $.85.

FOR MANY YEARS Mr. Cox watched the development of
picnic use in park and forest areas, and has personally
experimented with the development of such a form of
recreational use. The almost universal ugliness of picnic
grounds and the steady destruction of scenic values in
areas used for picnic purposes impressed him strongly
as among the most unfortunate conditions with which
modern park designers and administrators have to c0pe.
Mr. Cox’s booklet deals with the designing Of picnic
areas, and he includes a number of plans for designed
areas. In Part II he takes up the question of picnic
ground details and gives plans for tables, benches, ovens
and fireplaces, and picnic shelters. The booklet is one
which recreation workers will find exceedingly valuable.

Party Fun

Compiled by Helen Stevens Fisher. Associated Authors,
222 West Adams Street, Chicago, Illinois. $1.35. Plus
five cents shipping charge.

ABOOK or GAMES collected from all parts of the world,
this little volume contains quiet and active games,
pencil and paper games, questions and answers, car fun,
travel games, and stunts. There are separate chapters on
Games for Special Occasions and Games for Each Month
in the Year, together with a section on Simple Rules for
Successful Parties.

The Complete Ski Guide

Compiled and edited 'by Frank Elkins. Doubleday, Doran
and Company, Inc., New York. $2.50. ’

'r HAS NOT BEEN so long since skiing in America was

done on barrel staves in back lots. Now clubs and
trails exist by the thousands. The sport has grown into
a thirty-live million dollar industry, and the followers of
this new recreation number three million. The material
presented in this book ranges from a discussion of the
Arlberg technique to the latest songs heard on ski trains.
It tells where to ski in America and Canada, the rules
and penalties, the records which have been set, the officers
of the various associations and clubs, and the terms in
common usage among skiers.

Soap Carving—Cinderella of Sculpture

By Lester Gaba. The Studio Publications Inc., New
York. $1.00.

UBLISHED IN COOPERATION with the National Soap

Sculpture Committee, this profusely illustrated book
gives detailed information on the various steps involved
in carving with soap, the tools necessary, and the tech-
nical procedures.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Time Out for Living

By E. De Alton Partridge and Catherine Mooney. Ameri-
can Book Company, New York. $2.00.

THE MODERN PROGRESSIVE SCHOOL is beginning tO train

youth to make good use Of their leisure and to encour-
age them to cultivate hobbies which will hold over into
later years.

Time Out for Living has been prepared to help schools
in this vitally important process Of training for the use
of leisure. It presents essential recreational opportuni-
ties and a wide range of hobbies from hiking and camp-
ing to movie appreciation. The content Of the book is
rich in its relation to traditional school subjects—history,
science, civics,. health education, and English. It has
much to offer in the field of creative writing. Written in
an informal, conversational style and profusely illustrated,
the book supplies teachers with the concrete material
needed. Hundreds Of practical projects touching many
helds are provided, and there are selective bibliographies
on each subject and practical information relating to hik-
ing clubs, state recreation agencies, and hiking facilities
in national parks. Although Time Out for Living is
especially designed for high schools, it is well adapted
for use with many other groups of young peOple.

Puppetry - Manual

Recreation Project, Work Projects Administration for
the City of New York. 107 Washington Street, New
York.

HIS MIMEOGRAPHED HANDBOOK contains detailed in-
_ structions for the teaching of the basic course in sim-
pliiied puppetry as developed and used at the Puppet
Division of the Recreation Training School, Recreation
Project, WPA, for the City of New York. Profusely
illustrated, with directions clearly given, it should prove
exceedingly valuable for any play leader interested in
deveIOping puppetry. Through the courtesy of the Rec-
reation Project, anyone desiring a c0py of this handbook
may secure it while the supply lasts by sending a request
on Official paper to the Recreation Project, WPA.

Games and Stunts For Two or More

By Jane Maxwell. Reader Mail, Inc., 635 Sixth Avenue,
New York. $.10.

HERE ARE QUIET and active games, bathing stunts, and
magic Which the family or a small group can enjoy.

Dance—A Creative Art Experience

By Margaret N. H’Dou‘bler. F. S. Crofts and Company,
New York. $2.50.

THIS BOOK IS A DISCUSSION of the ‘basic aspects and en-
during qualities of dance, which are within the reach
of everyone. It is designed to show that dance is avail-
able to all if they desire it and that it is an activity in
which some degree of enjoyment and esthetic satisfaction

63

64 NEI/V PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

for all may be found. The book should do much to in-
tegrate all the dance forms into their proper places as
seen in the perspective of a complete and unified philoso-
phy of that art.

How to Play Winning Softball.
With Official Rules.

gyggseo H. Fischer. Prentice-Hall, Inc., New, York.
1. .

A 'book packed full of information designed to help all
players improve their game and to help coaches train
their teams and umpires to oiiiciate properly. Techniques
and rules are discussed, and there are chapters devoted
to umpiring and lighting for night play. The book is
illustrated with action photographs and diagrams. At the
end there is an appendix of complete oiiicial soft-ball rules.

A Book of Garden Flowers.

By Margaret McKenny. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $2.00.

Daffodils, forget-me-nots, pansies, Canterbury bells,
larkspur, snapdragons, and many other old favorites
march in gay procession in this book. Miss McKenny
tells in a delightful way the story of the origin of these
iiowers and how they came to this country. Beautiful
colored illustrations by Edith F. Johnston add to the
charm of the book.

M unicipal Recreation Administration.

Institute for Training in Municipal Administration,
Chicago, Illinois. $25.00.

This volume has been prepared for use in connection
with a correspondence course administered by the Insti-
tute for Training in Municipal Administration. It is the
latest of a series of courses in municipal government in-
cluding such fields as Personnel, Planning, Finance, Fire,
Public Works, Police, Welfare, and General City Gov-
ernment. Like the other courses in the series, Municipal
Recreation Administration is designed for use primarily
as a means of affording in-service training for city ad-
ministrators, for city managers, mayors, department and
bureau heads, and others wishing to prepare for adminis-
trative posts in city government.

Among the important administrative problems covered
in this course are organization, personnel administration,
the operation of areas and facilities, financial support and
control, records, reports, and research, public relations,
and program planning. The course, prepared with the
assistance of the National Recreation Association, is de-
signed to be practically useful to the student and is con-
ducted in such a way as to help a local ofiicial to meet
the problems of the particular job in which he is em-
ployed. A copy of the volume, which serves as a basic
text for the course, is available only to enrolled students.

A folder describing the course in Municipal Recreation
Administration and the others offered by the Institute is
available on request from the Institute at 1313 East 60th

Street, Chicago.

Modern Wilderness.

By William Arthur Babson. Doubleday, Doran and
Company, Inc., New York. $3.00.

There are residents of New Jersey who will be amazed
to read of the wildlife sanctuary which exists within a
few miles of New York City——a strip Of swamp and
woodland bordered by highways over which motor cars
pass in ceaseless procession. In this retreat, hidden from
view only by the natural growth of trees and plants, Mr.
Baibson has observed the nightly peregrinations of many
animals and has discovered the secrets and habits of the
locality’s many forms of wildlife. In spring he has seen
thousands of ducks stOp in this refuge on their north-
ward migration.

Mr. Babson writes of all these things with a charm
and a feeling for the wonders of nature which make this

an unusually delightful book.

Cowboy Dance Tunes.

Arranged by Frederick Knorr. The Caxton Printers,
Ltd., Caldwell, Idaho. $.75.

In connection with Lloyd Shaw’s book, Cowboy Dances,
an accompaniment book has been prepared with music
arranged by Frederick Knorr, a cellist in the Denver
Symphony, who for a number of years has played with
Mr. Shaw’s dance groups in some of their engagements.
This booklet will -be very valuable for groups using Mr.
Shaw’s book.

Safety Education in the Rural School.

Education Division, National Safety Council, Inc.,
20 North Wacker Drive, Chicago. $.35.

Although the accident problem is most obvious in the
heavily populated centers, it is important also in the most
sparsely settled sections. According to mortality statistics
for 1936 published by the Census Bureau, each year
nearly 40,000 accidental deaths from all causes occur in
rural areas. The material offered in this booklet is in—
tended for the use of teachers and presents subject matter
for safety lessons. -

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-President
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRY, Treasurer

HOWARD BRAUCIIER, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORnETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMHER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitcliburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan. City, Ind.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N. 1.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRIY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGHUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, ConCord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

