l
I

 

John G. Winant

The ranking oilicer oi the National Recreation Association, Hon. John G.
Winant, has been chosen Ambassador to the Court of St. James. Thousands oi
recreation workers reioice at his appointment. John G. Winant, even as Joseph Lee,
Dr. John H. Finley and other leaders in the Association, has cared deeply what
happens to every man and every woman in daily lite. Governor Winant lor the last
fourteen years Found himseli very much at home in the recreation movement. lts
desire to bring strength and icy oi living to all was his own. The national recreation

movement has belonged to him in a very real sense.

Howard Braucher

 

MARCH m4!

 

701

QZDOm®><IE .._._<m .I MZ<~E ml...

 

The Frank  Ball Playground

:WHERE a tin can cov-
, ered hill once mar-
‘ red the landscape
\of West Fresno, now
': hundreds of happy youngsters
and oldsters of every nationality
:on earth enjoy recreation of
every type on one of the biggest
little playgrounds in America,
420 feet by 320 feet, to be exact.

The idea of development of
traditional recreation of all coun-
tries has long held sway in

An unsightly hillside is transformed
into a block of happiness and beauty

By RAYMOND L. QUIGLEY

Superintendent of Recreation

A block of play areas developed
according to a carefully worked
out plan is providing Fresno. Cali-

fornia. with a leisure-time pro-

gram permeated with the best of
traditional recreation from all
parts of the world. concentrated

been purchased than a
border of trees and shrubs
was set out, and chil-
dren’s apparatus and ball
grounds laid out. Next, eight
hundred children of the neigh-
borhood were invited to dedicate
the ground. A California Red-
wood -Big Tree, (Sequoia Gi-
gantica), was planted by the
children, and every child put
some dirt around the roots.

This happened on Burbank

Fresno; and for over twenty-
live years boys and girls have
grown up together enjoying the
'iappy pleasant things that each nationality brought
:0 build up the happiest of all lands.

During all this time, not just during war time,
Americanization has been the Number One ideal
)f Fresno's recreation system; other ideals are
‘ocial benefit, moral uplift, civic pride, health and
{00d sportsmanship. Traditional recreation, with
ts ideals, has done much to cement a regard of
friendship and understanding for this cosmopoli-
an city that nothing else could have accomplished
.0 well. I

The story of the transformation of a block of
lirty hillside into a play area reads like a fairy
ale come true. It all started when Frank H. Ball
.iequested to the city of Fresno $10,000 for play-
ground purposes. The will could have been
Iroken, because it was made within three days of
(Ir. Ball’s death, but Mrs. Bessie Ball rejected
vithout hesitation any suggestion that such action
we taken.

As the ideal spot for a playground in West
‘iresno was being sold off in lots, and the ten
housand'dollar bequest was tied up in the estate,
he Superintendent of Rec-
pation went to the City Com-
nission and persuaded them
in loan his department ten
{housand dollars for the pur-
Qupse of buying the desired
ite. The lots already sold,
5 well as the remainder of
he block, were bought.

No sooner had the ground and trees,

on the making of happy citizens.

Located on this block playground which
measures 420’x320’ are: a small chil-
dren's playground with apparatus: base-
ball or football grounds used at night
as softball diamonds; bleachers; hard-
surfaced tennis courts; basketball and
volleyball courts: a swimming pool with
dressing rooms and a shower building:
a large all-purpose recreation building;
and landscaping.

shrubs

Day, and it was explained that
Burbank’s achievements were
just as important in their way
as those of Ford, Fouch or Fulton. The children
were also told that the planting of the big tree was
an event of much importance, as it would shelter
generation after generation of children at play on
the playground, and by the time all of those
present had gone on to the great beyond, the tree
would still be just a mere sapling in its life span
of perhaps three thousand years. The playground,
it was pointed out, had no fence, and in order that
the playground might become beautiful, every
child was appointed a policeman to see that the
older people did not run over the trees and shrubs,
or break off the shrub berries.-' _

The children listened, took part in a program,
and went away. On the next day any misgivings
as to the attitude of the children toward the care
of the trees and shrubs were dispelled when the
Superintendent of Recreation was requested to
come to the F. H. Ball playground to accept a gift
for the department. Happy children enthusiasti—
cally presented a “cedrus deodara” to be planted as
a playground living Christmas Tree. To this day it
is not safe to injure the trees and shrubs on this
ground, for a child policeman
appears instantly.

Mrs. Bessie Ball often
visited the Frank H. Ball
playground in her car. She
saw the little children play-
ing in their corner, the big
girls over in another portion
of the ground, and the boys

(Continued on page 754)
703

Gardening as a Means of Self-Expression

./

1TH MOST of the world at
w war, gardening undoubtedly

will receive added stimulus
as the best available means for man
to escape from his worldly cares. Ever since man
left the Garden of Eden he has seemingly been
desperately trying to build his own Eden with
varying degrees of success. The economic worth
of a garden is too well known to need any stress-
ing, even in times of war, when today’s food sur-
plus may become tomorrow’s war rations.

Already apparent is a wave of realization of
the value of a home and garden. Retail store
records in large cities make clear that during the
last Christmas season, with the English people
losing their homes by the thousands due to bombs,
Americans suddenly became home conscious.
From a nation of almost nomads given to run-
ning about the countryside, Mr. and Mrs. America
began to purchase items for the
home and garden. Perfumes and
pearls, trailers and cruises were
forgotten, and in their stead
lamps, furniture both for indoors
and out, garden equipment, seeds
and other items having to do with
comfortable living were piled on
delivery trucks, in express
ofhces and in the mails on
their way as gifts from
friends who remembered not
only the holiday season but
something more important—-
the worth of a home and a
garden.

All of us seek a means of
self-expression with all too
few ever achieving that out-
let for the human soul. Gar-
dening is that means which
everyone with a patch of soil
can utilize to blow off the
steam accumulated in a world
beset by care. To grow one’s
own flowers or vegetables or
any other form of plant life
is a form of recreation call-
ing for no other restrictions

704

By J. W. JOHNSTON
Horticultural Editor
New York Herald Tribune

"It is fun to build a garden.
Gardening is creative. and pne
of the greatest satistactions
in life is to look upon some-
thing which you yourselt have
brought into being and to find
it good."—Edwin L. Howard.

 

Courtesy Cleveland, Ohio, Board of Education

than that imposed by one’s own
good taste. This writer has always
felt that the only danger from too
much direction of the arrangement
of plants and flowers, either indoors or out, is
the danger of regimented thinking that might
eliminate the most precious element in garden-
ing—-—the opportunity for self-expression. There
is no apparent danger in this direction, for the
best landscape architects and the experts on
Hower arrangement insist that in all these activi-
ties the result must, in some measure, express the
individuality of the gardener.

The tremendous growth of the junior interest
in gardening holds much promise for its future in
this country. We are now raising thousands of
eager girls and boys with a developed apprecia-
tion of plant material before they reach the age
of twenty-one. This, undoubtedly, will result in
their exercising a real influence
on gardening for both pleasure
and profit. Aside from this fact,
the gains in healthy bodies can-
not be measured, for one cannot,
witness a group of healthy, happy
young gardeners just off the side-
walks of any city street or work-
ing in a community garden
in some beautiful suburbl
without feeling that in their'
hands the future of the coun-
try will be safe. Its counter-
part in the rural districts is
to be found in the 4-H clubs
whose work and achievement
passes beyond human belief:
To all of this youth will fall.
the task of carrying on the
advancement of gardening-5‘l
an activity that has resultecl
in the increased culture anc'
well-being of every counth
where man has congregatet-
in communities. I feel thi
future is in safe hands, pro '
vided the work continues
N othng should be permitto
to stop it.

School Facilities for Recreation?

NE INSISTENT CHALLENGE to public school
0 administration is this question: shall school

facilities be made available for community
use outside of school hours. The challenger is
public recreation, young and vigorous newcomer
among the public services.

Public schools have existed in substantially
their present form for a century or more. Be-
cause they meet a generally recognized need,
schools are found everywhere; with some notable
exceptions, most of the children in this country
can secure eleven or twelve years of school op-
portunity without going very far from home.
' School facilities in most communities are accessi-

ble, reasonably adequate and fairly well adapted
, to the requirements of the school program. Fur-
! thermore, because of their adequacy and accessi-
bility they are well adapted to many requirements
of the community recreation program.

 

: Public recreation has grown to its present
' stature among the services of government during
the present century. Its acceptance as a public
service is simply a response to needs arising from
such social changes as the urbanization, mecha-
nization and centralization of our economy. -

The progress of recreation in different parts of
l the country and in different places within the same
I area has been uneven. In spite of its youthfulness,
I recreation has progressed far enough to_ evolve
“ certain distinctive methods and procedures. It has
I literally taken over its personnel from other pur-
‘ suits and re-educated them. It has made good use
! of hand-me-downs in the way of facilities and
' equipment. But nearly everywhere its further
l progress is hampered by the unavailability of fa-
 cilities that are accessible, adequate and adapted
} t0 the needs of community recreation.

A Question of Policy

I With one public agency having facilities that
l another needs and might well use, a question of
1] public policy arises. Shall public school facilities,
 typically used only by children during half the
. L usable hours of each day, be made available to all
i the people for recreation when such use is not
.I inconsistent with the primary purposes of schools?
, Manifestly this is not a simple question to an-

l swer. If it were the solutions already found by
g

By H. CLIFTON HUTCI—IINS

Professor of Education

Willamette University

"Shall school facilities be made avail-
able for community use outside of school
hours?" Dr. Hutchins answers this ques-
tion in no uncertain terms: ''No school
seeking to render a vital community ser-
vice can afford not to open its doors and
playtields for the use of all the people."

numerous individual communities might be gen-
erally acceptable to others. The question itself is
complicated by local traditions and personalities,
by the extent of local financial resources, by the
placement of administrative responsibility for the
local recreation program, and by numerous sub-
ordinate problems any one of which could be im-
portant enough to ruin the most carefully pre—
pared plan of cooperation.

Faced with this question, many a school official
is likely to make the laconic reply: “Why?” Per-
haps this dubious attitude is not without justifica-
tion. The school administrator is employed to dis-
charge a responsibility which by statute and tra-
dition consists of providing specified types of in-
struction to children of designated ages for a mini—
mum number of days each year. Usually he is
forced to utilize every resource in order to secure
enough state and local monies to carry on this pro-
gram with a decently paid staff. He has fought to
obtain suitable land and striven to erect buildings
that appropriately reflect the esteem in which edu—.
cation is held by his community. Then comes a
request from a non-school agency which, if
granted, would involve the use of school buildings
and grounds, would probably increase the school
budget, and would certainly upset any traditional
ideas in the community as to what schools are for.
Why should he approve?

Obviously an attitude such as that described
arises from a misconception of the function of
education and of the agencies through which edu-
cation is obtained. The distinctive features of
education, of education-through-the-school and of

705

706 SCHOOL FACILITIES FOR RECREATION?

recreation are highly important. Not only these
forces but their interrelationships need to be ex-
amined before a final answer can be given to the
fundamental question under consideration.

The Nature of Education

Education is a process of growth. It goes on
within the organism as the result of forces that
may be called maturation. It goes on likewise as
a result of forces external to the organism that
may be called experience. The biological growth
or education that results from these influences pro-
ceeds in “a severely regimented sequence” with
considerable latitude as to rate. One stage merges
imperceptibly into another, each change bringing
reorganization of physical, mental and emotional
patterns within the individual.

To a considerable degree education in this bio-
logical sense is nurtured by the home during the
first years of life, although many other environ-
mental infiuences have their effect. Play and learn-
ing are intermingled during this period; whether
the two are separate, and the extent to which each
one influences the other, have never been deter-
mined. Both are necessary in the early develop-
ment of the normal child.

Sooner or later the school becomes a major en-
vironmental factor. The child goes to school be-
cause it is the device created by society to acquaint
him efficiently with the past experience of the
race; it renders further benefits in modern society
by offering experiences that most homes would
find it impossible to give. The child’s education
thus becomes institutionalized. Through the
school his experiences are selected from among
the vast number that might conceivably be en-
joyed. Furthermore these experiences are directed
toward a general goal. By virtue of this selection
and direction of experiences, education-through-
the-school can be distinguished from the broader
concept of education.

Recreation Is Education

The impulse to play exists in every child from
the earliest years. It is the center or core of the
young child’s experience, serving, oftentimes, as

the medium for learning. The nursery school and '

kindergarten utilize this natural tendency to play
in guiding the acquisition of knowledge and the
formation of habits, skills and attitudes in the
young child. In later years an undetermined but
probably signihcant amount of useful learning has
its origin in play. In brief, play is an important

part of the growth process; it is one kind of
education.

Play, or recreation as it is often called, may
provide educational values when enjoyed either as
a purely individual matter or with others in a
group. To a degree, recreation in both of these
manifestations has assumed certain institutional
characteristics similar to those of the school.
Where recreation is organized as a public service
it usually involves leadership and the use of fa-
cilities; likewise there is usually a selection and
direction of experiences in recreation just as in
the school.

But even though there is similarity between the
characteristics of recreational experience and
school experience the two are not alike. Perhaps
the greatest difference lies in the informality of
recreation as contrasted with the formality of the
school. School experience is compulsory, highly
organized, well-disciplined and progressive. Rec-
reation experience may have none of these attri-
butes: participation is wholly voluntary; anyone
may participate according to his interests, subject
only to self—discipline or that imposed by the
social group; progress from one stage of learning
to another is purely an individual matter.

Manifestly, however, both school experiences
and recreation experiences are educational. For
any individual the immediate aims of the two ser-
vices may differ; their methods may be different,
their personnel entirely separate. Nevertheless,
both school and recreation center are necessary
agencies in the education of the individual. Both
are means to an end and the end is the same for
both, namely, the development of an educated
person. Each supplements the other’s efforts in
reaching toward this ultimate goal.

Whole Population Is Served

As school services and recreation services de-

velop from year to year both are coming to serve 
an ever increasing proportion of the whole popu- ,
lation. In any particular community today there .
may be little evidence of this trend. Nevertheless, '-
it appears that such a development is taking place I

throughout the country as a whole.
Beginning during the last century as a service

provide a balanced program for persons of all
ages. The sand garden has developed into the play

_for small children, public recreation now seeks to "-

center for tiny tots. Playgrounds furnish a safe 

place for growing youngsters to play under com-
petent supervision and direction. Playfields,

SCHOOL FACILITIES FOR RECREATION .5” 707

swimming pools, gardens, nature trails, toboggan
slides and the like provide opportunity for active
participation in sports and athletics for everyone
from childhood on up. Community centers with
reading rooms, assembly halls, gymnasiums, arts
and craft shops, and game rooms offer a wide
variety of recreational opportunity to young and
old alike. As more of these types of facilities are
made available public recreation can literally make
good its desire to offer a balanced leisure time
program to persons of all ages.

Traditionally the public schools have been in-
stitutions for the education of the young. During
the early years of compulsory school attendance
the age of beginning school was set at six years
and the upper limit extended to the fourteenth or
sixteenth year. Some went to school beyond these
ages in order to finish high school and go to col-
lege. Except for those who proposed to enter the
professions, or adult immigrants who were learn-
ing the English language and American customs,
the schools were for children only. This tradi-
tional attitude has persisted until relatively recent
decades.

Today many public schools are extending their
services to persons both above and below the ages
of legally required attendance. At the lower ex-
treme a substantial number of communities have
added kindergartens for children four and five
years of age; a few even provide a year or two of
nursery school for younger children. At the other
extreme most youth now go to high school and a
substantial proportion of them graduate. Because
of the difhculty in finding jobs some school sys-
tems have even added two more years of public
secondary education to enable youth to continue
their education until they are likely to be wel—
comed in the labor market.

Two further extensions of public school ser-
vices effect a still closer approach to the ideal of
serving the entire p0pula-
tion. Vocational education

to the needs and desires of the average person
above school age; included in these programs is
usually a good sampling of purely intellectual,
practical and avocational opportunities, By these
means the public schools, like public recreation,
are extending their services to an ever increasing
proportion of the total population.

Schools Use Recreation

As a result of research in child development,
and perhaps too because of lay criticism of the
effectiveness of schools, educational authorities
are beginning to place less reliance upon academic
instruction as the sole means of educating children
and are giving more attention to the development
of attitudes and practical skills that contribute to
the effectiveness of personal living. In order to
do this the schools have borrowed some of the
techniques popularized by and often identified-
with recreation.

Nursery schools and kindergartens are consid-
ered to be part of the school system, yet a large
part of the learning which goes on under these
auspices is nothing more nor less than guided
play. From this play young children learn how to
get along with others, .develop neuro-muscular
coordinations by manipulating objects, and build
up a background of experiences and meanings
that is invaluable in learning to read and speak
correctly.

In many elementary schools children are en-
couraged to undertake creative activities in order
to develop powers of self-expression by as many
means as possible. Music, dramatics and games
are not only introduced into the school curricu-
lum at this level but are also used as devices for
obtaining a mastery of essential learnings. There
is at least a tendency to replace the cut-and-dried
subject matter instruction with informal, guided
activities directed toward well-defined ends. The

learning of words about
everyday affairs is giving

opportunities now available
in most cities make it pos-
sible for workers to learn
new trades or other occu-
pations, or to refresh their
knowledge of equipment
and techniques in occupa—
tions at which they are ex-
perienced. Likewise, many
cities are offering programs
of adult education suited

"A democracy is interested in enhancing the
life opportunities of its citizens even at the
cost of reducing the service life of its phy-
sical properties. The next decades may be
expected to witness even more extensive use
of public school buildings for adult or gen-
eral community use than in the past. Atten-
tion is therefore focused on planning school
buildings adapted to wider use and free from
traditional institutional characteristics. The
public school building of a democracy

should assist in carrying out the principles of
that social order."-——M0tse A. Cartwright.

way to learning through
direct experience.

At the high school level
some of the same trends in
teaching method are ap-
parent. Music, art, dra-
matics, homemaking, cra ft-
work and sports are fre-
quently offered to enable
youth to develop apprecia-
tions, creativeness and a

708 SCHOOL FACILITIES FOR RECREATION?

degree of technical skill. The library becomes a
familiar resource for securing information and
for leisure reading. Teachers of academic sub-
jects such as science or literature are giving less
emphasis to the development of technical pro-
ficiency in their respective disciplines and more
emphasis to avocational values.

At the post-school level courses of study are
most often selected according to the needs and in-
terests of the learner. Two persons working side
by side at a given learning task might be actuated
by entirely different motives. Whether a given
individual is learning particular skills for voca-
tional or recreational purposes cannot often be
discerned by an observer. Moreover, the one who
is seeking recreational values might, within a
month or year, be using his skill for the purpose
of earning a living. Here, if anywhere within the
school system, recreation and education are so
merged as to be indistinguishable. The school
program at all levels thus makes increasing use
of recreational techniques and values.

The Question Answered

From the evidence available it appears that
public schools are directly concerned with recre-
ation whether they realize it or not. Both schools
and recreation make a distinctive contribution to
the education of child and adult; both contribute
necessary aspects of education. Moreover. both
public agencies are coming to serve substantially
the same population with educational opportuni-
ties that have many elements in common; each
takes advantage of techniques and values popu-
larized by the other. Shall the school, then, make
its buildings, playgrounds and playfields available
to the whole community outside of school hours
for purposes that are so closely allied with its own?

On the affirmative side of this question there
are factors to be considered in addition to those
mentioned in the foregoing. Public schools are
public facilities bought and paid for by all the
people; by all ethical considerations these people
should have the privilege of using these facilities
when their primary function has been served.
There is no point in allowing valuable facilities to
lie idle a third to a half of the time. Recreation
is here to stay. If it is to render useful service it
must have the use of indoor and outdoor facilities
such as schools can provide at those hours when
most people want them. Certainly it would be
unthinkable to duplicate these costly facilities at
public expense.

Increasingly, it seems, school authorities are
finding it difficult to secure enough funds to pay
for the program now carried on in their schools.
Will not further use of buildings and grounds for
recreation add to these financial burdens? In
answer to this question perhaps it is not imper—
tinent to say that the public is willing to pay for
tangible values received and less willing to pay
for values that are not immediately apparent. In
other words, if more of the general public can be
brought into the school to enjoy some of its bene—
fits directly and personally that public is likely to
be more kindly disposed toward the school budget.
It matters not whether the services be recreational
or academic; the services will sooner or later sell
themselves to the people.

Since the beginnings of public education in this
country three centuries ago the school has been-
the natural community center. Through its effect
upon succeeding generations of citizens it has be—
come a bulwark of democratic government. It has
expanded its services from time to time to meet
new needs as they arose; the most striking ex—
ample of this is the addition of the high school to
the public school system nearly a hundred years
ago. Today this new opportunity for service
arises. Much pioneering has already been done.

The use of schools for recreation is not a new.
kind of educational service. It is better described
as an extension and improvement of the kind of?
community educational service now rendered by
schools. The assumption of responsibility for ad-
ministering all community recreation is not the
matter in question; it is rather a matter of the‘
philosophy of education. No school that seeks to'.
render a vital community service can afford not
to open its doors and playfields for the use of all
the people.

“The child school of tomorrow is being devel;
oped on the basic democratic principles of humarj.
living. It is a school designed to bring out the,
best characteristics of individuals and to make f0]:j
successful living through each day of school life 1‘:
Thus the school planned for child needs also con-
forms in many respects to the school designed tc 
meet adult needs. . . . The community school oi.
tomorrow, should be the center in which the lify
needs of people are being met and in which ad 1
vantage is being taken of man’s inventions ans.
man’s contributions to the arts and sciences.”—-
Engelhardt and Engelhardt in Planning the Com
mzmity School.

 

Model Railroading

in the Recreation

Program

.mv novs are not born clutching a section of

8 model railroad track in their fists, but they

get around early in life to exploring the
possibilities of miniature trains. A train is one of
a boy’s first presents, and interest in model rail-
roading stays keen as he grows into manhood. It
is becoming an increasingly popular adult hobby,
and there are several hundred clubs devoted to
this leisure activity in the United States.

,The Pomona Recreation Center was one of the
first groups to recognize the universal appeal of
miniature railroading, and has developed an out—
standing program during the last fourteen years.
This program has material of great interest to
other recreation centers who hope to start model
railroading in their own community. The Pomona

, group has faced and solved many of the problems

confronting the Recreation Center, and did so
without the help of expert outside organizations

a such as the American Association of Model Rail-
) roads which has since been formed to help groups

solve the railroading problems which the Pomona ‘

1 club had to tackle alone.

The writer is‘ particularly close to the Pomona
railroad project. He has been an ardent “rail” for
thirty years, and is largely responsible fOr the
work done in this hobby at the Center. The an-
nual model railroad exhibit at the Los Angeles

' County Fairgrounds is the high point.of._- the

Pomona‘railroadtactivities during the year. .Seven

hundred thousand people 'see this layout annually '

     
  

Courtesy American Association of Model Railroad:

By H. R. HOWARD

Pomona. California

in the seventeen day period during September in
which it is open to the public. The exhibit
changes from year to year, and is located in the
most prominent space on the fair grounds. It
occupies a piece of land 110 feet long and 99
feet wide.

The exhibit has a wide popular appeal because
it is so colorful and has real educational value.
Last September’s railroad exhibit reflected scenes
of the West. A Hopi Indian village with nine
adobe pueblos was carefully constructed and
placed in a setting of cacti and shrubs typical of
the desert. An Indian village of the plains, com—
posed of thirteen tepees, was nestled in another
curve of track.

Bridges are extremely interesting subjects for
the modelmaker, and the Fair exhibit scontained
four modern structures over water, and one bridge
over a dry arroyo. The latter was a heavy double-
truss type bridge, sixty—five “inches long and
twenty inches wide, made ofiimetal in the work-
shop.. It was ’mounted on concrete abutments and
was equipped withisemaphores andfa block con-
trol device to prevent train (collisions. "

709

710 MODEL RAILROADING IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM

Color and realism were added to the display by
landscaping. A miniature mountain range was
constructed, and two waterfalls, supplied by an
electric pump, tumbled down the rocky cliffs. Two
picturesque lakes were formed, and stocked with
blue-gill game fish. An old water mill and wind
mill ran as long as wind and water held out. At
the risk of getting statistical for a moment, we
might add that some 400 pink verbena, 500 baby
spruce trees, 350 midget yellow zinias, and two
truck loads of assorted shrubs went into the
display.

During the years since the Friday in Septem-
ber, 1926 when the Pomona Center was organized,
its members have built models duplicating nearly
every phase of American life and reproducing
many historic scenes. The Gold Rush of 1849
was reflected in a deserted Ghost Town which
sprawled beside the tracks of the 1936 Fair. Once
a display was built around the San Dimas Cham—
ber of Commerce Puddingstone Reservoir proj-
ect. Old—fashioned automobiles have been dupli—
cated. A 1920 model Paige, complete with license
plate, and minutely accurate engine, is one of the
most interesting of the automotive exhibits.

Religious buildings have not been overlooked
by the Pomona group. One of the features of
the 1940 exhibit was an old-fashioned church
wired for sound which played hymns of thirty
years ago. The group also constructed a model of
the Academy of Holy Names.

Modern touches such as a dude ranch and a
reproduction of the Pomona Station are included
in this extensive system, and a group of up-to—
date bungalows such as one might see in a real
estate development were made by the Girls’ Model
Club of Pomona. Electric plants and power
houses have been built and placed realistically in
the exhibit at the foot and up to sides of a model
dam spill.

Many interesting models
have accumulated during
the years in an attic above
the writer’s personal work-
shop. Housed there are
four model Franciscan
missions, churches, homes,
stores, stations, and a mis-
cellaneous assortment of
other trackside structures
which make the annual ex-
hibit tremendously realistic.

All of the equipment

side structures.

The American Association of Model RailroadsI
whose purpose it is to advise boys' railroad
clubsI has published two books available to
railroad club leaders without charge. The
"Leader's Manual." written for leaders with-
out previous model railroad experience who
wish to organize a clubI contains practical
suggestions for financing the activity. over-
coming the problem of limited spaceI and de-
veloping a club program. The "Handbook for
Model Builders" gives suggestions and worlting
instructions for building the railroad system.
laying tracks. and modeling scenery and way-

The A.A.M.R. should be
addressed at I5 East 26th Street. New Yorlt.

used on the annual Los Angeles County Fair lay—
out is tested and run in on a track layout located
in the garden of the author, which is the second
railroad system in the Pomona recreation center.
Here trains are run each Sunday afternoon for
visitors who, according to the guest book, totaled
more than 300 during the past summer, and came
from all over the country.

The second layout is a double track which en-
circles an old New England village. The village
is reproduced from childhood recollections of the
writer. The town of Wildwood includes models
of a church wired for sound, a general store, the
old red school house, livery stable, covered bridge,
and music shell. A water tower, houses, and stock
corral are there, and so, too, is a signal bridge and
interlocking tower. On this layout, also, growing
plants are used to add to the realism of the scene.

A third railroad system has just been started
by the Pomona Recreation Center. After all these
years without women or girls in the club, by
special decree they are now permitted to join the
photographic and railroad departments. During
the past week three have availed themselves of
the opportUnity to join.

Some Practical Problems

The recreation center which desires to include
model railroading in the hobby program is im-
mediately faced with the problems which all work-
ers in leisure activities know too well—how to
finance the program, and where to house it. The
Pomona Recreation Center, which started from"
the humble beginnings of one man and a group
of fifteen boys interested in model building, with—
out a clubroom or a treasury, has been successful
in circumventing these very real challenges, and its
experience may be an inspiration to other groups.

It might be in order to explain at this point that .
the Pomona Recreation
Center is not financed byl
the city. It is completely.
independent and financed
by the efforts of the mem- i
bers. The club enjoys the
full cooperation of all city
officials, however. It was
the forerunner of all rec-
reation work along shop
lines in this city. There
were no other groups for
several years after we
started, and for three years

i

 

MODEL RAILROADING [N THE RECREATION PROGRAM

we rented the city rights for crafts on Saturdays.
This trial tested the movement for the city, and
from this seed has grown a group which does
woodwork entirely in a southside park. Fathers
and sons work side by side in the Pomona Recre-
ation Center, and membership ranges from boys
of ten to men of sixty, all of whom do their bit
to keep the group going.

The Pomona Model Yacht Club, as our grOUp
was called when it was organized, held its first
meeting in the rear of a sporting goods store of a
fine man interested in boys. As the club grew, he
permitted it to have a small bench and some tools
to build models, mostly boats. He also advanced
money to bUy supplies. The
group’s first, and greatest,
loss was his death soon after

its organization. However, his wife allowed the
group to go on, and gave it every help until she
died about two years later.

Membership had grown from the original fif-
teen to over twice that number, and in scouting
around for larger quarters we discovered an un-
used school building, long since outmoded by
Pomona’s modern education system. It required
only placing the facts before the school board to

I get their permission to use the building until such

time'as it was sold.

The "City of Los Angeles." traveling
at a high rate of speed. passes the
miniature city at the I938 County Fair

711

The Pomona Recreation Center has always
worked on the fundamental belief that a club must
change as times and conditions change. Program

' innovations have been made at least every three

years, new hobbies added, and, in some cases,
equipment has been changed if lack of interest
failed to warrant its upkeep. The two year period
during which the club stayed in the quarters de—
scribed marked the shift in interest to model rail—
roading as the stellar attraction of the center. The
Center has continued to add hobbies, photography
and radio being the latest, but model railroading
still holds its place in the affections of the group.

After a two year residence, the building in
which the Pomona Recrea-
tion Center was housed was
sold to a woman’s club, and

 

the hunt for space was again begun. The board
that had befriended the group offered the use of
a building with two large rooms 65 by 25 feet
until such time as it was necessary to move the
building. This new move was faced joyously by
the youngsters. This time we did not move across
town with the club belongings on our backs, but
traveled in style, with two trucks carrying the
club belongings to its new quarters, and most of
the eighty boys perched atop the loads.

Another two years passed, and once again the

712 MODEL RAILROADING IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM

Board informed us that they were compelled to
have the building moved to make room for the
school playground. The President of the Board

offered the building for twenty-five dollars—-

really a gift, for the building would cost several
hundred dollars to build. There was exactly
twenty-live dollars in the club treasury, and this
we exchanged for a building of our own.

The next inventory showed that we had a new
building and no place to put it. By this time the
club had so many friends in the city that we felt
safe in any venture. The office of the Mayor was
visited and our troubles placed before him. Lay-
ing aside his duties of ofiice, he invited us to go
for a drive around the city to check up on a loca-
tion for the clubhouse. A fine site was chosen in
Pomona’s beautiful hill park. The following day
a meeting of the City Council verified the transac-
tion. provided us with a man to keep the flowers
and lawn in beautiful condition, and authorized
the park police to see that no harm'came to the
club or its young members. Incidentally, both the
gardener and the patrolman who watch over us
are members of the club.

It now seems like an audacious move, but we
ordered the building moved to the new site al-
though we did not know where the seventy-five
dollars to pay the moving company, nor the addi-
tional seventy-five to pay for the new foundation,
were to be found. By the time the invoices reached
us in the customary thirty days, we did have the
one hundred and fifty dollars.

The Pomona Recreation Center has had no

Aladdin’s lamp to rub when it becomes necessary"

to solve financial problems, but. through the
courtesy of our many friends and our own hard
work we have been able to expand steadily
through the fourteen years of our existence.

The money we needed to move and to provide
the foundation for our club house was raised
through a dance made possible through the courtesy
of the Charles P. Rowe Post of the American

Legion in permitting us to use its hall. One of .

the dads, who prefers to remain anonymous,
helped pay other expenses that were incurred in
getting the building settled.

To digress a moment, these dances were such
happy events that they were carried on for over
three years at fifteen cents per couple for boys,
their girl friends and parents only. No townspeo—
ple not connected with the club were admitted.
We have had as many as two hundred people on
the dance floor at one time and never a single case

of ungentlemanly conduct. We had our own or-
chestra comprised of members, and paid regular
wages.

Other sources of revenue have always suggested
themselves when the need arose. For many years
we took all awards at the Los Angeles County
Fair for model building. At that time the Fair
Association put fifty dollars aside each year for
the best club showing, and this prize money
bought tools. In recent years the Los Angeles
County Fair has not offered a prize for the best
club showing, but models are entered under the
department in which they are classified.

At the present time the finances of the Pomonaj
Recreation Center are taken care of by dues of-
fifty cents per month. This usually is sufficient.
In the event a boy comes to us with lots of en—
thusiasm, but no money, he is as welcome as
though he had all the money in the world. He,
may do two hours of work for the club, and his:
dues are credited to his membership card for the.
month. i

The Pomona Recreation Center has been in ex-:3
istence for fourteen years. We have never had
much money or have we been able to afford all of-
the things we would like to do at any given time,
but we do feel that we have been able to give our.
members the things they wanted most, and that
we have worked steadily forward. It is our feeling
that planning and imagination and work will solve
most of the problems to which the recreation
center is heir.-

“Miniature railroading is a natural club venture
because of the wide diversity of skills involved,’
for this hobby requires all of the patient crafts-
manship of airplane building plus a lot of othei
things. Aside from laying tracks and building“I
accurate train replicas, your model 'railroader con- :
structs trestles, tunnels and bridges of ever] 1
known type, turntables, roundhouses, water tow‘iI
ers and other railway buildings—all in minutt’.l
scale. . . . Automatic signaling and remote-contra,
systems whereby ten or more little trains an
operated at once from a panel board, represent on
of the most technical phases of this hobby.

“This is model railroading as distinguished fror.‘
merely playing with your son’s Christmas set 02
trains. . . . When I talk of ‘model railroaders’ -
refer to some 200,000 adult men who spend five (3
six million dollars a year on this hobby for thei
own edification.”——Paul W .K earney in K ids C alll
F 1m, Magazine Section, N e‘zv York Herald Tribtm.

 

That Spring Perennial—Rope Jumping!

VERY PLAYGROUND and
E every front sidewalk is
crowded with girls and
jumping ropes as spring comes
to the land. No matter where
one goes, east, west, north, or
south, hand in hand with the
sudden appearance of marbles
appear the jumping ropes ! One
day the walks are clear. The
next day they are occupied by jumpers. Each sec—
tion of this country has its local version of jump-
ing rhymes. Variations are slight so that a child
may easily move from one locality to another. For
a few times only need she watch and listen to her
new schoolmates’ jumping rope verses. Soon
the “new girl” is jumping and chanting with the
“old timers,” happy and at home.

Here are some of the rhymes to which the girls
of Falls City jump:

Take a long rope with two girls, one at each
end as turners, and watch the fun begin. With-
out fully turning the rope, the girls do plain jump-
ing to (I) a gradually raised rope, (2) a wrig—
gling rope (sidewards or up and down), or (3)
a rocking rope. The names of these are:

Cut the Cheese
Baby Cradle

Building House
Snake

\Vith a full turn of the rope, one may add a
plain jump each time and Run Through School.

Counting rhymes are very popular. Some chil-
dren jump to 200 (200 times) before missing.
This group includes:

Going by Ages

Going by A.B.C.

Raspberry (or Strawberry)

Charlie Chaplin

Cinderella, dressed in brown, yellow, blue, green,
white, black, maroon, red, rose, pink, etc.

Soon a girl becomes an expert and demands
something harder than the counting rhymes. Next
come the “Hot” rhymes such as:

Salt, Pepper, Vinegar, Hot!
Mable, Mabel, Set the Table

One, Two, Three—Seven. All Good Children
Go to Heaven

Even pantomime creeps into rope jumping. In-
deed, acting out the words of the verses is a

By SUE HALL

Out in Falls City, Nebraska. a city of
6,000 people, the girls jump rope from
daybreak to sunset! With the help of
their physical education director they
have collected the rhymes and events
which they use. Try them on your play-
ground and neighborhood sidewalk!

favorite activity. The jumpers

try all of the following:

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear
Rich Man, Poor Man

One, Two, Buckle My Shoe
Ten Little Indians

Down in the Valley

Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary

For quick and snappy jump-
ing the single line verses are

handy, for instance:
High Hills, Low Hills, No Hills
Long Hair, Short Hair, No Hair
Bicycle, Tricycle, Motorcycle, Car
Smart Girl, Rich Girl, Dumb Girl, Poor Girl
Diamond, Sapphire, Ruby, Pearl
Upstairs, Downstairs, Under the Bed

Fine Points of the Game

There is more involved in jumping rope than
the average onlooker may think! Here are some
of the fine points:

Fundamentals
Single rope; Long rope; Variations

Combinations of Plain Jumping

Without full turning of rope
Building House Snake
Baby Cradle Cut the Cheese
With full turn of rope
Running Through School

Counting
Going by A.B.C. Raspberry
Going by Ages Charlie Chaplin
Cinderella

Hot
Salt, Pepper; Mable, Mabel; l, 2 .

Verses with Pantomime

Teddy Bear Ten Little Indians
Rich Man Down in the Valley
1, 2, Buckle Your Shoe Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary

. 7, . . . Heaven

Single Lines

High Hills Diamond
Long Hair Upstairs
Bicycle Roses
Smart Girl Pink
January

Description of Fundamentals
Single ROpe
Crossed Elbows. Cross arms at elbow and turn

rope with hands far out to the side to have a wide
opening through which to jump.

713

714

Rock. Leave one foot in front of the other.
Hop on front foot and then back foot, rocking
back and forth.

Heel, heel. Hop, placing alternate heels for-
ward.

Feet Together and Apart. Alternate, jumping
with feet closed and then spread apart.

Ball Tap. Hop with straight leg in front and
toe tapping in front.

Leg Swing. Hop on one foot, swinging forward
other foot.

Jump Turn. Turn around while jumping with
rope.

Toe Tap in Back. Hop on one foot, tapping toe
of other foot in back.

Ball Bouncing. Rope handles held in front with
rope on floor in back of jumper. Hold ball and

rope handles together. Drop ball and turn rope.
Jump, turning rope under a bounce of ball.

Legs Crossed. Hop on both feet with one ankle
crossed over the other.

Two Feet. Hop with two feet together and at
the same time.

Single Hop. Hop on one foot either right or
left. Other foot raised, slightly bent at knee.

Skip. Ordinary skip over rope. One foot and
then the other jumps in place or traveling.

Dance. Hop with a tap movement, such as a
brush and tap between hops.

Long Rope

One long and one short rope. Two girls turn
one long rope while one girl runs in jumping a
small rope. Jump both in succession or together.
Turn both ropes front door, back door, or one
rope front door with the other back door.

Two long ropes. Two girls each hold the ends
of two long ropes. Turners hold one hand slightly
higher than the other. Hold one rope still and out
to the side out of the way. Start turning the other,
then turn the first rope the opposite way. Run in
and jump both ropes in turn as each strikes the
ground. Jumping is double quick but not pepper.

One long rope or medium length. Each turner
makes a three-fourth turn standing inside of the
rope and continues jumping.

One turner uses right arm for turning and
turns body to left three-fourth of a circle.

The other turner uses left arm for turning and
turns body to right three-fourth of a circle.

THAT SPRING PERENNIAL—ROPE JUMPING!

Both turners are inside of the rope facing the
same direction and jumping together.

Running in front door. Rope turns towards the
jumper. Jumper runs in and jumps after she is
inside.

Running in back door. Rope turns away from
jumper. Jumper jumps rope as she goes in.

Variations

Change of direction of jumper: I. Forward;
2. Backward; 3. Sideward.

Change of direction of rope: I. Front door;
2. back door.

Change of pace of rope and jumper: I. Slow,

jump every word; 2.‘ Medium, jump every other ‘

word; 3. Fast, “hot,” jump as fast as possible.

Change of height of rope and jumps: I. Low,
strikes ground; 2. High water, about knee height
or higher.

Description of Rope Jumping Rhymes
Running Through School. Run through a turn—
ing rope without jumping. Run in, jump one, run
out. Run in, jump twice, run out. Add a jump
each time until all grades have been completed.
College years—go in back door and jump one for
first year, etc.

Building House. Jump a still rope placed on the

sidewalk. Jump from one side to the other and I

back again either forward, backward or sideward.
Raise slightly for each jump. Raise a definite
number of times such as age of girl.

Baby’s Cradle. Jump a rope swaying from side
to side. Rope is same height throughout. Jump
from right to left to right to left, etc., or front

to back to front to back, etc. Continue until a _'

miss occurs.

Snake. Wriggle, wave, or wag the rope side-
ways on the sidewalk. One jump over wriggling

rope and try not to be bitten. The rope may be 1

gradually raised for variety.

Cut the Cheese. Wriggle, wave, or wag the rope 
up and down. One jump over the wriggling rope. "

Charlie Chaplin. Jump a turning rope once for
every other word. Continue counting until a miss

OCCUI‘S.

(Verse)
Charlie Chaplin sat on a pin
How many inches did it go in? 1, 2, 3, etc.

Going by Ages. Jump a turning rope. The .

youngest girl turns the rope and the next young- i
est jumps first, the oldest last. Or, jump once for L

 

THAT SPRING PERENNIAL—ROPE JUMPING! 715

every year of the jumper’s age. Or, jump until a
miss to determine how many years the jumper
will live.

Going by A. B. C., etc. Jump a turning rope
once for every letter in the alphabet. Continue
jumping until a miss occurs. Then give a boy’s
name beginning with the letter missed. The
jumper who goes all through the alphabet without
a miss will be an “old maid.” Go through a second
time to learn the first initial of the boy’s last name.

Going by Numbers. Jump a turning rope once
for every number. Continue until a miss occurs.
The number on which jumper misses indicates the
number of children the jumper will have.

Raspberry. Jump a turning rope once for every
other syllable. Continue counting until a miss.

(Verse)
Raspberry, Raspberry, Raspberry Jam (or strawberry)
Tell me the initials of your (or my) old man. A, B‘,C,D, etc.

Cinderella. Jump a turning rope once for every
other syllable. Continue counting until a miss to
decide the number of “people” in the first verse.

(Verse)

Black—Cinderella, dress in black
\Vent up stairs to peak through a crack.
How many people did she see? 1, 2, 3, etc.

Blue—Cinderella, dresed in blue.

\Vent upstairs to clean the flues.

How many Hues did she clean? 1, 2, 3, etc.
or

Went upstairs to use some glue.

How many bottles did she use?
or

Went upstairs to shine her shoes.

How many shoes did she shine?

Brown—Cinderella, dressed in brown.
\Vent upstairs to make a gown.
How many stitches did she use? 1, 2, 3, etc.
or
Went upstairs in her nightgown.
How many g0wns did she wear?

Green—Cinderella, dressed in green.
Went upstairs to have some dreams.
How many dreams did she have, 1, 2, 3, etc.

or
Went upstairs to see a queen.
How many queens did she see?
or
Went upstairs to fix the screens.
How many screens did she fix?
or
Went upstairs to use some cream.
How many jars did she use?

Maroon—Cinderella, dressed in maroon.
Went to the kitchen to make some macaroons.
How many macaroons did she make? 1, 2, 3, etc.

or
Went upstairs to clean a room.
How many dustcloths did she use?

or
Wth upstairs to put on some perfume.
How many :bottles did she use?

Pink—Cinderella, dressed in pink
\Vent upstairs to use the ink.
How many bottles did she use? 1, 2, 3, etc.
or
\Vent upstairs to write with ink.
How many letters did she write?
or j
W ent upstairs to wash the sink.
How many cleansers did she use?

Red—Cinderella, dressed in red
Went upstairs to make the bed.
How many covers did she use? 1, 2, 3, etc.
or
How many beds did she make?

Rose—*Cinderella, dressed in rose
Went upstairs to powder her nose.
How many boxes did she use? 1, 2, 3, etc.

White—Cinderella, dressed in white.
Went upstairs to turn on the light.
How many light bulbs did she use? 1, 2, 3, etc.

or
How many switches did she turn on?
or
How many cords did she pull?
or
Went upstairs to see a knight.
How many knights did she see?
or
Went outside to fly a kite.
How many kites did she Hy?

Yellow—Cinderella, dressed in yellow.
Went upstairs to kiss her fellow.
How many kisses did she give. 1, 2, 3, etc.

Lace—“Cinderella, dressed in lace.
Went upstairs to powder her face.
How many boxes did she use? 1, 2, 3, etc.

Salt, Pepper, Vinegar, Hot! Jump a turning
rope once for each word. After the word “hot”

jump fast.

(Verse)
Salt, Pepper, Vinegar, Hotl

Mabel, Mabel. Jump a turning rope once for

each word. After the word “hot” jump fast.

(Verse)
Mable, Mabel, set the table

Don’t forget the salt, pepper, vinegar, hot.

1-2 Buckle My Shoe or (Button). Jump a
turning rope for every other word. Pantomime.

Run out at end of verse.

(Verse)
1- 2 Buckle my shoe (button)
3- 4 Shut the door .

716 THAT SPRING PERENNIAL—ROPE JUMPING!

5- 6 Pick up sticks

7- 8 Lay them straight

9-10 Big fat hen

11-12 Ring the bell (or Books on the shelf)
13-14 Maids a-’courting ,.
15—16 Girls a hxing

17-18 Boys are waiting

19-20 That’s a plenty

Rich M an, Poor Man. Jump a turning rope once
for every other word. Continue until a miss.

(Verse)
Rich man, poor man. begger man, thief,
Doctor, lawyer, merchant, chief,
Tinker, tailor, cowboy, sailor,
Big house, little house, pig pen, ubarn,
Silk, satin, calico, rags.

Teddy Bear. Jump a turning rope once for
every other word. Pantomime. Run out at end of
verse.

( Verse)

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, turn around.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, touch the ground.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, buckle your shoe.
(button) (tie)

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, you’d better skiddoo.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, go upstairs.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, say your prayers.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, switch of the light.

Teddy Bear, Teddy Bear, say good night.

Ten Little Indians. Jump a turning rope once
for every other word. Run out at end.

(Verse)

1 little, 2 little, 3 little Indians

4 little, 5 little, 6 little Indians

7 little, 8 little, 9 little Indians
10 little Indian boys.

10 little, 9 little, 8 little Indians

7 little, 6 little, 5 little Indians

4 little, 3 little, 2 little Indians
1 little Indian boy.

Dozen in the Valley. Jump a turning rope. Run
out at end.

(Verse)

Down in the valley where the green grass grows.
(or in the meadow)

Sat little Mary, sweet as a rose.

Along came a hilly goat and kissed her on the cheek.
(or nose)

Oh she let the hilly goat kiss her on the cheek.
(or How many kisses did she get?)

Down in the valley where the green grass grows.

An ant stepped on an elephant’s toes.

The elephant cried out in great surprise

“Why don’t you pick on somebody your own size ?”

M ary, JVIary, Quite Contraryst-Jump a turning
rope. Run out at end.

(Verse)
Mary, Mary, quite contrary

How does your garden grow?
With silver bells and cockle shells
And the rest haven’t come up yet.

Down by the Seashore. Jump a turning rope.
Change rhythms as indicated. Continue counting
until a miss occurs.

(Verse)

Susie broke the milk bottle

And blamed it onto me (Jump every other word)

I told Ma

Ma told Pa (Jump every other word)
Susie got a licking

So Ha, Ha, Ha. _ (Jump every other word)

How many lickings did she get ? (Jump every other word)
1, 2, 3, etc.

Down at the Station. Jump a turning rope every
other word. Run out at end.

(Verse)

Down at the station, early in the morn

See the little daffodils, all in a row

See the little driver, turn the little handle
Choo, choo, toot, toot, off they go.

See the little pufferbillys, early in the morn
See the little engineer, pull his little handle
Toot, toot, puff, puff, off they go.

Single line rverses. Jump a turning rope once
for every word. Continue until a miss occurs.

(Verse)

Pink, red, yellow, blue—choose the color
of your wedding gown.

High hills, low hills, no hills.

Long hair, short hair, no hair.

Upstairs, downstairs, under the bed.

Bicycle, tricycle, motorcycle, car.

Smart girl, rich girl, dumb girl, poor girl.

Roses, violets, carnations, weeds.

Diamonds, ruby, and 10 cent ring.

January, February, March, April, etc.

In a fascinating old volume which was publish-
ed in I845 under the title, S ports and Pastimes of: i,
the People of England, Joseph Strutt offers the?
following description of the game of rope jump- 1
ing. “Rope Skipping,” he says, “is probably very ’_
ancient. It is performed by a rope held by both 5|
ends, that is, one end in' each hand, and thrown j:
forward or backward over the head and under the 4
feet alternately. Boys often contend for super—"3
iority of skill in this game, and he who passes the.
rope about most times without interruption is the.
conqueror. In the hop season, a hopstem stripped,
of its leaves is used instead of 'a rope; and in my

opinion it is, preferable.” :

  

i
l

; l

l

I.

i
I

1
y | has grown to an average of

All-Weather Hiking

N AT LEAST two Sundays
0 of each month the little

village of Holland, New
York, greets the members and
friends of the Buffalo Hiking
Club. Traveling thirty miles by
chartered bus, these young peo-
ple from schools, offices, and
factories'arrive attired in prac-
tical outdoor clothing. And here
where the rugged terrain of the
northern edge of the Allegheny plateau might
daunt less adventuresome hikers, they tramp over
byways and abandoned roads, viewing scenery as
beautiful as New York State can offer. Weather
does not exist that can dampen their ardor, nor do
the deepest of snows discourage them!

The Club was organized in 1937 to arrange
transportation from Buffalo for nature study hikes
sponsored by the Garden Center Institute of Buf-
falo and conducted by the Center’s naturalists.
The irregularities and beauties of the hills of
Holland, with their steep climbs, innumerable
gullies, unspoiled views and occasional bits of
primeval forests, have been an unceasing attrac-
tion not only to a faithful nucleus of regular
comers, but to increasing numbers of new hikers
some of whom find in this activity exactly what
they want and so become “regulars.” From small
beginnings the attendance

over forty maintain-
ed during 1939 and _ l_ w ,
1940. ' ",_
There are no age "
limits, and free
quently there is a
liberal sprinkling of
hikers well past
middle age. Some-
times an entire fam—
ily participates, and
it is not always the
younger members
who best endure the , .
precipitous climbing  I
or the repeated ups  H i

   
     
  

. '3" '5

  

‘h
“Ra-x
-. N.-
J.
0
4|

.r-v
.. h I
. ‘5‘,“
“I: f o-
m“? J?”
’

€II.
‘ .‘u g
. “.4

w.“- I“...
3* _o“

in.

1 ‘."‘”~~ ‘
l
.
-. t
u
a. -.

“War whWW'ifwmt “"31 WW
{I ~~ ‘ "
t ‘ .
'l'b
we I. \‘di
. 1 , ,

By MABEL H. JAMES
Holland. New York

A ioyous, strenuous hiking
program,healthyappetites,
ever-strengthening friend-
ships—you'll find them all

in the Buffalo Hiking Club!

Hikers learn to recognize teasel and other
weeds conspicuous in the win’rer landscape

and downs of hiking over ter-
rain that is deeply and fre-
quently cut by gullies! Hobbies
of the hikers, which are many,
include geology, bird study, pho-
tography, moss collecting, gen-
eral nature study, and just
hiking.

Excerpts from a letter writ-
ten in June by one of the mem-

bers indicate a few of the things
the hikers enjoy:

“This past year was the first time the writer
had the opportunity to witness in the woods
Mother Nature’s complete folding and unfolding
of her beauty. Through the summer months we
shall carry with us, tucked away in our memories,
such thumbnail sketches as these: Nature’s final
curtain call amid fiaming bursts of red and shin-
ing yellow ; hickory nuts ; apple-laden trees ; barbed
wire fences; more barbed wire fences; the chal-
lenging uphill climbs; the rests at the t0p of the
hills; the congenial companionships ; fields of vir-
gin white snow; the soft velvet feel of snow
under foot; fox and geese; snow-covered ever-
greens; signing the guest book; hiking in a steady
downpour; dripping wet pine branches; rushing
brooks; wet moss showing bright green every-
where in the rain; five white-tailed deer; the
Pratt hospitality; ‘sugaring
off’ at Orville’s farm and
the rushing creek in
the wind; a horned
lark; an automobile
horn signaling
(don’t worry—it’s
the assistant field
captain l) ; the man-
ly Art assisting
ladies over fences
with finesse; the
first-aider, Harold,
standing by the
fences; grass whis-
tles; Val’s sail;

_ .... .,
if aura :._
.a -_ g

(Continued on
page 748)

717

What They Say About Recreation

11 HAT FURTHER provisions should we make

for lifting the cultural level of America?

The material poverty of great masses of
our people is exceeded only by the spiritual star-
vation they suffer for lack of good music, fine art,
beauty, color, and inspiration. Whether culture in
its highest sense is to be the possession of the
many depends upon whether our fine arts educa-
tional plans accompany our economic improve—
ment p1ans."———-Dr. J. W. Studebaker, Commis-
sioner of Education.

“The arts are not all social. People who make
things by hand often work alone; so do collectors.
But they, like the rest of us, need to get together
now and then to find out what others are doing,
to renew enthusiasm, and simply for the sake of
agreeable company.”———E. L. Kirkpatrick in Guide-
posts for Rural Youth.

“Happiness is that abiding contentment that
comes from a complete and abundant life, even
though such a life includes, as all lives must, both
success and failure, prosperity and adversity, SUn-
shine and shadow, cradle songs and funeral hymns.
To be happy we must know the realities of life,
whatever they may be.”———From The Purposes of
Education in American Democracy.

“Many of our cities are still wildernesses for
thousands of small children, in so far as the pro—
vision of constructive and real play opportunities
is concerned. The menace of casual street associa—
tions is little realized by the taxpayers when they
refuse to support well-planned playground activi-

ties.”—Clieney C. Jones in Social Work Year
Book, 1941.

“The job we have in recreation is to expose
people to a great variety of recreational opportuni-
ties, to make them brush up against a lot of things
and try them under decent circumstances, to tease
them into doing things. “7 hen we talk about crafts
we are not primarily concerned with what the in-
dividual does with the article when he takes it
home, but what working on the article does to
him.”-r—G. Ott Romney.

718

“The anonymous freedom which modern condi-

tions give the individual creates new problems for
social control and makes more necessary the super-
vision of many forms of recreation. Those agen-
cies, both public and private, which provide whole-
some opportunities for study and play of one type
or another protect the community as well as indi-
vidual children from costly and perhaps disastrous
social experiences.”--——-Clzeney C. Jones in Social

l'Vork Year Book, 1941.

“It seems reasonable to expect, from the eXperi-
ence of the past few years, that the use of our
forests for recreational purposes has now become
as definitely a part of any future forest manage-
ment as the production of timber or other forest

products. . . . Recreation of one kind or another
in our forests has come to mean a year-round use
of them.” — From ll/Iassaclmsetts C onser-z'ation
Bulletin.

“The activities common to most folks, the kind
that have a universal appeal, the ones that build.
up a life in a community and stimulate pride in
the countryside are athletics and games, fairs and"
exhibits, music, social pastimes, addresses, diSCUS-
sions, plays, festivals, and pageants. These five
activities are characteristic of both the country and
the city. . . . All of them are means of an out-
ward expression of an inward feeling.”—Alfredf'

G. Arnold.

“Before long America may desperately need a'
generation possessed not only of a vivid and prac—
tical imagination, eager and competent in devising,
new and improved processes and products. WetJ
may need alSo disciplined skill of hand to bring:-
the visualized idea into substantial reality. Per-'l
haps we should place additional emphasis upon"
play in terms of early experience, to lay the foun- j
dation of the mechanical skills which society willsi
find necessary.” '

“You cannot classify recreation. It is not an”
activity or a type of activity. It is an attitude. It

is your response to what you are doing. It is a way
of life.” '

 

Table Tennis Versus Ping-Pong

 

1n: GAME OF TABLE TENNIS has been sadly un-
derrated in recreational adventuring. It has,
in the past, enjoyed the negative distinction
. of being an activity limited in physical-workout

possibilities. The layman will ask you with naive
bluntness, “Table tennis? That’s the same as ping-
pong, isn’t it?” To avoid complications you will
probably answer “yes,” knowing all the while that
this is not true! Table tennis is a highly scien-
tific athletic sport requiring quick feet. Ping-pong
is a more passive diversion requiring the same
equipment—wand feet. But you won’t tell that to
the layman because it means tiring involvement.
Instead you go about your business until the next
time somebody says, “Don’t be so high-brow. The
name of the game is ping-pong.” That’s when you
decide something’s got to be done. So you do it.

‘You live in a typical town of some forty thou—
sand people, and there are, perhaps, two separate
bowling establishments, a couple of high school
gymnasiums, a half dozen men’s clubs, but—rno
table tennis emporium. So you give up your ideas
of big league playing conditions and concentrate
on the “cellar” game. You know of a number of

By

By MAXWELL TASGAL

Board of Recreation Commissioners
Bloomfield. New Jersey i

people who have tables in their cellars, so you feel
out the possibilities of organizing a league. Your
publicity in the local paper picks up the tempo, and
at the first organization meeting a goodly half
dozen people appear. You notice that these indi-
viduals are mostly in their teens and are all of
the male species. Two representatives are from
boys’ clubs and one from a college. During the
course of the meeting it is decided that each rep-
resentative will organize a team of four, a sched-
ule will be drawn up, and matches will be held
one night a week. The gathering disbands with
the reminder that the next meeting will be the
final one and everyone is urged to look around for
more teams.

The next and hnal meeting is held and only four
representatives are present. This is a terrific
strain on your recreational ingenuity and a blow
to your “table tennis” aspirations! You survive,
however, to the extent of having the four repre—
sentatives agree to pool players so that a six-team
league _is organized with three players on each
team. The following week the league gets under
way accompanied by proper newspaper publicity.

Week in and week out the local paper carries
thorough accounts of the matches as well as ad-
vance predictions and pretty soon things begin to
happen. First the High School asks to have two
faculty teams admitted. Then a bankers’ group
investigates. A tennis club asks questions. A social
club has a team. And that’s the way it goes. The
league is too far advanced to permit of any new-
comers, so a second league is organized, and this
one 'has nine teams of four players each. The
original league is named the “National League,”
and the new one the “American League,” and of
course it is decided that the winner of each league
will play a “world series” for the town champion—

ship.
719

720

The local newspaper now carries two columns
of table tennis news instead of one, and pretty
soon there is talk of the formation of an associa—
tion dedicated to the cultivation and pursuit of
bigger and better table tennis achievements. Dur-
ing the course of the boom you refiect on the
values of your brain child. You notice that with
all the other blessings attached to athletic activi—
ties, your pet is unique in that a certain social
relationship of dignified proportions has been
manifesting itself. You find that regardless of the
character of the particular team, it assumes its
role of guest and host with unerring graciousness.
Every man’s cellar is his castle. One particular bit
of reflecting that brings forth a mental chuckle is
the picture of the high school principal battling
desperately for the point that will bring victory
over his adversary, a recent high school student.

But what about ping—pong versus table tennis?
.Simply this. From among the numerous men en-
gaged in league competition you have a choice
minority who do play table tennis. These men,
although not necessarily accomplished at the game,
make an honest attempt to employ correct form,
carry out offense and defense tactics, attend
matches between top—notchers, and read books on
the subject. One day you call in these players and
outline a program of table tennis propaganda to
be injected into
the patient in the
proper doses at
the proper times.
For instance,
your agent, in the
lull of a match,
will remark, “The
other night in —
(a neighboring
city) I saw the
sweetest back—-
hand chop.” Or,
“Barna (a for-
mer world
champ) holds his
bat like this for
his fiick.” Or, “A
little more top-
spin, especially
down the middle,
will drive a pid-
dler crazy." The
ping-ponger
might not ask

TABLE TENNIS VERSUS PING-PONG

questions at the time but he will begin to realize
that there may be more to the game than merely
peppering the ball monotonously back and forth.
On the newspaper front you mention the fact that
about forty thousand people crammed their way
in to see the world championships in London, or,
“A space forty by sixty feet proved to be too small
for the contestants one of whom scraped his
knuckles on the side and rear railing.” In actual
competition the table tennis salesman with, let us
say, a hard forehand smash, will illustrate to the
ping-ponger that superiority is not necessarily
based on competitive spirit but on method, pure
and simple. Once the subject adopts the new sys—
tem and gains a degree of skill at it, he becomes
a confirmed table tennis fan and joins your legion
to further stimulate progress in the new art.

The newly organized table tennis- association
decides that a week devoted to intensive table ten-
nis activities would more or less climax an ambi—
tious first year program so “ . Table Tennis
\Veek” is formally announced. The high school
gymnasium is brought into service for the occa-
sion, and arrangements are made for the rigging
up of adequate lighting facilities per table, the
installation of an amplifying system, and the ac—
quisition of a half dozen of the best tables in town.

 

(Continued on page 754)

 

 

J

A Social Dance Club

OR TWO YEARS dances
l F were held in our city
without club organiza-
p tion. Attendance was high
and certain necessary rules
I and regulations were hard
to enforce. This was not
due to lack of adequate
leadership, but to the ab-
sence of any organization to
, which the young people
| could belong. \Vith the open-
l' ing of the center last fall a
staff meeting was held and
the problems of past years discussed. Most of the
discussion centered around the control of the high
school dances. Two staff members were selected
to meet with the superintendent and work out
methods of control. Some definite decisions were

I reached:

First, because of space limitations it was de-
cided that 250 should be the maximum attend-
ance. It was also decided that it should somehow
be made to appear as a privilege to be allowed to
dance. With these two objectives in mind the club

, was organized.
Each person desiring to join is required to reg—
ister with the supervisor of the center, giving his
I name. age. school, address, and the names of his
parents. If he qualifies for membership according
to the regulations, that is, if he is a student in
high school. or over sixteen years of age if not in
.high school. and not enrolled in grade school, his
membership card is ready for him at the time of
‘the next dance. No person is given a card on the
1 night of the first dance he attends. On one side of

i the membership'card appears the following:

"This is to certify that . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..,
l ‘ Name Age Address

is a member of the Social Dance Club and agrees to
abide by all rules and regulations of the club. I under-
lstand that my membership will be terminated if I do not
conduct myself in the proper manner.”

' ' 0 ' I ' I I D a I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I o I I I I I O O U . I - - O I l I D l l l I ' ' I

Member’s Signature Center Supervisor
On the other ~side of the card are a few rules

~ such as the following:
1. \Ve must not run or make noises on the stairs.
2. Smoking is allowed only at designated places.
3. Proper dress will be necessary at all times.

By GEORGE A. FAIRHEAD
Superintendent of Recreation
Danville. Illinois

The Danville. IllinoisI Department of Pub-
lic Recreation believes that if young peo- 6
ple of high school age are going to dance
—-and dance most of them will—they should
participate in this activity in wholesome.
attractive surroundings. with adequate lead-
ership, and lastI but by no means least. as
members of a dance club. And so a group year. These numbers are
of young people are now enjoying weekly
dances at one ofthe city's recreation centers.

4. The club committee reserves
the right to withdraw this
card for any reason.

5. Please do not leave this build-
and expect to come back in
during the evening.

. This card is not transferable.

Around the edge of the
card are numbers corre-
sponding to the number of
dances to be held during the

punched out as the member
enters the hall. This makes
it impossible for the person
to leave the dance and return, or to leave and give
the card to someone outside.

Ten club members were selected to form a com-
mittee to help supervise and conduct the dances.
Their duties are to plan the activities for inter-
mission, such as a grand march, special entertain-
ment, square dance, Virginia Reel, relay races, and
stunts, to assist in maintaining order and in serv-
ing as hosts and hostesses. This committee meets
with the center supervisor during the week to
plan the next dance. They have also taken it as
their duty to help individuals learn to dance for
the first half hour of the evening. Special dances
are held at certain times with favors, noise makers
and suitable decorations adding to the festivities.

The dance club meets once each week and dances

from 7 to 10:30 P. M. There is a check room for
the convenience of the members. The music is
furnished by the Recreation Department orches-
tra. Part of the orchestra members are furnished
by \VPA and other are hired by the Recreation
Department.

In other rooms there are ping-pong tables, card
tables, checkers, carroms, books and magazines.
In addition to these rooms we have a large lounge
that is open to members who may be waiting to
meet their friends.

The results of the organization of this dance
club are most heartening to the persons responsi-
ble for its operation. It eliminates the huge num-
ber attending as just spectators or trouble makers,
and leaves more room for actual dancing. It makes
it impossible for persons to drop in after having

(Continurd on page 7'54)
721

Growing Up Together in San Francisco

picture was taken of a quartet enthusiastically
singing America. The singers were very young
indeed—four years of age, to be exact! Years
later, when they were high school students, they
were rephotographed in their original pose, and
the two pictures were published in the September,

IN 19.32, ON THE San Francisco playgrounds, a

1935, issue of RECREATION. In 1940 the group
was reassembled and again photographed. Since
it will not, in all probability, be possible to get the
quartet together again, this photograph showing '
the 1940 group looking at their earliest picture will
be of special interest. Have recreation depart-
ments in anyother cities taken similar photographs?

This interesting photograph has been
made available through the courtesy
ot Josephine Randall, SuperintendentI
San Francisco Recreation Commission

 

722

symphonies bore me.
I’m just plain not musical.
\Vhy, I can’t even carry a
tunef’
I All you say may be per-
, fectly true, and yet it may
I still be possible to open for

0U MAY BE one of those
I who say. “I hate opera,

you the door to that mysterious and wonderful

treasure house of enjoyment music can give you.
I have yet to find the person who is entirely cold

to music in every form. In the first place, abso-

lute insensibility to tone is exceedingly rare. You

1 may think you are tone deaf just because you have

l

l

l

.._

never had opportUnity to use that faculty in such
a way as to develop it. In the second place musi-
cality takes many forms. Those who are 1111-
touched by melodies or harmonies may be very
susceptible to the strong rhythms of a jam ses-
sion. Others like nothing but the tone of certain
instruments—the plaintive piping of an oboe or
the humble twang of a jew’s-harp.

There are two general departments to music
aside from composing—listening and performing.
The word prrform may have a terrifying sound

l when urged Upon the uninitiated. But listening is
a passive occupation, and it is my aim to take the
frightening aspect from the word performer and
show you how you can benefit by becoming one

rare cases, but an average individual with the
normal faculty of being able to render “My
Country ’Tis of Thee.” It makes no difference
whether you pick it out with one finger on the
piano. whistle it, or sing it. If you can do it at all
you are a potential performer.
,Some people just can’t
make their vocal cords behave;

l they aren‘t built that way. If
g you are one of these, get your-
self a piccolo or a cheap ac-

l cordion as a substitute. Ex-
periment until you can play a

l scale and then try some simple
I

I
yourself.
Let us suppose that you are not one of those
l

l
. tunes you can do by ear. Or

perhaps you’re one of those

"Wake up and start singing!
Something. perhaps down deep
inside you, will reSpond and

make you glad.” you left

"There is a certain irresistible magic
in the sound of your own voice. even
though you may be only a bathtub
soloist.'I says Mr. Williams. formerly
music critic on the Brooklyn Eagle.
He feels that most individuals are a
bit timid when it comes to raising their
voices in the company of others. and
believes that all they need is encour—
agement. And this he gives them in a
stimulating article you'll enjoy reading.

Awake and Sing!

By RODERICK WILLIAMS

lucky ones who had music
lessons when you were
young and (quite properly)
rebelled at the antiquated
methods forced on you. If
so, you can take up where
off and with

modern, imaginative train-

ing learn to play and enjoy
yourself. All you need is incentive.

“But,” you are beginning to say, “what is the
point of all this emphasis on performing? Why
should I make the effort to perform when I
already enjoy listening? What is there in it
for me ?” '

Your questions are answered by Marshall
Bartholomew, widely known and respected choral
conductor and coach who once said to me, “When
I was at the front in 1918 keeping the doughboys
singing to forget their troubles, I discovered for
myself the known fact that music is a funda-
mental need of mankind, as primitive and deep
as the need for food and shelter and friendship.”

The same thing applies today. A morning paper
reported last winter that the Finns could always
tell when the Russians were going to attack be-
cause they could hear much lively singing going
on across the lines. The Russians were trying to
forget that many of those who had gone out to
attack the Finns the day before never came back.

If singing can make a professional soldier face
death willingly what can it not do for you going
about the everyday routine of life! \Nhen you
are raising your voice in song with your fellow
man, no matter whether you are singing by ear or
reading your part in the music, you have achieved,
however briefly, a state of serene harmony with
your surroundings. You are
completely and absolutely ab-
sorbed. That leak in the roof,
and that unbalanced check-
book—a thousand and one ma-
jor and minor worries of life
are sloughed off in an instant.

I don’t even ask that you take
my word for it. The facts and
figures speak for themselves.

(Continual on page 747)

723

A Notable Anniversary

N 1940 THE Fall River. Mas-
l sachusetts, Boys’ Club cele-

brated its fiftieth anniver-
sary. The first club to have a
building erected solely for the
recreation of underprivileged
boys and the first to establish
a summer camp for their use, the Club is known
throughout the country.

The Club also celebrated the fiftieth anniversary
of Thomas Chew in his capacity as its superin-
tendent. Leader of the organization since its
founding in 1890, Mr. Chew has influenced the
growth of the clubs throughout the United States.

Perhaps few people realize that the earliest be- '

ginnings of boys’ clubs date back seventy-one
years to the Salem Fraternity in Salem, Massa-
chusetts, where a farsighted person was disturbed
by “the crowded state of the sidewalks with a
human throng made up largely of young persons
from twelve to fourteen years of age to those of
twice as many years.” The problem of how to
reach this group with some wholesome recreation
haunted this unidentified person until he finally
found the solution in the Salem Fraternity, now
considered the oldest boys’ club in continuous
operation in the country.

Meanwhile, in the summer of the preceding
year, the Union for Christian Work in Provi-
dence, Rhode Island, had leased a suite of rooms
“to control the mischievous and thoughtless ele-
ment which will find its way into every public
place.” The three boys’ club buildings now main—
tained in that city grew'out of this early attempt
to give young boys the advantages of well directed
and organized play as well as the educational op-
portunities of various vocational classes.

In 1870 the New Bedford Boys’ Club was
formed, to be followed in quick succession by
clubs in New Haven, Bridgeport, Waterbury,
Meriden, \Vorcester, and Lynn, as the idea
gained the enthusiastic approval of leaders
throughout southern New Eng-
land.

“7 hen the movement reached
Fall River some twenty years
after the Salem experiment, it
gained new impetus largely

724

The fact that the Boys' Club of Fall
River. Massachusetts. recently cele-
brated its fiftieth anniversary calls
attention to the beginnings of this
movement for boys and to its con-
sistent growth and development over
a period of more than seventy years.

Boys' clubs in all parts of the coun-
try are federated in an organization
known as the Boys' Clubs of America.
Inc.. which has its headquarters at

38| Fourth Avenue. New York City.

through the generous financial
support of Matthew C. D. Bor-
den and the leadership of
Thomas Chew. The Club’s first
home was an ordinary store
building; its first equipment
consisted of an old piano,
twelve tables and benches, a small library of two
hundred volumes, and sixty-five games. The at«
tendance on the all—eventful first night was 141
boys. Since that night thousands of boys have
wandered through the inviting doors of 360 clubs
and their Canadian affiliates.

The growth of the Fall River Boys’ Club was
marked by a handsome building presented to it by
Mr. Borden. Complete with a gymnasium, class-
rooms, library, swimming pool, game room, bowl-
ing alleys, baths, locker rooms, and a large audi-
torium, it was the flrst building of its kind. When
the boys became too old for the club but persisted
in joining in the evening’s fun, the directors again
went to Mr. Borden who donated the money for
a men’s division building, also the first of its kind
and unique in that it was the only example of a
men’s organization which grew out of a boys’
club. The Fall River organization now has
grown to 1,500 members, and the men’s division
also boasts of an equally high membership.
Throughout the country as a whole more. than
285,000 youths are enjoying facilities made avail-
able to them. They are: swimming, bowling, sav-
ing money in Boys’ Club banks, learning to draw,
print, make things, and act in plays. In fact, the
range of their activities is so great that every boy

can find something to interest him year after year. '

The educational programs of the clubs are am-
bitious ones. Among the most popular of the vo-

cational classes are those in woodworking, draw- -
ing, toy making, and airplane modeling. But no '

less than fifty-eight other handicraft arts are
taught in one or more of the clubs, and a total of
63,000 boys are actively enrolled in these classes.

Swimming pools have proved

ideal places for Red Crossl‘

and gymnasiunis are an integ-*
ral part of several of the clubs,-

(Continued on page 753)

l

.
i l

life saving tests. Athletic fields, I

There was keen in-
terest in making
things last summer
on the playgrounds
of Hagerstown. and
more than 2.000 ar-
ticles made for the
most part from dis-
carded materials
were on exhibit at
the season's end.

County Board of
Education and the
City Park Com-
mission, the use of
school buildings
and grounds and
and park spaces
I . was secured. Indoor facilities for craft work, as
It A     well as outdoor playground space, was arranged
| for at each of the centers chosen.

B y RUSSELL L. KEPLER The playgrounds have been successful since
their beginning, and the past season proved the

best experienced thus far. During the summer

. 'd f I 0, 'ht 1 u d ' -
1 IN 1937 A GROUP of business and professmnal perm O 94 mg paygm n S were In Opera

 

Playground Director

. . (Contimwd on age 745)
men and women in Hagerstown, Maryland, 1n— P

terested in the welfare of the city’s children,

organized a group known as the Hagerstown Su— Te+her ban was one of H19 adivmes
ll PerViSEd P13)“ most enjoyed by the playground children
l ground Board with
the objective of
! providing for lead-
ship, places for
f recreation, and 7 . . ' - - . . l : h  t
’ worth-while ac- ‘ ' ' . . I
’” tivities for the chil-
'. dren and youth of
,I. Hagerstown dur-
3 ing the school va—
cation period. The
Board set up
standards for play—
ground adminis-
tration, selected
locations for play-
grounds, and pro-
vided for their fi-
nancial support.
Through the co-
operation of the
W a 5 hi n g t o n

 

The Square Dance Goes to College

Dancing at the University
of North Carolina

By DON BISHOP

OL‘R GRANDMOTHER enjoyed it and so did her
Ygrandmother, so there is nothing new about

square dancing. Yet this ancient dance form
is capturing the fancy of the collegiate crowd as
has nothing since the Big Apple came up from
the backwoods of South Carolina.

University of North Carolina students this year
have swung into step with the “new” dance sen-
sation with such enthusiasm that its advocates
predict for it a nation-wide rise to popularity.
The Charleston. the Lambeth Walk, the Big and
Little Apples did it, they say, so why not the
square dance?

New Yorkers recently Were given a preliminary
glimpse of what they may soon be doing when a
dance team of students from the University
demonstrated their version of the dance in the
Empire Rodm of the Waldorf Astoria hotel,
which hitherto had witnessed only the more formal
styles of dance. Eight student couples were given
ten minutes on the program of Kay Kyser, Uni-
versity alumus, whose orchestra was playing at
the hotel. Kyser's orchestra furnished jazzed-up

rural tunes and the students reeled off several of '

their less intricate

place on his entertainment programs, and sum—
mer school students held weekly square dances on
an outdoor court with string bands furnishing
music. Graham Memorial now has its own string
band composed of students.

Three dances have been held during the fall
quarter, each drawing a larger attendance than
the one before it. Some of the students wear barn
dance costumes, others do nothing to “pretty up”
for the gay, informal affairs. A “Sadie Hawkins
Day” was held recently, with Square dancing the
major feature of the night’s entertainment.

VVorley teaches and calls all the figures. Some
of the figures he uses are: the right hand across,

bird in the cage, Georgia rang tang, grapevine r

twist, four-leaf clover, cowboy loop, ocean wave,
grand right and left, wring the chicken’s neck,
wring the dishrag, and the singing wagon wheel,
which is a creation of Worley’s. He introduced

.singing to a revolving star formation and had the

couples go through motions that the original dance
creators never dreamed of. He frequently makes
changes in old forms in order to simplify them.
In fact, the dances are really combinations of true
square dancing and folk dancing.

In square dancing, four couples form a square,
each couple moving from one couple to the other.
As many persons as wish to may participate in a
folk dance. So VVorley combines the two with
many couples performing square dance steps. All
the time he is calling figures, he sings novel

jinglets:

square dance figures.

Chief local promoter
of square dancing is
Richard (“Fish”) Wor-
ley, director of Graham
Memorial Student
Union, with Dean of
Administration, R. B.
House as an able assist-
ant in calling the fig-
ures. Worley arranged
a few small square
dances here last spring.
When he became Di-
rector of the Union he
gave them a prominent

726

"Many colleges are encouraging country dancing.
it has been increasingly popular at student confer-
ences the past four years. The State College in
Connecticut recently sponsored a square dance
festival reaching seventy communities. The Ag.
students at Ohio State hold an annual square dance.
At Texas U. the Swing and Turn Club has a dressy
formal, and the Faculty Square Dance Club at Ohio
Wesleyan sets the style for popular campus func-
tions. At Urbana a group of older students are
given training to help direct folk dancing at the
annual Winter Festival on the campus. At Oklahoma
U. there is a large game room used for country
dances and it is said to be the most popular spot on
the campus. At Berea College there are several
folk clubsI and the annual Mountain Folk Festival has
spread good music and country dancing to a score of
mountain schools."—From American Folk Dances.

“Swing on the corner, like
swinging on a gate,

Now swing your own if
you ain't too late.”

Or,

“If that ain’t hugging, ain’t
it a shame?

Break that ring with a
corner sling.”

Or,

“Swing ’em high, 'swing
’em low,

Swing that piece of
calico.”

Or,

“Milk the cow, wean the
calf,

Swing your honey a round
and a half.”

I i

THE SQUARE DANCE GOES TO COLLEGE 727

He has an ample stock
on hand, but when the oc-
casion arises, he produces
a new couplet. \Vorley has
a square dancing back-
ground, being from Bun-
combe County. But he is
attempting to interpret the
art in a simplith manner
that can be understood by
mountaineer, college student and society matron
alike.

In the near future \Vorley will lead a team of
Carolina students in a demonstration square dance
at High Point. Then the team will teach the
dance to the High Pointers. He also plans to
visit all Orange County elementary and high
schoo1s to teach the dance to the children. They
will perform in an annual festival here next spring.

the press.
each from the

At John Gould Goddard

College in Vermont

SKIING EN VERMONT’S snow-covered hills and
old-time dancing were friendly rivals for
popular favor immediately after Christmas when
the \Vashington County Folk Dance Association
brought its summer activities up to date with a
three-day school of country dances at Goddard
College. And the same spirit pervaded the school
as that which prevailed at the annual Vermont
Folk Dance Festival held in August on the college
campus in Plainheld.

The city ballrooms of the nation have lately
adopted country dancing with all the vigor of a
new-found diversion, but to this group in Ver—
mont folk dancing is something as old as the early
“pitches” when settlers hrst brought cows into
the VVinooski valley. And since the attendance at
the school turned out to be better than half school-
age youngsters, it is likely that the country dances
will remain a form of Saturday night recreation
throughout Vermont long after city folks have
taken up some new idea.

Assisted by teachers from the Washington
County Folk Dance Association. young Ver-
monters study the old country dances at
a mid-winter school at Goddard College

Readers of Recreation who are dance enthu-
siasts will welcome the announcement that
the second edition of "Good Morning:I the
booklet containing music. calls, and direc-
tions for ,more than forty old-time dances
as revived by Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ford and
arranged by Benjamin B. LovettI is now off
Copies are available at 50c
Association or

Dearborn Publishing Co.' DearbornI Mich.

 

Vermont has a set of
country dance traditions all
its own, and several intri—
cate dances unknown to
the rest of the nation. To
keep these traditions safe,
the Washington County
group organized many
years ago for the purpose .
of searching out techniques
and teaching them to other groups gathered solely
for amusement. When the group heard that the
folks down in Chelsea had a different twist on
the promenade forward of a Boston Fancy, they
sent someone down, and now the Chelsea tradition

(Contimwd on page 746)

from the

A Campaign for Cleanliness in Parks

MONG undisputed
A superlativesin
Chicago’s for—
midable list, this city

claims the largest and probably
the best system of public parks
and boulevards in the world!
But the Chicago Park District,
not content to rest on such

laurels, has inaugurated a
campaign to make its parks
the “cleanest in the world.”

R. I. Dunham, president
of the consolidated system
since 1934 when twenty-two
separate park authorities
were united under one j uris-
diction, has devoted a great
deal of thought to the prob—
lem of combating untidi—
ness. The magnitude of this
problem, which involves I36
parks and I62 miles of
drives. and boulevards, a
total acreage of approxi-
mately 5,337, is evident from
the fact that it costs the
taxpayers an average of
$150,000 annually to gather
and dispose of trash left by
careless users of Park Dis—
trict facilities. During 1939,
8,000 truck loads—540,000

cubic feet—of litter were removed from the parks.
boulevards, and drives. For the “laid-end—to-end”
statisticians, it might be noted that this amount of
trash is sufficient to cover nearly twelve acres of
land to a depth of twelve inches. Removing litter
requires a force of 320 men and a fleet of twenty-

eight large trucks.

Early in August the “Anti-Litter Campaign”

was launched. An ordinance,
seldom enforced, if ever, was
brought forward as an ulti-
mate recourse. It stipulates a
minimum fine of $5.00 and
maximum of $200 for each
offense when anyone is caught
littering park property with

728

The story of Chicago’s effort to make
its parks the cleanest in the world

By GEORGE T. DONOGHUE
General Superintendent
Chicago Park District
Chicago. Illinois

 

GEORGME T. DONOGHUE

any sort of waste ma—
terial.

Chicago Park au-
thorities set the pace

in courtesy some years ago by
using attractive signs with the
legend: “Please save this lawn
for summer” instead of the
usual brusque “Keep off the

grass.” The idea “caught
on” and other cities adopted
the persuasive style of ask-
ing people. to spare the grass
in its formative stages so
they might enjoy it later.
\Nhen the Park District of-
ficials went on the warpath
about litter, however, they
injected a sterner note.
Equally attractive signs were
erected, and the appeal was
for cooperation: “Help
Keep Chicago’s Parks
Clean! Place paper and all
other rubbish in waste con-
tainers,” but beneath this
exhortation is: “Warning!
Park District ordinances
prohibit littering. Violators
are subject to arrest and
fine of $5.00 or more.”
More than 12,000 con—
tainers were placed through-

out the parks and boulevards for convenience of
the public, and efforts were made to provide them
in sufficient number to accommodate special areas
in which use is concentrated.

So potent was the appeal to civic pride, how-
ever, and so excellent the cooperation, that at this

writing no arrests have been made. Of course

The campaign for clean parks described
by Mr. Donoghue in this article is mere-
ly an extension of the thought which
the Chicago Park District seeks con-
stantly to emphasize: "These are your
parks." the citizens are told. "Use them
and care' for them in that spirit."

.1“ l u“ (“at' 3' Mn“ t i

there has been no disposition on the part of the

Division of Police to penalize
mere thoughtlessness. In-
stead, all park employees di-
rectly in contact with the
public were furnished cards
which were printed on both
sides with an appeal to help

(Continued on page 753)

An April Shower

Guests coming to this party must wear
their raincoats and rubbers even though
it's sunny. Then they'll be prepared!

ARCH WINDS are having their Hing these days,
but April showers are waiting just around
the corner, and seed catalogues are remind-

ing us hopefully of May flowers. If you’re wait-
ing impatiently for those first spring blossoms,
why not take advantage of April’s offering and
plan a spring shower party? This kind of April
shower won’t dampen anybody’s enthusiasm!

From colored construction paper cut small um-
brella invitations well spattered with white ink “rain
drops.” And don’t forget to remind the guests that
they must come dressed for a shower. It will cer-
tainly put them in a mood for your party if they
must come trudging along in raincoats and rub-
bers on a bright sunny day. And then, too, they’ll
be prepared if it rains before the party’s over—
as it probably will!

Spring Breezes. As guests arrive and remove
rain coats and rubbers, ask them to help the early
arrivals blow up some spring breezes.

Teams stand on opposite sides of a table, in the
center of which has been placed a ping-pong ball.
The object of the game is for each team to blow
the ball off the table on the opposing side and to
prevent it from going off the table on their own
side. Each successful “spring breeze” scores one

point.

How's the Weather? When all of the guests
have arrived, two circles are formed, men in the
outer circle and girls inside. At the signal, the
circles start moving, men clockwise, girls counter—
clockwise. Upon the next signal the marching
stops; the men and girls face each other and start
talking about that old conversational stand-by—
the weather. Another signal starts the circles mov—
ing again and the procedure is repeated. This
game should move quickly and should not be
played for too long a time.

Topics may be announced each time, if desired.
The first conversation might be based on the
amount of rainfall in the spring as opposed to the
autumn. The second might have as its subject the

 

truth of the statement that “April showers bring
May flowers.” Even your most weather-minded
guest will have trouble keeping the conversations

going.

Relay Games

Spring Showers. Any housewife finds that spring
showers on wash day are one of life’s tribulations.
\Vhen it rains, in comes the wash and after the
shower it has to be hung up again. In this game
the party guests will have a chance to follow the
footsteps of the housewife on a typical wash day
111 spring.

Teams stand in single file, lined up behind a
starting line. Stretched across the opposite end of
the room is a length of cord—the clothesline. In
front of the line and opposite each team is a box
of clothespins and an improvised “wash basket”
in which are several articles reminiscent of the
weekly wash. Use your imagination and the re-
sults will be hilarious.

Upon the signal, the first person on each team
runs up to his respective wash basket, takes out the
articles, hangs them on the line with the clothes—
pins, and runs back to the starting point. If an
article falls down, however, he must go back and
fasten it securely. The second person on each
team runs up to the line, takes down the wash,
puts it back in the basket and places the clothes-
pins in their box. The game continues until the

729

730 AN APRIL SHOWER

winning team finishes first in this uproarious relay.
And it deserves to win!

A Walk in the Springtime. The teams again form
single files behind the starting line. The first per-
son in each team receives a suitcase. On the signal
each one races to the designated goal, opens the
suitcase, takes out and puts on a raincoat, sou’wes-
ter, and overshoes. Provide buckled galoshes, if
any can be found. When he is all dressed and well
protected against the spring showers, the player
closes the suitcase and sprints back to the starting
line. There the next person on his team helps him
remove the clothes and put them back in the suit-
case. Then the second person takes the suitcase
and repeats the procedure. The team whose mem-
bers first complete their springtime walks is the
winner.

Spring Beauties Race. Players once more divide
into teams, each group being given the name of a
flower. Each “flower family” lines up single file
behind its team captain, who stands ready on the
starting line. Each person places his hands on the
shoulders of the individual directly in front of
him, making a solid line. Opposite each team is a
designated goal around which they must go.

The leader calls out different events in a series
of races and scores the winning team in each case.
The first event might be a walking race in which
the teams walk up to and around their goals, each
team member keeping his hands on the shoulders
of the person in front of him. (If a line is broken,
it cannot continue until each person again has his
hands in the correct position.) The group first
returning to its place at the starting point is the
winner. Other races in this series might be: run-
ning, hopping, skipping, walking backwards.

Sir Walter's Cloak. A man and a girl are selected
to represent each team. The men receive two
neWSpapers each. On a signal, the couples prog-
ress to the goal line and back again, the man
placing the newspaper first under one foot of the
girl then under the other, so that she does not
have to step on the floor. If the girl steps on the
floor, the couple must begin over again. First
couple to finish wins.

This game may also be played in relay style.
Each team is made up of couples who race to the
goal via the paper route and return to pass the
paper on to the next couple on the team. The first
team to finish wins.

As another variation of this game individual
players may compete in team relays or with one
person representing each team. The first player is
supplied with two small pieces of cardboard. He
must stand on one foot on a piece of cardboard,
while he places the other piece in position for his
next step. Anyone touching the floor with either
foot must go back to the starting point and begin
again.

Pencil and Paper Games

Rain in Tin Pan Alley. Distribute pencils and a
copy of the list below to each guest. If players
glance casually at the list, they may think it noth—
ing more than a group of possible titles for “rain”
songs. However, upon examining the phrases
closely they will discover that every one is com—
posed of two separate sections, each a portion of
a, title of a well—known song connected with rain.
The object of the game is for the guests to un—
scramble the titles. This list given to them is below
on the left, and the unscrambled titles appear at
the right.

Listen in the Rain Listen. . .to the Patter of

the Rain
Painting the Rainbow Painting. . .the Clouds with
Sunshine
Singing to the Patter of Singing . . . . . ..in the Rain
the Rain
I’m Always Round My I’m Always . . . . . ..Chasing
Shoulder Rainbows
It Ain’t Gonna Be Your It Ain’t Gonna...Rain No
Umbrella More
Over the Clouds with Sun- Over . . . . . . ..the Rainbow

shine
There’s a Rainbow Chasing

Rainbows
Let a Smile Rain No More

There’s a Rainbow. .Round

My Shoulder
Let a Smile . . . . . .Be Your

Umbrella

These songs may be used in group singing at
the end of the evening to send guests home in the
proper “showery” spirit.

Rain, Reignl Rein. Quite a few words in the
English language which have different meanings
and are spelled differently are pronounced alike.
Ask guests to think up six or more sets of
homonyms, each consisting of three words. An
example is the title of this game: rain, reign, rein.
Others are:
fane, fain, feign

pare, pair, pear
peek, peak, pique
sent, cent, scent

two, to, too
vein, vane, vain

way, weigh, whey
wear, ware, where

AN APRIL SHOWER 731

As an alternative, players might list homonym
sets composed of two words each. These are some
of the sets they might record:

all, awl heel, heal pray, prey
born, borne lea, lee straight, strait
bow, bough mane, main style, stile
faint, feint mien, mean tare, tear
feet, feat peel, peal there, their
grate, great peer, pier ‘wait, weight
hare, hair plane, plain wave, waive

The person with the longest list, in either case,
is the winner.

Spring Fever. This very common ailment is often
blamed for many peculiar actions, so you can
probably lay the blame here for the following
pixilated proverbs, sayings, and selections about
spring, sunshine, and showers. I ‘

Give the guests a list of these verbose phrases
and see if they can translate them into ordinary
English. Thus, “It is precipitating felines and
canines” emerges as the frequently used phrase,
“It’s raining cats and dogs.” See how many of
these you can guess yourself :

1. Precipitation, precipitation, remove thy immediate
presence from this place to some other locality; re-
turn upon another occasion.

2. Into each term of conscious existence a certain
amount of precipitation is required to decend.

3. There exists an agreeable condition of the atmos-
phere on every occasion when congenial companions
congregate.

4. The object in question descendeth in the manner of
soft liquid falling in condensed drops from the
region of celestial glory upon the site immediately
below.

5. The atmospheric disturbances which occur during
the third period of lunar revolution, when combined
with the sudden precipitatious during the fourth
month, produce at the time of the fifth lunar revo—
lution plants esteemed for their blossoms.

6. The light produced by beams radiating from the
luminous celestial body which is the center of the
solar system comes immediately after the steady

descent of drops of condensed vapor.

7. In my Opinion it fails to precipitate ordinary drops
of condensed vapor; the precipitation at this time is
producing a species of narcissus characterized by
large single or double blossoms.

8. Oh, to be present in that part of the British Isles
which is south of Scotland and east of Wales now
that the fourth month of the year has arrived in
that vicinity.

9. If the season in which the noonday sun shines most

obliquely descends upon us, is it possible that the
time of the vernal equinox can be very much in the

future?

Answers
1. Rain, rain, go away; come again some other day.
2. Into each life some rain must fall.

3. It’s always fair weather when good fellows get to-
gether.

4. It droppeth as the gentle rain from Heaven upon the
place beneath. '

5. March winds and April showers bring forth May
flowers. .

The sunshine follows the rain.
. It isn’t raining rain to me, it’s raining daffodils.

. Oh, to be in England now that April’s there.

somng

. If winter comes, can spring be far behind.

Refreshments

The End of the Rainbow. This search for the end
of the rainbow is built around a string maze. Red

and white string—wor any other two colors—are
used. Each man is given the end of a piece of red
string; each girl receives the end of a white string.
All are to follow their individual strings and find
their way through the tangle—'to the end of the
rainbow. There a girl, for example, would dis—
cover that her string joins a red one with an ex—
planatory note. The note says: “Wait for your
partner, then go quietly into the next room.”

One by one the couples vanish. Finally when
the last person untangles his string and joins his
partner to hasten into the next room, he finds
everybody else already there—waiting for refresh—
ments.

What could be more appropriate for an April
party than umbrella favors? Tiny umbrellas can
be made by tying a pleated frill of brightly colored
paper to a length of pipe cleaner. Bend the other
end of the pipe cleaner around to form a base. A
little glue on the base will attach the umbrella to a

card. A perky bow might be tied on the umbrella
handle.

If the guests are to be served buffet style, place
a favor on each plate with a slice of “pot of gold”
cake (yellow cake). The bowl of punch on the
refreshments table might be appropriately labeled
“Rain Water.”

The refreshments table itself may be covered
with strips of colored paper glued together for a
rainbow effect. Thus, as spring showers gradually
do, this “April Shower” ends with a rainbow.

VERY NOON, at the Goddard Neighborhood
Center in New York City, from eighty-five
to a hundred boys and girls used to eat

lunches furnished by the Board of Education and
served by girls from the NYA. Then. suddenly
the Board ruled that the noontime meal should be
served at the schools, and the lunches at our Cen-
ter were discontinued. We now had a problem on
our hands—a lunchroom full of green tables and
benches which were hardly suitable for a club or
game room.

For a long time one of the major problems of
the Center had been the hallways where boys and
girls hung around talking and loitering with noth—
ing to do. Whenever a staff member tried to clear
the hall, the answer was always the same, “Where
can we go 3’” And they were right—all the rooms
were in use and these young people had no place
to go. They didn’t want to go home; they wanted
to go where their friends went and do what their
friends did—they wanted to listen to music, to
read, dance and lounge.

Finally an idea came! Why not make the old
lunchroom into a senior lounge, a “hangout” room
for all those over seventeen years old? A com-
mittee of older boys and girls was set up and a
meeting called. They were all enthusiastic, but
they soon discovered that the room couldn’t be
used as it was, crowded with empty tables and
benches. The committee wanted a room with a

732

 

homey atmosphere, a room with curtains, lamps,
rugs and sofas, and they decided to fix it them—
selves.

A “work day" was proclaimed and the commit-
tee reported for duty. Tables and benches were
taken out, the room was painted, the floor waxed,
and the girls went to work on the curtains. Mem—
bers of the Board of Directors were told of the
scheme and asked to donate furniture. A rug, a
few chairs, tables, lamps soon began to arrive and
some furniture was taken from other rooms in
the Center to make ready for the gala opening
party planned by the committee. A meeting of
the entire group was held at the party and sug-
gestions were asked from everyone. The most
frequent complaint was “Why no music?” or
“The room isn’t complete without a radio.”

This was problem for the seniors. An older
boys’ council took up the matter and put on a
special dance in the gymnasium with profits to be
used for a radio. The dance was a success and
the new radio was soon installed in its corner.
\Vith an admission price of ten cents, dances were
continued each Friday evening and attendance
soon rose to 400. Some of the proceeds were used
for other activities at the Center, but'the boys did
buy chairs, a sofa and tables for their lounge, and
took great pride in their accomplishments.

At first the’ lounge was open three evenings a
week but when the demands grew it was opened

t

 

From

Lunchroom

live evenings each week from 7:30 to 10:00. A
member of the staff acts as host or hostess each
evening. They provide the players with games
and equipment, wander among the groups and
often take part in the impromptu discussions.

Soon boys and girls from the soda fountains
and the candy store hangouts began to come over.
They read, listened to their favorite radio pro-
gram, chatted with friends or waited for their
class or gym period to begin. The increasing re-
quests for table games prompted a committee to
purchase a supply of these games and the tables
are always in use.

There was a growing need for books and maga-
zines, since the few brought in by members and
friends were not enough to supply the demands.
Once again a committee was set up, this time to
study the library problem. They made Up a ques-
tionnaire of pertinent questions and circulated it
among the members. Do you think books should
be taken from the room? Should there be fines?
Check your favorite magazine. What kind of
books do you like? Would you like to build the
bookcases? Do you think the bookcases should
have doors and be kept locked? The survey

showed interesting results. One of the most heated '

discussions was over the problem of locking the
bookcases. The group finally decided that they
were no longer children and could be trusted with
the open cases.

lngenuity and imagination, plus the
willingness to work, won for these
young people an attractive meeting

place at Goddard Neighborhood
Center in New York City

Under the leadership of a staff member two
Saturdays were spent building bookcases for about
600 books. When completed, the shelves and walls
were painted cream and light blue to harmonize
with the curtains. Board members had solicited
books from their friends, and about 400 books
were already waiting to go into the new cases.
One board member provided money for a maga-
zine fund and a subcommittee was authorized to
purchase weekly and monthly magazines.

Again the committee went into action on the
problem of operating the library. Books were
classified according to the Dewey Decimal system
and everyone was asked to pay an initial fee of
five cents for a borrower’s card. Magazines and
books were to be checked out as in a public library.
Fines, length of loans, and renewal policies were
debated by the group. The host or hostess and
two members of the library committee are respon-
sible for the operation of the library each night.
Actual results of the newly-established library
cannot be measured yet, but at least these young
people are learning to shoulder responsibility and
take an interest in their own work.

Every neighborhood or community center needs
a lounge, a “drop in” or “hangout” room. If the
young people become interested they will enjoy
cooperating and many problems of organization
and operation will be solved. Careful considera-
tion should be given to the location of such a
lounge. We are fortunate in having our room on
the second floor and, therefore, out of the way of
those who merely pass through the lobby and are
so often tempted to stop and loiter at doors that
appear inviting. It is next to a small kitchen with
a connecting door which, when open, makes an
ideal counter from which to dispense refresh-
ments. One entire end of the room is made of
folding doors which can be opened to make the
room twice as large and provide an excellent
place for dancing at special parties.

Now that the abandoned lunchroom at our Cen-
ter has become such a successful senior lounge, we
are working on plans to establish a similar room
for younger b0ys and girls from fifteen to seven-
teen years old.

733

Joop to the Rescue!

/

stricted to children’s theaters, but one theatri-

cal group seems to have discovered a solution
for the juvenile branch of the problem at least.
The newest champion of the intelligent audience
is Joop, the Giraffe, long-necked mascot of Junior
Programs, Inc., with headquarters at 37 West
57th Street, New York City.

These non-commercial children’s producers,
who number among their audiences 1,500,000
young people in the United States and Canada,
have adopted Joop as a means of educating chil-
dren in the rudiments of audience courtesy. The
giraffe has become the symbol of the perfect audi—
ence—he can make no sound, therefore never
shouts, whispers, or coughs; doesn’t rattle the
furniture; always sees without standing up; rarely
needs a drink of water; and is generally peaceful
and 'well behaved.

The original loop, a former inhabitant of East
Africa who was adopted by Junior Programs and
christened with milk in 1939, remains in Frank
Buck’s “Jungleland.” But his life-size facsimile
appears at every Junior Programs ballet, opera and
play to remind the young audience that a Joop
Club member is always courteous. loop is the
property of the organization and may be used only
in connection with its performances.

When the big giraffe stretches his five-foot neck
from behind the curtain in towns and cities
throughout forty-six states this season, children
from four to sixteen will be getting their lessons
in top ranking entertainment as well as in audience
courtesy from Junior Programs.

This five year old organization attempts to bring
the best in drama, opera and ballet to children of
all economic groups. Last year its three traveling
companies nearly doubled their itinerary, gave 558
performances before the
wide-eyed children of 220
communities, and covered
over 80,000 miles from
Maine to Florida, as far
west as California and north
to British Columbia.

Traveling in automobiles
and trucks bulging with
scenery and stage equip-

734

THE PROBLEM of audience courtesy is not re-

"The spontaneous rise and rapid growth in
America of a movement guiding children and
youth to a knowledge and appreciation of
the best in drama. music and the other arts
through the'voluntary efforts of parents'
teachers. university women. and social and
civic agencies furnishes a pointed com-
mentary on national cultural development
in a democracy."—Dorotby L. M cFadden,

Founder-DirectorI Junior Programs. Inc.

ment, more than fifty adult professional perform—
ers bring music and drama to children in cities and
rural centers. Opera singers, ballet dancers, act-
ors, musicians, lecturers and puppeteers perform
for their young audiences under the sign of the
long-necked giraffe.

From hundreds of possible manuscripts and
books, plays, operas and ballets are selected and
adapted by Junior Programs for its child audi-
ences. Its professional entertainers then put the
selected work into production, pack it up in trucks
and begin their many-week tours. Under the
sponsorship of local civic organizations through—
out this country and Canada, these productions
are offered to children at an average of ten to
twenty-five cents, with free admission for the
underprivileged child who cannot afford even
this price.

Although the organization began as a service
bureau and general reviewing medium for chil-
dren’s entertainment, much of the emphasis in
recent years has been on its own productions.
This season they are not booking directly any
lecturers or individual concert artists, although
they continue to lend the Junior Program name to
some of the shorter programs which have been
approved by their advisory committee.

The guiding principles which have resulted in
a phenomenal five year growth in this movement
are, hrst of all, that children’s productions must
be of the highest caliber and suited to the special
needs of a young audience, and, second, that
sound planning and organization will enable a
community of any size to bring the best in pro-
fessional entertainment to its youth.

With the help of an educational committee,
project material is provided for schools in com—
munities where the productions are scheduled.
Many departments and
clubs can coordinate this
material with their own
work and help to prepare
the children for apprecia-
tion of the programs. Such
projects are easily worked
out with the aid of special
stories, games, dances, art

(Continued on page 750)

l

' l

l I

Softball—the New American Fever

HEN THE 1940 \Vorld’s
Softball Championships
closed in Detroit, Michi-
gan, on September 10th, and
the Kodak Park of Rochester,
New York, had won the desig-
nation of \Vorld’s Champion
(men’s division) while the
Ramblers of Phoenix, Arizona,
had attained the goal of _com-
petitive softball among women players, the game
of softball had passed through its most successful
year .of play. More than a half million teams
played in games this past year-———on sandlots, city
playgrounds, athletic fields, and in great parks. In
most towns and cities in every state in the Union,
leagues and tournaments were organized to pro-
vide opportunity for competition that would
eventuallydetermine the team to represent that
state in the national champion—
ships. And for every team that
entered a league to gain cham-
pionship recognition
there were twenty
teams playing soft—
ball for “the fun of
the game." Sports
writers and officials
who are close to the
game have stated
that more than
10,000,000 players
participated in or—
ganized games last
year and that the
fan attendance
would reach astro-
nomical figures.
This is softball,
baseball’s kid broth-
er, the new Ameri—
can fever, the sport
miracle, the game
that ranges in its
demand of skill and
ability from the rec-
reative efforts of
Lowell Thomas’s

“ Nine Old Men ”

By ARTHUR NOREN

Mr. Noren, who is Superintendent of
Recreation in Elizabeth, New Jersey.
is secretary of the Joint Rules Com-
mittee appointed by the National Rec-
reation Association. He is author of
Softball, one of the series of books
in the Barnes Dollar Sports Library.

Softball, starting informally on the
playgrounds of Americal is now played
in all corners of the United States

 

Com-tesy Department‘- of Public Recreation, Reading, Pa.

t0 the lightning fast, stream—
lined game which attracts play-
ers of the calibre of Ken Kelt-
ner of Cleveland and Tommy
Henrich of the New York
Yankees, who came up through
the softball way. It demands
the type of skill and energy
which was demonstrated in
Detroit last September when
Toronto, with Cam Ecclestone pitching, defeated
Phoenix, Arizona, 1-0, in a twenty—four inning
game, the longest tournament game on record. In
the last inning, Len Murray, seventeen year old
pitching ace of Phoenix, was hurling the ball as
fast as he did at the start of the game, hours earlier.

The Modest Beginnings of Softball

Just as the modern automobile, fast, stream—
lined, efficient, popular, has
little in common with the orig-
inal horseless carriage, so does
softball, as develop-
ed today, have lit-
tle in common with
the game which was
invented in a gym—
nasium in Chicago
in 1887, taken out
into the playgrounds
of that city and
promoted by the
public playgrounds
around the country
as a desirable out-
door game for play
in the small school
playgrounds. Some
will recall the game
as an insipid form
of baseball. In many
places it was known
as. kitten ball, mush
ball, diamond ball,
indoor-outdoor.
There was no uni—
formity in the rules
of play, and its im—
portance in the

735

 

n

736 SOFTBALL—THE NEIV AMERICAN FEVER

realm of sport and recreation was negligible.

In certain states, however, the game rapidly
progressed, better rules were devised, better equip-
ment was developed by the manufacturers, and a
request, so typical in the history of American
sports, for a body to promote the game by devis-
ing uniform rules and equipment, was presented
at a convention of public playground ofiicials in
Springfield, Illinois, in 1923. This date marks the
start of the development of softball as we know it
today. The committee appointed by Joseph Lee,
President of the National Recreation Association,
was later enlarged to form the present Joint Rules
Committee on Softball. The function of this com-
mittee has been to secure general acceptance, pub-
lication, and wide circulation of a standard set of
rules; to study the game in order to recommend
changes in rules that would benefit the largest
number or_ players; and, last but not of least im-
portance, to work with the manufacturers of
sporting goods to secure standard and satisfactory
equipment.

In 1932, attempts were made to form several
national organizations for the purpose of promot-
ing and controlling inter-city and inter-state com-
petitions in softball. This game was going through
the growing stages that have been typical of our
other American sports. The Amateur Softball
Association of America soon established its lead—
ership as a responsible sports—governing agency and
was recognized by the Amateur Athletic Union.
Unquestionably, much of the responsibility for the
growth and popularity of softball has been the
promotion and direction of city and state tourna-
ments, culminating in the World’s Championship
series, the sixth of which was held in Detroit last
September. In no other team sport do we have
the number of teams and individual players en-
rolled in a competitive program that is directly
related to a national championship.

Basically, the fundamentals of softball are the
same as baseball, the greatest of our American
sports. Batting and fielding strategy are pretty
much the same except that because the play of
the game is confined to a much smaller area, the
action seems to be and probably is much faster
than baseball. With the bases only si‘xty feet
apart, spectators are continually thrilled by fast
drives, bare-handed stabs and lightning throws.
Close decisions are the. rule on most plays, and
famous double play combinations are known in
every softball center. The game is fast, often
taking not more than an hour to complete seven

innings of play, and it has developed physical
skills that compare favorably with any of our
great sports.

Perhaps, the outstanding and distinctive tech—
nique in softball is the underhand pitching. Ameri—
can youth has been brought up on the tradition of
overhand and sidearm throwing, with amazing
accuracy, speed and control. To make certain that
batters could hit the larger, heavier ball, the rules
provided for underhand pitching, with the result
that a slow, loop pitch was common. However,
the usual tendency of the American athlete to
invent and develop special skills evidenced itself
in the realm of softball pitching.

Pitchers like Paul W’atson of Phoenix, Arizona,
John Baker of W estport, Connecticut, and
“Shifty” Gears of Rochester, New York, de—
veloped wind-ups that baffled the eye, followed by
a throw and release of the ball that traveled with
a speed comparable to the overhand hardball.
Practice, practice, practice—and a new sport tech-
nique had been developed. Amazing speed, spins,
hooks, slants and drops. The outstanding pitchers
(and their names soon became famous) had taken
soft softball from the small playground and made
it a major form of competitive sport. The un-
expected strength of the pitching has been coun—
teracted to some degree by increasing the distance
of the pitcher from the batter’s box (now fOrty
feet) and by eliminating some of the tricky, con—
fusing wind-up devices. The Rules Committee is
interested in securing a more nearly perfect bal—
ance between offensive and defensive play and
during the coming year will concentrate on study-
ing necessary steps to achieve this balance.

Softball is now accepted and played in every
corner of the United States and has followers in
Cuba, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, and other
countries. Great rivalries exist between various
states, and the claims to greatness in this sport
are made wherever softball followers gather.
Michigan, Arizona, Colorado, California have
each year sent strong representatives into national
competition. The cities of Rochester, New York;
Phoenix, Arizona; St. Petersburg, Florida; Eliza-
beth, New Jersey, and Detroit, Michigan, are typi-
cal points where unusual pitching has been de—
veloped, and, combined with excellent fielding and
strong hitting, they have produced top flight teams
every year.

As each major sport has its heroes whose feats
of skill are remembered, so has softball a galaxy

(Continued on page 745)

“n.4- "Imm-

~_

W u—a——_ I—Iv

" Park-Schools"

An Experiment in Cooperative Planning

By ROBERT E. EVERLY and JOHN MCFADZEAN

LENCOE is a suburban
6 residential community

located on the shore of
Lake Michigan, eighteen miles
north of Chicago, with a popu-
lation of 6700. There are nine
hundred children enrolled in
the public elementary schools.
The local school system in-
cludes grades from kindergar—
ten through eighth. Beyond
eighth grade the children at-
tend New Trier Township
High School. The school plant
consists of three elementary
buildings—North, Central and
South—names which seem to
emphasize utility rather than
history. Two of these build-
ings (North and South
Schools) are relatively new.

The oldest and largest building
(Central School) was replaced a '
year ago by a half-million dollar

structure.

At North School

The beginning of the experiment in coopera-
tion between Park and School Boards was at the
site of the North School. Adjacent to this school
site of approximately four and one-half acres the

Park Board acquired seven
and one-half acres of unde-
veloped property. The mem-
bers of the two boards then
planned how both areas
could be most effectively de-
veloped in the interest of all
persons living in the com—
munity. The construction
of a new state road passing
within one hundred feet of
the school building present-

 

Courtesy The American City

The amphitheater at North

School has been invaluable
as an outdoor classroom

ed a problem of safety. An
under pass was proposed and
the state cooperated in build-
ing one under the main road.
An additional measure of
safety was provided in the de—
velopment of a two hundred
and fifty car parking area at
the rear of the school build-
ing. Broken concrete from the
old State road was trucked in
and used as a base. With the
aid of WPA labor the concrete
was broken up, rolled, and a
top dressing of screenings was
applied. The following sum-‘
mer, after the area had com-
pletely settled, a contract was
awarded to fill all low spots

and apply an asphalt finished

top. This space now provides

parking facilities for all commu-
nity activities held at the North
School, as well as a safe place

for parents to deliver and call for
children. Ample play area has been provided for

Seven years ago the Park Board and the
School Board of Glencoe. Illinois. de-
cided to get together. Some courageous
individual had the temerity to suggest
that cooperation between these two civic
agencies might be an efficient. economi-
calI and intelligent way of doing busi-
ness. This article tells what happened.
The story is told by Mr. Everly. Super-
intendent of Parks' Glencoe Park Dis-
trict, and Mr. McFadzean. Administra-
tive Assistant, Glencoe Public Schools.

the school's physical education program and the
facilities necessary to meet the community’s rec-
reational needs. It should be noted that the smal—
ler children’s play areas are separated from play-
grounds used by the older children and adults,

and again safety was the
factor that dictated this
separation of play areas.

To the northwest of the
l‘uilding is a large athletic
field. This area provides
ample space for large group
games, such as baseball,
football, soccer, field hockey,
field ball, softball and other
similar activities. To pro-
vide seating accommodations

737

. 738 “PARK-SCHOOLS”

for spectators, a weathered-edge stone amphithea-
ter with redwood timber seats was built into a
small artificial hill and was entirely surrounded
with native trees and shrubs. This amphitheater
has also proved to be invaluable as an outdoor

classroom.

A fieldhouse constructed by the Park Board
houses offices for instructors, lockers, showers,
toilet facilities, and a small community room with
a fireplace. This room is used by Girl and Boy
Scout troops for their weekly meetings. Along
the extreme northern boundary of the plot lie the
greenhouse, or propagating houses, and the nurs—
ery. These are used not only for the very practi—
cal purpose of pro-
pagadng Park
Board shrubs, trees
and flowers but they
serve as out-of—door
laboratories in
which the children
of the schools may
actively participate
in work which
makes natural sci-
ence a bit more real
for them than does
reading about it out
of a book.

The‘concrete ten-
nis courts and sand
finished asphalt area
to the north of the
school provide wet weather
playgrounds. In the con-
struction of the tennis courts
careful thought was given .
to making them as flexible as possible. The double
tennis courts are separated by two shufHeboard
courts. Net posts were installed in sleeves, facili-
tating quick and easy removal for group games.
Extra sleeves were installed for volleyball and
paddle tennis posts, thereby making the area usa-
ble for all types of activities.

At one corner of the Park-School area the Park
Board and the Historical Society rehabilitated the
hrst log cabin built in Glencoe. A fourth grade
group from the schools, with the cooperation of
the local Historical Society, took the responsibility
of refurnishing the old cabin. The furnishings
include a rope feather bed, a spinning wheel dated
1848; an old cradle and a churn, all gifts from
members of the community. Many of these gifts

J"... IL; , - - . 1.

 

The wildflower sanctuary at South School
is bisected by tanbark walks along which
the wildflowers are planted in groupings

had to be repaired by the children in the school
shop before they became a permanent part of the
historic log cabin. Many other things were made
or repaired by this group—a copper bed warmer,
copper candlesticks, and an afghan and quilt for the
bed and the old-fashioned dresses and costumes.

In keeping with the rural and natural atmos-
phere surrounding the school, six foot flagstone
walks connect all areas. The walks are of selected
large flagstones and are laid in a sand base with
turf joints.

A word, in passing, on the planting of the de-
velopment. Utmost consideration was given to
screening, vistas, and plant material. On the
theory that a school
building should be
placed in a natural
park, the entire area
was heavily planted
with shrubs and
trees indigenous to
our locality, there-
by screening the
school and the play
areasfromthe
streets and residen-
tial district. Haw-
thorns were used in
place of fences,
their thorns form-
ing a very suitable
barrier from dan-
gerous highways.
However, every long vista
was preserved to prevent a
“chopped up” condition.

 

Courtesy The American City

The South School Project

A similar project is now nearing completion at
the South‘School. The Board of Education and
the Park Board again joined forces to develop an
out-of—door school and a recreation center which,
because of its natural topography and its wooded
areas, will be better adapted to school and com-
munity uses than the North Park. This plot in—
cludes seventeen acres, five of which belong to the
schools and twelve to the parks.

A wild flower sanctuary adjacent to the school
building is surrounded by a Lincoln rail fence.
Turnstiles and up-and-over stiles provide entrance
to the tanbark walks that bisect the area. Wild
flowers are planted in groupings along the walks.

(Continued on page 751)

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill’s Column of Nature—Grams

DULT EDUCATION. This spring the Wor-
cester, Massachusetts, Natural History So-
ciety is offering twelve hobby courses, eleven infor-
mational, six formal and four vocational courses.
On the front page of the descriptive folder they
quote from Dr. Alexis Carrel, “Our national des—
tiny is inseparably bound up with our individual
resourcefulness and initiative. . . . Our intellects
must. be kept supple by discipline.”

Astrology is the predicting of human events by
the tenet that stars and planets exert an influence
on people. The Boston and Cambridge Branch of
the American Association of Science Workers
reports that it not only lacks every conceivable
scientific foundation but that it is psychologically
harmful. Recreationists who care about .end re-
sults will hesitate to encourage horoscopes and
occult practices. The complete report will appear
in the Scientific Monthly.

Birds. “American Songbirds,” M. A. Edey.
Random House, New York, 70 pp. $1.00. Colored
illustrations by Fuertes. Excellent for the be-
ginner.

Birds. “Massacred for Millinery,” Richard H.
Pough. National Audubon Society, 1006 Fifth
Avenue, New York. $.10.

“Birds of the Grey Wind,” Edward A. Arm-
strong. Oxford University Press, New York, 228
pp. $3.50. Illustrated. Birds, poetry, and tradi-
tion of the wild cliffs of northern Ireland.

“Brashear, John Alfred, Scientist and Humani-
tarian, 1840-1920.” University of Pennsylvania
Press, Philadelphia, 220 pp. $2.25. A mill worker
who became a famous lens maker and university
president. A romance that has inspiration. His
former home is a settlement house in Pittsburgh.

Cactus Gardens in Miniature. Vic Brown
nature-grams that the latest vogue is to cut off
the tops of walnuts or pecans
and install cacti, the size of a
match. This led to potting
plants in cocoanut shells.

Camp Cookery. “Famous

Sportsmen’s Recipes,” Jessie
M. De Both, 605 N. Michigan

tional

azine.

"Nature-Grams" is a monthly service
of Recreation, published by the Na-
Recreation Association' 3|5
Fourth Avenue. New York City. Keep
abreast of the rapid growth in nature
recreation by subscribing to the mag-
Sencl for a sample copy.

Avenue, Chicago, 96 pp. $1.00. Dressings, trim-
mings, and combinations as well as favorite reci-

pes for preparing fish, game and fowl by seventy—
two distinguished outdoorsmen.

C C C Camps. These work camps, established in
1933. have helped to develop more than 2,500,000
young men. Will the work camp become a public
training institution for youth? \Vill youth and
this program be absorbed by the National De—
fense Program? For 24-page booklet describing
a three year investigation write for “The CCC,”
American Youth Commission, 744r Jackson Place,
Washington, D. C.

Civic Cooperation. The trafhc island at Fire
Headquarters, Cambridge, Massachusetts, has
been beautified with flowers. The staff of the
Children’s Museum launched the project; the
Street Department contributed fertilizer; the fire—
men gave the 700 plants needed and cared for the
garden; and thousands of passing citizens enjoyed
it. The Museum maintains a winter tree trail at
Fresh Pond in cooperation with the City Water
Department. It is a part of the Cambridge Public
School System and is housed in a building loaned
by Harvard University.

Conservation, U. S. Office of Education, Wash-
ington, D. C.

3. In the Education Program. Bul. 1937, No. 4,
78 pp. $.10.

4. Teaching in Elementary Schools. Bul. 1938,
No. .14, 125 pp. $.20.

5. Opportunities for Preparation, of Teachers.
Pamphlet 90, 13 pp. $.05.

All but Number 5 are illustrated; all but Number

2 are 1940 publications. All are well worth having.

Flowers. “American Wild
Flowers,” Cecile Matschat.
Random House, New York,
28 pp. $.50. Colored plates and
large colored pictures of nine-
teen common wild flowers for
children beginning to read.

739

740 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

Foresters. Austin F. Hawes, State Forester,
Connecticut, asks, “What of the CCC graduates
who have acquired a real love of the woods? Will
they prosper on war industries and then be thrown
on relief ?” He suggests that some of these de-
serving fellows be advanced plans and finances for
four room cottages, with subsistence gardens and
poultry for their own use. Each forester could
have free wood for the cutting. Professor Hawes
estimates that eventually the state forest program
of 200,000 acres could support a hundred families

as state forest residents.

Forest Service Films in production: “Vanish—
ing Herds,” wildlife protection; “Blessings of
Grass,” grazing in national forests; “The Strength
of the Hills,” fire prevention; “The Forest Ranger
at Work.” These 16 mm. films are loaned free.
Obtain name of state film library, Division of In-
formation, Department of Agriculture, Washing-

ton, D. C.

Gardening Objectives: exercise, financial profit,
a good hobby, to beautify, fellowship, sheer joy,
awards. Number these motives in the order of
importance to you. Now read what Longfellow
said, “The talent of success is nothing more than
doing what you can do well, and doing well what—
ever you do, without a thought of fame.”

Gardens. “Green Enchantment,” The Magic
Spell of Gardens, R. E. Clarkson. Macmillan
Company, New York, 329 pp. $3.00. A charm
book for garden lovers with an historic background
of the art.

Handcraft. Toothpick building with household
cement is a master hobby. Would you start on an
airplane, bridge, ship, windmill, auto or fire tower?
\Vrite National Pickbuilder Club, 119 West 57th
Street, New York City. Inclose three cent stamp.

Landscaping. “Plantings for Florida Homes.”
Extension Division, Univeristy of Florida, Gains-
ville. A looseleaf notebook which might help the
individual anywhere.

Literature Gem. “Accuse not nature; she hath
done her part; do thou but thine !”—]0hn Milton
(1608-1674), English poet. Milton had “Nature—

Grams” in mind.

Mammoth Cave. Inhabited by aborigines cen-
turies ago. First known to white men in 1799.
Called “the great hole in the ground in Kentucky”
by Ralph Waldo Emerson. Administered and
protected by National Park Service in 1936. New
caverns were discovered in 1938. A new five mile

section will be opened to the public in 1942. Re-
markable labyrinth of gypsum crystals, massive
dam of travertine, believed to be the largest in
the world.

Nature Recreation Campaign of the Society of
Recreation Workers of America. One hundred
thirty-nine have pledged to undertake children’s
garden plots; ninety-six to sponsor geological
hikes; ninety-two to work on a playground mu-
seum; eighty-two for guided tours; sixty-one for
nature inspired handcraft ; fifty to plant vines, to
run bird—warehouses for nesting materials, or to
make bird furniture. Thirty-six plan to organize
skyscraping expeditions. The list then tapers to
such intriguing interests as one volunteer for fish
hatcheries and nut orchards. Vic Brown is the
chief stimulator-and enterpriser.

Nature Tonic in the Winter. From I. Otis
Swift’s “News Outside the Door,” World Tele—
gram, January 22nd: “When human folk . . . pon-
der on how much longer the war among humans
can go On without endangering man’s frail foot-
hold on the revolving earth. Millions of periwin-
kles came as ballast ninety years ago, are multi-
plying south in billions. Baby oysters, refusing to
be wiped out by sewage, are cemented to ledges.
Soft-shell clams suggesting New England chow-
ders. Jingle shells, sounding like gold coins when
shaken together. On our way back to savagery we
can use them for money.”

News, Nature. Watson Davis, director of Sci—
ence Service, Twenty-first and Constitution Ave-
nues, Washington, D. C., has invented a plan that
will appeal to those who want to keep up with
newest developments in natural science. Each
month a new “thing” arrives in a box. A finger—
print set with inkless method, a meteorite sample,
sheets to tell the story of polaroid, unusual candy
developed from whey by the U. S. Bureau of
Dairy Industry, etc. Twelve “things” cost $4.00.
You will have to make the decision—how much is
it worth to keep up to date?

Outdoor Recreation Conference. The eighth
annual conference, March I3 to I6, 1941, at Mas-
sachusetts State College, will be built up under the
following sections: golf, winter sports, community
recreation, hunting, fishing, forestry, archery,
hotels and clubs, horsemanship, nature, gardening,
photography, camping, mountaineering, water
sports, and a large exhibit. Program is available
free on request.-

WORLD AT PLAY

 

ON JANUARY 11th the

Sk t T ' L
a 6 ram eaves New Haven Railroad

New York City

 

from New York City
to Hatch Lake in the Berkshire foothills. The
train left New York at I :30 P. M. and returned at
9:30, permitting five hours of ice sports. Activi-
ties consisted of skate sailing; hockey in which
impromptu groups from Columbia and New York
University took part; speed, figure, and free skat-
ing ; and ice dancing. There were impromptu con-
tests in ice dancing, school figures, and speed skat-
ing. 'A bulletin issued by the College Skating Club
gave information regarding the train and the pro-
gram, suggested the equipment and clothing de-
sirable, and recommended a number of books to
be read before embarking on the adventure. “Come
one, come all,” urged the bulletin. “Bring back the
happy skating days of 1890.”

A RESIDENT of “fins-
ton-Salem, North Car-
olina, whose great
hobby is birds, was
asked by the \Ninston—Salem Bird Club of which
he is a member to draw up a constitution and by-
laws for the club. After much thought he pro-
duced a constitution which was adopted by the

club. The document contains exactly five words:
“To study and befriend birds.”

Five Words in This
Constitution !

PUPILS at Edison
School, Altadena, Cal~
ifornia, have their own
governing board of
control of the after-school recreation center at
their school, according to the Pasadena Star News.
The board, elected by the entire Edison recreation
membership, in turn appoints committees to assist
in the smooth running of the playground’s activi-
ties. There are two important committees: the
sportsmanship committee which handles the sports-
manship and behavior of boys and girls while on
the playground, and the safety and grounds com-
mittee composed of two groups—one from the red
division and one from the black—with each group
serving a week in turn. This committee watches
to see that no one climbs fences or backstops, rides
a bicycle on the playground, or does anything else

Their Own Governing
Board of Control

ran its first skate train \

which might result in an accident. The committee
also works to keep the grounds as clean as pos-
sible, not only through personal effort but by urg-
ing others to take pride in the appearance of the
playgrounds. SO successful has the plan been that
similar boards are being considered at other cen-
ters sponsored by the Pasadena Department of
Recreation.

THE STATE Planning
Board and Advisory
Council of Recreation,
according to the Tampa
Morning Tribune, has approved a five-point pro-
gram calling for the acquisition of state land taken
in under the Murphy Act to be used for state
parks; the development of water front park areas;
a master plan of recreational areas for the entire
state; the establishment of the Everglades Na-
tional Park; and the enactment of necessary legis-
lation to create a game and fresh water fish de-
partment free from political and commercial in-
terference. The Council made plans to draft nec-
essary legislation and submit the program to the
1941 legislature.

Recreation Program
for Florida

THE MANY friends of
Dr. Henry S. Curtis,
executive secretary of
the Detroit-Huron-
Clinton Park & Parkway Association, will be glad
to have the word that the bill to provide for the
incorporation of the Huron-Clinton metropolitan
authority in Michigan, which was submitted to the
people for a vote at the time of the last election,
carried by a vote of a little more than two to one.
This bill permits the counties of Wayne, Wash-
tenaw, Livingston, Oakland, and Macomb to join
in a metropolitan district for planning, acquiring
and operating, either within or without their
limits, parks, connecting drives, and limited access
highways. It provides for the taxes necessary for
these purposes, and for the issuance of self-liqui-
dating bonds for the purpose of acquiring or im-
proving any revenue-producing recreational fa-
cilities. It authorizes condemnation of private
property for these purposes.

The area involved covers a territory of 3,250
square miles, effects nearly three million people,

741

New Park District
for Michigan

742 W'ORLD AT PLA Y

 

(- Here’s the W

New
NAMOND

‘3'. vs" "
I

   

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
made! Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysisI heat-
treaied steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
meni shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

 

and has an assessed valuation of about four
billions.

Georgia to Be Host to Park Conference—
The Twentieth National Conference on State
Parks will be held at Pine Mountain State Park,
Georgia, April 21—23, 1941. Mr. Charles N. Elliott,
of the Department of Natural Resources, with
headquarters at Atlanta, delivered the invitation,
first at Itasca State Park on the occasion of the
eighteenth National Conference in 1939, and again
at the nineteenth Conference, held in Illinois and
Indiana in May of 1940. The Georgia Park and
Recreation Association will act'as hosts. Colonel
Richard Lieber, chairman of the Board, has ap-
pointed a Program Committee consisting of H. S.
\Vagner, president; Herbert Evison, Charles N.
Elliott, L. S. Trimble, and Harlean James. Her—
bert Evison has been asked to serve as chairman
of the Program Committee. The hosts are plan-
ning an interesting series of entertainments in
addition to an unusually stimulating program on
state park problems.

A post—conference visit to near-by Florida State
Parks is being arranged for those who register
for it.

A Ten Year Old Symphony Orchestra—The
Lansing, Michigan, Symphony Orchestra is cele—
brating its tenth anniversary this year with four
concerts. The Symphony Association cooperates
with the City Recreation Department, sponsors of
the Lansing Unit of the Michigan Music Project.
Dr. Pedro Paz is conductor and Donald Dickson,
noted young baritone, was first soloist this year.
The last of the four concerts is scheduled for

April 22.

A Summer Night’s Song Festival—Glee club
history was made on June 19, 1940, according to
the fall issue of The Keynote published by the
Associated Glee Clubs of America, when the nine-
teen clubs of the North Jersey District presented
a concert in VVarinanco Park, Elizabeth, under the
auspices of the Union County Park Commission.
The stage, placed on the field in front of the
stadium, lighted by groups of high wattage lamps,
shone silvery white among the green of the trees
and made a charming setting for the great chorus.
F our Boy Scout trumpeters sounded “assembly,”
and the chorus marched in to the strains of Bor-
der Ballad. The singing of America by the audi—
ence and chorus as the national emblem was slowly
hoisted in the blaze of the spotlight brought a
memorable evening to a close.

A New Dramatic Service—It has been an-
nounced that it will now be possible for Broadway
plays to be seen in every city and town of the
country through the medium of 16 mm. films. Ex-
act reproductions of plays, filmed with stage tech-
nique, will be presented at local non—theatrical
showings. These films will be distributed by
Theater-on—Film Inc., 729 Seventh Avenue, New
York City, which is headed by Joseph Pollak. The
company’s program for this season will consist of
from four to six productions culled from the best
of available stage plays. Theefirst production will
be “Journey to Jerusalem” by Maxwell Anderson.

“The Country Dancer”——The Country Dance
Society, Inc., 15 East 40th Street, New York
City, is issuing a quarterly publication known as
The Country Dancer. The four issues may be
secured for fifty cents a year; single copies at
fifteen cents. The first issue appeared in Novem-
ber, 1940.

The Tournament of Roses —- Nearly forty
California communities were represented by floats

—- ‘— 1._.___44 .

mm—‘wpv-

ROCKEFELLER ESTATE BECOMES PUBLIC PARK 743

Rockefeller Estate Becomes

Public Park

AMONUMENT to the Rockefeller family is near-
ing completion in East Cleveland, Ohio,
where a zoo-acre tract, once the secluded Rocke-
feller estate, is being transformed into a public
park to be known as Forest Hill Park. The prop-
erty was deeded to East Cleveland as 'a gift from
John D. Rockefeller, Jr., and in addition to the
donation of land, Mr. Rockefeller also shared with
the city and the \Vork Projects Administration
the cost of the park development.

\Vhen completed the tract will include eight
tennis courts, a baseball diamond, two bowling
greens, a basketball cage, shufHeboards, several
children's play areas, a lake for boating, a foot—
ball field. and a swimming pool. Approximately
eight hundred \VPA workers are currently en-
gaged in the task of transforming the rolling acres
of the estate into the pleasure reservation it soon
will be. As many as 1,400 men have been employed
at one time since the operation began two years ago.

Everything possible is being done to give the
users a maximum of enjoyment and the most' up-
to-date facilities available. Tennis courts have
concrete Hoors ; the boating lake, which covers an
area of five acres, is ringed by a system of pow-
erful floodlights which makes possible its use for
night ice skating in the winter; a boathouse at one
end of the lake constructed of buff stone includes
many of the facilities found in the modern club;
the bowling greens, 72 by 30 feet, are sodded with
a luxuriant growth of bent grass.

Several picnic areas have been provided which
are supplied with tables and stone cook stoves, and
there are shelters dotted about the park to pro-
vide escape from summer showers. A total of nine
thousand new shrubs and between five and six
hundred trees have been set out, and many thou-
sands of square feet of new sod have been laid.

Most of the facilities of the park will be ready
for use theearly part of next summer. The park
in its entirety, however, will not be formally
opened until later.

in the mile-and—a—half procession of the Tourna-
ment of Roses in Pasadena on New Year’s morn-
ing. “America in Flowers” was the theme of the
fifty-second annual celebration which formally
opens the “7 inter season in California. This oldest

 

 
     

HE Second Edition of
our "GOOD MORNING” manual on

early American dancing should be in the
library of every teacher and student of
physical training, recreation director, com-
! munity leader, club and summer camp.

The book, with reinforced binding permitting the
pages to lie flat when opened, is 7 by 101/2 inches
and contains music and descriptions of 41 dances
now being taught in universities, colleges and public
schools throughout America. It includes authentic
quadrille music, waltz quadrilles, Lancers, minuet,
contra and couple dances, diagrams, and 17 singing
calls, the words of which fit the movements of the
dance.

0 Order your copy now.
Single copies 50c.
Orders for five or more 25c

Our first edition of "Good Morning," a textbook
on early American dancing, is still available and
contains information not included in the second vol-
ume. Prices on this edition are the same as those
quoted for the second book. In ordering, please
mention whether the first or second edition is desired.

Please address all communications to:

Brim. B. LOVETT

Lovett Hall
The Edison Institute Dearborn. Michigan '

       
 

of American folk festivals was started January I,
1890 as a picnic by a hunt club and has since
developed into a multi—community fete. The true
spirit of the Tournament is found in the small
communities where all the citizens—artists, dor-
ists, lumbermen———cooperate to build the doral

entry.

Tennis Courts Become Skating Rinks —— In
Spokane, \Vashington, the tennis courts have been
curbed for ice skating for shallow flooding during
the winter months.

A Community Bulletin Board—The Recrea-
tion Department of Brattleboro, Vermont, of
which Frederick Martin is director, has arranged
with a local bank to have a bulletin board in its
window with the title, “Community Bulletin
Board.” The purpose is to make available to local
organizations a central place for posting any of
their notices or announcements. The responsibility
of the Recreation Department in this connection
is that of keeping the items up to date.

The first contribution of the Recreation De-

744 . WORLD AT PLAY

 

Mitchell Fold-o-Leg
tables are attrac-
tive. modern and
convenient. Easy
to handtewrequire
300%. less storage
space and seat
25% more. Smooth
tubular steel legs
are sturdy and
will last a life-
time. Used in hun-
dreds of schools
and institutions
for dinners, socials.
bazaars, etc.

Mitchell Products include Playground and Swim-
ming Pool Equipment, Dairy Barn Equipment
and Folding Stages for Music Groups.

'MITCHEIL MFG. C0.

3934 w. ronssr HOME AVE. MILWAUKEE. WISCONSIN
— SINCE 1896 —

partment was a display of snapshots tracing the
activities of Brattleboro’s new Recreation Depart—
ment. The pictures began with the first activities
sponsored by the Department to the present winter
sport and community center programs. A sign
was placed on the board with the title, “The Year
in Review—“Recreation Department.”

A Travel Contest—lee I mtructor, the School—
room Activities Magazine for Elementary Teach—
ers, is offering awards for the best letters of ap—
proximately five hundred words on “Where I
Should Like to Go on_My Vacation This Year—
and Why.” The contest is open to teachers who
are engaged in the practice of their profession or
who are qualified applicants for a position; to
superintendents, principals, supervisors, school 1i—
brarians, or anyone engaged in executive or secre-
tarial work in the schools. The closing date of the
contest is June IO, 1941, and awards will be made
by July Ist. For full details address W. D.
Conklin, Travel Editor of The Instructor, Dans-
ville, New York.

Safety in Kite Flying—Just a reminder. Kite
flying contests will soon be scheduled at all county
playgrounds. Hundreds of youngsters will be
making and flying kites. Some playgrounds offer
ideal kite flying conditions, being free from trees
and high power lines. Other areas are surrounded
by telephone poles and electric lines. Directors
should keep in mind the importance of safety in
kite flying, instructing youngsters to keep away
from telephone and high power lines during prac—

 

tice and contests. From Department of Recrea—
tion, Los Angeles County.

“Your Sport”—-—With this title a new “maga-
zine of playing sports” has appeared. It is being
issued, according to the publisher, Graham C.
Thomson, for people who work hard in an office
all day long and want to play hard in their time
off. It is designed to tell about the many games
and activities which can be played and enjoyed
with a minimum of cost and inconvenience. The
first issue, Winter 1941, contains information on
such subjects as army sports, swimming, fencing,
winter sports, game room sports, roller skating,
bowling, sports photography, and sport films. The
issue is profusely illustrated. The subscription
rate is $1.00 a year for four issues. Further in—
formation may be secured from Mr. Thomson or
Hugh Beach, editor, at 112 East 19th Street, New

York City.

Audubon Junior Clubs -— The coming of
spring brings to mind many things associated with
nature, among them the Audubon Junior Clubs
sponsored by the National Audubon Society in
the interest of conservation. These clubs are de—
signed to supplement school science programs and
to add zest to nature study. Ten or more children
of any age may enroll in a Junior Club, elect of—
ficers, and plan their own programs, adapting them
to their own interests and geographic location. A
teacher or other adult serves as adviser. The Na-
tional Audubon Society supplies its junior mem-
bers with bird membership buttons, introductory
bird study material and, through its junior paper,
suggestions for club activities. Over six million
children have been enrolled. Further information
may be secured from the National Audubon
Society at 1006 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

In Union County’s Parks—The 1939 total
attendance of 3,099,257 in the parks of Union
County, New Jersey, exceeds by more than 400,000
the previous record established in 1938. The at"
tendance for organized activities,which is recorded
separately for participants and spectators, shows
that 358,896, or nearly 90 per cent of the total
increase, occurred for active participation in vari—
ous sports, establishing a ratio of 60 to 40 for par-
ticipants and spectators. A combined total for the
winter sports months of January, February, and

 

A CITY PLANS FOR PLAY 745

December shows almost 300,000 visits to the
parks, more than double the number recorded for
the same period of I938. The foremost popular
activities on the list of fifty shown in the attend-
ance report were children’s play on regular park
playgrounds, baseball, softball, and picnicking.

Softball—the New American Fever
(Continued from page 736)

of stars, each of whom has his ardent supporters.
Harold Gears of the Kodaks ; Lou Abreo of the
Diesels of Peoria; Ecclestone of Toronto; Vera
Vining of Cleveland; Len Murray of Arizona;
these are some of softball’s Hall of Fame.

In the Days Ahead
And what of softball in the immediate days

ahead. There will be more games of softball
played this year than ever before. It will peculiarly
meet the recreation needs of the thousands of men
in our army training camps. The desire for mass
participation in athletics and the limited facilities
available will make softball the leading sport in
our camps.

\Vith a greater citizen interest in physical well-
being, thousands of men and women below or
above the draft age will want to play softball for
health, for fun, for physical fitness. Recreation
directors in industrial communities will stress the
value of the game as a safety valve for release of
emotional and physical tensions. Labor unions.
churches, fraternal organizations, playgrounds and
park groups, all are interested in this game which
for young and old, for novice and expert, and for
every cross-section of social strata, exemplifies the
democratic way of playing together.

Softball, a definite product of our city play-
grounds, is the American way of mass play.

A City Plans for Play

(Continued from page 725)

tion for a period of seven weeks. Two of these
centers were for preschool children only, one for
colored children, and five for children of all ages.
Boys and girls were urged to attend the play-
ground nearest their homes. At all the grounds
there was a total registration of 2,359 children and
young people of all ages ranging from three to
twenty years. Of this number 1,370 were boys
and 989 girls. There was a total attendance of
35.357 on all the grounds.

 

 , F‘” Playground and
.'   (f Recreational Departments

Complete Line of

a  . .
Z.- i};\ .
~:£=E:MI ' i

.- h I .1. 
"-‘-' 
. :'

  Equipment for all Sports

--: .7 . . . . .. \ _"Q£ . -

THE P. Gowémm SONS, inc.

JOHN AND FINDLAY SlS., (lNClNNAlI, OHIO

i

A major portion of the financial support was
secured from city and county funds and the re-
mainder from private contributions. The growing
success of the program has been largely responsi-
ble for the generous financial support given by
these agencies.

The daily program included games, music, story-
telling, and dramatics during the morning sessions,
and handcraft in the afternoon periods. Eighteen
trained leaders were in charge of the activities
which were offered daily between the hours of
9:00 A. M. and 4:00 P. M. To build up closer co-
operation among the children of the various
grounds, an interplayground game schedule in
dodge ball, softball, and volleyball was introduced.
Elimination tournaments were held in various in-
dividual and group games at each ground. Win-
ners from each center in the different events com-
peted at the all-playgrounds field day held the end
of the season.

To secure adult support and make possible ad-
ditional activities for the children, feature nights
were held weekly at each playground. Five dif—
ferent types of events were scheduled including
baby shows, pet shows, doll and hobby shows,

746 , SOFTBALL FOR OLDSTERS

PLAY SAFE

WITH

SAFEBAT

PREVENT ACCIDENTS WITH THIS

RUBBER COVERED
SOFTBALL BAT

Safe . . Durable . . Noiseless . . Popular

Write for Information

SAFEBAT COMPANY, Castile, New York

masquerades and lantern parades, and folk danc-
ing and stunts. To increase participation in these
events ribbons were awarded at the various pro-
grams which were attended by more than 6,000
people. To climax the‘summer activities each
playground held a handcraft exhibit.

The playground program in Hagerstown is en-
joying a steady growth, and with the continued
support the work is now receiving a splendid
development is assured.

At John Gould Goddard College

(Continued from page 727)

is known throughout Vermont. During the year
the group stands ready to send teachers, equipped
with phonograph records and source material,
anywhere in Vermont to teach country dancing——
a free service that arises from a genuine love for
the dance.

Throughout the year the group has bi-weekly
dances at some small hall or farmhouse in \Vash-
ington County, where the program is part recre-
ation, part study. Every summer they call out
competing teams from all over the state, and the
lawn tennis court at Goddard College is the stage
where men in white trousers and girls in peasant
skirts and aprons strive to win the big silver cup.
A couple of thousand Vermonters and summer
visitors come to watch and applaud Money M usk,
H ull’s Victory, Merry, Merry Milkmaids, and
dozens of similar dances done in the correct Ver-
mont fashion.

Last summer the rising interest in this form of
dance brought many out-of-staters, and Goddard
College followed this success with the offer to
sponsor a winter school with dormitory facilities
for those coming from a distance. Emerson Lang
of Danville directed the school, and its success
assures annual repetitions.

 

Softball for Oldsters

APROGRAM 0F SOFTBALL which appeals to all
ages was in operation in Columbia, Missouri,
during the summer of 1940, according to Kenneth
Osman, Director of Recreation. Hundreds of
adults, forty and fifty year old “veterans” who
formerly sat on the side lines and cheered the
younger players, donned their athletic togs and
took part on the modified softball program spon-
sored by the Recreation Commission.

Twenty-two organization-sponsored teams play-
ed a total of 250 games under the lights at the city
softball park during the past season. Fraternal
orders, business establishments, and independent

. organizations had teams in the softball leagues.

Just one league composed of six teams whose
players were chosen from the city at large engaged
in the speedy brand of ball with a twelve inch
sphere. The rest of the clubs enjoyed what might
be called a “fun and fumble” game, played with a
fourteen inch ball. No stealing is allowed in this
game, and the slow pitch is used. The game has
inexhaustible recreational opportunities since there
is little likelihood of a batsman striking out, and
the importance of pitching is reduced to a
minimum.

Individuals who never participated in softball
of the fast-pitch variety are now getting lots of
fun out of the same game with modified rules.
Since the ball must prescribe an arc in its course
from pitcher to catcher, the player seldom fails
to achieve a hit of some kind, although a few
strike-outs are registered, much to the amusement
of hundreds of fans who attend the “slug” fest.

Players in these leagues think as much of their
batting averages as seasoned professionals and
contribute to the maintenance of a bureau of
statistics, the purpose of which is to keep aver-
ages up to date and official. In some of the games
played during the summer as many as thirty runs
were totaled between the respective clubs, and
errors were quite frequent since the fourteen inch
ball is extremely elusive.

A base runner cannot steal, and any advance
other than that resulting from a base on balls is
made at the player’s own risk. The base runner is
permitted to attempt an advance on an unsuccess-
ful hit and run play, and may return to the
original base without risk of being put out, pro-
vided he makes contact with the base he is seek-
ing to reach. These are the only two playing rules

AIVAKE AND SING! 747

that differ from those used in the faster brand of
softball.

An added feature to the season of 250 games
is an all-star game between the National and the
American Leagues in mid—August and the con-
cluding exhibition, a three-game little world series
in September between the respective league win-
ners. Both events attract large groups, and a per-
petual trophy was put into circulation in 1939 as
a donation from a team in the leagues.

Recreation directors in communities facing a
decline of interest in softball because of the short-
age of hurlers of top ability to staff their fast-
pitch leagues will find this game of special merit.
Officiails will also find their pitching delivery inter—
pretations considerably lessened and umpiring
comparatively simple.

Awake and Sing!

(Continued from page 723)

In New York City alone there appeared in
public concerts last season approximately fifty dif-
ferent amateur choral organizations totaling nearly
5,000 singers. As a music critic I have access
only to figures concerning choruses which gave
concerts of sufficient importance to appear in
newsprint. How many more amateurs are singing
in volunteer choirs or in little-known groups
around this great city one may only guess. In any
case it’s a lot of people singing, and all for the
fun of it. There must be something in it.

The fact remains that there is something im-
portant in it for anyone who can sing, no matter
what his musical tastes. Some groups specialize
in ancient and long-neglected liturgical music;
others in the extremely modern pieces, and still
others in the best-known classic masterpieces and
popular favorites. There are organizations of
dozens of nationalities, each singing its own na—
tional music.

The reasons why choral singing has become such
a favorite American diversion are manifold. First,
this continent in general, and the big cities in
particular contain people of every race and creed
thrown together in what it is now unfashionable
to call a “melting pot.” For these people, each

thinking and speaking according to his particular-

background, music is, as Wordsworth called it,
the “universal language.” With music as a com-
mon cause, persons from every profession and
every social level come together to meet on a
friendly basis.

   
 

 

in Praise-Winning Use All Over the World

LOUDEN playground equipment is honor-

built from only highest grade materials
by master craftsmen; it is designed by experi-
enced engineers who know what playground
equipment must be; it is backed by the 72-
year-Old reputation for quality manufacrur-
ing and fair-dealing behind the J. E. Porter
Corporation. And yet—it costs the least be-
cause it outwears ordinary equipment by far.

Write for Our Catalog
Address: Dept. R-I

1‘
THE 1. E. PORTER CORPORATION

ILLINOIS

OTTAWA 1k

Manufacturers of the famous "London." "Chicago" and "Spaldinq"
lines of playground. gymnasium and swimming pool equipment

In Vermont there is a State Symphony Orches-
tra in which forty of its sixty members are ama-
teurs, eighteen of them women. I am told it is a
good orchestra, but to me the chief importance of
this organization lies in the fact that stenogra-
phers, mail carriers, housewives and barbers come
from all parts of this dignified little New England
state to express themselves through music. They
meet in weekly rehearsals, and the rest of the
loyal Vermonters turn out to hear the concerts.

Music is a thoroughly democratic institution
and, like religion, is no respecter of persons. Not
long ago I attended a choral concert of quite high—
brow music in New York’s Town Hall. My com-
panion, who knew most of the members of the
chorus, pointed them out to me: “The gray-
haired gentleman in the third row is president of
the . . . . . . Trust Company. The tall Irish fellow
next to him pushed a wheel chair at the World’s
Fair all last summer. That round-faced lady in
the back row is the manager of a big musical
agency; that’s one of her typists just back of her.”

“But how can I sing parts if I can’t read
music ?” you ask.

748

ALL-l/VEATHER HIKING

A

5 MONTHS”

TRIAL
0FFEB

. . . your opportunity

your name, address, and a dollar bill,
of the most stimulating and helpful

school magazines. 5 months’ trial
offer of the

Junior Arts and Activities
magazine for only

$1.00

. . . our opportunity

to prove to you the reason teachers
are turning to this new type of crea-
tive schoolwork and methods. Un-
equalled in the amount of usable proj-
ect material in each issue. If not en-
tirely satisfied with first copy—your
money will be refunded. Mail today,
really to become acquainted with one

and receive the next five issues of

Junior Arts & Activities

DEPT. R

740 RUSH STREET CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

 

If you sing a tune you can easily be shown how
to sing a part to it. At first it will be sufficient to
learn by ear. Some choral directors are fussier
than others, but many require no experience at all.
A good director can teach you a lot about music
if you are willing to learn. But you must get in
there and do it and it will surprise you how quickly
you will catch on.

“What will it cost?” you ask. Nothing more
than your time. A few very social organizations
charge dues to limit their membership. Sometimes
small fees are asked to pay for the music but they
are usually extremely modest. In any case it’s
much cheaper than going to the movies and in-
finitely more spiritually satisfying. Wake up and
start singing!

All-Weather Hiking

(Continued from page 717)

Emily’s impersonations; Dick’s patience in trying
to snap a butterfly; a little chipmunk; Art’s can—
teen; a slippery creek bed; ‘No smoking in the
woods, please’; Florence’s good nature; songs;
Harry, our ever present president; bird calls, in-
cluding that of the Orville bird; the delicious odor
of a peppermint patch; the Mueller brothers and
their efficient planning of hiking club parties ; Hil-
degarde’s ‘Fare, please’; the chorus on the bus;
lunch outdoors; the crossing of streams with and
without exciting adventures ; hot coffee; that tired,
healthy feeling; the return to the city-——‘So long,
see you in two weeks!’ ”

Evening hikes in Buffalo parks and occasional
excursions to other territory have been arranged——
to Angel Falls, to Pipe Creek Glen, Emery Park,
Letchworth Park, Olean Rock City, and a two
day trip in Allegany State Park. Best attended,
however, are the trips to the ever appealing hills
of Holland. Though thirty miles from the city,
their call is sufficient to assemble a gallant band
of early risers whenever the bus is chartered.

Recreation for February

The February issue of RECREATION containing
information regarding the recreation activities of
federal agencies and national organizations has
aroused much interest and many individuals have
ordered additional copies. As the supply is now
very limited we suggest that if you Wish extra
copies you send us your order at once.

_.-—--—_

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 749

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
2 Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 2

 

MAGAZINES

The Camping Illagazine, January 1941

“The Role of the Summer Camp in National De-
fense” by C. Walton Johnson

“Care of Food and Equipment on Trips” by Barbara
Ellen Joy

“Summer Camp Insurance” by Norman N. Godnick.
Discussion of lire insurance

Camping World, January 1941

“National Defense and Its Effect Upon Camping”
by Robert C. Marshall
“Rainy Day Programs” by Martha J. Wrotney

Children’s Institutions, January 1941

“Through Play to Cure” by Elsa Dudenhoefer. The
play phase of occupational therapy

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
February 1941

“Rockefeller Estate Becomes Public Park” by Don-
ald Cameron

“Approach to Dance Composition” by Elna Lillback

“The Next Trend in Skiing” by Harold M. Gore

“The Use of Visual Aids in Teaching Tennis” by
Florence L. Hupprich

Junior Arts and Activities, February 1941

“Safety is Ours If We Learn Safe Play” by Hazel
Morrow Daws0n

“Building a Rhythm Band" by Louise B. W. Woeppel

New Jersey illuuicipalities, January 1941

“How Municipal Development Can Aid Defense Pre-
paredness” by W. Phillip Shatts

Parks and Recreation, January 1941

“Establishing and Maintaining Ice Rinks” by George
B. Caskey

Service Bulletin (National Section on Women’s Athletics
of the American Association For Health, Physical
Education, and Recreation), January 1941

“Dryland Skiing” by Helen B. Lewis
“Co-Recreation at Noon Hour” by Dudley Ashton

PAMPHLETS

Areas Administered by National Park Service: Informa-
tion Tables

National Park Service, Department of the Interior,
Washington, D. C.

Children's Vacation Camps Served by Recreation Project
Work Projects Administration, Recreation Protect,
49 Fourth Street, San Francisco, Cal.

A Directory: Facilities for the Hard of Hearing and the
Deaf in the State of New York
Temporary State Commission to Study Facilities for
Hard of Hearing and Deaf Children and Adults,
480 Lexington Avenue, New York City

Educational Policies for Community Recreation
Educational Policies Commission, 1201 Sixteenth
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., price $.10

Family Life, Parenthood and._.Yonng People’s Relation-
shibs: A Selected Book List '
The Federal Council of Churches. 297 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York City, price $.15

llJllISVIllE BLUEBER
SOFTBALL BATS

Now offered in
8 distinctive

models

   
     
  
    

s3. .1!

' 0 Softball players
are now able to pick
a type of bat that ex-
actly suits their style of

hitting. Hillerich & Bradsby
has developed 8 dit-

terent models for every

type of hitter. These
models carry a number on
the barrel end of the bat for
easy identification. Write for
l94l catalog. .

The Hillerich 8’ Bradsby 1941 Rule Book
has just been issued. See your Dealer or
send 10c in stamps or coin to Dept. R.

  
 
 
 
  
   

The First Quarter Century of the Town Forest in Massa-
chusetts. Bulletin’ N o. 163

Massachusetts Forest and Park Association, 3 Joy
Street, Boston, Mass.

How to Build a Bluebird House by W. H. Hoffstot

W. H. Hoffstot, Borroughs Nature Club, 14 East
55th Street, Kansas City, Mo.

.4 [Manual of Cookery: For Boy Scouts

Home Economics Department, Kellogg Company,
Battle Creek, Mich.

Next Steps in National Policy for Youth
American Youth Commission, American Council on
Education, 744 Jackson Place, Washington, DC.

Radio and the Classroom
Department of “Elementary School Principals, Na-

tional Education Association, 1201 Sixteenth
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., price $.75

Trail Cookery: For Girl Scouts

Home Economics Department, Kellogg Company,
Battle Creek, Mich.

Winter Sports Round-Up 1940-1941
United States Travel Bureau, National Park Service,
Department of the Interior, Washington, DC.

ANN UAL REPORTS

Report of the State Commission of Forestry, Columbia,
S. C.: The Wisconsin Union, University of Wiscon-
sin. Madison, Wis.; WPA Recreation Project, .New
Bedford, Mass.: Laskiainen Yearbook, Leisure Edu-

cation Department, St. Louis County Rural Schools,
Virginia, Minn.

750 JOOP TO THE RESCUE!

JUST OUT
Two More Air Youth Books

BUILDING AND FLYING,
MODEL A'IRPLANES

This complete handbook tells everything you
want to know about building and Hying all
kinds of model planes. It also covers atmos-
phere and weather, games and contests, and
contains specifications for five models de-
veloped by Air Youth of America.

Illus. $2.00

YOUTH IN AVIATION

This manual for leaders of junior aviation
groups explains how to direct and organize
youthful enthusiasm and energy into active
aviation clubs, how to plan a program of
aviation activities. A great part of the book
is devored to an outline of the leader’s part
in supervising model building projects.

Illus. $2.50

Published for AIR YOUTH OF AMERICA by
D. APPLETON—CENTU RY COMPANY

35 West 32nd Street New York

 

Joop to the Rescue!
(Continued from page 734)

work, bibliographies of phonograph music and
books.

“Robin Hood” has been added to the repertoire
of the ballet company for the first time this year.
Old English music and authentic folk dances are
combined with ballet and modern forms in a
dance-story of the exiled British Earl who i1—
legally befriended the poor. Also on the program
is “The Adventures of Puck,” a ballet adaptation
of Shakespeare’s “Midsummer Night’s Dream”
which becomes a merry synthesis of poetry, music,
comedy and dancing.

The thirty-week schedule of the group is the
longest of any professional ballet company per-
forming this season. Record attendance to date
for any single performance of the entire organi-
zation was reached when 7,000 children packed a
hall in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, to see the “Pinoc-
chio” ballet.

The newest play, “The Emperor’s Treasure
Chest,” deals with South Americans. Especially

written for Junior Programs, it is the story of
old and new Brazil and is offered in cooperation
with the Columbia Broadcasting System’s Ameri-
can School of the Air as part of the United States
program of good will toward our hemisphere
neighbors. During their five-month tour the Junior
Programs players will also present “Run, Peddlar,
Run,” a story of New England in I730 with the
life and customs of colonial times mirrored in the
adventures of two young immigrants.

Special techniques are employed in adapting
these productions for the audiences. Many of these
techniques are unique with the Junior Programs.
An elastic directorial approach is required since
the interest of the children must be held con—'
stantly, and a high pitch of excitement and sus-
pense is retained from curtain to curtain. Just as
the drama technique is incorporated into opera
and ballet to heighten the interest and entertain-
ment value, so opera and ballet forms are used in
the plays.

The schedule for the opera company this year
includes the Russian fairy tale “The Bumble Bee
Prince” and a new American work “Jack and the
Beanstalk.” Eighty performances of “Jack and
the Beanstalk” exceed by two and a half times the ’
booking on a single operatic production of any
other professional opera company in one season.
In the past the high record for a single profes-
sional production in the United States was thirty—
five performances.

Already this privately-supported philanthropic
organization and its three traveling companies
have brought high calibre opera, ballet, drama and
concerts to more than 3,000,000 children. For the
first time in their lives many boys and girls have
seen “real live” actors and dancers performing
behind the footlights. Yet the director of Junior
Programs admits that there is much more to be
done.

Junior Programs, Inc., has proved that a real
need exists, yet the group has been able to reach
only two per cent of the children in the country.
Many millions of children still have never sat
awe-stricken as a slowly-opening curtain revealed
fairy tale people come to life, or watched a grace-
ful dancer put meaning into music. These are the
children Junior Programs directors and entertain—
ers are trying to reach as they expand their pro—
gram and add to the fieet of trucks bringing good
fun and good art to the children for whom “only
the best is good enough.”

A SODA-POP NIGHT CLUB 751

A Soda-Pop Night Club

SODA-P0P NIGHT CLUBS have been springing up

throughout North Dakota ever since the civic—
sponsored Dry Dock in Bismarck proved so suc-
cessful last summer. Recreation leaders in three
other cities have already copied the dry night club
venture of the capital city and found it profitable.

A “nothing-stronger-than-pop” club was the
final effort of community-minded citizens to find
inexpensive but wholesome recreation for the
young people of Bismarck. As in other communi—
ties, city leaders were constantly confronted with
the need for a place where economy—wise youth
could fine good, spontaneous entertainment.

Then someone suggested that everyone could
have fun at a civic night club where admission was
only ten cents and the strongest drink was pop.
Some people ridiculed the idea since an attempt to
set 11p a community club in 1939 had failed, but
the Recreation Board went ahead with their plans,
and on Friday night, June 28th, the club opened
in the big W'orld War Memorial building at the
capital. Two hundred and seventy-five “first night-
ers” from nine to fifty years of age danced to the
rhythm of a music master until twelve o’clock.

Patrons of the club continued to increase, and
by the first of October over 1,000 people were at-
tending the weekly dance sessions. The floor has
become so crowded that the evening is now divided
into two sections with youngsters under thirteen
dancing between seven and nine o’clock, and older
people on the floor from nine to midnight.

The Dry Dock is a typical night club with few
changes. Fun-seekers may reserve tables in ad-
vance, but admission is only ten cents a person.
Tables are scattered around the dance floor in ortho-
dox club style and a “soft” bar is Placed near the
orchestra stand. Patrons may help themselves or
be served with milk, pop, ice cream, candy, ham-
burgers and hot dogs. Dancers may come in
couples or alone.

Floor shows are a feature attraction at this civic
night spot. Dance contests, specialty dances, and
mimic sessions give the Dry Dock a night club
atmosphere, and an orchestra has now taken the
place of the music master in the self—supporting,
but non-profit club.

The Dry Dock was intended to run only through
the summer months, but the experiment has proved
so popular that it is being continued indefinitely.
High school boys and girls and college students
home for vacation were its most persistent patrons

F R E D M E D A R T
3524 DeKalb Street a.

  

As Originally
Developed by . . .

DR. FORREST C.

"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University or Kansas

Lawrence, Kansas

  

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-

ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating

exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi. '

WRITE FOR CATALOG
(Manufactured Under Exclusive License Agreement)

MANUFACTURING CO.

Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

 

m

during the summer, although younger and older
folk could always be seen watching the fun or
dancing. Parents were especially urged to attend
and many of them have become regular visitors.

The night club is directed by George Schaum-
berg, city recreation director and high school in—
structor. The city’s Board of Recreation, made
up of representatives of the City Commission, the
Park Board and School Board, is sponsoring this
civic club where the boys and girls of Bismarck
have discovered that it can be fun to drink pop
and dance on a dime.

"Park-Schools"

(Continued from page 738)

Hickory logs with the common and botanical
names of each variety burned onto the face of the
logs are to be placed in these groupings, enabling
the youngsters to become familiar with these
plants. A pool and bog gardens complete this nat-
uralistic spot.

The athletic field, because of its naturalistic

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

3 St. Louis. Mo.

752 AN INDUSTRY ENCOURAGES HOBBYCRAFT

surroundings, should be mentioned. Mounds are

built to encircle the field and are being heavily -

planted to provide natural barriers. Facilities for
spectators were developed on the mounds similar
to those mentioned at the North School: i'.e.,

stone and timber were combined to create a small '

amphitheater.

Again, the smaller children’s apparatus area is
separated from the games area, and the resurfac-
ing of this apparatus area is noteworthy: tanbark
and asphalt were mixed to form a resilient yet
firm surface. This is an experiment that may help
solve the dangerous problem of play area surfac-
ing. The tennis courts and all connecting six foot
walks are asphalt with a sand finish.

The third and final phase, the largest of all, is
now under way. A combined elementary and
junior high school building is being'built on the
grounds where public subscription has already
erected a splendid community auditorium. When
completed, these buildings will be as one, sur-
rounded by ten acres of school and park property,
developed jointly by the Park Board and Board of
Education. This project is still in the planning
stage and the tentative plan as shown herewith is
an attempt to develop an ideal design for an ele—
mentary and junior high school building. We be-
lieve this project is of such scope as to warrant a
separate article at some future date.

In each instance, whenever school property has
not been adequate, the Park District has acquired
property adjacent to the school grounds and, in
the subsequent development, park and school
property lines have been ignored. Every consid-
eration has been given to the development of each
area in the attempt to make each a unit designed
to meet the recreational needs of the community
and to serve .the educational demands of the
school. The aesthetic and utilitarian have been
blended to the benefit of the entire community.

The assessed valuation of property adjacent to
our Park—Schools has actually increased, whereas

the tendency throughout the nation indicates a'

decrease of property values adjacent to schools.

A further step in community cooperation is now
being planned whereby all care and maintenance
of school grounds will be under the supervision of
the Superintendent of Parks, assuring better main-
tained and developed school grounds at a lower
cost to the schools.

An Industry Encourages
Hobbycraft

By J. EARL RUTHARDT

HE STATEMENT is frequently made that high

speed and mass production of almost every-
thing are resulting in a woeful neglect of things
made by hand. There are, however,'manufactur—
ing plants which are making it possible for their
employees to have the thrill which comes with
creative achievement. One of these is the Textile
Machine Works of Reading, Pennsylvania, the
country’s largest manufacturers of full-fashioned
knitting machines, which by encouraging hobby-
craft among its workers is contributing its bit to~
ward keeping the art alive as Well as furnishing
the means through which employees may indulge
their love for handcraft.

Some years ago the company created a separate
department, or workshop, where apprentices re-
ceived special training in various phases of the
machinist’s trade through voluntary attendance
after working hours and on Saturday mornings.
With materials and blueprints provided by the
company they made tools of their own choice val-
uable to them in their trade.

To add zest to the project the program was ex—
tended and the boys were encouraged to make
other articles such as lamps and ash trays. An
apprentice may make any article and as many as
he wishes, provided he can complete them in the
allotted time. He pays only for the actual mate-
rials used in construction. The management fur—
nishes the equipment, tools, original designs and
leadership for making the projects.

Each apprentice is permitted as much freedom
as he wishes in applying his own ingenuity to his
selected project. For example, one of the most
unique articles made recently was a lamp con-
structed from the required filing projects of ap-
prentice training. The filing requirements in—
cluded a cast iron cube, a square Hat piece of steel,
an elongated hexagonal piece of steel filed from a
round bar of steel. These pieces were' put to-
gether by one enterprising apprentice to make a
very attractive lamp of modernistic design.

The value of these articles does not lie in the
fact that they may be more beautiful than those
purchased but rather in the “hand—made” appeal.
In the light of actual experience in thonght—pro-
voking and manipulative skill the handcraft group
is highly important.

m—‘VM --—-~

A CAMPAIGN FOR CLEANLINESS IN PARKS 753

Not only do the company’s two hundred and
more apprentices participate in these handcraft
projects, but other workmen have also been ad-
mitted to the group.

Each year, a few weeks before Christmas, the
articles are exhibited in the Company’s main
machine shop. The boys’ families, relatives and
friends visit the exhibit to see what they have
made. In many cases father and “mother have a
prevue of their Christmas presents. An orchestra
composed of apprentices usually enlivens the oc-
casion with music. _

The list of articles made and exhibited by the
boys include many types of desk, bridge and floor
lamps; various holders, stands and vases; tele-
phone tables and stools, book ends, magazine racks,
andirons and other articles, all of excellent work-
manship. New projects this year were hand—ham-
mered pewter and copper ware, silver rings, brace-
lets, pins and necklaces.

That the Company’s plan is successful is evi- -

denced by the fact that each year finds the appren—
tices with a more varied group of articles and with
greater enthusiasm for individual projects.

A Campaign for Cleanliness in Parks
(Continued from page 728)
keep the parks clean. When a park workman

observes an infraction of the ordinance, he merely
hands the offender one of these “courtesy cards."
This maneuver rarely meets hostility. Usually
there is immediate and smiling compliance. In
rare instances there is an annoyed frown—but no-
body has the effrontery to drop the card except
into a waste container!

While the signs and courtesy cards were mak-
ing an impression, the newspapers and numerous
civic organizations helped publicize the movement
which widened to include all public property and
elicited widespread expressions of approbation.

Every one of the more than 3000 Park District
employees has been made conscious of responsi—
bility toward the campaign, and of his duty to
participate actively not only by setting a good
example of neatness but by giving thought to the
subject and making suggestions. As the result of
one foreman’s suggestion, large manufacturers of
candy, ice cream and chewing gum were asked to
print anti-litter slogans on wrappers. To date,
five companies of national reputation have agreed
to do so and are otherwise giving encouragement
to the movement.

Fifty thousand lapel buttons in green and white

Ever Wear  '

Playground Apparatus

Basketball Backstops

Swimming Pool Equipment
Write for Catalogs Today

EVERWEAR

Manufacturing Company
SPRINGFIELD. OHIO

 

Dept. R

 

A Notable Anniversary
' (Continued from page 724)

and others include physical examinations in their
routine. Dental service was provided more than
15,000 boys last year; and vocal groups, orches-
tras, brass and rhythm bands, fife, bugle and drum
corps, and harmonica groups attract boys musi-
cally inclined. During the summer more than two
hundred clubs conduct camps, attended last year
by 36,000 boys. Savings banks helped 5,000 boys
save their pennies to buy worth-while articles
rather than spend them in a street corner gambling
game. ,

All of these boys’ clubs are federated in an
organization known as the Boys’ Clubs of America,
Inc., with headquarters in New York City.

have been distributed to children through Park
District Field houses and the public and parochial
schools. Children receiving the buttons sign
pledges to wear them and to help keep public
property free from litter. All park employees also
are wearing the buttons, which have done much
to make the entire city aware of the demand for
neatness. Bulletins of a chatty nature keep the
employees posted on progress, giving them a
medium through which to offer suggestions and
comment.

Marked improvement in generalappearance of
the parks was evident almost "immediately after
the campaign began, especially in such areas as the
Grant Park band shell where night public concerts
were held from June Ist to Labor Day, and at
Soldier Field, in Burnham Park, scene of many
special events attracting thousands to the great
stadium.

Mr. Dunham has expressed gratification, but
also has warned that a city-wide habit of neatness
regarding use of public property cannot be achieved
except by long-term methods. He said:

“Chicagoans are quick to respond when any

754 TABLE TENNIS VERSUS PING-PONG

worthwhile public service is asked of them, but I
‘ think our best help in this work of keeping the
parks and other public grounds clean will come
from the schools. Children who join the Anti-
Litter clubs and enter into the spirit of this move-
ment will become adults to whom disposing of
trash properly will be instinctive. Their children,
in turn, will be reared in the tradition of cleanli-
ness and consideration of their fellow citizens.
Effective as it has been at the outset, the Anti-
Litter campaign is one in which we must take the
long view. The effort must extend over a period
of years until no Chicagoan would drop a piece
of waste paper on a public street or lawn any more
than he would drop it on a carpet in his own
home.”

Table Tennis Versus Ping-Pong
(Continued from page 720)
The geography of the gym is ideal inasmuch as
the front row of the stands is fully eight feet
from the floor giving an amphitheater effect. The
program calls for the following schedule.

Monday. The conduct of six league matches.

Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Town
championships in the following divisions: men’s
singles, boys’ singles, women’s singles, men’s
doubles, and mixed doubles.

Friday. Exhibition matches between Sandor
Glancz, former world’s doubles champion, and
Laszlo Bellak, four times runner-up for world’s
single title and United States singles champion in
1937 and 1938.

On the first four evenings of the week the six
tables are in constant use from 7 :30 to II :00 P. M.
On Friday night live tables are removed leaving
one in the center of the floor which is lighted by
four reflected electric lights. Most of the other
lights in the gym are turned off and this gives a
picturesque effect. Bellak and Glancz bring with
them two state champions and the four players
give such a demonstration of hard-running per-
fection that you turn to the five hundred specta-
tors and mutter, “ping—pong, eh?” When you go
home that night it is with the knowledge that you
no longer have to champion the game.

The season is finished but you know that prob-
lems face you in the future. Table tennis requires
plenty of “back space” and the ordinary cellar
doesn’t provide for that. You know that a roomy,
central location is essential. This will eliminate the
splendid social intercourse involved in the former
set-up but it may serve to introduce a more relax-

ing spirit of good fellowship. Of course you will
probably organize a league for cellar ping-pong.
You know as well as the next recreation worker
that ping—pong is to table tennis what auction
bridge is to contract, that all are types of whole-
some leisure-time activities and as such should be
fostered. On the list for future planning, the
organization of a women’s league is a “must,” and
a “husband-and-wife” league a possibility.

You furthermore feel that table tennis may not
be faring as favorably in other communities so
you write an article like this.

A Social Dance Club

(Continued from page 721)

spent the early part of the evening at places where
liquor is served.

The boys and girls are behavior-conscious and
are critical of those who do not act as ladies and
gentlemen. It is now possible to control the be-
havior problem by suspending a member’s card for
a period of time, or by canceling his membership.
The plan makes for a more enjoyable evening for
those attending and for those conducting the
dances. I

Belonging to the Dance Club has become a
privilege that very few of the members care to
have taken away.

The Frank H. Ball Playground

(Continued from page 703)

in the ball ground. Now and then she made a
helpful suggestion which was immediately put into
effect. One evening the citizens of Fresno picked
up their evening papers and were startled to read
of Mrs. Bessie Ball’s sudden death. Much of her
property was willed to various public and chari-
table organizations. At the head of the list, the
largest bequest of all, was $25,000 for Frank H.
Ball playground facilities, and particularly for a
swimming pool.

Soon after $5,000 of the bequest had been paid
in from the estate, a CWA project was set up,
and soon a fine swimming pool was completed.
Then SERA followed with a project which pro-
vided dressing rooms, shower house, and the over-
hauling of a building for administration purposes.
The swimming pool set-up is valued at about
$15,000. (The children say it is worth a million!)
A hard-surfaced tennis court was also constructed
about this time for the most part with CWA labor

and funds.

COMMUNITY YOUTH CENTERS IN MANITOBA, CANADA 755

When still more funds had come in from Mrs.
Ball's bequest, the pool and the softball grounds
were lighted for night use, as was the small chil—
dren’s corner.

Some $17,000 still remained in the fund. A
recreation building was wanted, but with this
amount no building could be constructed which
would meet the need. An all-purpose building,
to use in connection with the pool in summer and
for every other kind of recreation imaginable in
winter and summer, was required; nothing else
would sufiice. The rounded ceiling had to be clear
of obstacles for basketball, the lights and finish
had to be adaptable for parties, musicals and en—
tertainments as well as sports. The kitchen, the
handcraft room, the stage, the shower and the
basement must all be suitable for a multiplicity
of uses. The city engineers were given many a
headache but in the end a plan was drawn up.

Just then the NYA came along looking for a
project. But $17,000 was not enough even with
their help. However, the Rosenberg Foundation
came to the rescue with $7,000 and the building
was started. These funds ran out when the end
was in sight, but $3,000 more was donated by the
Rosenberg Foundation, and with small amounts
from other sources the building was finished. The
total cost was close to $50,000.

The interchangeable uses of both grounds and
building make this small block recreation area
useful the year round. The baseball field used for
children in the mornings during the summer, at
5 P. M. becomes the twilight league ball field for
young men. On the same day it may prove the
ideal setting for three night-lighted softball games
before bleachers filled with entire families of
every nationality. The same is true of the recrea-
tion building, where, during the day, handcraft,
quiet games, sewing classes, badminton, volley-
ball, parties, basketball and entertainments are en-
joyed in the morning and afternoon by children
or grownups; at night, three basketball games, par-
ticipated in perhaps by young men whose parents
came from six different countries, may be played.
The crowd that fills the bleachers may have origi-
nally come from the four corners of the earth.

Many more stories could be written about the
play opportunities provided under the leadership
of the Recreation Department of Fresno, Cali—
fornia, which has received fourteen gifts or be—
quests from interested citizens who have wanted
their possessions to count for the happiness of
others.

Community Youth Centers in
Manitoba, Canada

IN 1939 THE PROVINCE of Manitoba, Canada, in-

itiated twelve Community Youth Centers under
the Dominion-Provincial Youth Training plan.
Thirty selected young people were brought to
Winnipeg and given a five weeks’ course of train—
ing in physical education, public speaking, drama,
and handcrafts. These young people returned to
their communities and, with the help of experi-
enced workers, organized youth centers.

It soon became apparent that the success of the
project would depend on leadership, and in July,
1939, the Gimli Leadership Camp was established.
At this camp I 36 leaders were trained in 1939, and
these leaders became the nucleus around which the
centers for 1939-1940 were set up. During this
period fifty-four centers were in operation through-
out the province. In the summer of 1940 a second
session of the camp was held, with approximately
140 leaders in training.

The centers are administered under the Com-
mission for the Employment of Single 'Men and
Youth Training, and are operated directly under
the Department of Education. The local commu-
nity in which a center is established provides a
central committee, which usually has a subcom-
mittee for citizenship training. The local commit—
tee is responsible for the rent, light, and heat of
the building in which a center operates and for
raising funds for equipment. The committee as-
sists and supports the local leader who must meet
specified requirements before he can serve. The
Department of Education supplies supervisiOn,
pays the salary of the leaders, sets up courses,
provides source material for courses, and assists
with equipment cost.

The citizenship work at the centers includes in-
struction in public speaking and drama, as well as
talks on'citizenship subjects by local groups.

The youth center program was prefaced by a
study of the recreational activities and needs of
the city of Winnipeg primarily in relation to the
program for young men and women from sixteen
to thirty years of age. The report of findings has
been published by the Department of Education,
Winnipeg, Canada, under the title, “Survey of
Recreational Activities and Leisure-Time Use in
the City of Winnipeg, 1940.” The study was
directed by Emanuel Berlatsky.

 

 

Building and Flying Model Airplanes

An Air Youth Handbook. Published for Air Youth of
America. D. Appleton-Century Company, New York.

$2.00.

THIS BOOK, a companion piece of Model Airplane Con-
tests, describes in detail every step in both the build-
ing and Hying of model airplanes, and offers up—tO-date
material presented by experts with years of experience in
building and Hying model airplanes. A valuable feature
is the inclusion Of plans for the building of five models
developed by the Air Youth of America.

American Youth

An Enforced Reconnaissance

Edited by Thacher Winslow and Frank P. Davidson.
Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

$2.50.

HE EDITORS of this volume asked a number of leaders

in academic, professional, and public life to write
down what seem to them to 'be important co'nsiderations
in a review Of youth’s relation to society in the broadest
sense, for the problems of today’s young men and women,
as the editors point out, “constitute an index to the times.
and the courage with which we face them must serve as
a test of the survival power of our civilization.” Among
the contributors are Aubrey Williams and Mary Hayes
of the National Youth Administration, Kenneth Holland
of the American Youth Commission, George S. Pettee
and Robert Ulich of Harvard University, and Fritz M.
Marx of Queens College. Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt has

contributed the foreword.

Liability for School Accidents

A Manual for Educational Administrators and Teachers.
By Harry N. Rosenheld. Harper and Brothers, New

York. $2.00. _ _ .
WHILE THIS BOOK has been written to provide authori-

tative legal guidance which will protect educators
from needless worry concerning their responsibility for
the safety of students, it will also be helpful to recrea-
tion workers who face similar problems. Especially per-
tinent to the recreation profession is the chapter, “Gym-
nasium, Playground, and Athletic Activities.” Not only
does this guide explain legal implications of negligence
and cover the principles of liability, but it also discusses
Specific problems of school administration which will
tend to prevent scores of accidents that now occur.

Camp Fire Tonight!
By Richard James Hurley. The Peak Press, Ann Arbor,

Michigan. $1.00. .
HIS IS “a handbook and a how-boo ” of storytelling

methods and material intended for the individual who
likes to tell stories and wants tO tell better ones and tell

them more expertly. Written in popular style, it ‘is an
interesting book not only for the individual who would

tell stories, but for all who enjoy them. A comprehen—
sive bibliography is included.

756

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

"Good Morning"

By Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ford. Dearborn Publishing
Company, Dear-born, Michigan. $.50.

RECREATION WORKERS will welcome the revised edition
of “Good Morning,” the 'book Of music, calls, and di-
rections for old time dancing as revived by Mr. and Mrs.
Henry Ford and, arranged by Benjamin B. Lovett. Ma—
terial has brien drawn from authentic sources and this,
combined with Mr. Lovett’s many years of experience
and the effort he has made to preserve all that is charac-
teristic and traditional, will make the book invaluable at
a time when old American dances are Sweeping the coun-
try. More than forty dances are described with clear,
detailed directions, and music is given for each.

Model Boat Building

Edited by F. J. Camm. Chemical Publishing Company,
New York. $1.50.

THERE ARE 151 ILLUSTRATIONS and plans in this book
which covers the whole ground of constructional
methods. Designs are given for a model sloop, a schooner
yacht, a model of John Cabot’s ship and of a Tudor ship,
a petrol engine hydroplane, and other models.

The Youth of New York City

By Nettie Pauline McGill and Ellen Nathalie Matthews.
The Macmillan Company, New York. $3.50.

NEARLY 10,000 YOUNG PEOPLE in New York City be-
tween Sixteen and twenty-four years of age repre-
senting every race, color, creed, nationality and the ex-
tremes of wealth and destitution, were interviewed on
such questions as their family background, education,
recreation, employment, and social life. The results of
this study have "been analyzed in this book with special
reference tO employment. The study points out the great
need for additional recreation facilities and the oppor-
tunity for sports and play. “Youth needs an education
that takes leisure seriously,” states the report. “In a
changing world it needs schools that are leisure-conscious.
It needs an education that makes the wholehearted en-
joyment of ‘life one of its goals. Perhaps more than
anything else, youth needs to have kept 'before the com-
munity the fact that almost all wholesome and construc—
tive recreation is now out of reach of all except a few.”

Rhythm and Games

By Mrs. Fannie Steve. Wisconsin State Stations, Madi—
son, Wisconsin. $.10.

THE WISCONSIN STATE STATIONS have issued this book—
let on music and games which has been prepared by
Mrs. Steve to supplement her weekly broadcast for
primary grades of the Wisconsin School of the Air. Mrs.
Steve suggests that the games and tunes she has broad-
cast might be carried over into the gymnasium and play—
time periods. Most of the mUSiC was written by Mrs.
Steve herself.

q

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD 757

Your Health Dramatized.

By Dr. W. W. Bauer and Leslie Edgley. E. P. Dut-
ton and Co., New York City. $2.25.

Thirty-two selected health plays adapted from the
scripts of the Radio Health Dramatizations broadcasts
during 1937-38 by the American Medical Association
and the National Broadcasting Company especially for
senior and junior high schools. They meet the need for
short classroom or assembly prOgrams. May be used as
actual or simulated broadcasts, as stage plays, informal
classroom plays, or dramatic readings. They cover a
variety of health subjects. Some Of the titles are Play-
ing for Fun, Seeing and Hearing Well, It Takes All
Good Foods, Sneezes and Sniffies, The Health Check-
Up, Vacation Plays and Misplays, etc.

Wild Life Development of Recreational Lakes.

National Park Service, Washington. D. C.

A recent bulletin published by the National Park Ser-
vice is concerned mainly with the development of new
artificial lakes. It also contains suggestions which are
applicable to existing natural or artificial lakes. The bul-
letin points out that since local conditions vary widely,
wild life deveIOpment must be shaped to meet these con-
ditions. General principles are accordingly indicated
rather than specific treatment. Park and recreation au-
thorities who are responsible for the development of
water areas will find many practical suggestions in the
bulletin.

The Merry Skibook.

Franziska. Transatlantic Arts, New York. $1.90.

Don’t make the mistake of turning to this book for
information on the techniques of skiing. There are plenty
of books on this subject. In the pages of this delightful
collection of caricatures—and they are in color—you will
recognize some of your friends who never miss the ski
train. “The book is made like an accordion, and from
its folds one almost hears the gay yodel of ski folk in the
mountains.”

All who ski or who have watched the antics of friends
will find this a most intriguing and novel book.

The Play’s the Thing. How to
Appreciate and Enjoy the Drama.

By Joseph Mersand, Ph. D. Number Five. The
Modern Drama Chapbooks, New York. $.25.

Dr. Mersand, instructor in English, Boys’ High School,
Brooklyn, New York, gives us in this book three essays
on the art of enjoying the drama: “The Meaning of the
Appreciation of Drama”; “How to Know the Best
Plays”; and “What Makes Great Dramas Great.” They
are all three helpful aids to an appreciation of drama.

Stories for Parents.

By Jean Schick Grossman. Summer Play Schools
Association, 1841 Broadway, New York. $.05 each;
series of four, $.10.

In 1938 the Summer Play Schools Committee of the
Child Study Association issued a series of attractive
pamphlets which discussed some of the problems which
arise in child training. The Committee, now known as
the Summer Play Schools Association, now offers a new
series having to do with Learning to Use Money; Keep-
ing Healthy; No Two Children Are Alike; and Chil-
dren’s Quarrels. The general plan followed in all the
pamphlets is to state the situation, present a number of
questions which the particular problem presents, and offer
suggestions under the heading “Some Things to Think
About.” The leafiets are all attractively illustrated.

Where Did Your Garden Grow?

By Jannette May Lucas. J. B. Lippincott Company,
Philadelphia. $2.00.

Sometimes we say that the wind blows from the four

corners of the globe. The wind blowing over a garden
does, for often the flowers in one bed come from all
parts of the world. In this unusually attractive book the
author tells of the travels of a number of flowers-
tulips, lilies, daffodils, zinnias, and many others—from
China, Persia. Turkey, Africa, South America, and other
countries. There are beautiful colored maps and draw-
ings by Helene Carter illustrating their original habitat
and their travels. This is a charming book for Hower
overs.

Louisiana French Folk Songs.

By Irene Therese Whitfield. Louisiana State Uni-
versity Press, University, Louisiana. $3.00.

In this book Miss Whitfield has made a contribution to
the folk lore of America. The words are given in the
patois Of Creole French, a mixture of Old French and
English, with bits of other languages thrown in for good
measure. The melody and symbols are given in phonetic
alphabet. In addition to the folk songs, the author has
included a few songs which are not strictly folk songs
but which have been sung, hummed, or whistled so long
a time that they have developed variations in words and
melody. An interesting feature Of the collection is the
discussion presented before each group of songs of the
characteristic as demonstrated 'by the members of that
group.

 

 

Oflicers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

JOHN G. WINANr, First Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Second Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Third Vice-Presitlenl
GUSTAVUS T. Kinny, Treasurer

IlowAln BnAucuI-zn, Secretary

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, l'a.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, I). (2.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMuEn, Jacksonville, l-‘I..
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I.. N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HAREOWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
Mus. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hicxox, Michigan City, lml.
MRS. MINA M. EDISON HUGHES, West Orange, N ,I.
NIRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRDY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

Or'ro T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARI. E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco. Calif.
MRS. JAuEs W. WADSWORTH, Washinglon. I) (I.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARDURG, New York, N. Y.
JonN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLIY WOODWARD. Washington. II. C.

