On Keeping Emotional Stability
and Sanity

ROBABLY the most diflicult and the most needed job that we have
P to do in all this talk and preparation for defense is defense of
the spirit and morale of our children and our homes—an everlasting
alertness to leave nothing undone that will contribute to emotional
stability and sanity.

Good nutrition, sound health, decent housing, sanitation and
hygiene are an essential foundation. But ask any psychiatrist, any
juvenile or domestic relations court judge, and he will tell you that
spirit, morale, emotional stability are best built by recreation—by
wholesome fun.

Those of us in and interested in the recreation movement have
known this for decades. It was demonstrated in the last war. Today,
the Army, the Navy, the Federal Security Agency recognize the vital
relationship between morale and recreation. Of course, it should be
remembered that morale building is a by-product to the main objec-
tive of recreation—the adding of tang and zest, of richness and color

‘to life through sheer, unalloyed fun. In short, through recreation.

The heart that holds laughter, the eye and the ear that can
discern, and the hand that can create beauty fortify an unconquerable
soul. That’s morale. Isn’t it? There’s the first challenge to the
National Recreation Association and to every one of us, professional
and lay, behind the recreation movement. Isn’t this true?

And in the doing, one of the rich things we should get out of
this preparation for defense is a new, real democracy of spirit, a
fresh sense of the intrinsic worthwhileness of each individual, and
a sense of interdependence and cooperation for a unified approach to
this whole job.

JOHN W. FAUST

 

AUGUST I94!

 

285

 

 

Courtesy National Cash Register C "pa

 

Robin Hood and the Gang

" EAH, FREEDOM, you
Y know—time to do

what I wanted when
I wanted.”

The statement came
from a seventeen-year—old Sher-
wood Forest Camper as he sat
opposite me in my office, at -
summer’s end, telling me what
he had liked most about camp.

“Why, say,” he was adding,
“this has been the first time I can remember when
older people weren’t telling me from morning to
night what I should do.” '

‘ Small wonder he had been so impressed. Hail—
ing from one of the heavily congested city areas,
he was a boy who attended community centers,
was the power or “brains” behind the group to
which he belonged, and had come to camp with his
gang fully expecting to dominate the athletic pro—
gram, as well as the other campers and counseling
staff. And, truthfully, we were not sure for three
days who was running the camp! We all felt that

we were facing our first de-
feat in three years of operat—
ing a democratic, cooperative
venture, for three
days lost out of the
fourteen days’ en-
campment for the
session seemed an
insurmountable set—
back. Usually ad—
justments have to
take place much
earlier in the five
two-week periods
of changing camper
groups, in order to
achieve results.
Personally I was
pleased that mem—
bers of our board
of directors were not
present to see and
to hear the first
baseball game the
day camp opened—
a game between this

The story of the “gang's” invasion
of Sherwood Forest Camp and its
voluntary capitulation to Robin Hood

By A. H. WYMAN

Executive Director

Park and Recreation Association
St. LouisI Missouri

Panel depicting an episode from the
life of Robin Hood which was painted
on burlap by Sherwood Forest boys

 

gang, who lived in Lock-
sley Chase Village, and
their opponents from
Nottingham Village.

The contest began in
an atmosphere much favorable
to one side. “We’ll shellack ya!”
the gang members shouted in-
cessantly at the other team.
“Look at him swing, the sissy!”
they cried, or “Oh, you bad boy,
trying to steal a base. Careful, ormama’ll spank.”

The gang’s opponents took the mockery as best
they could and the game went on, albeit noisily.
Then the crisis: the umpire called our young gang-
leader friend “out” on strike. He protested, and,
nothing loathe, his comrades also protested. Taunts
to the contrary, the boys on the other team were
no “sissies” ; when the gang members threatened
physical violence they quickly retaliated in kind,
and it took a concerted staff effort to stop the pro—
fanity and violence that rapidly filled the air.

We were frank to admit that we were dis-
couraged, for the entire camp
had been upset. Our pessimism
increased when we later en-
countered further
violations by the
“gang,” all due to
their conviction that
“there was a catch
somewhere” in
every conciliatory
step that we took.

Basic Camp
Policies

To understand
how we finally solv-
ed the problem ——
and solve it we did
—it is perhaps es—
sential first to un-
derstand the basic
policies by which
Sherwood Forest
Camp is operated.
Life there is predi-
cated upon four
primary ideas:

287

288 ROBIN HOOD AND THE GANG

1. Children go to camp to have fun.

2. A camp to be effective must be built around
personalities.

3. The camp program must make camping an en—
joyable experience in the minds of the
children.

4. Camper and staff must share alike in the for-
mation of that program.

The keynote at Sherwood Forest is, and has
been since the beginning, democracy in action,
pointing youngsters toward the American way of
living. To sound this keynote and make effective
the four basic policies, two things were necessary:

a favorable camp site and a camp staff geared to
adventure and '

creativeness in
in a woodsy at—
mosphere, able
t o k e e p t h e
c a m p f a m il y

happy and
active.

The staff we
a c q u i r e d
through careful
selection and
thorough~ going
volunteer train-
ing. The site we
were fortunate
enough to se-
cure through
the cooperation
of National
Park Service.
With that ser-
vice we planned
and built, laying out facilities
best suited to the type of
democratic—cooperative camp we wished to achieve.

Democratic cooperation in daily camp activity
we strove to insure through a well-defined form
of self-government for the four villages into
which the camp was divided. With each village
housing thirty campers, three counselors and a
village director, we set up the machinery whereby
each group of thirty campers separated itself 'into
three clubs and together elected a mayor for its
village.

Each of the twelve resultant clubs elected their
president, vice-president, secretary and program
chairman, and a representative to serve on the
Village Council. Still another body, and the only

..‘ \n‘.

éJQJ§igr . .‘f‘o ' ,. v

'5‘ ,,

. V‘ .I ‘.I.’??* II;

' I;
light .

posed of the village mayors, the club representa-

 

These girl counselors are being given in-
struction by a national archery champion

judicial one in camp, was the camp Senate cornwi
tive and the village directors. .
All clubs held daily meetings, kept minutes, an-
ticipated activities, expressed opinions, found
fault, and charged their village representative
with the responsibility of passing on to the cam
Senate their wishes and desires.
The club meetings had lived up to expectations.
The reading of club minutes were as revealing to
the camp management as were the statements
written home on postal cards by the campers—andi
these were revelations indeed! How many mis-i
understandings were changed, how much misin-
formation and

' misinterpreta~
tion of camp ac-
tivities checked
before harm.
was done, w
Shall never b
able to estimate
At any rate,
this was ou
democracy ii
a ct i o n , o u r.
chief weapon
in coping with
the problem of
the gang.

Robin Hood to'
the Rescue! 1

O u r f i r s t
move following
the opening
game disturb-
ance was temporarily to sus-
pend all competition between
the fOUI‘ villages and hurriedly to put into motion
the democratic—cooperative governmental proce-
dure. The gang had made short shrift of its own
village election, of course; no spirited campaign
there, with everything made favorable for the
gang leader. But elections elsewhere in the camp
had gone well, and it was in group discussion and
consideration that we proceeded to place all our
hope of overcoming the aftermath of the upset-
ting, opening day’s short-circuit.

To each leader of a club we gave a detailed
description of what had taken place and what he
should look for and guard against in the future.

(Continued on page 345)

 

Camp—a Final Appraisal

softies. I want my boy

to feel the spiritual
release that comes from
work well' done. Work is
a mixture of choice and
discipline—self—disci-
pline, to the free man. I
want no pampering house-
maids making his bed or waiting on table. I want
him to learn to make a bed in camp or in the open,
to build a fire, to cook a meal, to care for a horse,
to plant a tree, to stop erosion, to build a shelter,
to carry a pack, to portage a canoe, to climb a
mountain. “Oh, to struggle against great odds—
to see how much you can stand.”

I want no city hotel in the mountains. I want
my boy to get away from electric lights so he can
see a blue sky. I want him to get away from
automobile horns and gas fumes and doting par—
ents who send him cake every other day and come
in to hold his hand on Sunday.

I WANT no camp for

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

A Middle Road

I care more about whom he goes with than
where he goes. At his age there are flood tides. I
want them to be caught at their height by men
who believe in the sacredness of life, not narrow
experts in weaving belts, in baseball or in nature
lore. There will be teachable moments on rainy
days and starlit inights when I want some man to
pat him on the back and say “Well done,” or
“Next time a little better.” Such leaders are rare.

I want him safe from unnecesss'ary hazards. He
should be protected from unguarded swimming
pools, disease-carrying food handlers and poorly
refrigerated foods. But I don’t want him pam-
pered. I’d rather see a broken akle than a broken
spirit. I want some courage—
Amelia Earhart’s courage.
“Courage is the price that
life extracts for granting
peace. The soul that knows it

not knows no release from
little things.”

Why? What? How?

I want no camp gone wild
over competition. I want

What to expect from a summer's so-
iourn at camp—a set of standards

‘By JAY B. NASH, Ph.D.

Professor of Education
New York University

In a series of atticles on Camps which ap-
peared on the School Page of the New
- York San, Dr. Nash described different

types of camps and discussed some of
the qualities which a good camp may be
expected to develop in boys and girls.
In the final article in the May |7th issue
he submitted a summary which is re-
printed in Recreation by courtesy of

the author and of the New York San.

enough routine for good
organization and disci-
pline and order, but I
want my boy to have
some time in which to
putter—in search of “the
usefulness of useless

knowledge.”

I want the camp to stir
the eternal “Why?” When he comes home I want
to hear: “Dad, at the Museum of Natural History
there is Let’s go. It’s warbler time in Con-
necticut—get the car. Who did take the nip out of
the dogwood? What is a cloud? How does the
“feather Bureau know it is going to rain tomor-
row?” Why? Why? What? I except to be
miserable with these questions, but I shall be in-
wardly glad.

I want him to feel democracy. I want my boy
to recognize his rights—inalienable rights—but to
see that every other soul on earth also has rights.
I want him to see that law is essential for the
good of all, and as there are rules in camp—self-
approved rules—some day there will be laws gov-
erning nations—self—approved laws. I want him
to speed that day.

I want a camp with a spiritual touch. I mean a
camp that puts emphasis on qualitative things——
beauty in surroundings, eternal truth and sincerity
in human relationships. I want no sour skeptics,
even though they be experts, about my boy at
sunset. .

I want a happy camp. The prophet of old en-
visioned the eternal city as a place “within the
walls of which he heard the laughter of little
children.” Not hilarity, not “rough-housing,” but
the joy that comes from discovery in your own

right to service to others.
i Shall I send my boy back

a second summer? Yes, if he
comes home brown, healthy,
calm, confident and eager. If
he is a little more willing to
help about the home, a little
more responsible, a little more
respectful, a little more tol-
erant, a little more able to

(Continued on page 341)
289

 

Suppose We Go Camping—All of Us!

What About Summer Camps?

By KATHERINE MILLER

Camp Lookout
Golden. Colorado

ITUATED IN THE Rocky Mountains, not so dis-
8 tantly removed from the city as to have an

Alpine setting, but well hidden and quiet
among the tall yellow pines, is a camp for girls
from twelve to eighteen years of age. There
Nature has kept her wild way among the hills and
valleys. Trails are padded with pine needles, and
pine cones lie thick beneath the trees. Wild How-
ers bloom freely. Squirrels, chipmunks, birds, and
other creatures of the woods live unmolested.
Through the clearing of trees, between foothills
and mountains can be seen the snow-capped peaks
of the distant range. In the seclusion of the trees
stand the buildings of the camp.

Here, during the summer months, campers move
happily and busily in a common democracy. No-
body calls it progressive education or a community
living project. Probably more than the use of
particular terms is the informal talking about
sharing together and making life more comfort—
able for all. It is, however,.organized living. The
girls have their own council. Together with the
director they find the answers to problems and
plan the kind of entertainment they wish.

The camp offers the usual recreation activities—
sports, music, dramatics, crafts, horseback riding,
swimming, dancing, and hiking. There is no set
program of activity for the day. Campers choose
to do these activities when they wish. If a camper
decides to lie on her bed and read a book all day,
it is her own affair, but too many things lure her
away from spending the whole
day in such a way. Participa-
tion to some degree in all ac-
tivities is the record of nearly
every girl. There are no re-
wards held out for activities
or accomplishments. There is
no routine of inspection by
leaders about cleanliness and
neatness. There is an under-

290

In giving us a picture of the camp at
which she served as counselor, Miss Mil-
ler describes it in some detail not, as
she points out, because it is worthy of
singular attention, but because it "exem-
plities a significant working example in
the movement toward the goal of youth
education in America." And because of
the place camps have in our national pro-
gram of youth education this is important.

   
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
    
   
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
  

standing about these things and they are take
care of because it is the thing to do. It is part 0
the feeling about living there, or, let us say, pa
of the atmosphere of camp.

I can think of no place where persons adjust t
this thing we call atmosphere so quickly as at
camp. More than one girl comes to camp with t
attitude that leaders will have to make her
things and that she will break rules, but she fin
no rules to break. Very soon, in the face of
freedom where all live in the realm of sharing wi
others, she Ends herself sharing in the comm
life. The campers seem to enjoy a sense of
longing to this place. They plan their activit
they live it, they have fun, and plan for more.

It is in this atmosphere that creativeness a
originality run high. A thing well planned a
carried out brings success; it sets a level of
tainment ; it stimulates striving toward even bett
goals for the next effort, and so it goes. Them
of entertainment evolve from interests of t
campers, or interests of moment. The “cut and
dried” program has no place in a camp such as th' .

Because of the very nature of camp, living f&
the good of fellow individuals and common inte
ests comes easier. There is something about livi
close to the openness of nature that leads to
broader thinking and ‘a greater tolerance of other .
It may be that in this quieter place there is
relief from all the distracting forces and tensions
that family, town, and city life bring.
people at camp have a greater opportunity to @-
ve10p line attitudes toward living with others, a
appreciations which help to make life richer. l

At this camp I have heard girls sing songs the
are good music again and again, day after day
because they were songs they enjoyed and thci
beauty grew with each singing. They will alwa'y.
remember those songs as
good. They could have sun
the ditty of the “slap—stick’
song. They would accep
them and enjoy them £0
a while, but the day woul
soon come when those song
no longer had appeal. The;
would not want to sin
them.

.5.
._a
3':
U)
D

Camping has come
a long way. It has
now become a part

of American life.
It is an art with
a real philosophy
and technique.

 

I saw girls prefer good
drama to the comedy
stunt. I saw campers sit
among the tall pines at
worship, or stand on the
.crest of a hill at sunset
l. participating in a spirit
of reverence. Somehow
the reverence we feel
while sitting among tall,

straight trees which have stood half a century or
more, or surrounded by high mountains which are
symbols of ages, or the reverence we feel as we
look to distant peaks covered with perpetual snow
is a kind of a reverence real within us all.

The standard of values set by a camp through
its music, art, drama, discussion, government, and
fair play sets the tempo of camp living. It isn’t
just luck when campers come together from dif-
ferent worlds and live harmoniously twenty—four
hours a day in a spirit of democratic sharing with
others; when they leave prejudice behind and join
together in rollicking fun; when they work seri-
ously together to reach the higher attainments for
camp life; and when they meet difficulty in an
understanding way, and can substitute humor for
disappointment. But these things do happen at
camp. They are the things that make us believe
. in people. They are things that make us have
' faith in the “American Dream.”

' W' e must not fail to recognize the organization

that has set the stage for such activity, but that is
another story not planned over night. It is the
organization that must be ever present but unob—
trusive. Fortunate is the camp with a director
who has a real and working knowledge of the
camp program, a genuine belief in a democratic
living, and who is a tolerant individual with that in-
dispensable quality of leadership and individuality.

Camping is the business of camps. It has a lore
intrinsically its own. Those of you who have been
to camp recognize this fact. A splendid program
carried on at camp with camp—centered interests

SUPPOSE WE GO CAMPING—ALL OF US! 291

 

Photo by Reynold Carlson

may fall flat at a home gathering or in a club
group. The stories and talks which so captivated
and entertained you at an evening camp hre fail to
have the same appeal inside four walls. A pair of
pine cone candleholders you proudly made in the
crafts class may look like fit material for the attic
at home, all because these things belong to camp.
They cannot be transferred from their setting with
the same meaning. '

There are, however, things you do take from
camp. It may be a feeling of joy at experiencing
for yourself for the first time dawn in the wilds,
a moonlight ride in the wilds, or it may be the
pride in the achievement of some new skill. It may
mean a deeper appreciation for the things in nature
or in people that will make it possible for you to
have a richer life. It may be a sense of respect for
others and for yourself because of the part you
have had in carrying out a more complete living
for all. It may be that you have some new under-
standings that make life more meaningful than it
was before. '

These are the things that belong to you and be-
come a part of your personality.

The Lure of Camping
‘ By MARGARET S. SANDFORD

HE CALL of the open road is a familiar slogan
that most of us respond to these days with our
cars. But once in Nature’s \Vonderland, how many

292 SUPPOSE WE GO CAMPING—ALL OF US!

rush past with a glance and how
many linger to really live in the
great out of doors?

Camping, to the uninitiated,
savors of bugs, dirt and discom-
fort, not to mention difficult
housekeeping without modern
conveniences. But there are thousands of people
who have found rest, peace, and pure joy in a
carefree existence offered in camp without these
drawbacks. They have felt the thrill of trees be-
side them as they do the “housework,” and have
had a changing sunset glorify the evening “dishes.”

Most children love the out of doors and want to
see how Nature carries on her work. Parents who
never take their children out to woods, lakes,
mountains or sea are depriving them of necessary
education. If you can afford to spend your vaca-
tion in some comfortable resort amid scenic sur-
roundings, well and good. But if there are several
children it is often too much for the family
budget. Then give camping a trial.

Of course the “de luxe” way to camp is with
house trailer, that miniature home on wheels with
many conveniences. But with much less invest-
ment camping can be carried on with various out-
fits. If you are not sure of the success of such a
venture, beg, borrow, or rent what you need be-
fore buying equipment. It is a good idea, in any
case, as you discover the type of thing best suited
to your own needs. Almost any family with a car
and a few days at its disposal can have a wonder-
ful vacation at practically no cost. Our country is
full of national and state parks Where space is
provided with tables, stoves and sanitary conveni-
ences." Here, amid beautiful scenery, campers set-
tle down for days or weeks with little or no rent
to pay. Such camps are so supervised that mos-
quitoes and other pests are at a minimum. (The
author spent seven weeks camping in nine western
states and paid out a total of seventy-five cents in
camp fees.)

Children are not requisites for a camping trip.
Many couples go alone for the joy of the outdoors
and the solitude, free from modern noise and in-
terruption. Some of the most fastidious house-
keepers can camp and enjoy the same clean orderly
routine that they have at home in a more simple
form._ Two or more women are often found alone
in camps, as there is a security in the wilderness
not found in crowded communities. Those who
seek Nature include the best type of American,
often most interesting and educated people who

"Give camp life a trial and you
will return to home duties with
memories of lovely scenery.
new friends and experiences
shared with them. and renewed
strength of mind and body."

  
  
   
   

have traveled and known other
forms of vacation.

What Shall We Take?

The problem of equipment mus
first be considered. Some sort 0
tent is necessary for dressing an
for use in case of rain. A lantern is desirab
unless you feel you can get along with tirelight an
flashlights. The new small lanterns are effncien
and not expensive. Beds are a matter of choice I
Sleeping bags are comfortable and easy to handle
Rolls of old quilts and blankets spread on the H00.
of the tent or ground can be tried, if folding
springs are not available. For little children,
sleeping bags can be made at home of old quilts
covered outside with canvas. Cretonne or dark
covers for pillows not only keep them clean bit-
make them ready for daytime use.

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

The only other large item is a stove. Most pe -
ple use a gasoline one as an auxiliary to the cam
stove or open fire. In many places the gasoli
stove is not really necessary as substantial stov
are quite general in camp sites. Gasoline burner'e

are quicker and cooler for midday use. ,
I

Now for the tools that make for camp comfort.
The first thing to unpack is oilcloth covers for this
tables. The.making of camp gadgets is part of
the fun. Let the children hunt discarded boxes
and try their talents on camp furnishings. Sets of
dishes or cooking utensils made for the purpose
are fine, but not necessary if it means too much
added expense. In our outfit no two pieces lit to-
gether or match. We make it up from what we
have around the house. Enamel plates are more
pleasant to eat from than tin or paper and are
not breakable. Be sure to have a few of your
favorite kitchen gadgets, but only the necessities.
These details of housekeeping must be worked
out by each woman herself as in her 0Wn home.
Clean pails for water are in constant use, although
camps have it piped so it is never far to carry. A
small wash tub is a joy to heat water on the stove
for dishes or laundry. And laundry is not a bad
chore if a little is done each day. One mother,
who does her own laundry at home and so wants
a rest while camping, tells her children that if they
can’t get along with the clothes they have for the
two weeks they can wash for themselves w
they like.

3"
G
p.)
(“D
<
(D
v—g

There are as many types of coolers as campers
As a rule, all are homemade, and they are quit

SUPPOSE WE GO CAMPING—ALL OF US! 293

   
   

ecessary to keep food away from fiies and from line rider or the camp secretary and editor of the
forest neighbors such as deer and chipmunks. camp newspaper, the brand inspector, the sheriff,
Large heavy bags for children’s clothes are and the camp yodeler. The entire group selected

ea51er to stow away than suitcases. If each child a name, brand, and song for the camp. Following
has his own, much trouble is avoided. this organization of the camp the delegates are
The question arises as to how to take all this divided into small groups of ranchers.
camp material. If there are several to ride in a From 5:00 until chuck time these small groups
ar it is a real problem. The best way is to have a had their general organization round-up. Each
small commercial trailer which is not difficult to _ group selected a foreman, a tenderfoot, a mem-
pull. It need not be large or fancy; a small sec- ber of the sheriff’s posse, its own yodeler, and a
ondhand one will do the work quite as well. , chuck line rider to serve as a reporter for the camp

newspaper. Each individual ranch then chose a
name, brand, and song.

" ” Following this came brandin’ time, the most

A COWPOke camp exciting time on any ranch. Every delegate to the

By G. R. HATCH camp was branded with two brands, one the brand

of the entire group, and the other the ranch brand

I HE MAJORITY of our New Mexico camps aver- of the individual group to which he belonged. A
Tage around a hundred in attendance, and the red hot indelible pencil was used for this brand-
fact that the number is so small makes it possible ing, and if at any time during the camp the dele-
to conduct interesting and gate was found without his
unique programs. brand, it was the duty of the

- - In this article Mr. Hatch Extension -
a th 0 ' I b t t h
Dunn“ e 194 campmg Club Specialist. Extension Service of rand mSpeC or O mpe t 6

season, 2,500 bowlegged cow- Hie New Mexico College of Agricunure' violator. and, if necessary,
punchers and pretty cowgirls gives a brief day_by_day accoum of a flank him to brand hlm. It

i enjoyed one of the most west- camp program which has a decidely was not uncommon to find a
ern camp programs ever pre- western "flavor." . Anyone wishing to 4-H Club member with lazy
sented by 4-H Club members. have the Pr°9ram "1 dela'l may secure "‘ “H” or walking “W” on his

The theme for all the camps by sendmg a reques’ ’0 ’he Ex’ension forehead, and perhaps an “H

. S ° . St t C II . N M ' . ,
W35, “Lead ’em. don’t I'lde ew’ce a e 0 age e’” ex’co bar 2” on the back of 1118
’em,” and the program which hand.

‘ is described below demonstrates how it was done. After all of this necessary preliminary organi-
_ . -‘ ' zation on the first afternoon, chuck time finally
I _ On the First Day rolled around, and all the cowboys and cowgirls

On the first afternoon of camp, immediately line up by individual ranches. Before each meal

‘ after everyone had arrived, came the first item on the “Grace Song” was sung, and during each meal
the program—the recordin’ of the brand. This different ranch groups were called upon to sing
was the registration of the campers. Following songs and to take part in the stunts. Just at sun-
the hour given over to this activity came a short down the flag lowering ceremony was conducted

' period for the stakin’ of the hosses, and spreadin’ by the straw boss and this service was followed
the bed rolls. This meant pitching the tents and on the firstevening by a camp fire program. A
arranging the sleeping quarters. very impressive camp fire lighting ceremony was

. For the few who had come to camp early equip- used with all of the cowpunchers sitting cross-
. ment games had been set up including'yard base- legged around the fire singing western songs. An

ball, box hockey, box foOtball, and devil-among- important part of the camp program was taken
=- the-tailors, - care of around the fire on this first evening in the
’. From 4:30 to 5 :00 .on the first afternoon, the reading of the camp'rules and the explanation of
' first general round-up or assembly for the entire camp objectives by the ranch officers. The first

group was held. The camp was organized on a evening’s movie program*was followed by early

ranch basis with the“ delegates selecting their ranch retiring. v '

boss, who then "became the head of the camp. . The Second Day’s Program

The first assistant or boss’ right-hand man is the u-Early on the second morning, about 6 o’clock,

straw boss. Other officers elected were. the chuck most of the ranch hands were out limberings 'up

294 SUPPOSE WE GO CAMPING«——ALL OF US!

before breakfast by playing a
few active games and run-
ning relays. The Hag-raising
ceremony, a feature of the
early morning program,
always gave the campers an
opportunity for some good
group training early in the
morning.

To start off the morning
program on the second day,
each of the individual ranch groups met together
and introduced their officers, sang their songs, and
gave their yells. Group conferences took up most
of the morning session, with the second day’s
meetings which included copper work for the boys
and corn bead work for the girls, reading of cat-
tle brands for both boys and girls, and a test of
their knowledge of social usages. Just before lunch
a short free period for playing equipment games
was enjoyed by all the cowhands.

From I :00 to I :30, after chuck had been served,
there was a short quiet period followed by a period
during which the club members could select one of
several different activities in which to take part.
For example, many of them played the equipment
games, which were out for their use at all times,
while others attended a conference on folk danc-
ing and square dancing. From 3 :00 to 5:00 P. M.,
sports such as softball, volleyball, and horseshoes
were enjoyed. The evening meal on the second
day was a weiner roast with each of the ranch
groups eating around its own camp fire, singing
cowboy songs and telling “tall” tales. This was
followed by a flag-lowering ceremony and vesper
services. The evening program included movies,
a storytelling program, and usually a short period
for dancing.

Then Came the Third Day

On the third day, the before-breakfast exercise
was a point-to-point hike which proved to be a lot
of fun. Group conferences on this day included
nature study, making pine needle baskets, -~and
group discussions. The afternoon. was more or
less free, with all sorts of games and another
period of dancing and several sports.

On the last evening of camp, the county 4-H
drama contest furnished the major portion of the
entertainment, with every club in the county pre—
senting a one-act play in competition in the con-
test. We wound up the third day of camp, just
before taps sounded, with a very impressive clos—

I'Challenged by dictators, America now
realizes that its youth must understand
and appreciate the democratic way of
life. At the same time the moral and
physical fiber of youth must be tough-
ened and made more sinewy if we are to
withstand the onslaught of totalitarian
forces. The work shop is an important
and vital means by which we can increase
the stamina of our democracy."—From

Work Camps for High School Youth.

   

ing camp fire program an
candle lighting cereinon
which was enjoyed by all.

The Final " Day Arrives

Bright and early on th
fourth day, another progra
of active games was put on
to start the delegates off right

. 1
and the morning was devoted

to a two or three hour nature
hike. The cowpokes were fortunate in that everjl

one of their camps had a very interesting place to
visit during each of their hikes. For example, one

group, after a hike of about a mile, visited

“the camp of an old gold miner who had been min-

ing gold far up in the mountains.

After the ranch hands returned from their
morning hike, the camp newspaper was ready for
distribution. For about an hour no one enjoyed
any peace of mind because of the autograph hun-
ters who were in camp. The last day’s program
ended with a picnic lunch in order that the camp-
ers might get off for home as soon as possible.

For the past several years in New Mexico, novel
camp programs such as the one described have
been arranged for the 4-H Club members. Plans
for the 1941 camp involve the aims of a democra—

tic type of government with the camp organized
as a typical city.

 
  
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Labor, Learning, and Leisure
By CHESTER L. LARKINS

THE WORK CAMP MOVEMENT, which originated
in Europe, is a new venture in this country.
In 1933, the United States established the Civilian
Conservation Corps, and it has continued to de-
velop and expand as a government agency. The
American Friends Service Committee has for the
last few years successfully operated camps in
various parts of the United States. Another de-
velopment has been “Work Camps for America,”
whose name has been changed to “Work Camps
of International Student Service.” Their first
camp in the summer of 1939, was located at West
Park, New York, on the Hudson River near
Poughkeepsie. Sixty young men and women from
all parts of the country spent four weeks of work
camp life working, studying and living together.
The seed sprouted and in the summer of I94
camp had grown to three.

0
O
:3
a

SUPPOSE WE GO CAZl/IPING—m—ALL OF US! 295

The purpose behind the
movement was to bring to-
gether young people from all
walks of life who wished to
give service to 'others and at
the same time, through work,
study, play and living to—
gether, renew their faith in
the democracy of America.

A picture of what happened at the Greens Farms

‘ \Vork Camp at \Vestport, Connecticut, follows:

Location and Surroundings

Greens Farms is a small community made up of

small truck farmers with a few large estates scat-

‘ tered about. The country is known for its beauti—

. ful rolling hills and stone fences, which were a

part of the folklore of its early inhabitants. Some

nine miles away is the industrial city of Bridgeport.

The Greens Farms Camp is owned and operated

by the Goddard Neighborhood Center, a settle-

ment house in New York City. Each summer for

the past forty years children from midtown east

l side have waited for their turn to go to camp—

I the camp they call their second home. The build-

l ings had become run down, the woods were a

I tangled bit of shrubbery, and among the trees

poison ivy was rampant. The condition of the

, camp provided many work projects for the new
ambitious group of campers.

Who Were the Campers?
The campers were selected boys and girls from
- various races, nationalities, religions, economic and

educational backgrounds.
The age range was from
17 to 25 years. They
were chosen from col-
leges throughout the
country, from the

 

 

Laying the cornerstone
of the new cottage was
an event in which the
entire camp took part.
Into the cornerstone
went a capsule contain-
ing the names of those

who helped build the
cottage' with a brief

explanation of how it
came to be built.

What are we offering youth to increase
their tolerance. arouse them to an ap-
preciation of democratic idealsI and to
give them a better understanding of
wholesome group life and a new faith in
their personal capacities? Perhaps work
, camps otter one way of answering this
question which so many are asking.

employed and unemployed,
and from young European
refugees. All were seeking an
opportunity to work, study,
and spend their leisure time
with others of similar inter-
ests, and to learn from the
community and from each
other the workings of de-
mocracy. The varied backgrounds proved to be of
great value in discussions.

The Work Program

On the first day of camp, members of the group
became acquainted with one another, and during a
tour of the camp the work program was outlined.
The next day everyone was up at 6:30, and soon
after breakfast all were at work on their assigned
projects. One group cleared away the woods, de-
stroying poison ivy to make more play space for
the children who were to use the camp. Another
group was hard at work with pick, shovel and
wheelbarrow doing landscaping Work which would
make the grounds more attractive. A third work unit
tore down an old garage which had become haz-
ardous, while a fourth started the foundation for
the new cottage which was to be built from the
ground up. Other campers began building parti—
tions and cutting doors in a long dormitory which
was to be made into smaller units, and the rest
were busy transforming into living quarters for
children an old water tower which needed a new
roof, new floor, windows, and a trap door.

 

/

296 SUPPOSE WE GO CAMPING—-ALL OF US!

At the end of the first day
of work everyone was pretty
tired. To some it was their
first manual work, and four
hours had seemed like a life
time! As time went on they
learned that cooperation was
necessary, and that each
group must work as a team
if it expected to see results.
Girls developed skill with
shovel, ax, hammer, saw and paint brush. The
boys began to look to the-girls as their equal. They
eagerly watched the progress of each other’s work,
and usually, when the morning’s work was over,
they would go from one project to another to see
what had been done that morning. Some groups
volunteered to work on Sunday in order to see
their projects completed.

The blisters from the first days had now turned
to callouses! The campers were realizing the
hardships of manual labor and enjoying it. Work—
ing with their hands was giving them new skills,
new knowledge and, most of all, a better under-
standing of work. All of the thirty-four campers,
including the staff, had to take their turn at
kitchen duty. Not all of them enjoyed it, but they
soon learned that unpleasant work must be done
as well as the pleasant, and their satisfaction in
accomplishment was gratifying.

Study Program

Usually about an hour and a half to two hours
were devoted each day to discussions. The library
was composed of books and pamphlets brought by
the campers and staff. The early afternoon was
given over to reading in preparation for the day’s
discussion, to leisure-time activities, or to meetings
of special groups. The discussions aroused in the
campers an interest in community as well as world
problems. Frequently field trips were taken to
study the city government at Bridgeport. One
included a trip to Mayor McLevy’s office to get
first hand information on the Socialists’ city gov;
ernment. Many guest speakers were invited to
talk to groups. Raymond Gram Swing proved
to be one of the most interesting when he spoke
on foreign affairs.

The study program for the camp had three
main themes: one, security; two, civil liberties;
and three, foreign policy. Throughout the month
the subjects for study tended to build up toler-

ance and break down many prejudices by mixing '

’tl'le various groups.

Day camping is no doubt playing an im-
portant part in this summer's camping
program. and it is an exceedingly valu-
able activity. We are. however. includ-
ing no articles on the subject in» this
issue. as a number were published in the
May and August I940 issues. Anyone P
interested in day camping will find much
practical information in the booklet Day
Camping, by Maude L. Dryden.which may
be secured from the Association for 25¢.

 

Recreation
A recreation committec’ .
planned the evening pro- '
grams. Evenings were spent
around the fire listening to ;
life stories of refugees, un- -
employed, and college stu1
dents. Folk songs and ballads
were sung around the openl
fire. The campers had an op-I
portunity to choose their owni
leisure activities. Some painted while others read.
Some played volleyball while others watched.
Some swam while fellow campers played tennis."
Some played baseball while others went into West-
port, the neighboring town, on a tour of explora-
tion. On many a hot afternoon the visitor would
find a group practicing a dramatic skit to be given
in the evening. "Saturday night was usually party
night. The campers danced square dances. “lindy
hops,” and polkas. The crowded schedule forced
people to choose their activities carefully.

Evaluations

At the end of the month each work camper was
asked to write an evaluation of his reactions to the
camp. These, when read and culled, fell into three
categories—making new friends, acquiring specific
skills, and understanding some of the problems of
the laboring man. Most of the campers during the
month had made friends who had come from en-
tirely different economic, geographic, religious and
educational backgrounds than their own. Car—
pentry and other forms of work which at the be-
ginning of the month had seemed difficult and im-
possible to acquire, had become a familiar activity
and a pleasure to do.

The camp lasted only one month, but it was felt
that the young people left with a new faith in their
personal capacity, with a better background for
an understanding of the country in which they live,

with many new friends, and with the memories of
a" happy summer.

Week-End Camping

HE INCREASINGLY popular week-end camp is
bringing to thouSands of boys and girls through-
out the country a new and challenging experience
which they might otherwise miss. Many young
people who cannot afford a two weeks’ summer
trip or who must not be away from home for suCh

SUPPOSE WE GO CAMPING—ALL OF US! 297

a long period
are finding the
s h o r t - t e r m
camp an ideal
' way of getting
acquainted with
the outdoors.
Many organi-
_ zations are un—
' able to sponsor
a full-time sum-
' mer camp, and
families are
often unable to
finance such a
trip for their
children. For
these. young
people the less
i e X p e n s i v e ,
s h o r t - t i m e
camp is filling
a real need. The
two-day trip is
also an ideal
and gradual ini-
' tiation into the
outdodr World
for the child to
whom camping
is a new experi-
ence. And for
the winter sports enthusiast
it has many year-round pos-
sibilities for happy week ends.
Thus the week-end camp fills many recreational
needs, particularly for the city resident, now that
improved facilities in public parks and increased
transportation conveniences have made the out-
door world available to many young people who
never before had an opportunity to pack up and
go camping.

-——-———. “r-

{Planning the Trip

If these trips are planned well in advance and
arrangements carefully made, the cost per person
may be kept low. One high school reports that
their girls pay approximately twenty cents for each
meal and fifteen or twenty cents for such items as
first aid equipment and handcraft supplies. If
there is a rental charge for the camp site or a
transportation fee, the cost will go up compara-
tively. The young campers will aways want to do

————_—_H_———

 

Happy and carefree, these girls are
off for a good time in the country

their own plan-
nin g f or the
trip. If they are
made responsi-
ble for the suc-
cess of the ven-
ture, they will
put more en-
thusiasm into
the camp and
consequently
gain more from
it. Leaders will,
of course, want
to be on hand
to advise and
suggest.

Selecting the
Camp Site

Since time is
limited on ‘ a
week-end camp-
ing trip, the
camp site should
not be so far
away or so in—
accessible that a
great deal of
time must be
spent in travel-
ing. The week
end will get off to a poor start
if campers arrive weary and
travel-’worn. Selection of the
camp site should be made in advance and with
great care. The following requirements are listed
in Girl Scout Camps: *

Photo by Gustav Andersen

The camp site must be situated away from densely
settled areas in order to give campers a sense of
independence and resourcefulness.

An ample supply of safe water for drinking, culinary,
and personal cleanliness purposes must be available.

The site must be free from unusual and unnecessary
hazards.

It must be possible to erect latrines 0n the site unless
a site is used on which latrines are already provided.

Medical services must be Within easy reach.

The site should provide facilities for nature study,
pioneering, exploring, handicraft, and if possible,
swimming, boating, and canoeing.

 

* Published by Girl Scouts, Inc., 14 West 49th Street, New Yeti:
City. $.75. .

\

298 SUPPOSE WE GO CAMPING—ALL OF US!

The site should be well trained and should provide
protection from the full force of prevailing winds.
The site should be suliiciently elevated to avoid the

danger of a sudden rise of a stream.

If the site is located on a waterfront . . . the swim-
ming water must be safe from the standpoint of
health, and the swimming, boating, and canoeing
areas must 'be free from unusual and unnecessary
hazards.

Parents should be informed of the camping
plans and written permission obtained from them
before any of the campers are allowed to go on
the trip. They will want to know where the camp
is located, how the children will be transported,
when they will depart and return, and approxi-
mately what the trip will cost. It is imperative
also to advise them about liability for accidents
while at camp. If a doctor or nurse will not ac-
company the group, campers should have physical
examinations to reduce the danger of sickness or
accident.

The planning and carrying out of the program
will be directly in the hands of camp committees.
Every camper will want to work and all the duties
should be shared equally. Each group will make
its plans according to need, but general commit-
tees will be needed for selection of camp and
rental, transportation, equipment and supplies,
meal—planning, cooking, wood and fire, clean-up,
first aid, and program. There may be a special
committee for the campfire and Sunday service.
Equipment and supplies should be carefully listed
before the trip and one committee entrusted with
checking it in and out of camp.

Girls at University Highschool, University of
Illinois, have a handicraft committee which selects
one or two articles which may be completed in a
short time, purchases the materials and helps the
girls with their craft work. They also have a
rainy—weather committee to take charge of the
program if bad weather sends the girls indoors.

Cooking and Clean-Up

Many groups have rotating committees for cook-
ing and clean-up so that no committee will feel
that it has all the hard work. The Girl Scouts
list a typical work schedule arranged so that all
campers are divided into three patrols.

IVork to be Done
Firebuilding and cooking;

Friday Saturday Sunday,

Table setting and serving . . . . .. I II III
Table clearing; dish washing.... II III I
Wood and water; lantrines;

Odd jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. III I II

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Planning the Program

The activities program for the week end mus
be well planned in advance since the time is short
but the schedule should be flexible and easil
adaptable to change. It is never wise to overcrow
the day. Young campers want and need some un
scheduled time in which to loaf and wander aroun
by themselves.

Marian Marshall,‘ teacher of physical educatio
in Illinois University Highschool, describes a typi
cal week-end program in the May issue of th
Journal of the National Education Association:

FHday

4:00 Explore and get settled
6:00 Supper (cook-out)
7:30 Game

9 :15 Lights out

Saturday

8 :00 Breakfast

9 :00 Sports (archery, golf, softball)
10 :30 Sketching

12:00 Class cook-outs

2 :00 Handicraft

4:00 Laying of treasure hunt trails
6:00 Cook-out

7:30 Stunts, folk dancing, singing
9:30 Lights out

Sunday

8:30 Breakfast
10:00 Worship Service

11:00 Treasure Hunt
1:00 Dinner
2:30 Good-bye I

If a campfire is built for the evening program
the legends of the stars and planets will make ap
propriate storytelling fare. _If it rains, a brightl
burning wood fire indoors will cheer up the camp
ers and provide a good background for telling ol
legends or playing Indian games.

Sunday morning service is a special part 0
every week-end camp program. A committee 0
young campers will want to plan the progra
before leaving for camp. Since some of the youn
people must leave camp on Sunday morning t
attend their own denominational churches, thi:
camp service can be scheduled for a late hour
when they will have returned. A simple service
is usually most effective in the primitive '
of a camp.

Most week—end camps do not allow visitors,
since the program is necessarily limited, but in
some cases Sunday is visiting day for families to
inspect the camp and participate in the program.
Each group will want to decide these matters be-

U)
('D
r-r
C."
:13

0Q

SUPPOSE l/VE GO CAMPING=—-ALL OF US!

fore going to camp. When parents are invited,
some campers ask them to bring a picnic lunch
and save the cost of a large meal.

Camp Activities

Swimming, handcraft and nature activities will
probably head the activities list. Many campers
will want to keep a scrapbook of the week end
with a list of birds and trees identified or flower
and leaf specimens. Such a book might also in-
clude a sky map with stars and constellations indi-

' cated in their correct positions. Sketches of photo-

graphs of trees, flowers or animals will add to the
attractiveness of the week-end record.

Nature activities are a “must” on any camp
program. There are trees and birds to be studied

and listed, bird calls to be identified, stars to be

watched and charted. Campers will find nature

‘ games a pleasant way of absorbing nature lore.

Here are a few games which will serve as exam-
ples; others will be found in camping and game

l books.

Tree Tag. Give each camper ten paper tags on

l which are printed names of trees common in the
i vicinity. Players are given twenty minutes to pin

the tags on the north side of the trees listed on the
tags. No tree is to have more than one tag. The
person finding the greatest number of trees cor-
rectly wins.

Bird Alphabet. Players number off into teams.
The game leader mentions a letter of the alphabet.
Each player in order names a bird which begins

' with that letter. Five seconds to answer and then

r
l
I

you are out! No one may name a bird already
mentioned. The team having the greatest number
still playing at the end of a specified amount of

l time is the winner. This game may also be played
l with Howers and trees.

Nature Guessing Games. Each player pretends

. that he is some nature object and when called

upon describes himself in fairly general terms
from which the others try to guess his identifica-
tion. This may also be played by having the camp-
ers ask the “It” player questions about his identity
which can be answered only by yes or no.

Another guessing game requires one player to
leave the group which decides what nature object
he is to represent. When the player returns he
must guess his own identity by asking questions
of the others.

Holding the Front is a good game for a small
hiking group. Campers travel in single file. The

299

leader halts the file frequently and asks the person
in front to identify a tree, plant, flower or bird
on the side of the road or near-by woods. If the
first hiker fails, he goes to the end of the line and
the next one in line moves up to the front for the
next question.

Treasure Hunts and nature scavenger hunts are
always popular and make ideal programs for a
week-end camp. For the treasure hunt, trails can
be laid on Saturday with the hunt run off on
Sunday. When time is limited as at a short-time
camp, a modified hunt will serve the purpose very
well. Hide slips of paper within a certain speci—
fied distance from the camp. Assemble the group
at the main ground before hunting for each slip.
Give them general directions, such as “within
thirty feet of the bunk house,” and provide prizes
for the campers who find the slips. Fruit makes
appropriate camp prizes.

The hunt may be varied by tying small pieces of
colored cloth to near-by trees or bushes and giving
a prize to the one finding the most pieces. This
may also be done with colored paper slips hidden
near rocks and trees.

There are many more nature games for both
indoor and outdoor parties, as well as many
familiar games easily adaptable to camping and
nature subjects. Planning the games and providing
any necessary properties ahead of time will save
trouble at the camp and insure the success of the
games. A party kit of games to be played at
camp would make an interesting spring or fall
project for groups planning week-end camping
tr1ps.

» Items-to-Remember

Camp leaders, particularly inexperienced ones,
will want to make a list of items-to-remember
while planning for the camp. Here are a few hints
given by Miss Marshall in her article on week-

end camps :

Have a definite understanding with the owners of
the camp concerning what is expected of campers,
especially in regard to cleaning the buildings at
the end of the outing.

Find out about the camp: accessibility of telephone
and physician; bedding furnished; refrigerator
facilities; dishes, pots, dish towels, and fuel fur—
nished; delivery service for ice and milk; availa-
bility of piano and radio; location of any poison ivy.

Remember to take soap and paper napkins.

Have an automobile on the ground in case of
emergency. _

(Continued on page 340)

What They Say About Recreation

111 HE PIONEERING that must now be done in

Tthis country lies in the region of human

comradeship,’ an eloquent preacher declared

not long ago. Singing supplies one of the widest

and most fertile fields for that comradeship. Its

harmony can pervade a'family or a community.”—
Fairfax Downey.

“Give leisure and recreation for the individual
as respectable a place in our scheme of life valua-
tions as we give to work.”—-—R. Bruce Tom.

“Democracy fundamentally rests upon the con-
sent of the governed. If the individuals composing
a democratic society are intelligent, able, and ready
to cooperate with others in the interest of! the
common good, democracy rests upon a solid base.
Such cooperation must begin on the community
level, for no superstructure can long endure if the
local units are weak.”-—From A Guide to C om-
munity Coordination.

“Soundly conceived and properly administered,
the recreation program provides not only an indis-
pensable service in itself but also the key to char-
acter training and to the general development of
morale and patriotic citizenship.”—The American
Youth Commission.

“Of all the activities of childhood, play is the
most worth while. The successful adult is, nine
times out of ten, the person who was a successful
child, and by successful child we mean not the
child who works steadily to prepare for his future
maturity, but the child who gets most out of, and
puts most in, the life of the present.”-——Dr.
Josephine Foster in Busy Childhood.

“There is only one subject matter for educa-
tion, and that is life in all of its manifestations.”—

Alfred N. Whitehead.

“Today we hear a great deal of discussion about
national defense. Back on the home front play in
its' best sense is an armor in itself, a shield against
lack of faith and understanding. In the end, surely
no mechanized force of lawlessness and greed can
make any headway against a tried and tested way
of learning, a' way of happiness, a way of under-
standing.”—Josephine Blackstock.

300

 

life itself. It is as if play were a physical la

which their young bodies cannot disobey. Noth-
ing has stopped children from playing—not eve
war and destruction all around them. . . . Th
value of play is very clear to us today. We a

aware that the young child not only grows and -
learns through his play, but that through it M -
expresses a great deal of his emotional life.”—
From Editorial in Child Life, Summer of 1941. I

“Children must play; the impulse is almost a

   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    

“The man who tries to do something and fails
is infinitely better off than the one who tries to do
nothing and succeeds.”—Louis Allis Messenger.

“Our cultural and social life will be less rich
if we lose our traditional expressions. As they
have served the past and are used in the present,
so will the future need them. They should not be
blown away with a changing civilization.”-—Sarah
Gertrude Knott.

“We have evolved from a playground movement
into a great leisure-time movement which encorri—
passes almost everything in the way of construc-
tive human activity, and when we refer to the
playground I hope we also mean museums, libra-
ries and meeting rooms of all kinds.” — Ott
Romney.

Governor Lehman of New York has said: “The

growing threats of our times and the rising in-
tensity of our preparations against tyranny and
oppression call for the utmost effort of each in-
dividual and every community toward the preser-
vation and strengthening of the health of the na-
tion.” Among other recommendations Governor
Lehman urged emphasis on sports for pleasure
rather than what he termed the present “unfortu-
nate professionalism of athletics.”

“We have come a long way from the ‘ball and
bat’ stage of recreation, but ‘we must remembe
that the 'process of developing leadership will de-
pend upon our ability to change attitudes, to aid
people. to adapt themselves to our changing socia
order, and to help them acquire the tools for meet-
ing the needs of that changing order.”:——Tlie Post
Dispatch. '  ' i '

 
  
   
      
 

URFING is said to be
S the national sport of

Australia. The Ha-
waiian surfboard riders
ave achieved a world-
wide publicity, but dur-
ing the last five years
Southern California’s
wave riders have in-
creased literally by thou-
sands. In the neighbor-
hood of Los Angeles
alone there are eight surf -
ing clubs, each with its
own particular favorite
stretch of beach where
the conformation of the
waves is right for riding,
and with its own organi—
zation and ofncers. All the clubs cooperate in a
program of activity carried out throughout the
.' entire year.
Driving through the country on a week end or
‘ holiday, the motorist will observe young bronzed
l giants riding down the boulevards heading towards
 the beach, with their surfboards tied to the tops
of the cars. Often these boards are stacked two
I or three high. A visit to the Coves at Palos Verdes
l during the evening will show groups of young
men clustered around bonfires passing the time
until the daylight dawns and the time arrives for
i the day’s suriing to begin.

Members of the surnng clubs take delight not
only in the sport of surf-riding, with the exultant
thrill of speeding along the crests of the big, green
combers, but they enjoy as well the many varie-
ties of activities incidental to the use of the surf-
board. Among them are the following, all out-
growths of surfing:

Each club appears to have its own group of
photographic hobbyists. The natural environment
of the seacoast where surfing is done lends itself
ideally to spectacular photography. Any surfer
photographed on the crest of a giant comber is
good picture material.

Paddling the surfboards around the edge of the
coves during the time the waves are not large
encouraged their use as surface speed craft, with
the result that two years ago speed tests were

 

Paddleboards tor Pool Programs

 

By C. P. L. NICHOLLS

Supervisor of Aquatics
Department of Playground and Recreation
Los Angeles. California

made with paddleboards, a mile being covered in
10 minutes 16.7 seconds on unlimited boards, 880
yards in 5 minutes 32.3 seconds, a quarter of a
mile in two minutes 46 seconds, and 100 yards in

30.7 seconds. These times were all made by the
Southern California athletes.

As the boys paddle around the edges of the
coves they look down through the clear water, and
soon they find themselves diving for abalone to
the depths of from twelve to twenty feet, stacking
the abalone on the paddleboards and taking them
ashore for an abalone fry. This, after all, is fol-
lowing in the steps of the ancient Indian, for a
stone’s throw away archaeologists have discovered
the_locations of extensive kitchen-middens.

As the years .have gone by, some of the club
members have traveled to the South Seas and
brought back techniques used by native watermen
in the Islands, such as spear-fishing, riding the
waves with outrigger canoes, sailing their paddle-
boards, and shell and coral collecting. They have
brought back, also, the fad for bright-colored
swimming equipment. Itiis not unusual to see

‘ .301

302 PADDLEBOARDS FOR POOL PROGRAMS

quite a scattering of brightly~
colored trunks and pareus
throughout the groups gath—
ered along the beach. A surf—
board usually acquires an
Hawaiian name. This is
painted below a palm tree,
under which is usually de—
picted a swaying hula dancer. All of this serves
to give the sport of surf-riding and paddle-board—
ing color and romance. '

It is not unusual to find among these devotees
of the joys of Neptune members of the learned
professions who have discovered that it is a pleas—
urable practice to leave the office late in the after—
noon and to spend some of the best parts of the
day, sunrise and sunset times, enjoying their
favorite recreation by the shore.

Before taking up surfing, one must first be a
strong swimmer; hence the municipal swimming
pools have found that somehow swimming lessons
are becoming increasingly popular and there is a
desire for instruction in the techniques of handling
paddleboards. Blueprints on the construction of
paddle surfboards become precious, and the direc—
tions for their construction are in great demand.

Inter-club rivalry soon developed the game of
paddle polo, played on an especially designed
double-end paddleboard. The year 1940 was the
third season in which inter—club competition in
paddle polo was conducted. Eight clubs partici—
pated, and even the girls tried the game. Paddle
polo was played both in special swimming carni—
vals and water galas during swimming meets, and
for a leading program as the sole activity, three
games making up the complete evening’s enter-
tainment.

It might have been that the game grew out of
water polo, for Southern California possesses the
water polo team that has represented the United
States in the last four Olympic Games—in Paris,
Amsterdam, Los Angeles and Berlin. The excel—
lence of this team has tended to discourage rather
than develop additional teams, because the eventual
winner was always forecast ahead of time. But
when the game of paddle polo started to become
so popular, the ability to play straight water polo
was of no particular advantage, and a new and
younger group of enthusiasts for this type of
water game soon developed.

A word of caution is in order here. The field
of play should be a maximum water polo area of
60 by 90 feet, although an acceptable game can be

Mr. Nicholls suggests that the paddle-
boards make effective rescue devices
on a lake swimming area or camp water
front. A description of techniques
used in making paddleboard rescues is
included in the publication ehtitled
"Life Saving and Water Safety." which
is published by the American Red Cross.

  
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
    
   
  
  
    
   
 
  

played on a smaller area.
the pool area is longer t
the field of play, float
goals may have to be c
structed. These can be

chored in the middle of

end zone. A buoy line sho
also be used as a side 1i
and in pools having breakable gutters these sho
be set at least two feet frOm the side. A techn'
foul should be called on any player touching
board to the side of the tank. This rule set
to protect the tank and scum gutter effectively.

Paddleboards are proving to be a distinct
junct to the skill of swimming. They enhance
many activities that can be performed upon the
and in both rough and still water sports they
step up interest immensely. The techniques
handling the boards are interesting and varied, a
we are just beginning to appreciate their m
uses.

The girls, finding the game a bit too strenu
for them, used the boards in off moments
develop figure patterns similar to those displa
in the New York and San Francisco Aquaca
So the swimming pools were used, when norm
closed for recreational swimming, at such peri
as the noon hour, from eight to nine in the mo
ing, and from five o’clock until dark, for pad e
polo team practice and girls’ pattern paddl
groups.

Individual experts in paddling technique w e
soon developed. It was found that the boards 1 t
themselves to difficult gymnastic stunts, such 5
arm levers and hand stands, head stands, a (1
many other difficult balancing stunts, inclu g
skipping rope and diving through fiery ho S
from board to board.

The best of this group became water cirdJs
material, and were among the most popular waif

   
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   

specialty acts during the last water carnival seas n.
We came upon one paddler, early in the mo
ing, beaching his board, and dragging along!
string of fish. We found that his technique of

front of the board, paddle in a prone position, an
carry the fish line between the big and middle t
of his raised fore leg. As soon as he found a {is
jerking his jig, he hauled it in. Before long he ha.
a string of fish.

Since paddling and surf-riding may be done i
a very vigorous manner, the temperature of thf
water is of no great consequence, so that eve

303

PADDLEBOARDS FOR POOL PROGRAMS

  

 

  

   
   

  

onv>mq$sm24 01:

1r)«ODOCZO
93..

   

DHODN)4.0Z
{It

 

.Il .
‘5»3? N3. “Seth 9.3th NE 3‘

Nail!—
. l._.

 

 

4..
\

NBJN

92.362 Li? \nannm

snazma A uhxmb bait? 9‘ 3:3 $93? mo: Ms.on bx RS‘ «:2?»

§§3ha§hub UK \UAFQQ ‘Mhbmuh

   

 

 

 

 

63.33: “39%.. Mush? NB id
k2. Bunny \Sokmhbkb thhh

 

 

..\

   

    

‘- hb‘k 3:25. B .3. 3‘

i 93d. 3333. 933 a; can.
I Xi 03.2». ..

II 292‘ $33». «Dosh E xsni N:
N- d. : mnanh Miami 9.

HI 535220 .3... V» x S...

a wrath. 9.... .ilsumthiohm 2L2.“
a u.» 09 9.2.5. {xwhxbhoom 9.2».
a hm nzbitux‘ >5..th

 

 

23%- .9: NE.“ utnhwhx N034“.
Ho\ 33» hols}

  
  

9.3 302 32.54... R Mn 5» m.

   
   

 
    

353“ $6an @999“

  

0923 h: {SNHh Mthskn‘
\bh i“ .1 “Sn END

   

u so 32m. AKQO

304 PADDLEBOARDS FOR POOL PROGRAMS

when the ocean temperature drops to below 50
degrees Fahrenheit, surfers and paddlers are still
working hard at it.

School shops and recreation handicraft work-
shops, as well as many home workshops, provide
ideal places in which to construct a paddle or surf-
board during the winter time. The complete bill
of material for a surfboard may not run much
over $8.00. Professionally constructed boards are
available, both of the solid balsa wood or hollow
type. These would cost in the neighborhood of
from $3 5 to $50 each.

Directions for Constructing Surf
Paddleboards

Material. It is suggested that in lieu of an
ordinary three-ply top and bottom, casein-glued
three-ply wood (trade name “Weldwood”), or a
good but heavier substitute, one-eighth inch
“Masonite” pressed wood, may be used.

The sides should be spruce, and the nose, as

well as the tail block, white cedar or redwood.‘

Either galvanized or seven inch screws should be
used. All oints should be thoroughly daubed with
casein glue before nailing or screwing. In putting
on the t0p and bottom, one thickness of three-
quarter inch seamstress bias tape should be put
between the joints along the sides before final
screwing of the top and bottom to the frame.
This acts as caulking. All corners and the sides,
ends, and front should be thoroughly rounded.

Three coats of best grade spar varnish should
be applied to the board on completion. At any
time when, due to use, this varnish coat becomes
broken, it should be immediately sealed again and
thoroughly dried. .

The top and bottom should be nailed and
screwed to the side on two and one-half inch
centers. Screws should be counter-sunk and the
screw holes thoroughly filled with a good grade of
wood putty.

The board will weigh approximately forty-five
pounds when completed.

Care of Board. The board should be stored in
the shade, and the cork in the nose of the board,
which is put in for an air-hole, should be left out
at all times when the board-is not in the water for
use, as the air inside the board will expand with
the heat of the sunlight, and contract as the board
is put into the cooler water from the hot sun.
Leaving the cork in, under either of these cir-
cumstances, will crack the board.

Paddle Polo Boards. Boards made for padd
polo should be made with a minimum width of
inches, length of 12 feet, with both ends round
and flared, so that they may be paddled eith
forward or“ backward. The air holes should
placed in the bottom, or a flush counter—sun
brass fitting used.

The color of the board- should differ for eac
team. Six white and six orange is suggested
designate to which team the player belongs, an
the boards should be numbered from “I” to “6,
with 12 inch black numbers on each end of the to

  
 

Cost. The approximate cost of material fo
surfboard will run in the neighborhood of eight
or nine dollars. The board will last a lifetime, if
taken care of properly. Minor changes in desigh
may be made to suit individual requirements.

Balsa Wood Board. Many prefer a solid Ian:

nated balsa wood board. However, great ca
needs to be taken in shaping these boards.

A 12—foot board with a square tail is verI
popular for heavy men. .In the Hawaiian Island
many surfers use solid redwood boards.

Sailing Boards. Hollow surfboards may be fitt
with a sail, using the short mast leg-of-mutt 1
type with a long rudder, which may be spread
the foot, with a tiller or a cross member. T
board may have a keel or center board, and these
may be installed following the general principl
of sailboat construction. T

Speed Boards. The boards designed for speed
are finer, narrower and longer, running as 10
as 20 to 22 feet, maybe as narrow as 12 inches
14 inches, with “V” bottoms. Some of them ha
been designed with light balsa wood outriggers.

Surfboards and Safety

“The surfboard as a piece of rescue apparatus
has been for hundreds of years a unique develot-
ment belonging almost wholly to the islanders f
the south Pacific, notably in the Hawaiian Islands.
Since the advent of the new type hollow surf-
board, and with the use of balsa wood on the
mainland of the United States, and because of its
unrestricted usefulness in all waters, whether
coastal or inland, it has become a rescue device of
universal appeal and interest. As such it is taking
its place as an extraordinarily effective piece of
rescue equipment.”—From “American Red CrOSS
Life Saving and Water Safety Manual.”

Providing Recreation for Men in Uniform

For a number of months” articles have appeared in RECREATION telling of

the activities of cities in providing recreation for draftees in near-by camps
and for workers in defense industries. We hope to make this a monthly

i feature of, the magazine, but we cannot do it without your help. Won’t

Dances for Naval Trainees

By WILMA CLIZBE

Recreation Department
Dearborn, Michigan

[TH TWELVE HUNDRED sailors dropping in on

our community, the Dearborn Department

of Recreation has an unusual opportunity

0 o cooperate in providing recreation for the United

tates Navy Service School trainees stationed at

he Ford Motor Company. Here permanent bar-

acks. a power house, and a recreation building

ith complete facilities have been built by Mr.
enry Ford for the boys.

The first move toward organization was made
.vhen the VVomen’s Advisory Council of the Rec-
eation Department was called to a meeting to
iscuss what could be done in the way of social
lntertainment for the boys who had so suddenly

een introduced into our city. This Council is
r omposed of representatives from all the women’s
1 lubs and some members at large who are espe-

'ally active in community life. At this meeting
the enthusiasm was so spontaneous and the desire
l o serve so great that plans were initiated immedi-
‘ tely for the first of a series of dances to be held
I I or the sailors.

The next move was a trip to the naval base by
he executive committee of the Council who had

' lunch with the commanding
officers in the barracks din-
ing room. Following the
luncheon the committee
members were escorted by
the officers on a tour of the
administration buildings,

- power house, kitchens, mess
. halls, infirmary, sleeping
quarters, and areas set aside
for recreation. The purpose

 

"As I understand it. the method through-
out will be to worlt shoulder to shoulder
with other existing services; to supplement
local resources where this is essential: to
serve soldiers. sailors. and defense workers
,j in ways which will make daily lite—and in
particular leisure hours—better and happier
for them and for us all."——Ftanklin Delano
Roosevelt in Recreation Bulletin issued
by the Office of the Coordinator of Health,
WelfareI and Related Defense Activities.

you tell us what organizations in your city are doing to meet the need?

of this trip was to establish contacts with the of-
ficers in charge and to enable the committee mem-
bers to see the type of young men stationed at the
naval base. They learned that the average age of
the boys who are stationed in Dearborn for a
period of three months for intensive shop train-
ing by teachers of the Ford trade apprentice
schools is about nineteen, some of them being as

young as sixteen.

The Dances

The dances are held on Saturday nights at the
Miller School gymnasium, the most conveniently
located center for the boys. The parties begin at
8:30 and continue until 12:00 o’clock. The girls
invited to attend the dance are selected by ten
chaperons, each of whom is responsible for ten
girls. The girls are brought to the dance in busses
and taken directly to their homes following the
party. Under no circumstances are the trainees
allowed to escort the girls to their homes. Each
chaperon is responsible for her ten girls and sees
them to their homes. The 125 boys attending each
dance are selected by the commanding officer from
the naval post.

Each boy and each girl is given a ticket of ad—
mission to the dance and an attractive three by
four inch souvenir card. of introduction with his
or her name printed on it. These little cards,
pinned on the dancers’ shoulders, are a great help
to the hostesses in getting
the young people acquainted.
By the time they have had
the grand march and have
received a few introduc—
tions, the boys and girls
have the situation' pretty
well in hand. Many of the
boys take their little name
cards with them when they
leave the training school

305

306

 

and hang them on their hammocks as a souvenir
of the dance when they go to sea.

A good many mixers and circle two-steps are
introduced which help a great deal in keeping the
boys and girls moving from one partner to an—
other. Some of the trainees are a little timid, but
the majority require little or no urging when it
comes to asking the attractive young ladies for a
dance! The girls dress in pretty, semi-formal
gowns, which are a lovely sight against the formal
blues worn by the trainees. Soft lights help give
that necessary atmosphere of glamour which adds
greatly to the success of the dances.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ford, who have become
very much interested in the dance program, dur—
ing June gave two parties for the boys in beauti-

PROVIDING RECREATION FOR MEN IN UNIFORM

Courtesy Dearbom Recreation Department

ful Lovett Hall. This provided a thrill which the l
boys will never forget. Members of the Recrea-
tion Department’s Advisory Council again acted
as chaperons and transported the girls for this
dance in private cars to and from Greenfield Vil-
lage. During the evening Mr. Lovett taught the
trainee some of the early American dances. This
proved a real novelty for the boys. Mixers again
helped keep the group moving. A dainty luncheon
was served, and before leaving all the dancers -
were called together for some group singing, when
the sailors abandoned all signs of temerity in the
singing of “Anchors Aweigh.”

As a result of the dances many boys have re-
ceived dinner and social invitations to the homes |
of the girls. These invitations are eagerly accepted

PROVIDING RECREATION FOR MEN IN UNIFORM

by the boys who greatly appreciate the opportunity
of spending an evening with a friendly family.
The success of the dance program has been the
cause of much satisfaction, and the enthusiasm of
the citizens of Dearborn seems to be unlimited.

Week-End Entertainment

By LUCYLE GODWIN

Recreation Department
Monroe' Louisiana

Monroe, Louisiana, through the Recreation De-
partment, extended a hearty welcome to the
soldiers from the near-by camp who visited the
, city over the Fourth of July. Each soldier was
given a program of activities on his arrival in
;‘ town, according to a previous arrangement with
the commanding officer.

The program, in which the people of Monroe
cooperated enthusiastically, was a great success,
and the members of the 106th Cavalry from Chi-
cago who were entertained by the townspeople

eXpressed great appreciation for the hospitality
they received.

The program was as follows:

Thursday. July Bid

1. Open house 4:30 P. M. to 5:00 P. M. St.
Matthews Catholic School Auditorium, Wood
Street, back of church. Refreshments.

2. Dance, Barkdull Faulk School, 8:30 P. M.
(Sixty soldiers invited.)

3. Dance, Northeast Junior College gym. 8:00
I P. M. to II :00 P. M. (All invited.) Purple Jackets
and D.B.S. Girls, hostesses.

‘ 4. Recreation Center, 804 South Grand Street.
’3 Open daily 8 :00 A. M. to 10:00 P. M.

Friday. July 4th

I. Open house 9:00 A. M. to 5:00 P. M. St.

Matthews Catholic School, W ood Street, back of
church.

2. Open house—Y.W.C.A. 3:00 P. M. to 5 :00
P. M.

3. Swing concert by soldiers’ orchestra—6:30
P. M.

4. Party—Presbyterian Church. 8 :00 P. M. Cor-

ner Grammont and Harrison Street. (150 soldiers
invited.)

307

5. Party—First Methodist Church. 8:00 P. M.
Corner Jackson and Wood Street. (150 soldiers
invited.)

6. Party—Gordon Avenue Methodist Church.
8:00 P. M. (50 soldiers invited.)

7. Family picnic—Seventh Day Adventist would
like ten soldiers. Invited 10:30 A. M. Friday.

8. All boys (especially of Jewish faith) invited
to Temple, Friday night, Jackson Street.

9. Lutheran Church lunch—twenty soldiers in—
vited, 3:30 P. M.

10. Open house—Ouachita Parish High School.
Friday and Saturday at Gas Building, South Grand
Street. 9:00 A. M. to 10200 P. M. Writing ma—
terial, magazines, games.

11. Open house. Woodmen of the World will
hold open house Friday and Saturday at the

W .O.W. hall over the United Gas Corporation on

Jackson Street. Writing material, magazines,
games.

Saturday, July 5th

Open house— Y.M.H.A., II5 Catalpa. 9:00
A. M. to 6:00 P. M. (Refreshments) Writing ma-
terials, magazines, pool tables, table tennis, etc.

The Monroe Baseball Club extends a cordial
invitation to all soldiers in uniform to attend any
or all of the games over the week end. Games
will be played on Friday afternoon, July 4th, F ri-
day night, July 4th, Saturday night, July 5th.
Game time will be announced later. You will be
the guest of the Club.

The Young Business Men’s Sunday School class
of the Methodist Church invites all soldiers to
meet with them Sunday morning at the W.O.W.
hall, Jackson Street.

Sunday. July 6th

Sunday—all soldiers invited to church of their
choice. Invitations‘to dinner in private homes.

All boys who would like invitations to dinner
Sunday register and receive address of hostess
from Monroe Recreation Center, 804 South
Grand, or phone 4785.

Citizens of Monroe and West Monroe with
stickers on their cars, “Hop in,” will be glad to
carry soldiers to their destination at all times.

Promoting Good Neighbor Relationships

HIS SUMMER in many cities playground chi1~
Tdren will learn about their South American

neighbors and will develop a feeling of kin-
ship with them through activities based on the
folklore of South American countries.

In Memphis, Tennessee, for example, each of
the park playgrounds will represent a South
American republic and will introduce the folkways
of that country into its program of creative play,
games, dances and other activities.

The children of each playground will make a
scrapbook with wooden covers
10” by I 3” and with pages of
construction paper held together
by leather thongs. The cover
will be decorated with appro-
priate wooden cut-outs and let-
ters designating the country.
The scrapbooks will contain a

 

reation program. [Early in the summer many 0
the women’s recreation groups sponsored by the
Department of Playground and Recreation met at
Griffith Playground to sing the songs and take‘
part in the dances of the good neighbors to the
South. The spirit of the fiesta reigned. Greetings
in the language of South American countriesI
opened the morning program of this Pan-Ameri-
can play day.

Buenos Dias Amiga

incorporated the good neighbor theme in its reci

(Good day, friend)
Como Esta Usted?
(How are you?)
Bien, Gracias, Y Usted?)
(Well, thanks; and you?)

The program was as follows:

“El Rancho Grande” and other
songs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10 :00 A. It:

Pan-American rhythmics . . . . . .

 

. . _. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..10:30 A.M.
descrlpnim Of the country writ- Folk dances of the Americas
ten and Illustrated by the PlaY' .................. ..11:00 A.1\'.
ground Children' “The Star-Spangled Banner”

Each playground will also . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..11230 Mi.
make a Silk flag of its country Luncheon . . . . . . . . . . . . ..11235 A. M.
3’ by 5’ with a canvas bindin Stunts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..12:30 P. M.
1%” wide on the Side attacheg ? Ll ‘ Volleyball, tennis, etc.... 1:30 P. M.
to the pole. This flag will be Each playground presented a
dedicated to Joseph Lee on Na- / \ Pan-American stunt limited to
tional Joseph Lee Day. The \ five'minutes. In working out the
shield of each country will be / stunts directors kept in mind

on exhibition at the playground.

The children themselves will 52”“ ///////4

make this shield, if possible
from wood native to the
country their playground
represents. The shield may
be burned, painted, or
carved.

During the summer
every playground will work
on an original project re-
lated to its country which
will be kept a secret from
the other playgrounds
until the day of the play
festival, when it will be
presented and judged.

Los Angeles, California,
is another city which has

308

Singing mpaper "an

The "Singing Newspaper Man'' is found in the
interior of some of the South American coun-
tries where he sings the news to natives un-
able to read. This is one of the interesting
customs from South America described in the
bulletinI "A Pan-American Carnival." issued
“ by the National Recreation Association at 25
cents. Many recreation workers will find the
bulletin, with its suggestions for adapting
these customs to the local program. exceed-
ingly helpful and timely.
sources of information on South American tra-
ditions. dances, music, games, and other forms

of recreation will be found in a bibliography
published by the Association under the title.
"Our Neighbors to the South." Price l5 cents.

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
   

' the theme of the play day, and
 there were songs and dances of
Central and South America,
sketches with a Latin
flavor, or any original
stunts in keeping with the
theme. Each paticipant
brought her own lunch,
and the playgrounds pro-
vided their own coffee.
Said the bulletin in an-
nouncing the play day:
“As we sing El Rancho
Grande and Cielito LindO,
and dance La Iota and L
Jesucita, we gain a glimps
of the lives of the peopl
from other America

(Continued on. page 341)

Many classified

   
   
 
 
 
    
   
  
    
  
   
 
   
 
 
   
  
  

l 0 THIS IS A SQUARE DANCE? My first! I never
S had such fun!” “Say, this is as good as a
badminton workout—and more fun!” “We
aven’t had this much fun since we left Texas
“It’s more fun!”
f all the “calls”
eard in a square
’uance program
his is the one
ost enjoyed by
his caller. It
rings to mind the
ebutante who
:uropped by with
ome friends “to
ee what it’s all
bout”——and stay-
rd the evening
i t h u s ; t h e
.oung married
ouple who were
nembers of the
ountry club with
he very popular
adminton courts
vhere “square
ets” hadn’t ar—
ived yet; the ex-
exas couple
vhose Jerry, age
our, Betty, ten,
“Buck,” twelve, Phyllis, fourteen, and “J,”
Junior, sixteen, take just pride in Mom’s and

Dad’s square set skill.

In Atlanta we have adopted the term “set” with
special adaptation to needs within the group, a
ear old now, with a birthday party celebration
ast April. Square dancing in these parts, accord-
ing to legend, had fallen into disrepute. Most of it
had been relegated to roadhouse settings. and in
many instances only sadly deteriorated remnants
remained. The dances seemed a long Way re-
moved in atmosphere, music, and activity from their
alleged ancestry! They bore little resemblance
to the fine old celebrations after “corn-shuck-
in’s,” “barn-raisin’s,” “stir-off’s,” and the like of
l earlier days. So in our group we agreed to drop
| the term “dance” and substitute “set” in an at-
l

J!
!

     
  
 

!

 

 

’Round That Couple and Take a Little Peek!"

By ROSALIND F. RIEMAN
Atlanta. Georgia

 

 

tempt to substitute for a negative association a
fresh interpretation of genuine tradition.

The Atlanta Contry-Square Set grew out of a
professional course in social activity where teach—
ers and other group workers came to learn and
practice folk material in songs, games, and coun-
try dances. A generous share of American flavor
was introduced with the dances, and as the course
was closing an increased interest in having more
of this activity was evidenced. With the definite
request for a new series of meetings to start the
following week, two points stood out: American
sources were preferred, and membership in couples
was popular! It was learned in discussion that
wives in the course thought they might intrigue
their husbands, and the unattached felt the matter
was of sufficient interest to justify considerable

309

310 “ROUND THAT COUPLE AND TAKE A LITTLE PEEK!”

initiative in interesting a friend! The rest of us
volunteered to join forces with them to see what
we could do to even up their score! Members
agreed to strengthen the group for the first meet-
ing, while the leader would work to secure a loca-
tion which would be adequate in setting and at-
mosphere to ht our social state of mind.

In many fewer words than the hours spent, we
find entered in our diary: “About thirty couples
had an evening of square sets the following
Monday.”

This was the'recorded fact, but what was in-
volved in making this entry possible?

Looking for a Meeting Place

Part of every day or night, whichever could be
spared when a car was available, was spent ex-
amining church basements, lodge or club rooms,
store lofts—running down blind alleys that led
from kindly suggestions. “No light,” “no heat,”
“not open evenings,” “not there any more,” were
some of the results of conversations with janitors,
caretakers, and watchmen, when they could be
found.

And suddenly it was Friday! Some of us were
having another look from a car provided by a
gracious member. We were nearing the Ameri-
can Legion clubhouse in its attractive park setting.
The sturdy little white stone building, community
house style, was brightly lighted, for Friday was
a popular night with members. But somehow the
friendly walk and auditorium door had an espe-
cially engaging look. “American square sets for
having fun and preserving line old traditions Open
a series of evenings in the American Legion club—
house.” I tried it out loud, and we were all struck
by the idea that it “clicked.” Then—bless the
house committee officer who did not turn us down
but referred the matter with his approval to the
commandant, to whom it appealed; who asked
pertinent and intelligent questions about object-
ives, scope, and administration, then promised to
let us know Sunday morning!

Came Sunday morning, and we learned they
liked the idea. We could have the clubhouse audi-
torium Monday night! Nobody minded that there
was not time for the promised notices in the mail.
Members of the Place Finding Committee divided
up the list and went to work on the telephone to
spread the good news.

For three Mondays in succession we experi-
enced this gracious courtesy while, like the boll
weevil of folk song fame, we kept “looking for a

’3

home. We welcomed the loyal members of the
original course, the “sentimentally reminiscent of .
the old days,” who read our notice in the paper,
as did the curious. We shall always remember the
loyal hospitality of Atlanta’s Post No. I, on that
smooth shiny fioor where week ends full swing
orchestras played for admission dances, and we
were welcome to pioneer on Mondays.

During these first evenings we offered for the
most part “round” or “circle” sets. Only one or
two “contry’s” and “squares” were used as alter—
nates, but they were very much in our planning and
the group took its name from them. Many folks
were concerned over our apparent misspelling of
“country,” but our members love to explain that
“contry” is not “country” but “contre” from the
French, and-they greatly enjoy hearing the im-
pressed critic’s “Oh!”

The circle is a friendly, sociable form which
can be traced back to Druid priests around oak
trees and with patterns that have woven their
way through countless folk festival rites and into
children’s ring games. For us it was highly de-
sirable for sociability and for foundation floor
patterns. Many had never seen a square dance,
and more had never experienced one. But the
“ring” had magic, and timed to the eight measure
rhythm lent wings to the feet!

How vividly those evenings stand out in my
mind! In the round sets we practised the tradi—
tional spring, gliding steps and the pivot of the
“swing,” “promenade,” “grand right and left,”
“forward and back,” “gents in the' center,” “ladies
bow and gents know how,” and many others. And
those. who were hearing the old—timey tunes lid—l
dled for the first time became “litten” music-
conscious and knew why a juke box was out of
place here.

The Music Problem

We learned in these days the importance of the
just-exactly-right accompaniment. Many tried but
there were few whose stringing or tunes were ac—
ceptable. Fiddle, banjo, guitar, accordion, and
mouth organ were tried singly and in combination.
And until the advent of Ed Wallace and Forrest
Mitchell we were more or less unsettled musically.
At least they knew what we wanted and did their
best to give us an old tune remembered or some
of the more modern mountain airs in acceptable
eight measure rhythm—this in spite of their pride
in a “swing” repertoire which often got the better
of them during intermissiOns! But they stuck to

“ROUND THAT COUPLE AND TAKE A LITTLE PEEK!” 311

us during the fall and winter, accepting very mod—
erate fees because they understood what we were
trying to do. To Ed, too, we owe the Caldwells,
long-time family friends of' the W allaces, of whom

more later.

Some Organization Details

Realizing the immediate need for money for
music and the not too distant possibility of rOOm
rent, we shared the hrst evening’s expenses and
scheduled a “powwow” before the second meet—
ing. A committee of seven made up of the leader,
the chairmen of the business and social commit—
tees, and four members met at the leader’s house
for discussion, and the Steering Committee came
into being before the open fire. It was agreed at
this meeting to have monthly membership cards at

a nominal fee; to ask a nominal single admission-
‘fee but with a distinct advantage to the member;

to issue both double and single memberships, but
to encourage the first very generally and the sec-
ond only for “gents.” (Of course this last took a
bit of doing with a generous amount of diplomacy
and tact!) We were even able to make up couple
membership. from mixed singles, believing that the
arrangement from the social point of view was
worth the decrease in financial returns because of
the increase in membership which resulted. In the
long run people saw our point and knew we were
working for strong organization.

A difference now is in the two sets of cards and
quarterly membership: fall—September, October,
and November; winter—December, January, and
February; spring—March, April, and May. This
was to have closed the season but a petition came
in for “just June if possible.” One card is the
application for membership to be hled with the
committee; the other, smaller, is a membership
card to fit the purse or wallet. From the first our
philosophy has been membership by application
through member or leader, followed by an invita—
tion to be guest for an evening. We believe this
gives opportunity for testing the congeniality of
what is offered on both sides. A genuine interest
in the group’s objectives is considered essential.
Financial statements at regular
committee meetings showed
occasional evening shortages
and the. necessity of advancing
based on the faith that the
coming evening would be bet-
ter than ever—and this faith
was always justified!

If. on September eighthI you should
find yourself within promenading dis-
tance of the clubhouse belonging to
American Legion Post No. I. Atlanta.
C-IveorgiaI you are cordially invited to
"swing round and take a little peek"

at Old Home Night which the Atlanta
Contry-Square Set will be holding.

. Next to music our most important and regular
expenditure was for “public relations.” Our
printed matter was confined to II” by 9” mimeo-
graphed bulletins done in brown on manila bond
and deckle—edged (hand torn). These philoso-
phized on the value of preserving these early
American traditions. Between four and five hun-
dred of these bulletins have been distributed to
date., It was agreed that a steady supply of these
and postage were justifiable items.

The decision that we should regard the group
as a workshop for the present was another sign
of growth.

We Are in Demand!

In the second half of the year'there were many
interesting requests from civic groups for profes-
sional services. A dinner dance announced “early
American fun” after dinner. There have been
Optimists’ Ladies’ Nights, P.T.A. early American
parties; a civic league staged a “Back to the Old
Days” party, and a company gave a president’s
party to employees. \Ve point with pride to the
Bible Class party whose leader chose American folk
games for its program following a Brunswick
stew dinner. This leader, a prominent manufac-
turing jeweler, was one of our earliest-and most
enthusiastic members. On all of these occasions
certain couples, invited by the leader to be guests
and share some of their skill through demonstra-
tion, have responded most cordially. The couples
have found these evenings fun and good additional
practice. They have, too, offered the best kind of
interpretation to the community.

On the Search Again

During these three fortunate weeks at the
Legion we could not stop looking for a home.
Kind friends continued to give leads—one-of
them, “go see the front room of the Library Bind-
ery.” It was a voyage of discovery for most of
us. As soon as we saw the low swung, red brick,
English cottage-style building with its flower boxes
and casement windows we know there were good

things inside. Tables, desks, and bookcases in the

. entrance hall were fine, dark
walnut, and the deep fireplace
added its own charm. The
meeting room we had come to
ask about was 30’ by 40’ with
beamed ceilings, wall book-
cases, and long window seats.
A fine oil painting of an old

312 “ROUND THAT COUPLE AND TAKE A LITTLE PEEK!” I

printer was on the far wall, and in the corner near
the entrance was a thirteenth century printing
press. Our genial host, Zack Haygood, the man-
ager, must have sensed our appreciation, for with
that dry humor we were to come to know, he said,
“Could you use it P” “C ould we!” was our only
answer.

This room, we found, had been provided by the
company with the thought of neighborhood use as
a branch library or for club meetings.

Again we cannot be too appreciative for gra-
cious courtesy. Here we found friendly, under-
standing interest in our need for! an unhurried
search for headquarters, and we were invited to
stay while our search continued. It was the best
time of the year to be there—the winter—with
books in all stages of making and the huge fire-
place welcoming us. There was added satisfaction
in the thought that many people who came as our
members or guests had never before visited the
Bindery which we had come to know as one of
the most intriguing spots on Peachtree Road.

The Search Ends

By spring we had located our present headquar-
ters and, we hope, home, in the Morningside Com-
munity Hut, the pride of the neighborhood’s Civic
League which sponsored the building four years
ago. Reading in the “Time and Place” column of
the Atlanta Journal of a meeting scheduled for
the Hut, two of us surveyed the possibilities. A
week later we were meeting there and feeling ex—
tremely happy over another huge fireplace and
beamed ceiling with a most attractive wagon wheel
chandelier in addition. Along with the daytime
groups that meet here, we pay our share, a very
nominal fee toward the upkeep. This money we
collect in a voluntary offering at each meeting.

Mores grow, along with terminology or vice
versa. In any event, we consider Tom, the janitor,
the first. For a square set party of parents at the
school Tom dispensed iced drinks most efficiently
with a well planned system of a galvanized tub
for ice and an improvised counter. A little ques-
tioning revealed a brother-in-law in the soft drink
business, and with this family connection Tom
thought “reg’lah dispensin’ ” would be fun. Since
then he has missed only one meeting. He has a

white coat now which his wife keeps well
laundered.

Then there are the Caldwells! I met “Dad”
first when he came to play me his tunes. I chanced
to ask whether Mrs. Caldwell played the piano

chord right smart, but hasn’t in a long sight.”
She, too, was heartily invited to come. With the
opening measures of that “Flop Eared Mule” and
her feeling for chords while her heels never missed
a. beat on the fioor, I knew we could begin qua—

- drilles and changes straightway.

with him. He told me, “Well, she used t’ could I

Since then I have heard the story of thei
“courtin’ ” on all-day sings in old Campbel
County. There have been ten little Caldwells,
eight of them living. 'The oldest, still at home,
we’ve come to appreciate as a driver who get
them there, whatever the car borrowed for th
occasion happens to be and wherever the place
Some of the girls have “come by” and have don
some “mighty purty singin’ to their Dad’s string-
in’ ”! “J.\ .” drives a grocery truck daytimes,
but his real love is his guitar, and we surely like
his strumming. With his dad and mother he
makes up our regular trio. All of them at one
time or another have given us some “close har-
mony” between sets. They are surely one string”
in’, singin’, swingin’ family! Best of all our tunes!
to date we favor Dad Caldwell’s “Flop Eared
Mule” and “Billy in the Low Ground.”

Our Favorite Dances

About the time the Caldwells joined us we had
become fairly smooth in rounds and contry’s. In
the first group “Make Known Your Choice” and
the excitingly accumulative “Shoo Fly Swing” are
great favorites. The_ last mentioned has almost
out-favorited “Shoo Fly Don’t Bother Me.” A
definite winner with the gentlemen has been Ten—

nessee’s “Shoot the Buffalo!”

Where the Hawk Shoots the Buzzard and the
Buzzard Shoots the Crow!
Rally in the Canebrake and Shoot the Buffalo!

But nothing seems to dampen the ardor for the
Virginia Reel, Sir Roger de Coverley style, as We
have always done it. “Alabama Gal” and “Scotch
Reel” have given us something to sing—“Ain’t We
rock candy, ain’t we rock candy, ain’t we roc'k
candy, Alabama Gal?”——and think about respec—
tively. “Gents” are still trying to figure out hOW
to pass back to back in the chasse while going in
opposite directions from their neighbors on either
side. It’s really quite simple!

The squares or quadrilles have brought us a
stream of interesting reactions from many sources.
They have interested all ages—novices, long-time
square dancers, and folks from other states, aS

(Continued on page 342)

Neenah Builds 3 Swimming Pool

HEN THE Indians gave to B y ARMIN H' QERHARDT is another shallow pool also en—
W Playground Director

Lake Winnebago, VVis- closed in a fence. All of the

consin, a name which Neenah High SCh°°l pools are surrounded by an outer
means “muddy waters,” they fence so that they may be readily
accurately described it, for in summer the water is supervised and the regulations can be easily en-
practically unlit for swimming. When, through forced.
the generosity of two leading citizens and the W ithin a few feet of the main pool are dressing
. action taken by the city and the federal govern- rooms, showers, and a foot bath through which all
ment in allocating funds it was made possible to swimmers must pass and be inspected before en-
build an outdoor swimming pool and a recreation tering the water. The girls’ dressing room has a
building, an urgent need was met. series of lockers with a main room in the middle
The pool is rectangular, of standard Olympic and a basket check room for the clothes. The
size, fifty meters long, and has seven swimming men’s dressing room, with the exception of the
I lanes. The diving pool at one end is twelve feet showers and basket, is open to the sun, making it
deep and has a standard one-meter board and also I, easy to disinfect. The water in the pool is put
a three-meter one. Opposite through a filter and a -fresh
the deep end is a wading pool _ supply is added as it is neces-
for children who cannot swim. The l°°aii°n 0f “"3 CiiY 0f Neenah- Wls‘ sary. The most modern clean-

A . - th- f th“ consin. on the shore of Lake Winnebago.
fence dlwdes 18 mm e did not insure good bathing beaches for
this important paper making center of

ing methods are used and the

deeper water to insure the water is tested daily. A staff

safety of children. For chil- '0'000 People. Coopera+ive effort how of life guards and helpers are

dren 0f pI‘CSChOOl age there everI has resulted in the provision of a ( C outinur’d on page 344)
swimming pool and recreation building.

 

313

l

Creative Music in the Recreational Manner

HE EDUCATIONAL values
of creative music have

been understood and
utilized by our teachers of
music. The recreational pos-
sibilities of creative music,
however, have as yet not
been realized. This may be
due to the fact that creative
music has been thought of as
a somewhat involved process
which could not be put into
effect unless ideal conditions
prevailed.

activity

What Is Creative Music?

A definition of creative music may be made as
broad as one wishes, but for the- sake of a definite
objective we shall define it here as simply making
a tune. A tune may be composed for itself alone,
for words, for a singing game or dance, for
melodic instruments, or for some other purpose.
Regardless of all other factors involved, we are
considering creative music as essentially the mak-
ing of a. tune. The elements of inspiration, imagi-
nation, feeling, intellect, originality, and a host of
other factors enter into the creative process. The
arousing of these elements obviously enriches the
experience and understanding of those who take
part in a creative enterprise. But in addition to
this development of a well-rounded personality
through creative activities, there is the social value
involved. Music is usually created by an indi-
vidual and, as a matter of fact, in the instance of

more advanced types of compositions, only an
individual skilled and gifted as a composer could

create such music. On the other hand, however,
folk songs frequently
come from untutored
groups of people.

Folk songs have been
oftremendous social sig-
nificance. Cecil Sharp,
the noted English folk-
lorist, expressed the
hope that the creation
of modern folk songs
would result from the B. 1 2 5 4

314

By SIEBOLT H. FRIESWYK
National Recreation Association

The writer believes that creative music
lends itself to group participa-
tion. and that it may be used infor-
mally for recreational purposes. This
article. accordingly. is devoted to a
discussion of ways of making creative
music a part of the recreational music
program. The plan outlined presupposes
an elementary knowledge of music on
the part of the leader, and it is in-
tended primarily tor boys and girls rang-
ing in age from eight to twelve years.

 

widespread singing of tradi-
tional folk songs. Whether.
his hopes were well founded
or not, the creation of new.
tunes, consciously or uncon-
sciously produced, is a worthy
objective of a group.

In the following pages an'
outline is presented of the
ways in which a leader or
teacher may stimulate inter-

est on the part of a group in
creating a tune.

Stimulating Interest in Melodies with Games

It is, first of all important that the boys and
girls take part in this activity through the use of
games intended to awaken certain impulses—
rhythmic and melodic. Once aroused to what
might be termed an “unconscious consciousness”
of the ingredients of every tune—melody and
rhythm—the leader can proceed to the actual
making of a tune by the group.

Throw me the ball. A rubber ball is held by a
boy or girl. The child sings a tune to the words
“Throw me the ball.” Another child, by raising
his hand, may have the ball thrown to him if he
can repeat the other 'child’s musical version of
“throw me the ball.” If successful, the second
child then creates his version of “Throw the the

ball.” (See A.)

NOTE: The leader should record all the phrases sung,
and later have the group repeat them together.

Telephone numbers. If the various degrees of
the scale are numbered, telephone numbers may
be identified with the respective pitches.

Four telephone numbers are called by various
children. They might be
5-3222, 5-2111, 2—6222,
5-31 I I. This melody
then would be written
out and sung, words
being added if desired.
The rhythmic meter
might be suggested by
the group or the teacher.
The teacher will have
to guide in the right

election of numbers giving the best tune. Some
xperimentation has a good effect. (See B.)

Street calls and nature songs. The group may
e asked to recall what the peddler, newspaper
y, rag picker, and other street hawkers cry when
hey pass by. This question has brought forth

any unexpected bits of folk melody wherever it
as been asked. These melodies, after having been
ung by an individual, may be repeated until
earned by the group. Nature has its songs also.
irds, dripping water, the wind, make marvelous

nes.

Stretching tunes. This game is a competitive
ne. Two teams or sides are quickly formed by
ividing any group as evenly as possible. A mem—
er of the first side sings one note at any pitch.

member of the second team repeats the first
itch and adds one note more. The competing
eams continue to add single tones until one of the
ides fails to repeat the stretched tune accurately.

or a group of twenty boys and
irls a winning score of five may
e made, the winning points go—
-ng to the side repeating the added
ones accurately. The “stretched
une” should be recorded by the
eader, and sung in its entirety.

Finding "do" or "la." The key-
ote of any major scale is known
5 a movable “do,” and a “la” of
= relative minor key. Whatever
ystem is used, the important
hing in this game is to hear the
eynote of a tune or series of
armonies. A phrase is played,
lie group listens, they sing what
hey believe is the keynote. This
. elps them indirectly to become
ware of a focal point or possible
adence for melodies. Familiar
unes may be used. The keynote
f America in G is “G,” the key-
. ote of C# minor prelude of
l' achmaninof’f is C#. Boys and

irls can get experience hearing
his by finding “do.”

i Musical Bingo. By using the
' ame number system as was de-
r'\ cribed in Telephone numbers to
repare bingo cards, and a bag of
beans, or its equivalent, this game
an be quite interesting and ex—

 

CREATIVE MUSIC IN THE RECREATIONAL MANNER 315

citing. The game is conducted as follows: Cards
and beans are passed out, numbers are called out,
and the first person filling a horizontal or diagonal
line of numbers cries “bingo.” His card is then
taken by the leader, and the whole groups sings
the tune indicated by the numbers, reading each
line of numbers from top to bottom. The first
person getting five tunes wins. The leader may
ask the group to prepare its own cards or prepare
them himself in advance. A group of twenty
cards given here may be used. (See illustration
on this page.)

Tuned Tumblers. A set of tuned tumblers or some
other simple melodic instrument which may be
struck is set before the: boys and girls. One of the
group comes forward to strike a series (haphaz—
ard) of tones. This series is taken up by the
group, sung, developed rhythmically, and possible
words added. The haphazard striking of notes
should gradually be led into a more thoughtful,

Chart 'For' Musical. Bingo

 

316 CREATIVE MUSIC IN THE RECREATIONAL MANNER

studied series of tunes. It is important, however,
for the leader not to expect the group to make this
studied series of tones right at the start.

Stimulating Interest in Rhythm with Games
"He Can Do Little Who Can't Do This." This

may be played as an elimination game. Boys and
girls are seated in a circle,'one child holding a
long stick. The boy or girl with the stick says,
“He can do little who can’t do this,” and with his
right hand taps a rhythm on the floor which he
must be able to repeat. He then passes the stick
on to the next person with his left hand. All
succeeding members of the circle who discover
the fact that the stick is passed on with the left
hand need not take part except to help make the
game clear to those who have not discovered the
secret. This is a rather difficult bit of detection
for boys and girls, but the teacher or leader may
be able to make the game more obvious by exag-
gerating the passing of the stick with the left hand.

Typical rhythms which this game provokes are:

24 LEJ‘IUyDlt
66 LUMID

These rhythms should be recorded by the
teacher and taken up later for closer observation
and development into larger patterns. These larger
patterns have their basis in repetition, but varia-
tions should be encouraged.

KnockI Knock! Who's There? This game evokes

personality traits of the boys and girls in a rather
subtle manner. Several boys and girls come to the
door and knock in characteristic ways. Mary

W LE"

mg mgr
°|rrl°n-

   
    
   
  
   
  

knocks timidly. (See A.) John knocks boldly, a
in B; Jean knocks impatiently. (See C.) Pete
doesn’t knock, he pounds. (See D.) Those wh
have demonstrated their individual knocks leav
the room, close the door, and one of them knocks
Those who are left in the room try to guess wh
the “knocker” is.

Rhythm Detector. Rhythms taken from familia
tunes or suggesting certain actions such as run
ning, fiying, bouncing may be played withou
melody while the boys and girls identify them
The melody may be added later.

Percussion Orchestra. The rhythm band whic
is, of course, a percussion orchestra offers th
group a chance to make their own orchestrations.

Rhythms with fingers. tists. knucklesI feet or tom-
tom. Let one of the boys and girls create a rhythi
with fingers to describe rain falling, or little fe
running. Fists may describe the rhythm of a
elephant waltz, or tired workmen plodding home
knuckles, the rhythm of prancing steeds or ham-
mers pounding boards; feet, the tramp, tramp of
soldiers; tom-tom, the exotic dancing rhythm of
primitives. All these should be recorded by th
leader, shown, and explained.

When an interest has been aroused in bot?
melody and rhythm through the use of some 0
the games which have been suggested and a feeling
of participation has been achieved, the next and
most important step -can be taken; namely, the
writing of a song to words. Although the singin
of fine traditional songs is vitally important to t
development of a sense of beauty, form, and ex-
pression, in the opinion of the author boys and
girls should not sing songs at the creative music
period. For such singing may result in a rather
slavish imitation of the songs just sung or it may
give rise to an unfortunate comparison. The sing-
ing of folk songs at any other time, however, will
be of immeasurable benefit and pleasure.

Setting Poems to Music

One of the most direct ways to conduct this
part of the creative music program follows: A
number of poems which have been brought to the
meeting are recited or read, and their titles are
written on the blackboard. After all of the poems
have been presented, a vote is taken. The poem
which proves most popular is then to be set t0
music.

   
 
   
    

Let us say that Tea Time by Malvine Morton
has been selected. The words now written out

completely are:
The four o’clocks have opened.
It must be time for tea.
Hark! there go the silver bells
A-ringing merrily.
Here come the woodland fairies
They’re dressed in cobweb lace.
Go dust the mushroom cushions
And tidy up the place.
Fill up the golden buttercups
With honey dew sublime
And pass the rose-leaf cookies.
It’s fairies own tea-time.

The poem is recited by all, the rhythm being
stressed. Now we are ready to set the words of
the first line to music. Several suggestions for
' the tune are made, and the best one is selected;
succeeding lines are added as the song grows. It
will be seen that the poem helps to form the
melody. Here is the first product of our group
creation written down on the board by the boys

and girls.

-Now that the tune has been completed, it can
be sung and memorized. '

It is also possible to have the boys and girls
write their own poems before or after the tune has
been written. Safety songs, play songs, songs of
the seasons, or other occasions may be a source of
inspiration. Is it the wish for such a song that is
the source of inspiration?

Adding to the knowledge of song writing. The
leader, during the course of his work with the
boys and girls, may gradually add to their tech—

 

for tea. Hark! 771612.90 the silver bolts «1- ringan merri-

lace. 90 dud: the. mushroom cush— ions and It'ch up the

  

blame, and Bass the r0542 lent: cookies. It's Eras own tea. time.

CREATIVE MUSIC IN THE RECREATIONAL MANNER 317

nical knowledge by illustrating how songs may be
analyzed. Terms such as motive, phrase, extended
phrase, sentence, repetition, variation, balance,
rise and fall of melody, cadence, the singing of
one note for each syllable, or the singing of sev-
eral different tones to the syllable, should be
briefly illustrated. "

Harmonizing the tunes. The leader should oc—_
casionally harmonize the tunes or make a suitable
accompaniment. There are three general types of
accompaniment,_ i. e., the straightforward har—
monization, the rhythmic accompaniment, and the
accompaniment which is melodically independent
of the tune. The simple harmonization will be the
one most frequently used by the leader.

Recording tunes. The leader may use regular
notation, the sol-fa, or number systems in taking
down rhythm and melody.

It is hoped that those who are group leaders
and have an elementary knowledge of music will
attempt to introduce creative music to their boys
and girls. They will find it a pleasure and
one giving unusual and welcome results.

In his book, Creative M usic in the H ome.
Satis Coleman stresses the importance to
the child, in his creative experience, of
making musical instruments. “A real inti—
macy with some kind of musical instru-
ment is necessary before a child can be
free to express musical feeling with his
hands. One who builds an instrument for
himself is laying the foundation for that
intimacy and for free creative expression
in music. The making of the instrument is
a building process, but the creative experi—
ence of making a melody to play on this
instrument follows naturally. There are all
degrees of creativity, and the sincere mel-
ody—making of a child is as truly creative
on its own level as is the composition of
the greatest symphony on its higher level.

“The child who can make an instrument—be it
ever so simple—and then make a melody of his
own to play upon it, has experienced a joy that he
will wish to have repeated. It is to be expected
that some of the results will be crude, especially at
first; but if a taste of creative joy in handling the
materials of music can enlist an interest heretofore
denied, and give an impetus toward exploration in
the art, does it matter how crude those first sounds
may be ?”

 

It's an interesting story—
lhaf of the return of the
children of Three Forks'
MontanaI to the old swim-
min' hole. And it's vividly
told by Kenneth Mulhol-
landl who is WPA Adult
Education Supervisor at
Butte. Montana.

Reviving the Old Swimmin’ l-lole

FREE RIDE on a fire engine every day! And a
A chance to go swimming in the old swimmin’
hole! That’s what summer has meant to the
children of Three Forks, Montana, ever since the
recreation director set up a swimming program in
1939. And even the parents who take a ride out
to “watch” the children often return prepared to
join in the fun.

Swimming in the “hole” had always been a
popular sport with people of all ages in this little
Western city until a few years ago. Then one day
an eight year old boy slipped away from home and
went swimming. He never came back alive. And
from that time on the parents of Three Forks re-
fused to permit their children to swim.

But one midsummer day in 1939 was unusually
hot. The July sun beat down on an unshaded play-
ground. A dozen or more youngsters panted rather
than played through the heat wave. They wanted
a swimming pool. The city of Three Forks with
its population of 884 was considering a municipal
pool, but that was for the future, and the heat was
an immediate problem.

Then some of the children remembered the old
swimming hole a couple of miles northeast of

318

town, just below the Jefferson River Bridge. The
older boys and their folks before them had been
there. \Vhy couldn’t they? And as the heat wave
continued it became more and more necessary to
have a “cooling off” activity if recreation in Three
Forks was to survive that summer.

Don Jellison, then WPA recreation leader and
acting recreation supervisor, decided to investigate
the swimming hole. He found clear water, a
moderate current, sandy banks, a maximum depth
of six feet, a minny pool, brush for dressing
rooms, and trees for shade. These findings were
outlined and plans for a supervised swimming pro-
gram was presented to the Coordinating Council.

The Council approved and began a search for
ways and means of carrying out the program.
Transportation was needed, so the city furnished
the vehicle—a fire truck, not the new one, but a

_real-fire-red one with a brass trimmed engine and

gasoline to fuel it. The director, who was also a
village fireman, was charged with driving the chil-
dren over the two and two—tenths miles through
Old Town, the original settlement of Three Forks,
and then on to the old swimming hole.

The news traveled like wild fire when children

 

realized they were to have a ride on a fire engine
and a swim every day. At I :30 on the first day
the fire truck drew up at the Three Forks play-
ground with its glinty—copper chemical tanks shin-
ing in the sun. The excited children piled on and
the tiniest tot was put in the hoseless hose basket
for the ride. A second stop was made at the
Consolidated School house, a third at Old’ Town,
then off they went to the pool at fifteen miles an
hour, maximum speed.

All swimming was to be supervised by a regis—
tered Life Guard, and each child had brought the
following release signed by his parents. The signed
forms made up the roll call and assured the leader

and council that the parents were informed.

Dear Parents:
The summer swimming program is under way and
it will be necessary that a release be signed before
~your child may attend the program." This release will
relieve the Recreation Department of all responsi—
bility of accidents which might occur.
Accidents will be prevented if possible and the swim-
ming will be supervised by a registered life guard.
DONALD JELLISON,
Recreation Director
Three Forks, Montana
I shall not hold the Recreation Department, United
States Government,
C it y o f T h r e e
F o r k s, o r t h e
School Board re-
sponsible for any
accidents while my
child . . . . . . . . . . . .
is attending the
swimming pro-
gram.

 

Parent’s
Signature

Fire-fighting
equipment has now
been crowded out
of the truck and
over-hanging seat
planks substituted.
Originally two or
three trips were
made each day, but
quota cuts have
reduced the lead-
e r ’ s s t a ff a n d
chauffering time
for this activity so
all must now go
on one trip. But

REVIVING THE OLD SWIMMIN’ HOLE 319

the children don’t mind. During a supervisory
visit last summer, one Huck Finn pointed to a
space the size of a dime on one of the cross
planks. “Look,” he yelled, “all this room, and they
complain about it being crowded!”

Operation of the activity takes two hours each
summer day, according to Tom Jenkins, the most
recent leader furnished to the community. Before
lunch time the fire engine is run out to the play-
ground and parked in the shade of the shelter
house. The children in the neighborhood get in
when they’re ready. At I :30 the driver runs the
truck slowly to the school where more pack in.
The smaller ones are put in the middle. At Old
Town other youngsters climb on and usually three
or four older boys volunteer to stand on the run-
ning board for the rest of the trip.

A stop is made at the bridge to let the children
off. They must not move until the truck comes to
a full stop. Then away they dash to dress, boys
to the left, girls to the right. The empty truck is
driven on over the bridge, turned around and
returned to its parking place at the roadside. By
this time the children are ready for a dip, and they
don’t waste much time!

(Continued on page 345)

 

 

Spokane’s Playground Baseball School

HE SPOKANE Baseball

School, admittedly an ex—

periment in the summer of
1940, will open its second sea-
son this June as one of the
most popular and worth-While
activities of the Spokane Rec-
reation Department. In 1941,
the Baseball School will func-
tion for two full months and
will provide instruction for
about 2,500 young Americans
between the ages of twelve and
seventeen years. This instruction will be furnished
by experts at absolutely no cost to the students
themselves.

In 1930 baseball in the public grade schools of
Spokane was abolished because of expense and the
fear that accidents might occur. Soon afterward,
baseball in the parks of the city was discontinued
for the time being because of the growing popu—
larity of softball. For ten seasons the national
game was kept alive only by the high school teams
of the city and a few semi-pro groups.

In 1939 there was a growing demand that base-
ball be given more consideration. Many parents
and public school pupils were demanding some
chance for the boys of Spokane to play baseball
again.

The time for action arrived in the spring of
1940. A group of public-spirited citizens, work-
ing with the Recreation Department, decided to
give baseball another chance. What followed is a
fine example of civic cooperation and efficiency.

First the Recreation Department of the Park
Board set aside hve city play areas for the use of
baseball. Then they arranged for two veteran
baseball men, Art Walther and Neil McKain, to
act as directors of the program. The full details of
the organization and program of the school were
left in their hands. Financial aid was needed, for
the funds of the Recreation Department were
limited. At this point the B.O.F. Lodge of Spo-
kane stepped in. For some time the large mem-
bership of this lively organization had been seek-
ing a worth-while youth project. The proposed
baseball school seemed the right thing. The lodge
underwrote the total cost of the first year’s activity,
and has agreed to continue.

320

By S. G. WITTER

Recreation Director
Spokane. Washington

The amazing success of the baseball
school held last summer in Spokane
led a number of cities and towns in
the vicinity to ask: "What is a base-
ball school? How does it operate?
What is its purpose?" The answers
to these and other questions will be
of interest to playgrounds everywhere.

Further help came throug ‘
the voluntary cooperation o
the Spokane Indians, Spokane’
franchise holder in the \Vest
ern International League. Th
Indians helped in several ways
They sent players to the vari
ous playgrounds from time t ‘
time to lecture to the boys an; I
give demonstrations. They fur-
nished a large number of base-
balls to the school. Finally,
they admitted once each week
to the Indians’ home games each boy who that
week had had perfect attendance at the Baseball
SchooL

During the month of June 1940, approximately
1,000 boys were enrolled in the school. The aver-
age attendance was one week for each student.
Some boys followed the school from place to
place, playing every day for the month the school
was in operation. Boys came to Spokane from a
hundred miles away to get the instruction offered.
Some communities near-by sent full teams from
time to time to benefit from the’ work.

Classes were run from nine o’clock in the morn-
ing until noon, and from one o’clock to five. Each
class lasted from one and one-half to two hours.
The ideal class proved to be about fifty boys.
Actually, 200 boys were often on hand for the
various sessions. ’

Fundamentals of the game were emphasized.
Hitting, bunting, running bases, sliding, throw-
ing, and playing the different positions on a base-
ball team were stressed. Instruction included
lectures as well as demonstrations. When possi-
ble, each class period ended with a practice game
of from fOUr to seven innings. In these games
pupils were expected to practice what they had
been told.

Before the school actually began, the promoters
had some misgivings. Would the boys of Spokane
really respond? Over 200 appeared for the first
class on the first day. There were always more
boys present than the directors had intended to
handle. Boys didn’t even want to quit playing long
enough for lunch! Would injuries be numerous
or serious? Because of careful supervision there

(Continued on page 341)

   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   

The America We Defend

ACED WITH an unprece-
dented national emer-
gency and a steadily ex—

panding defense program,
more than 1,000 delegates to
the National Recreation Con—
gress will convene in Balti-
more, Maryland, on Septem-
ber 29 for the twenty-sixth
annual round table on recre-
ation. Only forty miles from
the nation’s capital, they will
devote five days to new and
urgent leisure-time prob-
lems under a down-to-earth
t‘heme which belongs peculi-
arly to 194I—The America
We Defend.

Volunteer and profes-

sional workers in forty-
eight states are already out-

lining local recreation problems which they will
bring to the council tables of this history-making
Congress. Foremost on the calendar this year will
be the need for providing defense recreation along

Q

 

MARK McCLOSKEY

 

PAUL V. McNUTT

with the normal activities in
a community program.
Delegates will attend seven
general sessions and more
than forty discussion meet-
ings. They will listen to fed—
eral officials, local and pri-
vate recreation leaders, edu-
cators, and lay men. Heading
the list of public officials
who will discuss emergency
recreation is Paul V. Mc-
Nutt, Coordinator of Health,
\Velfare and Related De-
fense Activities and Ad-
ministrator of the Federal
Security Agency. From Mr.
McNutt’s staff also will
come Charles P. Taft, As—
sistant Coordinator, and
Mark McCloskey, Director

of the Division of Recreation.

Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr of Union Seminary, New
York City, will sound the keynote of morale—for-
defense when he makes an appeal for “Mobilizing

 

CHARLES P. TAFT

321

322

the Spiritual Power of
Democracy.” Vassar’s
President, Henry Noble
MacCracken, will make
a return address at
popular request. His
“Recreation and Better
Human Relations” will
be remembered as a
highlight of the 1940
Congress.

Emergency recreation
will take the spotlight
on Monday at the all-
day conference on lei-
sure-time planning for
defense. Members of
local committees, de-
fense councils, recrea-
tion boards, federal and
state officials will ex-
change information and

experience on the problem of recreation in com-
munities near military training camps and defense '
production centers. In general session and con-
ference groups the nation’s recreation leaders will
devote a day of intensive study to the commu-
nity’s responsibility to the boy in uniform and the

defense worker and his
family.

Most of the Congress
time will again be de-
voted to discussion meet-
ings on specific phases
of recreation. Special
series of meetings are
being planned in the
fields of industrial,
rural and church recre—
ation, housing, and ac-
tivities for girls and
women. Emphasis will
be laid on the role of
the lay man with a
series of meetings plan-
ned for local board
members.

Sessions throughout
the week will stress the
p u bl i c morale-building
values of recreation as
well as specific defense
services. Delegates will

THE AMERICA WE DEFEND

 

Dr. HENRY NOBLE MacCRACKEN

 

Dr. REINHOLD NIEBUHR

exchange opinions and
experiences on a wide
range of topics—school
recreation, programs for
colored groups, joint
planning of public and
private agencies, play in
institutions, music and
the crafts in building*
morale, drama and folk
dancing, recreation
training and personnel
standards, athletics and
sports, nature recrea-
tion, camping, commu-
nity centers, and home
play.

Recreation will come
into its own at the eve-
ning general sessions
when part of the pro-
gram will be devoted to

social recreation and all-Congress folk dancing.
Special events, tours, and demonstrations will keep
delegates busy during the afternoons, and Thurs-
day afternoon has been left free so that special
meetings or continuations of previous discussions
can be arranged. Meetings of the Society of Rec-

reation Workers of I
America are being
scheduled for Sunday
afternoon and evening,
September 28, because
of the special defense
recreation conference on
Monday. Sessions begin
at 2:30 P. M. A special
luncheon and business
meeting of the Society
will be held on Thurs-
day, October 2.
Between meetings and
conferences, Congress
visitors from forty-
eight states will explore
historic Baltimore, now
seventh largest city in
the United States. Al-
though modern and pro-
gressive, this famous
coastal city still retains
its colonial traditions

(Continued on page 340)

Recreation in Defense Industry Communities

Summary of a conference held in the
office of Paul V. McNutt, July ll, l94l

By MARK MCCLOSKEY
Directorl Recreation Division
Office of the Coordinator

 

unions, can be depended upon to

OUND-THE-CLOCK community
R do their part in making these fa-

leisure—time activities, paral-

  
   
  
  
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  

leling and complementing the
wenty—four hour schedule of de-
ense industry, was emphasized as a prime need
t a conference on Recreation in Defense Industry
ommunities held in July in the office of Paul V.
' chutt, Coordinator of Health, Welfare and Re-
ated Defense Activities. The meeting, with
harles P. Taft, Assistant Coordinator, as chair—
ian, brought together representatives of labor,
ndustry, national voluntary organizations, and
*ederal agencies concerned in meeting the leisure-
ime needs of workers.

en in our armed forces, but certainly of equal
mportance,” Mr. McNutt called this problem in
pening the discussion. “Without relaxation and
hange,” he continued, “workers naturally become
issatisiied. Morale, productive activity and health
re threatened—and that is something national de-
I ense cannot afford.” Mr. McNutt read a letter
f greeting from Secretary of Labor Frances
erkins, which said:

“In the midst of pressure for defense prodUC-
ion this conference offers welcome opportunity to
focus attention on recreation as a prime essential
0 morale among workers. All workers need relief
from the strains and stresses of exacting tasks;
hey require relaxation and recreation—nothing
elaborate—a simple activities and entertainment.
Within working hours some of these needs have
been met by forward—looking employers. But for
after work, other needs must be met through
public and commercial facilities for wholesome
diversion, either free or at a small cost” . . . “For
the constructive use of leisure time,” the Secre-
tary’s letter continued, “the community, particu—
larly in this crisis, must share responsibility. While
good housing, nutritious food, and suitable cloth-
- ing are elementary necessities
in building and maintaining
morale among workers, ample
provision is also essential for
I recreation. Workers, both in—.
.' dividually and through their

“Not so glamorous as entertaining the young

Mr.McC|osl<ey will welcome comments
and suggestions on the resolutions
presented at the conference. as well
as any other material readers of the
summary may wish to send in to him.

cilities available.”

The conferees agreed that “a
town with three—shift industries can’t go on living
a one-shift social life.” It was pointed out that
this applies to eating places; to services in indus-
trial plants, such as nrst aid stations; to commer-
cial amusements, including motion picture thea—
ters and bowling alleys; and to facilities for social
contacts and for loanng, reading, and listening to
the radio as well as to what is ordinarily thought
of as community recreation—swimming, tennis
and softball. Towns which have already recog— -
nized this and adjusted their lives accordingly
were cited as examples of what can be done:

A wide diversity in the people concerned, as
well as in their hours of leisure, was noted.
Women and girls, thousands of them living away
from home, represent one group whose needs are
urgent. Unattached men, working men and women
with families, and the children of defense work-
ers all have an important place in the picture.

Housing emerged as a major factor in the rec~
reation problem. As instances of how defense in-
dustry affects population, even in large established
industrial cities, Col. James Waring, Chief, Plant
Location Section of the Office of Production
Management, described the impact of increased
production on various kinds of communities.

Housing and the provision of play space were
linked as a single problem not only for the pro-
tection of children but for the health and welfare
of weary defense workers. From several com-
munities with three~shift industries came reports
that men on night shifts are deprived of neces—
sary daytime sleep because of the noise of children
playing throughout a congested neighborhood.
Another factor, stressing the need for play pro-
vision in residence areas, is that of transportation;
workers who live at a distance
from their jobs and from town
want recreation opportunities
near their homes.

As one major step toward
meeting these problems, the

323

324 RECREATION IN DEFENSE INDUSTRY COMMUNITIES“

conference recommended additional consideration
of recreation needs in connection with new hous-
ing projects, particularly those under Federal
auspices. These, it was felt, should include ade-
quate indoor and outdoor provisions for preschool
and school children and their mothers, for youth,
and for adult workers, both men and women.

In comparing recreational provision for men in
military service and for defense workers, it was
pointed out that the wage—differential between en—
listed men and the thousands of young unskilled
and semi-skilled men and girls in industry is not
actually so. great as some people assume. The
soldier, who gets maintenance and clothing as well
as pay, may not have so much less than the lower—
paid industrial workers to spend on recreation.
Both need community provision for free and low-
cost amusements.

In answer to the question as to what defense
workers want in the way of
recreation, informal social
contacts, “spectator” partici-
pation in sports and enter-
tainments, and opportunities
for continuing education were
rated at least as high as ath—
letics and active play.

Play provisions for chil—
dren and adolescents must
also be reoriented, it was
agreed. This need is most urgent for children in
homes where all adults are employed and family
supervision is limited, for those who must be safe-
guarded against various kinds of exploitation, and
for those affected by the impact of defense on
schools and housing.

Following the Conference, the committee ap-
pointed by Mr. Taft drew up for further con—
sideration the following seven-point resolution:

I.‘ The morale needs of the defense program
demand that adequate recreation for
children and adults be provided.

2. In marshaling the total recreational re-
sources of the community, it is essential,
that the municipality take the lead and
discharge its responsibility from public
funds. "

3. Over—all planning for recreation by all'
groups concerned, including public and
private agencies, industries, unions and
leading citizens, is necessary in each com-
munity.

"We are committed to the sound policy
that leisure must complement labor.
And that commitment entails an obli-
gation to see that hours off duty can
also be well spentl freely spent' with-
out regimentation but with ample oppor-
tunity for all the varied activities in
which the up-and-coming young people of
the I940's are legitimately interested.'I

Paul V. M cN utt

4. Commercial recreation interests should be
encouraged to explore further the possi-
bilities of providing desirable recreation.

5. All housing projects should include recre-
ation facilities and leadership for children
and adults as an essential part of their
development.

6. Every effort should be made to awaken
public recognition of the necessity for ade-
quate recreation.

7. In addition to whatever they might do for
their own plants, industries—employers
and employees—should have a responsi-
bility for the promotion of adequate com—
munity recreation.

 

“Recreation deals with a kind of activity that l
is engaged in without compulsion and usual]
brings immediate and direct satisfaction to th
participant. . . . “Industria
recreation” is a phrase that
locates recreation in a spe-l
cific area of living. In short,
it deals with satisfying ac!
tivities carried on for, 0r|
promoted by, employees in
the numerous lines of busi—
ness endeavor. These recre-
ation activities range from
such passive types as stamp
collecting or chess to the more vigorous types.
such as basketball, baseball and the like. They
should include activities which may be classilie
as physical, social, cultural, and outing types 0
recreation activities.

I"PI—«L-

“Furthermore, the current use of the phrase in—
dicates a felt need for recreation activities in in-
dustries. This need has been steadily increasing
during the last decade. In the early days of the
industrial revolution, recreation for the worker
was not considered important because of occupa-
tional specialization. Long hours of work left lit-
tle or no time for leisure. Much progress has
been made in industry since the beginnings of the
industrial revolution. As a result of scientific
management, the invention of machines, and con-
sequent shorter hours, the laboring man and man—
agement have been confronted with the problem
of the constructive use of leisure time.”——Extracts
from the report of a study made by Purdue Uni-
versity entitled “Industrial Recreation, Its De-
velopment and Present Status.”

Play Day
at the

Great WhiteiSands

By EMMA HAWK BRISCOE

   

a play day l” Yes, and there could be many

more on New Mexico’s famous play-
ground, the White Sands National Monument just
fourteen miles from Alamogordo. In the natural
amphitheater with only sand beneath and sky over-
head, the spirit of play truly reigns. The Sands,
iwhich are really not sand at all but are pure
gypsum, not only provide a perfect playground
but are also becoming a number one tourist
attraction.

Begun in 1935 as somewhat of an experiment,
the annual spring play day has become an event
looked forward to not only by the people of Otero
County but by those of surrounding counties as
well. School people, Monument officials, and the
Alamogordo Chamber of Commerce cooperate,
with the result that each year those attending play
day feel it more successful than the year before.

Beginning with a series of athletic events at the
first play day, the program has grown into a pag—
. eant in which many types of recreation form the
episodes. The day selected is usually around the
first part of April, for then it is neither too cold
nor too warm. Last year April eighth proved a
most pleasant day. By ten o’clock many cars had
wound their way through the Monument entrance,
l picturesque in itself with its Pueblo Indian archi—
' tecture, over the hard sand surface road eight
miles into the heart of the Sands.

The forenoon was spent in softball, both girls’
and boys’ teams playing in their respective
brackets. Last year a marble tournament and a
' horseshoe pitching contest were added.‘Through-
out the day the emphasis was placed upon the
spirit of play rather than on the competitive factor.
Events were announced from a public address
system, making it very easy to handle the large

N OVER FOUR THOUSAND children and adults at

 

A most unusual setting for a'play day
is provided by the White Sands Na-
tional Monument in New Mexico. with
its I76.000 acres of snow-white sand
dunes from thirty to seventy-five feet

high. Here the school children of Otero
County each year hold their play day.

crowd. Spontaneous play as children rolled in and
piled sand to their hearts’ content could be seen
throughout the day. At noon, lunches were spread
here and there, for there Was no limit to choice
places. Sandwiches, cold drinks, ice cream, and
good water were available. Old-timers who had.
been in the county thirty years or more had special
headquarters.

After lunch came the more directed program.
Tumbling exercises from the New Mexico School
for the Blind at Alamogordo were new to many.

’ Then came the fun races. Sack races, balloon

races, three-legged races and others were entered
into by those who wished.

Outstanding among the events and offering
variety to the program was the drill and concert
by the Alamogordo school bands. These, consist-—
ing of over one hundred members in uniforms of
orange with black and white, were a delightful
picture in the great white bowl.

During the afternoon, the State Superintendent
of Public Instruction, Mrs. Grace Corrigan,
greeted the crowd as so did Gov. John E. Miles
and former Gov. Clyde Tingley both of whom
Hew from Santa Fé.

Just before the sun went down, the school chil-
dren from the rural schools, many of them from
distant mountain districts, added the most appeal-

(Continued on page 338)
325

Rejuvenating Old Man River

n'ERs HAVE played an im-
R portant role in the his-
tory of America, the
gateway that brought the ex—
plorer, the missionary and
the conqueror inland. “Rivers
of America,” a fascinating
series of books of popular
demand, “designed by the late
Constance Lindsay Skinner
to be a literary rather than a
historical series, a saga of the people‘ rather than
the river itself,” influenced the choice of the Vin—
cennes, Indiana, Public Library in its annual va-
cation reading project, particularlyisince one of
the books in the series, the “\Vabash,” offered the
Library a continuity in its historical program pro—
vided for the children each twelve months.

Fort Sackville, upon the banks of the Wabash,
had been the setting of a colorful pageant, the
scene of the enactment of a great drama “where
the shape and size of the United States were de—
termined.” The Library endeavored to recreate the
charm of other days. River life along the Wa—
bash was depicted in all its glory, for “Steamboat

By JANE KITCHELL "
Librarian

Vincennes Public Library

Landlubbers took to the water
last year when the Vincennes
Public Library presented its
vacation reading proiect

days were romantic, travel
was adventure and great
cities were built where steam-
boats touched.”

'An intimate study was
made of the packets which
plied the river, these floating
palaces which have become
milestones in the march of
progress. Four boats, the
Rambler, Vigo, Tobacco’s
Son, and the “filling raced to a iinish and once
again was heard,

“Chris Green and the Betsy Anne, had a race,
And the Green threw water, in Betsy’s Face.”

Stovepipe hats for the boys, bonnets for the
girls, made from cardboard, were presented at the
time of registration. Shining black toppers soon
made their appearance and poke bonnets took on
much color from mother’s discarded ribbons and
flowers. Each Saturday morning a shrill whistle'
announced the excursion, tickets for which were
secured through the week from the number of
books read. Deck chairs were at quite a premium
on more than one occasion. Captains, pilots, and

 

REJUVENATING OLD JUAN RIVER 327

roustabouts were an—
nounced for the most
books read, best reports,
and honorable mention.
Gayly decorated carpet
bags made from coffee
sacks were given for the
best book reports. Cast-
aways were dealt with
according to their misde—
meanors, a copied book
report calling for the
severest penalty.

Once again could be
heard the pilot calling the
river soundings. A large
gauge was placed in the
children’s room, the num-
ber of books read determining the depth. (Three
hundred registered a foot.) Newspapers carried
publicity of the flood stage, “Wabash rising at a
rapid rate, highest in all its history. Predict crest
not later than July 29th,” (at which time the
project closed).

Privately owned boats, among them the Mer-
cedes, were offered by kind citizens for a real ride
upon the Wabash as a reward to the diploma win-
ners. Old Man River evidently resented the com-
’ petition for he became sullen, the corners of his

—_— -

mouth went down, down a few weeks before the
promised boat ride, and absolutely refused to rise
above I.4 feet, reading of the present moment,
cheating the children, but the promise still holds

' good!
All Parent-Teachers Associations of the city
? joined the Library Book Week in a Showboat.
The children passed through the audience, using a
gangplank which had been built from the stage
through the center of the room. Unique and
clever costumes were displayed, even hoops. From
backstage could be heard the old-time calliope

(records played on a graphophone), snatches of
F songs, and shuinng feet.

The stage was set with flying flags and deck
chairs for 350 diploma winners. The Captain’s
box was occupied by Robert

, Inman, who had scored the
j highest honors, and Anna

Library as the Pilot. The
floating palaces towed up and
down the rivers in the early
’70’8 gave some stirring per-

"Our children's books guard the tu-
Speth from the North Branch ture. You need not distrust these
books: they are not regimented. be-
cause within the covers peace and hap-
piness and dreams more powerful than
armies have withdrawn to await their

day." — May Lamberton Becker.

 

Storytelling time—and the children are on
hand to report on the books they have read

forniances of “East Lynne,” “Tempest and Sun-
shine,” “Ten Nights in the Bar Room,” and many
other old favorites, followed by a vaudeville,
jokes, and dancing and singing.

In keeping with the nation-wide observance of
the 500th Anniversary of Printing, Douglas C.
McMurtrie’s book Wings for Words, the story of
Johann Gutenberg and his invention of printing,
was presented. The center of the stage was 0c-
cupied by a replica of the printing press Abraham
Lincoln saw in the ofhce of the Western Sun on
March 6, 1829, when the Lincoln family migrated
from Indiana to Illinois and passed through Vin-
cennes on that date. The fascinating life of
Johann Gutenberg of the I 5th century was por-
trayed around the old press, showing how his
dream, which gave “wings to words,” was finally
realized. This part of the program was concluded
with a quiz, an informative discussion conducted
by Timmy Garrigus, the news editor, short con-
cise information in which a number of children
took part, pertaining to the history of printing and
the great benefits of the press.

A short intermission followed in which the
Captain demonstrated the art
of ballyhoo. The showboat was
concluded With a vaudeville
sketch which consisted of the
singing of “On the Banks of
the Wabash” and “01’ Man
River,” tap dancing, the un-

(Continued on page 338)

A State-Wide Publicity Campaign

LWAYS in the back of
A the mind of a real
recreation executive

is the problem ofacquaintj
ing the supposedly inter-
ested public and the sup-
posedly interested taxpayer
with the benefits of the

public recreatlon program.

So, when to the attention

of some of the members of the Public Recreation
Association of New Jersey came the program of
the New Jersey District of Kiwanis International,
there seemed to be a real opportunity to spread
the gospel of public recreation in a real and ef-
fective way.

For the year 1941, the program of the seventy
clubs in the New Jersey district includes a special
state-wide program each month dedicated to “The
American \Vay.” Early starters in this set-up in-
cluded the clergy, the press, the bar, the Medical
Association, the schools, labor, private enterprise,
capital, and the farmer. Some of the recreation
leaders in the state had the idea that public recre-
ation was a big enough factor in this same “Ameri-
can Way” to be included in the series of pro-
grams. \Vithout much urging, Thomas Hussel-
ton, the governor of the district for Kiwanis, fell
in line with the idea and put public recreation on
as the feature for the month of August.

The subject selected for all speakers to work
from was “Recreation-—~The Pursuit of Happi-
ness in the American Way.” Then came the task
of finding speakers to cover seventy luncheon and
dinner meetings over the length and breadth of
the state. A committee of three was placed in
charge of this program, but it soon fell to one
man to arrange the speaking assignments, and he
didn’t fall down! A maximum of twenty speak-
ers was needed for the popular meeting time.
Thursday noon—fewer for the
other meeting times. It was
quickly discovered that par-
ticularly in South Jersey Ki-
wanis Clubs are far more
numerous than recreation ex-
ecutives. But recreation has
friends among the laymen of

328

The Public Recreation Association
oi New Jersey and the New Jersey

District oi Kiwanis
have joined forces in a state-wide

recreation publicity campaign

By JOHN M. ROWLEY

Mr. RowleyI who is the Secretary and
Custodian of the Board of Recreation
CommissionersI East OrangeI New Jer-
seyI will be glad to send additional
information regarding this, program to
anyone requesting it.

addressed at City Hall. East Orange.

the state, and they are be

sent the subject to these
clubs that represent such
an excellent cross-section
of the public which has so
much to say on the ques-
tions of taxes, budgets and

the like.

It shouldn’t have been a
great surprise, but the committee was indeed
happy over the response to this request for help.
It was just about unanimous, and those who
couldn’t help had good reason and were sorry.
Furthermore, the cooperation of the Kiwanis
leaders, lieutenant governors and club presidents
was most whole-hearted, and the reaction of these
men to the way in which the recreation end of
the work was covered is certainly most compli—
mentary to the profession.

There has been a tremendous amount of detail
work necessary to the setting up of the schedule,
including the gathering of information about the
speakers, relaying this to the club secretaries, keep-
ing the speakers themselves reminded each week
that they had a date to cover, and similar matters.
No recreation executive is allowed to speak in his
or her own community, the committee feeling that
the local superintendents had probably spoken be-
fore their local clubs before and that an outside
executive would lend greater interest. Further, in
order to try and see that the message was a general
one and not too tied up to local program or prob-
lems, a suggested talk has been sent to each speaker
and copies made available for publicity use if the
speaker should decide to follow the general thought

as outlined.

This program has involved work in plenty for
some. It means that many will Spend the week of
August 11th in what will amount to a speaking
tour of New Jersey, but the
Public Recreation Association
of New Jersey feels it is an
opportunity that cannot be
overlooked and that it will be
a real contribution to the pub-
lic program and to the indi-

(Continued on page 338)

International

He may be

ing called on to help pre-.

lA Neighborhood Cooperative Nursery School

HE cooperative
Tneighborhood

nursery school
started when sev-
eral neighborhood
mothers came to
realize that while
the play needs of
their older chil-
dren were being
met by the many
varied supervised
activities being
carried on at the
‘two vacant lot
playgrounds, their
youngest children
were left uncared
for. These intelli-
gent mothers ap-
proached the
Neighborhood As-
sociation with the
problem, and then
assisted in work-

ing out a plan by which the children between the
ages of two and a half and four and a half years
could be given wholesome play opportunities.

In nursery schools the children are usually the
first consideration, but in this project it was de-

cided that children, to be eligible, must have moth-
ers who would be willing to help run the school.
There was little money, and everything possible
must be done cooperatively, so the mothers were
asked to take a training course which would en-
able them to help more effectively.

This was not as simple as it may seem. To most

mothers the nursery school or
kindergarten is a place where
the child is well cared for
from nine to noon or three
o’clock, and where the moth-
er’s responsibility is to bring
the child, take him home, and
attend mothers’ meetings
once a week, if at all. The
idea of serving as assistant
teachers, working on a sched-
ule, was a new and startling

project.

The April I939 and August I94Q issues
of Recreation carried articles telling
of the success of thirty-six citizens living
in an East Boston neighborhood of 733
families in improving their living con-
ditions. The stories told how this group.
the Neighborhood Playground Associa-
tion. built two vacant lot play areas and
sponsored an annual clean-up campaign.
And now this association has success-
fully developed a much needed neigh-
borhood cooperative nursery school.

 

By LAWRENCE C. WOODBURY

Boys' DirectorI Central Square Center
East Boston Social Centers Council

one. However, the conviction born of the experi-
ence on the part of a few mothers had strength
and influence, and twenty mothers started the

These mothers, in a series of discussion meet-
ings, decided to pay ten cents a day per child,
attend one mbthers’ meeting a week throughout

the season, and take a train-
ing course over a period of
consecutive weeks which
would include actual partici-
pation in the running of the
school under a trained teacher.
It was decided to plan a full
day rather than just a morn-
ing program in order to in-
clude lunch and rest, two vital
opportunities for training and

(Continued on page 341)
329

"Belonging"

oo MANY PEOPLE in Ameri-
Tca are lonesome. Everyone

who is in his right mind
wants -to belong with other
people, and if he doesn’t be-
long anywhere, he is unhappy.
Having too many people who
feel lost and unhappy is a
danger to our nation. We may lose our freedom
and come under the terror of the Nazis, like so.
many other nations, unless we can give each other
the satisfaction of belonging and standing to-
gether.

The American people, like practically all the
civilized people in the world, are more lonely and
unhappy now than they were fifty years ago, be-
fore we had movies and radio and automobiles.
Fifty years ago, our grandparents lived in small
places, even when they lived in cities. There were
no automobiles, not many hard roads, and to get
five miles from home and back was a real journey.
Children walked to school, families walked to
church. There were plenty of chores to do, even
in town, so no boy or girl had any doubt of be-
longing to the family.

This country was full of neighborhoods, places
where families knew each other pretty well. There
were parties in houses and sociables in the church,
where the same people met often enough to feel
that they belonged together. When anyone was
sick, the neighbors all knew about it and helped
out any way they could. The church was the cen-
ter of the neighborhood, where people met on
Sundays, and often on week days, and where the
members took part as friends in the ceremonies of
baptism, of joining the church, of marriage, and
of death. ‘

Most people never thought
they were especially happy
in these little neighborhoods,
or that by escaping from
them they were going to
make themselves homesick.
But millions of older people
in this country today are
homesick for the old days.
Even if they still live in the
same house where they were

330

By DAVID CUSHMAN COYLE

"We Americans are natives of all
the world gathered here under one
flag in the name of liberty. .Wher-
ever men stand together in defense of
freedom we feel the call of compan-
ionship.’l —David Cushman Coyle.

Chapter. eleven of David Cushman Coyle's
significant booklet. America, deals with
a subject of deep concern to all of us.
It is reprinted b permission of the author
and the publis er' the National Home
Library Foundation' in Washington' D. C.
After reading this chapter you will not
be satisfied until you own a copy of this
challenging presentation of the situation
America is facing today. You will want
your friends' tooI to have copies. They
are available at twenty-five cents each.

born, the neighborhood ha
dried up. Millions of youn
people are unhappy withouI
knowing why, because the
don’t remember ever belongin
to anything.

The fact is that when wel
got automobiles and hard roads,
and could travel forty miles more easily than our
grandfathers could travel five, the neighborhood
grew so large that it fell all to pieces. Many coun-
try churches died, the old-fashioned picnics and
spelling bees and church fairs disappeared. Peo-
ple can drive ten miles into town to a movie and
sit in an audience where they don’t know any—
body. \Vhen they get home they have had a good
time, but there is something missing. People don’t
belong to a movie.

One way to get over being lonesome is to joinl
something. Americans are great joiners. There
are thousands of clubs and committees and teams
of all kinds, and most of the members are there
because they like to belong to something. But
sometimes even a lodge or a club leaves you lone-
some when you go home. You still wonder
whether anyone outside your immediate family
really cares if you are married or unmarried or
sick or well or get a raise or lose yOUr job, or

live or die.

The old American heritage of community spirit
has been partly lost and we need some headwork
to get it back. What can be done to bring back
the feeling of belonging to the community?

Five years ago, the Farm Bureau ‘in Ohio asked
a few farmers and their wives to invite a dozen
of their neighbors to come in for an evening once

a month, to discuss things
in general. The latter part
of the evening was for re—
freshments and just talk.
Now there are 600 such
meetings in Ohio every
month and everybody comes.
What makes them come?
They come because in try-
ing to find out how to help
their community, and then 'o
“eating together, they have

“BELONGING” 331

discovered their neighborhood again. Those who
remember what it used to be understand how it is
that they like coming to these meetings. As one
farmer said: “Our getting together and working
together has made all of us realize that we have
the best neighborhood in the country. I guess I’m
kind of proud to belong to it.”

National defense calls for a lot more than mili—
tary service or even defense production. There
are hundreds of kinds of service that need to be
done in every county and city in the United States.
Someone needs to organize recreation, for in-
stance, for soldiers and workers and their families.
Above all, we need an all-out attack on sickness
and accident. People talk about strikes holding up
defense. Sickness and accident are the biggest
obstacle we have. They cause several times as much
lost time as strikes, and they can be cut in half if
we all pull together.

The Government has started a nation-wide at-
tack .on death and disease, beginning with the boys
who were rejected in the draft, and spreading
from there all through the population. Home de-
fense programs are a good chance to build com—
munity services and neighborhood spirit.

Housing for defense workers and housing for
others who are now in bad surroundings must be
pushed as fast as possible. In fact, as we grow
more and more used to the kind of total defense
that must be built up in America, we shall come
to realize that every kind of action that strength-
ens the people and the community is an addition
to the strength of the
nation.

The Government is pro—
moting defense housing,
public health, and home
defense on many fronts.
It is the Government’s job
to provide information and
national leadership, but
success will depend on the
leadership and hard work
of ordinary Americans in
their home towns. This is
a democracy in action,
along lines that fit closely
to the usual American way
of doing things.

All sorts of organizations
that are looking for some—

thing useful to do for de-
fense can find a place in

 

these jobs of home defense service. Rotary clubs,
athletic clubs, Scouts, social organizations of all
kinds, can have the satisfaction of playing a use—
ful part.

Church organizations are especially helpful in
community work. This job of looking after com—
munity welfare is what the church grew on in the
old days. Today we know twenty times as many
ways to do the job, thanks to the advance of
science and medical skill.

Health, happiness, and strength are the back—
bone of defense.” The first things to give up for
the sake of strength are idleness, sickness, loneli—
ness, and the despair that comes from not having
a chance to play a useful part. The Government
has its part to do, such as organizing the health
program. But each community and each family
has also its own part to play, to watch every point
of weakness where sickness or hopelessness can
attack us and to build up the defenses of the com—
munity against those dangers 'at every point.

When military defense is over, home defense
will still be as much needed as ever. There will
be no end to the ob of defending America against
disease and unhappiness.

"There are thousands of clubs' commit-
tees. and teams of all kindsI and most
of Jthe members are there because
they like to belong to something."

Courtesy Sioux Falls, South Dakota

At: a Recreation School

By JACQUELINE SMITH

IGHTY STUDENTS, hailing
from Montana, Colorado
and Nebraska, to New

York, Pennsylvania and
Georgia, lived recreation for
twelve days at the sixth Na—
tional Cooperative Recreation
School at Iowa State College,
June 14-27. Days were
crowded with folk dancing,
games, metal and leather
craft, marionettes and pup—
pets, singing, music, acting,
play directing, singing games, and storytelling.
Most of the students represented local or re-
gional consumer cooperative organizations; all of
them were gathering new materials and acquiring
better techniques to take home and share with
other groups. All of them were interested in rec-
reation as a constructive force in the psychic and
social areas of living, in release and realization of
creative possibilities for the individual, in the de-
velopment of groups organized around interest in
each other rather than in “things,” in the spread-
ing of leadership, in the creation of a group feeling
which is preliminary to group
thinking and group action.
The school is supported and
run entirely by
its 0 w n s t u '—
dents, many of
whom attend
more than once.
Each year’s stu-
dentgroup
elects a board
of directors to
serve for the
coming year
and organize
the next school.
A m o n g t h e
members of the
staff were Neva
L. Boyd of the
Division of So-
c i a l W o r k,
Northwestern

332

A school similar to the National Co-
operative Recreation School described
by Mrs. Smith will be held. for the first
time in the East. at the Hudson Shore
Labor School. West Park. New‘York.

August l7-24. l94l. There will be classes

in games. singing games. folk dancing.
simple dramatics. music. and crafts.
Detailed information may be secured
from the Eastern Cooperative League.

|35 Kent Avenue. Brooklyn. New York.

The children sat spellbound as the .
puppet show was presented at the
meeting of the farmers' cooperative

 

University; Augustus D.
Zanzig, of the National Rec-
reation Association; James
Norris and Ruth Chorpen-
ning of the professional thea-
ter; Marion Skean of Home-
place, Kentucky; and nine
others. The school overlap-
ped with the Publicity and
Education Conference of the
national Cooperative League,
and Co-op educators and edi-
tors shared the recreation
program, while recreation leaders participated in
Conference discussions.

A memorable occasion of this year’s school was
the semi—annual meeting of a near—by farmers’
cooperative which a number of staff and students
attended. Four hundred members of a farmers’
gas, oil and supply cooperative sat on benches in
the dusty Iowa road in front ofytheir' tiny wooden
warehouse while a town band played from their
loading platform. A. D. Zanzig led the audience in
“Iowa” and “Dinah” and “Home on the Range” be-
tween band numbers, and there was a noteworthy
performance of “John Jacob
Jingleheimer Schmitt.” School
students produced “The Three
Sillies,” and the
children of the
audience almost
burst with de-
light at the pup—
pets. Then the
audience troop-
ed over to a
roped off space
before the gas
station, which
had been care—
fully raked and

ing the after-
noon, truck
lights were fo-
cussed on the

(Continued on
page 341)

     

sprinkled dur- I

  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

” S TRON OM Y,” Clyde Fisher and Marian

Lockwood. John Wiley and Sons, New
ork. 205 .pp. $2.25. Interesting, concise, for
 eginners.

Aaaleas. Azalea State Park in Oregon is a nat-
l ral grouping of native azaleas reputed to be up
0 four hundred years old. They were in full
ower in May—a fine showing—a riot of color.

Biography. “Early Naturalists in Kentucky,”
contribution of the Rahnesque Science Club,
entucky Junior Academy of Science, Archie J.
' 7\l‘illiams, museum director, Baker-Hunt Founda-
.tion Museum, Covington, Kentucky, the birth-
lace of Dan Beard, where boys can still have
I dventure.

“Bird Study,” Aids for Wildlife Leaflet 180.
U. S. Department of Interior, Fish and Wildlife
Service, March 1941. A useful bibliography for
bird students.

Born Naturalist. Alfred C. Burrill, curator of
Missouri Resources Museum, Jefferson City, Mis-
souri, was student assistant in Botany I while in
college. Having been born on a farm, he ventured
such a practical question as which way should one
place a bean so that it would get out of the ground
at maximum speed. The professor overheard
young Burrill and censured him. Burrill’s destiny
was shaped at that instant.

Boulder Dam National Recreational Area. Nat-
uralist talks, free motion pictures of construction
of the dam, a free museum of natural history and
a guided trip through the dam are provided as
interpretive. service and recreational facilities.

Camp Suggestions by Basil Wood. “A mos-
I qui'to’s song is music if it can’t get at you . . .
I Bohemian bed ticking and balloon silk make an
excellent handmade shelter.
. . . Greylock sandwiches till-
, ed with butter, creamed
' cheese, jelly and canned roast
beef are delicious! . . : One
lives a dog’s life in a pup
tent.”

I Charcoal. Henry W.
Hicock, Connecticut Agriculf

of these

"Nature-grams is a current events propo-
sition. It is not hampered by tradition.
It provides program ammunition for the
imaginative leader. The, adoption of one
'gram' a month would mean that thempro-
gram is not 'treezing.I Critical discussion
problems at board meetings
would keep the mass» from .growing."

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

tural Experiment Station at Storrs, describes a
portable kiln made of metal plates. It burns in

.twenty-four hours and produces forty-seven

bushels per cord. Has possibilities as a camp
project.

Conference, Midwest Hiking. Plans are under

way for the second annual conference which will
be held in the fall. A1 VVyman, St. Louis Com-
munity Council, is chairman.

Conservation. President Roosevelt recommends
that the name Department of the Interior be
changed to the Department of Conservation. To—
day there is no single agency of government re-
sponsible for conserving natural resources. The

philosophy of conservation is the philosophy of
democracy.

Conservation School. Michigan Conservation
Department held a Conservation School in June
at Higgins Lake for its officers.

Environment. “Using Our World,” S. R.
Powers and others. Ginn and Company, New
York. 626 pp. $1.76. Living resources, minerals,
energy, health, and the conservation of wealth.
Meant for a text but can grace any reading shelf.

Fort Raleigh National Historic Site, where
America’s first English child, Virginia Dare, was
born 354 years ago, has been acquired by the
National Park Service. The famous Paul Green
pageant-drama, “The Lost Colony” will be con-
tinued annually. .The Museum contains valuable
artifacts. This site is a part of the proposed Cape
Hatteras Seashore National Recreation Area.

Guidance. . “Vocational Guidance for Boys,”
Robert C. Cole. Harper and Brothers, New York.
$2.50. Practical with case studies.

Hiking. “Woodland Trail Walkers” is the title
' of schedules compiled by E.
A. Dench, ,Ho-ho—kus, New

Jersey. Since 1937 he has
issued ten booklets and
folders.

Homes; Better Homes
Week has been observed in
Canton Center, Connecticut,
every spring since ,1928. It

333

j-Cc'tp’n Bill.

334 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

begins Sunday with a Better Homes sermon;
Tuesday is Clean-Up Day; Wednesday, the
Women’s Club Plant Exchange; and Thursday, a
community evening program. Mrs. Arthur W.
Sweeton, Jr., is one of the prime movers. Churches
and schools improve their grounds. “Plant a tree
by the side of the road, and be a friend to men”
was the slogan for I938. ’

Landscape. “It would be worth while if in each
town a committee were appointed to see that the
beauty of the town received no detriment. If we
have the biggest bowlder in the country, then it
should not belong to an individual, nor be made
into a doorstep. As in many countries precious
metals belong to the crown, so here more precious
natural objects of rare beauty should belong to the
public.” Just as up-to-date now as when written
by Henry David Thoreau.

Leadership. George Peabody Teachers College
held its first Training Camp for Camp Directors
and Recreational Leaders, May 15 to June 5, at
Montgomery Bell Demonstration Recreation Area,
Burns, Tennessee. Nature recreation is listed as
Woodmanship and Camp Crafts.

Magic. “A History of Magic and Experimental
Science,” Vol. V and VI, Sixteenth Century,
Lynn Thorndike. Columbia University Press,
New York. 695 pp. and 766 pp. $10 a set.

Natural History Bulletins. There is a bill before
the Connecticut Assembly which proposes to
finance seven new bulletins which include such
titles as “Spiders and Insects.” There is also a
proposal for a new State Museum of Natural
History and Industry.

Naturalists for Illinois State Parks. A. R.
Kugler, assistant superintendent, called a confer-
ence last spring to consider the use of graduate
students. College professors and museum and
state officials showed a lively interest. G. G. Eppler',
National Park Service, was chairman.

Naturalists. Indiana State Parks served 80,000
persons in the 1940 'naturalist program according
to Howard H. Michaud, chief naturalist for the
Conservation Department.

“Nature Notes,” John Kieran. Country Life
Press, Garden City, New York. $1.50. Interest-
ing and well illustrated.

“Nature study will show you how full of beau-
tiful and wonderful things God has made the

   
    
 
   
  
   
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
  

world for you to enjoy.”—From a farewell me
sage written to Boy Scouts by Lord Badei
Powell and found among his papers after his deat
How much better than to realize that Euro

would lay in ruins and that Scouting would .
exterminated on the continent. .

River Museum. The first of its kind opened
Campus Martius State Memorial Museum, Ma
etta, Ohio, March 16. Steamboat models, pictur
and relics of navigation for 130 years on the Oh
and Muskingum Rivers perpetuate the memori
of rivermen and river folk. Mr. H. C. Shetro
is the director.

I

I

Silk ll’orms. An interesting experience is th‘a
raising of silkworms until they spin cocoon

They may be fed dandelion leaves if they do ml
taste mulberry first. Cuba and Ecuador are suit

for producing silk. J

Sugar M aple. The Forty-Sixth Vermont Sug r
Eat was held at Springfield, Vermont, on Ap

18, according to Ralph Hileman, Director
Recreation.

Travel. “Coronado’s Quest, the Discovery of
the Southwestern States,” A. Grove Day. U1;
versity of California Press, Berkeley. 418 pp.
biography to be read for the four hundredth anni-
versary of the Southwest.

Tree Thoughts. Two spring bulletins of t e
Recreation Division of the Chicago Park Distri t
deal with “Forcing Cut Twigs” and “Thoug s
for Arbor Day.” Alice Beyer is their chief ins -
gator in nature recreation. '

Tulip Time Festival trip to Holland, Michiga ,
in May by Milwaukee Youth Hostelers who cm s
Lake Michigan by steamship and then bike to
Holland to see the Festival, the tulips, and the
town. (From Milwaukee Muui Hiker-Biker.)

Virginia. William Byrd’s “Natural History of
Virginia,” edited and translated by Beatty and I.
Mulloy. Dietz Press. 109 pp. $4.00. A colonial
classic consisting of nature notes of a planter. "

Water Life. “Ponds, Pools, and Puddles,”
Wells and Hanson. Binfords and Mort, Publish-
ers, Portland, Oregon. 192 pp. $1.50. Fresh water '
life made interesting.

WORLD

AMONG the new rec—
reational facilities at

l" oller Skating Rink at

Bear Mountain Bear Mountain State
Park, New York, is
-: playheld to be used in conjunction with the
r fteen acre field near the center of Bear
fountain Park activities. The Park’s roller
kating rink with a new sound system which
was opened in April was used by more than
i
1

~ ve hundred skaters on the first day.

MARTIAL music is
again coming to the
fore in this country

. as regimental bands
pring up in the defense camps. These bands
re demanding new
cores of ancient and
: odern music. Assisted
:- the \VPA, the music
irision of the New

’ork Public Library is

ttempting to help sup—
. 1y this demand. A sur-
‘ 'ey of band music is
I eing made, with em-
I hasis on that composed
' r arranged for military
lands. Selected compo-
\ itions will then be or—
:' chestrated and scores
' nd parts made available
for the use of regimental

lands throughout the
‘ ountry.

Meeting the Demand
for Martial Music

 

II Archery Popular in

i Dearborn, Michigan
'.

 

IARCHERY came into
'prominence as an or—
ganized sport in Dear-
born, Michigan, in the
: spring of I939. Impetus
. was given the develop-
ment of archery through
' the leadership of Carl

AT PLAY.

Strang, a local resident prominent in national,
sectional, state, and local archery circles.
Under Mr. Strang’s sponsorship a splendid
archery club was launched, and _the interest
of the community centers was aroused through
demonstrations given by Mr. Strang and other
expert archers. The Michigan District Archery
Tournament was held at Ford Field in June,
1940 with a hundred of Michigan’s leading
archers entered.

SEVENTEEN American
republics, including
the United States,
. have now signed the
Inter-American Convention on Nature Protec—

Protection of Nature
and Wildlife

 

Courtesy Dearborn, M ichigan, Department of Recreation

335

336 WORLD AT PLAY

 

   
  
   
       

New
DIAMOND

 

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
madel Cadmium and copper plated. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
treated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
ment shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. 5. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE 80.

4bl0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

tion and Wildlife Preservation to protect
nature and preserve wildlife in the Western
Hemisphere. The treaty calls for the estab-
lishment and extension of national parks,
nature areas, and similar reservations which
will preserve natural wonders, exceptional
scenery, or places of outstanding historic or
scientific interest. It also provides for the
protection of wildlife in these areas. Ratifica-
tion recently by the U. S. Senate, according to
Secretary of the. Interior Harold L. Ickes,
makes the United States ready to carry for—
ward its part under this treaty.

Secretary Ickes in a recent statement called
ratification of the treaty one of the most signifi-
cant steps taken in recent years toward pre-
serving scenic areas and wildlife. The Fish
and Wildlife Service under Dr. Ira N. Gabriel—
son, Director, and the National Park Service
under Newton B. Drury, are the two services
which will carry out the program within the
United States.

Mother’s Day at Mozart Playground—At

Here’s the W

 

  
  
     

Mozart Play Center in Chicago, Illinois, t
tiny tots in the play group invited th
mothers to a Mother’s Day tea party on M
6th. All the children were in the receiving 1i
and each one welcomed and seated his 0
mother. Then came the program which co
sisted of rhythmic and dramatic plays, rhyth
band selections, and the tea party. Each chil
served his own mother and then sat beside h
to share in his own treat.

Swimming Pools in New York City—ThL
sixteen large outdoor swimming pools built by
the Department of Parks and the “fork Proj—
ects Administration in New York City have
served nearly 11,000,000 people since the hrslt
one was opened in 1936. The 1940 attendance
at the pools surpassed that of 1936 by more
than a hundred per cent.

Using Oakland’s Schools—According to
William F. Ewing, Superintendent of Schools,
Oakland, California, during the fall term the
city’s public school buildings were used 14,8
different times after school hours for meetin
and recreational events. This figure does n
include regular evening classes nor playgrou
activities.

  
   
  
   

Sand Modeling and Storytelling in Oak
Park—Oak Park, Illinois, has followed the cus-
tom of naming some of its playgrounds after
well known authors. There is, for example,
the Carroll Playground, the Andersen Recrea—
tion Center, the Eugene Field Playground, and
the Barrie Playground. The children have be-
come familiar through their storytelling pro—
gram with many of the tales told by these
famous authors and the influence of these
writers is felt throughout the playground pro-
gram. The sand modeling classes at Stevenson
in 1940 ended with an interplayground contest
that demonstrated effectively the possibilities
of the craft and its appeal to the children. Tales
by the authors after whom the playgrounds
were named were worked out in dramatic form
in some of the sand modeling classes. Story—
telling, too, proved its value in encouraging an
interest in good literature, in stimulating, the
children’s imaginations, and in awakening an
interest in the lives of others. The stories were .
dramatized on occasion, and storytelling con— :'

 

FOR THE FOURTH

WORLD AT PLAY 337

RECREATION

 All Steel Pan
 Shaped Basket-
 hallBank

Write for literature on the
new official outdoor type
Fan-Shaped Basketball
Bank and Goal.

I 1m:
,g, “‘3 J. Ii. PORTER
1. cunponnTIuN 93.1332:

 

: tests among the children were a part of the
program.

“Canadian Nature”—Under this title a maga—
zine designed “to interpret Nature and the out
of doors for your enjoyment and benefit” is
being issued five times'a year by the VVhitte—
more Publishing Company, 177 Jarvis Street,
Toronto, Canada. Articles on birds, animals,
plants, and nature hobbies make this a helpful
means of arousing interest in nature lore. The
price of a year’s subscription is $1.00. Single
copies are available at twenty cents each. (Re-
mittances are payable at par in Toronto.)

An Indoor “Junglegym”—-There is now avail-
able a new indoor model “Junglegym” climbing
structure built from hard wood instead of steel.
Being portable, the new wood model, which is an
exact duplicate of the original steel model, can
also be used outdoors. There are two sizes. The
smaller accommodates fifteen children; the larger,

 

  
  
     

 

I N s T n I. I. “WNGLEGYM”

Climbing Structure Combination

The perfect, playground combination. Comprised of 2 swings, 2 rings. 18
Ft. Slide and a horizontal bar, all combined with the versatile "JUNGLE-
GYM" Climbing Structure—so popular in the Children's World at the recent
New York World's Fair. "IUNGLEGYM" Climbing Structure is absolutely
safe—with a record of 100 million child-play-hours without a single serious
accident or a cent of up-keep cost. This complete playground set costs you
only $152., F.O.B. factory, Ottawa, 111.: less than the price of the "JUN-
GLEGYM" Climbing Structure alone just a few years ago. Other combina-
tion units available as low as $41., P.O.B. factory. Ottawa. 111. Ground
space required—20 Pt. 1: 27 FL: Height installed—8 Pt. Write for literature.

Write for Our Complete Playground Equipment Catalog

which measures 7’ long, 5’ 3” wide and 7’ high,
is designed for the use of twenty children. The
wood is treated with a special oil finish for appear-
ance and durability.

Information regarding this model may be secured
from the  E. Porter Corporation, Ottawa, Illinois.

Recreation Executive Makes Survey for Navy
Department—George Hjelte, President of the
Society of Recreation Workers of America, and
Superintendent of the Los Angeles Playground
and Recreation Department, on June 16, 1941, re-
turned to his city work after a three-month spe-
cial assignment with the United States Navy De-
partment. Mr. Hjelte had the rank of Lieutenant
Commander of the Navy. He made a survey of
the recreational needs of the naval training and
shore stations throughout the nation and presented
recommendations to Navy authorities.

Mr. Hjelte’s recent book, “Administration of
Public Recreation,” has had favorable mention.

338 ROTHSTEIN ESTATE TO BECOME A PLAY CENTER

PLAY MINI-GOLF

Teaches Novice 0 Lowers Score of Dub Golfer

Mini-Golf and Shufi-Off is playable in the recreation hall,
gym, church, parlor or on any smooth surface. Why n0t
start a small class in the rudiments of golf. Inexpensive
and simple to demonstrate. '

You taught tennis through my game of Paddle Tennis.
Now try MINI-GOLF.

Send for catalogue of Paddle Tennis, Rounders, Pad-
minton, (Chinese) Chungua Chess and Shove Ha'Penny.

BEAL'S GAMES. Inc.

2'77 FIFTH AVE... NEW YORK CITY MUrray Hill 4-7239 - 40

For information concerning

THE SCOTTISH COUNTRY DANCE SOCIETY OF AMERICA.
write to Beal’s Games. Incu 277 Fifth Ave" New York City

Sixth Annual Playwriting Contest —— The
sixth annual playwriting contest sponsored by the
Religious Drama Council of the Greater New
York Federation of Churches will close Septem-
ber 15, 1941. Plays submitted must be one-act
dramas suitable for church production, the play-
ing time not to exceed one hour. Further infor-
mation may be secured from the Religious Drama
Council at 71 West 23rd Street, New York City.

A State-Wide Publicity Campaign
(Continued from page 328)

vidual speaker and worker to have the contact
with these fine groups of men throughout the state.
The committee of recreation executives handling
this program under the leadership of Leroy C.
W'ilsey, the president, includes Philip LeBoutillier
of Irvington, chairman, Fay S. Mathewson of
Union County, and John M. Rowley of East
Orange.

Reiuvenating Old Man River
(Continued from page 327)

furling of a beautiful flag from a covered dish, a
recital of Munro Leaf’s “John Henry Davis,” by
the Captain, who held his listeners spellbound.
At the end the audience and ensemble sang “God
Bless America,” and the curtain was rung down
on a very happy vacation reading project. There

With Apologies to the Photographer

Through an error the photograph which was
used as the frontispiece of the July issue of REC-
REATION (page 222) was credited to R. T. Pem-
broke. The line should have read “Photo by R.
T. Rathbone, Los Angeles, California.”

 

Rothstein Estate'to Becorn
A Play Center

FIFTY ACRES of barren filled land in the Que
section of New York are being transform
by WPA into a recreation center which will co
plete Juniper Valley Park, which was started se
eral years ago after the city took over the la
from the estate of the late Arnold Rothstein. T
development of the area will include filling a
grading, extensive landscaping, the planting l
540 shade trees and thousands of shrubs, the i
stallation of drainage and lighting systems a
concrete benches, and the construction of pat
and paved play areas with 14,000 square yards I
bituminous and concrete surface. Recreation f
cilities will include fifteen tennis courts arrang
in two batteries, one of which will be used for i
skating in winter, five badminton courts, eight sh
fieboard courts, ten paddle tennis and five doubl
handball courts. A brick structure containii
lavatories and storage space for game and mai
tenance equipment will be built facing the exi
ing large wading pool constructed as part of
previous WPA project.

  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
   

Discovery by city engineers soon after the pa
site was taken over from the Rothstein estate f
non-payment of taxes that the property overlaid
hidden fortune in peat moss led to the first lar
undertaking, the excavation of 250,000 cubic yar
of the material. 'The last of the peat moss will
used in landscaping the new sections of the par

an

were hurried preparations for departure, the g0
sounded, and the gangplank was removed.

Soon we realized the showboat was moving; t '
lights became dim and the children’s voices faint.
Suddenly the bend in the river and the clump f
sycamores took them, they were gone—gone 0
happier and greater achievements!

Play Day at the Great White Sands.

(Continued from page 3’25)

ing event of the day. As the crowd sat on the
sides of the great amphitheater, these children, ap-
proximately a hundred of them, in colorful cos-
tumes danced the old folk dances to music from
phonograph records from the public address sys-
tem. This year, in keeping with New Mexico’s
celebration of her Coronado Cuarto Centennial,

RECREATION-APPRECIATION i/VEEK 339

UNIVERSAL PORTABLES
SAFE UNDER EXCESSIVE OVERLOAD!

ecreatzion - Appreciation Week

UR CONTI‘NUED SECURITY and the democratic
0 way of life that we cherish so highly de-
end upon the mental alertness, the moral stand-
rds, the physical strength, and the resourceful—
ess of all citizens and especially our young men
nd women. . . .”

With these words Mayor John W. Kapp of
pringheld, Illinois, proclaimed February 16 to
2 as Recreation—Appreciation Week. The pur-
ose of the week’s activities, which were spon-
ored by the Springfield Y.M.C._A., was to “urge
ll citizens to enter into a sympathetic understand-
ng of the wholesome benefits to be derived from
he full use of the many recreational advantages
hat Springfield offers to its citizens.”

During the course of the week special events
vere planned by churches, schools and civic or—
anizations to acquaint the people of Springfield
vith their recreational opportunities. Highlights
f the week included the annual meeting of the
‘ .M.C.A. at which football moving pictures were
hown, Cosmopolitan and Lions club meetings
' edicated to recreation.

A thirty minute sound color film portraying
. ommunity recreation activities in various cities of
.he United States was made available by the
xecutive committee of the celebration to all groups
planning special events during the week. Posters
and the mayor’s proclamation were distributed to
schools and stores.

The week was climaxed by the attendance of
1,000 children at the Saturday morning showing
of “Batting Around the American League,” major
league baseball film sponsored by the Playground
and Recreation Commission. Governor Dwight H.
Green of Illinois spoke to the young people and
praised the work of the Commission.

A number of well known people publicly sup-
ported Recreation-Appreciation Week. Among
those who gave their approval and helped to pro-
vide publicity for the event were: Shirley Temple,
J. Edgar Hoover, W. H. Cameron, managing di-
rector of the National Safety Council, and officials
of the Girl Scouts, the University of Illinois, and

 

For over 25 years. we
have deHgned and bth
these top quality bleach-
ers. Let us help you
solve your seating prob-
lems. Informative bul-
letins and price quota-
“on sent on request

NOTE:

Steel shod
stringer
nose. and
1 00 %
bolted con-
struction.

UNIVERSAL BLEACHER CO.

CHAMPAIGN, ILLINOIS,

   

 

of the Handkerchiefs); cowboys and cowgirls
did “Little Brown Jug,” and a square dance, while
old—fashioned boys and girls went gayly through
“Virginia Reel” and “Pop Goes the Weazel.” Two
mountain singing games, the “Miller Boy” and
“Bread and Butter,” thrilled many in the crowd
who could remember having done these them—
selves. With hands joined, the group danced away
to the tunes of “Oh Susannah” and “Arkansas
Traveler.” 'The year before the children had given
the spirit of the dancing peasant on the village
green as they went through “Green Sleeves,”
“Minuet,” “Czebogar,” “Tantoki,” “Come Let Us
Be Joyful,” and “Highland Schottische,” among
others.

The night program of Indian dancers from the
Mescalero Reservation, followed by community

’ one Of the maior 3” Imes' singing around the campfire, ends the day. One

continuous line of cars can be seen leaving the
playground. Children and adults, too, tired but

 

' the folk dances were limited to those of Spanish,
I cowboy, and pioneer origin. Colorful Mexican happy after a day long to be remembered, are
[ skirted girls and sombreroed boys did the “Mexi- already planning for the next White Sands Play

can Polka” and the “Valtz de los Paiios” (Waltz Day.

340 COOPERATION WITH THE RED CROSS

The America We Defend

(Continued from page 322)

and eighteenth century culture. Baltimore is
known today for successful cooperative planning
between public and private agencies. The Depart-
ment of Public Recreation has grown out of an
outstanding private agency and is nationally
famous for the size and organization of its pro-
fessional supervisory staff. Unique also is its de-
partmental organization for recreation service for
colored citizens.

A long-range plan for recreation in Baltimore
is now being completed. Exhaustive and scien-
tific, it outlines future acquisitions and develop-
ments to meet the diversified recreational needs of
the city’s population. Recreation leaders will be
interested in the progressive, long-range viewpoint
of this 212 year old city.

Sight-seers may visit Johns Hopkins University
and Hospital, the United States Naval Academy
at Annapolis, the first Washington Memorial in
the country, the 149 year old statue of Christopher
Columbus, the Baltimore Museum of Art, and
Fort McHenry, birthplace of the “Star-Spangled
Banner.”

The national emergency has resulted in a severe
housing situation in Washington and surrounding
cities, including Baltimore, and this has placed an
additional burden on hotels. Delegates to the Con-
gress have been asked to cooperate by doubling
up wherever possible—two people in a room—and
writing early and directly to the hotels. Head-
quarters for the Congress will be at the Lord
Baltimore Hotel.

Congress time this year will bring together men
and women faced with new questions and equipped
with new answers. Together they will work and
talk and play. Theirs is a difficult and challenging
task. New techniques must be examined, old ones
adapted to the present situation. For to the rec-
reation workers of the country goes a special duty
in this time of emergency— in defense of America
they must help to keep her people united, strong,
and happy.

Week-End Camping

(Continued from page 299)

13

Set the hour for going to bed half an hour earlier

than appears necessary, to allow time for conversa-
tion and settling down.

While listing things to remember, don’t forget

Cooperation with the
Red Cross

HE BOARD OF RECREATION COMMISSIONERS .
Bloomfield, New Jersey, in cooperation wi
the Red Cross is working out a plan which w
provide an interesting handcraft project for t
playgrounds and at the same time will be of rezll
service to the Red Cross. .

     
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
     
  

The Red Cross executive secretary will confer
with the local committee having to do with tit;
making of articles such as sweaters, shawl;
booties, socks, and diapers, ‘and will select t e
articles which she and her committee feel most
appropriate for playground age children. A list
will be compiled which the instructors may con-
sult. The Red Cross will supply all materials and
directions. -

“I think all of our communities have Red Cross
chapters which will Welcome this offer of aid,”
says C. A. Emmons, Jr., Superintendent of Rec-
reation, in describing the plan. “It may mean just
a little more work for the girls’ instructors parl-
ticularly, but it could be a real service and I liaise
an idea the children on the playground will be
happy in doing something for others. It will cost

the department nothing and will be good publicity.”

:

to have a safety-'in-camp session before starting on
the trip. Lead a discussion on safety precautions
and emphasize those hazards to be found most
frequently in camp. Suggest that flashlights be
used by all'campers. They are safer than candles
or lanterns. Also inspect the fire-fighting equip.-
ment on arriving at the camp, instruct the campers
in its use, and if the camp building is large, plan
a fire drill. '

The Final Good-bye

\Nhen the clean-up squad has finished its last
job at camp and the equipment committee has
checked out all supplies, it’s time for the final
good-byes. One last check-up to make sure noth-
ing is forgotten and everything is in order, then :
the campers are off for home. But these good- .:
byes will only be temporary, because plans for
the next camp are probably in the making now
that young America has discovered the compara- .
tively inexpensive joys of “roughing it” for the
week end. '

l

A NEIGHBORHOOD COOPERATIVE NURSERY SCHOOL

A Neighborhood Cooperative

Nursery School
(Continued from page 329)

’ necessities for growth in the life of a child.

The mothers then visited nursery schools lo—
cated in Boston and took notes on the number of
children per teacher, the amount of space for the
number of children, the type of equipment needed,
and the program. '

The Neighborhood Association, by sponsoring a
number of Saturday night socials, raised $100
which was turned over to the nursery school, and
the Social Centers Council agreed to help the
project to the extent of $1,100. A trained and

experienced nursery school teacher and a cook

were obtained and play equipment purchased.

As headquarters for the school it was decided
to use the Central Square Center, since it had a
good kitchen and a sufficient number of rooms and
toilets. For outdoor play the neighborhood play—
ground was available.

With all plans completed, the school got under
way on January 6, 1941, with twenty—two “tiny
tots” enrolled. Additional supervisory help was
obtained from the National Youth Administration
and a Boston nursery training school. Now in
operation for the past three months, five days a
week, this cooperative neighborhood nursery has
proved to be a real educational experience for the
mothers and their children. It has given the
neighborhood, and eSpecially the Association, a
stronger feeling of confidence in their ability to
work out their own problems in the best spirit of
democracy.

Spokane's'Playground Baseball School
(Continued from page 320)

was not one accident, serious or minor, during the
full program. Would boys from all sections of
the city respond? Some sections were better repre-
sented than others, but every park visited pro-
duced more boys than the minimum required to
make the school a success. Furthermore, the en-
rollment of the school grew larger each day from
Monday to Saturday in every case.

The Spokane Baseball School was particularly
fortunate in its co-directors. Both McKain and
Walther are fitted by experience and training to
understand both baseball and the boys who play it.
Both men were high school and college baseball
Players. Both are experienced as high school coaches
and ofiicials. In addition, McKain has played sev-

 

Mitchell Fold-o—Leg
tables are attrac-
tiVe, modern and
convenient. Easy
to handle—require
300%. less storage
space and seat
25% more. Smooth
tubular steel legs
are sturdy and
will last c: life-
time. Used in hun-
dreds of schools
and institutions
for dinners. socials,
bazaars, etc.

 

Mitchell Products include Playground and Swim-
ming Pool Equipment. Dairy Barn Equipment
and Folding Stages for Music Groups.

MHCHELL MFG. C0.

3034 w. ronssr HOME AVE. MILWAUKEE. wrscousm
— SINCE 1896 —

eral years of organized baseball, at one time being
a member of the Pittsburgh Pirates. These men
knew exactly how and when to vary the work to
make it interesting and valuable.

Baseball schools conducted by professional
scouts for the sole purpose of finding recruits for
league teams are not uncommon in the United
States. The people of Spokane, however, feel that
their baseball school is unique. Every boy who
reports is given the same training as every other
boy. There is no attempt to find ust the athletes
who may become stars. The turnout during the
first season indicates that the Spokane plan meets

with popular approval.

Promoting Good Neighbor

Relationships
(Continued from page 308)

lands, for the folk songs and folk dances reflect
the living history of their origin. Let us then
dedicate our 1941 Recreation Play Day to good
neighborliness.”

At a Recreation School
(Continued from page 332)
arena, Ruth White of Homeplace, Kentucky,
played a piano set on a truck, and Iowa farmers
and their children enjoyed their first singing games
in many a year . . . but not their last!

Camp—a Final Appraisal
(Continued from page 289)
weigh values, willing to give up some excitement

during the winter so as to save pennies for next
summer. Then I will want to send him back to
camp again and again and again.

342 “ROUND THAT COUPLE AND TAKE A LITTLE PEEK!”

"Round That Couple and Take a

Little Peek!"
(Continued from page 312)

well as Georgia “crackers.” For those to whom
these traditions have background and meaning
there is a social pattern—and the quadrille in
many instances typifies it. And at this point might
be mentioned the pattern of personnel within our
group. When we took a count of native heaths,
for fun the other night, among about twenty

couples, we found represented Alabama, Connecti- _

cut, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Maryland, Michigan,
Mississippi, Balissouri, New York, Ohio, Okla—
homa, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, and Can-
ada. This design may truly be said to be cut from
a good old American pattern!

Familiar in western North Carolina and splen—
did for introduction to the real quadrille is the
two-couple square. From the big circle with all
couples numbered I and 2, the I ’5 lead off to the
right, at the call to join hands with the 2’s. Then
all follow through with changes and choruses, fin—

See I

with 6”?
MARVIN

Think of it! A new revolutionary feature,
the greatest time- and effort-saving improve-
ment ever placed on a typewriter! No more
setting margin stops by hand . . .

The operator merely positions the car-

riageuMAGIC Margin does the rest.
*Trade Mark

  
    
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    

ishing with an “on to the next” or a “right and
left throngh” exactly as we would do later, and
have with prideful facility, in quadrilles of four
couples. Into this pattern came “Four Hands
Across” or “Start with the Right Hand” (and left),
“Four Leaf Clover”—-——and we’ve never found thisl
anywhere else since bringing it home from its
native ha’nt—“Shuck That Corn,” “Lady Round
the Lady,” and a “Georgia Rang ou Tang.” Fol'
quadrilles proper we began on “The First Two
Gents Cross Over.” This one, of the “sing-while-
you-swing variety,” eliminates any possibilities of
self—consciousness, and the relation of couples to
the square they were facing on the floor comes
naturally and easily. This straightway carried
many of the older members back in memory to the
lancers. About this time “Portland Fancy” came
along, and we have been alternating sets with “Put
Your Little Foot” and the schottische. Ex-Texas
members embroidered the first for us and a
Swedish physiotherapist gave us his country’s
version of the second.

Most recently we have been having more fun

ROYAL TYPEWRITER 00., INC.
2 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y.
Branches and Representatives the World Over-

     

ROYAL more than ever WORLD’S NO. 1 IYPEWRITER

 

   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
  
   

uAmericans All"

THE DAUPHIN COUNTY FOLK COUNCIL pre-
sented its Sixth Annual Folk Festival, “Ameri—

in the Forum of the State Education Building,
1 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Fifteen hundred par-
A ticipants composed the twenty—eight nationalities
and races represented. The theme of the festival
was “The March of Freedom.” Colorful cos-
tumes, picturesque settings, traditional songs,
dances, and the playing of ancient instruments
paid honor to the unity of the twenty-one re-
publics of the Western Hemisphere.

Mary Barnum Bush Hauck, State Supervisor
of Music, Education and Recreation Program of
\Vork Projects Administration, directed the Fes~
tival assisted by the Dauphin County personnel of
the Education and Recreation Program of VVPA
and NYA. The episodes which were presented
were: “Ceremonies for Defense and Peace,”
American Indian; “Landing of Columbus,” “Car-
nivals D’Italia,” Italian; “Scenes from Homer’s
dyssey.” Jreek; “English Infare,” British ; “Pan
erican Tunes,” Harrisburg Moose String Or-
estra ; “A Carousel,” Hungarian; “Spiritual and
bilee Scenes,” Negro; “Day at the Serbian
rket,” Serbian; “Judan Maccadeus,” Hebrew;
eseda,” Slovak; “Army Life, 1941,” 103rd
artermaster Regiment, Indiantown Gap Mili-
y Reservation; “Willow Day,” Macedonian;
ummer Party,” German; “Harvest Celebra—
t-ion,” Croatian; “Early American Figure Danc-
ers.” guests from Snyder and Union counties.

 

with Michigan’s “changes,” brought to us by the
member couple from that state now making their
home in Atlanta. “Take a Little Peek,” “Grape
Vine Twist” ——

Take that lady by the wrist,

Around your opposite with a grape vine twist!
Back in the center with a hee haw gee,
And around the gent that you didn’t see!

And there’s “Shuck the Oyster, Shuck the
Clam.” For this last we bartered with them —-

Dig for the oyster, dig for the clam,
Bring your gal to the Promised Land!

A recent count of workaday connections of our
group showed the professions represented by
architecture, dancing, education, engineering, law,
medicine, dentistry, physiotherapy, the ministry,
1 usic, and social service. Utilities included rail—
(lad, telephone and telegraph; business, contract-

cans All,” on the evenings of May 20-21, 1941, .

“AMERICANS ALL” 343

   
 

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles of l

 
 

Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

The American City, June 1941
“New ‘Three Sport’ Floodlighting System for Mu-
nicipal Fields” by S. B. Gaylord

Beach and Pool, May 1941
“Maximum Use of School Pools.” The use of the
school pool by townspeople as well as by students
“Suggestions for the Teaching of Diving” by Nor-
man H. Fleigelman
“Ten Lessons in Elementary Swimming”

The Comping lilagazine, May 1941
“Applying Democratic Principles to the Arts and
Crafts” by Frank A. Warren
“Wilderness Cooking for Everybody” by Barbara
Ellen Joy
“The Wren’s Nest” by Frank H. Cheley. Plans for

a tree house

The Camping Magazine, June 1941
“Camping for National Preparedness” by L. G. Kranz
“Canadian Canoe Cruise” by Harold L. McConaughy.
Camping trip for older boys
“Fun in Camp Safety” by M. S. Koch, Jr.
“Horse Sense in the Riding Department” by Phyllis

Linington
“Photography—Camp Activity Integrator” by L. M.
Hampson, M. D.

Children’s Institutions, June 1941
“Safety on the Playground” by Eugenia Schor
“Satisfying the Ego Through Creative Programs”

by Edward Trwichell Hall

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, June 1941
“Fundamentals in Dance and Sports” by Gertrude

M. Baker
“Recent Trends in High School Intramural Sports”

by DeForrest Showley
“Re-Creating Educators Through Recreation” by
Marie Haidt and Arthur F. Davis

Journal of Social Hygiene, May 1941
“Building Morale in the U. S. Army and Navy.”
Government oihcials discuss morale problems in
radio forum

National Municipal Review, June 1941
“National Defense and Community Service" by
Charles P. Taft. Emergency recreation problems

National Parent-Teacher, May 1941
“Reading Is Fun—If You Like It” by Phyllis Fenner

Parks and Recreation, June 1941
“Park-Sponsored Photo Contests”
“Soldiers Need Recreation, Too”

The Research Quarterly, May 1941
“Achievement Examinations in Badminton”

Your Sport, Summer 1941
“Let the Camera Be ,Your Coach.” Improving your

game techniques with a movie camera
“Play in Your Own Backyard”
“Skiing Takes to the Water” by Dan B. Hains

PAM PHLETS

The Civilian Conservation Corps and Public Recreation

Director, Civilian Conservation Corps, \Vashington,
D. C.

[Making the Most of Maturity

John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., Boston,
Mass.

344 STAGECRAFT CLUBS

Parents Wanted. Adoption Committee of Family and
Child \Velfare Division, Buffalo Council of Social
Agencies

Buffalo Council of Social Agencies, Buffalo, N. Y.,
price $.10

Park Birds by \Vallace Hughes. Reprinted from Parks

and Recreation . .
American Institute of Park Executives, 327 W. Jef-
ferson Street, Rockford, 111., price $.15

Rural Recreation by June Donahue . o .
Extension Service, College of Agriculture, Universny
of Arkansas, Fayetteville

Safety in Physical Education and Recreation. Safety Edu-

cation Series
National Safety Council, Inc., 20 North Wacker

Drive, Chicago, 111., price $.50

Where to Buy Everything for Summer Camps. 1941. A
buyer’s guide for camp directors
Porter Sargent, 11 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.

MANUALS

The Camp Manual—A Guide to Community Camping
Recreation Project, WPA, Northern California, 49
Fourth Street, San Francisco, Calif.

Playground Illanual. 1941

Division of Recreation, Department of Public Wel-
fare, Toledo, Ohio

ANN UAL REPORTS

All the Children, Board of Education, New York City;

Camp Fire Girls, New York City; Jewish Welfare
Board, New York City

Recreation Commission, Bakersfield, Calif.; Recreation
Board, Danville, 111.; Board of Park Commissioners
and the Division of Public Cemeteries, Hartford, Conn. ;
Department of Public Welfare, Louisville, Ky.; Parks
and Playgrounds Association, Montreal, Canada; De-
partment of Playgrounds, Ottawa, Canada; Department
of Public Playgrounds and Recreation, Reading, Pa.;
Parks and Recreation, Department of Public Welfare,

Toledo, Ohio; Department of Recreation, Wyandotte,
Mich.

ing, insurance, jewelry, photography, printing,
electrical and'motor service. Industries included
coal, cotton, chemical research, motor. oil, produce,
and steel. To these we should add homemaking in

tribute to the wives and mothers of from one to
five little Joneses!

W’e hope they’ll all be around again when we
open on September 8th. They don’t know it yet,
but there are plans under way to hold this open~
ing meeting at the American Legion Post No. I

clubhouse on that smooth shiny fioor, and to make
an Old Home Night of it.

Neenah Builds a Swimming Pool

(Continued from page 313)

responsible to the head life guard. A first aid

station for the care of accidents adjoins the main
pooL

A large room is set aside for recreation, and
here games of various kinds are played and dances

. Clubs” were developed to help boys and girls w

Stagecraft Clubs

AST SUMMER on the playgrounds of St. Lou
Missouri, what were known as “Stagecr

were to be in positions of leadership to expre
themselves better and more clearly. Umpires a
referees can be trained to speak their decisio
more clearly, it was pointed out. Child acto
in puppet shows and other dramatic activities a
more effective if they speak their parts bett
Those who take part in playground festivals c
be understood if their voices are trained. Childr
who have the ability to express their ideas in
well organized way will make a much better i

pression on the group. Accordingly the main p

pose of the Stagecraft Clubs was to improve t
speaking ability and stage presence of all boys a
girls interested, to develop in the boy or girl t
ability to organize his thoughts, present them

an audience, and express them with adequ
voice and articulation, so that he may be easi
understood.

Activities of the leaders’ clubs included pant
mimes, storytelling, choral verse, dramatic stun
puppet shows, creative dramatics, and miscellan
ous everyday speech experience such as talki
over the telephone, explaining how things a
made or look, performing social and platform i
troductions, eulogizing favorite characters, maki1 ,
announcements,.and telling historical and prese «
day stories of St’. Louis history.

It was planned to give certificates of proficien
at the close of the season to those club memb -
who successfully accomplish ten or more spee
projects.

  
  
  
  
   
   

_——--._—_——_-——.—-—-—-.__.—

held. There is a soda fountain in connection wi
this room. Adjoining is another slightly small r
room with a huge fireplace and a small kitche .
Clubs and organizations of different types use t1 .
room for meetings and parties.

The entire recreation building and swimmi :;
pool are in charge of a manager who is direct
responsible to a committee of citizens headed y
the Mayor.

The pool, used for the first time last summe ,
proved popular with swimmers and spectato S
alike. A large balcony opening from the outsitie
was always filled with people who came to watch
the swimmers and enjoy the summer sun or eve-
ning breezes from the lake.

Reviving the Old Swimmin' Hole
(Continued from page 319)

  
    
  
     
 
   
 
    
  
  
 
 
 
  

Frequent counts are taken. Everyone is told to

0 not wander away. At about 3:15 “All out!”
5 called, and the children put on their clothes and
et ready for the return trip. When the weather
5 bad, the trip back to town is made in a hurry.
I he return time, 3 :30, is always the same so that
arents will know when to expect the swimmers.

Simple spring boards have been erected for the
ancy high divers and a shorter, lower one set up
or the small fry. The present swimming pool was
‘washed out” last spring, but sand was hauled in

<
7:.
3"
90
Q
a?
H
v-1
5.:
O
W
90
:3
D.-
H
{3"
('D
$3.)
0
23"
r-g
(D
U)
&
O
r-1
0
O.-
>

eadow adjacent to the beach is being opened to
ecreation-minded citizens and with the owner’s
ermission will be made into a play field.

Safety is paramount, and a first-aid kit is stand—
rd equipment. Frequent safety rallies are held and

continual barrage of safety—first reminders is
acked up by firm leadership. Civic leaders have
ecently prepared an agenda of additional safety
neasures: (I) provide a sidewalled, seated en-
losure for the fire truck; (2) rebuild diving
oard and approach to replace the present rocky
ake-off; (3) move. large boulders off bottom near
diving board by use of cable and three or four

city trucks; (4) find a qualihed volunteer if WPA
an no longer furnish one.

One day last June, the state, district and local
supervisors were leaving a lunch time conference.
As they talked, they walked to the playground
where the fire engine was parked for its first load.
A youngster clad in trunks Whizzed by on a bike.
“I think the children at the playground want to
see you,” he shouted to the local director. This
was pure understatement. As the three men
rounded the corner and came into view, exactly
1 forty-eight kids rose in a mass and cheered. It

was I :29 . . . there was no time to waste! The
I conference was over and away went the truck.

Hot days in Three Forks are fun now, such

water sport and always come back for more. Some
day the people of this Montana city Will have an
outdoor swimming pool for an investment of
' about $10,000, but the immediate problem is
: solved, and a carefully supervised recreation pro-
gram has revived the ole swimmin’ hole.

vatch out for his own and his pal’s safety. They

fun! Parents often join the youngsters in their -

REVIVING THE OLD SWIMMIN’ HOLE 345

    
  
  
    

315 Originally
Developed by. . .

DR. FORREST C.

"PHOG" ALLEN

Director of Physical
Education and Varsity
Basketball Coach
University at Kansas

Lawrence, Kansas

Fills a need in every school . . . Goal-Hi is a new year-
'round indoor and outdoor play-game for boys and girls of
all ages . . . May be played by entire gym classes or play-

ground groups . . . Official Rules Book by Dr. Allen . . .
Same single piece of equipment may be used in the gym
or on the playground . . . Unexcelled as a stimulating

exercise and as a lead-up game to regular basketball
. . . It costs little to play Goal-Hi.

WRITE FOR QATALOG

(Manufactured Under Exclusive License :Agreement)

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.
 DeKalb Street D n p a D

a St. Louis. Mo.
Authorized Sales Representative in Your Locality

 

 

. Robin Hood arid the Gang

(Continued from page 288)

Then each of the leaders discussed in meeting
with their clubs the happenings of that fateful
day. Some elected to discuss the ethical proced—
ures common in college games; others drew out
pointed discussion on sportsmanship, or ap-
proached the subject by exploring the skills in-
volved in playing a better game; the more mature
counselors brought out through their comments
what constituted camp tradition, and what gen—
tlemanly behavior would mean later in life.

This last was an everyday procedure. Even our

newest counselors soon perceived that talking over
the day’s experiences with the campers—puzzling
and planning together—meant better attitudes,
quicker adjustments, and greater interest in de-
veloping physical skills for the fun of playing
rather than for the idea of winning under any
condition. But not so with the gang; this was the
very practice in which they smelled a “catch.”

Not till the fifth day at dusk did the hrst evi-

dence of gang cooperation show itself. It began

346 ROBIN HOOD AND THE GANG

     
   
    

Stories About

LATIN-AMERICA
and CANADA

STORY PARADE A

.- in addition to its usual gay variety of tales,
plays, songs and games, will now include

    
     
  

new stories each month about adventures
in Latin-America and Canada.

     
       
       
   

STORY PARADE is invaluable for story tell-
ing and recreational reading for children
under the teen age. I

BUILT T0 LAST. The tough paper covers and
good quality of the text paper stand up
under long use and frequent handling.

Sample copy sent on request, to recrea-
tional and playground directors.

SUBSCRIPTION PRICE
. . $2.00

  

  
     
    
   

I2 monthly issues .

STORY PARADE
70 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

  

    
   
   
   
 

Please start my subscription to STORY PARADE ‘
with the current issue. $2.00 enclosed.

Name ................................................................................ ..
Address ............................................................................ ..

Occupation ...................................................................... ..

.as Finsbury Field.

  
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
   
  
    
  
   

at supper when the campers were introduced t
visitor by his camp name of Robin Hood, a
told that if they liked, he would show them 11
to shoot a bow and arrow.

Reaction from the gang was not long in comi
in its now familiar derogatory style: snickers, si
glances, whispers all calculated to show the reb
had but one thought: “Oh my, isn’t that swee
Their antagonism at that moment was heighte
by the fact that because of the very anxiety can
by their high j inks they had not yet had explai .
to them the theme underlying Sherwood For
Camp—a theme constructed on the legend i
Robin Hood and his merry men, with the ca
villages named Ancaster, Fountaindale, Locksl
Chase and Nottingham, the twenty cabins nam
after characters in the famous story, the dini ,
hall called “Ye Blue Boare Inn,” and the recr
tion hall bearing the appelation “Robin Ho
Lodge.” The council fire circle was known as Li
coln Green, and the athletic area, complete w' 2
archery range and a nine-hole archery golf cour '

Unaware of the import of all this, small won
the gang received Robin Hood with even in
than the usual quota of catcalls. “Can you sh
an appleoE my head P” they challenged him. “1V
oh, my, isn’t it just too nice to shoot a bow a
arrow?” We all wondered how long Robin Ho ‘
could endure the tantalizing jibes.

His first response was one of action, as he ask
how far back from the archery targets they want
him to shoot. Their answer named the edge of t -
woods, just one hundred yards distant. Eviden s
Robin Hood had anticipated the suggestion for
already stood prepared, his point of aim located
the proper position to allow for the trajectory f
the arrows. He was ready, albeit a bit angry a d
upset by the boys’ remarks. I

They became a little quieter as the first arr v
left the bow and sped through to the target. T e
silence became positively burdensome as, keyed u
to a point suitable for any national competition
Robin Hood then proceeded to send arrow afte
arrow directly into the mark. Visibility was to
poor to permit seeing what was happening, but th
thud, thud of the arrows told their own story. I

When the first round had been shot, the archer’
only fear was that in racing to the target to i6
the results for themselves, the boys would in d-
vertently ruin the arrows. They had been W0
over, and the system of democracy in actio
would do the rest.

 

' New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

l i Swing Your Partners

y Durward Maddocks. Stephen Daye Press, Brattle-
boro, Vermont. $1.00. '

HIS GUIDE to Modern Country Dancing represents
i- a new approach to the subject, for Mr. Maddocks
akes nothing for granted and begins at the very begin-
ing. The result is a complete country dance book for
eginners, written in such a way that it can be used as
a call book. The book employs a new technique which
llows enough variation and freedom to enable the
ancers to enjoy the dances anywhere from the hills of
Tew England to the coast of California.

‘ .

Dance and Be Merry

Tolume I. Collected and described by Finadar Vytautas
Beliajus. Clayton F. Summy Company, New York.
. $1.50.
' OMPLETE DIRECTIONS and music for thirty-one folk
dances and their variations are given in this book,
resented according to the degree of difliculty. Among
I he seventeen nations represented are: Finland, Scotland,
ithuania, Germany, America, Hungary, Latvia, Den-
: ark, Sweden, Palestine, Arabia, Croatia, and Serbia.
‘ second volume in preparation will feature more in—
'ricate steps and longer routines.

l omplete Introduction to Photography

ly J. Harris Gable, P.S.A. Harper and Brothers Pub-
I lishers, New York. $3.00.
‘ SYSTEMATIC introduction to virtually every phase of
photography as an art and a science, this book pro-
ides in effect an elementary course for the individual
aking up photography. All the latest methods for taking
etter pictures are offered in non—technical language
hich the non-professional can understand. Instruction
roceeds in logical order from theory to the actual steps
nvolved in taking a picture.

Make It of Leather

I: J. G. Schnitzer. Government Printing Office, Wash—-

in"S'ton, D. C. $.10.

ETHODS OF MAKING more than fifteen leather articles
are fully described in this booklet and detailed in—
tructions given for decorating leather and making
ecorations of leather. Expensive equipment is not
ssential for leather work, and there are many simple
DTOjects which even beginners in the craft may easily
Indertake. This booklet should prove very helpful 'both
‘ O beginners and those more experienced in the craft.

Songs For Today’s Children

Words and music by Belle Elkan. Clayton F. Summy
Company, New York. $.60.

ATOTAL 0F SIXTY original songs with simple accompani-
ments make up this 'book for children in kindergarten
and primary grades. The songs are grouped in sections:
daily experience, “helping mother,” transportation, health
and safety first, play, dancing games, nature, special days.
They are well suited for rhythmic activity, free play,
and spontaneous dramatization.

Youth Work Programs: Problems
and Policies

By Lewis L. Lorwin. Prepared for the American Youth
Commission. American Council on Education, 744

Jackson Place, Washington, D. C. $1.75.

THIS BOOK, which opens up a new field of study for all
interested in the care and education of youth, is an
attempt to present the major issues which focus around
the operation of a new social institution, the public youth
work program. The study is concerned with the'basic
problems and policies involved in such a program and
suggests the lines along which it might be developed.
Out of the study have come some suggestions for a
general program which may be worked out gradually.
“What is essential,” states the report, “is the direction of
the movement from youth work programs as an
emergency measure to youth work programs as an' in-
tegral element in a national counseling, guidance, train-
ing, placement, and citizenship service for youth.”

In a Minor Key

By Ira DeA. Reid. Prepared for the American Youth
Commission. American Council on Education, Wash-

ington, D. C. $1.25.

"NEGRO YOUTH in Story and Fact” is the subject of

this book. How do the youth of this new socio-
racial group fare in their conditions of daily living?
How healthy are they? How well organized is their
leisure time, and how frequent are their visits to jail?
In what kind of houses do they live? How long do they
continue in school? What nature of work or relief do

-they find? These are some of the questions answered in

this book. Each chapter falls into two parts: the story
and the facts, the first presenting. a picture of one area
of human experience, and the second buttressing the story
with the facts. A section on Leisure and Play points out
the inadequacy of the provision for recreation, while
pointing out some of the efforts' which are being made
to meet the problem.

347

348 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIAIE FIELD

l
l

A Stage Crew Handbook. Card Tricks Anyone Can Do.
By Sol Corn-berg and Emanuel L. 'Gebauer. Harper By Joseph Leeming. D. Appleton-Century Compan
and Brothers, Publishers, New York. $3.00. New York. $2.00. '
This book is a technical, practical volume designed to There are two hundred intriguing card tricks in th ‘
help the technicians, electricians, stage carpenters, and hOOk which contains the newest and most entertaini
others carry on their important work. It covers the tricks devised in recent years. A number of simple tric
many technical problems which occur behind the curtain have been inelnded for the beginner- For the more a
of the theater, the summer playhouse, the school or club Vaneeti umagomlan’” the ‘beSt 0f the more elaborate tric |
auditorium. The book is profusely illustrated with dia- requu'lng Slelght'Of'hand are described-
grams and drawings.
How to Sail a Boat. The Church in Rural Life.
By Joseph Lee. Waverly House, Boston. $.75. ' BY DaV‘d Edgar LIPStlfom: Ph-D- The Garra
For years Joseph Lee’s ho‘bby has been sailing boats, “ Press’ Champalgfh mmms' $'85‘ ,
and in the past three years he has taught almost two The changed conditions ofotransportation. good road
thousand people, young and old, the art of 'boat sailing. ’ C0n§'011dated SChOOISp the radio. and the new communi '
In this attractive book Mr. Lee tells simply and clearly b41515 0f country life,” says Mark A- DaWbel‘ in h I.
the methods which he uses in his teaching A novel foreword, “have all created for the rural church ne
feature Of the book is a removable model of the sailboat DrOblemS and Opportunities T0 the extent that the rur
which can be put to every conceivable use that a chart or churches, and in particular their ministers, catch t
drawing can serve, and it has the additional advantage of ViSi0n Of these new and enlarged Opportunities for servi
moving in the wind so that the learner can see and and make the necessary adjustments—to that extent a1
know how a real sail acts. can we hOpe for any great measure of success.” Th
Recreation workers will want to add this book to their volume is intended to point the way. It should lead r
libraries. a deeper conviction as to the place Of the country chur

in its own community and in the nation.
Cooking, Carrying, Camping on the Appalachian
Trail—A Manual for Beginners.

By S. W. Edwards. Available from the author at

Box 331. Silver Spring, Maryland- $-25- Officers and Directors of the National
The beginning hiker and camper will find many practi-
Oal suggestions on equipment, the planning of hiking and Recreation Association
camping trips, fire making, cooking, and the use of guide
books and maps. Recreation workers will find this an OFFICERS
exceedingly helpful book to have.
A mimeographed supplement to this booklet, which ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
may be secured for ten cents, contains detailed sugges- HOWARD BRAUCHER. President
tions for making the four-eight-four sleeping .bag of JOHN G. WINANT. First Viee-President
down. MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary to the Boa
Democracy and Sport. GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer
Egriohgjfé.‘ Tunis. A. S. Barnes and Company, New DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Molinc, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBET’I‘, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.

F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. 1., N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. I.

Mr. Tunis, whose articles and books on sports are
always so challenging, has made a timely contribution in
this book, for never in the history of our country have
we needed so greatly the spirit of democracy in sport and
the spirit of sport in democracy. In his book Mr. Tunis
explains how fair play, sportsmanship, respect for others,
and especially respect for the will of the majority are all
part of the democratic process. He pleads for a widen-
ing of the base of all games, greater participation by
greater numbers and, above all, playing instead of

watching HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

Summer Recreation, ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
Compiled ender the  of the  ed a:RE.f:‘::::::;.:;ai::;.‘2:::- .
Leisure Time DiViSion of the CounCil of 806131 -
Agencies 70 West Chippewa Street Buffalo New MRS' MELVILI‘E H' HASKELL’ Tucson’ Arlz'

' ’ ’ MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
York. $.25. ,
. . _ MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.

No reSideiit of the city of Buffalo or of Erie County GUSTAWS T. Km”, New York, N_ y,
need remain in ignorance of the summer recreation_faCili- H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
ties available to him, for they are all to be found in this MRS. “CHARLES D_ LAM“, Greenwich, Comm
mimeographed statement featuring the recreational activi- ROBERT LASSITER’ Charlotte, N. c_
ties of private and public agenc1es. SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass_ I
Public Administration Organizations 1941. Sara; i?§f§f}ifg§g§f€;?a'

Public Administration Clearing House, 1313 East CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
60th Street. Chicago. $1.50 postpaid. MRS. OGDEN L. Mme, woodbury, N. Y.

This directory contains a listing of unofficial organiza- MRS- SIGMUND STE“: San Francisco, Calif-
tions in the field of public administration in the United Mas. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington, D. C.
States and Canada, with-information regarding member- 1- C. WALSH. New York. N- Y-
ship, finances, secretariat, activities, affiliations, and pub- FREDERICK M- WARBURG: New York: N- Y-
lications. More than 550 national organizations are listed JOHN G- WINANT. Concord. N. H-
and described in this, the fifth edition of the directory. STANLEY WOODWARD. Washington. D- C-

I

 

