ECREATION WORKERS gathered together at the Cincinnati 1942 Recreation Congress wished to
be told just what they should do to help win the war. '

One felt the complete dedication of the recreation workers to this single task.

The Federal Security Agency, the United Service Organizations, the American Red Cross,
the Work Projects Administration, the United Seamen's Service, and workers in the Navy and

the Army, all were united in the common purpose. Local municipa'l recreation systems were using
all their resources of personnel and material to win the war.

Volunteers must be obtained, must be trained to replace men called away to fill up the ranks.

There must be a readiness constantly to adapt programs.

Declarations from the President of the United States, from the representatives of the War

Department and the Navy Department, from the President of the United States Chamber of Com—
merce, from the labor leaders, were all united in recognizing the central place of recreation.

That recreation is one of the few great main divisions of life was taken for granted.
IReligion, education, health, labor, recreation, all have their part.to play.

Recreation cannot be neglected when there is anything important._t_o;;be. done, for men must
keep on living, more than ever in times of crisis when tenseness meansfeldss::o_f*efiiciency.

#-
31,!” ‘ ’

Recreation is so important that it needs the best, particulaf'r'lylin wartime. No man is too
able, too gifted, too big, to give all that he has and is, wholeheartedly, to recreation, to the music,
the beauty, the art, the comradeship, the common life, the culture of his generation.

In these days men will to dream of daily life now, will to live now. They are not too sure

of tomorrow. The day’s prayer is, “Give us this day our daily life,’.’ even if we face death and
personal loss' tomorrow.

The power with which we work and fight depends much upon the thickness and depth
and intensity of the will to live now today.

Our cities and our homes prepare now in time of war to observe a war Christmas Day.
December 25th is not a day that belongs to any one country, one race, or even one creed. A part
of what this day stands for is abundant life for all—for all the world—~—right here and now——of
a quality that is worthy of being perpetuated, of being made eternal. This day has always belonged
especially to the recreation movement because the effort has been to capture the joy, the beauty, the
comradeship of this day for all the 365 days of the year.

December 25th is a day of peace and good will. The day itself is a symbol of what we fight
for——a world of freedom and good will. It is worth while to dedicate all there is to the nght that
the vision of this day be not pushed aside.

 

NOVEMBER I942

 

429

November

Photo by Jean Galdxrt'ck, Play L -

STARTING YOUNG TO BECOME PHYSICALLY FIT

Third Prize in Hue Nafional Recroaiion Associafion's Phofography Coniosf Was Awarded *0 HI.
Doparfmon? of Paris and Rocroafion. Doiroif. Michigan

 

The War Recreation Congress

INCINNATI was a good
( : place in which to hold

the War Recreation
Congress. Cincinnati was also
a most gracious host. But in
addition, Cincinnati as a city
set a high standard for com-
plete cooperation with the na-
tional committee in planning
to serve the visiting delegates and having the Con-
gress itself serve Cincinnati and surrounding ter-
ritory.

Advance publicity prepared the city for the
Congress. Intensive organization and special in—
vitations enlisted the interest of local individuals
and organizations.

A Cincinnati Information Booth manned by a
staff of well informed local leaders gave informa-
tion, literature and service
to delegates throughout the
week. An eight-page bulle-
tin giving all practicable in-
formation a visitor might
want was put into the hands
of each delegate.

A series of tours was
planned and efficiently car-
ried out enabling delegates
in large or small numbers

Congress held

The Proceedings of the War Recreation
Cincinnati. Ohio.
September 28—October 2. I942. will be
available in printed form early in No-
vember at $l.00 per copy. Because of
- the interest in the Congress. we are
presenting here a few of the highlights
and some of the significant findings.

in

The Playhouse at the Airport Playtield in
Cincinnati. which many of the delegates to
the Recreation Congress visited. serves a
variety of purposes. It is a picnic play-
house. a shelter building for the adjoin-
ing playground. an arts and crafts center.
and a "sportsateria" in the winter months. effort
Each week end the building is reserved for
men of the armed forces for whom it pro-
vides meals and lodging and "quarters" from
which they have easy access to the many

to visit and study recreation
areas and facilities.

Throughout the week, a
living arts and crafts demon-
stration was carried on in the
central foyer of the hotel
against a background of a
permanent display of beauti-
ful ceramics.

The singing by the A Cappella Choir of the
Western Hills High School ,and the June Festival
Chorus added tremendously to the Congress and
demonstrated the important place music has in the
recreation program. i

Before, during and after the War Recreation
Congress the efficient local committee performed a
notable service for the visiting delegates and also
exhibited statesmanlike planning in utilizing the
Congress to serve the recre—
ation development in Cin—
cinnati. '

The Congress demon-
strated that the recreation
forces of the nation are well
mobilized behind the war

The significance of this
meeting was made evident
by the representative char-

outdoor sports which the Playfield offers.

1

 

 

432 ' THE IVAR RECREATION CONGRESS

acter of the participants, the number of commenda-
tory and challenging messages received from au-
thoritative leaders of various aspects of our na-
tional life, the stirring addresses, the earnest facing
of practicable problems in discussion groups and
the patriotic spirit that prevailed throughout the
Congress.

Over nine hundred delegates from all parts of
this country and from Canada and England were
in attendance. Eight general sessions, thirty-six
discussion meetings and many special meetings,
luncheons, and tours were held. All branches of
the armed forces, many agencies of.the federal
government, and representatives of industry and
organized labor, as well as delegates from local
and national, public and private agencies, par-
ticipated.

The \Var Recreation Congress, a cooperative
undertaking of responsible
leaders in the recreation
field, met for the purpose of
exchanging information and
experience. The Resolutions
Committee at the final ses-
sion paid tribute to the Na-
tional Recreation Associa-
tion for its continuing ser-
vice in bringing together the
agencies and services en-
gaged in the war recreation
effort throughout the nation.

Extracts from Messages from National Leaders

From President Roosevelt:

“The recreation services being provided for the
armed forces, for the workers in war industries, and
for the morale of civilian groups are very definitely
contributing to our war effort.

“As a long time member and supporter of the
National Recreation Association, I am happy in the
thought of the significant war recreation service be-
ing rendered through this great c00perative effort.”

From Ambassador John G. Winant:

“The National Recreation Association has a greater
responsibility in these anxious days of war. Men and
women have been scattered from their homes to new
and arduous duties in unfamiliar surroundings. Their
leisure is important and should not be wasted, for
wholesome recreation is essential to help and high
morale. The progress you are achieving is a fine
contribution to meet present needs. I miss being a
part of all that you do.”

From Brigadier General F. H. Osborn:
“In the Army it is realized that morale Springs

At the Recreation Congress announcement
was made of the winners of the National
War Photography Contest held during the
past summer under the auspices of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. The general
theme of the contest was "Recreation De-
partments and the War." The three photo-
graphs published in connection with this
article, and the frontispiece picture on page
430 won first, second, third. and fourth
prizes, as indicated. In later issues of Rec-
reation, some of the pictures receiving

honorable mention will be presented.

from a consciousness of physical fitness, mental alert-
ness, emotional stability and social adjustment.

“Recreational activities, when properly used, con-
tribute to these qualities and will assist in making
our soldiers a great fighting Army, thus making a '
direct contribution to the war effort.

“Please be assured that the National Recreation
Association's efforts in promoting such activities are
sincerely appreciated."

From Rear Admiral Randall Jacobs:

“As part of the total picture of the Bluejackets’
life in the Navy, provision for his recreation is rec-
ognized as a definite responsibility of the Navy.

“As in civilian life, negative recreation activities
in off-day hours can minimize and break down the
values and gains of the training and work program.
The Navy, under direction of specially selected,
qualified recreation ofiicers, is supporting a policy of
providing adequate recreation facilities, qualified lead-
ership and a choice of opportunities of interesting,
entertaining, educational rec-
reation activities on ship and
at shore stations, at home and
in overseas bases. Recreation
in the Navy does play a vital
part in maintaining and
strengthening the character
qualities that develop the in-
dividual and yet encourages
and stimulates him to take his
assigned place on the team
with pride and honor."

From Administrator Paul
V. McNutt:

“What our industrial armies,
our fighting armies, and on
home-front armies do away from their actual taS'
will help index their efliciency. Right recreation c
provide relaxation from strenuous physical tasks a
it can provide the steel-spring strength we need t
return to the job more vigorously. The Ame-r'
army of recreation workers—professional and v
unteer—has this task committed to their hands. . .
Upon you is laid some of the responsibility that c
dren shall not bear the blight nor the burden of
wars. You are a task force whose job is seeing t
the beauty and the happiness that can come to c
dren from play and recreation, are not only
tained but increased.”

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   

From Assistant Director Charles P. Taft:

“Recruitment and training of our fine manpower
for Army and Navy is first duty in this war,
planning for use of their leisure time as well as
of war w0rkers in industry is essential part of t
ing and of production. In that task, govern
federal, state and local—must take leadership
mobilize all community resources. Your fine serv'
in the National Recreation Association have colt-
tributed greatly to these ends.”

THE WAR RECREATION CONGRESS 433

Extracts from Addresses at General Sessions

Howard Braucher, President of the National
Recreation Association, in opening the War Rec—
reation Congress said:

enough. Education must be coordinated with a pro-
gram of recreation. Society must give more leisure
but also teach them how to employ it. There must be
a world in which life will not shrink but expand;
there must be a world in which at long last what has
been the heritage of the few in books, in music, in
play, may be the possession of all. I hope that I have
shown that this Congress is of the very stuff of our
cause—at the heart of what we, who believe ourselves
races.” free, who believe in freedom, want and will have of

From Rabbi James G. Heller of Isaac M. Wise the world-”
Temple in Cincinnati, Ohio: From Dr. Reinhold Schairer, ekiled German
“To meet the problem of recreation is one of the EducatOI‘ and anti-NaZiZ

“This war is peculiarly a war in which public rec-
reation has a special stake, because the recreation
movement has always stood for freedom and democ-
racy with no distinction between creeds, colors or

central aspects of the task of the evolution of the
human race. . . . Recreation is the growing point of
culture. . . . Work is one of the greatest of goods,
but work alone—work that is not free, work that
ends in monotony, work that does not employ the
full man—that work can be tedious and compounded
only of drudgery. One of the greatest aims of life
is to free man from the need
of work like this.
“Education alone is not

“If Hitler should win there will be nothing like
postwar reconstruction or postwar recreation. An
enslaved and tortured human race all over the world
will find the concentration camp, the prison, the
insane asylum and the grave the only places for rest
and recreation.

“After the war we will face four basic problems

and without a strong effort
in the proper use of recrea-

First prize in the photography contest went to tional time, “0 Solution Will

the Mesa. ArizonaI Parks and Playgrounds Board

 

4

 

be Cab.) ul', perhaps, suf-
ficient:

l. The disastrous conse-
quences of enforced
mass idleness when war production stOps can be
changed toward a blessing for humanity only by
the most intensive effort in the field of recreation.

“\fter the extreme efforts and tensions of war will
c me a mass mania of relaxation and even laxity.

Ex

. 'Ihe greater part of the middle class in Europe and
r-ther parts- uf the world will be poor; millions of
people will depend on public and free institutions
1nd facilities for retreation and leisure.

4 \‘r'l‘en the fighting ceases millions will begin to
t. mic at " t." rr will be a hreakdown of hope and
faith.

Thr 111141 mph-e. uf the recreational activities,
‘apan am! {:ermang naie transformed their youth
into perfect tmls wt destruction. We must do the
111]”. .ite. Recreational tetivities from new on should
express and strengthen the fundamental values of
democracy. \‘l'e hate mom and more to emphasize in
recreation the importance of self help.”

Municipal departments in Norfolk and the Navy co-
operate in making dances possible. Second prize was
awarded the Recreation Bureau for this photograph.

54 [HF ll .lk Rift REATIUA CONGRESS

Olfacial U. 5'. Navy Ph

Mrs. Florence Ke
Member of the Boa
of Review, Feder

Works Agency, and W PA Assistant Commission .

Mrs. Kerr emphasized the importance of stron
local public recreation and park services and reviewed
the present financial problem arising from the greatly
increased demands on recreation services due to tlt
war situation. She pointed out that not only recrea-
tion but other services, such as education and health.
are similarly handicapped; that a great many locali-
ties do not have suflicient tax resources to meet their
present needs adequately. Mrs. Kerr referred to tlt
Lanham Act which appropriated three hundred mil-
lion dollars for the provision and operation of addi-

tional needed community facilities and services du
to war demands. Recreation is one of these commu-
nity facilities for which this money may be used in
localities. She also outlined the policy for alloca-
tion of these funds: (0) proved local financial need,
(b) program essential to the war effort, and (c) ser-
vice open to the general public.

 

THE WAR RECREATION CONGRESS 435

From Margaret Bondfield, outstanding woman and purpose that slaughters 200,000 innocent hostages
hbor leader from England: in Europe and that which brings you recreation lead-
ers to this Congress.
“What recreation stands for in America has to
prove itself now or be condemned as futile and of no
‘ account. This is the time of proving—not tomorrow,
but now. What we believe in must be hard, must be
vital, to meet the challenge of the lust for conquest.
Democracy has not yet found that vital determination
to survive.
“We the people are still asleep. \Ve want our peace

“Not only in matters of amusement, use of leisure,
and the sharing of a deeper community life is there
a quickening consciousness in young and old under
the pressure of war, but (to quote Harold Laski),
‘this war is a stage in a vast revolution which seeks
to give to the common man his full stature in a world
which he has the right to dominate, because it is his
effort that with victory. will retain it for civilized

living.’ . .
“A revolution has been completed in the minds of and comfort 'undlsturbed, our tires, our rubber, and
men. The cultural influences which strengthen the body, gas, our Prl‘nlege ‘10 drive at top speed, our pleasures

as usual. We let the Army and the Navy, the

Marines, and the production plants take care of this
3!

mind and spirit of men have in the past been reserved
for the favored few, 'but must in the future be the

rich heritage of the common man. W3?-
“VVe must see to it that never again shall we allow From Lieutenant Governor Charles Poletti of
the selfish interests of ourselves or of others to rob New York State:

us of the new sense of community values which we
have won at such great cost.”

From Roy Helton, author, lecturer, member of

“States should undertake physical training pro-
grams as a war measure and make use of school
buildings after hours to provide increased recrea-

the Pennsylvania State Planning Board: tional opportunities for ‘home front’ soldiers. It is
“Recreation according to . the dual job of all govern-
American ideals of life ment units and war indus-

represents the difference This phobgraph' showing SOIdiers ai- Recreaiion tries to re-examine their
between the type of mind park Baseball Diarrwndl won Award No_ 4 for H16. recreational facilities, ex-

Long Beach. California. Recreation Commission

 

I

   

Phi by Martin J. Ford

 

436 THE WAR RECREATION CONGRESS

pand them to meet new demands and cooperate with
each other to evolve adequate recreation prOgrams

for all.

“Government can ‘develOp loyalty toward the demo-
cratic ideal' by enriching the experience of its citi-
zens. Since government is the pCOple's ‘collective
agency.’ recreation rightfully is its responsibility.
Unfortunately, statistics show that nondefense ex-
penditures from 1935-1942 increased only 22 per cent
while in the same period the national income in-
creased 79 per cent.

“Recreation provides the most logical and easiest
basis of absorbing the characteristically American
diversity of nationalities and interests into our Ameri-
can plan. Community activity gives people a sense of
belonging and this spirit is one of the very founda-
tion stones of our democracy which is not only worth
fighting for, but is a tool with which to fight.”

War Recreation Service as Rendered
by Various Agencies

One of the outstanding services of the \Var Rec-
reation Congress was the opportunity provided for
presenting at one time in one place the special
programs and needs of the various agencies serv—
ing the war effort through recreation. Robert
Garrett of Baltimore told of the far-flung services
being performed by local public recreation bodies.
Colonel Dumont of the Special Service Division
of the Army and Lieutenant Commander Arthur
T. Noren of the Navy told of the extensive pro-
grams being carried on within the camps directly
by the Army and Navy. Dr. Harry Wann out-
lined the vital recreation services being performed
by the American Red Cross within base hospitals
and with the armed forces and in clubs overseas.
Mr. Thomas Ric-kman of the Work Projects Ad-
ministration told of the services being performed
in providing facilities and leadership to supple-
ment local resources. Mr. Ray Johns of the U.S.O.
enumerated the special services performed by this
organization in providing clubs and other services
in communities where local resources are inade-
quate. Mr. Joseph Hoffer of the United Seamen’s
Service presented plans for developing clubs and
recreation programs for the men of the merchant
marine. Mr. Mark McCloskey, Director of the
Division of Recreation of the Federal Security
Agency, gave an over-all picture of the services
being performed for the men in uniform and the
workers in war industries in communities through-
out the country and in certain overseas bases. The
story of recreation services being provided by these
governmental and private agencies was a thrilling
one and resulted in a better understanding of their
aims and responsibilities.

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
 
   
 
  
   
  
   
    
   
   
    

Recreation for Industrial Workers

Recreation for industrial workers, particula
those in war industries, was one of the topics
greatest concern to the delegates of the \Var R
reation Congress, In a series of meetings devo
especially to the problem of providing more a
quate recreation services for workers in war '
(lustries and their families, the discussion \
especially earnest and practical. Personnel mat
ers, recreation directors from industry. repres .
atives from the American Federation of Lab
the C.I.O. and other organized labor groups,
gether with recreation executives in public recr
tion departments and private agencies concer
with recreation for industrial workers, joined t
gether in discussing what the problem is and
best ways of meeting it. The general consensus
opinion of the thoughtful leaders was to the eff
that a tremendous increase in the provision
leadership and facilities for workers in war ind
tries is needed now. Speaker after speaker ur
that community recreation departments, where
possible, should step up and increase their servi
to industrial workers. It was pointed out that '
dustry itself, as well as organized labor, sho
also provide leadership in developing and sp
soring activities.

 

One general session of the Congress was
voted to this topic. Following are extracts fr
messages received on this subject and from
addresses given at the general session:

From Eric A. Johnston, President, Chamber
Commerce of the United States:

“Our industrial army of democracy must have 11
same support that we so gladly give to those who -
on the training and firing lines, and that suppo
must be given on the community front—where t
men and their families work and live.

“One sector of that front is the provision of .c
quate recreation. Management, labor, and local g
ernment should unite now for speedy action in seei
to it that war production workers and their fami '
are provided with recreation programs that will
new and refresh body, mind and spirit for the t
mendous job ahead.

“And that is why those of us concerned with
army of production, why business men are looking
the \Var Recreation Congress and its recommend
tions with keen interest. It is our hOpe that comm
nity programs will be so worked out. that use n"
be made of all existing facilities and that new fac'
ties will be provided, to the end that essential re
reation services may be provided for our entire army

of production."

THE WAR RECREATION CONGRESS 437

From Philip Murray, President of the Congress
f Industrial Organizations:

“Unless the men and women in the mines, mills and
factories of this country are provided adequate rec-
reational facilities, their morale and efficiency on the
job will suffer.

“The right kind of recreation for men and women
when off the job is an aid to production. The wrong
kind is sabotage. Recreation, like education, is a

lbasic human need and should be provided by the com-
munities where the production soldiers work and live.

“Organized labor has sponsored and cooperated
.with industry and all other community forces in the
provision of recreational facilities. This shall con-
tinue to be one of labor’s important objectives.”

From William Green, President of the Ameri-
an Federation of Labor:

“I am tremendously interested in the aims and pur-
poses of the War Recreation Congress. . . . Permit
me to extend the cooperation and support of the
American Federation of Labor. . . . We ought to all
join together in support of the aims and purposes of
the \Var Recreation Congress."

From Robert Davidson, regional director of the
.I.O., Cincinnati, Ohio:

“A town with three-shift industries can’t go on
living a one-shift social life. In fact, the backyard in
this day of tire shortage and gas rationing must be
the playfield for more and more workers. Backyard
sports have increased because of the inadequacy of
other facilities and the desire of workers to be with
their families and neighbors during leisure hours.
Recreation departments must adjust to the three-
shift basis and provide programs for the workers at
times when they can use them.

“Labor groups and management should join hands
on recreation and accept it as an important phase of
community life in which class and social distinctions
are forgotten. A complete prOgram handed to work-
‘ers on a silver platter doesn’t meet with a good
response, but a program worked out by men and
women themselves arouses a greater desire to be a
part of a program, consequently a better response.
There must be no attitude among social and mu-
nicipal agencies of doing something for the worker,
but of doing something with the worker.”

From Alan Curtiss, Director of Employee Rela-
ons, Scovill Manufacturing Company, \Vater-
ury, Connecticut:

“Industrial workers who are living in a commu-
nity and spending their money there have a right to
look to the community for help in finding healthy,
congenial ways of spending their nonworking hours.
It is also up to the employees themselves to plan a
recreation program, because if the desire and demand
for recreation does not stem from the emp10yees,
there is little need for a company to enter into the
situation at all.

“A company should interest itself in recreation for
its employees after the employees have signified their
desire for it. Employees cannot be forced into an
activity. They do not appreciate nor value hand-
outs from the company. Today employee groups are
very independent. They believe that they can stand

on their own feet and we want to give them that
chance.

Recreation for Colored Groups
Dr. Emmett J. Scott, formerly Assistant Secre-
tary of W ar and now of the Sun Shipbuilding and
Dry Dock Company, summarizing the results of
the discussion meetings dealing with special recre-

ation problems of colored groups in wartime, said:

“Communities are increasingly providing, through
public funds, recreational services and facilities in
areas where colored citizens live, but the provision
has not kept pace with the need. Municipal budgets
are not now adequate for war recreation needs. The
federal government has supplemented local resources
by providing forty community recreation buildings
costing two million dollars. They are staffed and
programmed by Negroes. We are still face to face
with inadequate and meager facilities.

“The thirteen million Negroes in America are nu-
merically, economically and socially important. Their
problems, in wartime as during the normal periods
of our American life, are so pressingly important as
to challenge our wisest “statesmanship and Christian
'tolerance, freed of all the ingredients of racial bigotry,
and our most sympathetic attention and helpful co-
operation. Frustrations on the part of our group are
definitely rec0gnizable. This great recreation move-
ment with its potential strength and influence can
help remove these hindrances.”

Personnel

Serious concern was expressed by leaders in the
recreation movement over the question of person-
nel. Faced with tremendous demands for in-
creased service, public recreation departments par-
ticularly are feeling the impact of the manpower
shortage. Fifty-four cities out of four hundred
have lost their chief executives. Two hundred key
workers are now serving with the armed forces
and emergency recreation agencies. Others have
entered industry. Faced with this problem, ser-
vices of professional recreation workers are being
supplemented by women workers, volunteers and
the utilization of older boys and girls on the play-
grounds and recreation centers.

Recreation for Girls and Women

The War Recreation Congress gave special at-
tention to the wartime problems of girls and
women. It was pointed out that one out of every

(Continued on page 480)

“. . . and fervently implore
the interposition of the Al-
mighty hand to heal the wounds
of the nation, and to restore
it, as soon as may be consist-
ent with the Divine purposes,
to the full enjoyment of peace,
harmony, tranquillity, and

union."

II US DID Abraham Lin-
Tcoln close his now fa-

mous Thanksgiving
proclamation in the war
year of 1863. And to Ameri-
cans in 1942 there is a new
and poignant meaning to
his plea that the people of
the nation “commend to
His tender care all those
who have become widows,
orphans, mourners, or suf-
ferers in the lamentable
civil strife.”

Recently in the musty
files of a library was dis-
covered a long-forgotten
hymn written in response
to Lincoln’s proclamation.
This stirring prayer for
peace and freedom, so ap-
propriate now after seven-
ty-nine years, was com-
posed by the Reverend W.
A. Muhlenberg, pastor and
superintendent of St.Luke’s
Hospital in New York
City. In his dedication the
composer described his
scheme for helping dis-
abled soldiers of the War
Between the States.

“To Tm: CLERGY AND
OTHERS: The foregoing
Hymn and Music, it is
hoped, may be somewhat

used in divine worship on the approaching Thanks-
giving, and so prove an aid in the observance of
the day. Accordingly copies are circulated gra-
tuitously for the use (if they be acceptable) of

438

 

Hymn for Thanksgiving

GIVE THANKS , ALL. YE PEOPLE

wan m b '
Esp—“in; W.AMuhlenberg

——
O"—
-
g ‘I
-

illl

(
~ g_. ‘

Q -
—8 —..-u
-—:-——“

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-...... MM"  ........‘

 

Second Verse
“Our guilt and transgressions remember no more;
Peace, Lord! Righteous Peace, of Thy gift we implore;
And the Banner of Union, restored by Thy Hand,
Be the Banner of Freedom o’er All in the Land.”

Choirs and Leaders of Congregations. Should
those, to whom they are thus sent, like them suf-
ficiently to desire to make some return, they can

(Continued- on page 479)

Gifts Are Not Always Brought by Santa

Eve, there is a merry

tinkling of sleigh bells as
Santa Claus drives up in a
sleigh drawn by eight rein—
deer. _He drives from roof to
roof, pausing just long enough
to climb down each chimney.

From a huge pack on his back
he fills the children’s stock—

IN AMERICA on Christmas

ings with toys and goodies. Gifts that are too large
to be stuffed into the stockings are tied on an ever-
green tree covered with tinsel, lighted candles and
beautiful Christmas tree ornaments.

This is Christmas in America, but it is not
always Santa who brings the gifts to children in

other lands.

The Dutch children anxiously await the arrival
on Christmas Eve of St. Nicholas. He was the
Bishop of Myra, so he is dressed in the traditional

Some of the ways in which gifts are dis-
tributed in countries around the world
are mentioned in this article, reprinted
from Therristmas Book published last
year by the National Recreation Associa-
tion. The booklet contains many sugges-
tions for the celebration of Christmas.
and information on traditions surrounding
the Christmas season. Copies are avail-
able from the Association at 50 cents.

ybishop’s robes of black, wears a

'mitre, and carries the crozier. He
rides a white horse and is accom—

panied by Black Peter,
his page boy. Instead of
hanging up their stock-
ings to hold the gifts,
the Dutch children place
their wooden shoes in
the chimney corner be—
fore going to bed. On
the window sills they
leave a bunch of hay for
“Sleipner,” the white
horse. It is customary
for St. Nicholas to over—
turn chairs and leave
the room in general con—
fusion for Christmas
morning.

St. Nicholas came to
America with the Dutch.
It is said that one of
the early ships carrying
the emigrants to the New
World had as its ship’s
head a St. Nicholas.

The English children
look for a Santa Claus

In Sweden the birds receive
the largest number of gifts

 

FREE RENT FOR BIRDS

Little birds roost in my

Clmri stmas “tree,

For there's warmth and light

And the rent is freel

- who closely resembles our

own. They also find gifts tied
to a green Christmas tree, but
this custom has been in effect
only since Queen Victoria
was a young bride. She mar-
ried Albert, a German prince,
and it was he who introduced
this Christmas custom to
England from Germany.

Boxing Day, December 26th, is a true old Eng-
lish custom. It is on this day that everyone gives
and receives gifts in boxes. On this day, too, the
famous fox 'hunts take place.

In Finland, Santa has elves who pass out gifts
for him. This generous group is known as Waine—
moinen and Akko.

Grandfather Frost accompanies Babuchka in a
sleigh on Christmas Eve in Russia. She is a young
and beautiful girl and it is she who brings the gifts. ‘

There is no Santa Claus in Italy.
Instead they have a beneficent old
witch,,.Befona, who sails through

', - the air on a broom stick
on Christmas Eve. Her
favorite gift is a doll,
for she once tried to
present the doll of her
own dead child to the
Christ as He lay in the
manger. She leaves her
presents beside the
hearth for the children.

Brazil has Papa Noel,
very much like Santa.
He wears a red suit and
travels in a sleigh drawn
by reindeer. However,
he enters ‘the house
through a window in-

“. stead of the chimney.

It is an angel who
leaves the gifts in Czech—
oslovakia. She descends
on a golden cord to ac-
company Santa.

In Scandinavia gifts.
are distributed during

(Continued on page 482)
439

Christmas Novelties

tor Everyone

By MARGUERITE ICKIS

L THE PEOPLE—thousands upon thousands—-

L

A who each year call for a return to the ideals
of the old-fashioned Christmas and who have
loudly deplored the commercialization of our most
beautiful festival day, now have a golden oppor-

tunity to prove their sincerity by their works.
This is not the time for a Christmas estimated
in terms of dollars and cents, a Christmas accord-
ing to the “gold standard.” There are priorities,
shortages, and many other patriotic reasons, as
well as considerations of good taste, which dictate
a simple Christmas, home style. With our young
men in jeopardy all over the globe, ostentation and
luxury are out of place for us who remain behind.

There are, however, many appropriate and de-
lightful things that we can do to make our homes
attractive and to provide recreation for the
younger members of the family. A few sugges-
tions are given here. We venture to say that if
you try to create a special Christmas for your-
selves, using home talents and ingenuity, you will
want to keep on doing it and you will never be
willing to return to the “store” kind of Christmas

again.

Christmas Tree Ornaments

If you are looking for new ideas for decorating
your Christmas tree this year—and you may want
a substitute orna-
mentforthe
glass balls made
in Japan—you
will find the orna-
ments suggested
here attractive
and easy to dec-
orate. They are
made from small
mirrors, the type
carried in wom-
en’s purses, and
if you can find
them silvered on

440

DID-3:0” gs. l-‘n-p'
w.'.:u;:}1'.'.‘:’.'.t 1°
'::":-. - 2.7;;
:.\',_:-.;:.}-.J' ,-..:.

«I vs“
'- a'ng-

 

 

  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

Ask your friends for their pocket mirrors
and turn them into Christmas tree ornaments

both sides they will be more effective on the tre
Almost everyone owns a few mirrors—if not, bor
row them. They can be cleaned and returned .
the end of the Christmas season.

The ornaments are made by cutting scenes fro I
Christmas cards and transferring them to the mir
ror as shown in the illustration. Use paper cem
or glue for attaching the pictures to the glass.
frill around the edge of the mirror of old lace 0
paper doilies gives the effect of an old greeti
card. Attach a piece of string in the form of
loop at the t
so it can be ‘
tached to the tre
You might ha
your orname
near the color
light bulbs 0
the tree so the
will reflect tl
light while th
are burning.

Greeting Card

Spatter Print
(Figure A). An

CHRISTMAS NOVELTIES FOR EVERYONE 441:

easy way to make greeting cards with a large
group of children is to cut a number of Christmas
Isymbols, such as stars, bells, churches, reindeer,
poinsettias from old Christmas cards, and have

em available for the children to use for designs.

f course it is more desirable for the children to
.esign their own cards, providing they have had
pome art experience.

Next select the Christmas colors from a pack—
tge of colored construction paper. They are blue,

ed, green, and you might use black. Cut each
Sheet into several smaller pieces and fold in the
lenter. Decorate the top and write a greeting in-
side with white lead pencil.

To decorate the top, .take several spoons of
Iwhite tempera paint and dilute it with a half cup
of water. Place the mixture in a spray gun that
may be purchased at the ten cent store and set it
aside for spattering the backgrounds of the cards
later.

Prepare a table on which the spattering is to be
done by covering it with wrapping paper or news—
papers to prevent the paint from staining the top.
l sk the children to select several Christmas sym-
ols and place them on the front of their cards in
uch a way that the result will be a balanced
esign. They may hold the cutouts in place with
traight pins, or if the children are very young
hey may put a bit of rubber cement on the under-
art of the cutout and remove it later by rubbing
he surface with their fingers.

Spray the background with the white paint, and
vhen it is dry it will give the effect of falling snow.
emove the cutouts as soon as the paint has dried.

Applique (Figure B). This card is made by
tting a design from different colored construc-
'on paper (cloth may also be used) and cement-
g them on a piece of plain blue, red, or green
per. The design should be a winter scene, and
e suggest you cover the front with a piece of
lear cellophane paper. Spray it with white paint
efore attaching it to the side of the card and it
'ill add falling snowflakes to the scene.

 
 
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  

A Christmas Terrarium

This little terrarium is suggested as a suitable
ift for a business man

   
 

uring the Christmas
olidays. It is
ade from a
quare of wood
any half inch

soft wood is suitable) in the center of which .a hole
is cut as shown in the illustration. Attach it ‘to a
base made from white birch or any other-'wood
that is available. '

Place a piece of mistletoe or holly in‘-the center
and make it into an attractive arrangement by
adding a small red satin bow, small pine cones,‘
snail shells, or any natural material you have at
hand. You may even add a bit of earth and plant
partridge berries with small ferns or mosses if you
wish to use your terrarium for a longer season.
Cover the top, front, and back with'a piece of clear
cellophane paper. Seal it at the sides to keep out
the air. The cellophane will hold 'the plants in
place and enough air will seep in at the bottom to
allow the plants to breathe. -

Fruit Ornaments

A favorite decoration for Christmas trees in
many Euro-
peancountries
is f‘rui‘t, par-
ticularly' red
apples. that
are at ‘their
best during
the holiday
season. Here
is a suggestion for
a way to add 'color-
to your tree with-
out having the ap-
ples weigh down the branches, the only disadvan-
tage being that you cannot offer them to your
guests for refreshments!

   
 

Select an apple (or any other fruit) and grease
it.with vaseline. Prepare a pile of paper torn into
small pieces and a bowl of cooked starch. After
the starch is cool, dip the pieces of paper into the

I bowl and then place them on the apple. Continue

until the entire apple is covered. To make the
ornament strong, add two more layers. If you are
working with small children we suggest you use a
different kind of paper for each layer so the chil-
dren will know when each is completed. If you can
afford to use paper towels for the final layer the
result will be an almost white background and Ia
surface that is suitable for painting.

To remove the covering after it is dry, cut
around the edge with a sharp knife and remove
half at a time. Seal together again by adding a
few more pieces of paper that have been dipped
into the starch.

442 CHRISTMAS NOVELTIES FOR EVERYONE

\Vhen completely dry, decor-
ate with tempera paints or oils.
You may cover them with peas-
ant designs, if you wish, instead
of imitating the fruit. Be sure to
add a piece of string in the form
of a loop at the top if you wish
to hang them on your tree.

Traditional Panels

Panels depicting traditional
Christmas scenes, such as haul-
ing the yule log, the Three
Wise Men, or bringing in the
boar’s head (appropriate in a
dining room), make effective decorations for the
home or recreation center. They may be made on
ordinary wrapping paper and hung in a prominent
part of the room. Attach them to the wall with
Scotch tape, which will not mar the paint, and be
sure to allow several inches for a border. Make a
frame of Christmas greens, as is shoxvn in the illus-
tration, and be sure the paper extends to the outer
edge. You may find many beautiful scenes on your
Christmas cards for this purpose. To enlarge the
picture, cover the card with one-quarter inch
squares. Count the number of squares in the illus-
tration and then draw the same number of squares
on your panel, except that the squares must be
larger. That is, if your panel is ten times larger
than the card, each square would be two and one-
half inches. Proceed as suggested in the illustration.

Decorate with Christmas Packages

Very often your Christmas gifts arrive early.
Many of them will be
beautifully wrapped in
decorated paper and gar-
nished with bows of satin
ribbon or sprays of pine
and holly.

Vary the custom of
piling them around the
Christmas tree or stack-
ing them on a table by
arranging them as Christ-

mas decorations for
your door or above
the mantel. Tie them
together with streamers of narrow ribbon (use red,

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

blue or green according to your color scheme) cut
into different lengths, and bring them together at
the top. Add a large bow or branch of evergreen

 

at the top as shown in the il-
lustration.

 
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 

Table Decorations

Candle holders, napkin rin -'
place card holders, and coast
made from white birch or a
other decorative wood are n .
appropriate for your Christ
table. The only finish require
is rubbing with several grad
of sandpaper and a coat of fl 0
wax. Smooth off the roug
places and edges with a pe
knife. Decorate with bunches -
red berries, pine cones,'and seed pods held i
place with red ribbon.

Novel favors may be made by painting :1 sm
bottle to represent a p
permint candy stick. A
a piece of paper shaped

/ \‘ ( ashade
g p it will
semble
table la

  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

l

A l m 0
any Chri
mas sym

in two pieces with only a may be

small fraction of each edge
left attached, as shown in
the illustration. Fold the
two parts together so they
match exactly and keep the
fold at the top of the picture.
If they are cut from stiff paper,.
they will stand if tiny slits are
cut in a rectangular piece of
paper for the base, and the feet
are forced into them at the
proper place.

CHRISTMAS NOVELTIES FOR EVERYONE 443

Stained Glass Windows

I A stained glass window can be used in so many
aways during the‘
'thristmas season, we
'Iuggest you add one
your list of house
ecorations. You can
ake it as elaborate
s you wish, but it is
etter to keep the
esign simple, par-
icularly the detail.
early every commu-
ity has a church
ith stained glass
vindows that will
elp you with your
asic design; you
eed not include the whole design but select the
ection that will lend itself best to your own win-
ow. Be sure to copy exactly the leaded lines (the
ines between the different colored glass), as they
ill indicate the type of window—Gothic—Rose—
r other early architectural design.

To make the Window, cut a piece of wrapping
aper the exact size of the glass (if it is broken
tp into small panes, cut the paper to fit each pane).
Outline the different areas first in your design
With black crayon to represent the lead that seals
he glass together. Fill in the rest of the design
ith different colored crayons, using the brightest
olors in your assortment. When the color work
3 completedLrub the surface lightly with a clean
ag, the center of which has been dipped into
inachine oil (a light oil). The oil will dissolve the
trayon somewhat and blend
the colors together. Paste the
'fferent parts to the glass in

e window by adding library
paste around the under edges.

   
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
    
   
  

 

A Bulletin Board

A bulletin board covered
with your prettiest Christmas
cards can become an attractive
wall decoration either in your
home or at the community
center. To add interest to the
display, change the cards sev-
eral times during the holidays
and arrange them according
to subject. A display of hand—
ldecorated cards will interest

 

Be sure to save your most beautiful
cards so that when Christmas is over
you can enioy them with your friends The

your friends who make things. Photographs will
appeal to others who have cameras. The ones
decorated by famous artists might become a game;
suggest your friends guess the ‘name of the artist
who painted certain pictures.

The board can be made from heavy cardboard
bound around the edges with an inexpensive
wooden molding. Make the background a Christ-
mas color.

A Light for Your Doorstep

The suggestion comes from. Mexico, where this
lighting device is used during
the festival season rather than
for Christmas. It is made
from a large paper bag, the
front of which is decorated
with a Christmas wreath. The
center part is cut away and
a piece of cellophane pasted
in its place. The bottom of
the bag is filled with three or
four inches of sand and the
base of a candle is forced down through the center.
The sand acts as a holder for the candle and a
weight to keep the bag from being blown over by
the wind. These simple lights are placed along the
edges of fiat roofs in Mexico, and the candles in-
side the bags give them a soft glow.

 

An Accordion Christmas Tree

This little tree is made from a triangular-shaped
piece of paper folded in one-half inch accordion
pleats as shown in the illustration. An one-eighth
inch dowel is pushed down through the center to

‘ hold it in the shape of a tree.
Set it in a block of wood so it
will remain standing.
trees are especially

 

444. CHRISTMAS NOVELTIES FOR EVERYONE

beautiful when made
from colored metallic
paper such as may be
purchased for wrapping
Christmas packages.
Use them for mantel
decorations or as a
frieze around the room.

A Peep Show

A peep show placed in a Christmas box will
amuse both young and old. Cut pictures of people
from old Christmas cards for the characters and
place them in a snow scene made from cotton and
artificial snow. A tiny mirror can serve as a lake
and miniature houses or trees, if placed correctly,
will give perspective to the scene. Cut several holes
in the lid of the box and cover with yellow or blue
cellophane.

If the scene is made in tiny Christmas boxes
they make an interesting ornament for your tree.
Hang them at “eye level” so a person may peep at
them while standing.

Candle Ruffs

0 Many of the
stores featured
“candle ruffs" last

year to be placed

around the bases

of candles. They

are made from

rather stiff glossy

paper of a color

that would blend well with the shade of the candle.
The object of the ruff, besides being decorative,
is to catch the candle drippings, thus protecting the
table cloth. Candle ruffs were
used many years ago by the
Moravian Church and other or-
ganizations for their candle cere-
monies. They caught the tallow
drippings as the lighted candles
were carried by children and
protected the hands and carpets.
To make the ruffs, select a
piece of paper 3” x 12” (the
size depends on the size of the
candle) and fold it in the center
lengthwise. Cut it into y,” slits
all the way along being sure the
fold is at the top of the slit. Cut
each slit within y," inch of the
bottom and wind around and

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
    
   
  
   

around the base of th
candle. Fluff out t1
loops when complet
and seal the edges wit
paper cement.

PaperBag Suggesti .

Small paper bags m
be used either as an ornament for your Christn ,
tree, or they may be put to a more utilitarian u
by filling them with candy before hanging them 0
the tree. Decorate
them with all sorts
of Christmas motifs
either with crayons
or paints.

The bag shown
here is decorated
with colored con-
struction paper. Sev—
eral colors are used
to make up a design
of an animal head
which is appliqued
on the bag with paper
cement. The design
extends beyond the
edge of the bag which
tends to make it more
amusing,

Paper Cutouts

Pictures of animals, birds or children cut fr
colored paper and mounted on a piece of Chri
mas green are easy to make and very effective a
a Christmas tree. You may also make them fr
cloth or felt. Cut a silhouette of the creature y
wish to make and cover it I
both sides with bits of color
make the complete picture. A
a loop of string at the top
fasten it to the tree.

 

Are you making your Christ
cards and decorations this
If so, we suggest you secure
following bulletins from the
tional Recreation Associati
‘ ‘Make Your Own Chri stmasT
Ornaments”( M. P. 257, I
“Suggestions for Novel Chri
mas Cards”  P. 290, 5¢
and “Thanksgiving and Chri
mas Decorations from Card
and Woods” (M. P. 284, 15¢

l

An Old-Fashioned Christmas Tree

out in the familiar trappings of childhood, here

I F YOU WANT a homespun Christmas tree decked
are some hints that may be helpful:

Paper lanterns are made by folding an oblong
sheet of paper lengthwise and cutting it into %”
slits, leaving a border about an inch wide. (See
Figure A.) Unfold and paste into a paper cylinder
at the top and bottom. Add handle at the top. The
same cut may be made into a medallion ; leave wide
ruff and cut the lantern in half.

Christmas cookies will recall an old-fashioned
Christmas. Cut the rolled dough into different
shapes and attach little string handles before bak—
ing. Figure B.)

Christmas scenes, cut from Christmas cards,
may be pasted on the top of
the cookies after they are baked
with a paste made from pow-
dered sugar and cold water.

Paper chains will recall your
kindergarten days. They are
made by cutting tiny strips of
coated paper about six or eight
inches long and looped into an
oval. They are 100ped through
each other before pasting to-
gether to form a chain. (F ig-
ure C.)

The chain's might be made
from red, white and blue paper
this year as a patriotic decoration. Another varia-
tion is to edge each chain with gilt paint. The
chains may also be made from popcorn.

Cornucopias are used to fill with nuts or candies.
Cut heavy metallic paper into 9” squares and roll
into shape as shown in Figure D. Finish off the
edge with Scotch tape. To
vary the cone, fringe the top
or reinforce the edge with
red or green passe partout
tape.

Popcorn balls. Simmer to-
gether % cup of molasses, %
cup of corn syrup, and V;
tablespoon of vinegar until it

is thick enough to form a
hard ball in cold water. Add

 

I'Will the Christmas wreaths decorating
your home this year be made by some of
the older members of the household with
the children assisting? Will there be
many homemade gifts on the tree Christ-
mas morning? These occasions give an
opportunity for the family to function as
a unit with the creative instinct con-
trolling the thought and action of every
member."—From Out Parks, issued by
the Union County, N. J.I Park System.

to this a heaping spoon of butter and pour over the
salted popcorn. When cool enough to handle, at-
tach ribbon loops and mold into balls. You may
want to wrap them in colored cellophane.

Gold nuggets. Cut English walnuts in half, be-
ing careful not to break the shell. Remove the nut
meats and insert a little Christmas scene cut from
Christn1as cards. Gild the outside and attach a
loop of gold string with plastic glue.

No old-fashioned tree is complete without a
candy cane. Give it a touch of glamour with a

gay crimson bow.

Your Christmas Candles

If you blow out the flame of your candles upward,
they will not smoke.

When candles are too large
for holders, do not cut them
down. Hold them under hot
water to soften them, then
pinch them to size with your
fingers, and press them into
the holder.

To remove candle drippings
from a table cloth, dip first into
very cold water. This will
make the wax brittle so it will
scale by rubbing the cloth to-
gether with the hands.

Christmas Tree Hints

To make a white Christmas tree, use any cold
water paint containing casein. Spray the paint on
with a spray gun that may be purchased at the ten
cent store If you have trouble with the paint

adhering to the tree, spray first with alcohol.
This will dissolve some of the

wax coating on the pine
needles.

' Soap Hakes poured into a
large bowl and mixed with
one cup of water will make
artificial snow that will last
several days. Beat the mix-
ture with an egg beater and
pile the snow on top of the

branches with your hands.
(Continued on page 476)

445

44+ CHRISTMAS NOVELTIES FOR EVERYONE

beautiful when made
from colored metallic
paper such as may be
purchased for wrapping
Christmas packages.
Use them for mantel
decorations or as a
frieze around the room.

A Peep Show

A peep show placed in a Christmas box will
amuse both young and old. Cut pictures of people
from old Christmas cards for the characters and
place them in a snow scene made from cotton and
artificial snow. A tiny mirror can serve as a lake
and miniature houses or trees, if placed correctly,
will give perspective to the scene. Cut several holes
in the lid of the box and cover with yellow or blue
cellophane.

If the scene is made in tiny Christmas boxes
they make an interesting ornament for your tree.
Hang them at “eye level” so a person may peep at
them while standing.

Candle RuFfs

0 Many of the
stores featured
“candle ruffs” last

year to be placed

around the bases

of candles. They

are made from

rather stiff glossy

paper of a color

that would blend well with the shade of the candle.
The object of the ruff, besides being decorative,
is to catch the candle drippings, thus protecting the
table cloth. Candle ruffs were
used many years ago by the
Moravian Church and other or-
ganizations for their candle cere-
monies. They caught the tallow
drippings as the lighted candles
were carried by children and
protected the hands and carpets.
To make the rufTs, select a
piece of paper 3”}: 12” (the
size depends on the size of the
candle) and fold it in the center
lengthwise. Cut it into %” slits
all the way along being sure the
fold is at the top of the slit. Cut
each slit within V4” inch of the
bottom and wind around and

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
  
   

around the base of t
candle, Fluff out tl
loops when complet
and seal the edges wi
paper cement.

PaperBag Suggestio

Small paper bags m
be used either as an ornament for your Christn
tree, or they may be put to a more utilitarian u
by filling them with candy before hanging them 0
the tree. Decorate
them with all sorts
of Christmas motifs
either with crayons
or paints.

The bag shown
here is decorated
with colored con-
struction paper. Sev-
eral colors are used
to make up a design
of an animal head
which is appliqued
on the bag with paper
cement. The design
extends beyond the
edge of the bag which
tends to make it more
amusing,

Paper Cutouts

Pictures of animals, birds or children cut fr
colored paper and mounted on a piece of Chri
mas green are easy to make and very effective a
a Christmas tree. You may also make them fr
cloth or felt. Cut a silhouette of the creature y
wish to make and cover it i
both sides with bits of color
make the complete picture. A
a loop of string at the top
fasten it to the tree.

 

Are you making your Christi
cards and decorations this y .
If so, we suggest you secure
following bulletins from the
tional Recreation Associati
“Make Your Own ChristmasT.
Ornaments”( M. P. 257, I
“Suggestions for Novel Chri
mas Cards” (M. P. 290, 5‘
and “Thanksgiving and Chri

mas Decorations from Card
and \Voods” (M. P. 284, 15¢

An Old-Fashioned Christmas Tree

out in the familiar trappings of childhood, here

IF YOU WANT a homespun Christmas tree decked
are some hints that may be helpful:

Paper lanterns are made by folding an oblong

sheet of paper lengthwise and cutting it into %”
slits, leaving a border about an inch wide. (See
Figure A.) Unfold and paste into a paper cylinder
at the top and bottom. Add handle at the top. The
same cut may be made into a medallion ; leave wide
ruff and cut the lantern in half.

Christmas cookies will recall an old-fashioned
Christmas. Cut the rolled dough into different

’ shapes and attach little string handles before bak—

ing. Figure B.)
Christmas scenes, cut from Christmas cards,
may be pasted on the top of
the cookies after they are baked
with a paste made from pow-
dered sugar and cold water.

Paper chains will recall your
kindergarten days. They are
made by cutting tiny strips of
coated paper about six or eight
inches long and looped into an
oval. They are looped through
each other before pasting to-
gether to form a chain. (F ig-
ure C.)

The chain's might be made
from red, white and blue paper
this year as a patriotic decoration. Another varia-
tion is to edge each chain with gilt paint. The
chains may also be made from popcorn.

Cornucopias are used to fill with nuts or candies.
Cut heavy metallic paper into 9” squares and roll
into shape as shown in Figure D. Finish off the
edge with Scotch tape. To
vary the cone, fringe the top
or reinforce the edge with
red or green passe partout
tape.

Popcorn balls. Simmer to-
gether yz cup of molasses, V2
cup of corn syrup, and V2
tablespoon of vinegar until it

is thick enough to form a
hard ball in cold water. Add

 

"Will the Christmas wreaths decorating
your home this year be made by some of
the older members of the household with
the children assisting? Will there be
many homemade gifts on the tree Christ-
mas morning? These occasions give an
opportunity for the family to function as
a unit with the creative instinct con-
trolling the thought and action of every
member."—From Out Parks, issued by
the Union County. N. J.I Park System.

to this a heaping spoon of butter and pour over the
salted popcorn. When cool enough to handle, at-
tach ribbon loops and mold into balls. You may
want to wrap them in colored cellophane.

Gold nuggets. Cut English walnuts in half, be-
ing careful not to break the shell. Remove the nut
meats and insert a little Christmas scene cut from
Christmas cards. Gild the outside and attach a
loop of gold string with plastic glue.

No old-fashioned tree is complete without a
candy cane. Give it a touch of glamour with a
gay crimson bow.

Your Christmas Candles

If you blow out the flame of your candles upward,
they will not smoke.

When candles are too large
for holders, do not cut them
down. Hold them under hot
water to soften them, then
pinch them to size with your
fingers, and press them into
the holder.

To remove candle drippings
from a table cloth, dip first into
very cold water. This will
make the wax brittle so it will
scale by rubbing the cloth to-
gether with the hands.

Christmas Tree Hints

To make a white Christmas tree, use any cold
water paint containing casein. Spray the paint on
with a spray gun that may be purchased at the ten
cent store.' If you have trouble with the paint

adhering to the tree, spray first with alcohol.
This will dissolve some of the

wax coating on the pine
needles.

' Soap flakes poured into a
large bowl and mixed with
one cup of water will make
artificial snow that will last
several days. Beat the mix-
ture with an egg beater and
pile the snow on top of the

branches with your hands.
(Continued on page 476)

445

448 THE APPLE IS KING!

List these six items, \Vhat and How and When.
etc.. down the left side of each team’s paper, with
one letter for each item: A-P-P-L—E-S. The first
journalists write down “\Vhat” happened, begin-
ning with the letter A. The papers are folded over
once, passed on, and the next persons describe
“How” beginning with P. So it goes until the
news stories are concocted. \Vhen you read it
aloud inserting proper linking words, bestow the
first prize on the team of six reporters who com-
posed the most hilarious story.

At the fourth tree the traveling pickers are re-
arranged into teams of four. Number one peels an
apple, number two quarters it, number three cores
it and drops it in a bowl of cold water, number
four takes it out and blithefully eats it. First team
finished wins, and no fair removing half the apple
with the core!

Gathering in the Harvest is another relay which
could be used under the fourth tree. Half the

group is blindfolded while their partners stand.

against the wall with five apples at their feet. Each
blindfolded one takes an apple from his partner’s
pile and places it as far in front of him as he can
step. The second apple he plants two strides away
and so on until all five apples are out in a straight
line, as directed by his partner’s wild cackling.
Each time he weaves off in the wrong direction or
becomes hopelessly confused as to the proper ap-
ples, she cackles like a distracted hen. Then comes
even more of a problem for now he must gather
in his apples and replace them in the pile. The
more wayward his errors, the louder the sound
effects, leading soon to utter riot.

Creative Corner

A more quiet game at the fifth tree requires in-
genuity and skill. Equip each player with one
apple and a healthy supply of raisins, nuts, dates,
peppers, peels, cloves, gum drops, carrots, tooth-
picks, and pins. Let each artist cut and carve and
pin to his heart’s content until some prize creatures
are produced. Two apples for the cleverest!

Or if the guests spurn the arts and crafts, ar-
range a problematic miniature golf course and let
them knock apples about the route. Old pipes,
measuring cups, cardboard boxes will fit together
as a good golf course. Use crab apples for balls.

The sixth tree is the scene of a final bit of exer-
cise. Racers poke a table knife—rather dull—into
an apple on the floor, speed down to the goal line
and back without dropping it. If it bounces onto
the floor, over again the racer starts. The whole

  
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  

team uses the same battered apple, which comp
cates matters a bit toward the end.

A more subdued race for this corner would .
carrying a large apple in a teaspoon around I
racetrack. -

Ideas for Good Measure

There are hundreds of other ideas which
be sprung on your apple pickers. The Big A n
can be revived for the young fry, or good 0
fashioned apple bobbing, with the old English -
sion of lying face down on a bench. (In the jo
medieval times a favorite trick was to lift up t
foot of the bench and dunk“ the unsuspecting p
son’s face.)

Relays are always good. Pass the apple fr
hand to hand down the line and back again w'
eyes shut. Better yet, pass it in a teaSpoon held .
the handle in the teeth.

Send the guests out to pick apples hidden
over the room. Special prize for finding the G01
Apple. Stunts can be tagged onto the fruit .
therein lies the fate of the plucker.

Set apples on tripod toothpick bases and let x
guests bowl apples down the alleys. Carve sc
ing numbers on the sides of the apple pins.

For mental exercise, work out a little telegr
with words starting with A-P-P-L-E-S. Gues'
the number of apples in a bushel, the number
toothpicks stuck in an apple, the number of se
in a jar are always popular problems. And r
you know that if you pare an apple and throw .
peeling over your right shoulder, it will form
initial of the person you’re going to mar
Enough said.

Prizes can be both practical and pleasing. A
of crab apple jelly, a jug of cider, a bush-cl
apples, or a juicy apple pie. '

For feminine sessions, require luscious a
dishes as admission fee and later auction them
for charity.

Refreshments should fit the purse and the '
ple. Candied apples on sticks or apples roa
over coals outdoors will keep youngsters b
while smooth golden cider will draw a crowd
the mill. For a small supper party, serve wal
salad in hollow apple cups. Economical, and u
too. To please a masculine heart, stuff apples
sausage and bake in the oven.

Let your imagination roam over this list .
supplement or substitute as you please: apple
apple tarts, apple turnover, apple Betty, apple 1

(Continued on page 476)

 

uChristmas Just Pops!"

By MARTHA MACON BYRNES

Recreation Department
Memphis. Tennessee

1'

Memphis greets the holidays
early in November and the ex-
citement lasts ‘until another
year is ushered in at the big

New Year's Eve Watch Party

We have hardly finished gathering up the corn

shucks and skeleton bones left over from Hal-
lowe’en when there is a burst of excitement—and
Christmas is here—a long Christmas.

The Christmas Toy Sh0ps open early in No-
vember at the various community centers. Here
discarded toys are received in every conceivable
condition of old age and neglect. Santa’s Helpers
gather at odd times to recondition and reconstruct
the broken pieces into “almost new” toys for less
fortunate children. Material is donated by inter-
ested citizensr—a handful of nails here, a can of
paint there, and scraps for a doll’s outfit from an-
other source.

These made-over toys are never given out at the
community center Christmas trees, but are taken
under cover of darkness to the homes of the little
children who are to receive them on Christmas
morning, And it is no difficult task to ascertain
beforehand if Johnny wants a red wagon or a yel—
low scooter, or whether Katie’s doll is to have
golden curls and pinafore or red pigtails dangling
over a war worker’s coveralls.

With the Toy Shops in operation, we turn our

IN MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE, Christmas just pops!

 

lattention to the community center Christmas
Fairs. Patterned after a fair described in RECRE-

 

ATION magazine several years ago, these neighbor-
1hood festivals run for weeks before Christmas.
Young and old come to the community centers to
‘take advantage of the opportunity to make useful
and attractive articles for Christmas giving. The
handcraft rooms are always open with an instructor

 

on hand to assist in the making of anything from
bakeless fruit cakes to yo—yo’s.

These articles are displayed in each community
center at the Christmas Fair held several weeks
before Christmas in order to give others an oppor—
tunity to make similar articles in time for Decem-
ber twenty-fifth.

The display is attractively arranged in the audi-
toriums of the various community centers on a
Friday or Saturday evening and Christmas pro-
grams are presented by dramatic and glee clubs.
A living Christmas tree in front of each building
is illuminated for the first time on this date and
sheds a holiday welcome every night thereafter
until New Year’s.

At Thanksgiving time the whole city joins in a
“Spirit of Christmas” parade with electrically
lighted floats portraying some theme of the Christ—
mas season and with Santa Claus himself en-
throned on the last and most elaborate float of all.

The children of the Recreation Department form
the vanguard of the larger floats and present a
miniature parade of their own. Some five hun-
dred strong, gaily bedecked in scarlet and gold,
blue and silver, or green and orange, they march
singing down the streets with small floats typify-
ing the true Spirit of Christmas. One year it
would be “Sing a Song of Christmas,” another
time “Christmas Toys,” again “Christmas Stor-
ies,” but always there is the rhythm of singing
and marching feet.

After Thanksgiving the real Christmas program
starts in the community centers for children and

449

450 “CHRISTMAS JUST POPS !”

adults. It is then that the Christmas programs are
held, the Toy Shops are in full swing, and the
handcraft room takes on more and more a holiday
atmosphere.

Each group, or club, plans and executes its own
Christmas program or party for the members and
their invited guests. Santa Claus visits the small
children’s play classes and adroitly shuffles the
contents of his pack so that no child receives the
toy his mother has brought over earlier in the week.

\Vith the “Feast for the Birds,” our feathered
friends are not forgotten and the feeding stations
erected on the playgrounds each year on St. Val—
entine’s Day are. filled with bread crumbs, grain
and other goodies. The birds and squirrels have
a Christmas tree of their own with strings of pop-
corn, cranberries, nutmeats, cake, apples and any—
things else the children bring to the community
center for this purpose.

The week immediately preceding Christmas finds
the carolers wending their way
at dusk, stopping at the homes
where a Christmas light in the
window is a request for a carol.
Dressed in scarlet capes and
hoods, the singers, with mem—
bers of the Boys’ Band, tra-
verse a different route each
day, singing the old and new
Christmas carols for shut—ins
and other friends of the com-
munity centers. Once from each community cen—
ter during the week the clear sweet notes of a
trumpet sounding on the evening air give notice
- that the Christmas Carol Truck is near. Doors are
flung open as children and adults come out from
their homes to enjoy the lovely Christmas picture
of the carolers in their illuminated truck covered
with cellophane and to enjoy the music of chil-
dren's voices singing the songs that are ever old,
yet ever new at Christmas time.

The honor of being selected as a Christmas
caroler is one greatly to be prized, and each com-
munity center vies with the other in presenting
the best singers. The costumes, worn over the
children’s wraps, give the effect of a living Christ—
mas card and the Carol Truck has become an out-
standing feature of the Memphis Christmas
program.

The truck tours the neighborhood of the dif-
ferent community centers for two hours, stopping
while the children sing at homes and centers where
friends 'are gathered.

"Christmas has in it the potentialities
of great ioy for all people. I remem-
ber that the Wisemen and shepherds
thought that the Star of Bethlehem
was made for them. It was. It is
annually created for all who lift
their eyes above their own beloved

but local enterprises." —-Abbie
Graham in Time Oilr and On.

 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
      
   
    
   
  

The Christmas Eve tour of the carolers is c'
wide, honoring the Mayor, Park Commission ..-
ccutives and friends, and other members of .
official family. Like the English carolers of o
the children are treated with sweets at al -
every stop and on returning to the comnn
center are given hot chocolate before being t
home.

On Christmas Eve morning the entire recreat'
staff helps with the annual Goodfellow Chris
Tree Party at the Municipal Auditorium.
children of the community centers are pres
in a Christmas program with singing, games, .
stunts in. which all join. In the afternoon ther
a big Christmas tree at each center for all .-
children in the community. With the coopera '
of civic and neighborhood groups Santa C
visits each party and presents every child wi
small toy, fruit and candy. ‘

Christmas morning finds the community c *
quiet with only the ech
past activities—but the
after the fun starts anew!

Doll parties and a para
toys for the smaller chi a.
club parties for those not c
so young, and special C
mas parties for the older '
in the evening. Skating .
and candy pulls—popcor
apple roasts—stew pa '
some centers “where each child brings a car
onion, or a potato, and a grand pot of savo
results! Special menus are served for moth
grandmothers by the “Serve-a-Snack Club,”
Cook and Eat Club," and similar groups
boys and girls together learn the first princ'
homemaking and sociability.

Concerts of Christmas music, square
plays and pantomimes, athletic games, and-
wheel contests make up a busy program of
the Christmas holidays climaxed on the
of the old year with a big New Year’s Eve
Party at which mothers and fathers, '
daughters, children and grandparents frol'
the hours as another year is ushered in.

At last the party is over and only de '
and memories are left after two months’ f .
Tired, but gratified, staff members bid eac
a “Happy New Year” as they ring down t
tain on the last of the holiday program-r,
already there are visions of a bigger and 2‘
celebration for next Christmas! ‘

- Christmas Time in Danville

 
  
  

By GEORGE A. FAIRHEAD

‘IWHAT DOES your city F S . + d + {R . canopy over Redden
c1ty do at Chrlst- ormer "Penn .9" en. o. ecreahon Square, the strings of light
Danvuile. Illmous

mas time?” converging from the cor-

If this question had been ners to the center atop a
asked of any person living , , huge Christmas tree. At
in or near Danville, Illi— Here are some Of The T'hmgs WhIOh seventy-five foot intervals

nois, after the Christmas Danville. Illinois. does at Christ- a strand of lights over the

season of 1941, hls answer m as Hme. 6+ does your any do? mam streets teatured . a
would have been some- Chrlstmas star 1n the m1d-

thing like this: dle with a decorative cylin-
VVhat does Danville do at Christmas time? Well, der, interior lighted, suspended midway to the side—

I’ll tell you. First of all, its citizens get together walk on each side. All the wires were covered with

and see that everyone possible has a Merry, Merry fir tree sprigs and colored lights. This was some-

Christmas. This goal is attained in many varied thing new in Christmas lighting, and much of the

iways. cost may be regarded as a permanent investment
Danville’s street decorations last year were sec- since it can be used for several-years.

0nd to none in the Midwest. Tangible expression

'was given to the timeless spirit of “Peace on earth, Santa Claus Arrives

good will to-men” by the Christmas lighting and On December and Santa Claus was welcomed

'decorations featured throughout to town by a monstrous parade

I (tihe business fdlstruat. nghts anld The NaHva. in panhmime and through br1111antly11ghted streets.
ecoratlons orme a ver1tabe “owl has an indispensable place He arr1ved on schedule at 6:30

in most civic Christmas programs

 

5 Courtesy Recreation Department, Fort Worth, Texas

451

452 CHRISTMAS TIME IN DANVILLE

P. 111., and as he came in
from the North he was
preceded through the main
streets of the city by gaily
attired bands and drum
corps, high-stepping drum
majors and majorettes,
cleverly decorated floats,
riders on prancing horses,
militiamen, Sea Scouts,
Boy Scouts, weird figures
and animals with grotesque
heads, police officers and
motorcycles, youth groups carrying banners, and
children following Santa’s car to the Square.

Almost everyone in and near Danville came out
that night to welcome old St. Nick. They packed
the downtown streets all along the line of ’march.
At times the congestion in the streets stopped the
parade completely, but delays were instantly for-
gotten and forgiven once Santa came into view,
bowing and waving to the cheering thousands. He
was given an official welcome on the Square by
Mayor Frank P. Meyer when he greeted his thou—
sands of little and big admirers. He was then pre-
sented with the keys to his “home” on the Square
where he received visitors until the night before
Christmas.

Santa’s home resembled a white and green doll
house 10 by 12 feet, put together by bolts. This,
like the lights, can be used for years to come. A
white picket fence surrounded the house on three
sides, and the fourth side faced on the sidewalk in
front of the courthouse. A “resting” fence was
constructed on this side so that the passersby with
arms full of bundles could put them down and rest
as they gazed through the window at the gaily
decorated interior and at Santa Claus talking to
the children. At one end of the resting fence was
a miniature replica of the house which served as
Santa’s mailbox. His name hung from a candy
stick beside the entrance door so that there would
be no mistake about the identity of the resident!

The interior of the house was brightly decorated
with stockings hung on the fireplace, toys of all
descriptions on the shelves, gaily trimmed boxes,
and a beautifully lighted manger scene over the
mantel. Two aides to Santa Claus, dressed in ap-
propriate costumes, took charge of the children
and adults as they entered the magic house.

The names and addresses of all the children
were inscribed in Santa’s guest book. A small
painted clay figure of Santa was given to each of

"Christmas is a time for feeling. Let us. if
we must' be impassive. aloof from sentiment.
as adult as we can manage during the rest of
the year. At Christmas. let us be different.
'The world has such a need of ioy.
Arnold was but one of many who have realized
this through the ages. Neither was Alexander
Johnson alone in believing that 'only the icy
which is shared satisfies us.' The Christmas
season carries with it a poignant understand-
ing that not only is its foundation ioyl but
that children and their perennial ioy will

lead us. if we will let them." — Extract
from Editorial in Hobbies, December I94I.

 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
    
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  

the smaller children, while
a fir sprig with red cello-
phane berries was pinned
on each mother’s lapel. A,
loud speaker system was
set up so that those outsi _ -
the house could hear t .
little tots telling Santa
what they wanted fron
him for Christmas. Thi
was also used in connec
tion with a phonograpl
turntable in broadcastin
Christmas carols for the enjoyment of people 01
all sides of the Square. Every day for a fifteen
minute period Santa read the letters he had re
ceived and interviewed children over Radio Sta
tion VVDAN on a special hookup to the studio.

The house was open for nineteen days befor
Christmas from 3:00 to 5:00 on week days, fro
3 :00 to 8:00 on Saturdays, and on Monday a1
Tuesday preceding Christmas. A total of 9,11
children were registered in the guest book, an
many more went through the house without re
istering. Six hundred and thirty-four letters fr
boys and girls were read over the air during t
daily broadcast periods. Although Santa left f
his permanent home in the North on Decem
25th, his temporary home on Redden Square r
mained until after the first of the year as a r
minder of the happiness his visit had brought
young and old of the city. .

That the service men were not forgotten
proved by the smokes and sweets deposited
large cracker barrels which had been placed
over town for the use of shoppers. These \
collected and shipped to the commanding "
at Camp Forrest for distribution to the boys.

' Matthew

A Home Lighting Contest 0

To make the Spirit of Christmas more \ °
Spread, a home lighting contest was sponsored
the following divisions: Class A, unlimited
penditures; Class B, expenditures limited
$15.00; and Class C, expenditures limited to $5.
Awards were made in the basis of simplicity
purpose and design, and for successful acco
plishment in telling the Christmas story thr
artistic arrangements, tableau scenes, ligl
effects, decorated trees, window displays, and of
appropriate ideas.

The contest was governed by specific rules

(Continued on page 474)

HE FIRST comprehensive

study of municipal and

county parks in the United
tates was conducted in 192 5-
" by the National Recrea-
°on Association at the re-
‘uuest of the National Con-
erence on Outdoor Recrea-
ion. Much of the important
tatistical data gathered in
‘1e study was issued by the United States Bureau
f Labor Statistics. A second similar study was
nducted by the Association five years later with
he cooperation of the Bureau of Labor Statistics
rhich again published the findings. The usefulness
r these two reports demonstrated the value of a
heck-up on municipal and county parks at five-
rear intervals, and the National Recreation As-
ciation therefore made another study early in
936, this time with the cooperation of the Na—
iional Park Service which published much of the
nformation gathered in it.

At the close of the 1940 the National Park Ser-
ice initiated plans for a fourth inquiry concerning
iunicipal and county parks in the United States,

nd it enlisted the c00peration of the National
' ecreation Association and the American Institute
f Park Executives. It had been the expectation
f the National Park Service to publish the report,
ut in view of the insistent demands that govern-
nent printing be curtailed, the Service felt com-
elled to cancel its plans for printing it. At its
rgent request the National Recreation Associa—
ion agreed to make available the wealth of infor—
ation secured through the study.

This volume, with the preceding reports, affords

: basis for studying the deveIOpment of the mu-
icipal and county park movement since 1925.

The National Park Service assumed the major
esponsibility for gathering the data used in this
eport. The study was directed and the report

repared by George D. Butler of the National Rec-
reation Association. Valuable assistance in the
tudy was given by Ernest Buff, In, James B.

illiams, and other members of the staff of the Na-
ional Park Service and the National Recreation
Association. Effective cooperation in securing re-
ports was received from Chairman E. A. Gallup
and the other members of the Study Committee of

major findings

Hundreds of municipal and county park
officials and other public officials con-
tributed information on their parks for
this study' recently published under the
title, "Municipal and County Parks in
the United States
ground of the study and some of its
are presented here.
Copies are available at $l.50 each from
the National Recreation Association.

I 940." The back-

the American Institute of
Park Executives and .- from
Mr. A. D. McLarty, Execu-
tive Director, Illinois Asso-
ciation of Park Districts.
Special acknowledgement is
gratefully given to the Work
Projects Administration for
its assistance. Early in the
project it made available
workers at the office of the National Park Service
and later the Work Projects Administration of
New York City assigned workers to compile the
statistical data gathered in the study and to pre-
pare the tables appearing in this volume.

Municipal Parks

A total municipal park area of 441,121 acres was
reported in 1940 by 1,465 communities of 2,500
,or more population. The total number of proper-
ties reported was 19,336. Three hundred and
thirty-nine communities, or nearly one-fifth of the
cities reporting, did not own a single park. The
number of communities of 2,500 and upwards re-
porting on their parks in 1940 was much greater
than in the three preceding studies. .

Many cities still fall far short of attaining the
standard of one acre of park for each Ioo'popula—
tion. However, of the 1,465 cities reporting parks,
370, or more than one-fourth, have at least one
acre of park for each 100 people. The 1,282 cities
with at least one acre of park for each 2,000 popu-
lation have, on the average, one acre of park for
each 300 persons. An analysis of the twenty-five
per cent “best” cities in each of nine population
groups, judged according to their per capita park
acreage, shows that in the 321 cities comprising
this group the average number of persons per
acre is 47. As a group, these cities have double
the provision recommended in the standard of one
acre per 100 population. Nevertheless, much of
the park acreage in some of these cities lies out-
side the city limits.

Park Acreage Increases. The 1940 study, like
the two preceding it, reveals a marked and con-
tinual increase in park acreage since 1925-26
when the total was 248,627 acres. An analysis of
park acreage in 819 identical cities in 1935 and
1940 shows an average increase in their acreage

453

4S4 MUNICIPAL AND COUNTY PARKS

in the live-year period of 9 per cent. Compared
with an increase of 49 per cent in 655 identical
cities from 1925 to 1935 and a 38 per cent in-
crease in 534 cities from 1925 to 1930, it is evi-
dent that there was an appreciable slowing down
in the expansion of municipal park systems be-
tween 1935 and 1940.

Types of Park Properties. That park authorities
are recognizing more generally the major func-
tions served by the units in their park systems is
indicated by the fact that approximately 85 per
cent of the total park acreage reported in 1940 was
classified as to type. The two most numerous types
of properties are the small in-town parks and
neighborhood parks, which together represent 59
per cent of all properties, but only 10 per cent of
the total park acreage. More cities report neigh—
borhood parks than any other type, with small in-
town parks and children’s playgrounds following
in the order named . Large parks of more than 50
acres, reservations, and forest parks comprise 62
per cent of the total park acreage. The children’s
playground and the playfield,
the two types of areas that con-
tribute most to the day by day
recreational life of the pe0ple,
together comprise only 6 per
cent of the total park acreage,
or an average of one acre for
each 5,000 people. The average size of parks desig-
nated as children’s playgrounds is 2.6 acres and as
playtields 12.5 acres. The average city park, based
on reports of 16,464 properties, is an area of ap-
proximately 23 acres.

On thousand and thirty-one communities esti-
mated the value of their parks totaling 353,184
acres as $1,654,507,843, or an average value per
acre of $4,685. These figures would have been

much larger had estimates been received from,

New York and several other large cities. The
study furnished evidence that park authorities
were continuing their tendency to stress the acqui-
sition of large outlying properties. Approximately
one—third of the total municipal park acreage in
1940 was in parks entirely outside the city limits.
Most of these properties are reservations, forest
parks, or areas devoted to a particular function
such as golf or camping.

Park Use Centers. Facilities and Buildings. The
growing emphasis upon recreation activities is re-
flected in the large number of recreation facilities
and buildings, playgrounds, playfields, athletic
fields, and special park use centers. Evidence of

"We think of parks as works of art—

art out of doors. Nature's art. where
the rich and the poor can find seren-

Ity. calmness of mind. peace of soul'
poise." —Raymond C. M orrtson.

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
   

the mounting popularity of family and group '
nics is found in the wideSpread provision of cent
for this activity. Municipal parks contribute
the cultural, aesthetic, and educational interest.
our cities through the arboretums, planetari
special gardens, amphitheaters, and museums
cated on park property.

The number of visits was reported for only
small percentage of centers but they totaled
than 464 million. Supervised playgrounds
with more than 100 million, followed by p'
centers with 92 million, zoos with 80 million,
swimming centers with 79 million. Winter 5 a
centers, playfields, recreation buildings, and
letic fields each attracted more than 10 “mill
participants in 1940.

Information was secured on 36 types of facili
and buildings in parks, most of which are desig
to afford opportunity for diversified, invigora
activities for old and young, for summer and
ter, for individuals and for large groups. Te
courts, baseball diamonds, and softball diam
in the order named are
vided by more cities than .
of the other facilities.
popularity of tennis is fu
revealed by the fact that
tennis courts are reported
any other facility, nam
10,891. Picnic fireplaces number 9,103, 3
diamonds, 5,454, and baseball diamonds, 3,58

A comparison of the number of centers
facilities rep0rted in 1940 and in 1925-26 in
of 25,000 and over reveals the tremendous
development during the fifteen-year period. .
ery ranges, golf courses, ice skating areas,
ing ranges, softball diamonds, and toboggan
were reported by more than twice as many
in 1940. The same is true of amphitheat
museums, and administration buildings.
camps were the outstanding exception to t
eral trend. Archery ranges led all other f.
in the percentage of increase in the num
ported, namely, 592 per cent, followed by
ball with 504 per cent, amphitheaters with
cent, softball diamonds with 259 per ce
skating areas with 248 per cent. Other f
that more than doubled in number we
houses, golf courses, art museums, roque
swimming pools, tennis courts.

Zoos were reported by 140 cities, in 80 of
visits totaling 80 million were recorded in
The Bronx Zoo in New York City reports

MUNICIPAL AND COUNTY PARKS 455

largest number of specimens totaling 2,750 and

cost the most to operate in 1940, namely, $453,000.
Nearly two—thirds of all zoo specimens are in

cities over 250,000 population and more than
seven—eighths of all 1940 visitors were reported
in these cities.

Park Recreation Activities. Increasing leisure,
greater specialization in industrial jobs, and wide-
spread participation in recreation activities in
schools have contributed to the growing insistence
that park authorities furnish more and increasingly
diversified recreation opportunities. Reports on
forty-six activities were secured in the study. It
is significant that of the ten activities reported by
the largest number of cities, eight are active games
and sports. Picnicking, one of the others, com-
bines rest and activity. Band concerts alone involve
little or no exertion on the part of the listening

group.

Baseball heads the activities with 847 cities re-
porting, followed closely by softball in 840 cities.
Tennis, picnicking, and swimming follow in the
order named and horseshoe pitching is not far
behind. Table games and arts and crafts, eleventh
and twelfth on the list, are far ahead of other
activities that have long been associated with
parks. The recent mounting popularity of croquet,

badminton, and archery is reflected in the reports.

A comparison of the activities reported in 1935
and in 1940 shows a striking advance in the rela-
tive frequency of arts and crafts, motion pictures,
community singing, social dancing, swimming,
nature study, and fishing. Of the activities re-
ported on both years, swimming takes first place
and band concerts second, reversing the order in
which they appeared in the 1935 list.

Park Workers. The efficient operation of a
modern park system requires a staff of workers
with varied skills, training, and experience. The
increasing tendency of park authorities, especially
in the larger cities, to employ workers the year
round is indicated by the fact that more year-round
than seasonal workers were reported in 1940,
whereas the opposite was true ten years previous.
A total of 53,013 workers paid from local funds
was reported by park authorities in 1,256 cities
in 1940, or 29 per cent more workers than in
1935. On the average, one worker was employed
for each ten acres of park in cities between 50,000
and 500,000.

A drastic reduction in emergency'personnel is
noted in 1940 when 378 cities reported a total of
only 24,560 such workers, or less than half the
number of regular employees. This is in striking

 

4S6 MUNICIPAL AND COUNTY PARKS

contrast with the situation in 1935 when emergency
workers were two and a half times as numerous
as the park employees paid from regular funds.

Maintenance and operation personnel comprised
62 per cent of all park workers who were classified
as to type. Most park executives and ofiice ad-
ministration workers are employed the year round
but nearly half of the maintenance and operation
personnel are employed on a seasonal basis.

Perl: Expenditures. The improvement in eco-
nomic conditions in 1940 is refiected in the rising
total of park expenditures from regular funds,
namely, $83,381,840. Of this amount only about
two and one-half million dollars was spent for land
and eleven and one-half million for buildings and
improvements. Of the nearly 65 million dollars
spent for operation and maintenance, a large per-
centage was for salaries and wages of park work-
ers. Local park expenditures from local sources
were supplemented in 1940 by approximately 19
million dollars from emergency funds. A total of
138 million dollars was reported spent by 771
cities from all sources for land, buildings, and im-
provements during the five-year period 1936-1940
inclusive. -

The average amount spent per capita in 1940 for
current operation and maintenance in the 1,241
cities reporting was 70 cents, as compared with an
average per capita expenditure of 59 cents in 193 5.
The average per capita expenditure in every popu-
lation group was larger in 1940 than in 1935 and,
with one or two exceptions, the amount increased
with the size of the cities comprising the popula-
tion grouP. Since many cities expend very little
money for parks, an analysis was made of the figures
submitted by the 25 per cent “best” cities in each
of the nine population groups. This selected group
of 312 cities spent on an average $1.69 per capita,
or 143 per cent more than the 70 cents average
spent by the 1,241 cities.

A comparison of 1940 expenditures with the
amounts reported in earlier studies shows a marked
increase in expenditures from regular funds since
1935, but it also reveals that 1940 expenditures
fall somewhat short of the total reported in 1930.
On the other hand, current operating and main-
tenance expenses were greater in 1940 than in any
previous year for which information is available.
Expenditures for land, buildings and improve-
ments, however, fall far short of the amount re-
ported in 1930.

Seven outqof every eight dollars spent for park

purposes in 1940, not including emergency funds,
were tax dollars secured through a local appro-
priation, special tax levy, or bond issue. The per.
centage of park monies received from these sourc

was higher than in 1930 and 1935. City approprc'l
ations comprised 74 per cent of all regular parll
funds and 85 per cent of all public funds mad

available for park purposes in 1940. Fees an:
charges are the next most important source <1
park revenue, totaling nearly five million dolla
in 1940, or 6 per cent of all park funds. The co
bined income from fees and charges and from c
cesssions represents approximately the same
centage of total receipts in 1930, 1935, and 19

   
   
    
 
   
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
   

Income and Cost of Operating Recreation Fe
ties. Parks are provided primarily for free enjo
ment and use by all the people, but charges ar
frequently made for the use of certain faciliti
Of the seven types of facilities for which infor
tion on income and operating costs was request
three showed on the average a slight profit in 194
They were nine-hole and eighteen-hole golf cour
and organized camp centers. Bathing beac
boat houses, stadiums, and swimming pools c
more to operate than was received in use fees.
considerable number of beaches and pools .
Operated free of charge.

The average swimming pool, with 555 report
cost $2,944 to operate in 1940 and the average °
come at 429 pools was $2,420. The average 0pe
tion and maintenance costs at 127 nine-hole ,
courses were $7,658; at 168 eighteen-hole cour
$13,989, The nine-hole courses yielded an :1
age profit of $455 and the eighteen-hole cour
an average of $828. The stadium cost a city
an average $2,279 per year in excess of inc
according to the 1940 data. Both receipts and
penses in the case of most facilities were gr
in 1940 than in 1935.

Bond issues for parks totaling nearly 20 mil
dollars were voted by 153 cities in the five-
period 1936-1940 inclusive. This compares
total bond issues of more than 153 million (1
voted in a comparable period beginning 1
These figures reveal in a striking manner
change that has taken place in the method of fit
ing park improvements in the last fifteen yeaq.

Gifts of land for parks with a total est' -
value of nearly six and one-quarter million do
were received by 162 cities between 1936 and I
Gifts other than land valued at a total of three

(Continued on page 478)

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

INCE IN THIS COUNTRY we are seriously think-
S ing in terms of what may happen during air
raids, it may be interesting to note a few cases

that Dr. Gillespie refers to under this heading in
his book, Psychological Effects of War on Citizen
and Soldier. He speaks of ten instances that were
1 random samples. Only one is recorded as being
disturbed by air raids. A further ten cases of one
of England’s most bombed ports show that bomb-
ing and the fear of it were infrequent causes of
psychological conditions in children. The third
sample of ten cases was from another heavily
bombed city. Two cases were recorded in which
fear of air raids had added itself to or aggravated
a previously existing condition. Children are re-
markably unaffected by fear of air raids, and this
is undoubtedly connected with the behavior of
adults around them. It is recorded, for example,
that in a children’s ward of a general hospital,
nurses set an example of cool courage by carrying
little patients to shelter and sitting up with them
all night. None of the children whimpered. Some
fell asleep in the middle of the bombardment.
Some of them engaged in games representing an
air raid and worked off what—
ever anxiety they had in this
way. This description the au-
thor quotes from the Daily
Telegraph of March 3, 1941.
In only one case out of
sixty children brought to a
child guidance clinic are raids
mentioned as a cause of the
difficulty. Dr. Gillespie quotes

The extracts presented here have been
taken from a review of "Psychological

Effects of War on Citizen and Soldier"
by Dr. R. D. Gillespie of London. pub-
lished by W. W. Norton and Company.

New York City. The review from which
we quote was prepared by Philip L.
Seman. General Director. Jewish Peo-
ple's Institute. Chicago. and Chairman of
the Chicago Recreation Commission.

Psychological Effects
of War

Experience in England has shown that
children are remarkably unaffected by
fear of air raids. and any fear they may
have is undoubtedly connected with
the behavior of adults around them.

from a study by M. D. Vernon which appeared in
British Journal of Educational Psychology, pub—
lished in 1940, on the subject, “Effects of Evacua-
tion on Adolescent Girls,” which illustrates the
effect of disorganization on evacuated school popu-
lations. The deprivation of amusements and lei-

sure occupations were much more strongly felt and
aroused greater discomfort than any of the school

difficulties.

Again, in discussing delinquency in this chapter
on psychoneuroses among civilians in war, the au—
thor indicates that the most serious result of the
disorganization of children’s lives appears in the
increase in juvenile delinquency. Fifty-live per
cent of the offenses in recent months in one police
area were committed by boys. More than three-
quarters consisted in theft and a not inconsider-
able proportion consisted in wanton destruction.
The factors at work are principally disturbances in
family lifeproduced especially by the absence of
the father in the forces, the closing of schools for
long periods or for part of each day, and the clos-
ing of clubs and playing fields, as well as social
centers. In bombed areas also the time spent in
billets in winter is harmful
unless it is combated by well
organized social arrange-
ments. Shelters can form
places for planning adventures
to replace those no longer
available so that serious of-
fenses, such as housebreak-
ing, may be planned to be
executed later in the. blackout.

457

453 PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF WAR

These enterprises are the outcome, of course, of
the spirit of adventure in many instances. The
author says it is quite probable that a diffuse ex-
citement arising out of the novel conditions plays
a part. For example, sudden access to high wages
seems to favor rather than to diminish juvenile
crime. A sixteen year old boy who was earning
three pounds a week as a laborer was charged in
a juvenile court with larceny.

In the Home Ofiice Report, published in Lon-
don in June, 1941, Circular 807624, we find simi-
lar instances to those Dr. Gillespie reports. Boys
going out to work are faced with new temptations,
and at this age the provision of leisure-time ac-
tivities becomes very important. At the beginning
of the war many clubs and similar facilities were
removed, owing to premises being converted to
other use and leaders of these activities being
absorbed into the Army or other work. Moreover,
as the war proceeded and new factories came into
operation, the demand for boy labor became in-
sistent, and young boys found themselves in pos-
session of weekly wages far exceeding the average
of peacetime, which usually means money to be
spent rather than saved or contributed to the up-
keep of the home. Poverty is sometimes given as
a reason for delinquency, but under these new
conditions unexpected pocket money has brought
new temptations. The appearance before the
courts of young boys who are earning three to tive
pounds a week has been made the subject of stern
comment by magistrates.

Apart from opportunities giVen for easy looting,
especially in the blackout, there can be little doubt
that boys are stirred by stories of deeds at sea, on
the fields and in the air, and the spirit of adventure
thus aroused leads the more adventurous to find
an outlet in ways readily open to them. This type
frequently works in gangs.

Furthur, in his analysis of psychoneuroses
among civilians at war, the author tells us that it
has been discovered that to sustain morale, com-
-munity amusements and diversions are of great
value. This is true especially of bombed areas,
though equally true but less conspicuous in “safe”
areas. A fairly elaborate organization has de-
veloped in some of the larger shelters. There are
concerts, plays, debates and the like, in addition
to small libraries and other means of spare-time
amusement.

In his last chapter on human relationships in
the postwar world, Dr. Gillespie states that the

.ple. People are finding out all over again the

  
 
  
  
    
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
     
  
  
   
  
  
  
  

war has given a great stimulus in England
thinking about the conditions of life in our tii
Education, general character training, planning .
town and country, the future of social services, '
cluding the medical services, access to art, whet
of the theater or music—all these things are 3- '
discussed there more widely than ever before
our generation. It is a good sign that the con
is not so preoccupied with the war that it can
find energy to think in terms of the postwar w
In fact, if one thing is more obvious than a .-
it is the fact that the war has not only stim
thought but prodded the consciences of many
ple in many directions. “This time it almost 10
as if the ideals that were stimulated by the
war, only to be lost again in the peace, will
time be enshrined in practical measures in n
ways,” says Dr. Gillespie. For example, the C
cil for the Encouragement of Music and the A
which is a wartime innovation under the au ‘
of the Pilgrim Trust—what is more remar
for England in this sphere—subsidized pound
pound by the Treasury, has brought music
painting into places where performances of a
class order have seldom, if ever, been seen p
ously, Not only concert halls, but churches
chapels and factories have been brought into
organization for the production of concerts,
plays by Shakespeare and Goldsmith, as x
more modern pieces, have been performed in '
unlikely places as miners’ halls. This is an ex
of the paradoxical kind of acceleration that
can produce in the cultural development of a

and importance of human relationships.

Much of interest on this subject will be f
in the Winter 1941-42 issue of Child S tudy,
taining the highlights of the Annual Institut .,
by the Child Study Association in New York '
on November I4, 1941. One Section of the
tute was devoted to a discussion of the
“Children in a Threatened World,” and it
pointed out that the lessons we can learn
England must be supplemented by recognit'
our own peculiar problems. Speakers who -
dresses are published in this issue include
Martha Eliot, Children’s Bureau, who Sp
the subject, “W hat We Can Learn frbm Eng
Dr. James Plant, who discussed “Emo '
Strains in Times of Crisis,” and Susan 

whose subject was “Children of Great Britain
War Time.”

Youth—In the War Crisis and After

HERE HAS BEEN a ten-

dency in certain quarters,

while recognizing the
health problem as urgent, to
I belittle the related field of
» recreation and creative use of
leisure as “non:essentials” in
the midst of an all-out war
I effort. Those of us who deal
professionally with education '
and recreation know that this
is a false hypothesis. Our re-
sponsible military leaders
know it, too. The history of
the war in other countries is
full of object lessons on this point. One of the
most diflicult problems facing the British military
leaders has been the problem of recreation and
morale. How to keep fit and alert and vigilant
the large military forces on guard in England;
how to provide relaxation for the army of indus-
trial workers under the strain of blockade and
bombardment. We know now that' war creates
new problems in the recreation field as well as
leaving many old ones unsolved.

In this country, community leisure-time and
recreation agencies are today being greatly over-
taxed, especially in areas adjacent to military
camps and in crowded industrial centers. At the
same time, many of these agencies are facing re-
duced budgets—which were never adequate—and
are losing personnel to the military services.

Our commission takes the position that recrea-
tion, because of its relation to character building,
to morale, and to all-—
round sanity, is not a lux-
ury in wartime. We be-
lieve that “community rec-
reation programs are an
essential social service, and
one needed even more at
present than in times of
less stress and strain. The
existing community pro-
grams,” the commission
states, “should be vigor-
ously maintained and
where possible expanded.”

By FLOYD W. REEVES

In the April I942 issue of the Survey
Graphic, Mr. Reeves. Director of the
American Youth Commission. summa-
rizes the long range program contained
in the Commission's final report. brought
out in wartime. but looking beyond to-
day to the generations to follow. We
present here Mr. Reeve's summary of
findings of the Commission on recrea-
tion. Copies of Youth and the Future
are available from the American Coun-

cil on Education. 744 Jackson Place.
Washington. D. C.. at $2.50 each.

"Recreation in the deepest sense. a recreative
'use of one's own time and a pouring into time
free from toil a sense of personal fulfillment.
a sense of proportion. and a sense of adven-
ture (which has been denuded from much of the
frenzied or monotonous toil of our day). recre-
ation of this type. creative in its nature. is an
absolute imperative for discovering the mean-
ing of life. Unless that discovery is the fruit
of our effort we shall fail—fail even though
we succeed in organizing the physical basis
for victory and peace. We shall not succeed
unless we make. the final discovery of spiritual
values that alone give meaning to life."—

From the Survey Graphic, April I942.

In a series of special studies
particular attention is also
called to the recreational
needs of rural youth and of
Negro youth—groups whose
recreational and leisure-time
needs are least adequately met.

The recreational problem
of youth in time of war is of
major importance, but it is
attended by many difliculties
and is met in certain quarters
by hostility or indifference.
What can be done? I believe
we need to do three things.

First, we need to secure, understand and dis-
seminate the facts and to relate them to the -
emergency. ‘

Second, we need to use far more effectively the
resources we have. For example, in our schools
and colleges, at this time, intramural athletic con-
tests are not enough; we should expand, to the full,
physical training programs and intramural ath-
letics because of their value to all who participate,
in teaching courage, initiative, and team play, and
in developing physical stamina.

Third, we should use ingenuity in discovering
new recreational resources in our own communi-
ties and in making them available to all. This can
be done. Over and over again the commission’s
investigators have found average communities with
no special advantages, but with an alert and
imaginative leadership which found ways to pro-
vide creative leisure-time' activities, not for a
privileged few, but for the
whole of the youth popu-
lation.

“What the youth of
America think and do is of
supfeme importance to all
of us. We want them to
uphold and strengthen our
democracy, but we will
have to show them and to
give them a democracy '
that works.”—Floyd W.

Reeves.

459

 

p

HERE LIVE those gifted individuals for whom
Tthe thoughts of hitting a nail on its head do

not bring visions of resultant broken finger
nails and sore thumbs. Not for them, my tale.

But if instead you are one who shies away from
thoughts of carpentry but likes to exercise his in-
genuity, preferring to gloat over the use of flat-
irons for doorstops, shells for flower pots, and the
hundred and one things that are put to uses their
makers never intended them for—then harken
unto me.

For we are about to go gadgeteering with the
hope of attracting wild birds to our dooryard.
Suppose we can't hit the nail on the head every
time? Why bother when the good old five-and-ten
has so many fascinating objects that take only a
little imagination to see how very practicable for
our purposes they can be?

Surely everybody likes birds, deep down in their
hearts, whether it’s a sentimental dicky-bird sort
of emotion, a casual acquaintance, or an honest-
to-goodness scientific interest. But the silly things
won’t reciprocate! This, however, should stimu-
late us to greater efforts to tame these bunches of
feathered elusiveness.

So off we go gadgeteering.

But on the way downtown, let’s think about the
menu we are going to serve
our feathered guests, a menu
which will be so attractive
that there will be no “regrets”
sent to our dooryard party.

A mixture of seeds and
cracked corn, such as the pet
shops and poultry supply

460

We are indebted to Hobbies, magazine
of the Buffalo Museum of Science. for
permission to reprint this delightful
article by Miss Thorpe. a science guide
in the Museum who teaches bird classes
for ‘iuniors. Miss Mary
also a science guide. made the sketches.

A Bird Cafeteria I

By HEATHER G. THORPE

Buy gadgets at the Five-and-Dimo
and set up a restaurant for birds!

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
   

houses sell, comes first and foremost. Juncos,
sparrows, and other “big beaks" will enjoy this.
Sunflower seeds are goldfinches’ delight, and many
such birds winter over here if they find a food
supply like this. Bread crumbs are acceptable to
most feathered folk, while nuthatches, chickadees,
woodpeckers—all birds that winter here—take
their vitamins in suet form.

Birds, as you know, are the dentist’s poorest
clients; they have no teeth. Therefore they usually
swallow their food whole and let the grit they
consume take care of the digestive disorders. So
don’t forget the gravel after-dinner mints!

The next time you visit the butcher for Fido'
bone, don’t forget to ask him for another one for
the birds. He’ll think you’re crazy, but the star-
lings and other insect-eaters will peck it clean
a whistle.

With the menu out of the way, let’s concentra
on the serving dishes. Five-and-ten, here we come
First to the basement store where, believe me, on
very puzzled floorwalker is still wondering wh
it’s all about.

Here’s a counter where they sell beetleware
The name is appropriate, at any rate. A set
measuring cups, each one smaller than the 1
has a hole in each handle so that one screw ho
will fasten it in place to verandah or fence railin
tree trunk or wall. These will become perfect co
tainers for melted suet to which some of the 3
mixture has been added. Try them on your 11
hatches!

Next is a fruit corer which looks for all t
world like a miniature wh
The spaces between t
“spokes” will hold chunks
suet or bread when it is f
tened to a tree trunk.

Let us now go over to t
knick—knack counter. W
endless possibilities it hat!

R. Templeton.

A BIRD CAFETERIA 461

That Hower pot rack with two shelves will be just
the thing. Each shelf has a little rim around.it so
that our precious offerings won’t fall ofic and the
whole thing can be tacked in place. Moreover, the
upper shelf will keep the snow off the lower one.
The whole thing is enameled—a great advantage
when you stop to think what has happened to
Inoist little eyes that freeze tight to unpainted
metal surfaces.

Then there are dishes and more dishes. Shaped
pike pumpkins, like sweet potatoes, like oranges,
and all with cavities large enough to satisfy the
greediest bird, each dish is heavy enough so that
it won’t be blown over by the wintry blasts. Set
)ne of these in the corner of your windowsill.

Here’s a bag filled with round glass objects,
narine gems, they are called, and the maker ex-
pects you to use them in your fish bowl. VVe’ll use
the bag itself. Its fiber meshes are wide and open,
and, when the bag is tied to a branch of a tree, it
will make a fine suet- or bread-dispenser.

Let’s give that puzzled floorwalker following us
:he “run around” and go away over to the kitchen-
ware department, VVhat’s this gadget? A cup-
1anger which fastens to the underside of a shelf
1nd is guaranteed to hold six 'cups? Just the thing.
Dnly we’ll tie some suet and doughnuts to the
looks and invite the birds to a pantry shower. A
nufi‘in tin near by will hold six different mixtures
md can be nailed in place because the manu-
facturer has kindly provided a
71016 at each. end. (Those two
nails we will hit on the head!)
Presto! We have a feeding tray,
11though we must remember to
paint it before using.

That spindle over there, by
:he way, will hold doughnuts
iust as well as it spears the

An estimate of the approximate
cost of setting up a bird cate-
teria completely equipped with
Five-and-Dime furnishings

GUEST LIST

GUESTS OF HONOR
Mr. and Mrs. Eastern Cardinal
Mr. and Mrs. Tufted Titmouse

OTHERS
Mr. and Mrs. Northern White—breasted Nuthatch
Mr. and Mrs. Black-capped Chickadee
Mr. and Mrs. Northern Downy Woodpecker
Mr. and Mrs. Slate-colored Junco
Mr. and Mrs. Tree Sparrow
Mr. Ring—necked Pheasant and harem

GATE-CRASHERS
Mr. and Mrs. English Sparrow
Mr. and Mrs. Starling

jars. It has a wire coil contraption around it
which is simply made to our order because nut
meats, suet, and all manner of bird tidbits can be
thrust securely in the coil and so hung up.

Soap dishes are old standbys at feeding stations
everywhere. But here’s one that clamps on the
edge of the bath and therefore can be fastened over
a rear porch or fence railing. No nails, no noth—
ing! And by this time we know what to do with

that wire egg beater and the large spoon with the
perforations in it.

It would be convenient to have some sort of
rack from which to hang a few of these contrap-
tions. Over across the aisle from us is just the
ticket: a skirt hanger in whose wooden jaws can
be placed many pendant feeders.
That rubber-covered, snap-on
towel rack is a good thing, too,
for the same purpose.

Over yonder, nestled between
dog collars and dog biscuits, is
a dog’s brush, The bristles of
heavy wire will be perfect for
spearing suet or bread. The

l

rnonthly gas receipt, while the
sight of a chickadee upside down
)n a doughnut will help you for-
get the size of the bill.

Did you ever see so many
strainers and sifters? All sizes,
111 useful for our misuse. This
:oarse-meshed one, for instance,
:an be filled and nailed up out-
doors against a post, wall, or
:ree trunk.

Another gadget is most pe-
:uliar—looking. The label says it
.s for straining juice from mason

Iul: of mus-ks «9.6163210

I'Pruii: core!" _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ __.|O
IPlerr pot. rm: _....__._-3Q-.69
Zéishes 8.10-.. -__._.@_-.20
I has or ambiaéluu .:o

l Spihéle. _ _ _ g _ _ _ _._. ...IO
1 strainer—_W -_._.. ._ JO
l Juice. ehniner___-¢=-$__.25
I :oap335k____ __,__.io
l  bmher'___._. __-'o
| large per-Po smog- .IO
2 emu-khan ers_ _ _.__ __ .05
ll:on mEkuWM _.__.IO
i brush _.__- w. _-__—_.__.IO
l {Hocer- bother- _. &3_ _ Io—.39
\baskeh _-__ ______ __.|o

Courtesy Bu falo Museum of Science

brush itself is wood so that fas-
tening it in place is easily taken
care of.

Let’s look at these artificial

'flowers and the gadgets to hold

them in place. One flower
holder is made by sticking head-
less nails into type metal, and its
ilses by now should be obvious.
Here’s a small basket filled with
Howers. Well, the birds aren’t
that stupid, but we can use the
basket as a seed or bread crumb

(Continued on page 4592)

What They Say About Recreation.

" OUTH, AS ALWAYS, have the greatest stake in
the future. They have the highest obligation
in the present. They are determined, with

our aid, to fulfill that obligation, relying on the best

of the past and preserving our ancient heritage of

American freedom.”—From Community Recrea-

tion,‘April 1942. Chicago Recreation Commission.

“America must be strong—strong to meet any
threats against her way of life from armed aggres-
sors; strong to solve her domestic problems by
peaceful democratic means.”-—Jolm W. Studebaker.

“Of course I really do not like to see recreation
too much organized. My whole being revolts
against that. I think it is just a contradiction in
terms, but there are many people who could min-
ister to us from the standpoint of the arts and
they should have an opportunity to train them-
selves.”—chry Wallace.

“And this is my faith, that if we put on the ap-
pearance of life and cheer and interest in things,
our own hidden creative spirit may be enticed to
come forth again.”-—Hughes M earnes.

“In times like these, of national emergency,
music assumes a greater importance than ever be-
fore. It is one of the most.potent morale-builders

open to all people regardless of age, race or creed.”
—George J. H eckman, Editor, O.M.T.A. News.

“A great many of us are not doing the thing for
which we believe ourselves best fitted, and are not
even doing the thing we want most to do. . .
Many of us are probably more skillful at our
hobby, or our second trade which we carry on at
home because we enjoy it, than we are at our full-
time business.”—From The New Y or]: Times.

“The right balance between work and leisure;
the deve10pment of those wants which increase the
value of work and of those tastes which increase
the value of leisure, are at the bottom of the prob-
lem of human education.” -—-Nicholas Murray
Butler.

“Civilization is a matter of many hobbies—in-
deed the civilization may be estimated by the num-
ber and nature of the hobbies which attend upon
it. The fact is that every right-minded man and

462 - .

  
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
 
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
    
 
 
  

woman ought as certainly to have one or two h
bies as to go abroad clothed.”-——Charles Dick: .

“Democracy—that is liberal democracy, a s _
tem of society which exists to free the individual
is peculiarly a product of action. It has never .
talked into existence, nor rescued by words; it i

only be promulgated by continual effort.”-——R
mond Gram Swing.

“If education fails to train for leisure, for c
ture and for creative expression, then it has fai .
miserably.”—M. H. and E. S. Neumeyer in
sure and Recreation.

“The realization grows that life can be enric
for all by developing creative participation
myriad leisure time arts, and by promoting un .
standing and appreciation of the work of art'
and craftsmen. Music, painting, sculpture, l
dance in its many beautiful forms, and the -
matic art all contribute thus to the satisfactions
the many.”—From American Youth.

“If democracy is to work, it must work thro
strong- convictions and under severe physical,
tal and. spiritual disciplines.”—Jay B. Nash, Ph
in Building Morale.

 

_
o

“Recreation is dynamic. It is an end in it
Its justification does not lie in its educational
health-building values, its contribution to '
or its moral values, though participation in re
ational pursuits may pay rich dividends in ea
these.”——Ott Romney.

“At this time the value of music cannot be 0
estimated. It is a unifying force and a vitali
agent. It speaks directly to our hearts, bri
us consolation in adversity, relief from an
and faith in our ultimate triumph.”—Dr. J t

E. Angell in The Etude Music Magazine.

“In long term planning in the arts we
think not so much of a single article to be
but of the mastery of tools, of observatio
beauty, of the correlation of the craft program
music, drama, nature, all the allied subjects
stir within us the desire to create, the desire

record the ‘imponderables of beauty and truth.’ ’
Chester G. Marsh in The Girl Scout Leader.

Interpreting Parks to the Public

LEVELAND, OHIO, has an
outstandingmetropoli-
tan park system. How-

ver, until a few years ago
few Clevelanders really
' new much about this chain.
f reservations, and many
id not even know how to
each them. Some residents
used the parks for picnics
nd places in which to play
all and ride horseback, but

  
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
      
  
  
  
  
  
 
  

seasonal dramas.
and the daily newspaper, The

perated in a campaign re—
sulting in a. realiza-
tion on the part of
many thousands of
itizens that these
etropolitan parks
. re great wildlife
preserves abound-
' g in birds, plants,
and animals native

to the Cleveland
. egion. In this cam-
. aign The Press
orked closely with
the nature educa-
ion program of the
useum.

I n I 9 3 7 T h e
leveland Press,
ng interested in
eporting and writ-
g nature news,
ecided it wanted
a supplement what
was already doing
its news col-
ns to promote an
preciation of na-
‘ re in the park
eservations. Omar

hat was about all. Rarely appreciated was the
fact that in these parks, on the city’s rim, nature
he year round put on a succession of beautiful

It was the Cleveland Natural History Museum

Cleveland Press, which co-

|n Cleveland the.need arose to interpret
the parlcs to the public in order to bring
about a maximum of enjoyment for the peo-
ple and a deeper appreciation of the beauty
of the metropolitan parks. Since this situ-
ation is one which other large cities have
facedI or are still facing in developing
their park systems. the story of the way
in which a natural history museum and a
daily newspaper cooperated in a program
of education will be of special interest
to municipal park and recreation leaders.

Ranney, editor of The Press,
suggested a booklet dealing
with nature in the Cleve-
land region —a publication
that would be authentic to
the last detail, written in
popular vein, illustrated in
a striking manner, and yet
issued at a low enough price
so that it could be made
available to children and
adults of very limited means.
Dr, Arthur B. Williams, Curator of Education at
the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, agreed
to write the booklet,,seeing in it an opportunity to

further the work he was doing in the parks.

Each issue of Cleveland’s Nature Trails
carried this attractive .design in colors

 

At first it started with just a name—Cleveland’s
Nature Trails — and de-
veloped from that theme. The
booklet, designed in loose

leaf form with a
stiff back cover, was
prepared as a pub-
lication of The
Cleveland Press
Public Service Bu-
reau, which had
already published as
a service to its read-
ers pamphlets on
such subjects as
gardening, house-
hold helps, and
child training.While
Dr. Williams wrote
the text, a local
artist, Lurabel
Long, made colored
illustrations under
his direction to
stimulate popular
interest in the book.
Willard Combes,
staff artist of The
Press, designed an
attractive cover with
cardinals in natural

color on a yellow
background. The

463

404 INTERPRETING PARKS TO THE PUBLIC

About 300 Clevelanders
attended the Bird Festi-
val which was sponsored
b theCleveland Museum
0 Natural History as
the grand finale lo-l’he
bird walk season. Con-
tests were held in the

identification of birds.

first issue of Cleveland’s Nature Trails appeared
in April, 1937. It consisted of a colored map
of the MetrOpolitan Park System and a series
of twelve articles illustrated in color, all of them
planned to aid Clevelanders in enjoying nature
in the parks during the Spring and summer sea—
sons.” Titles of the articles were: “The Metro-
politan Parks”; “How to Enjoy a \Valk in the
Woods"; “Early \Voodland Flowers”; “A Wild—
flower Timetable”; “Early Migrating Birds”;
“How to Know the Birds”; “Bird Nests”; “The
Coming of the Leaves”; “Awakening of the Hi-
bernators”; “How a Tree Grows” (together with
a diagram); “How to Identify Trees by Their
Leaves”; and “How to Make a Tree Book.”

The complete booklet sold for six cents when
called for at the Press oflice or at drug store dis—
tributing points throughout the city; postpaid it
cost ten cents. These prices were below cost.

A large circulation was immediately reached in
Greater Cleveland. In fact, so popular did it prove
that it was decided to add more pages to the loose
leaf publication in the fall of 1938, and the follow-
ing articles prepared by Dr. VVilliamsand edited
by Mr. Ranney were published: “And N ow
Comes Autumn” ; “Why the Leaves Fall”; “Fall
Migrating Birds”; “Plants Without Green
Leaves”; “Squirrels in Autumn Woods”; “Nature
Prepares for \Vinter”; “Records in the Snow”;
“The Forest in Winter”; “Winter Bird Com-

panies”; and—back to spring again—“A Spring

 

Bird Timetable.” W’ith these added pages tl
booklet sold for eight cents at The Press and dis
tributing centers, and thirteen cents postpaid.

The demand for the booklet was heavy. Mos
of the circulation of 25,000 was in the Clevelan
region, but copies were requested by individual
in thirty-two states who learned of it at schoo
conventions, and nature and science meetings.

Dr. \Villiams has made continual use of th
booklet ,in connection with his program of natur
education in the parks, a program centering largel,
in three trailside museums, each located in a (lif
ferent type forest community with uniformed trail
side naturalists on duty in the summer months
Attendance at these museums has increased ever
year. Since the appearance of the booklet 'Mr
Ranney has written a weekly column in The Press
entitled “Nature Trails.”

Feeling that it has had a part in adding to I]
pleasure of many thousands of people in th
Metropolitan Parks, The Cleveland Press believ
that its efforts in publishing the booklet wer
worth while and heartin recommends this form
of newspaper enterprise to other large cities.

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
  

“The trees have been stripped of their last leav
by the autumn winds. Most of the birds have left
the north on their journey southward. The nuts
have been gathered and stored away for the winter.
The harvests are piled high in the granaries. The
sky is gray-blue from the smoke of many outdoor
fires. It is November.”—-Nina B. Lamkin.

 

ISALIA IS A California town of 12,000 people
Vin the San Joaquin Valley. The setting is
rural; there are great fruit and walnut
orchards and truck gardens. The nature atmos—
phere provides an incentive for art culture as well.
When Visalia’s Creative Arts Fellowship, made
up of writers, musicians, artists, and craftsmen,
learned that gardens and bouquets should demon-
strate the primary principles of art, they added the
Floral Unit which meets one afternoon each month
through club, season, in gardens, if weather per—
mits, otherwise indoors. The afternoon schedule
eliminates man membership so appreciated in the
other units. But husbands do approve the_crea—
tions of their garden artists.

The Floral Unit decorates for the three annual
joint meetings of the Fellow—
ship—June pot luck family
dinner under great oaks in
our Tulare County Park, the
formal dinner in September,
and the March exhibit and
guest night in our Civic Au—
ditorium. For that event the

play tables of quuisite floral
arrangements.

In the October I940 issue of Recreation,
we published an article by Mrs. Eichmann
under the title "Still-Hunting,” which
told how the search for people's talents
and interests had resulted in the forma-
tion of Visalia's Creative Arts Fellow-
is still functioning

. . happily and successfully. and has recent-
garden artlsts add long (113' ly added a new unit known as the Floral

Unit. Mrs. Eichmann tells in this article
of the activities of the new group.

ship. This group

Youth Gardens—
A Victory Project

By

GRACE SHULL EICHMANN
VisaliaI California

Doing their digging, planting, and tending prac-
tically alone, in addition to being housewives and
mothers with no maids, the members considered
their activities quite adequate. So when the presi—
dent suggested at the beginning of their second
season in ’37, “Let’s have a garden contest for
Visalia’s elementary school children,” there were
hardly concealed gasps of dismay. But when she
presented the primary aim—to interest the young—.
sters in creating a beauty plot in their own yard—
visionairies saw the children exercising their right
to constructive projects, their enthusiasm won
unanimous aflirmative vote.

Sixteen children contested. A little Spanish girl
won first award for her flower garden. A boy of
twelve grew flowers and vegetables and received
his award. At a party in Cleo Cook’s picturesque
garden, each child pridefully carried home a gift—
fiower picture, small vase, a potted plant, or a
glass of jelly that gave special delight, for gar—
deners love “eats.”

The second year thirty—four children were reg—
istered, and by the third year the Floral Unit
found it a real task to judge one hundred fifty
gardens and give the party with refreshments at
a city park.

Then—this season—Pearl Harbor! Exclama-
tions followed the suggestion that a contest be
held, It was pointed out that our community is
located in a section of the
state which might conceivably
be involved in war activity.
“Imagine the children having
their gardens blown to
pieces!”

But the contest chairman
presented her plan with its
added objective of keeping
the spirit of home beautifica—
tion alive and encouraging

465

466 YOUTH GARDENS—.4 VICTORY PROJECT

morale by home food production. Then, too, Vic—
tory stamps could be given as awards. Again en-
thusiasm won an all-member approval. (It should
be noted at this point that very few Visalians, un-
less recently from the east, are vegetable-garden
conscious. Chinese truck wagons supply vege-
tables even to farm and orchard families miles out
in the county.)

Step-by-Step
As the first step in the project, “Requirements”
were read to fifth and sixth grade pupils and

posted in their assembly rooms. They were as
follows:

The garden plot should be at least four by nine
feet.

The gardener may have help with first spading.
Planting, continuous weeding, cultivation, and
watering must be solely his own work.

Work should begin in February with the gar-
dener’s own plants and seeds, if possible. On
March fourth these would be supplemented with
donations taken by the Floral Unit to a yard near
each elementary school and given out by a mem-
ber. (The suggestion was made to sow radish
seeds among other seeds for the fun of seeing the
plants pop out of the ground in a hurry and for
the fun of eating. all the radishes before other
growth would be crowded.)

The second step involved the enlistment of over
a hundred soldiers eager to Fight garden enemies
and the third, after the gardeners had given evi-
dence of progress, the making of a classification as
to location.

Following this, the twenty members of the
Floral Unit went singly or in pairs to their as-
signed section to inspect gardens and advise the
gardeners. They did this from one to four times,
depending upon the enthusiasm of the inspectors.

The Finale

Now—the finale! A community garden night
with the Floral Unit of the Creative Arts
Fellowship as sponsor, and as cooperators, the
four other units (drama had been added), and
Visalia’s indispensible recreation director, R. C.
Whitmore. Time and place—Friday evening, May
twenty-second, in the Junior High auditorium.

A victory garden exhibit by nine to twelve-
year-old contestants front a woodsy stage. In
variety, color, ingenuity, and artistry—in quantity,
too—it would have been a creditable showing for
adults. The theme of fellowship was evidenced

  
    
    
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
    
  
   
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
    
   
   
 
 
  
   
   

throughout the program by the participation of ..
other units, by Mr. Whitmore’s friendly entl
asm as master of ceremonies, and by planned
formality.

Mr. VVhitmore introduced the contest inn
and the Fellowship’s president. Victory be
the dominant chord—first in the patriotic s
prelude by the choral group of the Music Unit,
the flag salute, and next in a four part 9k !
“Out Door Folk,” arranged by the Drama U
This was presented by a hiker who dramat' .
“Not a Penny in My Pocket.” A Girl Scout tr '
led by a Floral Unit member in bird study, ill
trated bird ways by reading, hiking songs, *'
whistled bird notes. Small flower folk ski
onto the stage to interpret a reading, “Flower P
sonalities.” There was a V tableau and ‘.
America gave a song and dance in front of
trees, bird students, and flowers.

Adults and children evidenced keen delight
color pictures—a few landscapes and skysca
but mostly gardens shown by A. R. Arnold, p
dent of the Art Unit. The first eight views x
his awards for the most colorful gardens
their creators standing beside them—truly art'
tic, they were judged. Visalia’s city garden
headed the judging committee.

Thrills multiplied as other awards were .-
sented. Three plant nurseries provided awar
for super-excellence—a boy’s large veget -
project, a boy’s large floral garden, and a gi
garden of flowers judged the most artistic:
planned. Four children received one dollar each
Victory stamps for next best and two won fl
cents in stamps for third.

Next came awards by the Writers’ Unit, alw
eager to discover and encourage writing abil'
for the best stories of “My Garden.” Surprisi
the judges found it necessary to give seven e
awards—fifty cents in Victory stamps. Storie
a Chinese boy, a Mexican girl, and a Dutch
were read to the audience as samples of fine r
thinking.

“Victory” continued dominant. Small "
Gong concluded his story with, “If I don’t 5
prize, I hope my vegetables will help win the
for Uncle Sam.” The little Van Winkle
wrote, “I got awful tired working every day _-
school and I wanted to quit, but I am glad I
not because it helps our family and besides, i
patriotic.” A boy of English descent wrote, “I I
all my garden but best of all I like my V 0

(Continued cm page 476)

1TH THE completion of
forty-two Federal com—
munity centers and
their dedication for use as
recreation centers for soldiers, sailors, marines,
oast guardsmen, .and war industrial workers in
thirty—three communities, the Federal Works
gency has practically wound up its $2,500,000
ecreation construction program in six southeast-
ern states. Thus the states of Alabama, Florida,

   
  
   
   
  
  
  

essee are assured of adequate housing for their
recreation activities. Each of the structures was
‘built wholly or in part with Lanham Act funds.
Thirty-six were built by the Army; others were
nfederally built by the Federal Works Agency; and
a few were constructed as cooperative projects by
F WA and the municipalities.

Each recreation center was certified as a de-
fense or war need by the Federal Security Agency,
1 to which it was delivered after completion. This

agency in turn handed it ‘
over for operation to the
municipality in which it was
situated. After the war
emergency it is planned that
the buildings shall be con-
verted into community cen-
ters for the people of the

 

By H..L. HEWES
Federal Works Agency Regional Office
New York City

Georgia, Mississippi, South Carolina, and Ten—,

The construction program of the Federal
Works Agency has covered a wide scope.
ranging from the erection of such modern
buildings as that completed at Columbia.
South Carolina, to the remodeling of the
old volunteer armory at Macon. Georgia.
and of the building at Montgomery. Ala-
bama, now a popular USO Soldiers' Center.

t-lousing Recreation in the Southeast

communities where' they are
located.

Sherwood Gates, south-
eastern regional recreation
representative of the Federal Security Agency,
who played an important part in the planning and
supervising of the recreation building program,
points out that if necessary all of the centers can
be readily adapted for use in any emergency which
might arise in the southeastern section.

Construction of the forty-two buildings varied
from simple frame buildings designed for tem-
porary use during the emergency to more preten-
tious ones of masonry and steel. The center at
Columbia, South Carolina, is an outstanding ex-
ample of the latter kind, built along modemistic
lines by Army engineers.

Some of the more commodious centers were
converted from existing buildings, thus eliminat-
ing the expenditure of large sums for land acqui—
sition in downtown centers. The centers at Mont-

gomery and Macon exem-
plify this type of construc-
tion. Centers were built as
follows:

Alabama : Childersburg,

$75,000 ;Talladega, $60,000 ;
Jacksonville, $75,000; Syla-
cauga, $7 5 .000 ; Phenix City, '

467

408 HOUSING RECREATION IN THE SOUTHEAST

 

$75,000; Selma, $11,000;
Montgomery, $20,000; An-
niston, $175,000. Total eight
centers.

Florida: Tampa, $9,200
and $43,000, two buildings;
Panama City, $50,000; De
Soto City, $5,000; Key
“r'est. $35,000; Pensacola,
$90,565; Starke. $80,525;
Sebring, $19,-
500; Miami, ‘
$25,000;C0coa,
$10,000; Or—
lando, $17,588;
Valpariso,
$46,000: Jack-
sonville Beach,
$75,000; Jack-
sonville, $30,-
000 and $45.-
000, two build-
ings. Total, lif-
teen centers.

Georgia:
Hinesville,
5582,00 ‘) an d
$12,000, ’wo
buildings; Isla-
con, $50,000;
Valtlosta, $40,-
300, *leany,
$20,000; Moul-
‘rie, $30,430;

Song fes’rs are always popular at the USO
Soldiers' Center at Montgomery. Alabama

The remodeled building at Macon.
Georgia. serving the men from Camp
Wheeler. contains an auditoriumI
two lounge roomsI oFFIces, a rest
room for women. a men's rest and
locker room. a canteen. game room.
and a reading and writing room

 

Fmirral Work: Ang' Photo by Zerwick

l

Federal Il’ork: Agency Photo by Zerwic1

Atlanta, approximately‘
$ I 38,000.Total seven centers.

Mississippi: Hattiesburg,
$38,850 and $200,000, two'
buildings; Biloxi, $110,000.|
Total, three centers.

South Carolina: Colum-
bia, $25,653 and $217,867
two centers; Charleston,
$60,000; Myrtle Beach

$80,000; Beau-
fort, $75,000;
Spartanburg,
$3 4,000 an (1
$93,720, two
buildings.Total,
seven centers.
Tennessee:
Tullahoma,
$24,719, $8213”
000 and $82,-
000.Total,three
centers.

 

It would be
impossible to
estimate the
value of these
buildings in
terms of their
usefulness as
centers of socia-
bility for ser-
vice men.

It’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

ARTRAM, lVILLIAlM (1739-1823). The

son of self-taught John Bartram, at fourteen
years of age accompanied his father on exploring
trips in the Catskills. With a Quaker philosophy
that a good life does not consist of worldly wealth,
he was not robbed of his out-of—doors birthright.
John wrote anxiously to a London friend:

“My son \Villiam is just turned sixteen. It is
now time to purpose some way for him to get his
living by. I don’t want him to be what is com-
monly called a gentleman. I am afraid that botany
and drawing will not afford him one. I have de-
signed several years to put him to a doctor, to
learn physic and surgery, but that will take him
from his drawing which he takes a particular
delight in.”

\Villiam Bartram has been pronounced “the first
(American) ornithologist of any reputation.” John
Bartram might also be pronounced as one of the
earliest successful leaders in vocational guidance.

“Birds Across the S ky,” F. P. and F. L. Jacques.
Harper, New York. 252 pp. $2. 50. Adventures.

Botanical Garden of New York in 1941 pub-
lished more than 150 papers and notes, offered
courses to about 200 professional gardeners, had
7,000 individuals attend Saturday afternoon lec-
, tures, donated 27,000 plants to 20 New York City
public schools and 16 colleges, had an exhibit of
Bible plants, on a budget of less than $300,000.—
Based on Annual Report of the Garden for 1941.

C onservation. “Fading Trails.” U. S. Fish and
Wildlife Service. Editor, Daniel B. Beard. Mac-

millan, New York. 279 pp. $3.00. Near-extinct
' wild animals.

Field Trips. “School Museums: Field Trips and
Travel as Phases of Objective Education,” Charles
C. Adams. From New York State Museum Bul—
letin 330. 1942. pp. 75-116.

“Fireplaces and Chimneys.” Farmers Bulletin
1889. U. S. Department of Agriculture, Wash-
ington, D. C. 52 pp.

Hiking Clubs. “Directory of Walking, Camp-
ing, and Nature Clubs of America.” Address Wil-
liam Hoeferlin, 556 Fairview St., Brooklyn, N .Y.
1942. 15 cents.

I

Natural Science Grants of the General Educa-
tion Board, founded by John D. Rockefeller, have
been made to meet southern needs. Investigation
of the seafood industry of Chesapeake Bay; a
marine biological station on the Texas coast; a re-
search center and summer courses at Beaufort,
North Carolina; and support of this study at Van-
derbilt University are in the plans for the develop—
ment of this field of knowledge.

“Radio.” A Public Primer. Federal Communi—
cations Commission, Washington, D. C. Free.

Science. “Enjoying Science,” Victor C. Smith,
Gilbert H. Trafton and W. R. Teeters. J. B. Lip-
pincott Co., Philadelphia. 596 pp. $1.52. Also
“Exploring Science,” by the same authors. Lip-
pincott. 458 pp. $1.32. Propaganda for nature
recreation seems to be taking effect.

“Scouting in the Schools.” Boy Scouts of
America, 2 Park Avenue, New York City. 96 pp.
20 cents.

Sphangnum II/Ioss (peat moss) was used for
surgical dressings in World War I, and there is a
possibility that it may again be required. Its high
absorption, softness, strong acid reaction, and anti-
septic qualities make it useful. Of the forty species,
Sphagnum Magellanicum is the best. It grows in
bogs along with cranberries and pitcher plants.
Consult Circular 167, U. S. Department of Agri-
culture, Washington, D. C.

Submarines. “Submarines,” Herbert S. Zim.
Harcourt, Brace, New York. 306 pp. $3.00 “What
the Citizen Should Know About Submarine War-
fare,” David C. Woodbury. W. W. Norton and
Co., New York. $2.50.

War Background Studies: N o. 1, “Orgin of the
Far Eastern Civilization,” Carl Whiting Bishop.
53 pp.; N o. 2, “The- Evolution of Nations,” John
R. Swanton. 23 pp. Free upon direct application
to Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

“Welch, l/Villiam Henry, and the Heroic Age of
American Medicine,” Simon and James Thomas
Flexner. Viking Press, New York. 1941. 539 pp.
$3.75. A teacher of bacteriology at Johns Hopkins

(Continued on page 475)
469

Recreation for the Physically Handicapped.

NE DAY BACK IN 1939 I was
0 invited by Charles “Doc”

Rose, Advisor of the David
1. Kelly Opportunity Club of
Newark, to help him convey a
group of these handicapped people, the majority
victims of paralysis, to a private estate at a lake
resort. Expecting these people to be depressed
and lethargic, I was amazed to find them jovial,
active and merry, even to the extent of jibing each
other about their respective handicaps. I realized
that they dislike even the slightest demonstration
of sympathy from other people and demand treat-
ment accorded to normal human beings.

Their fondness for water play is unparalleled
and we found ourselves being submerged in the
water without mercy. Noting their desire for
more varied activity, I organized the group for
softball and watched them with admiration as they
skillfully manipulated crutches and stiffened mem—
bers through the intricacies of the game. There
followed a period of complete relaxation, and as
we idly gazed at the wooded scene about us, their
combined voices rose in song. Sitting in the soft
dusk and listening to sentimental ballads or catchy
tunes as the mood swept them, I unconsciously
began to formulate plans to link my playground
activities with those of this club. Slowly but surely
we became fast friends, and they unhesitatingly
inquired if they might participate in my play-
ground program. Accordingly, I set aside Tues-
day evening, from seven to nine o’clock, for a
diversified program to include softball, touch foot-
ball, basketball, table tennis, deck shuffleboard,
mah jong, and glee club. After each “workout,”
we availed ourselves of the Y.M.C.A. pool facili-
ties which are offered to this club gratuitously.

The play urge, which is commonly acknowl-
edged by foremost authorities as one of the basic
human instincts, manifests itself to a much greater
degree in the makeup of the physically handi-
capped than in the normal
human being. This can be at-
tributed to the fact that free
play requiring total muscular
movement, so calmly accepted
as the heritage of the normal
individual, is in a large measure

470

By I. FRED CONROE
Director
South Eighth Street Playground
Newark. New Jersey

"The value of recreation activity as
a means of promoting physical and
mental fitness is undisputed. but in

addition, for the
capped individual, it fulfills his vital

desire for parity with all groups."

physically hand i-

  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
     
  
 
  
   
    
  
   
  

denied to the physically hal ..
capped. To the brave, howe .
there are no insurmountable c .,
stacles; thus we see young 11 .
and women who have conqu -
their physical handicaps to such an extent t
they possess the necessary skill and coordinati
for participation in many games, sports and ot
recreation activities.

When Hallowe’en rolled around, the club vot
to enter a float in the Newark Hallowe'en pa
A truck obtained from the neighborhood paint
was converted, with loving care and efficiency, in
a beautiful float that captured one of the covet.
prizes. The entertainment committee met at t
playground and arranged an excellent progra
for a Hallowe’en party to be held at headquarte

Prior to the Christmas season, the glee cl
worked diligently to prepare an inspiring progr
of carols. This was very effectively presented '
a dimly lighted setting, and we found ourselv
misty-eyed observers of revealing emotions.
the lights went on, the participants were agai
the controlled, carefree people they wished to b

   
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
    
   
  

We learned that winter is a difficult season f c
these people, as many of them suffer from ch
blains because of their poor blood circulation. r
fear of icy pavements and wintry blasts are defin'
factors in attendance, for only the most intre
members venture out in face of these obstacles.

The spring weather brought out a large gro
for softball; becoming adept at the game, t
clamored for competition with other handicap '
clubs. Accordingly, games were arranged ~-
the Moore Alumni of Jersey City and the Clif
Handicapped Club at home and away. Ga
were played with deadly earnestness and cor .
tition was keen. It was a thrilling, awes
sight for the many spectators who came to wat
these handicapped teams pit their wits and cri
pled limbs against each other.

On the first Saturday '
September each year, the S
erville Elks conduct a field (1
for physically handicapped '
dividuals of all ages. I ‘
tended two field days, actin

(Continued on page 474)

WORLD AT PLAY

ONE hundred houses
in London, according
to The New York
Times, have been be-
I queathed to a boys’ club in Plymouth by Albert
1 Casanova Ballard, a millionaire London builder,
, who died recently at Teignmouth, Devonshire.
l Mr. Ballard became interested in the Devon city
he subsequently “adopted” when he visited there
in 1923. He was struck by the unruly conduct of
‘ boys on the streets, according to The London
l Daily Mail, and by a series of gifts tried to give
1 them new interests. At first he erected at a cost of

Boys’ Club Receives
Hundred Houses

 

£100,000 a palatial structure known as the Ballard ,

‘ Boys’ Institute. The club educated boys of ability
i at private schools and universities. To commemo-
. rate the Coronation in 1937 he made a gift of
L £10,000 to the boys of the town. Another gift of
? £2,000 went to the University of the South-West,

Exeter, for thirty scholarships for boys of the club.

The club building suffered heavily in the bombing

‘ of the city by Nazi planes last year.

IN World War I many
recreation fields and
centers were given as

memorials to men who
‘ died in the service. Amsterdam, New York, is

one of the first cities in the country to acquire and
dedicate a playground field as a memorial to a
fallen hero of Pearl Harbor. The new playground,
which contains five acres, is known as Memorial
Field in honor of William E. Hasenfuss, Jr., who
was killed at Pearl Harbor. The dedication cere—
monies were held on July 28, 1942, and the new
playground, in a neighborhood which has long
needed a recreation center for people of all ages,
was exceedingly popular all through the summer.

Playfields as
Memorials

ONE of the popular
activities in the varied
recreation program
offered by the Austin,
Texas, Recreation Department is dancing for
adults, especially married men and women. There
are six dance clubs each managed by a board ap-
pointed by the Recreation Department from among
its members. Each club pays a small fee to take
care of the music, but the dances are held at one

Dance Clubs Formed
for Adults

Children Go Hunting

of the recreation centers. Some member of the
staff attends each dance largely as a demonstration
of the interest of the Department.

Another popular activity is the Austin Athletic
Club organized by the Recreation Department.
There is now an enrollment of over 1,200 indi-
viduals ranging in age from small children to
adults who pay an annual membership fee of a

dollar.

THE mother-and-
daughter picnic held
at Pendora Park in
Reading, Pennsyl-
vania, last August Was a city-wide celebration
which all mothers and daughters were invited to
attend. The Department of Public Playgrounds
and Recreation was host at the picnic which lasted
throughout the evening. From 2 :30 to 3 :00 there
were get-acquainted games; from 3:00 to 4:00,
picnic games; and from 4:00 to 5 :15, progressive
games. From 5:15 to 5:45 games such as peg
board were played. A picnic supper at 5 :45 was
followed by assembly and stunts at 7:00.

Mother-and-Daughter
Picnic Popular

FROM June 26th to
28th the 1942 Festival
of Arts, Crafts, and
Hobbies promoted by
the Los Angeles ‘Department of Playground and
Recreation was held at the arts and crafts center
at Barnsdall Playground. Each playground held
its own exhibit the first and second week in; June,
and the winning projects from each playground
were placed on exhibit at the festival.

A special feature at the festival was a program
of music, dances, and dramatic plays given out of
doors on the lawn and among the olive trees. There
were demonstrations showing how the various
projects were made, and ribbon awards were dis-
tributed for the most outstanding examples.

A Festival of Arts,
Crafts, and Hobbies

POTS into planes, cans
into cannons, was.the
avowed purpose on
Reading, Pennsyl-
vania, playgrounds as energetic young charges
toured the city on scrap scavenger hunts. Instead
of the usual useless assortment of items, the lead-

471

_ with a Purpose

472 IVORLD AT PLAY

ers asked them to collect broken crowbars, pieces
of chain, lead pipes, iron lamp stands or racks, old
water faucets, and wrecked car wheels.

The playground children of \Vatertown, New
York, are helping in the campaign conducted by
the local post of the American Legion to collect
used victrola records. These old records are sold
for scrap, and the money received will be used to
buy new records to send to the men in uniform all
over the world. The Recreation Department,
which is helping in the campaign, announces that
the playground which collects the largest number
will receive twenty-five points toward the play-
ground championship; the second largest, ten
points, etc. The swimming pool collecting the
largest number will receive twenty-five points to-
ward the pool championship.

An Innovation in Indoor Skating—Capitaliz-
ing on youngsters’ perennial tendency to skate on
forbidden indoor floors, the recreation director at
Memphis, Tennessee, blithefully invited her
charges to bring over their indoor fiber skates and
whirl around the community center gyms. Music
fioated over the arenas through a public address
system to enhance the sport and subtly imbue the
skaters with a sense of rhythm. The hours from
5 to 7 P. M. were snatched up for the skating,
thereby using that period which gyms formerly
frittered away in idle emptiness. The skaters
waxed enthusiastic over the innovation—they are
rapidly becoming professional in the art, a healthy
hobby at that!

A “Wartime in Your Home” Series—The
Buffalo, New York, Museum of Science is cooper-
ating with the Erie County and Buffalo Home
Bureaus and the Erie County and Buffalo War
Councils in presenting an afternoon series of
“\Vartime in Your Home.” Subjects covered in-
clude: Your House—Furnishings, Equipment,
and Management—how to make them last by care
and. repair; How to Budget Your Time More Ef-
ficiently; Your Garden; Your Budget; Your
Family’s Food; Problems of Family Life from a
Psychological Point of View; Your Family's
Clothes; and Your Family’s Fun.

The Rohrboughs Keep “Open House” ——
Lynn Rohrbough, editor of Handy, is well known
to social workers. Mr. Rohrbough’s friends in the
movement will be interested to know that at his
home in Delaware, Ohio, five miles from the

  
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
    
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
  

campus of the Ohio \Vesleyan University, open
house is held once a month. There are no neon
lights or winking road signs in front of the Rohr-
boughs’ home. They announce their meeting
once a month in a quiet corner of the local ne
paper or in letters to those who might be inter
ested. The meetings are operated at cost. Ea
group coming appoints some member to collect
fee of about 35 cents to meet expenses. Music an
folk dancing are enjoyed at these informal gath-
erings which are helping materially to devel -
social recreation leadership—From an article '

H fghroad .

Ingenious First Aid Kits—Pocket size firs
aid kits are being turned out by handy Camp Fir
Girls in Alfred, New York. Simple tobacco tins ar
deprived of all traces of their former identity, re
ceiving a sparkling coat of white paint in the proc-
ess. All necessary supplies are tucked in with pre-
cision and first aid is thus condensed to pocket size.

Home Port in England—Bulletins from Bri-
tain, a publication of the British Information Ser-
vices, tells the story of one Mother Wilkinso
performing recreational miracles for allied soldier
in Liverpool: “When war began this brisk, white-
haired lady, who is not young but certainly is n
old, saw a mental home . . . just across from he
home evacuating its patients. She moved over t
the empty house and began fixing cups of tea a .-
sandwiches for groups of soldiers and sailors bil
leted in the town.

“Today, with the blessings of the port welf
committee and of the brigadier of a near-by ack
ack unit, she entertains up to 500 men nightly
Once the brigadier turned up unannounced on
doorstep with 400 boys en route for Canada lin
up behind him, wanting a night’s entertainme
Mother Wilkinson conjured up a movie and a c
of tea and sandwiches for everybody.”

Rules for Health—“Play some each day”
one of the five rules of health offered by the “K .
Well Crusade” which has been started by the I
stitute of Life Insurance, representing life ins ,
ance companies and agents throughout the co 7
try. The crusade was worked out in consultati
with Dr. Thomas Parran, Surgeon General of t
United States Public Health Service, and endor .
by Paul V. McNutt, Chairman of the Office a
Defense Health and Welfare Services.

WORLD AT PLAY 473

The Library Follows the Worker—With de-
fense industries picking up thousands of workers
and depositing them into strange cities all over
the country, libraries are working overtime in an
effort to follow the worker to his new home.
Branch libraries are set up wherever possible, or
small deposit collections are placed in new housing
projects. Bookmobiles travel through the more
widely scattered groups, extending their literary
leisure on minimum identification. In Tennessee
the recreation center of a TVA project has been
turned into a twenty-four hour library, dubbed a
“godsend” by night-shift workers.

Since many defense workers are freshly im-
ported from regions which have never had library
service, the newcomers must be educated to use
city resources. Boy Scouts deliver handbills, leaf-
lets are given out with sugar rationing cards, or
publicity is incorporated with welcome services.

A library application card was filed one day in
Tennessee. The address read simply, “Trailer
under the willow.”

“How-to-Do-It” Bulletins—Under the title,
“Publications on Interpretation,” the Social Work
Publicity Council, I30 East 22nd Street, New
York City, has issued a number of bulletins and
publications. Among those of special interest to
recreation workers are Annual Reports and H 020
to Improve Them (50 cents) ; Bulletins—How to

Make Them More Egecti've (50 cents) ; H ow to °

Plan a Public Relations Program (50 cents) ;
Photographs and How to Use Them ($1.00) ; and
Slides—How to Make and Use Them (35 cents).
Copies of these publications may be secured from
the Social Work Publicity Council.

Victory Gardens in Cedar RapidsHThe war
and the Victory Garden idea have been a definite
impetus to the garden program in Cedar Rapids,
Iowa. This year 2,227 children of school age grew
gardens. This is more than a quarter of the entire
total of compulsory school age children in the city,
which the census shows to be in excess of 8,000.
The gardens, sponsored by the Playground Com-
mission of Cedar Rapids, were started in 1926
with seven gardens and 219 gardeners. Any school
child may participate in the program on request.
He may grow his garden in one of the ten plots
now being operated or he may have his own gar-
den at home. Upon signing up for the garden,
each child pledges that he will cultivate it once
each week under the supervision of the garden

 

 

DIAMOND

Products at the Front

Diamond tool steel that used

to go into the famous pitch-
ing horseshoe line is now

going into tools for victory.

DIAMOND BALK'HDRSESHOE co.

46|O Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

director and that he will keep his garden and the
paths free from weeds. Failure to do so means for-
feiting the garden. This year the children planted
vegetables that adapt themselves to canning pur-
poses. A large amount of vegetables grown in the
gardens are canned at home.

The Children’s Charter in Wartime—Em-

phasis is placed on children first in all plans for
protection, in the Children’s Charter in Wartime

(adopted by the U. S. Children’s Bureau Commis-

sion on Children in Wartime. There is considera-
tion of evacuation of children from danger zones.
Mention is made of the possibility of war vaca-
tions for city children, It is stated that adequate
health and recreation services must be maintained
for children and their parents in each of the com-
munities where war production or military camps
are established and that accomplishing this re-
quires proper staffing with recreation leaders and
calls also for adequate recreation facilities.

The home is declared vital in giving a sense of
security and hope and love, and of course recrea-
tion has an important part in making the home
what it ought to be.

474

 
 
 

Sm' “Merry Christmas”

with RECREATION

THIS YEAR, in choosing our Christmas

gifts, we’ll all want to make every penny

  
  
     
 

count by selecting gifts which will be useful

   

' as well as attractive.

  
    
 

Have you thought of giving that relative or

friend of yours who is a recreation worker, a

   

teacher, or a club leader a year’s subscription

 
 

to RECREATION as a Christmas present?

   

We’ll be glad to send a gift card to the recipi-

   

ent of your gift.

  
 

Subscription $2.00 per year

  
 

0 NATIONAL RECREATION

A S S O C I A T I O N
315 Fourth Ave., New York City

    
   
 

Christmas Suggestions—The American Red
Cross has issued an attractive bulletin entitled
“Merry Christmas,” designed to make Christmas
“as cheerful, as pleasant, as American as it can be
—no matter where it is celebrated.” The bulletin
offers some general suggestions on organization,
ideas on program content, illustrated directions for
simple decorations and gifts and, finally, descrip—
tions of a few Christmas games to play at parties
held in wards or recreation halls. Anyone desir-

ing a copy may secure it by writing the American
Red Cross, Washington, D. C.

An Invitation from the Newark Museum—
The Lending Department of the Newark, New
Jersey, Museum has issued an invitation to hold-
ers of Newark public library cards to use in their
program of arts and crafts, nature study, story-
telling and games the articles available through
the Museum. The lending collection contains
about 10,000 object including arts and crafts from
many countries, and many natural science and in-
dustrial specimens. These may be borrowed free
of charge for any educational purpose.

RECREATION FOR THE PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED

  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
 
   
    
  
   

Recreation for the Physically
Handicapped

(Continued from page 470)

as coach of the David I. Kelly Softball Team .
as an ofhcial. I derived a great deal of satisf r
tion in being able to watch these courageous inch
viduals compete with each other.

As a most gratifying climax to these activit'
I was tendered a surprise birthday party at t
home of “Doc” Rose and was offered the title (
Athletic Director, which I accepted.

Our activities expanded to include attendan
at college and professional football, basketball an
hockey games and radio programs for which '
obtained complimentary tickets. Our most recen
and near future activities include sound movi
paddle tennis, instruction in archery and first ai
and a program for trips to various educatio
institutions and parks.

It is essential that the recreation director have
full understanding and appreciation of the rar
compensatory philosophy of the physically hand'
capped. Daily facing the reality of a great depr'
vation, all petty irritations and difficulties are rel
gated to the background to be supplanted by I
carefree, undaunted attitude. The discerning d
rector recognizes this attitude as substantial con
pensation and treats it as such.

Christmas Time in Danville
( Continued from page 4.52)

Entries must all be located within the incorporate
limits of Danville; no display would be consider
unless registered on an entry blank; all displa
must be in readiness not later than 5 :00 P. M. a
Tuesday, December 23rd, and they must rem'
intact until 10:00 P. M. January Ist. The displ
might be either outside the home, on the lawn, .
trees, or inside the home, but in any case it mu
be visible from the street or sidewalk. During t
eleven day period all displays must be lighted
least from 5 :00 to 10:00 P. M. Itemized statemen
showing the cost of materials must be made avai
able to the judges when called for.

A route covering all locations was worked 01
and published in the paper so that the thousan .
riding around the city would have a guide. Thi
was the first year Danville had had this type 0
contest, and it proved a huge success in reaching
the goal of “Christmas everywhere.”

CHRISTMAS TIME IN DANVILLE 475

The fifth annual Christmas carol sing was held
last year in the Square. As in former years or—
ganized groups went throughout the city singing
at various places. No previous sing has ever been
as successful as was that conducted by the com-
bined church and organization choirs and glee
clubs, a cappella choir and quartet, which pre—
sented selections on a stage erected for the pur—
pose, while thousands. joined in from the sidewalk
and street. Words of the carols were flashed on
a screen and the entire program was broadcast to
the shut-ins and those unable to be downtown for
the event.

When Money Raising Is Fun!

For more than a decade Christmas baskets of
food have been distributed in Danville under the
auspices of the local Elks Lodge, and the raising
; of funds for the purpose has become a part of the
3 general merrymaking. The necessary funds used
‘ to be raised through minstrel shows. Recently,
 however, an anuual newspaper sale has brought in
enough money to provide more than 1,200 baskets.
Papers for the sale are furnished by the C ommer-
cial-News, which also provides distinctive caps and
aprons to be worn by the “old newsboys” when
selling the papers. Papers were sold for ten cents
and up, as much as $50 being paid for single
copies. Stunts promoted by the various teams of
“old newsies” to pep up sales, along with funny
costumes and an odd assortment of noise makers,
gave the event a Roman holiday atmosphere that
attracted crowds to the city to see the fun.

The Presentation of the Nativity
Every year the Danville Masonic Lodge pre-
sents the Nativity as. a reminder of the reason for
celebrating the Christmas season. This produc—
tion has been given by the Masons for the past

thirteen years with only slight variations in the —

cast. Capacity audiences witness the two annual
showings.

In addition to these features, there are many
others which help to make Danville’s Christmas
season unforgettable, The Home WorkshOp Club
makes toys during the year which are turned over
to a local organization for distribution. Several
of the civic clubs have toy gift exchanges among
the members, the toys being given to a local
agency for its use. Many churches, women’s clubs,
and organizations of all kinds hold annual parties
for the children. _

These are some of things which Danville does
at Christmas time. What does your city do?

©UZT 9% ATHLETIC

Tim/m EQUIPMENT

Hit: 3‘," I or mu: we .16!!! L252!» $1.19: Arrives. 8.25.31.
erl". mu N. Hacker El l:-*-.-cagu iii

 

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation

( Continued from page 469)

who saw the importance of medicine in relation to
the welfare of all mankind. _

l/Vildlife. “Improving the Farm Environment
for Wildlife,” Wallace B. Grange and W. L. Mc-
Atee. U. S. Department of the Interior. Conser-
vation Bulletin 12, Superintendent of Documents,
Washington, D. C. 1942. 56 pp. 10 cents.

Wood Fuel. The local sportsmen’s club of
Ware, Massachusetts, has purchased a 58-acre
wood lot. Ninety members of the club will cut
their winter supply and three times as many more
citizens have applied for an opportunity. A small
stumpage charge will meet all costs, and the club
will retain the land as a future game preserve.

 

W.————*————“l

HAVE YOU ORDERED YOUR
CONGRESS PROCEEDINGS?

N ow ready for distribution — the
printed Proceedings of the War
Recreation Congress held in Cin-
cinnati, Ohio, September 28th to
October 2nd.

Speeches at the general meet-

} ings and luncheon sessions, and
' summaries of all the section meet-
ings are included in this volume.

Your recreation library will not
be complete without a copy of the
Proceedings of the Twenty—seventh
National Recreation Congress.

Price $1.00

*** ‘

National Recreation Association
New York City

3 l5 Fourth Avenue

 

476 YOUTH GARDENS—A VICTORY PROJECT

Junior Arts and Activities

for the elementary

teacher
and

ACTIVITIES ON PARADE
for the pupils
THE MOST. COMPLETE

EDUCATIONAL PLAN
EVER PUBLISHED

TEACHER :

you owe it to
yourself and to
your pupils to
know how these

two monthly *
publications
can help

0
Send 25c for Sample Copies to

Iunior Arts and Activities
740 Rush Street, Chicago. Ill.

Youth Gardens—A Victory Proiecf

(Continued from page 466)

radishes.” How those children have talked about
their radishes! One little girl, apologizing for not
having any exhibit, said, “We ate my garden
all up.”

Young gardeners as valiant as the heroes of
Bataan and Corregidor carried on. One dug his
plot out of cement-hard soil. Another fought
alkali soil that burned up plants the child kept
replacing. A third boy kept his garden growing
splendidly in a narrow aisle between two rows of
cabins where sun could not penetrate. Seven such
plucky soldiers received small illustrated flower or

tree books.

Each child present who had won no speciiied
award was given a strawberry carton containing
plants to be set out and watched for later blooming.

The singers had provided two groups of nature
song, classics, and in closing, everyone stood and
joined in “America.”

Through the weeks of garden growth Floral
Unit members had added to the care of home,
children, and their gardens—hours of listening

 

   
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   

post duty, Red Cross knitting, sewing, and First
aid classes. Inspection of contest gardens a task?
Yes! But they had managed.

Community night concluded, a member said,
“Never in all my life have I seen so perfect]
ecstatic a lot of youngsters.” Not a bomb 11a
fallen. Results had proved commensurate with the
outlay.

At least a few of these youth have adventure
upon a road that will lure them through life int
treasure plots. Digging, they will uncover rich
secrets of soil and seed and growth. They wil-l
learn to love the feel, the redolence of moist, fresh-
turned earth, the opulence of self-grown food. In
garden camaraderie they will exchange primal
wealth and strength of spirit.

And— just maybe—some Visalia parents will
get the vegetable growing habit!

The Apple Is King!

(Continued from page 448)

ter sandwiches, cheese on toothpicks stuck in ap-
ples, applesauce, apple fritters, apple strudel, and
spiced apple cider.

The last is a heartwarming brew: 4 quarts of
sweet cider, 1 tablespoon whole allspice, 1% cups
brown sugar, I tablespoon whole cloves, V2 tea-
spoon salt, and a dash of cayenne. Simply boil the
ingredients together for 15 minutes and serve
nicely hot. Float a marshmallow atop each punch
glass and listen to the contented hum.

There you are. Your soldiers have played and
picnicked and departed. They all had a beamin
good frolic. Now it’s time for you to go help your
self to a whopping piece of spicy apple pie.

An Old-Fashioned Christmas Tree

(Continued from page 445)

A large bucket filled with sand will make
excellent base for your Christmas tree. The san
may be used, if necessary, to extinguish hr
Decorate the bucket with paint or colored coo
struction paper.

It is safer to attach the top of your tree to tl
wall to prevent it from tumbling over. A simp
way to do this is to take several feet of wire an
tie the center around the top of the tree. Pull eac
end of the wire taut and nail each end to a pictur
molding.

NOTE: This little article represents the second in th
“Make and Mend It” series. \Ve are counting on 011

readers for suggestions which will make this page as
practical and useful as possible.

PE CIAL C OMBINA TI ON OFFER

 ‘u'-

' WO MAGAZINES

   

HILE we must clutch mili-

tary Victory with one
hand, the other must keep a firm
grasp of the civilization we set
out to save. . . .
These two publications are mak-
ing a distinctive contribution in
helping to preserve those Ideals
and democratic Principles that
have always characterized
American Homes and Recrea- 

tion in Family and Group activ-
ities. . . .

0n the Editorial Staffs of these
two Magazines are the leading
authorities in the fields of Rec- 1
reation and American Family ‘
Life, who will keep you well in- ‘

formed on these timely and vital
subjects.

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
 

     

 
   
   

 
  

Ream-non ‘   

1  The /

1

     

I.

«I;

Get these

For Practically
the Price of

ONE

REGULAR SUBSCRIPTIONS:

One-Year Subscription (12 Issues)
for “RECREATION” ........... .. $2. 00

PLUS

One-Year Subscription (12 Issues)
for “THE AMERICAN FAMILY" $3. 00

Total Value ................. .. $5. 00
You Get BOTH for ONLY . . $3.00

r--------------------------------------------------1

R E C R E A T I O N h
The Magazine of Play and Recreation,

315 Fourth Avenue,
New York City, N. Y.

Enclosed please find Check—Money Order—amounting to $. . . .  3.,
for which please send me the next 12 issues of “RECREATION
and “THE AMERICAN FAMILY,” as per your spec1al Combina-

tion OPfer. *

 

Name:
Street: F

City: State :

-----------
h-----------

477

478 MUNICIPAL AND COUNTY PARKS

Written to be used

The Thanksgiving Book

Your community center plans to present a local
festival—see “Thank You, America"

Your church wants to give a harvest program in Sun-
day School—see “A Thanksgiving Ceremonial”

Your service men's center is plotting a party for
soldiers and sailors—see “The Apple 15 King!”

Your family is squirming for games al the Thanks-
giving table—see “Family Fun at the Table”

Your county is looking for a regional celebration—
see “Victory Harvest F estival”

Your class is studying the history of Thanksgiving
—see “Foure Men Went on Fowling"

0 These are all included in The Thanksgiving

Book. Also: harvest customs in foreign coun-
tries, hislory and text of the Mayflower Com-
pact, presidential proclamalions, an essay by
Stephen Vincent-Benet, words and music of
three songs, and a seven-page bibliography.

Price 25 cents

Order- today

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue New York City

 

Municipal and County Parks

(Continued from page 456)

one-third million dollars were reported by 124
cities. ~

Types of Park Administration. The separate park
department was revealed by the study to be the
outstanding type of park managing authority. Five
hundred and sixty—five cities have established park
departments, in addition to the 45 park and reere;
ation departments, 89 recreation departments, and
36 special park, golf course, or swimming pool de-
partments reporting in the study. This group rep-
resents the agencies established exclusively to fur-
nish park and recreation service. It comprises
nearly half of the total agencies reporting in the

study and 57 per cent of all agencies in cities over
10,000.

The next most important group consists of
mayors, city councils, town trustees, and other
local municipal authorities in cities where there is
no special machinery for park operation and main-
tenance. These local authorities number 474 or 31
per cent of the total park managing agencies. They

  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
    

outnumber separate park departments only
communities under 10,000.

One of the most significant findings is the ext
to which park service is administered by boards
compared with single executives. Of all the spe '
park departments reporting, 79 per cent are
ministered by ofiicial park boards with admini
tive authority, in addition to 4 per cent admin'
tered by advisory boards. In cities of all siz
separate park department under an administrat
board is the predominating type of park manag'
authority.

County Parks

A special study was made of parks administe
under county auspices. Several county park 3
tems are in metropolitan regions, although m
of. the counties reporting are rural counties t
have established one or more parks as outd
recreation centers. More than two out of th
county parks, the location of which was repor
are outside city limits. One hundred and fifty—t
counties with 779 park properties totaling 197, «
acres were reported in 1940. These figures '
elude information submitted by a few metropol'
park authorities whose districts do not coin '
with county boundaries. It is clear that relati
few of the approximately 3,050 counties in
United States have acquired any park acreage.

County parks vary in size from areas of 1
than one acre to Tucson Mountain of 29,000
Pima County, Arizona. Nearly 70 per cent of-
eounty park acreage is in properties of more t
1,000 acres. More than 70 per cent of all
county parks, the acreage of which was repo
however, are properties of less than 100 acres.
average county park is a 253-acre area or 1
than ten times as large as the average munie'
park.

Nearly five times as many counties re
parks in 1940 as in the 1925-26,study and
total acreage was nearly tripled, indieati
marked expansion during this fifteen-year pe
It is clear, however, that the movement for
acquisition of county parks made less e;
during the last five-year period than in the a. “
immediately preceding it. This is illustrated
the following table indicating the acquisition c
of county parks:

Before 1901- 1911- 1921- 1931-
1900 1910 1920 1930 1940

No. of Parks... 21 20 22 159 308

Acreage . . . . . ..781 1,396 2,169 49,497 39,537 19,1

MUNICIPAL AND COUNTY PARKS 479

The 152 counties reporting parks in 1940 are
located in 27 states. Michigan leads with 33 coun-
ties, followed by Wisconsin and California with

25 and 20 counties respectively.

Facilities for picnicking are provided in more
county park systems than any other type of recre-
ation use center or facility. One thousand sixty-
seven picnic centers are reported by 95 counties,
87 of which report a total of 7,471 outdoor fire-
places. Tennis courts numbering 502 are next
numerous, followed by 347 softball diamonds, 265
baseball diamonds, I77 ice skating areas, and 135
bathing beaches. Trails for horseback riding, hik-
ing, and nature study are important features.

Of the forty-six park recreation activities in-
cluded in the study, picnicking is by far the most
common, being reported by 58 per cent more coun-
ties than swimming, the next popular activity.
Camping, baseball, fishing, softball, horseshoes,
boating, tennis, and winter sports follow in the
order named.

Expenditures from regular funds totaling
$12,318,321 were reported by county park authori-
ties in 1940. Approximately 9 million dollars
of this amount, or a larger percentage of the total
expenditure than in preceding studies, was for
operating. and maintenance expenses. The amount
spent for land, buildings, and improvements in the
period 1936-1940 inclusive, was nearly 39 million
dollars; the total amounts spent for these purposes
between 1925 and 1940 was in excess of 111 mil—
lion dollars, indicating a tremendous expansion in
county park facilities during this period.

The estimated value placed on their parks by
authorities in 109 counties totaled $183,829,968.
More than 80 per cent of this total is in seven
counties.

The study showed that on the average a wide
margin of profit was secured in 1940 from the
operation of eighteen-hole golf courses and that
nine-hole courses yielded a slight net return. Ina
come at swimming pools met a larger percentage
of expenses than at bathing beaches, which cost
nearly twice as much to operate as they yielded in
revenue. Unlike similar facilities in city parks,
boat houses yielded a profit and organized camps
cost far in excess of the income they produced.

The park board or commission is the predomi-
nating form of special county park managing au-

“The Christmas Book”

IT is not too early to begin your planning

for home and community Christmas cele-
brations. And here is a booklet for recrea-
tion leaders, teachers, club leaders, and
others who wish to plan special Christmas
programs and to inject into their celebra-
tions something of the charm and beauty
associated with the old traditional Christ-
mas customs.

In the various articles which make up the
booklet will be found novel ways to dis-
tribute gifts at Christmas parties; sugges-
tions for enlivening the program of Christ-
mas caroling; and many interesting ideas
from the Christmas customs of other lands
for party themes, decorations, and re-
freshments.

Order your copy now

Price 50 cents

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

315 FOURTH AVENUE New YORK CITY

 

thority. In 54 counties parks are administered
under a park department, all but one of which are
under a board or commission. In 58 counties parks
are administered directly by the county managing
authorities. It is significant that in nearly every
instance where a county has developed a compre-
hensive system of county parks, this has been
achieved under a park board.

Hymn for Thanksgiving

(Continued from page 438)

do so in the form of charity, by transmitting per
mail, whatever is deemed an equivalent in money,
to St. Luke’s Hospital, New York, where it will
be appropriated to the relief of discharged and
disabled soldiers, and their sick wives and chil-
dren, including those of soldiers still in the service.

“Nothing is solicited, but anything will be grate—
fully accepted and faithfully applied to a class of
sufferers, eminently deserving of consideration on
an occasion of National Gratitude.”

480 THE IVAR RECREATION CONGRESS

 

“Play in Education ”

. . . BY IOSEPH LEE

Out of print for many years,
Joseph Lee’s book, which pre-
sents a picture of the child and
interprets the meaning of play to I
him, has been reprinted

No changes or additions have
been made to the text, which pre-
sents Mr. Lee’s fundamental phi-
losophy of play—mas basic and
vital now as when he first gave
expression to it over twenty-five
years ago.

. . . Price $1.80

NATIONAL RECREATION

ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue New York City

 

 

The War Recreation Congress
(Continued from page 437)

five boys has an opportunity for favorable recrea-
tional activities, while only one out of every ten
girls has this opportunity. There has been a
spectacular increase in juvenile delinquency since
Pearl Harbor, especially among girls who are be-
tween the ages of twelve to fifteen. Teen-age girls
should he enlisted to help with the community’s
war effort, not only because of its value to the war
program but also because in this way they can be.
kept busy and normal in wartime. To meet the
teen-age problem, the Congress urged the use of
imagination and initiative in developing recreation
programs; training boys and girls to dance and
play together but. letting them plan their own
parties; finding places where boys and girls can
get together without too much organized activity;
local committees should also be formed to make
investigations of community facilities and assign
responsibility to adolescent girls and give recogni-
tion to them for their services.

Special attention was given to the problem of
women in industry. There was an announcement
that thirteen million women are now engaged in
war industry with five more million expected by

  
 
   
   
    
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
   

the end of the year. Communities were urged t
study the problem and see that public and priva
recreation agencies were working cooperatively i
providing needed facilities and leadership to ser
the women who are going into defense industries.

Adjusting Sports Programs to Serve
Wartime Needs

Through combative sports and intensified physi
cal training students in upper schools should b
hardened now for their future job as soldier
Officers from the armed services and leaders i
physical education and recreation agreed on thi
proposition at the Congress as indicated by th

two following statements:

“Till the war is over we must use our combative
and competitive sports and physical education to
develop our boys so that when they go into the Army
for military training they will have the needed phy-
sical endurance, stamina and agility to crush the
enemy,” said Dr. J. B. Nash, who presided.

Lt. Commander W. 0. Hunter of the Navy said

“Nothing develops a war fiyer’s unconquerable will
to win better than competitive sports, and no objec-
tive in his training is more important than the de-
velopment of the combative and competitive spirit.”

Other Emphases
Other problems faced by the War Recreatio
Congress included home and family recreation
tire rationing, high taxes, high prices, war strai
the glamour of the uniform for young girls—ma
ing it of the utmost importance that considerati
be given to recreation in the home and fami
circle. Churches considered how they might u
recreation to serve the normal needs of childre
war industry workers, and men in uniform. Bo
and girls’ clubs, organized camping, and ru
leaders, were among the other groups faced wi
special war problems and using recreation to c
tribute to the war effort. Special attention \
also given in meetings dealing with the use \
music and drama in the recreation programs
as aids to building morale and keeping up I
spirit of the people. Also in the midst of the d
cussion of war recreation problems, special atte
tion was given to long range planning and to p0
victory deve10pment of recreation for all the peo
During the Congress the delegates shared
folk dancing, community singing, social recreati
watched demonstrations of arts and crafts, visit
recreational facilities and areas in Cincinnati ; an
in the final session, after joining in the singing o
“The Battle Hymn of the Republic” went back t
their task refreshed and ready to give themselve
more wholeheartedly to the war effort.

l

COLLEGE WORKSHOPS 481

   
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 

'College Workshops

HE “PUTTERING SHOP” at Purdue University
is an interesting institution. The shop, located
the Union Building, is open from one to six and
even to ten every day. No fees are charged for
he use of the shop and most of the material as
'ell as professional instruction is free. A director
in charge. The invitation issued reads as
ollows:

Visit the Shop today and Bob will talk over your
wants and needs with you.

Don’t say, “I haven’t time.” You’ll always find
time to do the things you really want to do. Some
students spend only an hour a week in the ShOp.
Aren't you wasting an hour a week somewhere?
Think it over.

Don’t say, "I can’t make anything with my hands.”
No student who has really tried has been unable to
get results that surprised him. Of course, the more
we practice a thing, the more we learn, and the better
the work is that we turn out in the Shop. Try it
and see for yourself.

Dartmouth College at Hanover, New Hamp-
shire, also has a campus workshop, and students
re turning to handcrafts in their spare time with
rowing interest. From an original group of
bout seventy-five men working on various proj-
cts, the list of students actively practicing a dozen
different handcrafts has grown to 225 during the
year. If to this figure is added the number of
different men who drop in for odd jobs such,as
repairing skis, the total reaches 600.

The student workshop at Dartmouth has been
forced to expand its quarters since it first moved
into the drafting room of the old Thayer School of
Engineering, and a large adjoining room now
takes care of the boat builders who threaten to
crowd everyone else out of the shop. Program in-
cludes all forms of woodworking and cabinet work,
etal work, leather work, workshop planning and
afety, the use and care of tools, and special train-
ing for students who work as camp counselors.
As soon as fireproof quarters can be found for the
'i' shop a kiln will be added for plastics, pottery and
' llenarneling, and a forge will be set up for metal

forging.

One of the fruitful results reported is a number
of father and son workshops started at home as a
result of the Dartmouth program. Many hobbies
holding the promise of life-long satisfaction have
been started and a number of students have dis-
covered skills which they never thought they had.

   
 

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles ‘of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

    

   
 

MAGAZINES

Beach and Pool, August 1942

What Can Swimming Do to Help the Woman War
Worker? by Prudence Gunson

Swimming Pool Chlorination

Foot'bath Fundamentals, by George S. Nesladek

Beach and Pool, September 1942

War-Town Tonic, by David Dubow

Kansas City’s Triple Pool, by James D. Marshall
Algae Control

Childhood Education, September 1942

Toward a World Community, by Paul R. Hanna

Farm Camp, Homestead Style, by Mildred Jensen
Loomis

Children’s Religion, October 1942
American Character Dolls to Make

Hygeia, October 1942
A Better Way of Living, by W. W. Bauer

Journal of Health and Physical Education, September 1942

Foundations for Physical Fitness, by Charles C.
Wilson, M.D.

Recreation Leadership as a Career, by Regina Fejes
Recent Trends in Recreation, by James Edward
Rogers

Journal of Physical Education, September-October 1942
Tort Liability of the Y.M.C.A., by Charles F. Osborn

Library Journal, September 15, 1942

The Library’s Part in the Recreational Program, by
Mary D. Taylor-

JIodel Aircraft, August 1942 .

The Use of Extension Shafts on Model Planes, by W.
Hewitt Phillips

National Municipal Review

Short Rations for Local Government, by Thomas H.
Reed

National Parent-Teacher lilagazine, October 1942

Keep the Home Fires Bright, by Katherine White-
side Taylor

Nation’s Schools, October 1942

School House Planning—Six Views on Post War
Design

Public Safety, September 1942
Boys and Bikes, 'by Paul Edlund

' Scholastic Coach, September 1942

A Complete Program for Six-Man, by Stephen Epler

School Management, September 1942

Finishing and Maintaining Gym Floors, by Charles
Ethington

W omens Press, October 1942

A New Day for Coffee County, by Katherine F.
Dietz

The Night Owls’ Program, by Rhetta M. Arter

Youth Leaders Digest, June-September 1942

Community Use of School Buildings, by T. L. Head
(Continued on next page)

FOLK DANCES
AT THE WAR r
RECREATION CONGRESS

o Delegates to the War Recreation Con-
gress at Cincinnati, Ohio, were particu-
larly enthusiastic over the dances taught
Play Night and at the various sessions .
on folk dancing.

A bulletin, “Folk Dances at the War
Recreation Congress,” has been prepared
listing all the dances used at the Con-
gress, telling by whom they were taught
and referring to source material. In
some instances music, words, and direc-
tions are given.

Copies of the bulletin are available
at 20 cents each from the

9

National Recreation Association

3|5 Fourth Avenue New York City

 

PAMPHLETS
(Continued from page 481)

American History in Popular Games prepared by Henry
Russell Amory, Administrator. Bulletin No. 55—-
February 1942

Division of Community Service Programs, Work
Projects Administration, 1206 South Santee Street,
Los Angeles, California

Hale America, A Progressive Physical Achievement Plan

prepared by The Public Schools, Parks, and Play-

grounds of Chicago in cooperation with U. S. Ofiice of
Civilian Defense, Physical Fitness Division

Handbook of First Aid prepared by U. 5. Office of Ci-

vilian Defense in cooperation with the American Red

Cross. A supplementary handbook for advanced first
aid students

U. S. Government Printing Ofiice, Washington, D. C.,
price 10 cents

Helping the Foreign-Born Achieve Citizenship prepared
by the U. S. Ofiice of Education. Education and Na-
tional Defense Service, Pamphlet No. 21

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.,
price 20 cents

Songs Useful for Workers’ Groups, Tentative Annotated
List prepared by Labor Education Service, Inc., 437
West 59th Street, New York City, price 5 cents

Walking, Camping, and Nature Clubs of America, Direc-
tor, of .

Walking News, 556 Fairview St., Brooklyn, N. Y.,
price 15 cents

GIFTS ARE NOT ALIVAYS BROUGHT BY SANTA

Gifts Are Not Always Brought by Santa

(Continued from page 439)

the supper hour. They are brought by dwarfs, and
the children leave bowls of porridge on the door-
step for them. Santa comes riding on a goat in-l
stead of a reindeer.

The birds receive the largest number of gifts i
Sweden. Each family places a sheaf of grain on
pole or on the fence posts for the birds’ Christm
dinner.

The Spanish children place their straw-til
sleeves on the window sills so that the Magi ma
feed their horses while they leave gifts. The 01
people fill an Urn of Fate from which the gifts at
drawn on Christmas Day.

Knight Ruppert, who is the German Kr'
Kringle, is represented by a young girl wearing
golden crown and gowned in a flowing white r
She carries a small tree laden with gifts which 3
distributes. .

The Christmas Goat, or Old Man Christmas, '
the benefactor of Lapland. He wears a hooded f
coat, long whiskers, and a false nose.

In Belgium, the children make a great ce
mony of feeding Santa Claus’s reindeer on Chri
mas Eve. They fill plates with oats and grain
set them on a table before the hearth. In
morning they find the grain has been eaten
toys left in its place.

The children of Switzerland have their gi
br0ught to them by a radiant angel who rides i
sleigh drawn by six reindeer. She brings th
goodies to eat as well as toys to play with.

In Poland the pe0ple call at the parish house
Christmas morning where the priest presents t
with “Peace wafers,” which symbolize Peace
Earth—Good Will to Men. The people exch
Christmas wishes as the wafers are broken
eaten before returning home.

 
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
    
  
   
   
 

A Bird Cafeteria

(Continued from page 461)

container. A nail will securely attach it to a ra'
ing or a stake thrust into the ground.

Well, we’ve got some ideas for a starter a
made notes of many others. That floorwalk
though still puzzled, has at last decided we
harmless. So we gather up our purchases a
return home.

And now, if your garden isn’t the very b
equipped cafeteria in the city, your kitchen is!

New Publications in the LeisUre Time Field

7 The Junior Music Quiz

'. By Gladys Burch and Helmut Ripperger. G. Schirmer,
' Inc., New York. $1.00.

UN AND LEARNING are pleasantly combined in this book
' of twenty—five music quizzes, each Of which contains
twenty questions. Its scope is veritably that of the whole
world of music, for the subject matter ranges from
nursery songs and music in movies and radio to famous
personages, musical instruments and terms, operas, oper-
ettas and all types of compositions. Many sidelights and
bits of interesting information appear. The questions are
Of the “multiple choice” variety, which is somewhat
easier than the ordinary form. They are entertainingly
lphrased as well as being informative, and as the authors
say, “It is great sport to learn something while you are

playing a game.”

A War-Time Handbook for Young .

Americans

Words and pictures by Munro Leaf. Frederick A. Stokes
Company, Philadelphia. $1.25.
ITHE AUTHOR OF THIS BOOK proceeds on the theory that
boys and girls from seven and eight years Of age and
up are interested in the war and in the part they can
play in victory. 50 he tells them what they want to know
about constructive war-time behavior and Offers many
*suggestions regarding the things they can do tO help. The
text is delightfully written, and the illustrations tell a
story in themselves.

Entertaining ls Fun!

How To Be a POpular Hostess. By Dorothy Draper.
Doubleday, Doran and Company, Inc., ew York. $2.79.
HIS IS NOT -A COOK BOOK nor is it a book of etiquette,
but a stimulating volume on home entertaining. It is
written around the central thought, “Plan your party so
that you will have a good time, and your guests will
too 1” Each chapter is a testimonial to the fact that en-
tertaining is fun.

Aims and Guides for Improving the

Practice in Camping

The Children’s Welfare Federation, 435 Ninth Avenue,
New York. $.75.
HE PURPOSE OF THE STATEMENT Of aims and guides set
forth in this booklet has been to free practice rather
than freeze it and to give guidance by indicating a mini-
mum of good practice while leaving it to the individual
camp to formulate its own Objectives, adopt specific pro-
cedures, make its own evaluation, and change its prO-
gram and practice accordingly. Ninety-one persons rep-
resenting sixty-five member organizations of the Chil-
dren’s Welfare Federation cooperated in preparing the
material which is practical, concise, and to the point.
Another publication Of the Children’s Welfare Federa-
tion is Pre-Camp Health Examination: (10 cents).

Recreation and Morale

Anal sis b esse F. tei . ' '

D. y Babdbclk. N atignalnequIcgatiid’iingAggialfirmE helSZtS l

Sixteenth Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. $.30.
AIMED AT TEACHING AMERICAN YOUTH how to plan and

use leisure time, this booklet by Dr. Steiner with the

teaching aids Offered by Chester D. Babcock is one of a
series of “Resource Units” prepared for teachers as a
storehouse from which they may draw information and
hints 'On methods for building a teaching unit. Dr.
Steiner in Part One of the booklet presents an analysis
of recreation—its backgrounds and present trends; recre-
ational problems and their significance; steps toward the
solution of recreation problems; and hints on planning
for the recreation world of the future. In Part TwO,
Teaching Aids, Mr. Babcock applies the theory and phi-
losophy of recreation to the school program. '

Ice Hockey

By 'E'ddie Jeremiah.- Barnes Dollar ~Sp0rts Library. A.
S. Barnes and Company, New York. $1.00.
ACOMPLETE MANUAL for coaches and players, this book
outlines a definite system of play with new and tested
ideas on practical offensive and defensive formations.
The book is based on the principle that a hockey player

will never become a great player unless he is as good
with his head as he is with his body.

Indiancraft

By W. Ben. Hunt. The Bruce Publishing Company, Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin. $2.75.

ORE THAN FORTY-FIVE’ ARTICLES of Indiancraft are

described in this book, the result of the author’s
delving into many unusual and half forgotten sources Of
Indian lore. The book contains step-by—step directions for
making not only things which have time-tested fascina-
tion, but also unusual and authentic Objects such as head-
dresses, the love Hute, and throwing arrows. There is
also a chapter on a different and more satisfactory

method of tanning and one on whittling. There are many
photographs and illustrations.

Stepping Out

Prepared by Martha H. Clarke. The Girls’ Friendly

Society, U.S.A., 386 Fourth Avenue, New York. $.30.
THIS IS THE FIRST of a new series of programs for

young people tO be known as the “Cue Program
Series.” The booklets are designed tO be Of service in
all young people’s groups, whatever their affiliations.
Stepping Out includes six sections: Stepping Out from
Our Families; Best Foot Forward; Stepping Out Suc-
cessfully; Understanding Our Bodies; This Question Of
Petting; Stepping Out in Many Directions. The pro—
gram includes background material for the discussion

.leader, discussion starters and questions, and suggestions

for activities. And here again enters co-recreationl

483

484 NElV PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Rural Youth in Action.

By David Cushman Coyle. Prepared for the Ameri-
can Youth Commission. American Council on Edu-
cation, VVashington, D. C. Free.

The activities reported in this booklet were carried out
under the stimulation of the Rural Project of the Ameri-
can Youth Commission, and the booklet recording them
is in a sense a supplement to the more formal report of
the project, l’Vorking tt-ith Rural Youth, by Edmund
deS. Brunner. Throughout the project young people and
their leaders in established organizations were encour-
aged to improve the community situations facing them
by using resources at hand. Many concrete examples are
given of interesting accomplishments by young peOple’s
groups in rural districts.

A Christmas Manger.

By Uncle Gus. Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston.
$1.00.

Children who work on this Punch-Out-and-Play Book,
which depicts the manger scene, will always remember it
vividly. The 6gures require only folding—no pasting is
involved. Text from Matthew and Luke accompanies the
figures, which are particularly colorful.

Seven Quickly Administered
Tests of Physical Capacity.

And Their Use in Detecting Physical Incapacity for
Motor Activity in Men and Boys. By Royal Hud-
dleston Burpee, Ph. D. Bureau of Publications,
Teachers College, Columbia University, New York.
$1.85.

One of the important functions of this study is to stimu-
late teachers and counselors to become more aware_of
the importance of physical capacity as a conditioning
factor in education and to study further physical capacity,
conscious of the values and limitations of the methods at
their disposal.

A Community Health Program for the Y.W.C.A.

By Edith M. Gates. The Womans Press, New York.
$.85.

In her discussion of a community health program, Miss
Gates recognizes the importance of recreation, which she
states is essential to the health both of the individual and
the community. “The decrease in vigorous muscular ac-
tivity and in outdoor life today is a serious threat to
health which probably can be met only through well
planned recreation programs.”

Miss Gates’s very practical pamphlet is presented in
two parts. The first deals with the subject, “How the
Y.W.C.A. Faces Its Responsibility for Community
Health.” The second discusses “Special Programs, In-
cluding Discussion Questions and Special References.”
\Vhile intended primarily for leaders in the Y.W.C.A.,
the booklet will be helpful to club and church groups,
and to workers in other agencies.

Such Loving Kindness.

gySAnnie B. Kerr. The Womans Press, New York.
.2 .

A Christmas story in three parts which tells of a set-
tlement worker who gave a Christmas dinner which
brought joy to the hearts of a number of lonely pedple.

Healthful Living—Based on the
Essentials of Physiology.

By Jesse Feiring Williams, M.D., Sc. D. The Mac-
millan Company, New York. $1.60.

This is the third edition of Dr. Williams’ widely used
textbook, first published in 1919. In this latest form this
study of physi010gy should provide guidance for the in-'
telligent care of the body at a time in the history of man-

   
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  

kind when intelligent living is demanded more and In
A chapter entitled “Muscles in Action and the Hy
of Exercise” discusses desirable forms of games
sports of special interest to recreation workers.

Let’s Stay Well!

Songs of Good Health for School and Home. W
by Lysbeth Boyd Borie. Music by Ada R' '-

Theodore Presser Company, 1712 Chestnut S
Philadelphia. $1.00.

It is the hope of the authors that the enjoymom
children derive from singing these “Stay Well” -
will have an influence in helping to create lasting
habits. There are fourteen songs with music and .
trations in the book.

Publications for Jewish Groups.

Jewish Welfare Board, 220 Fifth Avenue, New

The Jewish Welfare Board announces four pr .
publications for Jewish groups: Creative Drama! I
the Jewish Club, by Zachary Serwer (50 cents) ;
for Jewish Groups, by Judith Kaplan Eisenstein ($1 .
Festival Crafts in the Jewish Center, by Temimo
Gezari (50 cents) ; and Folk Dancing for Jewish Ce
compiled by Ida Levin (10 cents).

0

Bill and the Bird Bander.

By Edna H. Evans. The
Philadelphia. $1.50.

This record of personal Observances covering
years of residence in Florida with trips to bird mo
and camps is presented in so pOpular a style that chi
will find keen enjoyment in following the experien
Bill and the Professor. Much worth-while mat
woven into the story along with many amusing sit

John C. Winston 0

Oflicers and Directors of the Nati

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARen BRAUCHER, President

JOIIN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. Lee, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the '
GUSTAVUS T. KIan, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG Bzms, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLR, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. Ronenr Woons BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, New York, N. Y.

Nils. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTII, Moline, Ill.
IIENRY L. CORBETT Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, acksonville. Fla.
MR3. THOMAS A. EDISON, V est Orange, N. J.
RoneRT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MeLVILLe H. HASKELL, TucSOn, Ariz.
MRS. CIIARLIzS V. HICIcox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAvus '1‘. Km“, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

RoseRT LAssITen, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. Ln, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALan, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIRzN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OcozN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAues W. \VADSWORTII, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH New York, N. Y.

FRznentcx M. WARIURo, New York, N. Y.
£01m G. WINAN'I, Concord. N. H.

TANLEY Woonwnn, Washington, D. C.

